A request to all readers I have tried to catch as many actual errors as I could , but I am sure others exist . 
If you notice an error , please let me know , identifying by chapter and paragraph where the mistake occurs . 
David Reed , haradda aol . 
If you notice an error , please let me know , identifying by chapter and paragraph where the mistake occurs . 
David Reed , haradda aol . 
The aspect of civil society has been no less affected by these changes than that of the political world . 
I must at once warn the reader against an error which would be extremely prejudicial to me . 
A multitude of opinions , feelings , and propensities are now in existence , which owe their origin to circumstances unconnected with or even contrary to the principle of equality . 
I acknowledge the existence of all these different causes , and their power , but my subject does not lead me to treat of them . 
My answer is simply , that it is because I am not an adversary of democracy , that I have sought to speak of democracy in all sincerity . 
Men will not accept truth at the hands of their enemies , and truth is seldom offered to them by their friends for this reason I have spoken it . 
To those perils therefore I have turned my chief attention , and believing that I had discovered them clearly , I have not had the cowardice to leave them untold . 
I trust that my readers will find in this Second Part that impartiality which seems to have been remarked in the former work . 
The subject I have sought to embrace is immense , for it includes the greater part of the feelings and opinions to which the new state of society has given birth . 
Such a subject is doubtless above my strength , and in treating it I have not succeeded in satisfying myself . 
A. De T. March , Chapter I Philosophical Method Among the Americans I think that in no country in the civilized world is less attention paid to philosophy than in the United States . 
America is therefore one of the countries in the world where philosophy is least studied , and where the precepts of Descartes are best applied . 
It is not only confidence in this or that man which is then destroyed , but the taste for trusting the ipse dixit of any man whatsoever . 
Everyone shuts himself up in his own breast , and affects from that point to judge the world . 
The practice which obtains amongst the Americans of fixing the standard of their judgment in themselves alone , leads them to other habits of mind . 
Thus they fall to denying what they cannot comprehend which leaves them but little faith for whatever is extraordinary , and an almost insurmountable distaste for whatever is supernatural . 
This disposition of the mind soon leads them to contemn forms , which they regard as useless and inconvenient veils placed between them and the truth . 
The Americans then have not required to extract their philosophical method from books they have found it in themselves . 
The same thing may be remarked in what has taken place in Europe . 
This same method has only been established and made popular in Europe in proportion as the condition of society has become more equal , and men have grown more like each other . 
Let us consider for a moment the connection of the periods in which this change may be traced . 
In the sixteenth century the Reformers subjected some of the dogmas of the ancient faith to the scrutiny of private judgment but they still withheld from it the judgment of all the rest . 
The philosophers of the eighteenth century , generalizing at length the same principle , undertook to submit to the private judgment of each man all the objects of his belief . 
Political laws , the condition of society , and the habits of mind which are derived from these causes , were as yet opposed to it . 
It was discovered at a time when men were beginning to equalize and assimilate their conditions . 
It could only be generally followed in ages when those conditions had at length become nearly equal , and men nearly alike . 
It must never be forgotten that religion gave birth to Anglo American society . 
In the United States religion is therefore commingled with all the habits of the nation and all the feelings of patriotism whence it derives a peculiar force . 
To this powerful reason another of no less intensity may be added in American religion has , as it were , laid down its own limits . 
Religious institutions have remained wholly distinct from political institutions , so that former laws have been easily changed whilst former belief has remained unshaken . 
In the United States Christian sects are infinitely diversified and perpetually modified but Christianity itself is a fact so irresistibly established , that no one undertakes either to attack or to defend it . 
Hence the activity of individual analysis is restrained within narrow limits , and many of the most important of human opinions are removed from the range of its influence . 
The second circumstance to which I have alluded is the following the social condition and the constitution of the Americans are democratic , but they have not had a democratic revolution . 
They arrived upon the soil they occupy in nearly the condition in which we see them at the present day and this is of very considerable importance . 
There are no revolutions which do not shake existing belief , enervate authority , and throw doubts over commonly received ideas . 
Everyone then attempts to be his own sufficient guide , and makes it his boast to form his own opinions on all subjects . 
That sort of intellectual freedom which equality may give ought , therefore , to be very carefully distinguished from the anarchy which revolution brings . 
Each of these two things must be severally considered , in order not to conceive exaggerated hopes or fears of the future . 
I shall proceed to point out this cause in the next chapter . 
Chapter II Of The Principal Source Of Belief Among Democratic Nations At different periods dogmatical belief is more or less abundant . 
If man were forced to demonstrate to himself all the truths of which he makes daily use , his task would never end . 
He would exhaust his strength in preparatory exercises , without advancing beyond them . 
This is not only necessary but desirable . 
A man who should undertake to inquire into everything for himself , could devote to each thing but little time and attention . 
His task would keep his mind in perpetual unrest , which would prevent him from penetrating to the depth of any truth , or of grappling his mind indissolubly to any conviction . 
His intellect would be at once independent and powerless . 
A principle of authority must then always occur , under all circumstances , in some part or other of the moral and intellectual world . 
Its place is variable , but a place it necessarily has . 
The independence of individual minds may be greater , or it may be less unbounded it cannot be . 
Thus the question is , not to know whether any intellectual authority exists in the ages of democracy , but simply where it resides and by what standard it is to be measured . 
The men who live at a period of social equality are not therefore easily led to place that intellectual authority to which they bow either beyond or above humanity . 
They commonly seek for the sources of truth in themselves , or in those who are like themselves . 
The contrary takes place in ages of equality . 
But his readiness to believe the multitude increases , and opinion is more than ever mistress of the world . 
Not only is common opinion the only guide which private judgment retains amongst a democratic people , but amongst such a people it possesses a power infinitely beyond what it has elsewhere . 
The same equality which renders him independent of each of his fellow citizens taken severally , exposes him alone and unprotected to the influence of the greater number . 
The fact that the political laws of the Americans are such that the majority rules the community with sovereign sway , materially increases the power which that majority naturally exercises over the mind . 
For nothing is more customary in man than to recognize superior wisdom in the person of his oppressor . 
They must be sought for in the principle of equality itself , not in the more or less popular institutions which men living under that condition may give themselves . 
In the principle of equality I very clearly discern two tendencies the one leading the mind of every man to untried thoughts , the other inclined to prohibit him from thinking at all . 
Men would not have found the means of independent life they would simply have invented a new dress for servitude . 
Such is , however , not the case with man . 
Having superficially considered a certain number of objects , and remarked their resemblance , he assigns to them a common name , sets them apart , and proceeds onwards . 
As social bodies advance in civilization , they acquire the knowledge of new facts , and they daily lay hold almost unconsciously of some particular truths . 
The more truths of this kind a man apprehends , the more general ideas is he naturally led to conceive . 
A multitude of particular facts cannot be seen separately , without at last discovering the common tie which connects them . 
Several individuals lead to the perception of the species several species to that of the genus . 
Hence the habit and the taste for general ideas will always be greatest amongst a people of ancient cultivation and extensive knowledge . 
But there are other reasons which impel men to generalize their ideas , or which restrain them from it . 
This contrast becomes much more striking still , if we fix our eyes on our own part of the world , and compare together the two most enlightened nations which inhabit it . 
Amongst the French , on the contrary , the taste for general ideas would seem to have grown to so ardent a passion , that it must be satisfied on every occasion . 
I am informed , every morning when I wake , that some general and eternal law has just been discovered , which I never heard mentioned before . 
So great a dissimilarity between two very enlightened nations surprises me . 
The state of civilization is therefore insufficient by itself to explain what suggests to the human mind the love of general ideas , or diverts it from them . 
All the truths which are applicable to himself , appear to him equally and similarly applicable to each of his fellow citizens and fellow men . 
Nothing shows the truth of this proposition more clearly than the opinions of the ancients respecting their slaves . 
All the great writers of antiquity belonged to the aristocracy of masters , or at least they saw that aristocracy established and uncontested before their eyes . 
In the ages of equality all men are independent of each other , isolated and weak . 
The movements of the multitude are not permanently guided by the will of any individuals at such times humanity seems always to advance of itself . 
This again naturally leads the human mind to conceive general ideas , and superinduces a taste for them . 
I have already shown in what way the equality of conditions leads every man to investigate truths for himself . 
It may readily be perceived that a method of this kind must insensibly beget a tendency to general ideas in the human mind . 
The English have long been a very enlightened and a very aristocratic nation their enlightened condition urged them constantly to generalize , and their aristocratic habits confined them to particularize . 
An accurate distinction must be taken between ideas of this kind . 
One of the distinguishing characteristics of a democratic period is the taste all men have at such ties for easy success and present enjoyment . 
This occurs in the pursuits of the intellect as well as in all others . 
And I know not whether they be wrong in thinking thus . 
This difference between the Americans and the French originates in several causes , but principally in the following one . 
The Americans form a democratic people , which has always itself directed public affairs . 
The French are a democratic people , who , for a long time , could only speculate on the best manner of conducting them . 
A more attentive examination will show that there is nothing contradictory in the proposition . 
Men living in democratic countries eagerly lay hold of general ideas because they have but little leisure , and because these ideas spare them the trouble of studying particulars . 
This is true but it is only to be understood to apply to those matters which are not the necessary and habitual subjects of their thoughts . 
The same thing applies to statesmen with regard to general ideas in politics . 
The people will then be compelled to enter upon its details , and the details will teach them the weak points of the theory . 
This remedy may frequently be a painful one , but its effect is certain . 
Nor can anything prevent these ideas from being the common spring from which everything else emanates . 
Fixed ideas of God and human nature are indispensable to the daily practice of men's lives but the practice of their lives prevents them from acquiring such ideas . 
The difficulty appears to me to be without a parallel . 
This is more especially true of men living in free countries . 
When the religion of a people is destroyed , doubt gets hold of the highest portions of the intellect , and half paralyzes all the rest of its powers . 
Every man accustoms himself to entertain none but confused and changing notions on the subjects most interesting to his fellow creatures and himself . 
Such a condition cannot but enervate the soul , relax the springs of the will , and prepare a people for servitude . 
Nor does it only happen , in such a case , that they allow their freedom to be wrested from them they frequently themselves surrender it . 
When there is no longer any principle of authority in religion any more than in politics , men are speedily frightened at the aspect of this unbounded independence . 
The constant agitation of all surrounding things alarms and exhausts them . 
For my own part , I doubt whether man can ever support at the same time complete religious independence and entire public freedom . 
And I am inclined to think , that if faith be wanting in him , he must serve and if he be free , he must believe . 
Perhaps , however , this great utility of religions is still more obvious amongst nations where equality of conditions prevails than amongst others . 
It tends to isolate them from each other , to concentrate every man's attention upon himself and it lays open the soul to an inordinate love of material gratification . 
The greatest advantage of religion is to inspire diametrically contrary principles . 
Nor is there any which does not impose on man some sort of duties to his kind , and thus draws him at times from the contemplation of himself . 
This occurs in religions the most false and dangerous . 
I have neither the right nor the intention of examining the supernatural means which God employs to infuse religious belief into the heart of man . 
The gospel , on the contrary , only speaks of the general relations of men to God and to each other beyond which it inculcates and imposes no point of faith . 
The preceding observation , that equality leads men to very general and very extensive notions , is principally to be understood as applied to the question of religion . 
It cannot be denied that Christianity itself has felt , to a certain extent , the influence which social and political conditions exercise on religious opinions . 
The counterpart of this state of things was exhibited after the destruction of the empire . 
The Roman world being then as it were shattered into a thousand fragments , each nation resumed its pristine individuality . 
An infinite scale of ranks very soon grew up in the bosom of these nations the different races were more sharply defined , and each nation was divided by castes into several peoples . 
But it appeared , nevertheless , to lend itself , as much as was possible , to those new tendencies to which the fractional distribution of mankind had given birth . 
Unable to subdivide the Deity , they multiplied and improperly enhanced the importance of the divine agents . 
In democratic ages , then , it is more particularly important not to allow the homage paid to secondary agents to be confounded with the worship due to the Creator alone . 
Another truth is no less clear that religions ought to assume fewer external observances in democratic periods than at any others . 
In speaking of philosophical method among the Americans , I have shown that nothing is more repugnant to the human mind in an age of equality than the idea of subjection to forms . 
a In all religions there are some ceremonies which are inherent in the substance of the faith itself , and in these nothing should , on any account , be changed . 
This is especially the case with Roman Catholicism , in which the doctrine and the form are frequently so closely united as to form one point of belief . 
To this I reply again , that the principal opinions which constitute belief , and which theologians call articles of faith , must be very carefully distinguished from the accessories connected with them . 
The fixity of external and secondary things can only afford a chance of duration when civil society is itself fixed under any other circumstances I hold it to be perilous . 
The taste for well being is the prominent and indelible feature of democratic ages . 
They will not succeed in curing men of the love of riches but they may still persuade men to enrich themselves by none but honest means . 
This brings me to a final consideration , which comprises , as it were , all the others . 
This is not less true of a democratic people , ruled by a despot , than in a republic . 
I showed in my former volumes how the American clergy stand aloof from secular affairs . 
This is the most obvious , but it is not the only , example of their self restraint . 
In America religion is a distinct sphere , in which the priest is sovereign , but out of which he takes care never to go . 
Although the Christians of America are divided into a multitude of sects , they all look upon their religion in the same light . 
This applies to Roman Catholicism as well as to the other forms of belief . 
Nowhere is that doctrine of the Church , which prohibits the worship reserved to God alone from being offered to the saints , more clearly inculcated or more generally followed . 
Yet the Roman Catholics of America are very submissive and very sincere . 
Another remark is applicable to the clergy of every communion . 
Far from attempting to show that these things are distinct and contrary to one another , they study rather to find out on what point they are most nearly and closely connected . 
All the American clergy know and respect the intellectual supremacy exercised by the majority they never sustain any but necessary conflicts with it . 
They endeavor to amend their contemporaries , but they do not quit fellowship with them . 
the country in which the Roman Catholic religion makes most progress . 
At first sight this is surprising . 
Religious powers not radiating from a common centre are naturally repugnant to their minds and they almost as readily conceive that there should be no religion , as that there should be several . 
At the present time , more than in any preceding one , Roman Catholics are seen to lapse into infidelity , and Protestants to be converted to Roman Catholicism . 
If the Roman Catholic faith be considered within the pale of the church , it would seem to be losing ground without that pale , to be gaining it . 
Nor is this circumstance difficult of explanation . 
Many of the doctrines and the practices of the Romish Church astonish them but they feel a secret admiration for its discipline , and its great unity attracts them . 
One of the most ordinary weaknesses of the human intellect is to seek to reconcile contrary principles , and to purchase peace at the expense of logic . 
It cannot be denied that pantheism has made great progress in our age . 
The writings of a part of Europe bear visible marks of it the Germans introduce it into philosophy , and the French into literature . 
Most of the works of imagination published in France contain some opinions or some tinge caught from pantheistical doctrines , or they disclose some tendency to such doctrines in their authors . 
This appears to me not only to proceed from an accidental , but from a permanent cause . 
At such times the human mind seeks to embrace a multitude of different objects at once and it constantly strives to succeed in connecting a variety of consequences with a single cause . 
All their habits of thought prepare them to conceive it , and predispose them to adopt it . 
It naturally attracts and fixes their imagination it fosters the pride , whilst it soothes the indolence , of their minds . 
Amongst the different systems by whose aid philosophy endeavors to explain the universe , I believe pantheism to be one of those most fitted to seduce the human mind in democratic ages . 
Against it all who abide in their attachment to the true greatness of man should struggle and combine . 
Although man has many points of resemblance with the brute creation , one characteristic is peculiar to himself he improves they are incapable of improvement . 
Mankind could not fail to discover this difference from its earliest period . 
The idea of perfectibility is therefore as old as the world equality did not give birth to it , although it has imparted to it a novel character . 
His reverses teach him that none may hope to have discovered absolute good his success stimulates him to the never ending pursuit of it . 
Aristocratic nations are naturally too apt to narrow the scope of human perfectibility democratic nations to expand it beyond compass . 
This state of things is without a parallel in the history of the world . 
In America , then , every one finds facilities , unknown elsewhere , for making or increasing his fortune . 
This intellectual craving , when once felt , would very soon have been satisfied . 
I cannot consent to separate America from Europe , in spite of the ocean which intervenes . 
The position of the Americans is therefore quite exceptional , and it may be believed that no democratic people will ever be placed in a similar one . 
Let us cease then to view all democratic nations under the mask of the American people , and let us attempt to survey them at length with their own proper features . 
Not only would a democratic people of this kind show neither aptitude nor taste for science , literature , or art , but it would probably never arrive at the possession of them . 
The law of descent would of itself provide for the destruction of fortunes at each succeeding generation and new fortunes would be acquired by none . 
Between these two members of the community complete and invincible equality would soon be established . 
A sudden heaviness overpowers me , and I grope through the surrounding darkness , to find the aperture which will restore me to daylight and the air . 
They all therefore conceive the idea of increasing it if they are free , they all attempt it , but all do not succeed in the same manner . 
The legislature , it is true , no longer grants privileges , but they are bestowed by nature . 
As natural inequality is very great , fortunes become unequal as soon as every man exerts all his faculties to get rich . 
The law of descent prevents the establishment of wealthy families but it does not prevent the existence of wealthy individuals . 
This would have been a method of escaping from that complete and eternal equality which seems to threaten democratic society . 
Natural inequality will very soon make way for itself , and wealth will spontaneously pass into the hands of the most capable . 
Free and democratic communities , then , will always contain a considerable number of people enjoying opulence or competency . 
Physical wants confine it to the earth but , as soon as the tie is loosened , it will unbend itself again . 
Whatever tends to invigorate , to extend , or to adorn the mind , instantly rises to great value . 
In free and enlightened democratic ages , there is nothing to separate men from each other or to retain them in their peculiar sphere they rise or sink with extreme rapidity . 
All classes live in perpetual intercourse from their great proximity to each other . 
The restless ambition which equality begets instantly takes this direction as it does all others . 
The number of those who cultivate science , letters , and the arts , becomes immense . 
The intellectual world starts into prodigious activity everyone endeavors to open for himself a path there , and to draw the eyes of the public after him . 
Something analogous occurs to what happens in society in the United States , politically considered . 
What is done is often imperfect , but the attempts are innumerable and , although the results of individual effort are commonly very small , the total amount is always very large . 
Their effects , thus circumscribed , are still exceedingly great and I trust I may be pardoned if I pause for a moment to survey them . 
We had occasion , in speaking of the philosophical method of the American people , to make several remarks which must here be turned to account . 
These general tendencies are principally discernible in the peculiar subject of this chapter . 
Those who cultivate the sciences amongst a democratic people are always afraid of losing their way in visionary speculation . 
They mistrust systems they adhere closely to facts and the study of facts with their own senses . 
Scientific pursuits then follow a freer and a safer course , but a less lofty one . 
The mind may , as it appears to me , divide science into three parts . 
The first comprises the most theoretical principles , and those more abstract notions whose application is either unknown or very remote . 
The second is composed of those general truths which still belong to pure theory , but lead , nevertheless , by a straight and short road to practical results . 
Methods of application and means of execution make up the third . 
In America the purely practical part of science is admirably understood , and careful attention is paid to the theoretical portion which is immediately requisite to application . 
On this head the Americans always display a clear , free , original , and inventive power of mind . 
But hardly anyone in the United States devotes himself to the essentially theoretical and abstract portion of human knowledge . 
In this respect the Americans carry to excess a tendency which is , I think , discernible , though in a less degree , amongst all democratic nations . 
Everyone is actively in motion some in quest of power , others of gain . 
When a violent revolution occurs amongst a highly civilized people , it cannot fail to give a sudden impulse to their feelings and their opinions . 
What happened at that period was a special incident , and it would be unwise to regard it as the test of a general principle . 
Great revolutions are not more common amongst democratic nations than amongst others I am even inclined to believe that they are less so . 
But there prevails amongst those populations a small distressing motion a sort of incessant jostling of men which annoys and disturbs the mind , without exciting or elevating it . 
Men who live in democratic communities not only seldom indulge in meditation , but they naturally entertain very little esteem for it . 
The man of action is frequently obliged to content himself with the best he can get , because he would never accomplish his purpose if he chose to carry every detail to perfection . 
There are several methods of studying the sciences . 
A desire to utilize knowledge is one thing the pure desire to know is another . 
This ardent love it is this proud , disinterested love of what is true which raises men to the abstract sources of truth , to draw their mother knowledge thence . 
The future will prove whether these passions , at once so rare and so productive , come into being and into growth as easily in the midst of democratic as in aristocratic communities . 
For myself , I confess that I am slow to believe it . 
It loves to invent for him noble pleasures , to carve out splendid objects for his ambition . 
Aristocracies often commit very tyrannical and very inhuman actions but they rarely entertain grovelling thoughts and they show a kind of haughty contempt of little pleasures , even whilst they indulge in them . 
The effect is greatly to raise the general pitch of society . 
In aristocratic ages vast ideas are commonly entertained of the dignity , the power , and the greatness of man . 
These opinions exert their influence on those who cultivate the sciences , as well as on the rest of the community . 
They facilitate the natural impulse of the mind to the highest regions of thought , and they naturally prepare it to conceive a sublime nay , almost a divine love of truth . 
Men of science at such periods are consequently carried away by theory and it even happens that they frequently conceive an inconsiderate contempt for the practical part of learning . 
Archimedes , says Plutarch , was of so lofty a spirit , that he never condescended to write any treatise on the manner of constructing all these engines of offence and defence . 
Such is the aristocratic aim of science in democratic nations it cannot be the same . 
The greater part of the men who constitute these nations are extremely eager in the pursuit of actual and physical gratification . 
It is chiefly from these motives that a democratic people addicts itself to scientific pursuits that it understands , and that it respects them . 
In aristocratic ages , science is more particularly called upon to furnish gratification to the mind in democracies , to the body . 
For in democracies the working class takes a part in public affairs and public honors , as well as pecuniary remuneration , may be awarded to those who deserve them . 
In vain will some innate propensity raise the mind towards the loftier spheres of the intellect interest draws it down to the middle zone . 
There it may develop all its energy and restless activity , there it may engender all its wonders . 
These very Americans , who have not discovered one of the general laws of mechanics , have introduced into navigation an engine which changes the aspect of the world . 
I believe , moreover , in the high calling of scientific minds . 
Nor is it credible that , from amongst so great a multitude no speculative genius should from time to time arise , inflamed by the love of truth alone . 
Such a one , we may be sure , would dive into the deepest mysteries of nature , whatever be the spirit of his country or his age . 
He requires no assistance in his course enough that he be not checked in it . 
This tendency is natural and inevitable it is curious to be acquainted with it , and it may be necessary to point it out . 
Because the civilization of ancient Rome perished in consequence of the invasion of the barbarians , we are perhaps too apt to think that civilization cannot perish in any other manner . 
If the light by which we are guided is ever extinguished , it will dwindle by degrees , and expire of itself . 
By dint of close adherence to mere applications , principles would be lost sight of and when the principles were wholly forgotten , the methods derived from them would be ill pursued . 
New methods could no longer be invented , and men would continue to apply , without intelligence , and without art , scientific processes no longer understood . 
At a later period they discovered some traces of the higher branches of science which were lost . 
The nation was absorbed in productive industry the greater part of its scientific processes had been preserved , but science itself no longer existed there . 
This served to explain the strangely motionless state in which they found the minds of this people . 
The Chinese , in following the track of their forefathers , had forgotten the reasons by which the latter had been guided . 
They still used the formula , without asking for its meaning they retained the instrument , but they no longer possessed the art of altering or renewing it . 
The Chinese , then , had lost the power of change for them to improve was impossible . 
The source of human knowledge was all but dry and though the stream still ran on , it could neither swell its waters nor alter its channel . 
Notwithstanding this , China had subsisted peaceably for centuries . 
The invaders who had conquered the country assumed the manners of the inhabitants , and order prevailed there . 
A sort of physical prosperity was everywhere discernible revolutions were rare , and war was , so to speak , unknown . 
Democratic nations , amongst which all these things exist , will therefore cultivate the arts which serve to render life easy , in preference to those whose object is to adorn it . 
They will habitually prefer the useful to the beautiful , and they will require that the beautiful should be useful . 
But I propose to go further and after having pointed out this first feature , to sketch several others . 
In a class or guild of this kind , each artisan has not only his fortune to make , but his reputation to preserve . 
In aristocratic ages , the object of the arts is therefore to manufacture as well as possible not with the greatest despatch , or at the lowest rate . 
The will of the customer is then his only limit . 
But at the same time a corresponding revolution takes place in the customer also . 
Necessity , public opinion , or moderate desires exclude all others from the enjoyment of them . 
The men of whom it is composed naturally derive from their superior and hereditary position a taste for what is extremely well made and lasting . 
This affects the general way of thinking of the nation in relation to the arts . 
It often occurs , among such a people , that even the peasant will rather go without the object he covets , than procure it in a state of imperfection . 
In aristocracies , then , the handicraftsmen work for only a limited number of very fastidious customers the profit they hope to make depends principally on the perfection of their workmanship . 
Such is no longer the case when , all privileges being abolished , ranks are intermingled , and men are forever rising or sinking upon the ladder of society . 
Amongst a democratic people a number of citizens always exist whose patrimony is divided and decreasing . 
Such men eager to find some short cut to these gratifications , already almost within their reach . 
But there are only two ways of lowering the price of commodities . 
When none but the wealthy had watches , they were almost all very good ones few are now made which are worth much , but everybody has one in his pocket . 
Not that in democracies the arts are incapable of producing very commendable works , if such be required . 
This may occasionally be the case , if customers appear who are ready to pay for time and trouble . 
In this rivalry of every kind of industry in the midst of this immense competition and these countless experiments , some excellent workmen are formed who reach the utmost limits of their craft . 
In aristocracies , on the contrary , workmen always do all they can and when they stop , it is because they have reached the limit of their attainments . 
In the confusion of all ranks everyone hopes to appear what he is not , and makes great exertions to succeed in this object . 
This sentiment indeed , which is but too natural to the heart of man , does not originate in the democratic principle but that principle applies it to material objects . 
To mimic virtue is of every age but the hypocrisy of luxury belongs more particularly to the ages of democracy . 
To satisfy these new cravings of human vanity the arts have recourse to every species of imposture and these devices sometimes go so far as to defeat their own purpose . 
This leads me to speak of those arts which are called the fine arts , by way of distinction . 
No longer able to soar to what is great , they cultivate what is pretty and elegant and appearance is more attended to than reality . 
In aristocracies a few great pictures are produced in democratic countries , a vast number of insignificant ones . 
In the former , statues are raised of bronze in the latter , they are modelled in plaster . 
All the edifices which I had admired the night before were of the same kind . 
The social condition and the institutions of democracy impart , moreover , certain peculiar tendencies to all the imitative arts , which it is easy to point out . 
I doubt whether Raphael studied the minutest intricacies of the mechanism of the human body as thoroughly as the draughtsmen of our own time . 
He did not attach the same importance to rigorous accuracy on this point as they do , because he aspired to surpass nature . 
He sought to make of man something which should be superior to man , and to embellish beauty's self . 
David and his scholars were , on the contrary , as good anatomists as they were good painters . 
They wonderfully depicted the models which they had before their eyes , but they rarely imagined anything beyond them they followed nature with fidelity whilst Raphael sought for something better than nature . 
They have left us an exact portraiture of man but he discloses in his works a glimpse of the Divinity . 
This remark as to the manner of treating a subject is no less applicable to the choice of it . 
The painters of the Middle Ages generally sought far above themselves , and away from their own time , for mighty subjects , which left to their imagination an unbounded range . 
I now hasten to point out the exception to this rule . 
In a democratic community individuals are very powerless but the State which represents them all , and contains them all in its grasp , is very powerful . 
Nowhere do citizens appear so insignificant as in a democratic nation nowhere does the nation itself appear greater , or does the mind more easily take in a wide general survey of it . 
In democratic communities the imagination is compressed when men consider themselves it expands indefinitely when they think of the State . 
Hence it is that the same men who live on a small scale in narrow dwellings , frequently aspire to gigantic splendor in the erection of their public monuments . 
They have already rooted up trees for ten miles round , lest they should interfere with the future citizens of this imaginary metropolis . 
They have erected a magnificent palace for Congress in the centre of the city , and have given it the pompous name of the Capitol . 
The several States of the Union are every day planning and erecting for themselves prodigious undertakings , which would astonish the engineers of the great European nations . 
A few scattered remains of enormous buildings can therefore teach us nothing of the social condition and the institutions of the people by whom they were raised . 
But this does not lead to the conclusion that the people was very happy , very enlightened , or even very strong . 
The Spaniards found the City of Mexico full of magnificent temples and vast palaces but that did not prevent Cortes from conquering the Mexican Empire with foot soldiers and sixteen horses . 
If they had invented the steam engine , perhaps they would not have extended to the extremities of their empire those long artificial roads which are called Roman roads . 
These things are at once the splendid memorials of their ignorance and of their greatness . 
He will first meet with a number of elementary treatises , destined to teach the rudiments of human knowledge . 
Most of these books are written in Europe the Americans reprint them , adapting them to their own country . 
Next comes an enormous quantity of religious works , Bibles , sermons , edifying anecdotes , controversial divinity , and reports of charitable societies lastly , appears the long catalogue of political pamphlets . 
In America , parties do not write books to combat each others' opinions , but pamphlets which are circulated for a day with incredible rapidity , and then expire . 
But England supplies these readers with the larger portion of the books which they require . 
Almost all important English books are republished in the United States . 
The literary genius of Great Britain still darts its rays into the recesses of the forests of the New World . 
There is hardly a pioneer's hut which does not contain a few odd volumes of Shakespeare . 
I remember that I read the feudal play of Henry V for the first time in a loghouse . 
Not only do the Americans constantly draw upon the treasures of English literature , but it may be said with truth that they find the literature of England growing on their own soil . 
The larger part of that small number of men in the United States who are engaged in the composition of literary works are English in substance , and still more so in form . 
Thus they transport into the midst of democracy the ideas and literary fashions which are current amongst the aristocratic nation they have taken for their model . 
They paint with colors borrowed from foreign manners and as they hardly ever represent the country they were born in as it really is , they are seldom popular there . 
The inhabitants of the United States have then at present , properly speaking , no literature . 
The only authors whom I acknowledge as American are the journalists . 
They indeed are not great writers , but they speak the language of their countrymen , and make themselves heard by them . 
They amuse the mind , but they do not act upon the manners of the people . 
Nor is it impossible to trace this character beforehand . 
I suppose an aristocratic people amongst whom letters are cultivated the labors of the mind , as well as the affairs of state , are conducted by a ruling class in society . 
The literary as well as the political career is almost entirely confined to this class , or to those nearest to it in rank . 
These premises suffice to give me a key to all the rest . 
They had rather be amused than intensely excited they wish to be interested , but not to be carried away . 
Style will be thought of almost as much importance as thought and the form will be no less considered than the matter the diction will be polished , measured , and uniform . 
The tone of the mind will be always dignified , seldom very animated and writers will care more to perfect what they produce than to multiply their productions . 
Such are the natural perils of literature amongst aristocracies . 
Every aristocracy which keeps itself entirely aloof from the people becomes impotent a fact which is as true in literature as it is in politics . 
a a All this is especially true of the aristocratic countries which have been long and peacefully subject to a monarchical government . 
When liberty prevails in an aristocracy , the higher ranks are constantly obliged to make use of the lower classes and when they use , they approach them . 
This frequently introduces something of a democratic spirit into an aristocratic community . 
There springs up , moreover , in a privileged body , governing with energy and an habitually bold policy , a taste for stir and excitement which must infallibly affect all literary performances . 
Ranks are there intermingled and confounded knowledge and power are both infinitely subdivided , and , if I may use the expression , scattered on every side . 
Here then is a motley multitude , whose intellectual wants are to be supplied . 
It is , however , from the bosom of this heterogeneous and agitated mass that authors spring and from the same source their profits and their fame are distributed . 
Amongst such nations , then , literature will not easily be subjected to strict rules , and it is impossible that any such rules should ever be permanent . 
These pleasures , therefore , do not constitute the principal charm of their lives but they are considered as a transient and necessary recreation amidst the serious labors of life . 
Such man can never acquire a sufficiently intimate knowledge of the art of literature to appreciate its more delicate beauties and the minor shades of expression must escape them . 
As the time they can devote to letters is very short , they seek to make the best use of the whole of it . 
They prefer books which may be easily procured , quickly read , and which require no learned researches to be understood . 
They ask for beauties , self proffered and easily enjoyed above all , they must have what is unexpected and new . 
Style will frequently be fantastic , incorrect , overburdened , and loose almost always vehement and bold . 
Authors will aim at rapidity of execution , more than at perfection of detail . 
The object of authors will be to astonish rather than to please , and to stir the passions more than to charm the taste . 
Such epochs are transient , but very brilliant they are fertile without exuberance , and animated without confusion . 
The French literature of the eighteenth century may serve as an example . 
I should say more than I mean if I were to assert that the literature of a nation is always subordinate to its social condition and its political constitution . 
I am aware that , independently of these causes , there are several others which confer certain characteristics on literary productions but these appear to me to be the chief . 
Chapter XIV The Trade Of Literature Democracy not only infuses a taste for letters among the trading classes , but introduces a trading spirit into literature . 
In aristocracies , readers are fastidious and few in number in democracies , they are far more numerous and far less difficult to please . 
For this purpose he need not be admired it is enough that he is liked . 
The ever increasing crowd of readers , and their continual craving for something new , insure the sale of books which nobody much esteems . 
In democratic periods the public frequently treat authors as kings do their courtiers they enrich , and they despise them . 
In Athens , all the citizens took part in public affairs but there were only , citizens to more than , inhabitants . 
All the rest were slaves , and discharged the greater part of those duties which belong at the present day to the lower or even to the middle classes . 
Athens , then , with her universal suffrage , was after all merely an aristocratic republic in which all the nobles had an equal right to the government . 
The struggle between the patricians and plebeians of Rome must be considered in the same light it was simply an intestine feud between the elder and younger branches of the same family . 
All the citizens belonged , in fact , to the aristocracy , and partook of its character . 
It is moreover to be remarked , that amongst the ancients books were always scarce and dear and that very great difficulties impeded their publication and circulation . 
These circumstances concentrated literary tastes and habits amongst a small number of men , who formed a small literary aristocracy out of the choicer spirits of the great political aristocracy . 
Accordingly nothing goes to prove that literature was ever treated as a trade amongst the Greeks and Romans . 
Nothing in their works seems to be done hastily or at random every line is written for the eye of the connoisseur , and is shaped after some conception of ideal beauty . 
It is important that this point should be clearly understood . 
A particular study may be useful to the literature of a people , without being appropriate to its social and political wants . 
All who aspire to literary excellence in democratic nations , ought frequently to refresh themselves at the springs of ancient literature there is no more wholesome course for the mind . 
Not that I hold the literary productions of the ancients to be irreproachable but I think that they have some especial merits , admirably calculated to counterbalance our peculiar defects . 
They are a prop on the side on which we are in most danger of falling . 
American authors may truly be said to live more in England than in their own country since they constantly study the English writers , and take them every day for their models . 
But such is not the case with the bulk of the population , which is more immediately subjected to the peculiar causes acting upon the United States . 
In aristocracies , language must naturally partake of that state of repose in which everything remains . 
All the nations of Europe successively exhibited the same change . 
Milton alone introduced more than six hundred words into the English language , almost all derived from the Latin , the Greek , or the Hebrew . 
The constant agitation which prevails in a democratic community tends unceasingly , on the contrary , to change the character of the language , as it does the aspect of affairs . 
The consequence is , that many words must fall into desuetude , and others must be brought into use . 
Democratic nations love change for its own sake and this is seen in their language as much as in their politics . 
Even when they do not need to change words , they sometimes feel a wish to transform them . 
The genius of a democratic people is not only shown by the great number of words they bring into use , but also by the nature of the ideas these new words represent . 
Amongst such a people the majority lays down the law in language as well as in everything else its prevailing spirit is as manifest in that as in other respects . 
But the majority is more engaged in business than in study in political and commercial interests than in philosophical speculation or literary pursuits . 
In these departments the language will constantly spread , whilst on the other hand it will gradually lose ground in metaphysics and theology . 
If they have sometimes recourse to learned etymologies , vanity will induce them to search at the roots of the dead languages but erudition does not naturally furnish them with its resources . 
The most ignorant , it sometimes happens , will use them most . 
The eminently democratic desire to get above their own sphere will often lead them to seek to dignify a vulgar profession by a Greek or Latin name . 
The lower the calling is , and the more remote from learning , the more pompous and erudite is its appellation . 
Thus the French rope dancers have transformed themselves into acrobates and funambules . 
But it is principally upon their own languages that democratic nations attempt to perpetrate innovations . 
Many expressions which originally belonged to the technical language of a profession or a party , are thus drawn into general circulation . 
The most common expedient employed by democratic nations to make an innovation in language consists in giving some unwonted meaning to an expression already in use . 
When a democratic people doubles the meaning of a word in this way , they sometimes render the signification which it retains as ambiguous as that which it acquires . 
An author begins by a slight deflection of a known expression from its primitive meaning , and he adapts it , thus modified , as well as he can to his subject . 
This is a deplorable consequence of democracy . 
The principle of equality necessarily introduces several other changes into language . 
In these ages each nation is divided into a certain number of classes , which see but little of each other , and do not intermingle . 
The deeper the divisions , and the more impassable the barriers of society become , the more must this be the case . 
Those which are unsuitable to the greater number perish the remainder form a common store , whence everyone chooses pretty nearly at random . 
The influence of this revolution in social conditions is as much felt in style as it is in phraseology . 
Not only does everyone use the same words , but a habit springs up of using them without discrimination . 
The rules which style had set up are almost abolished the line ceases to be drawn between expressions which seem by their very nature vulgar , and other which appear to be refined . 
No intermixture of ranks will ever efface these differences . 
But the principle of equality cannot fail to root out whatever is merely conventional and arbitrary in the forms of thought . 
I shall not quit this topic without touching on a feature of democratic languages , which is perhaps more characteristic of them than any other . 
It has already been shown that democratic nations have a taste , and sometimes a passion , for general ideas , and that this arises from their peculiar merits and defects . 
This liking for general ideas is displayed in democratic languages by the continual use of generic terms or abstract expressions , and by the manner in which they are employed . 
This is the great merit and the great imperfection of these languages . 
Democratic writers are perpetually coining words of this kind , in which they sublimate into further abstraction the abstract terms of the language . 
Nay , more , to render their mode of speech more succinct , they personify the subject of these abstract terms , and make it act like a real entity . 
Thus they would say in French , La force des choses veut que les capacites gouvernent . 
I cannot better illustrate what I mean than by my own example . 
But with regard to language , democratic nations prefer obscurity to labor . 
I know not indeed whether this loose style has not some secret charm for those who speak and write amongst these nations . 
Men living in democratic countries are , then , apt to entertain unsettled ideas , and they require loose expressions to convey them . 
As they never know whether the idea they express to day will be appropriate to the new position they may occupy to morrow , they naturally acquire a liking for abstract terms . 
An abstract term is like a box with a false bottom you may put in it what ideas you please , and take them out again without being observed . 
Amongst all nations , generic and abstract terms form the basis of language . 
Chapter XVII Of Some Of The Sources Of Poetry Amongst Democratic Nations Various different significations have been given to the word poetry . 
In my opinion , poetry is the search and the delineation of the ideal . 
Thus the object of poetry is not to represent what is true , but to adorn it , and to present to the mind some loftier imagery . 
Verse , regarded as the ideal beauty of language , may be eminently poetical but verse does not , of itself , constitute poetry . 
In aristocratic nations it sometimes happens that the body goes on to act as it were spontaneously , whilst the higher faculties are bound and burdened by repose . 
Amongst these nations the people will very often display poetic tastes , and sometimes allow their fancy to range beyond and above what surrounds them . 
The main stress of the faculties is to this point . 
The imagination is not extinct but its chief function is to devise what may be useful , and to represent what is real . 
The principle of equality not only diverts men from the description of ideal beauty it also diminishes the number of objects to be described . 
Aristocracy , by maintaining society in a fixed position , is favorable to the solidity and duration of positive religions , as well as to the stability of political institutions . 
It not only keeps the human mind within a certain sphere of belief , but it predisposes the mind to adopt one faith rather than another . 
An aristocratic people will always be prone to place intermediate powers between God and man . 
In this respect it may be said that the aristocratic element is favorable to poetry . 
In democratic ages it sometimes happens , on the contrary , that men are as much afloat in matters of belief as they are in their laws . 
Scepticism then draws the imagination of poets back to earth , and confines them to the real and visible world . 
Aristocracy naturally leads the human mind to the contemplation of the past , and fixes it there . 
Democracy , on the contrary , gives men a sort of instinctive distaste for what is ancient . 
After having deprived poetry of the past , the principle of equality robs it in part of the present . 
The crowd never sees them very closely , or does not watch them in minute details and little is needed to make the description of such men poetical . 
In democratic communities , where men are all insignificant and very much alike , each man instantly sees all his fellows when he surveys himself . 
Thus the principle of equality in proportion as it has established itself in the world , has dried up most of the old springs of poetry . 
Let us now attempt to show what new ones it may disclose . 
As they lost sight of gods and heroes , they set themselves to describe streams and mountains . 
Thence originated in the last century , that kind of poetry which has been called , by way of distinction , the descriptive . 
I am persuaded that in the end democracy diverts the imagination from all that is external to man , and fixes it on man alone . 
Democratic nations may amuse themselves for a while with considering the productions of nature but they are only excited in reality by a survey of themselves . 
I have shown how the ideas of progression and of the indefinite perfectibility of the human race belong to democratic ages . 
Democratic nations care but little for what has been , but they are haunted by visions of what will be in this direction their unbounded imagination grows and dilates beyond all measure . 
Here then is the wildest range open to the genius of poets , which allows them to remove their performances to a sufficient distance from the eye . 
Democracy shuts the past against the poet , but opens the future before him . 
Democractic nations have a clearer perception than any others of their own aspect and an aspect so imposing is admirably fitted to the delineation of the ideal . 
I readily admit that the Americans have no poets I cannot allow that they have no poetic ideas . 
Their eyes are fixed upon another sight the American people views its own march across these wilds drying swamps , turning the course of rivers , peopling solitudes , and subduing nature . 
Nothing conceivable is so petty , so insipid , so crowded with paltry interests , in one word so anti poetic , as the life of a man in the United States . 
But amongst the thoughts which it suggests there is always one which is full of poetry , and that is the hidden nerve which gives vigor to the frame . 
In aristocratic ages each people , as well as each individual , is prone to stand separate and aloof from all others . 
This displays the aspect of mankind for the first time in the broadest light . 
All that belongs to the existence of the human race taken as a whole , to its vicissitudes and to its future , becomes an abundant mine of poetry . 
This consideration may be taken as another prolific source of poetry which is opened in democratic ages . 
It may be foreseen in the like manner that poets living in democratic ages will prefer the delineation of passions and ideas to that of persons and achievements . 
The language , the dress , and the daily actions of men in democracies are repugnant to ideal conceptions . 
I find that object in myself . 
If man were wholly ignorant of himself , he would have no poetry in him for it is impossible to describe what the mind does not conceive . 
If man clearly discerned his own nature , his imagination would remain idle , and would have nothing to add to the picture . 
Amongst a democratic people poetry will not be fed with legendary lays or the memorials of old traditions . 
All these resources fail him but Man remains , and the poet needs no more . 
Experience may confirm this assertion , if we consider the productions of the greatest poets who have appeared since the world has been turned to democracy . 
Such are the poems of democracy . 
The principle of equality does not then destroy all the subjects of poetry it renders them less numerous , but more vast . 
The English are more rarely given to a similar failing . 
The cause of this may be pointed out without much difficulty . 
In democratic communities each citizen is habitually engaged in the contemplation of a very puny object , namely himself . 
If he ever raises his looks higher , he then perceives nothing but the immense form of society at large , or the still more imposing aspect of mankind . 
His ideas are all either extremely minute and clear , or extremely general and vague what lies between is an open void . 
This appears to me sufficiently to explain why men in democracies , whose concerns are in general so paltry , call upon their poets for conceptions so vast and descriptions so unlimited . 
The author and the public at once vitiate one another . 
We have just seen that amongst democratic nations , the sources of poetry are grand , but not abundant . 
They are soon exhausted and poets , not finding the elements of the ideal in what is real and true , abandon them entirely and create monsters . 
The spectator of a dramatic piece is , to a certain extent , taken by surprise by the impression it conveys . 
He has no time to refer to his memory , or to consult those more able to judge than himself . 
It does not occur to him to resist the new literary tendencies which begin to be felt by him he yields to them before he knows what they are . 
Authors are very prompt in discovering which way the taste of the public is thus secretly inclined . 
They shape their productions accordingly and the literature of the stage , after having served to indicate the approaching literary revolution , speedily completes its accomplishment . 
If you would judge beforehand of the literature of a people which is lapsing into democracy , study its dramatic productions . 
The literature of the stage , moreover , even amongst aristocratic nations , constitutes the most democratic part of their literature . 
No kind of literary gratification is so much within the reach of the multitude as that which is derived from theatrical representations . 
Neither preparation nor study is required to enjoy them they lay hold on you in the midst of your prejudices and your ignorance . 
When the yet untutored love of the pleasures of the mind begins to affect a class of the community , it instantly draws them to the stage . 
The theatres of aristocratic nations have always been filled with spectators not belonging to the aristocracy . 
The pit has frequently made laws for the boxes . 
In written productions , the literary canons of aristocracy will be gently , gradually , and , so to speak , legally modified at the theatre they will be riotously overthrown . 
The drama brings out most of the good qualities , and almost all the defects , inherent in democratic literature . 
We may be sure that he would neither have accused himself of the offence , nor defended himself from censure , if he had written for our contemporaries . 
A fact of this kind not only illustrates the state of literature at the time when it occurred , but also that of society itself . 
The refined tastes and the arrogant bearing of an aristocracy will rarely fail to lead it , when it manages the stage , to make a kind of selection in human nature . 
Some of the conditions of society claim its chief interest and the scenes which delineate their manners are preferred upon the stage . 
Certain virtues , and even certain vices , are thought more particularly to deserve to figure there and they are applauded whilst all others are excluded . 
Upon the stage , as well as elsewhere , an aristocratic audience will only meet personages of quality , and share the emotions of kings . 
The same thing applies to style an aristocracy is apt to impose upon dramatic authors certain modes of expression which give the key in which everything is to be delivered . 
The drama becomes more striking , more common , and more true . 
Sometimes , however , those who write for the stage in democracies also transgress the bounds of human nature but it is on a different side from their predecessors . 
By seeking to represent in minute detail the little singularities of the moment and the peculiar characteristics of certain personages , they forget to portray the general features of the race . 
When the democratic classes rule the stage , they introduce as much license in the manner of treating subjects as in the choice of them . 
A multitude composed of elements so different , and scattered in so many different places , cannot acknowledge the same rules or submit to the same laws . 
No concurrence is possible amongst judges so numerous , who know not when they may meet again and therefore each pronounces his own sentence on the piece . 
The drama also displays in an especial manner the truth of what I have said before in speaking more generally of style and art in democratic literature . 
The value which was set upon the forms of language at that period , and the paltry strife about words with which dramatic authors were assailed , are no less surprising . 
For , after all , the principal object of a dramatic piece is to be performed , and its chief merit is to affect the audience . 
But the audience and the readers in that age were the same on quitting the theatre they called up the author for judgment to their own firesides . 
In democracies , dramatic pieces are listened to , but not read . 
Most of those who frequent the amusements of the stage do not go there to seek the pleasures of the mind , but the keen emotions of the heart . 
They ask no more of fiction , and immediately return to real life . 
Accuracy of style is therefore less required , because the attentive observance of its rules is less perceptible on the stage . 
As for the probability of the plot , it is incompatible with perpetual novelty , surprise , and rapidity of invention . 
It is therefore neglected , and the public excuses the neglect . 
Although playgoers and plays have prodigiously increased in the United States in the last forty years , the population indulges in this kind of amusement with the greatest reserve . 
This is attributable to peculiar causes , which the reader is already acquainted with , and of which a few words will suffice to remind him . 
The Puritans who founded the American republics were not only enemies to amusements , but they professed an especial abhorrence for the stage . 
They considered it as an abominable pastime and as long as their principles prevailed with undivided sway , scenic performances were wholly unknown amongst them . 
These opinions of the first fathers of the colony have left very deep marks on the minds of their descendants . 
The extreme regularity of habits and the great strictness of manners which are observable in the United States , have as yet opposed additional obstacles to the growth of dramatic art . 
There are no dramatic subjects in a country which has witnessed no great political catastrophes , and in which love invariably leads by a straight and easy road to matrimony . 
People who spend every day in the week in making money , and the Sunday in going to church , have nothing to invite the muse of Comedy . 
A single fact suffices to show that the stage is not very popular in the United States . 
The Americans , whose laws allow of the utmost freedom and even license of language in all other respects , have nevertheless subjected their dramatic authors to a sort of censorship . 
Theatrical performances can only take place by permission of the municipal authorities . 
No portion of literature is connected by closer or more numerous ties with the present condition of society than the drama . 
The drama of one period can never be suited to the following age , if in the interval an important revolution has changed the manners and the laws of the nation . 
The great authors of a preceding age may be read but pieces written for a different public will not be followed . 
The dramatic authors of the past live only in books . 
They trace out the smallest causes with sagacity , and frequently leave the greatest unperceived . 
Historians who live in democratic ages exhibit precisely opposite characteristics . 
These contrary tendencies explain each other . 
When the historian of aristocratic ages surveys the theatre of the world , he at once perceives a very small number of prominent actors , who manage the whole piece . 
This naturally prompts the mind to search for that general reason which operates upon so many men's faculties at the same time , and turns them simultaneously in the same direction . 
M. de Lafayette says somewhere in his Memoirs that the exaggerated system of general causes affords surprising consolations to second rate statesmen . 
For myself , I am of opinion that at all times one great portion of the events of this world are attributable to general facts , and another to special influences . 
These two kinds of cause are always in operation their proportion only varies . 
General facts serve to explain more things in democratic than in aristocratic ages , and fewer things are then assignable to special influences . 
In aristocratic ages , as the attention of historians is constantly drawn to individuals , the connection of events escapes them or rather , they do not believe in any such connection . 
To them the clew of history seems every instant crossed and broken by the step of man . 
Ancient literature , which is so rich in fine historical compositions , does not contain a single great historical system , whilst the poorest of modern literatures abound with them . 
It would appear that the ancient historians did not make sufficient use of those general theories which our historical writers are ever ready to carry to excess . 
Those who write in democratic ages have another more dangerous tendency . 
When the traces of individual action upon nations are lost , it often happens that the world goes on to move , though the moving agent is no longer discoverable . 
But even when the general fact which governs the private volition of all individuals is supposed to be discovered upon the earth , the principle of human free will is not secure . 
According to them , each nation is indissolubly bound by its position , its origin , its precedents , and its character , to a certain lot which no efforts can ever change . 
To their minds it is not enough to show what events have occurred they would fain show that events could not have occurred otherwise . 
They take a nation arrived at a certain stage of its history , and they affirm that it could not but follow the track which brought it thither . 
It is easier to make such an assertion than to show by what means the nation might have adopted a better course . 
In perusing the historical volumes which our age has produced , it would seem that man is utterly powerless over himself and over all around him . 
The historians of antiquity taught how to command those of our time teach only how to obey in their writings the author often appears great , but humanity is always diminutive . 
I would moreover observe , that such principles are peculiarly dangerous at the period at which we are arrived . 
Let not this principle be lost sight of for the great object in our time is to raise the faculties of men , not to complete their prostration . 
Something of the same kind always occurs in the political assemblies of these nations . 
Parties naturally range themselves under certain leaders , whom they obey by a sort of instinct , which is only the result of habits contracted elsewhere . 
They carry the manners of general society into the lesser assemblage . 
Accustomed to regulate his doings by personal impulse alone , he does not willingly submit to dictation from without . 
This taste and habit of independence accompany him into the councils of the nation . 
Hence it is that in democratic countries parties are so impatient of control , and are never manageable except in moments of great public danger . 
Even then , the authority of leaders , which under such circumstances may be able to make men act or speak , hardly ever reaches the extent of making them keep silence . 
Amongst aristocratic nations the members of political assemblies are at the same time members of the aristocracy . 
This consoles him for playing no part in the discussion of public affairs , and restrains him from too eagerly attempting to play an insignificant one . 
In America , it generally happens that a Representative only becomes somebody from his position in the Assembly . 
He is therefore perpetually haunted by a craving to acquire importance there , and he feels a petulant desire to be constantly obtruding his opinions upon the House . 
His own vanity is not the only stimulant which urges him on in this course , but that of his constituents , and the continual necessity of propitiating them . 
In a democratic country like the United States a Representative has hardly ever a lasting hold on the minds of his constituents . 
However small an electoral body may be , the fluctuations of democracy are constantly changing its aspect it must , therefore , be courted unceasingly . 
But what ought to be said to gratify constituents is not always what ought to be said in order to serve the party to which Representatives profess to belong . 
To keep silence is the most useful service that an indifferent spokesman can render to the commonwealth . 
Constituents , however , do not think so . 
The population of a district sends a representative to take a part in the government of a country , because they entertain a very lofty notion of his merits . 
On these terms they will vote for him at the next election . 
These conditions drive worthy men of humble abilities to despair , who , knowing their own powers , would never voluntarily have come forward . 
All laws which tend to make the Representative more dependent on the elector , not only affect the conduct of the legislators , as I have remarked elsewhere , but also their language . 
They exercise a simultaneous influence on affairs themselves , and on the manner in which affairs are discussed . 
, and of petty minutia , which he is but too able to discover and to point out . 
Some such state of things will , I believe , always arise in the public assemblies of democracies . 
They are resigned to it , as to an evil which they know to be inevitable . 
We have shown the petty side of political debates in democratic assemblies let us now exhibit the more imposing one . 
This was attributable not only to particular and fortuitous circumstances , but to general and lasting causes . 
I can conceive nothing more admirable or more powerful than a great orator debating on great questions of state in a democratic assembly . 
This expands his thoughts , and heightens his power of language . 
Hence the political debates of a democratic people , however small it may be , have a degree of breadth which frequently renders them attractive to mankind . 
All men are interested by them , because they treat of man , who is everywhere the same . 
The orators of France frequently speak to mankind , even when they are addressing their countrymen only . 
My readers will therefore not be surprised that I speak of its before all others . 
Everybody has remarked that in our time , and especially in France , this passion for equality is every day gaining ground in the human heart . 
It is possible to imagine an extreme point at which freedom and equality would meet and be confounded together . 
Let us suppose that all the members of the community take a part in the government , and that each of them has an equal right to take a part in it . 
To this ideal state democratic nations tend . 
Such is the completest form that equality can assume upon earth but there are a thousand others which , without being equally perfect , are not less cherished by those nations . 
The principle of equality may be established in civil society , without prevailing in the political world . 
A kind of equality may even be established in the political world , though there should be no political freedom there . 
Several other combinations might be easily imagined , by which very great equality would be united to institutions more or less free , or even to institutions wholly without freedom . 
Freedom has appeared in the world at different times and under various forms it has not been exclusively bound to any social condition , and it is not confined to democracies . 
Freedom cannot , therefore , form the distinguishing characteristic of democratic ages . 
The peculiar and preponderating fact which marks those ages as its own is the equality of conditions the ruling passion of men in those periods is the love of this equality . 
But independently of this reason there are several others , which will at all times habitually lead men to prefer equality to freedom . 
If a people could ever succeed in destroying , or even in diminishing , the equality which prevails in its own body , this could only be accomplished by long and laborious efforts . 
Its social condition must be modified , its laws abolished , its opinions superseded , its habits changed , its manners corrupted . 
But political liberty is more easily lost to neglect to hold it fast is to allow it to escape . 
Men therefore not only cling to equality because it is dear to them they also adhere to it because they think it will last forever . 
That political freedom may compromise in its excesses the tranquillity , the property , the lives of individuals , is obvious to the narrowest and most unthinking minds . 
But , on the contrary , none but attentive and clear sighted men perceive the perils with which equality threatens us , and they commonly avoid pointing them out . 
They know that the calamities they apprehend are remote , and flatter themselves that they will only fall upon future generations , for which the present generation takes but little thought . 
The evils which freedom sometimes brings with it are immediate they are apparent to all , and all are more or less affected by them . 
The advantages which freedom brings are only shown by length of time and it is always easy to mistake the cause in which they originate . 
The advantages of equality are instantaneous , and they may constantly be traced from their source . 
Political liberty bestows exalted pleasures , from time to time , upon a certain number of citizens . 
Equality every day confers a number of small enjoyments on every man . 
The charms of equality are every instant felt , and are within the reach of all the noblest hearts are not insensible to them , and the most vulgar souls exult in them . 
The passion which equality engenders must therefore be at once strong and general . 
Men cannot enjoy political liberty unpurchased by some sacrifices , and they never obtain it without great exertions . 
But the pleasures of equality are self proffered each of the petty incidents of life seems to occasion them , and in order to taste them nothing is required but to live . 
Democratic nations are at all times fond of equality , but there are certain epochs at which the passion they entertain for it swells to the height of fury . 
At such times men pounce upon equality as their booty , and they cling to it as to some precious treasure which they fear to lose . 
The passion for equality penetrates on every side into men's hearts , expands there , and fills them entirely . 
Tell them not that by this blind surrender of themselves to an exclusive passion they risk their dearest interests they are deaf . 
What I have said is applicable to all democratic nations what I am about to say concerns the French alone . 
Absolute kings were the most efficient levellers of ranks amongst their subjects . 
They will endure poverty , servitude , barbarism but they will not endure aristocracy . 
This is true at all times , and especially true in our own . 
All men and all powers seeking to cope with this irresistible passion , will be overthrown and destroyed by it . 
In our age , freedom cannot be established without it , and despotism itself cannot reign without its support . 
Individualism a is a novel expression , to which a novel idea has given birth . 
Our fathers were only acquainted with egotism . 
Egotism is a passionate and exaggerated love of self , which leads a man to connect everything with his own person , and to prefer himself to everything in the world . 
Egotism originates in blind instinct individualism proceeds from erroneous judgment more than from depraved feelings it originates as much in the deficiencies of the mind as in the perversity of the heart . 
The chapter itself defines the meaning attached to it by the author . 
Amongst aristocratic nations , as families remain for centuries in the same condition , often on the same spot , all generations become as it were contemporaneous . 
A man almost always knows his forefathers , and respects them he thinks he already sees his remote descendants , and he loves them . 
He willingly imposes duties on himself towards the former and the latter and he will frequently sacrifice his personal gratifications to those who went before and to those who will come after him . 
Aristocratic institutions have , moreover , the effect of closely binding every man to several of his fellow citizens . 
Men living in aristocratic ages are therefore almost always closely attached to something placed out of their own sphere , and they are often disposed to forget themselves . 
It is true that in those ages the notion of human fellowship is faint , and that men seldom think of sacrificing themselves for mankind but they often sacrifice themselves for other men . 
Those who went before are soon forgotten of those who will come after no one has any idea the interest of man is confined to those in close propinquity to himself . 
As each class approximates to other classes , and intermingles with them , its members become indifferent and as strangers to one another . 
Aristocracy had made a chain of all the members of the community , from the peasant to the king democracy breaks that chain , and severs every link of it . 
An aristocracy seldom yields without a protracted struggle , in the course of which implacable animosities are kindled between the different classes of society . 
These passions survive the victory , and traces of them may be observed in the midst of the democratic confusion which ensues . 
It is , then , commonly at the outset of democratic society that citizens are most disposed to live apart . 
No vice of the human heart is so acceptable to it as egotism a despot easily forgives his subjects for not loving him , provided they do not love each other . 
He does not ask them to assist him in governing the State it is enough that they do not aspire to govern it themselves . 
Thus the vices which despotism engenders are precisely those which equality fosters . 
These two things mutually and perniciously complete and assist each other . 
Despotism then , which is at all times dangerous , is more particularly to be feared in democratic ages . 
It is easy to see that in those same ages men stand most in need of freedom . 
When the members of a community are forced to attend to public affairs , they are necessarily drawn from the circle of their own interests , and snatched at times from self observation . 
Many of the passions which congeal and keep asunder human hearts , are then obliged to retire and hide below the surface . 
Pride must be dissembled disdain dares not break out egotism fears its own self . 
Men learn at such times to think of their fellow men from ambitious motives and they frequently find it , in a manner , their interest to forget themselves . 
I may here be met by an objection derived from electioneering intrigues , the meannesses of candidates , and the calumnies of their opponents . 
These are opportunities for animosity which occur the oftener the more frequent elections become . 
Such evils are doubtless great , but they are transient whereas the benefits which attend them remain . 
Freedom engenders private animosities , but despotism gives birth to general indifference . 
The Americans have combated by free institutions the tendency of equality to keep men asunder , and they have subdued it . 
The plan was a wise one . 
This truth does not take root at once in the minds of the rich . 
They generally resist it as long as the democratic revolution lasts , and they do not acknowledge it immediately after that revolution is accomplished . 
They are very ready to do good to the people , but they still choose to keep them at arm's length they think that is sufficient , but they are mistaken . 
They might spend fortunes thus without warming the hearts of the population around them that population does not ask them for the sacrifice of their money , but of their pride . 
It would seem as if every imagination in the United States were upon the stretch to invent means of increasing the wealth and satisfying the wants of the public . 
When the vices and weaknesses , frequently exhibited by those who govern in America , are closely examined , the prosperity of the people occasions but improperly occasions surprise . 
Elected magistrates do not make the American democracy flourish it flourishes because the magistrates are elective . 
It would be unjust to suppose that the patriotism and the zeal which every American displays for the welfare of his fellow citizens are wholly insincere . 
Although private interest directs the greater part of human actions in the United States as well as elsewhere , it does not regulate them all . 
Many people in France consider equality of conditions as one evil , and political freedom as a second . 
When they are obliged to yield to the former , they strive at least to escape from the latter . 
But I contend that in order to combat the evils which equality may produce , there is only one effectual remedy namely , political freedom . 
That subject I have already treated . 
Those associations only which are formed in civil life , without reference to political objects , are here adverted to . 
The political associations which exist in the United States are only a single feature in the midst of the immense assemblage of associations in that country . 
Americans of all ages , all conditions , and all dispositions , constantly form associations . 
If it be proposed to advance some truth , or to foster some feeling by the encouragement of a great example , they form a society . 
The English often perform great things singly whereas the Americans form associations for the smallest undertakings . 
It is evident that the former people consider association as a powerful means of action , but the latter seem to regard it as the only means they have of acting . 
In aristocratic societies men do not need to combine in order to act , because they are strongly held together . 
They all , therefore , fall into a state of incapacity , if they do not learn voluntarily to help each other . 
A people amongst which individuals should lose the power of achieving great things single handed , without acquiring the means of producing them by united exertions , would soon relapse into barbarism . 
Unhappily , the same social condition which renders associations so necessary to democratic nations , renders their formation more difficult amongst those nations than amongst all others . 
The same opportunities do not occur amongst democratic nations , where the associated members must always be very numerous for their association to have any power . 
I am aware that many of my countrymen are not in the least embarrassed by this difficulty . 
They believe this answers the whole difficulty , but I think they are mistaken . 
The task of the governing power will therefore perpetually increase , and its very efforts will extend it every day . 
Feelings and opinions are recruited , the heart is enlarged , and the human mind is developed by no other means than by the reciprocal influence of men upon each other . 
I have shown that these influences are almost null in democratic countries they must therefore be artificially created , and this can only be accomplished by associations . 
In democratic countries the governing power alone is naturally in a condition to act in this manner but it is easy to see that its action is always inadequate , and often dangerous . 
A government can no more be competent to keep alive and to renew the circulation of opinions and feelings amongst a great people , than to manage all the speculations of productive industry . 
Worse still will be the case if the government really believes itself interested in preventing all circulation of ideas it will then stand motionless , and oppressed by the heaviness of voluntary torpor . 
Governments therefore should not be the only active powers associations ought , in democratic nations , to stand in lieu of those powerful private individuals whom the equality of conditions has swept away . 
From that moment they are no longer isolated men , but a power seen from afar , whose actions serve for an example , and whose language is listened to . 
I at last understood that , Americans , alarmed by the progress of drunkenness around them , had made up their minds to patronize temperance . 
They acted just in the same way as a man of high rank who should dress very plainly , in order to inspire the humbler orders with a contempt of luxury . 
It is probable that if these , men had lived in France , each of them would singly have memorialized the government to watch the publichouses all over the kingdom . 
Nothing , in my opinion , is more deserving of our attention than the intellectual and moral associations of America . 
It must , however , be acknowledged that they are as necessary to the American people as the former , and perhaps more so . 
In democratic countries the science of association is the mother of science the progress of all the rest depends upon the progress it has made . 
Amongst the laws which rule human societies there is one which seems to be more precise and clear than all others . 
If men are to remain civilized , or to become so , the art of associating together must grow and improve in the same ratio in which the equality of conditions is increased . 
This can only be habitually and conveniently effected by means of a newspaper nothing but a newspaper can drop the same thought into a thousand minds at the same moment . 
Newspapers therefore become more necessary in proportion as men become more equal , and individualism more to be feared . 
To suppose that they only serve to protect freedom would be to diminish their importance they maintain civilization . 
I shall not deny that in democratic countries newspapers frequently lead the citizens to launch together in very ill digested schemes but if there were no newspapers there would be no common activity . 
The evil which they produce is therefore much less than that which they cure . 
A newspaper then takes up the notion or the feeling which had occurred simultaneously , but singly , to each of them . 
All are then immediately guided towards this beacon and these wandering minds , which had long sought each other in darkness , at length meet and unite . 
The newspaper brought them together , and the newspaper is still necessary to keep them united . 
In order that an association amongst a democratic people should have any power , it must be a numerous body . 
Means then must be found to converse every day without seeing each other , and to take steps in common without having met . 
Thus hardly any democratic association can do without newspapers . 
Thus it is in America that we find at the same time the greatest number of associations and of newspapers . 
For amongst democratic nations the exercise of local powers cannot be intrusted to the principal members of the community as in aristocracies . 
The extraordinary subdivision of administrative power has much more to do with the enormous number of American newspapers than the great political freedom of the country and the absolute liberty of the press . 
There is a prevailing opinion in France and England that the circulation of newspapers would be indefinitely increased by removing the taxes which have been laid upon the press . 
This is a very exaggerated estimate of the effects of such a reform . 
Newspapers increase in numbers , not according to their cheapness , but according to the more or less frequent want which a great number of men may feel for intercommunication and combination . 
In like manner I should attribute the increasing influence of the daily press to causes more general than those by which it is commonly explained . 
A newspaper can only subsist on the condition of publishing sentiments or principles common to a large number of men . 
A newspaper therefore always represents an association which is composed of its habitual readers . 
This leads me to a last reflection , with which I shall conclude this chapter . 
The power of the newspaper press must therefore increase as the social conditions of men become more equal . 
Chapter VII Connection Of Civil And Political Associations There is only one country on the face of the earth where the citizens enjoy unlimited freedom of association for political purposes . 
In all the countries where political associations are prohibited , civil associations are rare . 
The greater is the multiplicity of small affairs , the more do men , even without knowing it , acquire facility in prosecuting great undertakings in common . 
Civil associations , therefore , facilitate political association but , on the other hand , political association singularly strengthens and improves associations for civil purposes . 
In civil life every man may , strictly speaking , fancy that he can provide for his own wants in politics , he can fancy no such thing . 
Politics not only give birth to numerous associations , but to associations of great extent . 
Now it is solely in great associations that the general value of the principle of association is displayed . 
Citizens who are individually powerless , do not very clearly anticipate the strength which they may acquire by uniting together it must be shown to them in order to be understood . 
Once met , they can always meet again . 
Men can embark in few civil partnerships without risking a portion of their possessions this is the case with all manufacturing and trading companies . 
They therefore prefer depriving themselves of a powerful instrument of success to running the risks which attend the use of it . 
They are , however , less reluctant to join political associations , which appear to them to be without danger , because they adventure no money in them . 
Political associations may therefore be considered as large free schools , where all the members of the community go to learn the general theory of association . 
But even if political association did not directly contribute to the progress of civil association , to destroy the former would be to impair the latter . 
When citizens can only meet in public for certain purposes , they regard such meetings as a strange proceeding of rare occurrence , and they rarely think at all about it . 
Every new want instantly revives the notion . 
The art of association then becomes , as I have said before , the mother of action , studied and applied by all . 
When some kinds of associations are prohibited and others allowed , it is difficult to distinguish the former from the latter , beforehand . 
a a This is more especially true when the executive government has a discretionary power of allowing or prohibiting associations . 
When certain associations are simply prohibited by law , and the courts of justice have to punish infringements of that law , the evil is far less considerable . 
Then every citizen knows beforehand pretty nearly what he has to expect . 
He judges himself before he is judged by the law , and , abstaining from prohibited associations , he embarks in those which are legally sanctioned . 
It is by these restrictions that all free nations have always admitted that the right of association might be limited . 
The former of these laws would only assail certain associations the latter would apply to society itself , and inflict an injury upon it . 
I can conceive that a regular government may have recourse to the former , but I do not concede that any government has the right of enacting the latter . 
In democratic countries political associations are , so to speak , the only powerful persons who aspire to rule the State . 
There they meet together in large numbers , they converse , they listen to each other , and they are mutually stimulated to all sorts of undertakings . 
They afterwards transfer to civil life the notions they have thus acquired , and make them subservient to a thousand purposes . 
Thus it is by the enjoyment of a dangerous freedom that the Americans learn the art of rendering the dangers of freedom less formidable . 
I said in the former part of this work , The unrestrained liberty of political association cannot be entirely assimilated to the liberty of the press . 
The one is at the same time less necessary and more dangerous than the other . 
A nation may confine it within certain limits without ceasing to be mistress of itself and it may sometimes be obliged to do so in order to maintain its own authority . 
And further on I added It cannot be denied that the unrestrained liberty of association for political purposes is the last degree of liberty which a people is fit for . 
If it does not throw them into anarchy , it perpetually brings them , as it were , to the verge of it . 
They were fond of professing that it is praiseworthy to forget one's self , and that good should be done without hope of reward , as it is by the Deity himself . 
Such were the standard opinions of that time in morals . 
I doubt whether men were more virtuous in aristocratic ages than in others but they were incessantly talking of the beauties of virtue , and its utility was only studied in secret . 
In the United States hardly anybody talks of the beauty of virtue but they maintain that virtue is useful , and prove it every day . 
They therefore do not deny that every man may follow his own interest but they endeavor to prove that it is the interest of every man to be virtuous . 
I shall not here enter into the reasons they allege , which would divert me from my subject suffice it to say that they have convinced their fellow countrymen . 
It is as often to be met with on the lips of the poor man as of the rich . 
I might here pause , without attempting to pass a judgment on what I have described . 
The principle of interest rightly understood is not a lofty one , but it is clear and sure . 
It does not aim at mighty objects , but it attains without excessive exertion all those at which it aims . 
As it lies within the reach of all capacities , everyone can without difficulty apprehend and retain it . 
The principle of interest rightly understood produces no great acts of self sacrifice , but it suggests daily small acts of self denial . 
Observe some few individuals , they are lowered by it survey mankind , it is raised . 
Towards it , therefore , the minds of the moralists of our age should turn even should they judge it to be incomplete , it must nevertheless be adopted as necessary . 
I do not think upon the whole that there is more egotism amongst us than in America the only difference is , that there it is enlightened here it is not . 
Every American will sacrifice a portion of his private interests to preserve the rest we would fain preserve the whole , and oftentimes the whole is lost . 
Everybody I see about me seems bent on teaching his contemporaries , by precept and example , that what is useful is never wrong . 
It is therefore necessary to ascertain whether the principle of interest rightly understood is easily compatible with religious belief . 
The founders of almost all religions have held the same language . 
Nevertheless I cannot believe that all those who practise virtue from religious motives are only actuated by the hope of a recompense . 
I cannot but think that they deceive themselves I respect them too much to believe them . 
If such a man believes in the religion which he professes , it will cost him but little to submit to the restrictions it may impose . 
Reason herself counsels him to obey , and habit has prepared him to endure them . 
The Americans not only follow their religion from interest , but they often place in this world the interest which makes them follow it . 
In the Middle Ages the clergy spoke of nothing but a future state they hardly cared to prove that a sincere Christian may be a happy man here below . 
But the American preachers are constantly referring to the earth and it is only with great difficulty that they can divert their attention from it . 
Carefully to satisfy all , even the least wants of the body , and to provide the little conveniences of life , is uppermost in every mind . 
Something of an analogous character is more and more apparent in Europe . 
Amongst the causes which produce these similar consequences in both hemispheres , several are so connected with my subject as to deserve notice . 
When riches are hereditarily fixed in families , there are a great number of men who enjoy the comforts of life without feeling an exclusive taste for those comforts . 
In aristocratic communities , the wealthy , never having experienced a condition different from their own , entertain no fear of changing it the existence of such conditions hardly occurs to them . 
The comforts of life are not to them the end of life , but simply a way of living they regard them as existence itself enjoyed , but scarcely thought of . 
If I turn my observation from the upper to the lower classes , I find analogous effects produced by opposite causes . 
Amongst a nation where aristocracy predominates in society , and keeps it stationary , the people in the end get as much accustomed to poverty as the rich to their opulence . 
Many scanty fortunes spring up those who possess them have a sufficient share of physical gratifications to conceive a taste for these pleasures not enough to satisfy it . 
They never procure them without exertion , and they never indulge in them without apprehension . 
They are therefore always straining to pursue or to retain gratifications so delightful , so imperfect , so fugitive . 
The passion for physical comforts is essentially a passion of the middle classes with those classes it grows and spreads , with them it preponderates . 
From them it mounts into the higher orders of society , and descends into the mass of the people . 
But even these men are not less devotedly attached to the pleasures of material life . 
The love of well being is now become the predominant taste of the nation the great current of man's passions runs in that channel , and sweeps everything along in its course . 
Such is not the case the passion for physical gratifications produces in democracies effects very different from those which it occasions in aristocratic nations . 
Such men are not satisfied with the pursuit of comfort they require sumptuous depravity and splendid corruption . 
The worship they pay the senses is a gorgeous one and they seem to vie with each other in the art of degrading their own natures . 
The taste for physical gratifications leads a democratic people into no such excesses . 
The love of well being is there displayed as a tenacious , exclusive , universal passion but its range is confined . 
Nor is it adverse to regularity of morals , for good morals contribute to public tranquillity and are favorable to industry . 
It may even be frequently combined with a species of religious morality men wish to be as well off as they can in this world , without foregoing their chance of another . 
Some physical gratifications cannot be indulged in without crime from such they strictly abstain . 
Here and there , in the midst of American society , you meet with men , full of a fanatical and almost wild enthusiasm , which hardly exists in Europe . 
From time to time strange sects arise , which endeavor to strike out extraordinary paths to eternal happiness . 
Religious insanity is very common in the United States . 
Nor ought these facts to surprise us . 
He may cross and distort them destroy them he cannot . 
The soul has wants which must be satisfied and whatever pains be taken to divert it from itself , it soon grows weary , restless , and disquieted amidst the enjoyments of sense . 
They would drift at large in the world of spirits , for fear of remaining shackled by the close bondage of the body . 
It is not then wonderful if , in the midst of a community whose thoughts tend earthward , a small number of individuals are to be found who turn their looks to heaven . 
I should be surprised if mysticism did not soon make some advance amongst a people solely engaged in promoting its own worldly welfare . 
But they feel imprisoned within bounds which they will apparently never be allowed to pass . 
As soon as they have passed these bounds , their minds know not where to fix themselves , and they often rush unrestrained beyond the range of common sense . 
The chief reason of this contrast is that the former do not think of the ills they endure the latter are forever brooding over advantages they do not possess . 
He clutches everything , he holds nothing fast , but soon loosens his grasp to pursue fresh gratifications . 
Death at length overtakes him , but it is before he is weary of his bootless chase of that complete felicity which is forever on the wing . 
At first sight there is something surprising in this strange unrest of so many happy men , restless in the midst of abundance . 
The spectacle itself is however as old as the world the novelty is to see a whole people furnish an exemplification of it . 
The recollection of the brevity of life is a constant spur to him . 
Besides the good things which he possesses , he every instant fancies a thousand others which death will prevent him from trying if he does not try them soon . 
This thought fills him with anxiety , fear , and regret , and keeps his mind in ceaseless trepidation , which leads him perpetually to change his plans and his abode . 
Men will then be seen continually to change their track , for fear of missing the shortest cut to happiness . 
Their prevailing frame of mind then is at once ardent and relaxed , violent and enervated . 
Death is often less dreaded than perseverance in continuous efforts to one end . 
The equality of conditions leads by a still straighter road to several of the effects which I have here described . 
But this is an erroneous notion , which is corrected by daily experience . 
Not only are they themselves powerless , but they are met at every step by immense obstacles , which they did not at first perceive . 
This constant strife between the propensities springing from the equality of conditions and the means it supplies to satisfy them , harasses and wearies the mind . 
It is possible to conceive men arrived at a degree of freedom which should completely content them they would then enjoy their independence without anxiety and without impatience . 
But men will never establish any equality with which they can be contented . 
Hence the desire of equality always becomes more insatiable in proportion as equality is more complete . 
Amongst democratic nations men easily attain a certain equality of conditions they can never attain the equality they desire . 
It perpetually retires from before them , yet without hiding itself from their sight , and in retiring draws them on . 
At every moment they think they are about to grasp it it escapes at every moment from their hold . 
They are near enough to see its charms , but too far off to enjoy them and before they have fully tasted its delights they die . 
Complaints are made in France that the number of suicides increases in America suicide is rare , but insanity is said to be more common than anywhere else . 
These are all different symptoms of the same disease . 
The will resists reason frequently gives way . 
I know not if a single trading or manufacturing people can be cited , from the Tyrians down to the Florentines and the English , who were not a free people also . 
There is therefore a close bond and necessary relation between these two elements freedom and productive industry . 
This proposition is generally true of all nations , but especially of democratic nations . 
Freedom , in these ages , is therefore especially favorable to the production of wealth nor is it difficult to perceive that despotism is especially adverse to the same result . 
The nature of despotic power in democratic ages is not to be fierce or cruel , but minute and meddling . 
Despotism of this kind , though it does not trample on humanity , is directly opposed to the genius of commerce and the pursuits of industry . 
Thus the men of democratic ages require to be free in order more readily to procure those physical enjoyments for which they are always longing . 
It sometimes happens , however , that the excessive taste they conceive for these same enjoyments abandons them to the first master who appears . 
The passion for worldly welfare then defeats itself , and , without perceiving it , throws the object of their desires to a greater distance . 
There is , indeed , a most dangerous passage in the history of a democratic people . 
In their intense and exclusive anxiety to make a fortune , they lose sight of the close connection which exists between the private fortune of each of them and the prosperity of all . 
It is not necessary to do violence to such a people in order to strip them of the rights they enjoy they themselves willingly loosen their hold . 
The discharge of political duties appears to them to be a troublesome annoyance , which diverts them from their occupations and business . 
If at that critical moment some able and ambitious man grasps the supreme power , he will find the road to every kind of usurpation open before him . 
If he does but attend for some time to the material prosperity of the country , no more will be demanded of him . 
If the slightest rumor of public commotion intrudes into the petty pleasures of private life , they are aroused and alarmed by it . 
The fear of anarchy perpetually haunts them , and they are always ready to fling away their freedom at the first disturbance . 
I readily admit that public tranquillity is a great good but at the same time I cannot forget that all nations have been enslaved by being kept in good order . 
Certainly it is not to be inferred that nations ought to despise public tranquillity but that state ought not to content them . 
By such a nation the despotism of faction is not less to be dreaded than the despotism of an individual . 
When the bulk of the community is engrossed by private concerns , the smallest parties need not despair of getting the upper hand in public affairs . 
Hitherto the Americans have fortunately escaped all the perils which I have just pointed out and in this respect they are really deserving of admiration . 
But if the passion of the Americans for physical gratifications is vehement , at least it is not indiscriminating and reason , though unable to restrain it , still directs its course . 
At one time he seems animated by the most selfish cupidity , at another by the most lively patriotism . 
The human heart cannot be thus divided . 
And indeed the Americans believe their freedom to be the best instrument and surest safeguard of their welfare they are attached to the one by the other . 
I am now treating of the Americans in an individual capacity , and I again observe that religion is not less useful to each citizen than to the whole State . 
The Americans show , by their practice , that they feel the high necessity of imparting morality to democratic communities by means of religion . 
What they think of themselves in this respect is a truth of which every democratic nation ought to be thoroughly persuaded . 
The attention of the legislators of democracies is called to other cares . 
Give democratic nations education and freedom , and leave them alone . 
Their social condition naturally urges them in this direction I do not fear that they will slacken their course . 
Here , and here only , does the peril lie . 
The materialists are offensive to me in many respects their doctrines I hold to be pernicious , and I am disgusted at their arrogance . 
If their system could be of any utility to man , it would seem to be by giving him a modest opinion of himself . 
It were well that they should see the danger and hold back . 
Most religions are only general , simple , and practical means of teaching men the doctrine of the immortality of the soul . 
That is the greatest benefit which a democratic people derives , from its belief , and hence belief is more necessary to such a people than to all others . 
When therefore any religion has struck its roots deep into a democracy , beware lest you disturb them but rather watch it carefully , as the most precious bequest of aristocratic ages . 
It is clear from the works of Plato , that many philosophical writers , his predecessors or contemporaries , professed materialism . 
These writers have not reached us , or have reached us in mere fragments . 
The same thing has happened in almost all ages the greater part of the most famous minds in literature adhere to the doctrines of a supersensual philosophy . 
Man may leave these two things apart , and consider each of them alternately but he cannot sever them entirely without at last losing sight of one and of the other . 
The beasts have the same senses as ourselves , and very nearly the same appetites . 
In man , the angel teaches the brute the art of contenting its desires . 
Whatever elevates , enlarges , and expands the soul , renders it more capable of succeeding in those very undertakings which concern it not . 
Hence the soul must remain great and strong , though it were only to devote its strength and greatness from time to time to the service of the body . 
When these same men engage in the affairs of this world , the same habits may be traced in their conduct . 
If the social condition of a people , under these circumstances , becomes democratic , the danger which I here point out is thereby increased . 
The instability of society itself fosters the natural instability of man's desires . 
Circumscribed by the character of his country and his age , the moralist must learn to vindicate his principles in that position . 
The task of those in power is not less clearly marked out . 
By acting thus , the leading men of democracies not only make public affairs prosperous , but they also teach private individuals , by their example , the art of managing private concerns . 
Above all they must strive as much as possible to banish chance from the sphere of politics . 
The notion of labor is therefore presented to the mind on every side as the necessary , natural , and honest condition of human existence . 
Not only is labor not dishonorable amongst such a people , but it is held in honor the prejudice is not against it , but in its favor . 
In the United States a wealthy man thinks that he owes it to public opinion to devote his leisure to some kind of industrial or commercial pursuit , or to public business . 
He would think himself in bad repute if he employed his life solely in living . 
Equality of conditions not only ennobles the notion of labor in men's estimation , but it raises the notion of labor as a source of profit . 
In aristocracies it is not exactly labor that is despised , but labor with a view to profit . 
Labor is honorific in itself , when it is undertaken at the sole bidding of ambition or of virtue . 
Yet in aristocratic society it constantly happens that he who works for honor is not insensible to the attractions of profit . 
But these two desires only intermingle in the innermost depths of his soul he carefully hides from every eye the point at which they join he would fain conceal it from himself . 
In aristocratic countries there are few public officers who do not affect to serve their country without interested motives . 
Their salary is an incident of which they think but little , and of which they always affect not to think at all . 
Thus the notion of profit is kept distinct from that of labor however they may be united in point of fact , they are not thought of together . 
In democratic communities these two notions are , on the contrary , always palpably united . 
If all are not alike , all at least have one feature in common . 
No profession exists in which men do not work for money and the remuneration which is common to them all gives them all an air of resemblance . 
This serves to explain the opinions which the Americans entertain with respect to different callings . 
He is paid for commanding , other men for obeying orders . 
In the United States professions are more or less laborious , more or less profitable but they are never either high or low every honest calling is honorable . 
Book Two Chapters XIX XX Chapter XIX That Almost All The Americans Follow Industrial Callings Agriculture is , perhaps , of all the useful arts that which improves most slowly amongst democratic nations . 
Frequently , indeed , it would seem to be stationary , because other arts are making rapid strides towards perfection . 
On the other hand , almost all the tastes and habits which the equality of condition engenders naturally lead men to commercial and industrial occupations . 
Agriculture is therefore only suited to those who have already large , superfluous wealth , or to those whose penury bids them only seek a bare subsistence . 
The choice of such a man as we have supposed is soon made he sells his plot of ground , leaves his dwelling , and embarks in some hazardous but lucrative calling . 
Democratic communities abound in men of this kind and in proportion as the equality of conditions becomes greater , their multitude increases . 
All the causes which make the love of worldly welfare predominate in the heart of man are favorable to the growth of commerce and manufactures . 
This spirit may be observed even amongst the richest members of the community . 
In aristocracies the rich are at the same time those who govern . 
The attention which they unceasingly devote to important public affairs diverts them from the lesser cares which trade and manufactures demand . 
b b Some aristocracies , however , have devoted themselves eagerly to commerce , and have cultivated manufactures with success . 
The history of the world might furnish several conspicuous examples . 
But , generally speaking , it may be affirmed that the aristocratic principle is not favorable to the growth of trade and manufactures . 
Moneyed aristocracies are the only exception to the rule . 
This is the case in England , where men seek to get rich in order to arrive at distinction , and seek distinctions as a manifestation of their wealth . 
The mind is then seized by both ends , and hurried into trade and manufactures , which are the shortest roads that lead to opulence . 
This , however , strikes me as an exceptional and transitory circumstance . 
When wealth is become the only symbol of aristocracy , it is very difficult for the wealthy to maintain sole possession of political power , to the exclusion of all other men . 
The aristocracy of birth and pure democracy are at the two extremes of the social and political state of nations between them moneyed aristocracy finds its place . 
Trade is the only road open to them . 
In democracies nothing is more great or more brilliant than commerce it attracts the attention of the public , and fills the imagination of the multitude all energetic passions are directed towards it . 
Neither their own prejudices , nor those of anybody else , can prevent the rich from devoting themselves to it . 
A similar observation is likewise applicable to all men living in democracies , whether they be poor or rich . 
Those who live in the midst of democratic fluctuations have always before their eyes the phantom of chance and they end by liking all undertakings in which chance plays a part . 
The consequence is , that a stranger is constantly amazed by the immense public works executed by a nation which contains , so to speak , no rich men . 
The Americans arrived but as yesterday on the territory which they inhabit , and they have already changed the whole order of nature for their own advantage . 
The longest railroads which have been constructed up to the present time are in America . 
But what most astonishes me in the United States , is not so much the marvellous grandeur of some undertakings , as the innumerable multitude of small ones . 
Almost all the farmers of the United States combine some trade with agriculture most of them make agriculture itself a trade . 
Every year a swarm of the inhabitants of the North arrive in the Southern States , and settle in the parts where the cotton plant and the sugar cane grow . 
Thus the Americans carry their business like qualities into agriculture and their trading passions are displayed in that as in their other pursuits . 
The Americans make immense progress in productive industry , because they all devote themselves to it at once and for this same reason they are exposed to very unexpected and formidable embarrassments . 
As they are all engaged in commerce , their commercial affairs are affected by such various and complex causes that it is impossible to foresee what difficulties may arise . 
I believe that the return of these commercial panics is an endemic disease of the democratic nations of our age . 
It may be rendered less dangerous , but it cannot be cured because it does not originate in accidental circumstances , but in the temperament of these nations . 
It is acknowledged that when a workman is engaged every day upon the same detail , the whole commodity is produced with greater ease , promptitude , and economy . 
These truths had long been imperfectly discerned , but in our time they have been demonstrated . 
They have been already applied to many very important kinds of manufactures , and the humblest will gradually be governed by them . 
I know of nothing in politics which deserves to fix the attention of the legislator more closely than these two new axioms of the science of manufactures . 
He every day becomes more adroit and less industrious so that it may be said of him , that in proportion as the workman improves the man is degraded . 
In proportion as the principle of the division of labor is more extensively applied , the workman becomes more weak , more narrow minded , and more dependent . 
The art advances , the artisan recedes . 
The magnitude of the efforts required , and the importance of the results to be obtained , attract them . 
Thus at the very time at which the science of manufactures lowers the class of workmen , it raises the class of masters . 
In a short time the one will require nothing but physical strength without intelligence the other stands in need of science , and almost of genius , to insure success . 
This man resembles more and more the administrator of a vast empire that man , a brute . 
The master and the workman have then here no similarity , and their differences increase every day . 
They are only connected as the two rings at the extremities of a long chain . 
Thus , in proportion as the mass of the nation turns to democracy , that particular class which is engaged in manufactures becomes more aristocratic . 
Men grow more alike in the one more different in the other and inequality increases in the less numerous class in the same ratio in which it decreases in the community . 
Hence it would appear , on searching to the bottom , that aristocracy should naturally spring out of the bosom of democracy . 
But this kind of aristocracy by no means resembles those kinds which preceded it . 
It will be observed at once , that as it applies exclusively to manufactures and to some manufacturing callings , it is a monstrous exception in the general aspect of society . 
The poor have few means of escaping from their condition and becoming rich but the rich are constantly becoming poor , or they give up business when they have realized a fortune . 
Thus the elements of which the class of the poor is composed are fixed but the elements of which the class of the rich is composed are not so . 
Not only are the rich not compactly united amongst themselves , but there is no real bond between them and the poor . 
Their relative position is not a permanent one they are constantly drawn together or separated by their interests . 
The manufacturer asks nothing of the workman but his labor the workman expects nothing from him but his wages . 
The one contracts no obligation to protect , nor the other to defend and they are not permanently connected either by habit or by duty . 
The aristocracy created by business rarely settles in the midst of the manufacturing population which it directs the object is not to govern that population , but to use it . 
But the manufacturing aristocracy of our age first impoverishes and debases the men who serve it , and then abandons them to be supported by the charity of the public . 
This is a natural consequence of what has been said before . 
Between the workmen and the master there are frequent relations , but no real partnership . 
Equality of conditions and growing civility in manners are , then , in my eyes , not only contemporaneous occurrences , but correlative facts . 
This is strictly applicable to the subject upon which we are at present engaged . 
But the same feeling does not exist between the several classes towards each other . 
Amongst an aristocratic people each caste has its own opinions , feelings , rights , manners , and modes of living . 
They cannot , therefore , thoroughly understand what others feel , nor judge of others by themselves . 
Yet they are sometimes eager to lend each other mutual aid but this is not contrary to my previous observation . 
These aristocratic institutions , which made the beings of one and the same race so different , nevertheless bound them to each other by close political ties . 
These services were not supposed to be due from man to man , but to the vassal or to the lord . 
Feudal institutions awakened a lively sympathy for the sufferings of certain men , but none at all for the miseries of mankind . 
Not that these writers felt habitual hatred or systematic disdain for the people war between the several classes of the community was not yet declared . 
They were impelled by an instinct rather than by a passion as they had formed no clear notion of a poor man's sufferings , they cared but little for his fate . 
The same feelings animated the lower orders whenever the feudal tie was broken . 
In the lower classes in Brittany revolted at the imposition of a new tax . 
These disturbances were put down with unexampled atrocity . 
Observe the language in which Madame de Sevigne , a witness of these horrors , relates them to her daughter Aux Rochers , Octobre , . 
Vous avez donc baise toute la Provence ? il n'y aurait pas satisfaction a baiser toute la Bretagne , a moins qu'on n'aimat a sentir le vin . 
On a pris soixante bourgeois , et on commence demain les punitions . 
Cette province est un bel exemple pour les autres , et surtout de respecter les gouverneurs et les gouvernantes , et de ne point jeter de pierres dans leur jardin . 
a a To feel the point of this joke the reader should recollect that Madame de Grignan was Gouvernante de Provence . 
Madame de Tarente etait hier dans ces bois par un temps enchante il n'est question ni de chambre ni de collation elle entre par la barriere et s'en retourne de meme . 
In another letter she adds Vous me parlez bien plaisamment de nos miseres nous ne sommes plus si roues un en huit jours , pour entretenir la justice . 
Il est vrai que la penderie me parait maintenant un refraichissement . 
J'ai une tout autre idee de la justice , depuis que je suis en ce pays . 
Vos galeriens me paraissent une societe d'honnetes gens qui se sont retires du monde pour mener une vie douce . 
But Madame de Sevigne had no clear notion of suffering in anyone who was not a person of quality . 
There is no wretchedness into which he cannot readily enter , and a secret instinct reveals to him its extent . 
In democratic ages men rarely sacrifice themselves for one another but they display general compassion for the members of the human race . 
Although the Americans have , in a manner , reduced egotism to a social and philosophical theory , they are nevertheless extremely open to compassion . 
In no country is criminal justice administered with more mildness than in the United States . 
Whilst the English seem disposed carefully to retain the bloody traces of the dark ages in their penal legislation , the Americans have almost expunged capital punishment from their codes . 
The circumstance which conclusively shows that this singular mildness of the Americans arises chiefly from their social condition , is the manner in which they treat their slaves . 
His mildness should therefore be attributed to the equality of conditions , rather than to civilization and education . 
What I have here remarked of individuals is , to a certain extent , applicable to nations . 
Should war break out between two nations animated by this feeling , it is sure to be waged with great cruelty . 
Cicero , who declaimed so vehemently at the notion of crucifying a Roman citizen , had not a word to say against these horrible abuses of victory . 
It is evident that in his eyes a barbarian did not belong to the same human race as a Roman . 
On the contrary , in proportion as nations become more like each other , they become reciprocally more compassionate , and the law of nations is mitigated . 
Chapter II That Democracy Renders The Habitual Intercourse Of The Americans Simple And Easy Democracy does not attach men strongly to each other but it places their habitual intercourse upon an easier footing . 
Yet there is no enmity between these men they have never seen each other before , and each believes the other to be a respectable person . 
Why then should they stand so cautiously apart ? We must go back to England to learn the reason . 
Their intercourse is not upon a footing of equality , but it is not constrained . 
When moneyed aristocracy succeeds to aristocracy of birth , the case is altered . 
Such is the condition of England at the present time and I am of opinion that the peculiarity before adverted to is principally to be attributed to this cause . 
Unable to judge at once of the social position of those he meets , an Englishman prudently avoids all contact with them . 
Many people attribute these singular anti social propensities , and the reserved and taciturn bearing of the English , to purely physical causes . 
In a foreign country two Americans are at once friends , simply because they are Americans . 
They are repulsed by no prejudice they are attracted by their common country . 
For two Englishmen the same blood is not enough they must be brought together by the same rank . 
The Americans remark this unsociable mood of the English as much as the French do , and they are not less astonished by it . 
Yet the Americans are connected with England by their origin , their religion , their language , and partially by their manners they only differ in their social condition . 
It may therefore be inferred that the reserve of the English proceeds from the constitution of their country much more than from that of its inhabitants . 
They hardly ever forget an offence , but it is not easy to offend them and their resentment is as slow to kindle as it is to abate . 
In aristocratic communities where a small number of persons manage everything , the outward intercourse of men is subject to settled conventional rules . 
Everyone then thinks he knows exactly what marks of respect or of condescension he ought to display , and none are presumed to be ignorant of the science of etiquette . 
The political institutions of the United States constantly bring citizens of all ranks into contact , and compel them to pursue great undertakings in concert . 
People thus engaged have scarcely time to attend to the details of etiquette , and they are besides too strongly interested in living harmoniously for them to stick at such things . 
They therefore soon acquire a habit of considering the feelings and opinions of those whom they meet more than their manners , and they do not allow themselves to be annoyed by trifles . 
This man will never understand that he wearies me to extinction unless I tell him so and the only way to get rid of him is to make him my enemy for life . 
These two opposite effects proceed from the same cause . 
Democratic institutions generally give men a lofty notion of their country and of themselves . 
But this is not all here is yet another double of the human heart . 
His house will be in the most fashionable part of the town he will always be surrounded by a host of servants . 
These contrasts ought not to surprise us . 
When an American asks for the co operation of his fellow citizens it is seldom refused , and I have often seen it afforded spontaneously and with great goodwill . 
All this is not in contradiction to what I have said before on the subject of individualism . 
The two things are so far from combating each other , that I can see how they agree . 
When one of them falls into danger , from which the others may save him by a slight transient sacrifice or a sudden effort , they do not fail to make the attempt . 
Extend to a people the remark here applied to a class , and you will understand my meaning . 
The more equal social conditions become , the more do men display this reciprocal disposition to oblige each other . 
In democracies no great benefits are conferred , but good offices are constantly rendered a man seldom displays self devotion , but all men are ready to be of service to one another . 
It looks as if they were afraid to give orders the posture of the superior and the inferior is ill maintained . 
The remark was a just one , and I have often made it myself . 
Nowhere have I seen masters stand so high or so low as in these two countries . 
Between these two extremes the Americans are to be placed . 
Such is the fact as it appears upon the surface of things to discover the causes of that fact , it is necessary to search the matter thoroughly . 
No communities have ever yet existed in which social conditions have been so equal that there were neither rich nor poor , and consequently neither masters nor servants . 
Democracy does not prevent the existence of these two classes , but it changes their dispositions and modifies their mutual relations . 
Amongst aristocratic nations servants form a distinct class , not more variously composed than that of masters . 
These two communities are superposed one above the other , always distinct , but regulated by analogous principles . 
Both classes constitute small communities in the heart of the nation , and certain permanent notions of right and wrong are ultimately engendered amongst them . 
The different acts of human life are viewed by one particular and unchanging light . 
a Because a class is mean , it must not be supposed that all who belong to it are mean hearted to think so would be a great mistake . 
But this was hardly ever the case amongst the inferior ranks of domestic servants . 
It may be imagined that he who occupies the lowest stage of the order of menials stands very low indeed . 
The French created a word on purpose to designate the servants of the aristocracy they called them lackeys . 
This word lackey served as the strongest expression , when all others were exhausted , to designate human meanness . 
The permanent inequality of conditions not only gives servants certain peculiar virtues and vices , but it places them in a peculiar relation with respect to their masters . 
He weighs down their will by the whole weight of the aristocracy . 
He orders their actions to a certain extent he even directs their thoughts . 
and this considerably modifies the mutual relations of these two classes of persons . 
In aristocracies a servant fills a subordinate position which he cannot get out of above him is another man , holding a superior rank which he cannot lose . 
On one side are obscurity , poverty , obedience for life on the other , and also for life , fame , wealth , and command . 
The two conditions are always distinct and always in propinquity the tie that connects them is as lasting as they are themselves . 
There is something touching , and at the same time ridiculous , in this strange confusion of two different states of being . 
These passions of masters , when they pass into the souls of menials , assume the natural dimensions of the place they occupy they are contracted and lowered . 
What was pride in the former becomes puerile vanity and paltry ostentation in the latter . 
The servants of a great man are commonly most punctilious as to the marks of respect due to him , and they attach more importance to his slightest privileges than he does himself . 
In France a few of these old servants of the aristocracy are still to be met with here and there they have survived their race , which will soon disappear with them altogether . 
In the United States I never saw anyone at all like them . 
The Americans are not only unacquainted with the kind of man , but it is hardly possible to make them understand that such ever existed . 
Equality of conditions turns servants and masters into new beings , and places them in new relative positions . 
The conditions of servants are not less equal than those of masters . 
In democracies servants are not only equal amongst themselves , but it may be said that they are in some sort the equals of their masters . 
This requires explanation in order to be rightly understood . 
At any moment a servant may become a master , and he aspires to rise to that condition the servant is therefore not a different man from the master . 
Why then has the former a right to command , and what compels the latter to obey ? the free and temporary consent of both their wills . 
Neither of them is by nature inferior to the other they only become so for a time by covenant . 
Within the terms of this covenant , the one is a servant , the other a master beyond it they are two citizens of the commonwealth two men . 
This all powerful opinion penetrates at length even into the hearts of those whose interest might arm them to resist it it affects their judgment whilst it subdues their will . 
In their inmost convictions the master and the servant no longer perceive any deep seated difference between them , and they neither hope nor fear to meet with any such at any time . 
They are therefore neither subject to disdain nor to anger , and they discern in each other neither humility nor pride . 
The master holds the contract of service to be the only source of his power , and the servant regards it as the only cause of his obedience . 
They do not quarrel about their reciprocal situations , but each knows his own and keeps it . 
This example may give a notion of what takes place between masters and servants in democratic communities . 
In aristocracies masters and servants live apart , and frequently their only intercourse is through a third person yet they commonly stand firmly by one another . 
In democratic countries the master and the servant are close together they are in daily personal contact , but their minds do not intermingle they have common occupations , hardly ever common interests . 
Amongst such a people the servant always considers himself as a sojourner in the dwelling of his masters . 
He knew nothing of their forefathers he will see nothing of their descendants he has nothing lasting to expect from their hand . 
I would fain illustrate all these reflections by the example of the Americans but for this purpose the distinctions of persons and places must be accurately traced . 
In the South of the Union , slavery exists all that I have just said is consequently inapplicable there . 
They do not themselves clearly know their proper place , and they are almost always either insolent or craven . 
They appear to me to carry into service some of those manly habits which independence and equality engender . 
It is not my purpose to inquire whether the new state of things which I have just described is inferior to that which preceded it , or simply different . 
Enough for me that it is fixed and determined for what is most important to meet with among men is not any given ordering , but order . 
Then it is that the dwelling of every citizen offers a spectacle somewhat analogous to the gloomy aspect of political society . 
The reins of domestic government dangle between them , to be snatched at by one or the other . 
Such a condition is not democracy , but revolution . 
In America there are , properly speaking , no tenant farmers every man owns the ground he tills . 
It must be admitted that democratic laws tend greatly to increase the number of landowners , and to diminish that of farming tenants . 
Yet what takes place in the United States is much less attributable to the institutions of the country than to the country itself . 
In America land is cheap , and anyone may easily become a landowner its returns are small , and its produce cannot well be divided between a landowner and a farmer . 
America therefore stands alone in this as well as in many other respects , and it would be a mistake to take it as an example . 
I believe that in democratic as well as in aristocratic countries there will be landowners and tenants , but the connection existing between them will be of a different kind . 
But he who owns a hundred acres is insensible to similar considerations , and he cares but little to win the private regard of his tenant . 
An aristocracy does not expire like a man in a single day the aristocratic principle is slowly undermined in men's opinion , before it is attacked in their laws . 
Long before open war is declared against it , the tie which had hitherto united the higher classes to the lower may be seen to be gradually relaxed . 
Indifference and contempt are betrayed by one class , jealousy and hatred by the others the intercourse between rich and poor becomes less frequent and less kind , and rents are raised . 
In the course of the last fifty years the rents of farms have amazingly increased , not only in France but throughout the greater part of Europe . 
I believe that cause is to be found in the democratic institutions which several European nations have adopted , and in the democratic passions which more or less agitate all the rest . 
I have frequently heard great English landowners congratulate themselves that , at the present day , they derive a much larger income from their estates than their fathers did . 
They have perhaps good reasons to be glad but most assuredly they know not what they are glad of . 
There is yet another sign by which it is easy to know that a great democratic revolution is going on or approaching . 
In ages of equality , the human mind takes a different bent the prevailing notion is that nothing abides , and man is haunted by the thought of mutability . 
Under this impression the landowner and the tenant himself are instinctively averse to protracted terms of obligation they are afraid of being tied up to morrow by the contract which benefits them today . 
Chapter VII Influence Of Democracy On Wages Most of the remarks which I have already made in speaking of servants and masters , may be applied to masters and workmen . 
These manufacturing speculators are extremely numerous their interests differ they cannot therefore easily concert or combine their exertions . 
In the constant struggle for wages which is going on between these two classes , their strength is divided , and success alternates from one to the other . 
In France most of those who labor for hire in agriculture , are themselves owners of certain plots of ground , which just enable them to subsist without working for anyone else . 
I think that , upon the whole , it may be asserted that a slow and gradual rise of wages is one of the general laws of democratic communities . 
In proportion as social conditions become more equal , wages rise and as wages are higher , social conditions become more equal . 
But a great and gloomy exception occurs in our own time . 
These men have generally but little education and industry , with but few resources they stand therefore almost at the mercy of the master . 
They have long been impoverished by oppression , and the poorer they become the more easily may they be oppressed they can never escape from this fatal circle of cause and consequence . 
Something analogous to this , but even more striking , may be observed in the United States . 
In America the family , in the Roman and aristocratic signification of the word , does not exist . 
But as soon as the young American approaches manhood , the ties of filial obedience are relaxed day by day master of his thoughts , he is soon master of his conduct . 
In America there is , strictly speaking , no adolescence at the close of boyhood the man appears , and begins to trace out his own path . 
The same habits , the same principles which impel the one to assert his independence , predispose the other to consider the use of that independence as an incontestable right . 
In the United States there are no restrictions on the powers of a testator . 
This may easily be accounted for . 
He was willing to allow some popular principles to regulate the distribution of property and the government of families , provided they were not to be introduced into the administration of public affairs . 
Whilst the torrent of democracy overwhelmed the civil laws of the country , he hoped to find an easy shelter behind its political institutions . 
There are certain great social principles , which a people either introduces everywhere , or tolerates nowhere . 
This is equally applicable to the family , as to all aristocracies which have a head . 
He is listened to with deference , he is addressed with respect , and the love which is felt for him is always tempered with fear . 
Perhaps the subdivision of estates which democracy brings with it contributes more than anything else to change the relations existing between a father and his children . 
That class makes its opinions preponderate as universally as its will , and even those who are most inclined to resist its commands are carried away in the end by its example . 
I have known eager opponents of democracy who allowed their children to address them with perfect colloquial equality . 
I know not , upon the whole , whether society loses by the change , but I am inclined to believe that man individually is a gainer by it . 
Nothing more is needed , in order to judge of the difference between the two states of society in this respect , than to peruse the family correspondence of aristocratic ages . 
The style is always correct , ceremonious , stiff , and so cold that the natural warmth of the heart can hardly be felt in the language . 
A similar revolution takes place in the mutual relations of children . 
In aristocratic families , as well as in aristocratic society , every place is marked out beforehand . 
Not only does the father occupy a separate rank , in which he enjoys extensive privileges , but even the children are not equal amongst themselves . 
The age and sex of each irrevocably determine his rank , and secure to him certain privileges most of these distinctions are abolished or diminished by democracy . 
Greatness and power are for him for them , mediocrity and dependence . 
The different members of an aristocratic family are therefore very closely bound together their interests are connected , their minds agree , but their hearts are seldom in harmony . 
Democracy also binds brothers to each other , but by very different means . 
Scarcely any opportunities occur to break the tie thus formed at the outset of life for their brotherhood brings them daily together , without embarrassing them . 
It is not , then , by interest , but by common associations and by the free sympathy of opinion and of taste , that democracy unites brothers to each other . 
It divides their inheritance , but it allows their hearts and minds to mingle together . 
The remarks I have made on filial love and fraternal affection are applicable to all the passions which emanate spontaneously from human nature itself . 
If a certain mode of thought or feeling is the result of some peculiar condition of life , when that condition is altered nothing whatever remains of the thought or feeling . 
Thus a law may bind two members of the community very closely to one another but that law being abolished , they stand asunder . 
Such , however , is not the case with those feelings which are natural to mankind . 
Perhaps it is not impossible to condense into a single proposition the whole meaning of this chapter , and of several others that preceded it . 
Democracy loosens social ties , but it draws the ties of nature more tight it brings kindred more closely together , whilst it places the various members of the community more widely apart . 
Consequently , whatever affects the condition of women , their habits and their opinions , has great political importance in my eyes . 
Amongst almost all Protestant nations young women are far more the mistresses of their own actions than they are in Catholic countries . 
It is rarely that an American woman at any age displays childish timidity or ignorance . 
Like the young women of Europe , she seeks to please , but she knows precisely the cost of pleasing . 
If she does not abandon herself to evil , at least she knows that it exists and she is remarkable rather for purity of manners than for chastity of mind . 
The Americans are more consistent . 
Instead , then , of inculcating mistrust of herself , they constantly seek to enhance their confidence in her own strength of character . 
As it is neither possible nor desirable to keep a young woman in perpetual or complete ignorance , they hasten to give her a precocious knowledge on all subjects . 
Although the Americans are a very religious people , they do not rely on religion alone to defend the virtue of woman they seek to arm her reason also . 
Society may be more tranquil and better regulated , but domestic life has often fewer charms . 
These , however , are secondary evils , which may be braved for the sake of higher interests . 
The former makes her father's house an abode of freedom and of pleasure the latter lives in the home of her husband as if it were a cloister . 
Thus in the United States the inexorable opinion of the public carefully circumscribes woman within the narrow circle of domestic interest and duties , and forbids her to step beyond it . 
It may be said that she has learned by the use of her independence to surrender it without a struggle and without a murmur when the time comes for making the sacrifice . 
But no American woman falls into the toils of matrimony as into a snare held out to her simplicity and ignorance . 
She has been taught beforehand what is expected of her , and voluntarily and freely does she enter upon this engagement . 
She supports her new condition with courage , because she chose it . 
As in America paternal discipline is very relaxed and the conjugal tie very strict , a young woman does not contract the latter without considerable circumspection and apprehension . 
Thus American women do not marry until their understandings are exercised and ripened whereas in other countries most women generally only begin to exercise and to ripen their understandings after marriage . 
As she clearly discerns beforehand the only road which can lead to domestic happiness , she enters upon it at once , and follows it to the end without seeking to turn back . 
In no country in the world are private fortunes more precarious than in the United States . 
It is not uncommon for the same man , in the course of his life , to rise and sink again through all the grades which lead from opulence to poverty . 
American women support these vicissitudes with calm and unquenchable energy it would seem that their desires contract , as easily as they expand , with their fortunes . 
Many of these men , who rush so boldly onwards in pursuit of wealth , were already in the enjoyment of a competency in their own part of the country . 
They take their wives along with them , and make them share the countless perils and privations which always attend the commencement of these expeditions . 
Fever , solitude , and a tedious life had not broken the springs of their courage . 
Their features were impaired and faded , but their looks were firm they appeared to be at once sad and resolute . 
I do not doubt that these young American women had amassed , in the education of their early years , that inward strength which they displayed under these circumstances . 
But I am not aware that this principle of the materialists is supported by facts . 
Although the travellers who have visited North America differ on a great number of points , they all agree in remarking that morals are far more strict there than elsewhere . 
It is evident that on this point the Americans are very superior to their progenitors the English . 
A superficial glance at the two nations will establish the fact . 
In England , as in all other countries of Europe , public malice is constantly attacking the frailties of women . 
Philosophers and statesmen are heard to deplore that morals are not sufficiently strict , and the literary productions of the country constantly lead one to suppose so . 
In America all books , novels not excepted , suppose women to be chaste , and no one thinks of relating affairs of gallantry . 
This reason appears to me to be the principle of equality and the institutions derived from it . 
Equality of conditions does not of itself engender regularity of morals , but it unquestionably facilitates and increases it . 
a a See Appendix T. Amongst aristocratic nations birth and fortune frequently make two such different beings of man and woman , that they can never be united to each other . 
Their passions draw them together , but the condition of society , and the notions suggested by it , prevent them from contracting a permanent and ostensible tie . 
The necessary consequence is a great number of transient and clandestine connections . 
Nature secretly avenges herself for the constraint imposed upon her by the laws of man . 
This is not so much the case when the equality of conditions has swept away all the imaginary , or the real , barriers which separated man from woman . 
The same cause operates , though more indirectly , on married life . 
Nothing better serves to justify an illicit passion , either to the minds of those who have conceived it or to the world which looks on , than compulsory or accidental marriages . 
The rigor of the Americans arises in part from this cause . 
b The literature of Europe sufficiently corroborates this remark . 
Although habitual tolerance has long since relaxed our morals , an author could hardly succeed in interesting us in the misfortunes of his characters , if he did not first palliate their faults . 
This artifice seldom fails the daily scenes we witness prepare us long beforehand to be indulgent . 
This is one of the causes to which must be attributed the small number of novels published in the United States . 
The very circumstances which render matrimonial fidelity more obligatory also render it more easy . 
In aristocratic countries the object of marriage is rather to unite property than persons hence the husband is sometimes at school and the wife at nurse when they are betrothed . 
It cannot be wondered at if the conjugal tie which holds the fortunes of the pair united allows their hearts to rove this is the natural result of the nature of the contract . 
Accident appeared to them to be a better guide than choice . 
Yet it was not very difficult to perceive that the examples which they witnessed did in fact prove nothing at all . 
But this is not all . 
When a man and woman are bent upon marriage in spite of the differences of an aristocratic state of society , the difficulties to be overcome are enormous . 
Not indeed that the equality of conditions can ever succeed in making men chaste , but it may impart a less dangerous character to their breaches of morality . 
Society is endangered not by the great profligacy of a few , but by laxity of morals amongst all . 
In the eyes of a legislator , prostitution is less to be dreaded than intrigue . 
Thus the principle of equality does not destroy the imagination , but lowers its flight to the level of the earth . 
I am aware that all this is only applicable in its full extent to America , and cannot at present be extended to Europe . 
In some places the very reverse may be detected some classes are more strict the general morality of the people appears to be more lax . 
I do not hesitate to make the remark , for I am as little disposed to flatter my contemporaries as to malign them . 
This fact must distress , but it ought not to surprise us . 
The propitious influence which a democratic state of society may exercise upon orderly habits , is one of those tendencies which can only be discovered after a time . 
If the equality of conditions is favorable to purity of morals , the social commotion by which conditions are rendered equal is adverse to it . 
In the last fifty years , during which France has been undergoing this transformation , that country has rarely had freedom , always disturbance . 
The violations of morality which the French frequently witness do not appear to me to have a permanent character and this is already betokened by some curious signs of the times . 
No one denies that the French aristocracy of the last century was extremely dissolute whereas established habits and ancient belief still preserved some respect for morality amongst the other classes of society . 
So that the same families which were most profligate fifty years ago are nowadays the most exemplary , and democracy seems only to have strengthened the morality of the aristocratic classes . 
There are people in Europe who , confounding together the different characteristics of the sexes , would make of man and woman beings not only equal but alike . 
It is not thus that the Americans understand that species of democratic equality which may be established between the sexes . 
No families are so poor as to form an exception to this rule . 
If on the one hand an American woman cannot escape from the quiet circle of domestic employments , on the other hand she is never forced to go beyond it . 
Nor have the Americans ever supposed that one consequence of democratic principles is the subversion of marital power , of the confusion of the natural authorities in families . 
They hold that every association must have a head in order to accomplish its object , and that the natural head of the conjugal association is man . 
In the United States men seldom compliment women , but they daily show how much they esteem them . 
women ultimately look upon themselves in the same light , and almost consider it as a privilege that they are entitled to show themselves futile , feeble , and timid . 
The women of America claim no such privileges . 
The Americans know not this iniquitous division of duties and rights amongst them the seducer is as much dishonored as his victim . 
In America a young unmarried woman may , alone and without fear , undertake a long journey . 
In France , where the same offence is visited with far milder penalties , it is frequently difficult to get a verdict from a jury against the prisoner . 
Is this a consequence of contempt of decency or contempt of women ? I cannot but believe that it is a contempt of one and of the other . 
Each of them is willing to acknowledge all his fellow citizens as his equals , but he will only receive a very limited number of them amongst his friends or his guests . 
This appears to me to be very natural . 
Amongst aristocratic nations the different classes are like vast chambers , out of which it is impossible to get , into which it is impossible to enter . 
The influence of the social and political state of a country upon manners is therefore deserving of serious examination . 
True dignity in manners consists in always taking one's proper station , neither too high nor too low and this is as much within the reach of a peasant as of a prince . 
This , however , is much more perceptible at the time when an aristocracy has just been overthrown than after it has long been destroyed . 
The existence of a former strict code of good breeding is still remembered , but what it contained or where it is to be found is already forgotten . 
This , however , is not the normal state of things . 
They are never perfectly alike , because they do not copy from the same pattern they are never very unlike , because their social condition is the same . 
At first sight a traveller would observe that the manners of all the Americans are exactly similar it is only upon close examination that the peculiarities in which they differ may be detected . 
Nothing is more prejudicial to democracy than its outward forms of behavior many men would willingly endure its vices , who cannot support its manners . 
I cannot , however , admit that there is nothing commendable in the manners of a democratic people . 
Amongst aristocratic nations , all who live within reach of the first class in society commonly strain to be like it , which gives rise to ridiculous and insipid imitations . 
As a democratic people does not possess any models of high breeding , at least it escapes the daily necessity of seeing wretched copies of them . 
In democracies manners are never so refined as amongst aristocratic nations , but on the other hand they are never so coarse . 
I have already observed that in democracies no such thing as a regular code of good breeding can be laid down this has some inconveniences and some advantages . 
Amongst a democratic people manners are neither so tutored nor so uniform , but they are frequently more sincere . 
They form , as it were , a light and loosely woven veil , through which the real feelings and private opinions of each individual are easily discernible . 
The form and the substance of human actions often , therefore , stand in closer relation and if the great picture of human life be less embellished , it is more true . 
A change in the state of society works this miracle , and a few generations suffice to consummate it . 
Too much importance should not be attached to this loss , but it may well be regretted . 
But though the manners of aristocracy did not constitute virtue , they sometimes embellish virtue itself . 
Those manners threw a pleasing illusory charm over human nature and though the picture was often a false one , it could not be viewed without a noble satisfaction . 
Nor have they a greater inclination for the intellectual and refined amusements of the aristocratic classes . 
They want something productive and substantial in their pleasures they want to mix actual fruition with their joy . 
They prefer to these frivolous delights those more serious and silent amusements which are like business , and which do not drive business wholly from their minds . 
He thus enjoys two pleasures he can go on thinking of his business , and he can get drunk decently by his own fireside . 
I thought that the English constituted the most serious nation on the face of the earth , but I have since seen the Americans and have changed my opinion . 
I believe the seriousness of the Americans arises partly from their pride . 
But I detect another more deep seated and powerful cause which instinctively produces amongst the Americans this astonishing gravity . 
Under a despotism communities give way at times to bursts of vehement joy but they are generally gloomy and moody , because they are afraid . 
This is more especially the case amongst those free nations which form democratic communities . 
Amongst such a people a serious demeanor ceases to be peculiar to certain men , and becomes a habit of the nation . 
No men are fonder of their own condition . 
Life would have no relish for them if they were delivered from the anxieties which harass them , and they show more attachment to their cares than aristocratic nations to their pleasures . 
I am next led to inquire how it is that these same democratic nations , which are so serious , sometimes act in so inconsiderate a manner . 
This contrast ought not to surprise us . 
There is one sort of ignorance which originates in extreme publicity . 
In despotic States men know not how to act , because they are told nothing in democratic nations they often act at random , because nothing is to be left untold . 
The former do not know the latter forget and the chief features of each picture are lost to them in a bewilderment of details . 
This is explained by what goes before . 
In democracies men are never stationary a thousand chances waft them to and fro , and their life is always the sport of unforeseen or extemporaneous circumstances . 
He therefore does everything in a hurry , he is always satisfied with pretty well , and never pauses more than an instant to consider what he has been doing . 
The habit of inattention must be considered as the greatest bane of the democratic character . 
The Americans in their intercourse with strangers appear impatient of the smallest censure and insatiable of praise . 
The most slender eulogium is acceptable to them the most exalted seldom contents them they unceasingly harass you to extort praise , and if you resist their entreaties they fall to praising themselves . 
It would seem as if , doubting their own merit , they wished to have it constantly exhibited before their eyes . 
Their vanity is not only greedy , but restless and jealous it will grant nothing , whilst it demands everything , but is ready to beg and to quarrel at the same time . 
If I say to an American that the country he lives in is a fine one , Ay , he replies , there is not its fellow in the world . 
If I applaud the freedom which its inhabitants enjoy , he answers , Freedom is a fine thing , but few nations are worthy to enjoy it . 
It is impossible to conceive a more troublesome or more garrulous patriotism it wearies even those who are disposed to respect it . 
a a See Appendix U. Such is not the case with the English . 
An Englishman calmly enjoys the real or imaginary advantages which in his opinion his country possesses . 
If he grants nothing to other nations , neither does he solicit anything for his own . 
It is remarkable that two nations , so recently sprung from the same stock , should be so opposite to one another in their manner of feeling and conversing . 
In aristocratic countries the great possess immense privileges , upon which their pride rests , without seeking to rely upon the lesser advantages which accrue to them . 
As these privileges came to them by inheritance , they regard them in some sort as a portion of themselves , or at least as a natural right inherent in their own persons . 
As at any instant these same advantages may be lost , their possessors are constantly on the alert , and make a point of showing that they still retain them . 
Men living in democracies love their country just as they love themselves , and they transfer the habits of their private vanity to their vanity as a nation . 
If national pride ever entered into the minds of courtiers , I do not question that they would display it in the same manner as the members of a democratic community . 
Fortunes , opinions , and laws are there in ceaseless variation it is as if immutable nature herself were mutable , such are the changes worked upon her by the hand of man . 
Yet in the end the sight of this excited community becomes monotonous , and after having watched the moving pageant for a time the spectator is tired of it . 
In democracies , on the contrary , all men are alike and do things pretty nearly alike . 
The aspect of American society is animated , because men and things are always changing but it is monotonous , because all these changes are alike . 
Men living in democratic ages have many passions , but most of their passions either end in the love of riches or proceed from it . 
The cause of this is , not that their souls are narrower , but that the importance of money is really greater at such times . 
The distinction originating in wealth is increased by the disappearance and diminution of all other distinctions . 
Amongst aristocratic nations money only reaches to a few points on the vast circle of man's desires in democracies it seems to lead to all . 
This perpetual recurrence of the same passion is monotonous the peculiar methods by which this passion seeks its own gratification are no less so . 
Although these pursuits often bring about great commotions and disasters , they cannot prosper without strictly regular habits and a long routine of petty uniform acts . 
The stronger the passion is , the more regular are these habits , and the more uniform are these acts . 
It may be said that it is the vehemence of their desires which makes the Americans so methodical it perturbs their minds , but it disciplines their lives . 
The remark I here apply to America may indeed be addressed to almost all our contemporaries . 
Variety is disappearing from the human race the same ways of acting , thinking , and feeling are to be met with all over the world . 
Thus they become more alike , even without having imitated each other . 
It often happens that these two rules differ they sometimes conflict but they are never either entirely identified or entirely annulled by one another . 
Some actions have been held to be at the same time virtuous and dishonorable a refusal to fight a duel is a case in point . 
a The word honor is not always used in the same sense either in French or English . 
I. It first signifies the dignity , glory , or reverence which a man receives from his kind and in this sense a man is said to acquire honor . 
Honor signifies the aggregate of those rules by the assistance of which this dignity , glory , or reverence is obtained . 
Thus we say that a man has always strictly obeyed the laws of honor or a man has violated his honor . 
In this chapter the word is always used in the latter sense . 
I think these peculiarities may be otherwise explained than by the mere caprices of certain individuals and nations , as has hitherto been the customary mode of reasoning on the subject . 
Honor is simply that peculiar rule , founded upon a peculiar state of society , by the application of which a people or a class allot praise or blame . 
Nothing is more unproductive to the mind than an abstract idea I therefore hasten to call in the aid of facts and examples to illustrate my meaning . 
I select the most extraordinary kind of honor which was ever known in the world , and that which we are best acquainted with , viz . 
, aristocratic honor springing out of feudal society . 
I shall explain it by means of the principle already laid down , and I shall explain the principle by means of the illustration . 
I take its existence as an established fact , and I am endeavoring to account for the peculiar view which it took of the greater part of human actions . 
When these different notions first arose , the nobility formed a distinct body amidst the people , which it commanded from the inaccessible heights where it was ensconced . 
To maintain this peculiar position , which constituted its strength , it not only required political privileges , but it required a standard of right and wrong for its own especial use . 
In some cases feudal honor enjoined revenge , and stigmatized the forgiveness of insults in others it imperiously commanded men to conquer their own passions , and imposed forgetfulness of self . 
These fantastical notions did not proceed exclusively from the caprices of those who entertained them . 
Such men would not hesitate to invert the natural order of the conscience in order to give those virtues precedence before all others . 
It may even be conceived that some of the more bold and brilliant vices would readily be set above the quiet , unpretending virtues . 
The very existence of such a class in society renders these things unavoidable . 
The nobles of the Middle Ages placed military courage foremost amongst virtues , and in lieu of many of them . 
This was again a peculiar opinion which arose necessarily from the peculiarity of the state of society . 
Such was the main principle the caprice of man was only to be traced in minuter details . 
Thus it was true to a certain extent to assert that the laws of honor were capricious but these caprices of honor were always confined within certain necessary limits . 
If I were to trace the notion of feudal honor into the domain of politics , I should not find it more difficult to explain its dictates . 
The state of society and the political institutions of the Middle Ages were such , that the supreme power of the nation never governed the community directly . 
Thus in feudal society the whole system of the commonwealth rested upon the sentiment of fidelity to the person of the lord to destroy that sentiment was to open the sluices of anarchy . 
The treachery of a vassal was branded with extraordinary severity by public opinion , and a name of peculiar infamy was invented for the offence which was called felony . 
b Feudal institutions concealed the country at large from men's sight , and rendered the love of it less necessary . 
The nation was forgotten in the passions which attached men to persons . 
Hence it was no part of the strict law of feudal honor to remain faithful to one's country . 
This may be clearly seen from the contrary judgments which European nations have passed upon the various events of their histories , according to the generations by which such judgments have been formed . 
b Even the word patrie was not used by the French writers until the sixteenth century . 
This is applicable to a certain extent to democratic communities as well as to others , as we shall now proceed to prove by the example of the Americans . 
They are like a religion which has still some temples left standing , though men have ceased to believe in it . 
But amidst these half obliterated notions of exotic honor , some new opinions have sprung up , which constitute what may be termed in our days American honor . 
I have shown how the Americans are constantly driven to engage in commerce and industry . 
Their origin , their social condition , their political institutions , and even the spot they inhabit , urge them irresistibly in this direction . 
This is the characteristic which most peculiarly distinguishes the American people from all others at the present time . 
c I speak here of the Americans inhabiting those States where slavery does not exist they alone can be said to present a complete picture of democratic society . 
The Americans make a no less arbitrary classification of men's vices . 
In the United States fortunes are lost and regained without difficulty the country is boundless , and its resources inexhaustible . 
The people have all the wants and cravings of a growing creature and whatever be their efforts , they are always surrounded by more than they can appropriate . 
It is not the ruin of a few individuals which may be soon repaired , but the inactivity and sloth of the community at large which would be fatal to such a people . 
Boldness of enterprise is the foremost cause of its rapid progress , its strength , and its greatness . 
But any bold speculation risks the fortune of the speculator and of all those who put their trust in him . 
The Americans , who make a virtue of commercial temerity , have no right in any case to brand with disgrace those who practise it . 
Hence arises the strange indulgence which is shown to bankrupts in the United States their honor does not suffer by such an accident . 
But these things are less incoherent than they seem to be . 
I have yet another characteristic point which may serve to place the idea of this chapter in stronger relief . 
I have sometimes met in America with young men of wealth , personally disinclined to all laborious exertion , but who had been compelled to embrace a profession . 
Their disposition and their fortune allowed them to remain without employment public opinion forbade it , too imperiously to be disobeyed . 
No one can fail to perceive that these opposite obligations are two different rules of conduct , both nevertheless originating in the notion of honor . 
What our forefathers designated as honor absolutely was in reality only one of its forms they gave a generic name to what was only a species . 
Honor therefore is to be found in democratic as well as in aristocratic ages , but it will not be difficult to show that it assumes a different aspect in the former . 
Not only are its injunctions different , but we shall shortly see that they are less numerous , less precise , and that its dictates are less rigorously obeyed . 
The position of a caste is always much more peculiar than that of a people . 
, whose object is to concentrate and to retain , exclusively and hereditarily , education , wealth , and power amongst its own members . 
The rules of honor will therefore always be less numerous amongst a people not divided into castes than amongst any other . 
Thus the laws of honor will be less peculiar and less multifarious amongst a democratic people than in an aristocracy . 
To this , other reasons may be added . 
Thus not only had the men of feudal times very extraordinary opinions in matters of honor , but each of those opinions was present to their minds under a clear and precise form . 
In such a country men have glimpses of the rules of honor , but they have seldom time to fix attention upon them . 
But even if society were motionless , it would still be difficult to determine the meaning which ought to be attached to the word honor . 
Such times are wretched , but they are of short duration . 
Public opinion , the natural and supreme interpreter of the laws of honor , not clearly discerning to which side censure or approval ought to lean , can only pronounce a hesitating judgment . 
Sometimes the opinion of the public may contradict itself more frequently it does not act , and lets things pass . 
The weakness of the sense of honor in democracies also arises from several other causes . 
In aristocratic countries , the same notions of honor are always entertained by only a few persons , always limited in number , often separated from the rest of their fellow citizens . 
a passion for complying with its dictates . 
This truth is extremely obvious in the old black letter lawbooks on the subject of trial by battel . 
The two things indeed originate from the same source , but the one is not derived from the other . 
Thus the notion of honor is not the stronger for being fantastical , but it is fantastical and strong from the selfsame cause . 
I shall therefore make one more attempt to illustrate it satisfactorily . 
Having reached this extreme point of the argument , I now return . 
No Americans are devoid of a yearning desire to rise but hardly any appear to entertain hopes of great magnitude , or to drive at very lofty aims . 
Nevertheless , I think that the principal cause which may be assigned to this fact is to be found in the social condition and democratic manners of the Americans . 
All revolutions enlarge the ambition of men this proposition is more peculiarly true of those revolutions which overthrow an aristocracy . 
In this first burst of triumph nothing seems impossible to anyone not only are desires boundless , but the power of satisfying them seems almost boundless , too . 
Thus at the moment when an aristocracy is dissolved , its spirit still pervades the mass of the community , and its tendencies are retained long after it has been defeated . 
Ambition is therefore always extremely great as long as a democratic revolution lasts , and it will remain so for some time after the revolution is consummated . 
The reminiscence of the extraordinary events which men have witnessed is not obliterated from their memory in a day . 
The passions which a revolution has roused do not disappear at its close . 
Thus amongst democratic nations ambition is ardent and continual , but its aim is not habitually lofty and life is generally spent in eagerly coveting small objects which are within reach . 
What chiefly diverts the men of democracies from lofty ambition is not the scantiness of their fortunes , but the vehemence of the exertions they daily make to improve them . 
They strain their faculties to the utmost to achieve paltry results , and this cannot fail speedily to limit their discernment and to circumscribe their powers . 
They might be much poorer and still be greater . 
The small number of opulent citizens who are to be found amidst a democracy do not constitute an exception to this rule . 
A man who raises himself by degrees to wealth and power , contracts , in the course of this protracted labor , habits of prudence and restraint which he cannot afterwards shake off . 
A man cannot enlarge his mind as he would his house . 
Those thirty years are commonly wanting to the ambitious characters of democracies . 
The principle of equality , which allows every man to arrive at everything , prevents all men from rapid advancement . 
In China , where the equality of conditions is exceedingly great and very ancient , no man passes from one public office to another without undergoing a probationary trial . 
A lofty ambition breathes with difficulty in such an atmosphere . 
Between them and the final object of their desires , they perceive a multitude of small intermediate impediments , which must be slowly surmounted this prospect wearies and discourages their ambition at once . 
They therefore give up hopes so doubtful and remote , to search nearer to themselves for less lofty and more easy enjoyments . 
Their horizon is not bounded by the laws but narrowed by themselves . 
In aristocracies the career of ambition is often wide , but its boundaries are determined . 
In democracies ambition commonly ranges in a narrower field , but if once it gets beyond that , hardly any limits can be assigned to it . 
This gives to great political ambition a character of revolutionary violence , which it seldom exhibits to an equal degree in aristocratic communities . 
I believe that ambitious men in democracies are less engrossed than any others with the interests and the judgment of posterity the present moment alone engages and absorbs them . 
They are more apt to complete a number of undertakings with rapidity than to raise lasting monuments of their achievements and they care much more for success than for fame . 
What they most ask of men is obedience what they most covet is empire . 
We should attempt to lay down certain extreme limits , which it should never be allowed to outstep but its range within those established limits should not be too much checked . 
I confess that I apprehend much less for democratic society from the boldness than from the mediocrity of desires . 
Moralists are constantly complaining that the ruling vice of the present time is pride . 
He willingly takes up with low desires , without daring to embark in lofty enterprises , of which he scarcely dreams . 
Thus , far from thinking that humility ought to be preached to our contemporaries , I would have endeavors made to give them a more enlarged idea of themselves and of their kind . 
Humility is unwholesome to them what they most want is , in my opinion , pride . 
I would willingly exchange several of our small virtues for this one vice . 
All that he asks of the State is not to be disturbed in his toil , and to be secure of his earnings . 
These opposite effects , originating in the same cause , deserve our passing notice . 
But I would observe , that a government which encourages this tendency risks its own tranquillity , and places its very existence in great jeopardy . 
Thus , when public employments afford the only outlet for ambition , the government necessarily meets with a permanent opposition at last for it is tasked to satisfy with limited means unlimited desires . 
It is very certain that of all people in the world the most difficult to restrain and to manage are a people of solicitants . 
a a As a matter of fact , more recent experience has shown that place hunting is quite as intense in the United States as in any country in Europe . 
It is regarded by the Americans themselves as one of the great evils of their social condition , and it powerfully affects their political institutions . 
But the American who seeks a place seeks not so much a means of subsistence as the distinction which office and public employment confer . 
In the absence of any true aristocracy , the public service creates a spurious one , which is as much an object of ambition as the distinctions of rank in aristocratic countries . 
Even after this great revolution is consummated , the revolutionary habits engendered by it may long be traced , and it will be followed by deep commotion . 
On this point reasoning may seem to lead to the same result as experience . 
Amongst a people whose ranks are nearly equal , no ostensible bond connects men together , or keeps them settled in their station . 
The same causes which make the members of the community independent of each other , continually impel them to new and restless desires , and constantly spur them onwards . 
Almost all the revolutions which have changed the aspect of nations have been made to consolidate or to destroy social inequality . 
Remove the secondary causes which have produced the great convulsions of the world , and you will almost always find the principle of inequality at the bottom . 
Either the poor have attempted to plunder the rich , or the rich to enslave the poor . 
Such men are the natural enemies of violent commotions their stillness keeps all beneath them and above them still , and secures the balance of the fabric of society . 
The same state of society which constantly prompts desires , restrains these desires within necessary limits it gives men more liberty of changing and less interest in change . 
Not only are the men of democracies not naturally desirous of revolutions , but they are afraid of them . 
The poor often care but little for what they possess , because they suffer much more from the want of what they have not , than they enjoy the little they have . 
But the men who have a competency , alike removed from opulence and from penury , attach an enormous value to their possessions . 
Every day increases the interest they take in it , by the constant cares which it occasions and they are the more attached to it by their continual exertions to increase the amount . 
The notion of surrendering the smallest part of it is insupportable to them , and they consider its total loss as the worst of misfortunes . 
Now these eager and apprehensive men of small property constitute the class which is constantly increased by the equality of conditions . 
Nothing is more opposed to revolutionary passions than these things . 
I know of nothing more opposite to revolutionary manners than commercial manners . 
Commerce is naturally adverse to all the violent passions it loves to temporize , takes delight in compromise , and studiously avoids irritation . 
It is patient , insinuating , flexible , and never has recourse to extreme measures until obliged by the most absolute necessity . 
Hence the former are much more alarmed at the symptoms of revolutionary commotion than the latter . 
Thus nations are less disposed to make revolutions in proportion as personal property is augmented and distributed amongst them , and as the number of those possessing it increases . 
Moreover , whatever profession men may embrace , and whatever species of property they may possess , one characteristic is common to them all . 
No one is fully contented with his present fortune all are perpetually striving in a thousand ways to improve it . 
This not only prevents men from making revolutions , but deters men from desiring them . 
Violent political passions have but little hold on those who have devoted all their faculties to the pursuit of their well being . 
The ardor which they display in small matters calms their zeal for momentous undertakings . 
From time to time indeed , enterprising and ambitious men will arise in democratic communities , whose unbounded aspirations cannot be contented by following the beaten track . 
Such men like revolutions and hail their approach but they have great difficulty in bringing them about , unless unwonted events come to their assistance . 
Not indeed that they will resist him openly , by well contrived schemes , or even by a premeditated plan of resistance . 
They will not struggle energetically against him , sometimes they will even applaud him but they do not follow him . 
With immense exertion he raises them for an instant , but they speedily escape from him , and fall back , as it were , by their own weight . 
He strains himself to rouse the indifferent and distracted multitude , and finds at last that he is reduced to impotence , not because he is conquered , but because he is alone . 
They are forever varying , altering , and restoring secondary matters but they carefully abstain from touching what is fundamental . 
They love change , but they dread revolutions . 
Although the Americans are constantly modifying or abrogating some of their laws , they by no means display revolutionary passions . 
I do not hesitate to say that most of the maxims commonly called democratic in France would be proscribed by the democracy of the United States . 
This may easily be understood in America men have the opinions and passions of democracy , in Europe we have still the passions and opinions of revolution . 
When social conditions are equal , every man is apt to live apart , centred in himself and forgetful of the public . 
In democratic communities revolutions are seldom desired except by a minority but a minority may sometimes effect them . 
I do not assert that democratic nations are secure from revolutions I merely say that the state of society in those nations does not lead to revolutions , but rather wards them off . 
I am well aware that it this respect public institutions may themselves do much they may encourage or repress the tendencies which originate in the state of society . 
The observations I have here made on events may also be applied in part to opinions . 
Two things are surprising in the United States the mutability of the greater part of human actions , and the singular stability of certain principles . 
Men are in constant motion the mind of man appears almost unmoved . 
When once an opinion has spread over the country and struck root there , it would seem that no power on earth is strong enough to eradicate it . 
I hear it said that it is in the nature and the habits of democracies to be constantly changing their opinions and feelings . 
But I saw nothing of the kind amongst the great democratic people which dwells upon the opposite shores of the Atlantic Ocean . 
What struck me in the United States was the difficulty in shaking the majority in an opinion once conceived , or of drawing it off from a leader once adopted . 
Neither speaking nor writing can accomplish it nothing but experience will avail , and even experience must be repeated . 
This is surprising at first sight , but a more attentive investigation explains the fact . 
The leading opinions of men become similar in proportion as their conditions assimilate such appears to me to be the general and permanent law the rest is casual and transient . 
When the conditions of men are almost equal , they do not easily allow themselves to be persuaded by each other . 
Men seldom take the opinion of their equal , or of a man like themselves , upon trust . 
It sometimes happens at such times that the human mind would willingly change its position but as nothing urges or guides it forwards , it oscillates to and fro without progressive motion . 
Under a system of castes generations succeed each other without altering men's positions some have nothing more , others nothing better , to hope for . 
The imagination slumbers amidst this universal silence and stillness , and the very idea of change fades from the human mind . 
When ranks have been abolished and social conditions are almost equalized , all men are in ceaseless excitement , but each of them stands alone , independent and weak . 
This latter state of things is excessively different from the former one yet it has one point of analogy great revolutions of the human mind seldom occur in it . 
It is at such times that great reformers start up , and new opinions suddenly change the face of the world . 
Even when the reliance of a democratic people has been won , it is still no easy matter to gain their attention . 
It is extremely difficult to obtain a hearing from men living in democracies , unless it be to speak to them of themselves . 
They do not attend to the things said to them , because they are always fully engrossed with the things they are doing . 
I would especially remark that they are not only employed , but that they are passionately devoted to their employments . 
They are always in action , and each of their actions absorbs their faculties the zeal which they display in business puts out the enthusiasm they might otherwise entertain for idea . 
Thus democratic nations have neither time nor taste to go in search of novel opinions . 
There are yet other and more cogent reasons which prevent any great change from being easily effected in the principles of a democratic people . 
I have already adverted to them at the commencement of this part of my work . 
The multitude requires no laws to coerce those who think not like itself public disapprobation is enough a sense of their loneliness and impotence overtakes them and drives them to despair . 
The majority do not need to constrain him they convince him . 
This circumstance is extraordinarily favorable to the stability of opinions . 
Time , events , or the unaided individual action of the mind , will sometimes undermine or destroy an opinion , without any outward sign of the change . 
In this state it will still continue to prevail . 
War is nevertheless an occurrence to which all nations are subject , democratic nations as well as others . 
Whatever taste they may have for peace , they must hold themselves in readiness to repel aggression , or in other words they must have an army . 
It is therefore of singular importance to inquire what are the natural propensities of the men of whom these armies are composed . 
In aristocratic armies , the private soldier's ambition is therefore circumscribed within very narrow limits . 
Nor has the ambition of the officer an unlimited range . 
There is , besides , a strong cause , which , in aristocracies , weakens the officer's desire of promotion . 
A nobleman who embraces the profession of arms follows it less from motives of ambition than from a sense of the duties imposed on him by his birth . 
In democratic armies all the soldiers may become officers , which makes the desire of promotion general , and immeasurably extends the bounds of military ambition . 
What was only an appendage to his position in aristocratic armies , has thus become the main point , the basis of his whole condition . 
Under the old French monarchy officers were always called by their titles of nobility they are now always called by the title of their military rank . 
This little change in the forms of language suffices to show that a great revolution has taken place in the constitution of society and in that of the army . 
In democratic armies the desire of advancement is almost universal it is ardent , tenacious , perpetual it is strengthened by all other desires , and only extinguished with life itself . 
But it is easy to see , that of all armies in the world , those in which advancement must be slowest in time of peace are the armies of democratic countries . 
Thus the desire of advancement is greater , and the opportunities of advancement fewer , there than elsewhere . 
In either case the inquietude of the heart is the same , the taste for enjoyment as insatiable , the ambition of success as great the means of gratifying it are alone different . 
These opposite tendencies of the nation and the army expose democratic communities to great dangers . 
The reverse of what takes place in aristocratic ages then occurs the men who enter the army are no longer those of the highest , but of the lowest rank . 
Military ambition is only indulged in when no other is possible . 
The composition of democratic armies makes this last mentioned danger much to be feared . 
In democratic communities almost every man has some property to preserve but democratic armies are generally led by men without property , most of whom have little to lose in civil broils . 
The bulk of the nation is naturally much more afraid of revolutions than in the ages of aristocracy , but the leaders of the army much less so . 
Nothing is so dangerous as an army amidst an unwarlike nation the excessive love of the whole community for quiet continually puts its constitution at the mercy of the soldiery . 
Military revolutions , which are scarcely ever to be apprehended in aristocracies , are always to be dreaded amongst democratic nations . 
These perils must be reckoned amongst the most formidable which beset their future fate , and the attention of statesmen should be sedulously applied to find a remedy for the evil . 
I speak no ill of war war almost always enlarges the mind of a people , and raises their character . 
War has great advantages , but we must not flatter ourselves that it can diminish the danger I have just pointed out . 
That peril is only suspended by it , to return more fiercely when the war is over for armies are much more impatient of peace after having tasted military exploits . 
War could only be a remedy for a people which should always be athirst for military glory . 
There are two things which a democratic people will always find very difficult to begin a war , and to end it . 
Again , if war has some peculiar advantages for democratic nations , on the other hand it exposes them to certain dangers which aristocracies have no cause to dread to an equal extent . 
I shall only point out two of these . 
Although war gratifies the army , it embarrasses and often exasperates that countless multitude of men whose minor passions every day require peace in order to be satisfied . 
Thus there is some risk of its causing , under another form , the disturbance it is intended to prevent . 
No protracted war can fail to endanger the freedom of a democratic country . 
If it lead not to despotism by sudden violence , it prepares men for it more gently by their habits . 
All those who seek to destroy the liberties of a democratic nation ought to know that war is the surest and the shortest means to accomplish it . 
This is the first axiom of the science . 
This affords temporary relief , but it plunges the country into deeper difficulties at some future period . 
But nothing is gained by increasing the army amongst a democratic people , because the number of aspirants always rises in exactly the same ratio as the army itself . 
Though these wants may not be very vast , they are perpetually recurring . 
I am of opinion that a restless and turbulent spirit is an evil inherent in the very constitution of democratic armies , and beyond hope of cure . 
The remedy for the vices of the army is not to be found in the army itself , but in the country . 
Democratic nations are naturally afraid of disturbance and of despotism the object is to turn these natural instincts into well digested , deliberate , and lasting tastes . 
Teach but the citizens to be educated , orderly , firm , and free , the soldiers will be disciplined and obedient . 
On the other hand , men living in democratic times seldom choose a military life . 
Democratic nations are therefore soon led to give up the system of voluntary recruiting for that of compulsory enlistment . 
The necessity of their social condition compels them to resort to the latter means , and it may easily be foreseen that they will all eventually adopt it . 
When military service is compulsory , the burden is indiscriminately and equally borne by the whole community . 
This is another necessary consequence of the social condition of these nations , and of their notions . 
But as military service is common to all the citizens , the evident consequence is that each of them remains but for a few years on active duty . 
Such men do not contract the wants , and only half partake in the passions , which that mode of life engenders . 
They adapt themselves to their military duties , but their minds are still attached to the interests and the duties which engaged them in civil life . 
They do not therefore imbibe the spirit of the army or rather , they infuse the spirit of the community at large into the army , and retain it there . 
Amongst democratic nations the private soldiers remain most like civilians upon them the habits of the nation have the firmest hold , and public opinion most influence . 
The reverse happens amongst aristocratic nations , where the soldiery have eventually nothing in common with their fellow citizens , and where they live amongst them as strangers , and often as enemies . 
Amongst democratic nations , the man who becomes an officer severs all the ties which bound him to civil life he leaves it forever he has no interest to resume it . 
There are , nevertheless , some causes which allay this restless and warlike spirit . 
Though ambition is universal and continual amongst democratic nations , we have seen that it is seldom great . 
A man who , being born in the lower classes of the community , has risen from the ranks to be an officer , has already taken a prodigious step . 
He has gained a footing in a sphere above that which he filled in civil life , and he has acquired rights which most democratic nations will ever consider as inalienable . 
a He is willing to pause after so great an effort , and to enjoy what he has won . 
The fear of risking what he has already obtained damps the desire of acquiring what he has not got . 
Having conquered the first and greatest impediment which opposed his advancement , he resigns himself with less impatience to the slowness of his progress . 
His ambition will be more and more cooled in proportion as the increasing distinction of his rank teaches him that he has more to put in jeopardy . 
If I am not mistaken , the least warlike , and also the least revolutionary part , of a democratic army , will always be its chief commanders . 
This class of non commissioned officers which have never acted a part in history until the present century , is henceforward destined , I think , to play one of some importance . 
In every democratic army the non commissioned officers will be the worst representatives of the pacific and orderly spirit of the country , and the private soldiers will be the best . 
In aristocracies the military profession , being a privileged career , is held in honor even in time of peace . 
Men of great talents , great attainments , and great ambition embrace it the army is in all respects on a level with the nation , and frequently above it . 
After a long peace and in democratic ages the periods of peace are long the army is always inferior to the country itself . 
In this state it is called into active service and until war has altered it , there is danger for the country as well as for the army . 
I have shown that in democratic armies , and in time of peace , the rule of seniority is the supreme and inflexible law of advancement . 
This is not only a consequence , as I have before observed , of the constitution of these armies , but of the constitution of the people , and it will always occur . 
The consequence of these two causes is , that when a democratic people goes to war after a long interval of peace all the leading officers of the army are old men . 
I speak not only of the generals , but of the non commissioned officers , who have most of them been stationary , or have only advanced step by step . 
After having devoted the most vigorous years of youth to the career of arms , they voluntarily retire , and spend at home the remainder of their maturer years . 
A long peace not only fills democratic armies with elderly officers , but it also gives to all the officers habits both of body and mind which render them unfit for actual service . 
a a See Appendix V. I have shown that in democratic armies , in time of peace , promotion is extremely slow . 
The officers at first support this state of things with impatience , they grow excited , restless , exasperated , but in the end most of them make up their minds to it . 
I have also shown that amongst democratic nations in time of peace the military profession is held in little honor and indifferently followed . 
But even if the influence of peace operated on the two kinds of armies in the same manner , the results would still be different . 
But when the officers of a democratic army have no longer the love of war and the ambition of arms , nothing whatever remains to them . 
War , after it has destroyed all modes of speculation , becomes itself the great and sole speculation , to which all the ardent and ambitious desires which equality engenders are exclusively directed . 
Hence it is that the selfsame democratic nations which are so reluctant to engage in hostilities , sometimes perform prodigious achievements when once they have taken the field . 
As the number of competitors for military honors is immense , and war drives every man to his proper level , great generals are always sure to spring up . 
A long war produces upon a democratic army the same effects that a revolution produces upon a people it breaks through regulations , and allows extraordinary men to rise above the common level . 
Those officers whose bodies and minds have grown old in peace , are removed , or superannuated , or they die . 
In their stead a host of young men are pressing on , whose frames are already hardened , whose desires are extended and inflamed by active service . 
The principle of equality opens the door of ambition to all , and death provides chances for ambition . 
Death is constantly thinning the ranks , making vacancies , closing and opening the career of arms . 
There is moreover a secret connection between the military character and the character of democracies , which war brings to light . 
The men of democracies are naturally passionately eager to acquire what they covet , and to enjoy it on easy conditions . 
They for the most part worship chance , and are much less afraid of death than of difficulty . 
This is a mistake , for there are two kinds of discipline , which it is important not to confound . 
The soldier is broken in to military discipline , as it were , before he enters the army or rather , military discipline is nothing but an enhancement of social servitude . 
A democratic people must despair of ever obtaining from soldiers that blind , minute , submissive , and invariable obedience which an aristocratic people may impose on them without difficulty . 
The discipline of an aristocratic army is apt to be relaxed in war , because that discipline is founded upon habits , and war disturbs those habits . 
The nations which have performed the greatest warlike achievements knew no other discipline than that which I speak of . 
Amongst the ancients none were admitted into the armies but freemen and citizens , who differed but little from one another , and were accustomed to treat each other as equals . 
The interests of all are so interlaced , their opinions and their wants so much alike , that none can remain quiet when the others stir . 
Wars therefore become more rare , but when they break out they spread over a larger field . 
Neighboring democratic nations not only become alike in some respects , but they eventually grow to resemble each other in almost all . 
b This similitude of nations has consequences of great importance in relation to war . 
The characteristics of individuals are very strongly marked . 
The characteristics of individuals are nearly obliterated . 
In the same ages , too , the manner of carrying on war is likewise altered by the same causes . 
To avoid offence , let us read public functionaries for slaves , and this important truth will be strictly applicable to our own time . 
A great aristocratic people cannot either conquer its neighbors , or be conquered by them , without great difficulty . 
War against an aristocracy may be compared to war in a mountainous country the defeated party has constant opportunities of rallying its forces to make a stand in a new position . 
I am aware that this danger may be lessened by the creation of provincial liberties , and consequently of provincial powers , but this remedy will always be insufficient . 
For after such a catastrophe , not only is the population unable to carry on hostilities , but it may be apprehended that they will not be inclined to attempt it . 
The destruction of private property is only occasionally resorted to for the purpose of attaining the latter object . 
It will always be extremely difficult to decide a democratic population to take up arms , when hostilities have reached its own territory . 
I can conceive nothing better prepared for subjection , in case of defeat , than a democratic people without free institutions . 
Napoleon , it is said , was the inventor of this new system but the invention of such a system did not depend on any individual man , whoever he might be . 
Napoleon was the first commander who marched at the head of an army from capital to capital , but the road was opened for him by the ruin of feudal society . 
I shall add but a few words on civil wars , for fear of exhausting the patience of the reader . 
Most of the remarks which I have made respecting foreign wars are applicable a fortiori to civil wars . 
None but the most adventurous members of the community consent to run into such risks the bulk of the population remains motionless . 
An army constitutes a small community , very closely united together , endowed with great powers of vitality , and able to supply its own wants for some time . 
It may therefore be admitted as a general truth , that in ages of equality civil wars will become much less frequent and less protracted . 
Men living at such times have a natural bias to free institutions . 
I am , however , persuaded that anarchy is not the principal evil which democratic ages have to fear , but the least . 
For myself , I am so far from urging as a reproach to the principle of equality that it renders men untractable , that this very circumstance principally calls forth my approbation . 
Moreover in politics , as well as in philosophy and in religion , the intellect of democratic nations is peculiarly open to simple and general notions . 
Complicated systems are repugnant to it , and its favorite conception is that of a great nation composed of citizens all resembling the same pattern , and all governed by a single power . 
These contrary tendencies of opinion ultimately turn on either side to such blind instincts and such ungovernable habits that they still direct the actions of men , in spite of particular exceptions . 
These same opinions are more and more diffused in Europe they even insinuate themselves amongst those nations which most vehemently reject the principle of the sovereignty of the people . 
Such nations assign a different origin to the supreme power , but they ascribe to that power the same characteristics . 
In France , where the revolution of which I am speaking has gone further than in any other European country , these opinions have got complete hold of the public mind . 
If we listen attentively to the language of the various parties in France , we shall find that there is not one which has not adopted them . 
Most of these parties censure the conduct of the government , but they all hold that the government ought perpetually to act and interfere in everything that is done . 
Even those which are most at variance are nevertheless agreed upon this head . 
They recur even in the wildest visions of political regeneration the human mind pursues them in its dreams . 
If these notions spontaneously arise in the minds of private individuals , they suggest themselves still more forcibly to the minds of princes . 
The notion they all form of government is that of a sole , simple , providential , and creative power . 
All secondary opinions in politics are unsettled this one remains fixed , invariable , and consistent . 
It originates therefore in no caprice of the human intellect , but it is a necessary condition of the present state of mankind . 
This may be demonstrated in a few words , as the greater part of the reasons , to which the fact may be attributed , have been previously stated . 
I had occasion to point this out at considerable length in treating of individualism . 
Not only are they naturally wanting in a taste for public business , but they have frequently no time to attend to it . 
Private life is so busy in democratic periods , so excited , so full of wishes and of work , that hardly any energy or leisure remains to each individual for public life . 
I am the last man to contend that these propensities are unconquerable , since my chief object in writing this book has been to combat them . 
I only maintain that at the present day a secret power is fostering them in the human heart , and that if they are not checked they will wholly overgrow it . 
The love of public tranquillity is frequently the only passion which these nations retain , and it becomes more active and powerful amongst them in proportion as all other passions droop and die . 
These two conditions , which must never be either separately considered or confounded together , inspire the citizen of a democratic country with very contrary propensities . 
In this predicament he naturally turns his eyes to that imposing power which alone rises above the level of universal depression . 
Of that power his wants and especially his desires continually remind him , until he ultimately views it as the sole and necessary support of his own weakness . 
b In democratic communities nothing but the central power has any stability in its position or any permanence in its undertakings . 
All the members of society are in ceaseless stir and transformation . 
It frequently happens that the members of the community promote the influence of the central power without intending it . 
Democratic ages are periods of experiment , innovation , and adventure . 
At such times there are always a multitude of men engaged in difficult or novel undertakings , which they follow alone , without caring for their fellowmen . 
Thus a democratic government increases its power simply by the fact of its permanence . 
I have already given the reason of this phenomenon . 
Hence it is natural that the love of equality should constantly increase together with equality itself , and that it should grow by what it feeds upon . 
Every central power which follows its natural tendencies courts and encourages the principle of equality for equality singularly facilitates , extends , and secures the influence of a central power . 
Democratic nations often hate those in whose hands the central power is vested but they always love that power itself . 
Thus , by two separate paths , I have reached the same conclusion . 
To governments of this kind the nations of our age are therefore tending . 
They are drawn thither by the natural inclination of mind and heart and in order to reach that result , it is enough that they do not check themselves in their course . 
They carried with them to America these free institutions and manly customs , and these institutions preserved them against the encroachments of the State . 
Thus amongst the Americans it is freedom which is old equality is of comparatively modern date . 
This is peculiarly applicable to the democratic nations which have witnessed the triumph of the principle of equality by means of a violent revolution . 
Thus the progress of centralization amongst a democratic people depends not only on the progress of equality , but on the manner in which this equality has been established . 
I venture to predict that a time will come when the very reverse will happen . 
The example of the Americans completely demonstrates the fact . 
If at all times education enables men to defend their independence , this is most especially true in democratic ages . 
When all men are alike , it is easy to found a sole and all powerful government , by the aid of mere instinct . 
Aristocratic nations , however unenlightened they may be , never afford the same spectacle , because in them instruction is nearly equally diffused between the monarch and the leading members of the community . 
Hence it is chiefly in war that nations desire and frequently require to increase the powers of the central government . 
The love of public tranquillity becomes at such times an indiscriminating passion , and the members of the community are apt to conceive a most inordinate devotion to order . 
I have already examined several of the incidents which may concur to promote the centralization of power , but the principal cause still remains to be noticed . 
I do not mean that princes of aristocratic origin who live in democratic ages do not attempt to centralize I believe they apply themselves to that object as diligently as any others . 
In democratic communities the rule is that centralization must increase in proportion as the sovereign is less aristocratic . 
The reverse is the case when the scion of a feudal stock is placed at the head of a democratic people . 
Thus the science of despotism , which was once so complex , is simplified , and reduced as it were to a single principle . 
It would seem as if every step they make towards equality brings them nearer to despotism . 
And indeed if we do but cast our looks around , we shall be convinced that such is the fact . 
During the aristocratic ages which preceded the present time , the sovereigns of Europe had been deprived of , or had relinquished , many of the rights inherent in their power . 
I am far from blaming this concentration of power , I simply point it out . 
At the same period a great number of secondary powers existed in Europe , which represented local interests and administered local affairs . 
Most of these local authorities have already disappeared all are speedily tending to disappear , or to fall into the most complete dependence . 
The local privileges which the French did not abolish in the countries they conquered , have finally succumbed to the policy of the princes who conquered the French . 
Those princes rejected all the innovations of the French Revolution except centralization that is the only principle they consented to receive from such a source . 
Everywhere the State acquires more and more direct control over the humblest members of the community , and a more exclusive power of governing each of them in his smallest concerns . 
Education , as well as charity , is become in most countries at the present day a national concern . 
Uniformity prevails in the courses of public instruction as in everything else diversity , as well as freedom , is disappearing day by day . 
b a This gradual weakening of individuals in relation to society at large may be traced in a thousand ways . 
I shall select from amongst these examples one derived from the law of wills . 
b In proportion as the duties of the central power are augmented , the number of public officers by whom that power is represented must increase also . 
They form a nation in each nation and as they share the stability of the government , they more and more fill up the place of an aristocracy . 
But this is as yet only one side of the picture . 
The democratic nations of our time lean to the opposite extreme . 
Under the same circumstances which formerly compelled a prince to put on a new tax , he now has recourse to a loan . 
Thus the State gradually becomes the debtor of most of the wealthier members of the community , and centralizes the largest amounts of capital in its own hands . 
Small capital is drawn into its keeping by another method . 
These savings are daily producing an infinite number of small capitals , the slow and gradual produce of labor , which are always increasing . 
But the greater part of this money would be unproductive if it remained scattered in the hands of its owners . 
This circumstance has given rise to a philanthropic institution , which will soon become , if I am not mistaken , one of our most important political institutions . 
Some charitable persons conceived the notion of collecting the savings of the poor and placing them out at interest . 
Thus the State draws to itself the wealth of the rich by loans , and has the poor man's mite at its disposal in the savings banks . 
c On the one hand the taste for worldly welfare is perpetually increasing , and on the other the government gets more and more complete possession of the sources of that welfare . 
From day to day the princes of Europe hold their subordinate officers under stricter control , and they invent new methods for guiding them more closely , and inspecting them with less trouble . 
The government centralizes its agency whilst it increases its prerogative hence a twofold increase of strength . 
In examining the ancient constitution of the judicial power , amongst most European nations , two things strike the mind the independence of that power , and the extent of its functions . 
Not only did the courts of justice decide almost all differences between private persons , but in very many cases they acted as arbiters between private persons and the State . 
I do not here allude to the political and administrative offices which courts of judicature had in some countries usurped , but the judicial office common to them all . 
The elder judicial power retains its independence , but its jurisdiction is narrowed and there is a growing tendency to reduce it to be exclusively the arbiter between private interests . 
The number of these special courts of justice is continually increasing , and their functions increase likewise . 
Thus the government is more and more absolved from the necessity of subjecting its policy and its rights to the sanction of another power . 
The State is not satisfied with drawing all concerns to itself , but it acquires an ever increasing power of deciding on them all without restriction and without appeal . 
d d A strange sophism has been made on this head in France . 
Manufactures generally collect a multitude of men of the same spot , amongst whom new and complex relations spring up . 
These men are exposed by their calling to great and sudden alternations of plenty and want , during which public tranquillity is endangered . 
It may also happen that these employments sacrifice the health , and even the life , of those who gain by them , or of those who live by them . 
This is a truth of general application what follows more especially concerns the nations of Europe . 
These notions and these precedents remain unchanged , because they are old , and also because they happen to be in perfect accordance with the new notions and general habits of our contemporaries . 
Manufacturing property then does not extend its rights in the same ratio as its importance . 
e I shall quote a few facts in corroboration of this remark . 
Thus mines , which were private property , liable to the same obligations and sheltered by the same guarantees as all other landed property , have fallen under the control of the State . 
Thus , in every kingdom , the ruler becomes the principal manufacturer he collects and retains in his service a vast number of engineers , architects , mechanics , and handicraftsmen . 
Not only is he the principal manufacturer , but he tends more and more to become the chief , or rather the master of all other manufacturers . 
As private persons become more powerless by becoming more equal , they can effect nothing in manufactures without combination but the government naturally seeks to place these combinations under its own control . 
Rulers are the more apt to follow this line of policy , as their own inclinations invite them to it . 
Amongst all European nations there are some kinds of associations which cannot be formed until the State has examined their by laws , and authorized their existence . 
In several others , attempts are made to extend this rule to all associations the consequences of such a policy , if it were successful , may easily be foreseen . 
Governments thus appropriate to themselves , and convert to their own purposes , the greater part of this new power which manufacturing interests have in our time brought into the world . 
Manufacturers govern us they govern manufactures . 
I attach so much importance to all that I have just been saying , that I am tormented by the fear of having impaired my meaning in seeking to render it more clear . 
He will perceive that for the last half century , centralization has everywhere been growing up in a thousand different ways . 
Wars , revolutions , conquests , have served to promote it all men have labored to increase it . 
This instinctive centralization has been the only settled point amidst the extreme mutability of their lives and of their thoughts . 
If the reader , after having investigated these details of human affairs , will seek to survey the wide prospect as a whole , he will be struck by the result . 
To make the novel wants and interests , which the growing principle of equality introduced , preponderate in government , our contemporaries had to overturn or to coerce the established powers . 
This led them to make revolutions , and breathed into many of them , that fierce love of disturbance and independence , which all revolutions , whatever be their object , always engender . 
Hence proceeded the two fold contrary tendencies which I have just pointed out . 
For myself , I confess that I put no trust in the spirit of freedom which appears to animate my contemporaries . 
This led me to think that the nations of Christendom would perhaps eventually undergo some sort of oppression like that which hung over several of the nations of the ancient world . 
A more accurate examination of the subject , and five years of further meditations , have not diminished my apprehensions , but they have changed the object of them . 
But this same principle of equality which facilitates despotism , tempers its rigor . 
We have seen how the manners of society become more humane and gentle in proportion as men become more equal and alike . 
When no member of the community has much power or much wealth , tyranny is , as it were , without opportunities and a field of action . 
As all fortunes are scanty , the passions of men are naturally circumscribed their imagination limited , their pleasures simple . 
This universal moderation moderates the sovereign himself , and checks within certain limits the inordinate extent of his desires . 
Democratic governments may become violent and even cruel at certain periods of extreme effervescence or of great danger but these crises will be rare and brief . 
a See Appendix Y. I seek to trace the novel features under which despotism may appear in the world . 
The first thing that strikes the observation is an innumerable multitude of men all equal and alike , incessantly endeavoring to procure the petty and paltry pleasures with which they glut their lives . 
Above this race of men stands an immense and tutelary power , which takes upon itself alone to secure their gratifications , and to watch over their fate . 
That power is absolute , minute , regular , provident , and mild . 
The principle of equality has prepared men for these things it has predisposed men to endure them , and oftentimes to look on them as benefits . 
After having thus successively taken each member of the community in its powerful grasp , and fashioned them at will , the supreme power then extends its arm over the whole community . 
They devise a sole , tutelary , and all powerful form of government , but elected by the people . 
They combine the principle of centralization and that of popular sovereignty this gives them a respite they console themselves for being in tutelage by the reflection that they have chosen their own guardians . 
By this system the people shake off their state of dependence just long enough to select their master , and then relapse into it again . 
This does not satisfy me the nature of him I am to obey signifies less to me than the fact of extorted obedience . 
Of all the forms which democratic despotism could assume , the latter would assuredly be the worst . 
To create a representation of the people in every centralized country , is therefore , to diminish the evil which extreme centralization may produce , but not to get rid of it . 
I admit that by this means room is left for the intervention of individuals in the more important affairs but it is not the less suppressed in the smaller and more private ones . 
It must not be forgotten that it is especially dangerous to enslave men in the minor details of life . 
Subjection in minor affairs breaks out every day , and is felt by the whole community indiscriminately . 
It does not drive men to resistance , but it crosses them at every turn , till they are led to surrender the exercise of their will . 
b I add that they will soon become incapable of exercising the great and only privilege which remains to them . 
The democratic nations which have introduced freedom into their political constitution , at the very time when they were augmenting the despotism of their administrative constitution , have been led into strange paradoxes . 
A constitution , which should be republican in its head and ultra monarchical in all its other parts , has ever appeared to me to be a short lived monster . 
Despotism therefore appears to me peculiarly to be dreaded in democratic ages . 
I should have loved freedom , I believe , at all times , but in the time in which we live I am ready to worship it . 
Thus the question is not how to reconstruct aristocratic society , but how to make liberty proceed out of that democratic state of society in which God has placed us . 
Society at large is naturally stronger and more active , individuals more subordinate and weak the former does more , the latter less and this is inevitably the case . 
The government could not make or unmake them in an instant , at pleasure , nor bend them in strict uniformity to its slightest caprice this was an additional guarantee of private independence . 
I readily admit that recourse cannot be had to the same means at the present time but I discover certain democratic expedients which may be substituted for them . 
Election is a democratic expedient which insures the independence of the public officer in relation to the government , as much and even more than hereditary rank can insure it amongst aristocratic nations . 
I am very well aware that democratic countries contain no such persons naturally but something analogous to them may be created by artificial means . 
By this means many of the greatest political advantages of aristocracy would be obtained without its injustice or its dangers . 
In periods of aristocracy every man is always bound so closely to many of his fellow citizens , that he cannot be assailed without their coming to his assistance . 
Thus the liberty of the press is infinitely more valuable amongst democratic nations than amongst all others it is the only cure for the evils which equality may produce . 
Equality sets men apart and weakens them but the press places a powerful weapon within every man's reach , which the weakest and loneliest of them all may use . 
Equality deprives a man of the support of his connections but the press enables him to summon all his fellow countrymen and all his fellow men to his assistance . 
Printing has accelerated the progress of equality , and it is also one of its best correctives . 
I think that men living in aristocracies may , strictly speaking , do without the liberty of the press but such is not the case with those who live in democratic countries . 
To protect their personal independence I trust not to great political assemblies , to parliamentary privilege , or to the assertion of popular sovereignty . 
Something analogous may be said of the judicial power . 
Equality awakens in men several propensities extremely dangerous to freedom , to which the attention of the legislator ought constantly to be directed . 
I shall only remind the reader of the most important amongst them . 
Men living in democratic ages do not readily comprehend the utility of forms they feel an instinctive contempt for them I have elsewhere shown for what reasons . 
This same temper , carried with them into political life , renders them hostile to forms , which perpetually retard or arrest them in some of their projects . 
Forms become more necessary in proportion as the government becomes more active and more powerful , whilst private persons are becoming more indolent and more feeble . 
Thus democratic nations naturally stand more in need of forms than other nations , and they naturally respect them less . 
This deserves most serious attention . 
In aristocracies the observance of forms was superstitious amongst us they ought to be kept with a deliberate and enlightened deference . 
Another tendency , which is extremely natural to democratic nations and extremely dangerous , is that which leads them ta despise and undervalue the rights of private persons . 
Thus they naturally conceive a contempt for forms which daily prove ineffectual and they do not support without impatience the dominion of rules which they have so often seen infringed . 
In the ages of aristocracy which preceded our own , there were private persons of great power , and a social authority of extreme weakness . 
The outline of society itself was not easily discernible , and constantly confounded with the different powers by which the community was ruled . 
Other perils and other cares await the men of our age . 
In olden society everything was different unity and uniformity were nowhere to be met with . 
In modern society everything threatens to become so much alike , that the peculiar characteristics of each individual will soon be entirely lost in the general aspect of the world . 
The political world is metamorphosed new remedies must henceforth be sought for new disorders . 
I trace amongst our contemporaries two contrary notions which are equally injurious . 
One set of men can perceive nothing in the principle of equality but the anarchical tendencies which it engenders they dread their own free agency they fear themselves . 
They shape their souls beforehand to this necessary condition and , despairing of remaining free , they already do obeisance in their hearts to the master who is soon to appear . 
The former abandon freedom , because they think it dangerous the latter , because they hold it to be impossible . 
If I had entertained the latter conviction , I should not have written this book , but I should have confined myself to deploring in secret the destiny of mankind . 
They are fond of power but they are prone to despise and hate those who wield it , and they easily elude its grasp by their own mobility and insignificance . 
The society of the modern world which I have sought to delineate , and which I seek to judge , has but just come into existence . 
Nevertheless , in the midst of a prospect so wide , so novel and so confused , some of the more prominent characteristics may already be discerned and pointed out . 
The sentiment of ambition is universal , but the scope of ambition is seldom vast . 
Each individual stands apart in solitary weakness but society at large is active , provident , and powerful the performances of private persons are insignificant , those of the State immense . 
There is little energy of character but manners are mild , and laws humane . 
Human existence becomes longer , and property more secure life is not adorned with brilliant trophies , but it is extremely easy and tranquil . 
Few pleasures are either very refined or very coarse and highly polished manners are as uncommon as great brutality of tastes . 
Neither men of great learning , nor extremely ignorant communities , are to be met with genius becomes more rare , information more diffused . 
The human mind is impelled by the small efforts of all mankind combined together , not by the strenuous activity of certain men . 
There is less perfection , but more abundance , in all the productions of the arts . 
The ties of race , of rank , and of country are relaxed the great bond of humanity is strengthened . 
Such is not the case with that almighty and eternal Being whose gaze necessarily includes the whole of created things , and who surveys distinctly , though at once , mankind and man . 
What appears to me to be man's decline , is to His eye advancement what afflicts me is acceptable to Him . 
A state of equality is perhaps less elevated , but it is more just and its justice constitutes its greatness and its beauty . 
I would strive then to raise myself to this point of the divine contemplation , and thence to view and to judge the concerns of men . 
They are like two distinct orders of human beings , each of which has its own merits and defects , its own advantages and its own evils . 
But as yet these things are imperfectly understood . 
I apprehend that such men are wasting their time and their strength in virtuous but unprofitable efforts . 
The object is not to retain the peculiar advantages which the inequality of conditions bestows upon mankind , but to secure the new benefits which equality may supply . 
We have not to seek to make ourselves like our progenitors , but to strive to work out that species of greatness and happiness which is our own . 
Such principles are false and cowardly such principles can never produce aught but feeble men and pusillanimous nations . 
Providence has not created mankind entirely independent or entirely free . 
, beginning from the Red River and ending at the River Platte . 
In summer , these plains are quite destitute of water , and nothing is to be seen on them but herds of buffaloes and wild horses . 
Some hordes of Indians are also found there , but in no great numbers . 
Major Long was told that in travelling northwards from the River Platte you find the same desert lying constantly on the left but he was unable to ascertain the truth of this report . 
a The th degree of longitude , according to the meridian of Washington , agrees very nearly with the th degree on the meridian of Greenwich . 
is a creeper of enormous and rapid growth , which climbs from tree to tree , and sometimes covers more than half a league . 
For it is generally the union of several languages into one which produces grammatical irregularities . 
These languages were found to be very rich , and great pains had been taken at their formation to render them agreeable to the ear . 
The Indians have given a most surprising extension to this power , so as to arrive at the means of connecting a great number of ideas with a single term . 
Thus in one word the Indian woman has expressed Thy pretty little paw . 
Take another example of the felicity with which the savages of America have composed their words . 
A young man of Delaware is called pilape . 
This word is formed from pilsit , chaste , innocent and lenape , man viz . 
, man in his purity and innocence . 
This facility of combining words is most remarkable in the strange formation of their verbs . 
The most complex action is often expressed by a single verb , which serves to convey all the shades of an idea by the modification of its construction . 
Those who may wish to examine more in detail this subject , which I have only glanced at superficially , should read . 
The correspondence of Mr. Duponceau and the Rev . 
The Grammar of the Delaware or the Lenape Language , by Geiberger , and the preface of Mr. Duponceau . 
All these are in the same collection , vol . 
An excellent account of these works , which is at the end of the sixth volume of the American Encyclopaedia . 
Appendix D See in Charlevoix , vol . 
, the history of the first war which the French inhabitants of Canada carried on , in , against the Iroquois . 
The latter , armed with bows and arrows , offered a desperate resistance to the French and their allies . 
, thus describes the first torture of which Champlain was an eyewitness , and the return of the Hurons into their own village . 
At this sight , the women swam to the canoes , where they received the bloody scalps from the hands of their husbands , and tied them round their necks . 
Champlain lived a whole winter quite alone among these barbarians , without being under any alarm for his person or property . 
Public houses shall not entertain any other than strangers or lodgers , under penalty of five shillings for every person found drinking and abiding therein . 
Any person in health , who , without sufficient reason , shall omit to worship God in public during three months , shall be condemned to a fine of ten shillings . 
Any person guilty of misbehaviour in a place of public worship , shall be fined from five to forty shillings . 
These laws are to be enforced by the tything men of each township , who have authority to visit public houses on the Sunday . 
The innkeeper who shall refuse them admittance , shall be fined forty shillings for such offence . 
If the reason given by the traveller be not deemed by the tything man sufficient , he may bring the traveller before the justice of the peace of the district . 
On March , , a new law increased the amount of fines , half of which was to be given to the informer . 
On February , , a new law confirmed these same measures . 
Similar enactments exist in the laws of the State of New York , revised in and . 
In these it is declared that no one is allowed on the Sabbath to sport , to fish , to play at games , or to frequent houses where liquor is sold . 
No one can travel , except in case of necessity . 
And this is not the only trace which the religious strictness and austere manners of the first emigrants have left behind them in the American laws . 
In the Revised Statutes of the State of New York , vol . 
The laws we quote from are of recent date but they are unintelligible without going back to the very origin of the colonies . 
I have no doubt that in our days the penal part of these laws is very rarely applied . 
Laws preserve their inflexibility , long after the manners of a nation have yielded to the influence of time . 
It is still true , however , that nothing strikes a foreigner on his arrival in America more forcibly than the regard paid to the Sabbath . 
There is one , in particular , of the large American cities , in which all social movements begin to be suspended even on Saturday evening . 
Not only have all ceased to work , but they appear to have ceased to exist . 
Neither the movements of industry are heard , nor the accents of joy , nor even the confused murmur which arises from the midst of a great city . 
Chains are hung across the streets in the neighborhood of the churches the half closed shutters of the houses scarcely admit a ray of sun into the dwellings of the citizens . 
Now and then you perceive a solitary individual who glides silently along the deserted streets and lanes . 
Next day , at early dawn , the rolling of carriages , the noise of hammers , the cries of the population , begin to make themselves heard again . 
An eager crowd hastens towards the resort of commerce and industry everything around you bespeaks motion , bustle , hurry . 
A feverish activity succeeds to the lethargic stupor of yesterday you might almost suppose that they had but one day to acquire wealth and to enjoy it . 
Appendix F It is unnecessary for me to say , that in the chapter which has just been read , I have not had the intention of giving a history of America . 
I have therefore confined myself to the quotation of a few detached fragments . 
Amongst other authentic documents , we here find a great many relating to the affairs of New England and Virginia during this period . 
The second volume is almost entirely devoted to the acts of the Confederation of . 
This federal compact , which was entered into by the colonies of New England with the view of resisting the Indians , was the first instance of union afforded by the Anglo Americans . 
There were besides many other confederations of the same nature , before the famous one of , which brought about the independence of the colonies . 
Each colony has , besides , its own historic monuments , some of which are extremely curious beginning with Virginia , the State which was first peopled . 
The earliest historian of Virginia was its founder , Captain John Smith . 
The work is adorned with curious maps and engravings of the time when it appeared the narrative extends from the year to . 
Smith's work is highly and deservedly esteemed . 
This author throws most valuable light upon the state and condition of the Indians at the time when North America was first discovered . 
The second historian to consult is Beverley , who commences his narrative with the year , and ends it with . 
The first part of his book contains historical documents , properly so called , relative to the infancy of the colony . 
The second affords a most curious picture of the state of the Indians at this remote period . 
The third conveys very clear ideas concerning the manners , social conditions , laws , and political customs of the Virginians in the author's lifetime . 
Notwithstanding this colonial modesty , the author shows throughout his book the impatience with which he endures the supremacy of the mother country . 
In this work of Beverley are also found numerous traces of that spirit of civil liberty which animated the English colonies of America at the time when he wrote . 
He also shows the dissensions which existed among them , and retarded their independence . 
Beverley detests his Catholic neighbors of Maryland even more than he hates the English government his style is simple , his narrative interesting , and apparently trustworthy . 
I saw in America another work which ought to be consulted , entitled The History of Virginia , by William Stith . 
This book affords some curious details , but I thought it long and diffuse . 
The second part of Lawson's book is taken up with a description of the physical condition of Carolina , and its productions . 
In the third part , the author gives an interesting account of the manners , customs , and government of the Indians at that period . 
There is a good deal of talent and originality in this part of the work . 
Lawson concludes his history with a copy of the charter granted to the Carolinas in the reign of Charles II . 
The general tone of this work is light , and often licentious , forming a perfect contrast to the solemn style of the works published at the same period in New England . 
Lawson's history is extremely scarce in America , and cannot be procured in Europe . 
There is , however , a copy of it in the Royal Library at Paris . 
From the southern extremity of the United States , I pass at once to the northern limit as the intermediate space was not peopled till a later period . 
I must first point out a very curious compilation , entitled Collection of the Massachusetts Historical Society , printed for the first time at Boston in , and reprinted in . 
Among them are letters which have never been published , and authentic pieces which had been buried in provincial archives . 
The whole work of Gookin , concerning the Indians , is inserted there . 
This book is in octavo , and was reprinted at Boston in . 
The most valuable and important authority which exists upon the history of New England , is the work of the Rev . 
Cotton Mather , entitled Magnalia Christi Americana , or the Ecclesiastical History of New England , , vols . 
vo , reprinted at Hartford , United States , in . 
b The author divided his work into seven books . 
The first presents the history of the events which prepared and brought about the establishment of New England . 
The second contains the lives of the first governors and chief magistrates who presided over the country . 
The third is devoted to the lives and labors of the evangelical ministers who , during the same period , had the care of souls . 
In the fourth the author relates the institution and progress of the University of Cambridge . 
In the fifth he describes the principles and the discipline of the Church of New England . 
The sixth is taken up in retracing certain facts , which , in the opinion of Mather , prove the merciful interposition of Providence in behalf of the inhabitants of New England . 
Lastly , in the seventh , the author gives an account of the heresies and the troubles to which the Church of New England was exposed . 
Cotton Mather was an evangelical minister who was born at Boston , and passed his life there . 
His narratives are distinguished by the same ardor and religious zeal which led to the foundation of the colonies of New England . 
Traces of bad taste sometimes occur in his manner of writing but he interests , because he is full of enthusiasm . 
He is often intolerant , still oftener credulous , but he never betrays an intention to deceive . 
b A folio edition of this work was published in London in . 
Mather's work gives an admirable picture of the time and country which he describes . 
He proscribes with the same rigor all ornaments for the hair used by the female sex , as well as their custom of having the arms and neck uncovered . 
In another part of his work he relates several instances of witchcraft which had alarmed New England . 
It is plain that the visible action of the devil in the affairs of this world appeared to him an incontestable and evident fact . 
This work of Cotton Mather displays , in many places , the spirit of civil liberty and political independence which characterized the times in which he lived . 
Their principles respecting government are discoverable at every page . 
The history of Hutchinson , which I have several times quoted in the chapter to which this note relates , commences in the year , and ends in . 
Throughout the work there is a striking air of truth and the greatest simplicity of style it is full of minute details . 
The best history to consult concerning Connecticut is that of Benjamin Trumbull , entitled A Complete History of Connecticut , Civil and Ecclesiastical , , vols . 
vo , printed in at New Haven . 
This history contains a clear and calm account of all the events which happened in Connecticut during the period given in the title . 
The author drew from the best sources , and his narrative bears the stamp of truth . 
All that he says of the early days of Connecticut is extremely curious . 
See especially the Constitution of , vol . 
and also the Penal Laws of Connecticut , vol . 
The History of New Hampshire , by Jeremy Belknap , is a work held in merited estimation . 
It was printed at Boston in , in vols . 
The following curious quotation is given from a sermon delivered in It concerneth New England always to remember that they are a plantation religious , not a plantation of trade . 
The profession of the purity of doctrine , worship , and discipline , is written upon her forehead . 
Let merchants , and such as are increasing cent . 
, remember this , that worldly gain was not the end and design of the people of New England , but religion . 
And if any man among us make religion as twelve , and the world as thirteen , such an one hath not the spirit of a true New Englishman . 
Among the Central States which deserve our attention for their remote origin , New York and Pennsylvania are the foremost . 
The best history we have of the former is entitled A History of New York , by William Smith , printed at London in . 
Smith gives us important details of the wars between the French and English in America . 
His is the best account of the famous confederation of the Iroquois . 
vo , printed at Philadelphia in . 
I need not add that among the most important documents relating to this State are the works of Penn himself , and those of Franklin . 
From this order it was that the King usually chose his councillors of state . 
c c This passage is extracted and translated from M. Conseil's work upon the life of Jefferson , entitled Melanges Politiques et Philosophiques de Jefferson . 
In the United States , the principal clauses of the English law respecting descent have been universally rejected . 
The first rule that we follow , says Mr. Kent , touching inheritance , is the following If a man dies intestate , his property goes to his heirs in a direct line . 
If he has but one heir or heiress , he or she succeeds to the whole . 
If there are several heirs of the same degree , they divide the inheritance equally amongst them , without distinction of sex . 
This rule was prescribed for the first time in the State of New York by a statute of February , . 
It has since then been adopted in the Revised Statutes of the same State . 
At the present day this law holds good throughout the whole of the United States , with the exception of the State of Vermont , where the male heir inherits a double portion . 
Mr. Kent , in the same work , vol . 
, gives a historical account of American legislation on the subject of entail by this we learn that , previous to the Revolution , the colonies followed the English law of entail . 
Estates tail were abolished in Virginia in , on a motion of Mr. Jefferson . 
They were suppressed in New York in , and have since been abolished in North Carolina , Kentucky , Tennessee , Georgia , and Missouri . 
In Vermont , Indiana , Illinois , South Carolina , and Louisiana , entail was never introduced . 
Those States which thought proper to preserve the English law of entail , modified it in such a way as to deprive it of its most aristocratic tendencies . 
Our general principles on the subject of government , says Mr. Kent , tend to favor the free circulation of property . 
It cannot fail to strike the French reader who studies the law of inheritance , that on these questions the French legislation is infinitely more democratic even than the American . 
The French law obliges the testator to divide his property equally , or nearly so , among his heirs . 
Most of the American republics still admit of entails , under certain restrictions but the French law prohibits entail in all cases . 
If the social condition of the Americans is more democratic than that of the French , the laws of the latter are the most democratic of the two . 
This may be explained more easily than at first appears to be the case . 
In France , democracy is still occupied in the work of destruction in America , it reigns quietly over the ruins it has made . 
Appendix H Summary Of The Qualifications Of Voters In The United States As They Existed In All the States agree in granting the right of voting at the age of twenty one . 
In all of them it is necessary to have resided for a certain time in the district where the vote is given . 
This period varies from three months to two years . 
As to the qualification in the State of Massachusetts it is necessary to have an income of Pound or a capital of Pound . 
In Rhode Island , a man must possess landed property to the amount of . 
In Connecticut , he must have a property which gives an income of . 
A year of service in the militia also gives the elective privilege . 
In New Jersey , an elector must have a property of Pound a year . 
In South Carolina and Maryland , the elector must possess fifty acres of land . 
In Tennessee , he must possess some property . 
In Maine and New Hampshire any man can vote who is not on the pauper list . 
I believe there is no other State besides that of North Carolina in which different conditions are applied to the voting for the Senate and the electing the House of Representatives . 
The electors of the former , in this case , should possess in property fifty acres of land to vote for the latter , nothing more is required than to pay taxes . 
Appendix K It is incorrect to assert that centralization was produced by the French Revolution the revolution brought it to perfection , but did not create it . 
, printed at Brussels in . 
Nevertheless , your subjects , Sire , have been deprived of it and we cannot refrain from saying that in this respect your government has fallen into puerile extremes . 
Such are the means , Sire , which have been exerted to extinguish the municipal spirit in France and to stifle , if possible , the opinions of the citizens . 
The nation may be said to lie under an interdict , and to be in wardship under guardians . 
The fact is , that for several centuries past the central power of France has done everything it could to extend central administration it has acknowledged no other limits than its own strength . 
The same principle governed both , though its consequences were more or less remote . 
Appendix L The immutability of the constitution of France is a necessary consequence of the laws of that country . 
The individuals who regulated the consequences of the Revolution of followed his example they merely established the perpetuity of the law in favor of another family . 
The laws of , like those of , point out no way of changing the constitution and it is evident that the ordinary means of legislation are insufficient for this purpose . 
By destroying the charter , they destroy themselves . 
This is much more evident in the laws of than in those of . 
In , the royal prerogative took its stand above and beyond the constitution but in , it was avowedly created by , and dependent on , the constitution . 
These remarks are not applicable to England . 
Delolme says It is a fundamental principle with the English lawyers , that Parliament can do everything except making a woman a man , or a man a woman . 
, is so transcendent and absolute that it cannot be confined , either for causes or persons , within any bounds . 
And of this High Court , he adds , may be truly said , Si antiquitatem spectes , est vetustissima si dignitatem , est honoratissima si jurisdictionem , est capacissima . 
All mischiefs and grievances , operations and remedies , that transcend the ordinary course of the laws , are within the reach of this extraordinary tribunal . 
It can regulate or new model the succession to the Crown as was done in the reign of Henry VIII and William III . 
It can alter the established religion of the land as was done in a variety of instances in the reigns of King Henry VIII and his three children . 
Appendix N There is no question upon which the American constitutions agree more fully than upon that of political jurisdiction . 
Almost all the constitutions give the exclusive right of pronouncing sentence to the Senate , or to the Assembly which occupies its place . 
The only punishments which the political tribunals can inflict are removal , or the interdiction of public functions for the future . 
There is no other constitution but that of Virginia , which enables them to inflict every kind of punishment . 
, high treason , bribery , and other high crimes or offences . 
In the constitution of New Hampshire , corruption , intrigue , and maladministration . 
, crimes committed in the non performance of official duties . 
In the States of Illinois , Georgia , Maine , and Connecticut , no particular offences are specified . 
Maritime warfare only requires one species of effort . 
A commercial people which consents to furnish its government with the necessary funds , is sure to possess a fleet . 
And it is far easier to induce a nation to part with its money , almost unconsciously , than to reconcile it to sacrifices of men and personal efforts . 
Moreover , defeat by sea rarely compromises the existence or independence of the people which endures it . 
As for continental wars , it is evident that the nations of Europe cannot be formidable in this way to the American Union . 
It would be very difficult to transport and maintain in America more than , soldiers an army which may be considered to represent a nation of about , , of men . 
The most populous nation of Europe contending in this way against the Union , is in the position of a nation of , , of inhabitants at war with one of , , . 
Appendix P The first American journal appeared in April , , and was published at Boston . 
See Collection of the Historical Society of Massachusetts , vol . 
Consult the Legislative Documents of Massachusetts of January , . 
The laws of the States must therefore be examined for the theory of the formation of juries . 
See Story's Commentaries on the Constitution , B. iii . 
Sergeant's Constitutional Law , p . 
See also the Federal Laws of the years , , and , upon the subject . 
In America , all the citizens who exercise the elective franchise have the right of serving upon a jury . 
The names of the jurymen thus chosen are transmitted to the County Court and the jury who have to decide any affair are drawn by lot from the whole list of names . 
The Americans have contrived in every way to make the common people eligible to the jury , and to render the service as little onerous as possible . 
The sessions are held in the chief town of every county , and the jury are indemnified for their attendance either by the State or the parties concerned . 
They receive in general a dollar per day , besides their travelling expenses . 
In America , the being placed upon the jury is looked upon as a burden , but it is a burden which is very supportable . 
See Brevard's Digest of the Public Statute Law of South Carolina , vol . 
and The General Laws of Massachusetts , revised and published by authority of the Legislature , vol . 
and The Revised Statutes of the State of New York , vol . 
, , , The Statute Law of the State of Tennessee , vol . 
Acts of the State of Ohio , pp . 
and and Digeste general des Actes de la Legislature de la Louisiane . 
The defendant puts in a plea of incompetency on the part of the vendor this is the legal question to be resolved . 
But the jury do not enjoy the same character of infallibility in civil cases , according to the practice of the English courts , as they do in criminal cases . 
The judge may refuse to receive the verdict and even after the first trial has taken place , a second or new trial may be awarded by the Court . 
See Blackstone's Commentaries , book iii . 
This description has nothing to recommend it to the reader but its strict accuracy . 
Around these dry blocks , wheat , suckers of trees , and plants of every kind , grow and intertwine in all the luxuriance of wild , untutored nature . 
Amidst this vigorous and various vegetation stands the house of the pioneer , or , as they call it , the log house . 
As night was coming on , we determined to ask the master of the log house for a lodging . 
We entered the log house the inside is quite unlike that of the cottages of the peasantry of Europe it contains more than is superfluous , less than is necessary . 
The master of this dwelling has the strong angular features and lank limbs peculiar to the native of New England . 
When we questioned him in our turn , he gave us all the information we required he then attended sedulously , but without eagerness , to our personal wants . 
By the side of the hearth sits a woman with a baby on her lap she nods to us without disturbing herself . 
The house inhabited by these emigrants has no internal partition or loft . 
In the one chamber of which it consists , the whole family is gathered for the night . 
The dwelling is itself a little world an ark of civilization amidst an ocean of foliage a hundred steps beyond it the primeval forest spreads its shades , and solitude resumes its sway . 
Equality of conditions never engenders profligacy of morals , but it sometimes allows that profligacy to show itself . 
I look upon this state of public opinion as an indication , but not as a demonstration , of the absolute excellence of American laws . 
Look at England throughout the eighteenth century . 
Which was right ? the English people of the last century , or the English people of the present day ? The same thing has occurred in France . 
It is certain that during the reign of Louis XIV the great bulk of the nation was devotedly attached to the form of government which , at that time , governed the community . 
But it is a vast error to suppose that there was anything degraded in the character of the French of that age . 
There might be some sort of servitude in France at that time , but assuredly there was no servile spirit among the people . 
These very same forms of loyalty are now odious to the French people . 
The love which a people may show for its law proves only this that we should not be in too great a hurry to change them . 
Appendix W Men connect the greatness of their idea of unity with means , God with ends hence this idea of greatness , as men conceive it , leads us into infinite littleness . 
The human idea of unity is almost always barren the divine idea pregnant with abundant results . 
Men think they manifest their greatness by simplifying the means they use but it is the purpose of God which is simple his means are infinitely varied . 
It is a waste of time to attempt to prove to them that extreme centralization may be injurious to the State , since they are centralizing for their own benefit . 
I am persuaded that , in such a case , a sort of fusion would take place between the habits of official men and those of the military service . 
The administration would assume something of a military character , and the army some of the usages of the civil administration . 
Appendix Z It cannot be absolutely or generally affirmed that the greatest danger of the present age is license or tyranny , anarchy or despotism . 
The proper object therefore of our most strenuous resistance , is far less either anarchy or despotism than the apathy which may almost indifferently beget either the one or the other . 
All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States , which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives . 
When vacancies happen in the Representation from any State , the Executive Authority thereof shall issue Writs of Election to fill such Vacancies . 
The House of Representatives shall choose their Speaker and other Officers and shall have the sole Power of Impeachment . 
The Senate of the United States shall be composed of two Senators from each State , chosen by the Legislature thereof , for six Years and each Senator shall have one Vote . 
Immediately after they shall be assembled in Consequence of the first Election , they shall be divided as equally as may be into three Classes . 
The Vice President of the United States shall be President of the Senate , but shall have no Vote , unless they be equally divided . 
The Senate shall have the sole power to try all Impeachments . 
When sitting for that Purpose , they shall be on Oath or Affirmation . 
When the President of the United States is tried , the Chief Justice shall preside And no Person shall be convicted without the Concurrence of two thirds of the Members present . 
The Congress shall assemble at least once in every Year , and such Meeting shall be on the first Monday in December , unless they shall by Law appoint a different Day . 
Each House may determine the Rules of its Proceedings , punish its Members for disorderly Behaviour , and , with a Concurrence of two thirds , expel a Member . 
The Senators and Representatives shall receive a Compensation for their Services , to be ascertained by Law , and paid out of the Treasury of the United States . 
All Bills for Raising Revenue shall originate in the House of Representatives but the Senate may propose or concur with Amendments as on other Bills . 
To provide for calling forth the Militia to execute the Laws of the Union , suppress Insurrections and repel Invasions . 
The Privilege of the Writ of Habeas Corpus shall not be suspended , unless when in Cases of Rebellion or Invasion the public Safety may require it . 
No Bill of Attainder or ex post facto Law shall be passed . 
No Capitation , or other direct Tax shall be laid , unless in Proportion to the Census or Enumeration herein before directed to be taken . 
No Tax or Duty shall be laid on Articles exported from any State . 
The Executive Power shall be vested in a President of the United States of America . 
The Electors shall meet in their respective States , and vote by Ballot for two persons , of whom one at least shall not be an inhabitant of the same State with themselves . 
The President of the Senate shall , in the Presence of the Senate and House of Representatives , open all the Certificates , and the Votes shall then be counted . 
In every Case , after the Choice of the President , the Person having the greatest number of Votes of the Electors shall be the Vice President . 
But if there should remain two or more who have equal Votes , the Senate shall choose from them by Ballot the Vice President . 
d d This clause is superseded by Article XII , Amendments . 
The Congress may determine the Time of choosing the Electors , and the Day on which they shall give their Votes which Day shall be the same throughout the United States . 
The President shall have Power to fill up all vacancies that may happen during the recess of the Senate , by granting Commissions which shall expire at the End of their next Session . 
The judicial Power of the United States shall be vested in one supreme Court , and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish . 
In all Cases affecting Ambassadors , other public Ministers and Consuls , and those in which a State shall be Party , the Supreme Court shall have original Jurisdiction . 
Treason against the United States shall consist only in levying War against them , or in adhering to their Enemies , giving them Aid and Comfort . 
No person shall be convicted of Treason unless on the Testimony of two Witnesses to the same overt Act , or on Confession in open Court . 
The Congress shall have power to declare the Punishment of Treason , but no Attainder of Treason shall work Corruption of Blood or Forfeiture except during the life of the person attainted . 
Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the Public Acts , Records , and judicial Proceedings of every other State . 
And the Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts , Records and Proceedings shall be proved , and the Effect thereof . 
The Citizens of each State shall be entitled to all Privileges and Immunities of Citizens in the several States . 
