The Lazy Tour of Two Idle Apprentices by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price email ccx coventry . 
, of fair credit and repute , though , it must be acknowledged , not quite so highly esteemed in the City as she might be . 
It may be sufficient to name Sir William Walworth , Lord Mayor under King Richard II . 
, at the time of Wat Tyler's insurrection , and Sir Richard Whittington which latter distinguished man and magistrate was doubtless indebted to the lady's family for the gift of his celebrated cat . 
There is also strong reason to suppose that they rang the Highgate bells for him with their own hands . 
They had no intention of going anywhere in particular they wanted to see nothing , they wanted to know nothing , they wanted to learn nothing , they wanted to do nothing . 
They wanted only to be idle . 
, the names of Mr. Thomas Idle and Mr. Francis Goodchild but there was not a moral pin to choose between them , and they were both idle in the last degree . 
In the meantime the day waned , and the milestones remained unconquered . 
'Tom , said Goodchild , 'the sun is getting low . 
Up , and let us go forward ! 'Nay , quoth Thomas Idle , 'I have not done with Annie Laurie yet . 
'What an ass that fellow was ! cried Goodchild , with the bitter emphasis of contempt . 
'Which fellow ? asked Thomas Idle . 
'The fellow in your song . 
Lay him doon and dee ! Finely he'd show off before the girl by doing THAT . 
A sniveller ! Why couldn't he get up , and punch somebody's head ! 'Whose ? asked Thomas Idle . 
Wouldn't you ? 'I wouldn't have anything to do with her , yawned Thomas Idle . 
'Why should I take the trouble ? 'It's no trouble , Tom , to fall in love , said Goodchild , shaking his head . 
'It's trouble enough to fall out of it , once you're in it , retorted Tom . 
'So I keep out of it altogether . 
It would be better for you , if you did the same . 
Mr. Goodchild , who is always in love with somebody , and not unfrequently with several objects at once , made no reply . 
These two had sent their personal baggage on by train only retaining each a knapsack . 
Was it to see the country ? If that was the object , look at it out of the carriage windows . 
There was a great deal more of it to be seen there than here . 
Besides , who wanted to see the country ? Nobody . 
And again , whoever did walk ? Nobody . 
Fellows set off to walk , but they never did it . 
They came back and said they did , but they didn't . 
Then why should he walk ? He wouldn't walk . 
He swore it by this milestone ! It was the fifth from London , so far had they penetrated into the North . 
Submitting to the powerful chain of argument , Goodchild proposed a return to the Metropolis , and a falling back upon Euston Square Terminus . 
Thomas assented with alacrity , and so they walked down into the North by the next morning's express , and carried their knapsacks in the luggage van . 
It was like all other expresses , as every express is and must be . 
It bore through the harvest country a smell like a large washing day , and a sharp issue of steam as from a huge brazen tea urn . 
, and where sensitive stomachs were fed , with a contemptuous sharpness occasioning indigestion . 
Here , again , were stations with nothing going but a bell , and wonderful wooden razors set aloft on great posts , shaving the air . 
Carlisle ! Idle and Goodchild had got to Carlisle . 
It looked congenially and delightfully idle . 
Likewise , by those who liked them , there were impressions to be bought of all the vapid prints , going and gone , and of nearly all the vapid books . 
For those who wanted to put anything in missionary boxes , here were the boxes . 
, here was Mr. Podgers to any amount . 
Not less gracious and abundant , Mr. Codgers also of the vineyard , but opposed to Mr. Podgers , brotherly tooth and nail . 
SPURGEON , solid as to the flesh , not to say even something gross . 
The working and growing young women of Carlisle , from the age of twelve upwards , promenaded the streets in the cool of the evening , and rallied the said young men . 
There was its corn market down the main street , with hum of chaffering over open sacks . 
There was its general market in the street too , with heather brooms on which the purple flower still flourished , and heather baskets primitive and fresh to behold . 
With women trying on clogs and caps at open stalls , and 'Bible stalls' adjoining . 
with the company of clients of both sexes , to whom , on examination of their heads , he would make revelations 'enabling him or her to know themselves . 
Through all these bargains and blessings , the recruiting sergeant watchfully elbowed his way , a thread of War in the peaceful skein . 
Scenting the morning air more pleasantly than the buried majesty of Denmark did , Messrs . 
Idle and Goodchild rode away from Carlisle at eight o'clock one forenoon , bound for the village of Hesket , Newmarket , some fourteen miles distant . 
, dodging the apprentices in a picturesque and pleasant manner . 
Good , weather proof , warm , pleasant houses , well white limed , scantily dotting the road . 
Clean children coming out to look , carrying other clean children as big as themselves . 
Harvest still lying out and much rained upon here and there , harvest still unreaped . 
Well cultivated gardens attached to the cottages , with plenty of produce forced out of their hard soil . 
By and by , the village . 
Black , coarse stoned , rough windowed houses some with outer staircases , like Swiss houses a sinuous and stony gutter winding up hill and round the corner , by way of street . 
All the children running out directly . 
Women pausing in washing , to peep from doorways and very little windows . 
Such were the observations of Messrs . 
Idle and Goodchild , as their conveyance stopped at the village shoemaker's . 
Old Carrock gloomed down upon it all in a very ill tempered state and rain was beginning . 
The village shoemaker declined to have anything to do with Carrock . 
No visitors went up Carrock . 
No visitors came there at all . 
Aa' the world ganged awa' yon . 
The driver appealed to the Innkeeper . 
The Innkeeper had two men working in the fields , and one of them should be called in , to go up Carrock as guide . 
Idle and Goodchild , highly approving , entered the Innkeeper's house , to drink whiskey and eat oatcake . 
He had a ruddy cheek , a bright eye , a well knit frame , an immense hand , a cheery , outspeaking voice , and a straight , bright , broad look . 
He had a drawing room , too , upstairs , which was worth a visit to the Cumberland Fells . 
The room was comfortably and solidly furnished with good mahogany and horsehair . 
It had a snug fireside , and a couple of well curtained windows , looking out upon the wild country behind the house . 
What it most developed was , an unexpected taste for little ornaments and nick nacks , of which it contained a most surprising number . 
flying , and was making great way through a sea of a regular pattern , like a lady's collar . 
Everything became a nick nack in this curious room . 
There were books , too , in this room books on the table , books on the chimney piece , books in an open press in the corner . 
The journey at the outset was not remarkable . 
The approach to the foot of the mountain resembled the approaches to the feet of most other mountains all over the world . 
The dog cart was left at a lonely farm house . 
The landlord borrowed a large umbrella , and , assuming in an instant the character of the most cheerful and adventurous of guides , led the way to the ascent . 
Only in the bosom of Mr. Thomas Idle did Despondency now hold her gloomy state . 
He kept it a secret but he would have given a very handsome sum , when the ascent began , to have been back again at the inn . 
The sides of Carrock looked fearfully steep , and the top of Carrock was hidden in mist . 
The rain was falling faster and faster . 
The knees of Mr. Idle always weak on walking excursions shivered and shook with fear and damp . 
The honest landlord went first , the beaming Goodchild followed , the mournful Idle brought up the rear . 
From time to time , the two foremost members of the expedition changed places in the order of march but the rearguard never altered his position . 
After a hundred yards or so , however , the verdant scene and the easy slope disappeared , and the rocks began . 
When these impediments were passed , heather and slough followed . 
Here the steepness of the ascent was slightly mitigated and here the exploring party of three turned round to look at the view below them . 
The scene of the moorland and the fields was like a feeble water colour drawing half sponged out . 
Was this a sight worth climbing to see ? Surely surely not ! Up again for the top of Carrock is not reached yet . 
The land lord , just as good tempered and obliging as he was at the bottom of the mountain . 
Mr. Goodchild brighter in the eyes and rosier in the face than ever full of cheerful remarks and apt quotations and walking with a springiness of step wonderful to behold . 
Up and up and up again , till a ridge is reached and the outer edge of the mist on the summit of Carrock is darkly and drizzingly near . 
Is this the top ? No , nothing like the top . 
from below , they turn out to have a perfect eruption of false tops whenever the traveller is sufficiently ill advised to go out of his way for the purpose of ascending them . 
Carrock is but a trumpery little mountain of fifteen hundred feet , and it presumes to have false tops , and even precipices , as if it were Mont Blanc . 
No matter Goodchild enjoys it , and will go on and Idle , who is afraid of being left behind by himself , must follow . 
On entering the edge of the mist , the landlord stops , and says he hopes that it will not get any thicker . 
It is twenty years since he last ascended Carrock , and it is barely possible , if the mist increases , that the party may be lost on the mountain . 
Goodchild hears this dreadful intimation , and is not in the least impressed by it . 
He marches for the top that is never to be found , as if he was the Wandering Jew , bound to go on for ever , in defiance of everything . 
The landlord faithfully accompanies him . 
Up and up , and then down a little , and then up , and then along a strip of level ground , and then up again . 
The wind , a wind unknown in the happy valley , blows keen and strong the rain mist gets impenetrable a dreary little cairn of stones appears . 
It now becomes imperatively necessary to settle the exact situation of the farm house in the valley at which the dog cart has been left , before the travellers attempt to descend . 
The north is found , the point at which the farm house is situated is settled , and the descent begins . 
The difficulty of following this new route is acutely felt by Thomas Idle . 
Nevertheless , after the compass , this phrase was all the clue the party had to hold by , and Idle clung to the extreme end of it as hopefully as he could . 
Mr. Goodchild draws it tenderly from his pocket , and prepares to adjust it on a stone . 
Something falls on the turf it is the glass . 
Something else drops immediately after it is the needle . 
The compass is broken , and the exploring party is lost ! It is the practice of the English portion of the human race to receive all great disasters in dead silence . 
Mr. Goodchild restored the useless compass to his pocket without saying a word , Mr. Idle looked at the landlord , and the landlord looked at Mr. Idle . 
There was nothing for it now but to go on blindfold , and trust to the chapter of chances . 
A quarter of an hour brought them to the brink of a ravine , at the bottom of which there flowed a muddy little stream . 
Here another halt was called , and another consultation took place . 
The landlord , still clinging pertinaciously to the idea of reaching the 'point , voted for crossing the ravine , and going on round the slope of the mountain . 
Accordingly , the party descended to the rugged and stony banks of the stream and here again Thomas lost ground sadly , and fell far behind his travelling companions . 
Goodchild and the landlord were getting farther and farther ahead of him . 
He saw them cross the stream and disappear round a projection on its banks . 
He heard them shout the moment after as a signal that they had halted and were waiting for him . 
The situation was now , in plain terms , one of absolute danger . 
To leave the wretched Thomas on unknown ground was plainly impossible and to get him to walk with a badly sprained ankle seemed equally out of the question . 
The cart track grew fainter and fainter , until it was washed out altogether by another little stream , dark , turbulent , and rapid . 
Here , there were a few sheep feeding . 
In another minute , the landlord , who was in advance , proclaimed that he saw a tree . 
Before long , other trees appeared then a cottage then a house beyond the cottage , and a familiar line of road rising behind it . 
Last of all , Carrock itself loomed darkly into view , far away to the right hand . 
In due time and a very long time it seemed to Mr. Idle the rattle of wheels was heard , and the crippled Apprentice was lifted into the seat . 
Mr. Idle heard this sad story , and derived at least one useful impression from it . 
Bad as the pain in his ankle was , he contrived to bear it patiently , for he felt grateful that a worse accident had not befallen him in the wilds of Carrock . 
Wigton market was over , and its bare booths were smoking with rain all down the street . 
, Mr. Goodchild went to the window to take an observation of Wigton , and report what he saw to his disabled companion . 
I see the houses with their roofs of dull black , their stained fronts , and their dark rimmed windows , looking as if they were all in mourning . 
As every little puff of wind comes down the street , I see a perfect train of rain let off along the wooden stalls in the market place and exploded against me . 
I see a very big gas lamp in the centre which I know , by a secret instinct , will not be lighted to night . 
I see a pump , with a trivet underneath its spout whereon to stand the vessels that are brought to be filled with water . 
I see a man come to pump , and he pumps very hard , but no water follows , and he strolls empty away . 
I see a linen draper's shop next door to the right and there are five more linen drapers' shops down the corner to the left . 
Her Majesty the Queen , God bless her , printed in colours , I am sure I see . 
And I see a watchmaker's with only three great pale watches of a dull metal hanging in his window , each in a separate pane . 
, and the short , square , chinky omnibus that goes to the railway , and leads too rattling a life over the stones to hold together long . 
O yes ! Now , I see two men with their hands in their pockets and their backs towards me . 
They keep their backs towards me with persistency . 
If one turns an inch in any direction , the other turns an inch in the same direction , and no more . 
They turn very stiffly , on a very little pivot , in the middle of the market place . 
Their appearance is partly of a mining , partly of a ploughing , partly of a stable , character . 
They are looking at nothing very hard . 
Their backs are slouched , and their legs are curved with much standing about . 
Their pockets are loose and dog's eared , on account of their hands being always in them . 
They spit at times , but speak not . 
'The murky shadows , said Francis Goodchild , 'are gathering fast and the wings of evening , and the wings of coal , are folding over Wigton . 
Still , they look at nothing very hard , with their backs towards me . 
And now the town goes to sleep , undazzled by the large unlighted lamp in the market place and let no man wake it . 
At the close of the next day's journey , Mr. Thomas Idle's ankle became much swollen and inflamed . 
There are reasons which will presently explain themselves for not publicly indicating the exact direction in which that journey lay , or the place in which it ended . 
'Ey , my word ! said the landlady , glancing doubtfully at the ankle for herself 'there's Doctor Speddie . 
'Is he a good Doctor ? 'Ey ! said the landlady , 'I ca' him so . 
A' cooms efther nae doctor that I ken . 
Mair nor which , a's just THE doctor heer . 
'Do you think he is at home ? Her reply was , 'Gang awa' , Jock , and bring him . 
A very few minutes had elapsed when he showed the Doctor in , by tumbling against the door before him and bursting it open with his head . 
'Gently , Jock , gently , said the Doctor as he advanced with a quiet step . 
'Gentlemen , a good evening . 
I am sorry that my presence is required here . 
A slight accident , I hope ? A slip and a fall ? Yes , yes , yes . 
Carrock , indeed ? Hah ! Does that pain you , sir ? No doubt , it does . 
It is the great connecting ligament here , you see , that has been badly strained . 
Time and rest , sir ! They are often the recipe in greater cases , with a slight sigh , 'and often the recipe in small . 
I can send a lotion to relieve you , but we must leave the cure to time and rest . 
This he said , holding Idle's foot on his knee between his two hands , as he sat over against him . 
He spoke with a little irresolution whenever he began , but afterwards fluently . 
He stooped very little , though past seventy and very grey . 
His dress was more like that of a clergyman than a country doctor , being a plain black suit , and a plain white neck kerchief tied behind like a band . 
His black was the worse for wear , and there were darns in his coat , and his linen was a little frayed at the hems and edges . 
He might have been poor it was likely enough in that out of the way spot or he might have been a little self forgetful and eccentric . 
Any one could have seen directly , that he had neither wife nor child at home . 
He had a scholarly air with him , and that kind of considerate humanity towards others which claimed a gentle consideration for himself . 
Mr. Goodchild made this study of him while he was examining the limb , and as he laid it down . 
Mr. Goodchild wishes to add that he considers it a very good likeness . 
Certain idle labours , the fruit of Mr. Goodchild's apprenticeship , also happened to be well known to him . 
The rain had nearly ceased , the clouds had broken before a cool wind from the north east , and stars were shining from the peaceful heights beyond them . 
Doctor Speddie's house was the last house in the place . 
Beyond it , lay the moor , all dark and lonesome . 
The wind moaned in a low , dull , shivering manner round the little garden , like a houseless creature that knew the winter was coming . 
It was exceedingly wild and solitary . 
'Roses , said the Doctor , when Goodchild touched some wet leaves overhanging the stone porch 'but they get cut to pieces . 
The Doctor opened the door with a key he carried , and led the way into a low but pretty ample hall with rooms on either side . 
The door of one of these stood open , and the Doctor entered it , with a word of welcome to his guest . 
It , too , was a low room , half surgery and half parlour , with shelves of books and bottles against the walls , which were of a very dark hue . 
There was a fire in the grate , the night being damp and chill . 
Leaning against the chimney piece looking down into it , stood the Doctor's Assistant . 
A man of a most remarkable appearance . 
Much older than Mr. Goodchild had expected , for he was at least two and fifty but , that was nothing . 
What was startling in him was his remarkable paleness . 
There was no vestige of colour in the man . 
When he turned his face , Francis Goodchild started as if a stone figure had looked round at him . 
Lorn , said the Doctor . 
But , he was so pale that his face stood out in relief again the dark wall , and really could not be hidden so . 
Goodchild's friend has met with accident , Lorn , said Doctor Speddie . 
'We want the lotion for a bad sprain . 
'My dear fellow , you are more than usually absent to night . 
The lotion for a bad sprain . 
'Ah ! yes ! Directly . 
He was evidently relieved to turn away , and to take his white face and his wild eyes to a table in a recess among the bottles . 
But , though he stood there , compounding the lotion with his back towards them , Goodchild could not , for many moments , withdraw his gaze from the man . 
When he at length did so , he found the Doctor observing him , with some trouble in his face . 
'He is absent , explained the Doctor , in a low voice . 
'Is he ill ? 'No , not ill . 
'Unhappy ? 'I have my suspicions that he was , assented the Doctor , 'once . 
Yet , that they were not father and son must have been plain to most eyes . 
It was in vain for the Doctor in his easy chair , to try to lead the mind of Mr. Goodchild in the opposite easy chair , away from what was before him . 
Let Mr. Goodchild do what he would to follow the Doctor , his eyes and thoughts reverted to the Assistant . 
The Doctor soon perceived it , and , after falling silent , and musing in a little perplexity , said 'Lorn ! 'My dear Doctor . 
'Would you go to the Inn , and apply that lotion ? You will show the best way of applying it , far better than Mr. Goodchild can . 
The Assistant took his hat , and passed like a shadow to the door . 
'Lorn ! said the Doctor , calling after him . 
Goodchild will keep me company till you come home . 
Excuse my calling you back . 
'It is not , said the Assistant , with his former smile , 'the first time you have called me back , dear Doctor . 
With those words he went away . 
Goodchild , said Doctor Speddie , in a low voice , and with his former troubled expression of face , 'I have seen that your attention has been concentrated on my friend . 
I must apologise to you , but he has quite bewildered and mastered me . 
'I find that a lonely existence and a long secret , said the Doctor , drawing his chair a little nearer to Mr. Goodchild's , 'become in the course of time very heavy . 
I will tell you something . 
You may make what use you will of it , under fictitious names . 
I know I may trust you . 
I am the more inclined to confidence to night , through having been unexpectedly led back , by the current of our conversation at the Inn , to scenes in my early life . 
His father was a rich manufacturer , and had bought landed property enough in one of the midland counties to make all the born squires in his neighbourhood thoroughly envious of him . 
This may be true or not . 
I myself only knew the elder Mr. Holliday when he was getting on in years and then he was as quiet and as respectable a gentleman as ever I met with . 
He did not reach the town till towards the close of the evening , and he went at once to see about his dinner and bed at the principal hotel . 
Dinner they were ready enough to give him but as for a bed , they laughed when he mentioned it . 
In the race week at Doncaster , it is no uncommon thing for visitors who have not bespoken apartments , to pass the night in their carriages at the inn doors . 
He tried the second hotel , and the third hotel , and two of the inferior inns after that and was met everywhere by the same form of answer . 
No accommodation for the night of any sort was left . 
All the bright golden sovereigns in his pocket would not buy him a bed at Doncaster in the race week . 
The look of the night had rather a lowering effect on young Holliday's good spirits . 
Down the winding road before him shone the dull gleam of an oil lamp , the one faint , lonely light that struggled ineffectually with the foggy darkness all round him . 
Arthur turned into the court without hesitation , to see what The Two Robins could do for him . 
Four or five men were standing together round the door of the house which was at the bottom of the court , facing the entrance from the street . 
On entering the passage , Arthur was passed by a stranger with a knapsack in his hand , who was evidently leaving the house . 
'No , Mr. landlord , I am not easily scared by trifles but , I don't mind confessing that I can't quite stand THAT . 
'If you have got a bed to let , he said , 'and if that gentleman who has just gone out won't pay your price for it , I will . 
The sly landlord looked hard at Arthur . 
'Will you , sir ? he asked , in a meditative , doubtful way . 
'Name your price , said young Holliday , thinking that the landlord's hesitation sprang from some boorish distrust of him . 
Arthur nearly laughed in the man's face but thinking it prudent to control himself , offered the five shillings as seriously as he could . 
The sly landlord held out his hand , then suddenly drew it back again . 
'You're acting all fair and above board by me , he said 'and , before I take your money , I'll do the same by you . 
Look here , this is how it stands . 
You can have a bed all to yourself for five shillings but you can't have more than a half share of the room it stands in . 
Do you see what I mean , young gentleman ? 'Of course I do , returned Arthur , a little irritably . 
'You mean that it is a double bedded room , and that one of the beds is occupied ? The landlord nodded his head , and rubbed his double chin harder than ever . 
Arthur hesitated , and mechanically moved back a step or two towards the door . 
The idea of sleeping in the same room with a total stranger , did not present an attractive prospect to him . 
He felt more than half inclined to drop his five shillings into his pocket , and to go out into the street once more . 
'Is it yes , or no ? asked the landlord . 
'Settle it as quick as you can , because there's lots of people wanting a bed at Doncaster to night , besides you . 
Arthur looked towards the court , and heard the rain falling heavily in the street outside . 
He thought he would ask a question or two before he rashly decided on leaving the shelter of The Two Robins . 
'What sort of a man is it who has got the other bed ? he inquired . 
'As sober as a judge , and as regular as clock work in his habits . 
It hasn't struck nine , not ten minutes ago , and he's in his bed already . 
I don't know whether that comes up to your notion of a quiet man it goes a long way ahead of mine , I can tell you . 
'Is he asleep , do you think ? asked Arthur . 
'I know he's asleep , returned the landlord . 
'And what's more , he's gone off so fast , that I'll warrant you don't wake him . 
This way , sir , said the landlord , speaking over young Holliday's shoulder , as if he was addressing some new guest who was approaching the house . 
'Here you are , said Arthur , determined to be beforehand with the stranger , whoever he might be . 
And he handed the five shillings to the landlord , who nodded , dropped the money carelessly into his waistcoat pocket , and lighted the candle . 
'Come up and see the room , said the host of The Two Robins , leading the way to the staircase quite briskly , considering how fat he was . 
They mounted to the second floor of the house . 
The landlord half opened a door , fronting the landing , then stopped , and turned round to Arthur . 
'It's a fair bargain , mind , on my side as well as on yours , he said . 
Saying those words , he looked hard , for a moment , in young Holliday's face , and then led the way into the room . 
It was larger and cleaner than Arthur had expected it would be . 
The two beds stood parallel with each other a space of about six feet intervening between them . 
They were both of the same medium size , and both had the same plain white curtains , made to draw , if necessary , all round them . 
The occupied bed was the bed nearest the window . 
The curtains were all drawn round this , except the half curtain at the bottom , on the side of the bed farthest from the window . 
Arthur saw the feet of the sleeping man raising the scanty clothes into a sharp little eminence , as if he was lying flat on his back . 
He took the candle , and advanced softly to draw the curtain stopped half way , and listened for a moment then turned to the landlord . 
'He's a very quiet sleeper , said Arthur . 
'Yes , said the landlord , 'very quiet . 
Young Holliday advanced with the candle , and looked in at the man cautiously . 
'How pale he is ! said Arthur . 
'Yes , returned the landlord , 'pale enough , isn't he ? Arthur looked closer at the man . 
The bedclothes were drawn up to his chin , and they lay perfectly still over the region of his chest . 
'Come here , he whispered , under his breath . 
'Come here , for God's sake ! The man's not asleep he is dead ! 'You have found that out sooner than I thought you would , said the landlord , composedly . 
'Yes , he's dead , sure enough . 
He died at five o'clock to day . 
'How did he die ? Who is he ? asked Arthur , staggered , for a moment , by the audacious coolness of the answer . 
'As to who is he , rejoined the landlord , 'I know no more about him than you do . 
There are his books and letters and things , all sealed up in that brown paper parcel , for the Coroner's inquest to open to morrow or next day . 
He's been here a week , paying his way fairly enough , and stopping in doors , for the most part , as if he was ailing . 
We could not bring him to and I said he was dead . 
And the doctor couldn't bring him to and the doctor said he was dead . 
And the Coroner's inquest's coming as soon as it can . 
And that's as much as I know about it . 
Arthur held the candle close to the man's lips . 
The flame still burnt straight up , as steadily as before . 
There was a moment of silence and the rain pattered drearily through it against the panes of the window . 
'If you haven't got nothing more to say to me , continued the landlord , 'I suppose I may go . 
You don't expect your five shillings back , do you ? There's the bed I promised you , clean and comfortable . 
There's the man I warranted not to disturb you , quiet in this world for ever . 
If you're frightened to stop alone with him , that's not my look out . 
I've kept my part of the bargain , and I mean to keep the money . 
With these words , the landlord turned towards the door , and laughed to himself softly , in high satisfaction at his own sharpness . 
'Don't laugh , he said sharply , 'till you are quite sure you have got the laugh against me . 
You shan't have the five shillings for nothing , my man . 
'Will you ? said the landlord . 
'Then I wish you a goodnight's rest . 
With that brief farewell , he went out , and shut the door after him . 
A good night's rest ! The words had hardly been spoken , the door had hardly been closed , before Arthur half repented the hasty words that had just escaped him . 
An older man would have thought nothing of those words , and would have acted , without reference to them , as his calmer sense suggested . 
'It is but a few hours , he thought to himself , 'and I can get away the first thing in the morning . 
He drew the curtain very gently , and sighed involuntarily as he closed it . 
'Poor fellow , he said , almost as sadly as if he had known the man . 
'Ah , poor fellow ! He went next to the window . 
The night was black , and he could see nothing from it . 
The rain still pattered heavily against the glass . 
But the very thought of whiling away the time in this manner was distasteful to him . 
The new situation in which he was placed seemed to have altered him to himself already . 
Thus far , his life had been the common , trifling , prosaic , surface life of a prosperous young man , with no troubles to conquer , and no trials to face . 
He had lost no relation whom he loved , no friend whom he treasured . 
Till this night , what share he had of the immortal inheritance that is divided amongst us all , had laid dormant within him . 
Till this night , Death and he had not once met , even in thought . 
He took a few turns up and down the room then stopped . 
The noise made by his boots on the poorly carpeted floor , jarred on his ear . 
He hesitated a little , and ended by taking the boots off , and walking backwards and forwards noiselessly . 
All desire to sleep or to rest had left him . 
The bare thought of lying down on the unoccupied bed instantly drew the picture on his mind of a dreadful mimicry of the position of the dead man . 
Poor , ill , lonely , dead in a strange place dead , with nobody but a stranger to pity him . 
A sad story truly , on the mere face of it , a very sad story . 
While these thoughts were passing through his mind , he had stopped insensibly at the window , close to which stood the foot of the bed with the closed curtains . 
There was a pewter inkstand on the chimney piece , with some mildewed remains of ink in the bottle . 
He read the first riddle , the second , the third , all in one corner of the card then turned it round impatiently to look at another . 
Before he could begin reading the riddles printed here , the sound of the church clock stopped him . 
He had got through an hour of the time , in the room with the dead man . 
Once more he looked at the card . 
Up to this time , his mind had been too much occupied to think of the light . 
He took up the snuffers now , and trimmed the wick . 
The light brightened directly , and the room became less dismal . 
Again he turned to the riddles reading them doggedly and resolutely , now in one corner of the card , now in another . 
All his efforts , however , could not fix his attention on them . 
He pursued his occupation mechanically , deriving no sort of impression from what he was reading . 
It was as if a shadow from the curtained bed had got between his mind and the gaily printed letters a shadow that nothing could dispel . 
At last , he gave up the struggle , and threw the card from him impatiently , and took to walking softly up and down the room again . 
The dead man , the dead man , the HIDDEN dead man on the bed ! There was the one persistent idea still haunting him . 
The sound of a voice , shouting below stairs , woke him suddenly from the dream of his own distempered fancy . 
He recognised it as the voice of the landlord . 
'Shut up at twelve , Ben , he heard it say . 
Without allowing himself an instant to hesitate , he parted the curtains at the foot of the bed , and looked through . 
There was a sad , peaceful , white face , with the awful mystery of stillness on it , laid back upon the pillow . 
He returned to his old occupation of walking up and down the room persevering in it , this time , till the clock struck again . 
As the sound of the clock bell died away , it was succeeded by the confused noise , down stairs , of the drinkers in the tap room leaving the house . 
The next sound , after an interval of silence , was caused by the barring of the door , and the closing of the shutters , at the back of the Inn . 
Then the silence followed again , and was disturbed no more . 
He was alone now absolutely , utterly , alone with the dead man , till the next morning . 
The wick of the candle wanted trimming again . 
It had been lighted , for the first time , to show him the way up stairs , and three parts of it , at least , were already consumed . 
In another hour it would be burnt out . 
In another hour unless he called at once to the man who had shut up the Inn , for a fresh candle he would be left in the dark . 
In his present hesitating frame of mind , it was a kind of relief to gain a few moments only by engaging in the trifling occupation of snuffing the candle . 
His hand trembled a little , and the snuffers were heavy and awkward to use . 
When he closed them on the wick , he closed them a hair's breadth too low . 
In an instant the candle was out , and the room was plunged in pitch darkness . 
No sound stirred in the room but the familiar sound of the rain against the window , louder and sharper now than he had heard it yet . 
Still the vague distrust , the inexpressible dread possessed him , and kept him to his chair . 
When he had got one of the matches , he waited before he struck it on the coarse wooden table , and listened intently again , without knowing why . 
Still there was no sound in the room but the steady , ceaseless , rattling sound of the rain . 
When he looked at the bed , now , he saw , hanging over the side of it , a long white hand . 
It lay perfectly motionless , midway on the side of the bed , where the curtain at the head and the curtain at the foot met . 
The clinging curtains hid everything but the long white hand . 
He stood looking at it unable to stir , unable to call out feeling nothing , knowing nothing , every faculty he possessed gathered up and lost in the one seeing faculty . 
How long that first panic held him he never could tell afterwards . 
It might have been only for a moment it might have been for many minutes together . 
It is enough that he did go to the bed , and that he did look inside the curtains . 
One of his arms was outside the clothes his face was turned a little on the pillow his eyelids were wide open . 
Changed as to position , and as to one of the features , the face was , otherwise , fearfully and wonderfully unaltered . 
The dead paleness and the dead quiet were on it still One glance showed Arthur this one glance , before he flew breathlessly to the door , and alarmed the house . 
The man whom the landlord called 'Ben , was the first to appear on the stairs . 
In three words , Arthur told him what had happened , and sent him for the nearest doctor . 
They had sent for me from the Inn , when the stranger was taken ill in the afternoon but I was not at home , and medical assistance was sought for elsewhere . 
When the man from The Two Robins rang the night bell , I was just thinking of going to bed . 
Naturally enough , I did not believe a word of his story about 'a dead man who had come to life again . 
It was no time then for giving or seeking explanations . 
We just shook hands amazedly and then I ordered everybody but Arthur out of the room , and hurried to the man on the bed . 
The kitchen fire had not been long out . 
There was plenty of hot water in the boiler , and plenty of flannel to be had . 
With these , with my medicines , and with such help as Arthur could render under my direction , I dragged the man , literally , out of the jaws of death . 
I prefer telling you that , in this case , cause and effect could not be satisfactorily joined together by any theory whatever . 
that the vital principle was not extinct . 
The first question he asked me about himself , when he could speak , made me suspect that I had been called in to a man in my own profession . 
I mentioned to him my surmise and he told me that I was right . 
He said he had come last from Paris , where he had been attached to a hospital . 
He did not add a word about his name , or who he was and , of course , I did not question him on the subject . 
All I inquired , when he ceased speaking , was what branch of the profession he intended to follow . 
'Any branch , he said , bitterly , 'which will put bread into the mouth of a poor man . 
'now you have come to life again , don't begin by being down hearted about your prospects . 
I'll answer for it , I can help you to some capital thing in the medical line or , if I can't , I know my father can . 
The medical student looked at him steadily . 
'Thank you , he said , coldly . 
Then added , 'May I ask who your father is ? 'He's well enough known all about this part of the country , replied Arthur . 
'He is a great manufacturer , and his name is Holliday . 
My hand was on the man's wrist during this brief conversation . 
'How did you come here ? asked the stranger , quickly , excitably , passionately almost . 
Arthur related briefly what had happened from the time of his first taking the bed at the inn . 
'I am indebted to Mr. Holliday's son then for the help that has saved my life , said the medical student , speaking to himself , with a singular sarcasm in his voice . 
'Come here ! He held out , as he spoke , his long , white , bony , right hand . 
'With all my heart , said Arthur , taking the hand cordially . 
'I may confess it now , he continued , laughing . 
'Upon my honour , you almost frightened me out of my wits . 
The stranger did not seem to listen . 
His wild black eyes were fixed with a look of eager interest on Arthur's face , and his long bony fingers kept tight hold of Arthur's hand . 
Young Holliday , on his side , returned the gaze , amazed and puzzled by the medical student's odd language and manners . 
It must have been a strong likeness , or I should certainly not have found it out , for I am naturally slow at detecting resemblances between faces . 
'You have saved my life , said the strange man , still looking hard in Arthur's face , still holding tightly by his hand . 
'If you had been my own brother , you could not have done more for me than that . 
'I hope I have not done being of service to you yet , said Arthur . 
'I'll speak to my father , as soon as I get home . 
'You seem to be fond and proud of your father , said the medical student . 
'I suppose , in return , he is fond and proud of you ? 'Of course , he is ! answered Arthur , laughing . 
'Is there anything wonderful in that ? Isn't YOUR father fond The stranger suddenly dropped young Holliday's hand , and turned his face away . 
'I beg your pardon , said Arthur . 
'I hope I have not unintentionally pained you . 
I hope you have not lost your father . 
'I can't well lose what I have never had , retorted the medical student , with a harsh , mocking laugh . 
'What you have never had ! The strange man suddenly caught Arthur's hand again , suddenly looked once more hard in his face . 
'Yes , he said , with a repetition of the bitter laugh . 
'You have brought a poor devil back into the world , who has no business there . 
Do I astonish you ? Well ! I have a fancy of my own for telling you what men in my situation generally keep a secret . 
I have no name and no father . 
The merciful law of Society tells me I am Nobody's Son ! Ask your father if he will be my father too , and help me on in life with the family name . 
Arthur looked at me , more puzzled than ever . 
I signed to him to say nothing , and then laid my fingers again on the man's wrist . 
No ! In spite of the extraordinary speech that he had just made , he was not , as I had been disposed to suspect , beginning to get light headed . 
His pulse , by this time , had fallen back to a quiet , slow beat , and his skin was moist and cool . 
Not a symptom of fever or agitation about him . 
I said the matter required careful thinking over , and suggested that I should submit certain prescriptions to him the next morning . 
He told me to write them at once , as he would , most likely , be leaving Doncaster , in the morning , before I was up . 
It was quite useless to represent to him the folly and danger of such a proceeding as this . 
With the paper , there fell out on the counterpane of the bed a small packet of sticking plaster , and a little water colour drawing of a landscape . 
The medical student took up the drawing and looked at it . 
His eye fell on some initials neatly written , in cypher , in one corner . 
He started and trembled his pale face grew whiter than ever his wild black eyes turned on Arthur , and looked through and through him . 
'A pretty drawing , he said in a remarkably quiet tone of voice . 
'Ah ! and done by such a pretty girl , said Arthur . 
'Love at first sight ! he said , putting the drawing away again . 
'But the course of it doesn't run smooth . 
Trammelled by a rash engagement to some poor man who is never likely to get money enough to marry her . 
It was lucky I heard of it in time , or I should certainly have risked a declaration when she gave me that drawing . 
Here , doctor ! Here is pen , ink , and paper all ready for you . 
'When she gave you that drawing ? Gave it . 
He repeated the words slowly to himself , and suddenly closed his eyes . 
A momentary distortion passed across his face , and I saw one of his hands clutch up the bedclothes and squeeze them hard . 
I thought he was going to be ill again , and begged that there might be no more talking . 
He opened his eyes when I spoke , fixed them once more searchingly on Arthur , and said , slowly and distinctly , 'You like her , and she likes you . 
The poor man may die out of your way . 
From that time , though he spoke to Arthur again , he never looked at him more . 
When I had written the prescription , he examined it , approved of it , and then astonished us both by abruptly wishing us good night . 
I offered to sit up with him , and he shook his head . 
Arthur offered to sit up with him , and he said , shortly , with his face turned away , 'No . 
I insisted on having somebody left to watch him . 
He gave way when he found I was determined , and said he would accept the services of the waiter at the Inn . 
'Thank you , both , he said , as we rose to go . 
'I have one last favour to ask not of you , doctor , for I leave you to exercise your professional discretion but of Mr. Holliday . 
His eyes , while he spoke , still rested steadily on me , and never once turned towards Arthur . 
'I beg that Mr. Holliday will not mention to any one least of all to his father the events that have occurred , and the words that have passed , in this room . 
I entreat him to bury me in his memory , as , but for him , I might have been buried in my grave . 
I cannot give my reasons for making this strange request . 
I can only implore him to grant it . 
His voice faltered for the first time , and he hid his face on the pillow . 
Arthur , completely bewildered , gave the required pledge . 
I returned to the Inn at eight o'clock , purposely abstaining from waking Arthur , who was sleeping off the past night's excitement on one of my friend's sofas . 
I have already alluded to certain reports , or scandals , which I knew of , relating to the early life of Arthur's father . 
Something within me whispered , 'It is best that those two young men should not meet again . 
I felt it before I slept I felt it when I woke and I went , as I told you , alone to the Inn the next morning . 
I had missed my only opportunity of seeing my nameless patient again . 
He had been gone nearly an hour when I inquired for him . 
I have now told you everything that I know for certain , in relation to the man whom I brought back to life in the double bedded room of the Inn at Doncaster . 
What I have next to add is matter for inference and surmise , and is not , strictly speaking , matter of fact . 
That marriage took place a little more than a year after the events occurred which I have just been relating . 
The young couple came to live in the neighbourhood in which I was then established in practice . 
I never heard more from him than this . 
For three years he and his wife lived together happily . 
At the expiration of that time , the symptoms of a serious illness first declared themselves in Mrs. Arthur Holliday . 
It turned out to be a long , lingering , hopeless malady . 
We had been great friends when she was well , and we became more attached to each other than ever when she was ill . 
I had many long and interesting conversations with her in the intervals when she suffered least . 
The result of one of these conversations I may briefly relate , leaving you to draw any inferences from it that you please . 
The interview to which I refer , occurred shortly before her death . 
I called one evening , as usual , and found her alone , with a look in her eyes which told me that she had been crying . 
I asked her how the engagement came to be broken off . 
She replied that it had not been broken off , but that it had died out in a very mysterious way . 
The person to whom she was engaged her first love , she called him was very poor , and there was no immediate prospect of their being married . 
He followed my profession , and went abroad to study . 
They had corresponded regularly , until the time when , as she believed , he had returned to England . 
From that period she heard no more of him . 
He was of a fretful , sensitive temperament and she feared that she might have inadvertently done or said something that offended him . 
However that might be , he had never written to her again and , after waiting a year , she had married Arthur . 
A fortnight after that conversation , she died . 
In course of time , Arthur married again . 
Of late years , he has lived principally in London , and I have seen little or nothing of him . 
I have many years to pass over before I can approach to anything like a conclusion of this fragmentary narrative . 
And even when that later period is reached , the little that I have to say will not occupy your attention for more than a few minutes . 
I saw something that was familiar to me in his face when we first met and yet it was also something that suggested the idea of change . 
Mr. Goodchild , who had been following every word that fell from his lips up to this time , leaned forward eagerly to ask a question . 
Before he could say a word , the latch of the door was raised , without any warning sound of footsteps in the passage outside . 
'That hand ! Look at that hand , Doctor ! said Mr. Goodchild , touching him . 
At the same moment , the Doctor looked at Mr. Goodchild , and whispered to him , significantly 'Hush ! he has come back . 
CHAPTER III The Cumberland Doctor's mention of Doncaster Races , inspired Mr. Francis Goodchild with the idea of going down to Doncaster to see the races . 
, it necessarily followed that Francis perceived Doncaster in the race week to be , of all possible idleness , the particular idleness that would completely satisfy him . 
, of conveying the said Thomas to the sea coast , and putting his injured leg under a stream of salt water . 
that a watering place could offer to the heart of idle man . 
After this supplementary discovery , Mr. Goodchild said no more about it . 
'Do you see Allonby ! asked Thomas Idle . 
'I don't see it yet , said Francis , looking out of window . 
'It must be there , said Thomas Idle . 
'I don't see it , returned Francis . 
'It must be there , repeated Thomas Idle , fretfully . 
, and a donkey running away . 
Thomas Idle yielded his arm to the ready Goodchild , and descended from the vehicle . 
'Francis , said Thomas Idle , 'what do you think of this place ? 'I think , returned Mr. Goodchild , in a glowing way , 'it is everything we expected . 
'Hah ! said Thomas Idle . 
'There is the sea , cried Mr. Goodchild , pointing out of window 'and here , pointing to the lunch on the table , 'are shrimps . 
Let us here Mr. Goodchild looked out of window , as if in search of something , and looked in again , 'let us eat 'em . 
The shrimps eaten and the dinner ordered , Mr. Goodchild went out to survey the watering place . 
As Chorus of the Drama , without whom Thomas could make nothing of the scenery , he by and by returned , to have the following report screwed out of him . 
In brief , it was the most delightful place ever seen . 
'Proceed , said Thomas Idle . 
It was , Mr. Goodchild went on to say , in cross examination , what you might call a primitive place . 
Large ? No , it was not large . 
Who ever expected it would be large ? Shape ? What a question to ask ! No shape . 
What sort of a street ? Why , no street . 
Shops ? Yes , of course . 
How many ? Who ever went into a place to count the shops ? Ever so many . 
A library ? Why , of course . 
Good collection of books ? Most likely couldn't say had seen nothing in it but a pair of scales . 
Any reading room ? Of course , there was a reading room . 
Where ? Where ! why , over there . 
That was the reading room , and if Mr. Idle didn't like the idea of a weaver's shuttle throbbing under a reading room , that was his look out . 
HE was not to dictate , Mr. Goodchild supposed , to the company . 
'By the by , Thomas Idle observed 'the company ? Well ! very nice company . 
Where were they ? Why , there they were . 
Mr. Idle could see the tops of their hats , he supposed . 
What ? Those nine straw hats again , five gentlemen's and four ladies' ? Yes , to be sure . 
Mr. Goodchild hoped the company were not to be expected to wear helmets , to please Mr. Idle . 
In the course of some days , he added , that there were three fishing boats , but no rigging , and that there were plenty of fishermen who never fished . 
That they got their living entirely by looking at the ocean . 
What nourishment they looked out of it to support their strength , he couldn't say but , he supposed it was some sort of Iodine . 
, and always hurting themselves or one another , so that their wailings made more continual noise in the air than could have been got in a busy place . 
, and where you might buy anything you wanted supposing what you wanted , was a little camp stool or a child's wheelbarrow . 
This donkey was the public excitement of Allonby , and was probably supported at the public expense . 
'Judge , then , returned Francis , adopting the style of the story book , 'with what success . 
So , the boy , said Mr. Goodchild , concluding the tale , 'comes back with the letters after all , and lives happy never afterwards . 
Where other men in his situation would have read books and improved their minds , Thomas slept and rested his body . 
Where other men would have pondered anxiously over their future prospects , Thomas dreamed lazily of his past life . 
It is due to Mr. Idle to relate that his mind sauntered towards this peculiar conclusion on distinct and logically producible grounds . 
The first disaster occurred after Thomas had been an idle and a popular boy at school , for some happy years . 
He did try , and he got a prize how , he did not distinctly know at the moment , and cannot remember now . 
No sooner , however , had the book Moral Hints to the Young on the Value of Time been placed in his hands , than the first troubles of his life began . 
The idle boys deserted him , as a traitor to their cause . 
He had forfeited the comfortable reputation of being the one lazy member of the youthful community whom it was quite hopeless to punish . 
Never more , after winning that fatal prize , did he escape the retributive imposition , or the avenging birch . 
From that time , the masters made him work , and the boys would not let him play . 
From that time his social position steadily declined , and his life at school became a perpetual burden to him . 
So , again , with the second disaster . 
While Thomas was lazy , he was a model of health . 
His first attempt at active exertion and his first suffering from severe illness are connected together by the intimate relations of cause and effect . 
Shortly after leaving school , he accompanied a party of friends to a cricket field , in his natural and appropriate character of spectator only . 
On the ground it was discovered that the players fell short of the required number , and facile Thomas was persuaded to assist in making up the complement . 
At a certain appointed time , he was roused from peaceful slumber in a dry ditch , and placed before three wickets with a bat in his hand . 
Opposite to him , behind three more wickets , stood one of his bosom friends , filling the situation of bowler . 
Fortified by this sound and salutary principle , he took his own course , impervious alike to ridicule and abuse . 
Whenever the ball came near him , he thought of his shins , and got out of the way immediately . 
'Catch it ! 'Stop it ! 'Pitch it up ! were cries that passed by him like the idle wind that he regarded not . 
He ducked under it , he jumped over it , he whisked himself away from it on either side . 
Never once , through the whole innings did he and the ball come together on anything approaching to intimate terms . 
The unnatural activity of body which was necessarily called forth for the accomplishment of this result threw Thomas Idle , for the first time in his life , into a perspiration . 
The third occasion on which Thomas found reason to reproach himself bitterly for the mistake of having attempted to be industrious , was connected with his choice of a calling in life . 
Having no interest in the Church , he appropriately selected the next best profession for a lazy man in England the Bar . 
Never did Thomas move more harmoniously in concert with his elders and betters than when he was qualifying himself for admission among the barristers of his native country . 
How he could ever again have become industrious , even for the shortest period , after that great reward conferred upon his idleness , quite passes his comprehension . 
The kind Benchers did everything they could to show him the folly of exerting himself . 
They wrote out his probationary exercise for him , and never expected him even to take the trouble of reading it through when it was written . 
This was all the ceremony . 
After a fortnight of self delusion , the curtain fell from his eyes he resumed his natural character , and shut up his books . 
But the retribution which had hitherto always followed his little casual errors of industry followed them still . 
Before that time his friends were all sociable idlers like himself . 
Since that time the burden of bearing with a hard working young man has become part of his lot in life . 
The physical results of his accident have been related in a previous chapter . 
'How do you propose that we get through this present afternoon and evening ? demanded Thomas Idle , after two or three hours of the foregoing reflections at Allonby . 
At sight of this inspiring spectacle , which was visible from his sofa , Thomas Idle stretched his neck and dwelt upon it rapturously . 
So , the two idle apprentices followed the donkey until the night was far advanced . 
Whether he was recaptured by the town council , or is bolting at this hour through the United Kingdom , they know not . 
They hope he may be still bolting if so , their best wishes are with him . 
'An intermediate station on a line a junction anything of that sort , Thomas suggested . 
Mr. Goodchild approved of the idea as eccentric , and they journeyed on and on , until they came to such a station where there was an Inn . 
'Here , said Thomas , 'we may be luxuriously lazy other people will travel for us , as it were , and we shall laugh at their folly . 
It was a Junction Station , where the wooden razors before mentioned shaved the air very often , and where the sharp electric telegraph bell was in a very restless condition . 
, and to have retired from the world without any hope of getting back to it . 
Established at this Station , Mr. Thomas Idle and Mr. Francis Goodchild resolved to enjoy it . 
But , its contrasts were very violent , and there was also an infection in it . 
First , as to its contrasts . 
They were only two , but they were Lethargy and Madness . 
The Station was either totally unconscious , or wildly raving . 
One awkward shave of the air from the wooden razor , and everything changed . 
The pointsman aloft in the signal box made the motions of drawing , with some difficulty , hogsheads of beer . 
Down Train ! More bear ! Up Train ! More beer . 
Cross junction Train ! More beer ! Cattle Train ! More beer . 
Goods Train ! Simmering , whistling , trembling , rumbling , thundering . 
Trains on the whole confusion of intersecting rails , crossing one another , bumping one another , hissing one another , backing to go forward , tearing into distance to come close . 
Exiles seeking restoration to their native carriages , and banished to remoter climes . 
More beer and more bell . 
By night , in its unconscious state , the Station was not so much as visible . 
Something in the air , like an enterprising chemist's established in business on one of the boughs of Jack's beanstalk , was all that could be discerned of it under the stars . 
In a moment it would break out , a constellation of gas . 
In another moment , twenty rival chemists , on twenty rival beanstalks , came into existence . 
Then , the Furies would be seen , waving their lurid torches up and down the confused perspectives of embankments and arches would be heard , too , wailing and shrieking . 
But , to Thomas Idle , this contagion was so very unacceptable an incident of the situation , that he struck on the fourth day , and requested to be moved . 
'This place fills me with a dreadful sensation , said Thomas , 'of having something to do . 
'Where would you like to go next ? was the question of the ever engaging Goodchild . 
'Let us eat Bride cake without the trouble of being married , or of knowing anybody in that ridiculous dilemma . 
Mr. Goodchild , with a lover's sigh , assented . 
, and were delivered at the fine old house at Lancaster , on the same night . 
He therefore set himself next , to explore the country from the tops of all the steep hills in the neighbourhood . 
He came back at dinner time , red and glowing , to tell Thomas Idle what he had seen . 
'It would be work , then now , it's play . 
'Play ! replied Thomas Idle , utterly repudiating the reply . 
You don't know what it is . 
You make work of everything . 
The bright Goodchild amiably smiled . 
'So you do , said Thomas . 
To me you are an absolutely terrible fellow . 
You do nothing like another man . 
Where another fellow would fall into a footbath of action or emotion , you fall into a mine . 
Where any other fellow would be a painted butterfly , you are a fiery dragon . 
Where another man would stake a sixpence , you stake your existence . 
What a fellow you are , Francis ! The cheerful Goodchild laughed . 
'It's all very well to laugh , but I wonder you don't feel it to be serious , said Idle . 
'A man who can do nothing by halves appears to me to be a fearful man . 
With this philosophical rejoinder , the airy Goodchild clapped Mr. Idle on the shoulder in a final manner , and they sat down to dinner . 
'By the by , said Goodchild , 'I have been over a lunatic asylum too , since I have been out . 
'And what did you see there ? asked Mr. Idle , adapting Hamlet's advice to the occasion , and assuming the virtue of interest , though he had it not . 
'The usual thing , said Francis Goodchild , with a sigh . 
'Take a glass of wine with me , said Thomas Idle , 'and let US be social . 
'In one gallery , Tom , pursued Francis Goodchild , 'which looked to me about the length of the Long Walk at Windsor , more or less 'Probably less , observed Thomas Idle . 
What are you doing there ? said my conductor , when we came to him . 
He looked up , and pointed to the matting . 
I turned my head before we had gone many paces . 
He had already come out again , and was again poring over the matting , and tracking out its fibres with his thumb and forefinger . 
I had a sadder fellow feeling with the little dark chinned , meagre man , by that time , and I came away . 
Mr. Idle diverting the conversation to grouse , custards , and bride cake , Mr. Goodchild followed in the same direction . 
The bride cake was as bilious and indigestible as if a real Bride had cut it , and the dinner it completed was an admirable performance . 
It was then broad , bright day . 
Neither , had the old men , or any one of the old men , reappeared since . 
The two friends had passed a night in the house , but had seen nothing more of the old men . 
Another odd circumstance impressed itself on their attention . 
It was , that the door of their sitting room was never left untouched for a quarter of an hour . 
It was opened with hesitation , opened with confidence , opened a little way , opened a good way , always clapped to again without a word of explanation . 
Night had come again , and they had been writing for two or three hours writing , in short , a portion of the lazy notes from which these lazy sheets are taken . 
They had left off writing , and glasses were on the table between them . 
The house was closed and quiet . 
Around the head of Thomas Idle , as he lay upon his sofa , hovered light wreaths of fragrant smoke . 
The temples of Francis Goodchild , as he leaned back in his chair , with his two hands clasped behind his head , and his legs crossed , were similarly decorated . 
They were just becoming drowsy enough to be stopped in their talk by any such slight check . 
Thomas Idle , who was speaking at the moment , paused and said , 'How goes it ? 'One , said Goodchild . 
, the door opened , and One old man stood there . 
He did not come in , but stood with the door in his hand . 
'One of the six , Tom , at last ! said Mr. Goodchild , in a surprised whisper . 
'Sir , your pleasure ? 'Sir , YOUR pleasure ? said the One old man . 
'The bell did , said the One old man . 
He said BELL , in a deep , strong way , that would have expressed the church Bell . 
'I had the pleasure , I believe , of seeing you , yesterday ? said Goodchild . 
'I cannot undertake to say for certain , was the grim reply of the One old man . 
'I think you saw me ? Did you not ? 'Saw YOU ? said the old man . 
'O yes , I saw you . 
But , I see many who never see me . 
A chilled , slow , earthy , fixed old man . 
A cadaverous old man of measured speech . 
An old man who seemed as unable to wink , as if his eyelids had been nailed to his forehead . 
The night had turned so cold , to Mr. Goodchild's sensations , that he shivered . 
He remarked lightly , and half apologetically , 'I think somebody is walking over my grave . 
'No , said the weird old man , 'there is no one there . 
Mr. Goodchild looked at Idle , but Idle lay with his head enwreathed in smoke . 
'No one there ? said Goodchild . 
'There is no one at your grave , I assure you , said the old man . 
He had come in and shut the door , and he now sat down . 
He did not bend himself to sit , as other people do , but seemed to sink bolt upright , as if in water , until the chair stopped him . 
'My friend , Mr. Idle , said Goodchild , extremely anxious to introduce a third person into the conversation . 
'I am , said the old man , without looking at him , 'at Mr. Idle's service . 
'If you are an old inhabitant of this place , Francis Goodchild resumed . 
'Perhaps you can decide a point my friend and I were in doubt upon , this morning . 
They hang condemned criminals at the Castle , I believe ? 'I believe so , said the old man . 
'Are their faces turned towards that noble prospect ? 'Your face is turned , replied the old man , 'to the Castle wall . 
When you are tied up , you see its stones expanding and contracting violently , and a similar expansion and contraction seem to take place in your own head and breast . 
Then , there is a rush of fire and an earthquake , and the Castle springs into the air , and you tumble down a precipice . 
His cravat appeared to trouble him . 
He put his hand to his throat , and moved his neck from side to side . 
He was an old man of a swollen character of face , and his nose was immoveably hitched up on one side , as if by a little hook inserted in that nostril . 
Mr. Goodchild felt exceedingly uncomfortable , and began to think the night was hot , and not cold . 
'A strong description , sir , he observed . 
'A strong sensation , the old man rejoined . 
Again , Mr. Goodchild looked to Mr. Thomas Idle but Thomas lay on his back with his face attentively turned towards the One old man , and made no sign . 
At this time Mr. Goodchild believed that he saw threads of fire stretch from the old man's eyes to his own , and there attach themselves . 
'I must tell it to you , said the old man , with a ghastly and a stony stare . 
'What ? asked Francis Goodchild . 
'You know where it took place . 
Having pointed somewhere , it went out . 
'You know she was a Bride , said the old man . 
'I know they still send up Bride cake , Mr. Goodchild faltered . 
'This is a very oppressive air . 
'She was a Bride , said the old man . 
'She was a fair , flaxen haired , large eyed girl , who had no character , no purpose . 
A weak , credulous , incapable , helpless nothing . 
It was her father whose character she reflected . 
died of sheer helplessness no other disorder and then He renewed the acquaintance that had once subsisted between the mother and Him . 
He had been put aside for the flaxen haired , large eyed man with Money . 
He could overlook that for Money . 
He wanted compensation in Money . 
'So , he returned to the side of that woman the mother , made love to her again , danced attendance on her , and submitted himself to her whims . 
She wreaked upon him every whim she had , or could invent . 
And the more he bore , the more he wanted compensation in Money , and the more he was resolved to have it . 
'But , lo ! Before he got it , she cheated him . 
In one of her imperious states , she froze , and never thawed again . 
She put her hands to her head one night , uttered a cry , stiffened , lay in that attitude certain hours , and died . 
And he had got no compensation from her in Money , yet . 
Blight and Murrain on her ! Not a penny . 
'He had hated her throughout that second pursuit , and had longed for retaliation on her . 
'So , now there were only two left . 
Which two were , He , and the fair flaxen haired , large eyed foolish daughter , who afterwards became the Bride . 
'He put her to school . 
In a secret , dark , oppressive , ancient house , he put her to school with a watchful and unscrupulous woman . 
My worthy lady , he said , here is a mind to be formed will you help me to form it ? She accepted the trust . 
For which she , too , wanted compensation in Money , and had it . 
'The girl was formed in the fear of him , and in the conviction , that there was no escape from him . 
The poor fool was soft white wax in their hands , and took the impression that they put upon her . 
It became a part of herself . 
Inseparable from herself , and only to be torn away from her , by tearing life away from her . 
'Eleven years she had lived in the dark house and its gloomy garden . 
He was jealous of the very light and air getting to her , and they kept her close . 
He surrounded her with images of sorrow and desolation . 
She was twenty one years and twenty one days old , when he brought her home to the gloomy house , his half witted , frightened , and submissive Bride of three weeks . 
And if it were ? O sir ! she returned to him , look kindly on me , and be merciful to me ! I beg your pardon . 
But , she had long been in the way , and he had long been weary , and the work was near its end , and had to be worked out . 
You fool , he said . 
What are you afraid of ? Come and sit down by me . 
I will do anything you wish . 
I beg your pardon , sir . 
Forgive me ! Her monotonous tune as usual . 
Ellen , here is a writing that you must write out to morrow , in your own hand . 
You may as well be seen by others , busily engaged upon it . 
When you have written it all fairly , and corrected all mistakes , call in any two people there may be about the house , and sign your name to it before them . 
Then , put it in your bosom to keep it safe , and when I sit here again to morrow night , give it to me . 
I will do it all , with the greatest care . 
I will do anything you wish . 
Don't shake and tremble , then . 
I will try my utmost not to do it if you will only forgive me ! 'Next day , she sat down at her desk , and did as she had been told . 
'It secured all her possessions to him , in the event of her death . 
There were spots of ink upon the hand with which she stood before him , nervously plaiting and folding her white skirts . 
'He took her by the arm , and looked her , yet more closely and steadily , in the face . 
Now , die ! I have done with you . 
'She shrunk , and uttered a low , suppressed cry . 
I am not going to kill you . 
I will not endanger my life for yours . 
Die ! 'He sat before her in the gloomy Bride's Chamber , day after day , night after night , looking the word at her when he did not utter it . 
He knew it very well , and concentrated his strength against her feebleness . 
He computed the time to be half past four but , his forgotten watch had run down , and he could not be sure . 
O , forgive me ! I will do anything . 
'She was soon laid in the ground . 
And now they were all gone , and he had compensated himself well . 
'He had a mind to travel . 
, but , that he had grown tired of the desolate house and wished to turn his back upon it and have done with it . 
But , the house was worth Money , and Money must not be thrown away . 
He determined to sell it before he went . 
'He worked , himself , along with them . 
He worked later than they did , and , one evening at dusk , was left working alone , with his bill hook in his hand . 
One autumn evening , when the Bride was five weeks dead . 
It grows too dark to work longer , he said to himself , I must give over for the night . 
'He detested the house , and was loath to enter it . 
He looked at the dark porch waiting for him like a tomb , and felt that it was an accursed house . 
Near to the porch , and near to where he stood , was a tree whose branches waved before the old bay window of the Bride's Chamber , where it had been done . 
The tree swung suddenly , and made him start . 
It swung again , although the night was still . 
Looking up into it , he saw a figure among the branches . 
'It was the figure of a young man . 
The face looked down , as his looked up the branches cracked and swayed the figure rapidly descended , and slid upon its feet before him . 
A slender youth of about her age , with long light brown hair . 
What thief are you ? he said , seizing the youth by the collar . 
'The young man , in shaking himself free , swung him a blow with his arm across the face and throat . 
For , the young man's look was the counterpart of her last look , and he had not expected ever to see that again . 
Even if I were , I would not have a coin of your wealth , if it would buy me the Indies . 
You murderer ! What ! I climbed it , said the young man , pointing up into the tree , for the first time , nigh four years ago . 
I climbed it , to look at her . 
I have climbed it , many a time , to watch and listen for her . 
I was a boy , hidden among its leaves , when from that bay window she gave me this ! 'He showed a tress of flaxen hair , tied with a mourning ribbon . 
Her life , said the young man , was a life of mourning . 
She gave me this , as a token of it , and a sign that she was dead to every one but you . 
If I had been older , if I had seen her sooner , I might have saved her from you . 
Murderer ! I climbed the tree on the night when you brought her back . 
I heard her , from the tree , speak of the Death watch at the door . 
I was three times in the tree while you were shut up with her , slowly killing her . 
I saw her , from the tree , lie dead upon her bed . 
I have watched you , from the tree , for proofs and traces of your guilt . 
The manner of it , is a mystery to me yet , but I will pursue you until you have rendered up your life to the hangman . 
You shall never , until then , be rid of me . 
I loved her ! I can know no relenting towards you . 
Murderer , I loved her ! 'The youth was bare headed , his hat having fluttered away in his descent from the tree . 
He moved towards the gate . 
He had to pass Him to get to it . 
had not stirred hand or foot , since he had stood still to look at the boy . 
He faced round , now , to follow him with his eyes . 
As the back of the bare light brown head was turned to him , he saw a red curve stretch from his hand to it . 
It cleft the head , and it remained there , and the boy lay on his face . 
'He buried the body in the night , at the foot of the tree . 
As soon as it was light in the morning , he worked at turning up all the ground near the tree , and hacking and hewing at the neighbouring bushes and undergrowth . 
When the labourers came , there was nothing suspicious , and nothing suspected . 
'But , he had , in a moment , defeated all his precautions , and destroyed the triumph of the scheme he had so long concerted , and so successfully worked out . 
'Beyond this , he was chained to the house of gloom and horror , which he could not endure . 
Being afraid to sell it or to quit it , lest discovery should be made , he was forced to live in it . 
He hired two old people , man and wife , for his servants and dwelt in it , and dreaded it . 
His great difficulty , for a long time , was the garden . 
And he made himself an arbour over against the tree , where he could sit and see that it was safe . 
'As the seasons changed , and the tree changed , his mind perceived dangers that were always changing . 
He was in the dark trade , the gold dust trade , and most secret trades that yielded great returns . 
'He possessed his riches one hundred years ago , when people could be lost easily . 
He had heard who the youth was , from hearing of the search that was made after him but , it died away , and the youth was forgotten . 
'The annual round of changes in the tree had been repeated ten times since the night of the burial at its foot , when there was a great thunder storm over this place . 
It broke at midnight , and roared until morning . 
The first intelligence he heard from his old serving man that morning , was , that the tree had been struck by Lightning . 
The fissure went down the tree to a little above the earth , and there stopped . 
'They quickly began to come , in such dangerous numbers , that he closed his garden gate and refused to admit any more . 
Never , while he lived ! They offered money for it . 
, but he soon dreamed of picks and shovels , and got up . 
It was found ! They had that minute lighted on it . 
They were all bending over it . 
Before a week was out , he was taken and laid in hold . 
The circumstances were gradually pieced together against him , with a desperate malignity , and an appalling ingenuity . 
But , see the justice of men , and how it was extended to him ! He was further accused of having poisoned that girl in the Bride's Chamber . 
Bloodthirsty wretches ! They would have made him Guilty of anything , so set they were upon having his life . 
'His money could do nothing to save him , and he was hanged . 
But , the two fiery lines extending from the old man's eyes to his own , kept him down , and he could not utter a sound . 
His sense of hearing , however , was acute , and he could hear the clock strike Two . 
No sooner had he heard the clock strike Two , than he saw before him Two old men ! TWO . 
Differing in nothing , equally distinct to the sight , the copy no fainter than the original , the second as real as the first . 
'At what time , said the Two old men , 'did you arrive at the door below ? 'At Six . 
It WAS haunted , and I was there . 
She and I were there . 
I , in the chair upon the hearth she , a white wreck again , trailing itself towards me on the floor . 
But , I was the speaker no more , and the one word that she said to me from midnight until dawn was , 'Live ! 'The youth was there , likewise . 
In the tree outside the window . 
Coming and going in the moonlight , as the tree bent and gave . 
Not so my old dungeon . 
Not so the rooms where I was restless and afraid , ten years . 
Both are fitfully haunted then . 
At One in the morning . 
I am what you saw me when the clock struck that hour One old man . 
At Two in the morning , I am Two old men . 
At Three , I am Three . 
By Twelve at noon , I am Twelve old men , One for every hundred per cent . 
Every one of the Twelve , with Twelve times my old power of suffering and agony . 
From that hour until Twelve at night , I , Twelve old men in anguish and fearful foreboding , wait for the coming of the executioner . 
I waited for the coming of two living men together into the Bride's Chamber , years upon years . 
that if two living men , with their eyes open , could be in the Bride's Chamber at One in the morning , they would see me sitting in my chair . 
'At length , the whispers that the room was spiritually troubled , brought two men to try the adventure . 
, when I heard them ascending the stairs . 
Next , I saw them enter . 
One of them was a bold , gay , active man , in the prime of life , some five and forty years of age the other , a dozen years younger . 
They brought provisions with them in a basket , and bottles . 
A young woman accompanied them , with wood and coals for the lighting of the fire . 
His companion did the same , and was as cheerful and confident as he though he was the leader . 
When they had supped , they laid pistols on the table , turned to the fire , and began to smoke their pipes of foreign make . 
'They had travelled together , and had been much together , and had an abundance of subjects in common . 
In the midst of their talking and laughing , the younger man made a reference to the leader's being always ready for any adventure that one , or any other . 
He replied in these words Not quite so , Dick if I am afraid of nothing else , I am afraid of myself . 
'His companion seeming to grow a little dull , asked him , in what sense ? How ? Why , thus , he returned . 
Here is a Ghost to be disproved . 
Well ! I cannot answer for what my fancy might do if I were alone here , or what tricks my senses might play with me if they had me to themselves . 
But , in company with another man , and especially with Dick , I would consent to outface all the Ghosts that were ever of in the universe . 
I had not the vanity to suppose that I was of so much importance to night , said the other . 
'It was within a few minutes of One . 
The head of the younger man had drooped when he made his last remark , and it drooped lower now . 
Keep awake , Dick ! said the leader , gaily . 
The small hours are the worst . 
'He tried , but his head drooped again . 
Dick ! urged the leader . 
Keep awake ! I can't , he indistinctly muttered . 
I don't know what strange influence is stealing over me . 
Get up and walk , Dick ! cried the leader . 
Try ! 'It was in vain to go behind the slumber's chair and shake him . 
One o'clock sounded , and I was present to the elder man , and he stood transfixed before me . 
'To him alone , I was obliged to relate my story , without hope of benefit . 
To him alone , I was an awful phantom making a quite useless confession . 
I foresee it will ever be the same . 
The two living men together will never come to release me . 
Being then out of bonds , he caught up Mr. Idle from the sofa and rushed down stairs with him . 
'What are you about , Francis ? demanded Mr. Idle . 
'My bedroom is not down here . 
What the deuce are you carrying me at all for ? I can walk with a stick now . 
I don't want to be carried . 
Mr. Goodchild put him down in the old hall , and looked about him wildly . 
'What are you doing ? Idiotically plunging at your own sex , and rescuing them or perishing in the attempt ? asked Mr. Idle , in a highly petulant state . 
The same peculiar sensitiveness impelled Mr. Goodchild , on being taxed with the same crime , to repudiate it with honourable resentment . 
The settlement of the question of The One old man and The Two old men was thus presently complicated , and soon made quite impracticable . 
Mr. Idle said it was all Bride cake , and fragments , newly arranged , of things seen and thought about in the day . 
They consequently parted for the rest of the night , at their bedroom doors , a little ruffled . 
, every sensation and experience , the present record of which is now within a line or two of completion and that he would write it out and print it every word . 
Mr. Idle returned that he might if he liked and he did like , and has now done it . 
, deep in the manufacturing bosom of Yorkshire . 
There seemed to have been some large vocal gathering near to every lonely station on the line . 
These towns looked , in the cinderous wet , as though they had one and all been on fire and were just put out a dreary and quenched panorama , many miles long . 
Next day , the first of the Race Week , they took train to Doncaster . 
And instantly the character , both of travellers and of luggage , entirely changed , and no other business than race business any longer existed on the face of the earth . 
The talk was all of horses and 'John Scott . 
Guards whispered behind their hands to station masters , of horses and John Scott . 
Breaks and barriers at Doncaster Station to keep the crowd off temporary wooden avenues of ingress and egress , to help the crowd on . 
Travellers disgorged into an open space , a howling wilderness of idle men . 
All work but race work at a stand still all men at a stand still . 
'Ey my word ! Deant ask noon o' us to help wi' t'luggage . 
Bock your opinion loike a mon . 
Grand Dramatic Company from London for the Race Week . 
Poses Plastiques in the Grand Assembly Room up the Stable Yard at seven and nine each evening , for the Race Week . 
Grand Alliance Circus in the field beyond the bridge , for the Race Week . 
Grand Exhibition of Aztec Lilliputians , important to all who want to be horrified cheap , for the Race Week . 
The idea pervaded , like the second colour in shot silk , the whole of Mr. Goodchild's impressions . 
They were much as follows Monday , mid day . 
Frightened lunatic horses occasionally running away , with infinite clatter . 
All degrees of men , from peers to paupers , betting incessantly . 
Keepers very watchful , and taking all good chances . 
An awful family likeness among the Keepers , to Mr. Palmer and Mr. Thurtell . 
, I never have seen anywhere , so many repetitions of one class of countenance and one character of head as in this street at this time . 
Cunning , covetousness , secrecy , cold calculation , hard callousness and dire insensibility , are the uniform Keeper characteristics . 
Mr. Palmer passes me five times in five minutes , and , so I go down the street , the back of Mr. Thurtell's skull is always going on before me . 
Town lighted up more Lunatics out than ever a complete choke and stoppage of the thoroughfare outside the Betting Rooms . 
Keepers , having dined , pervade the Betting Rooms , and sharply snap at the moneyed Lunatics . 
Some Keepers flushed with drink , and some not , but all close and calculating . 
A vague echoing roar of 't'harses' and 't'races' always rising in the air , until midnight , at about which period it dies away in occasional drunken songs and straggling yells . 
Tuesday morning , at daybreak . 
A sudden rising , as it were out of the earth , of all the obscene creatures , who sell 'correct cards of the races . 
There is nobody up , to buy the cards but , the cards are madly cried . 
There is no patronage to quarrel for but , they madly quarrel and fight . 
A walk in the wrong direction may be a better thing for Mr. Goodchild to day than the Course , so he walks in the wrong direction . 
Everybody gone to the races . 
Only children in the street . 
A pleasant road , pleasantly wooded . 
No labourers working in the fields all gone 't'races . 
The few late wenders of their way 't'races , who are yet left driving on the road , stare in amazement at the recluse who is not going 't'races . 
Roadside innkeeper has gone 't'races . 
Turnpike man has gone 't'races . 
His thrifty wife , washing clothes at the toll house door , is going 't'races' to morrow . 
Perhaps there may be no one left to take the toll to morrow who knows ? Though assuredly that would be neither turnpike like nor Yorkshire like . 
The very wind and dust seem to be hurrying 't'races , as they briskly pass the only wayfarer on the road . 
In the distance , the Railway Engine , waiting at the town end , shrieks despairingly . 
Nothing but the difficulty of getting off the Line , restrains that Engine from going 't'races , too , it is very clear . 
At night , more Lunatics out than last night and more Keepers . 
The latter very active at the Betting Rooms , the street in front of which is now impassable . 
Roar and uproar as before . 
Unmannerly drinking house expectorates as before . 
Drunken negro melodists , Gong donkey , and correct cards , in the night . 
On Wednesday morning , the morning of the great St . 
Leger , it becomes apparent that there has been a great influx since yesterday , both of Lunatics and Keepers . 
The families of the tradesmen over the way are no longer within human ken their places know them no more ten , fifteen , and twenty guinea lodgers fill them . 
At the pastry cook's second floor window , a Keeper is brushing Mr. Thurtell's hair thinking it his own . 
In the wax chandler's attic , another Keeper is putting on Mr. Palmer's braces . 
In the gunsmith's nursery , a Lunatic is shaving himself . 
devil , and drinking neat brandy in an atmosphere of last midnight's cigars . 
By one o'clock , all this stir has gone out of the streets , and there is no one left in them but Francis Goodchild . 
Francis Goodchild will not be left in them long for , he too is on his way , 't'races . 
Mr. Goodchild would appear to have been by no means free from lunacy himself at 't'races , though not of the prevalent kind . 
He is suspected by Mr. Idle to have fallen into a dreadful state concerning a pair of little lilac gloves and a little bonnet that he saw there . 
Leger that shall never be run ! Thursday morning . 
After a tremendous night of crowding , shouting , drinking house expectoration , Gong donkey , and correct cards . 
Symptoms of yesterday's gains in the way of drink , and of yesterday's losses in the way of money , abundant . 
As usual , nobody seems to have won but , large losses and many losers are unquestionable facts . 
Both Lunatics and Keepers , in general very low . 
Several of both kinds look in at the chemist's while Mr. Goodchild is making a purchase there , to be 'picked up . 
Spanish Cavalier appears to have lost yesterday , and jingles his bossed bridle with disgust , as if he were paying . 
Town filled as yesterday , but not so full and emptied as yesterday , but not so empty . 
At night , the theatre . 
These boys are , no doubt , going up to morrow with THEIR sums and figures . 
A most odious tendency observable in these distinguished gentlemen to put vile constructions on sufficiently innocent phrases in the play , and then to applaud them in a Satyr like manner . 
Behind Mr. Goodchild , with a party of other Lunatics and one Keeper , the express incarnation of the thing called a 'gent . 
A gentleman born a gent manufactured . 
The thing is but a boy in years , and is addled with drink . 
Gong donkey , and correct cards . 
Again , a great set towards the races , though not so great a set as on Wednesday . 
The course as pretty as ever the great pincushion as like a pincushion , but not nearly so full of pins whole rows of pins wanting . 
After the great event , rills begin to flow from the pincushion towards the railroad the rills swell into rivers the rivers soon unite into a lake . 
No turtle and venison ordinary this evening that is all over . 
Mr. Idle wishes to know at breakfast , what were those dreadful groanings in his bedroom doorway in the night ? Mr. Goodchild answers , Nightmare . 
Mr. Idle repels the calumny , and calls the waiter . 
He does not bet on the races , like the sporting men . 
He does not assist the races , like the jockeys , starters , judges , and grooms . 
He does not look on at the races , like Mr. Goodchild and his fellow spectators . 
He does not profit by the races , like the hotel keepers and the tradespeople . 
He does not minister to the necessities of the races , like the booth keepers , the postilions , the waiters , and the hawkers of Lists . 
He does not assist the attractions of the races , like the actors at the theatre , the riders at the circus , or the posturers at the Poses Plastiques . 
Who is this modern hermit , this recluse of the St . 
Thomas , however , steadily declined profiting by the suggestion . 
'The farther I am from the window , he said , 'the better , Brother Francis , I shall be pleased . 
I have nothing in common with the one prevalent idea of all those people who are passing in the street . 
to the disastrous distinction of being unpartaken by any other human being , civilised or savage , over the whole surface of the earth . 
Taking the horse as an animal in the abstract , Francis , I cordially despise him from every point of view . 
'Thomas , said Goodchild , 'confinement to the house has begun to affect your biliary secretions . 
I shall go to the chemist's and get you some physic . 
I protest against the conventional idea of beauty , as attached to that animal . 
ridiculously thin by comparison with the size of his body . 
Again , considering how big an animal he is , I object to the contemptible delicacy of his constitution . 
Other animals can make their own toilette he must have a groom . 
You will tell me that this is because we want to make his coat artificially glossy . 
His one idea , when he hears a noise that he is not accustomed to , is to run away from it . 
I prefer coming at once to my last charge against the horse , which is the most serious of all , because it affects his moral character . 
I accuse him boldly , in his capacity of servant to man , of slyness and treachery . 
What do you mean by laughing and shaking your head at me ? 'Oh , Thomas , Thomas ! said Goodchild . 
'You had better give me my hat you had better let me get you that physic . 
You shall have two instances , two overwhelming instances . 
Some years ago , I was in Shetland with a party of friends . 
They insisted on taking me with them to the top of a precipice that overhung the sea . 
It was a great distance off , but they all determined to walk to it except me . 
I was wiser then than I was with you at Carrock , and I determined to be carried to the precipice . 
to bring me a sedan chair , which is naturally what I should have liked best . 
A Shetland pony was produced instead . 
And how did he repay that confidence ? Brother Francis , carry your mind on from morning to noon . 
Picture to yourself a howling wilderness of grass and bog , bounded by low stony hills . 
'You shall have it in a minute , rejoined Thomas . 
'My second instance is more appropriate to the present time and place , for it refers to a race horse . 
From a foal upwards this remarkable animal had been the idlest and most sluggish of his race . 
Whatever capacities for speed he might possess he had kept so strictly to himself , that no amount of training had ever brought them out . 
When I heard this account of the horse , I don't mind confessing that my heart warmed to him . 
I went to look at the horse in the stable . 
Nice fellow ! he was fast asleep with a kitten on his back . 
I saw him taken out for an airing by the groom . 
From that moment I gratefully accepted my friend's offer . 
I went home the horse followed me by a slow train . 
If I thought a little of myself when I bought the softest saddle that could be had for money , I thought also of my horse . 
When the man at the shop afterwards offered me spurs and a whip , I turned from him with horror . 
When I sallied out for my first ride , I went purposely unarmed with the means of hurrying my steed . 
For a week this complete harmony between me and my horse lasted undisturbed . 
, the smouldering treachery and ingratitude of the equine nature blazed out in an instant . 
He kicked , he plunged , he shied , he pranced , he capered fearfully . 
I sat on him as long as I could , and when I could sit no longer , I fell off . 
No , Francis ! this is not a circumstance to be laughed at , but to be wept over . 
The tiger who springs out on me unawares has the excuse of being hungry at the time , to say nothing of the further justification of being a total stranger to me . 
I defy the whole body of Natural Historians to move me , logically , off the ground that I have taken in regard to the horse . 
Receive back your hat , Brother Francis , and go to the chemist's , if you please for I have now done . 
Ask me to take anything you like , except an interest in the Doncaster races . 
Ask me to look at anything you like , except an assemblage of people all animated by feelings of a friendly and admiring nature towards the horse . 
You are a remarkably well informed man , and you have heard of hermits . 
Look upon me as a member of that ancient fraternity , and you will sensibly add to the many obligations which Thomas Idle is proud to owe to Francis Goodchild . 
Here , fatigued by the effort of excessive talking , disputatious Thomas waved one hand languidly , laid his head back on the sofa pillow , and calmly closed his eyes . 
At a later period , Mr. Goodchild assailed his travelling companion boldly from the impregnable fortress of common sense . 
But Thomas , though tamed in body by drastic discipline , was still as mentally unapproachable as ever on the subject of his favourite delusion . 
The view from the window after Saturday's breakfast is altogether changed . 
The tradesmen's families have all come back again . 
The Angel , which has been cleared for action all the week , already begins restoring every neat and comfortable article of furniture to its own neat and comfortable place . 
, have a little time to rest , and to air their cheerful faces among the flowers in the yard . 
The market looks unusually natural , comfortable , and wholesome the market people too . 
advances at the Gong donkey , with a hand on each thigh , in a series of humorous springs and stops , wagging his head as he comes . 
The astonished Jackall closes with the Donkey , and they roll over and over in the mud , pummelling one another . 
The Gong donkey , captive and last trace of it , conveyed into limbo , where they cannot do better than keep him until next Race Week . 
The Jackall is wanted too , and is much looked for , over the way and up and down . 
But , having had the good fortune to be undermost at the time of the capture , he has vanished into air . 
On Saturday afternoon , Mr. Goodchild walks out and looks at the Course . 
