Lavengro , The Scholar , The Gypsy , The Priest By George Borrow . 
Scanned and proofed by David Price , email ccx coventry . 
The principal actors in this dream , or drama , are , as you will have gathered from the title page , a Scholar , a Gypsy , and a Priest . 
Should you imagine that these three form one , permit me to assure you that you are very much mistaken . 
Should there be something of the Gypsy manifest in the Scholar , there is certainly nothing of the Priest . 
Many characters which may be called subordinate will be found , and it is probable that some of these characters will afford much more interest to the reader than those styled the principal . 
The favourites with the writer are a brave old soldier and his helpmate , an ancient gentlewoman who sold apples , and a strange kind of wandering man and his wife . 
Yet let no one think that irreligion is advocated in this book . 
With respect to religious tenets I wish to observe that I am a member of the Church of England , into whose communion I was baptized , and to which my forefathers belonged . 
By the other Church , I mean Rome . 
Its system was once prevalent in England , and , during the period that it prevailed there , was more prolific of debasement and crime than all other causes united . 
But now again the damnation cry is withdrawn , there is a subdued meekness in your demeanour , you are now once more harmless as a lamb . 
Well , we shall see how the trick 'the old trick' will serve you . 
CHAPTER I Birth My father Tamerlane Ben Brain French Protestants East Anglia Sorrow and troubles True peace A beautiful child Foreign grave Mirrors Alpine country Emblems Slow of speech The Jew Strange gestures . 
ON an evening of July , in the year , at East D , a beautiful little town in a certain district of East Anglia , I first saw the light . 
My father was a Cornish man , the youngest , as I have heard him say , of seven brothers . 
The name of my father's antagonist was Brain . 
You no longer smile , even YOU have heard of Big Ben . 
I have already hinted that my father never rose to any very exalted rank in his profession , notwithstanding his prowess and other qualifications . 
, she had attained the middle age before I was born , no children having been vouchsafed to my parents in the early stages of their union . 
No more earthly cares and affections now , my mother ! Yes , one . 
Singular ! And now there is a pause , a long pause . 
My dearest Son ! My darling Mother ! Yes , mother , thou didst recognise in the distant street the hoof tramp of the wanderer's horse . 
I was not the only child of my parents I had a brother some three years older than myself . 
He mastered his letters in a few hours , and in a day or two could decipher the names of people on the doors of houses and over the shop windows . 
Perhaps it will be asked here , what became of him ? Alas ! alas ! his was an early and a foreign grave . 
As I have said before , the race is not always for the swift , nor the battle for the strong . 
But he must excuse me I have no intention of drawing a portrait of myself in childhood indeed it would be difficult , for at that time I never looked into mirrors . 
I am no moraliser but the gay and rapid river , and the dark and silent lake , were , of a verity , no had emblems of us two . 
A lover of nooks and retired corners , I was as a child in the habit of fleeing from society , and of sitting for hours together with my head on my breast . 
By nature slow of speech , I took no pleasure in conversation , nor in hearing the voices of my fellow creatures . 
I was as much disliked as my brother was deservedly beloved and admired . 
My parents , it is true , were always kind to me and my brother , who was good nature itself , was continually lavishing upon me every mark of affection . 
There was , however , one individual who , in the days of my childhood , was disposed to form a favourable opinion of me . 
The Jew looked at me again , and then said ''Pon my conscience , my dear , I believe that you must be troubled there yourself to tell me any such thing . 
CHAPTER II Barracks and lodgings A camp The viper A delicate child Blackberry time MEUN and TUUM Hythe The Golgotha Daneman's skull Superhuman stature Stirring times The sea bord . 
I HAVE been a wanderer the greater part of my life indeed I remember only two periods , and these by no means lengthy , when I was , strictly speaking , stationary . 
It happened that my brother and myself were playing one evening in a sandy lane , in the neighbourhood of this Pett camp our mother was at a slight distance . 
Uttering a cry of pleasure , I sprang forward , and seized it nearly by the middle . 
A strange sensation of numbing coldness seemed to pervade my whole arm , which surprised me the more , as the object to the eye appeared so warm and sunlike . 
I did not drop it , however , but , holding it up , looked at it intently , as its head dangled about a foot from my hand . 
It made no resistance I felt not even the slightest struggle but now my brother began to scream and shriek like one possessed . 
The viper now hissed amain , and raised its head , in which were eyes like hot coals , menacing , not myself , but my brother . 
Philosophy can explain many strange things , but there are some which are a far pitch above her , and this is one . 
I should scarcely relate another circumstance which occurred about this time but for a singular effect which it produced upon my constitution . 
It happened that my brother and myself were disporting ourselves in certain fields near the good town of Canterbury . 
Now it chanced to be blackberry time , and the two children wandered under the hedges , peering anxiously among them in quest of that trash so grateful to urchins of their degree . 
We did not find much of it , however , and were soon separated in the pursuit . 
All at once I stood still , and could scarcely believe my eyes . 
I know not how I argued the matter in my mind the temptation , however , was at last too strong for me , so I stretched forth my hand and ate . 
How long I continued eating I scarcely know . 
Another circumstance connected with my infancy , and I have done . 
I need offer no apology for relating it , as it subsequently exercised considerable influence over my pursuits . 
We were , if I remember right , in the vicinity of a place called Hythe , in Kent . 
One sweet evening , in the latter part of summer , our mother took her two little boys by the hand , for a wander about the fields . 
We were presently in the interior , wandering about the aisles , looking on the walls , and inspecting the monuments of the notable dead . 
And now once more we were outside the building , where , against the wall , stood a low eaved pent house , into which we looked . 
It was half filled with substances of some kind , which at first looked like large gray stones . 
There were many more when I was young , but now they are fast disappearing . 
Some of them must have belonged to strange fellows , madam . 
One enormous skull , lying in a corner , had fixed our attention , and we had drawn it forth . 
Pleasant were these days of my early boyhood and a melancholy pleasure steals over me as I recall them . 
Those were stirring times of which I am speaking , and there was much passing around me calculated to captivate the imagination . 
'Love your country and beat the French , and then never mind what happens , was the cry of entire England . 
Stirring times those , which I love to recall , for they were days of gallantry and enthusiasm , and were moreover the days of my boyhood . 
Pretty quiet D , with thy venerable church , in which moulder the mortal remains of England's sweetest and most pious bard . 
Yes , pretty D , I could always love thee , were it but for the sake of him who sleeps beneath the marble slab in yonder quiet chancel . 
It was within thee that the long oppressed bosom heaved its last sigh , and the crushed and gentle spirit escaped from a world in which it had known nought but sorrow . 
But to return to my own history . 
Let but the will of a human being be turned to any particular object , and it is ten to one that sooner or later he achieves it . 
Such a feeling was now within me , certainly independent of what the eye had seen or the ear had heard . 
I now took up the third book it did not resemble the others , being longer and considerably thicker the binding was of dingy calf skin . 
I opened it , and as I did so another strange thrill of pleasure shot through my frame . 
A wild scene it was a heavy sea and rocky shore , with mountains in the background , above which the moon was peering . 
I almost thought I heard its cry . 
I remained motionless , gazing upon the picture , scarcely daring to draw my breath , lest the new and wondrous world should vanish of which I had now obtained a glimpse . 
'He must be drowned ! he must be drowned ! I almost shrieked , and dropped the book . 
For hours together I would sit poring over a page till I had become acquainted with the import of every line . 
And it was in this manner that I first took to the paths of knowledge . 
About this time I began to be somewhat impressed with religious feelings . 
But my mind had now become awakened from the drowsy torpor in which it had lain so long , and the reasoning powers which I possessed were no longer inactive . 
The power and terrors of God were uppermost in my thoughts they fascinated though they astounded me . 
Thou didst divide the sea , through thy power thou brakest the heads of the dragons in the waters . 
Thou smotest the heads of Leviathan in pieces and gavest him to be meat for the people in the wilderness . 
Thou broughtest out fountains , and waters out of the hard rocks thou driedst up mighty waters . 
The day is thine , and the night is thine thou hast prepared the light and the sun . 
For this place he departed , leaving my mother and myself to follow in a few days . 
Our journey was a singular one . 
On the second day we reached a marshy and fenny country , which , owing to immense quantities of rain which had lately fallen , was completely submerged . 
Nightfall brought us to Peterborough , and from thence we were not slow in reaching the place of our destination . 
Such was the station or prison at Norman Cross , where some six thousand French and other foreigners , followers of the grand Corsican , were now immured . 
Ah ! there was much misery in those casernes and from those roofs , doubtless , many a wistful look was turned in the direction of lovely France . 
Much had the poor inmates to endure , and much to complain of , to the disgrace of England be it said of England , in general so kind and bountiful . 
It was flat and somewhat fenny , a district more of pasture than agriculture , and not very thickly inhabited . 
I soon became well acquainted with it . 
Here , surrounded with woods and thick groves , was the seat of some ancient family , deserted by the proprietor , and only inhabited by a rustic servant or two . 
A place more solitary and wild could scarcely be imagined the garden and walks were overgrown with weeds and briers , and the unpruned woods were so tangled as to be almost impervious . 
There was a kind of scuffling noise , the rustling of branches , and the crackling of dry sticks . 
As I was returning , towards the evening , I overtook the old man , who was wending in the same direction . 
'Good evening to you , sir , said I , taking off a cap which I wore on my head . 
'I beg your pardon , said I , 'if I was frothy and conceited it ill becomes a child like me to be so . 
'That's true , dear , said the old man 'well , as you have begged my pardon , I truly forgive you . 
'And do you get your living by hunting these creatures ? I demanded . 
'And do you live in the neighbourhood ? I demanded . 
'You seem very fond of asking questions , child . 
No , I do not live in this neighbourhood in particular , I travel about I have not been in this neighbourhood till lately for some years . 
He generally carried a viper with him which he had made quite tame , and from which he had extracted the poisonous fangs it would dance and perform various kinds of tricks . 
He was fond of telling me anecdotes connected with his adventures with the reptile species . 
I got a fright some years ago , which I am quite sure I shall never get the better of my hand has been shaky more or less ever since . 
'I don't care , said I 'I don't intend to follow the business I daresay I shall be an officer , like my father . 
'And where did you see him ? said I. 'I will tell you , said the old man , 'though I don't like talking about the matter . 
It was a very sultry day , I remember , and I had been out several hours catching creatures . 
It might be about five yards off when I first saw it , making straight towards me , child , as if it would devour me . 
Whereupon the viper sunk its head , and immediately made off over the ridge of the hill , down in the direction of the sea . 
'Is King George , then , different from other people ? I demanded . 
The French don't like the water neither vipers nor Frenchmen take kindly to the water , child . 
I was in the habit of feeding it with milk , and frequently carried it abroad with me in my walks . 
Suddenly a group of objects attracted my attention . 
I retreated a few steps , yet without turning to flee . 
Such were the two beings who now came rushing upon me the man was rather in advance , brandishing a ladle in his hand . 
'Your properties ! said I 'I am in the King's Lane . 
'I'll strangle thee , said the beldame , dashing at me . 
'Bad money , is it ? 'Leave him to me , wifelkin , said the man , interposing 'you shall now see how I'll baste him down the lane . 
He stood in this manner for some time at last the ladle fell from his hand , and its falling appeared to rouse him from his stupor . 
He placed it on the ground , close by the door of the tent , first rubbing it with his sleeve , as if for the purpose of polishing its surface . 
Now , my precious little gentleman , do sit down here by the poor people's tent we wish to be civil in our slight way . 
Don't be angry , and say no but look kindly upon us , and satisfied , my precious little God Almighty . 
Yes , my gorgeous angel , sit down by the poor bodies' fire , and eat a sweetmeat . 
We want to ask you a question or two only first put that serpent away . 
Never fear , my tiny tawny , we can give you one , such as you never ate , I daresay , however far you may have come from . 
The serpent sank into its usual resting place , and I sat down on the stool . 
The woman opened a box , and took out a strange little basket or hamper , not much larger than a man's fist , and formed of a delicate kind of matting . 
'There , my tiny , said she 'taste , and tell me how you like them . 
Of course , my gorgeous , of course you would and quite right too . 
Meddle with you ! what right have we ? I should say , it would not be quite safe . 
I see how it is you are one of them there and he bent his head towards his left shoulder . 
Yes , I am one of them for I thought he was alluding to the soldiers , you had best mind what you are about , I can tell you . 
Don't doubt we will for our own sake Lord bless you , wifelkin , only think that we should see one of them there when we least thought about it . 
Well , I have heard of such things , though I never thought to see one however , seeing is believing . 
Well ! now you are come , and are not going to do us any mischief , I hope you will stay you can do us plenty of good if you will . 
What good could I do you ? MAN . 
What good ? plenty ! Would you not bring us luck ? I have heard say that one of them there always does , if it will but settle down . 
Stay with us , you shall have a tilted cart all to yourself if you like . 
We'll make you our little God Almighty , and say our prayers to you every morning ! MYSELF . 
That would be nice and , if you were to give me plenty of these things , I should have no objection . 
But what would my father say ? I think he would hardly let me . 
Why not ? he would be with you and kindly would we treat him . 
Indeed , without your father you would be nothing at all . 
That's true but I do not think he could be spared from his regiment . 
I have heard him say that they could do nothing without him . 
His regiment ! What are you talking about ? what does the child mean ? MYSELF . 
What do I mean ! why , that my father is an officer man at the barracks yonder , keeping guard over the French prisoners . 
Oh ! then that sap is not your father ? MYSELF . 
What , the snake ? Why , no ! Did you think he was ? MAN . 
To be sure we did . 
Didn't you tell me so ? MYSELF . 
Why , yes but who would have thought you would have believed it ? It is a tame one . 
I hunt vipers , and tame them . 
They then entered into discourse with each other in the same strange tongue which had already puzzled me . 
At length the man looked me in the face , and said , somewhat hesitatingly , 'So you are not one of them there after all ? MYSELF . 
One of them there ? I don't know what you mean . 
'I shouldn't wonder , said I. MAN . 
I say , Jasper , here's a young sap engro that can read , and is more fly than yourself . 
Shake hands with him I wish ye to be two brothers . 
'There , Jasper ! shake hands with the sap engro . 
'Can he box , father ? said Jasper , surveying me rather contemptuously . 
'I should think not , he looks so puny and small . 
The steed which carried him was of iron gray , spirited and powerful , but covered with sweat and foam . 
The fellow glanced fiercely and suspiciously around , and said something to the man of the tent in a harsh and rapid voice . 
A short and hurried conversation ensued in the strange tongue . 
I could not take my eyes off this new comer . 
However , before I go , you had better give me all you have of that . 
'Truly spoken , Nat , my pal , said the man 'give it him , mother . 
There it is now be off as soon as you please , and rid us of evil company . 
The woman had handed him two bags formed of stocking , half full of something heavy , which looked through them for all the world like money of some kind . 
The strange people were not slow in completing their preparations , and then , flogging their animals terrifically , hurried away seemingly in the same direction . 
The boy Jasper was last of the band . 
Then whining forth , 'What a sap engro , lor ! he gave me a parting leer , and hastened away . 
I remained standing in the lane gazing after the retreating company . 
Under his instruction , however , I continued only a few weeks , as we speedily left the place . 
You are now removing him from my care you do wrong , but we will let that pass . 
Listen to me there is but one good school book in the world the one I use in my seminary Lilly's Latin grammar , in which your son has already made some progress . 
If you are anxious for the success of your son in life , for the correctness of his conduct and the soundness of his principles , keep him to Lilly's grammar . 
My father , who did not understand the classical languages , received with respect the advice of his old friend , and from that moment conceived the highest opinion of Lilly's Latin grammar . 
sent to the classical academy of the place . 
And , when my father saw that I had accomplished my task , he opened his mouth , and said , 'Truly , this is more than I expected . 
I did not think that there had been so much in you , either of application or capacity you have now learnt all that is necessary , if my friend Dr . 
B 's opinion was sterling , as I have no doubt it was . 
You are still a child , however , and must yet go to school , in order that you may be kept out of evil company . 
Perhaps you may still contrive , now you have exhausted the barn , to pick up a grain or two in the barn yard . 
You are still ignorant of figures , I believe , not that I would mention figures in the same day with Lilly's grammar . 
I was sent to the school of the place , which chanced to be a day school . 
It was a somewhat extraordinary one , and a somewhat extraordinary event occurred to me within its walls . 
It occupied part of the farther end of a small plain , or square , at the outskirts of the town , close to some extensive bleaching fields . 
I am the more particular in mentioning this appurtenance , as I had soon occasion to scrape acquaintance with it in a manner not very agreeable to my feelings . 
The master was very proud of his bell , if I might judge from the fact of his eyes being frequently turned to that part of the ceiling from which the rope depended . 
Twice every day , namely , after the morning and evening tasks had been gone through , were the boys rung out of school by the monotonous jingle of this bell . 
I therefore sat still , not imagining it possible that any such duty could be required of me . 
But now , with not a little confusion , I perceived that the eyes of all the boys in the school were fixed upon me . 
But now , probably in obedience to a sign from the master , the boys in my immediate neighbourhood began to maltreat me . 
Some pinched me with their fingers , some buffeted me , whilst others pricked me with pins , or the points of compasses . 
These arguments were not without effect . 
It was like running the gauntlet every one , great or small , pinching , kicking , or otherwise maltreating me , as I passed by . 
Goaded on in this manner , I at length reached the middle of the room , where dangled the bell rope , the cause of all my sufferings . 
I now began to perceive that the dismissal of the school , and my own release from torment , depended upon this selfsame rope . 
I therefore , in a fit of desperation , pulled it once or twice , and then left off , naturally supposing that I had done quite enough . 
The boys who sat next the door no sooner heard the bell , than , rising from their seats , they moved out at the door . 
It was wilder , and less cultivated , and more broken with hills and hillocks . 
The people , too , of these regions appeared to partake of something of the character of their country . 
They were coarsely dressed tall and sturdy of frame their voices were deep and guttural and the half of the dialect which they spoke was unintelligible to my ears . 
I often wondered where we could be going , for I was at this time about as ignorant of geography as I was of most other things . 
However , I held my peace , asked no questions , and patiently awaited the issue . 
Northward , northward , still ! And it came to pass that , one morning , I found myself extended on the bank of a river . 
To my right hand was a long and massive bridge , with many arches , and of antique architecture , which traversed the river . 
The river was a noble one the broadest that I had hitherto seen . 
Several robust fellows were near me , some knee deep in water , employed in hauling the seine upon the strand . 
And , as I gazed upon the prospect , my bosom began to heave , and my tears to trickle . 
Yet , perhaps , in something more deep and mysterious the feelings which then pervaded me might originate . 
He was bare legged , of a weather beaten countenance , and of stature approaching to the gigantic . 
'What is the callant greeting for ? said he , as he stopped and surveyed me . 
Yon river is called the Tweed and yonder , over the brig , is Scotland . 
The Castle was , as I suppose it is now , a garrison for soldiers . 
Two other regiments were already there the one an Irish , if I remember right , the other a small Highland corps . 
There is one thing , however , connected with them , which is a great drawback the horrid jargon which they speak . 
However learned they may be in Greek and Latin , their English is execrable and yet I'm told it is not so bad as it was . 
I was in company , the other day , with an Englishman who has resided here many years . 
We were talking about the country and the people . 
I should like both very well , said I , were it not for the language . 
I wish sincerely our Parliament , which is passing so many foolish acts every year , would pass one to force these Scotch to speak English . 
I wish so , too , said he . 
'I daresay the language is now what it was then . 
'I don't know , said my father 'though I daresay you are right it could never have been worse than it is at present . 
But now to the point . 
'Tis said to be the best school in the whole island but the idea of one's children speaking Scotch broad Scotch ! I must think the matter over . 
And he did think the matter over and the result of his deliberation was a determination to send us to the school . 
I did not spend my time unpleasantly at this school , though , first of all , I had to pass through an ordeal . 
'Scotland is a far better country than England , in every respect . 
'Is it ? said I. 'Then you ought to be very thankful for not having been born in England . 
'That's just what I am , ye loon and every morning , when I say my prayers , I thank God for not being an Englishman . 
The Scotch are a much better and braver people than the English . 
'It may be so , said I , 'for what I know indeed , till I came here , I never heard a word either about the Scotch or their country . 
'Are ye making fun of us , ye English puppy ? said the blear eyed lad 'take that ! and I was presently beaten black and blue . 
And thus did I first become aware of the difference of races and their antipathy to each other . 
'Bow to the storm , and it shall pass over you . 
I held my peace , and silently submitted to the superiority of the Scotch IN NUMBERS . 
This was enough from an object of persecution I soon became one of patronage , especially amongst the champions of the class . 
I respect England , for I have an auntie married there . 
The Scotch are certainly a most pugnacious people their whole history proves it . 
Witness their incessant wars with the English in the olden time , and their internal feuds , highland and lowland , clan with clan , family with family , Saxon with Gael . 
In one month I witnessed more of these encounters than I had ever previously seen under similar circumstances in England . 
After all , there was not much harm done . 
are , I repeat , a most pugnacious people at least they were in my time . 
I could perceive , however , that there was a skirmish taking place in the latter spot . 
I pushed forward , but had scarcely crossed the ruined wall and runnel , when the party nearest to me gave way , and in great confusion came running in my direction . 
As they drew nigh , one of them shouted to me , 'Wha are ye , man ? are ye o' the Auld Toon ? I made no answer . 
'Ha ! ye are o' the New Toon De'il tak ye , we'll moorder ye' and the next moment a huge stone sung past my head . 
'Let me be , ye fule bodies , said I , 'I'm no of either of ye , I live yonder aboon in the Castle . 
For my own part I wished for nothing better , and , rushing forward , I placed myself at the head of my new associates , and commenced flinging stones fast and desperately . 
Our adversaries no sooner perceived this disaster , than , setting up a shout , they wheeled round and attacked us most vehemently . 
The bicker had long since commenced , stones from sling and hand were flying but the callants of the New Town were now carrying everything before them . 
All now appeared lost , the Auld Toon was in full retreat . 
I myself lay at the baker's feet , who had just raised his spoke , probably to give me the COUP DE GRACE , it was an awful moment . 
And now it was the turn of the Old Town to triumph . 
CHAPTER VIII Expert climbers The crags Something red The horrible edge David Haggart Fine materials The greatest victory Extraordinary robber The ruling passion . 
MEANWHILE I had become a daring cragsman , a character to which an English lad has seldom opportunities of aspiring for in England there are neither crags nor mountains . 
Of these , however , as is well known , there is no lack in Scotland , and the habits of individuals are invariably in harmony with the country in which they dwell . 
The Scotch are expert climbers , and I was now a Scot in most things , particularly in language . 
To scale the rock was merely child's play for the Edinbro' callants . 
It was my own favourite diversion . 
It was now holiday time , and having nothing particular wherewith to occupy myself , I not unfrequently passed the greater part of the day upon the rocks . 
Once , after scaling the western crags , and creeping round a sharp angle of the wall , overhung by a kind of watch tower , I found myself on the northern side . 
Wondering who it could be , I shouted but it took not the slightest notice , remaining as immovable as the rock on which it sat . 
A small stone which I dislodged now rolled down the rock , and tumbled into the abyss close beside him . 
He turned his head , and after looking at me for a moment somewhat vacantly , he resumed his former attitude . 
I drew yet nearer to the horrible edge not close , however , for fear was on me . 
'What are you thinking of , David ? said I , as I sat behind him and trembled , for I repeat that I was afraid . 
I was thinking of Willie Wallace . 
You had better be thinking of yourself , man . 
A strange place this to come to and think of William Wallace . 
Why so ? Is not his tower just beneath our feet ? MYSELF . 
And why were ye thinking of him ? The English hanged him long since , as I have heard say . 
I was thinking that I should wish to be like him . 
Do ye mean that ye would wish to be hanged ? DAVID HAGGART . 
I wadna flinch from that , Geordie , if I might be a great man first . 
Ye are a fule , Davie the story book is full of lies . 
Wallace , indeed ! the wuddie rebel ! I have heard my father say that the Duke of Cumberland was worth twenty of Willie Wallace . 
Ye had better sae naething agin Willie Wallace , Geordie , for , if ye do , De'il hae me , if I dinna tumble ye doon the craig . 
Fine materials in that lad for a hero , you will say . 
Yes , indeed , for a hero , or for what he afterwards became . 
In other times , and under other circumstances , he might have made what is generally termed a great man , a patriot , or a conqueror . 
As it was , the very qualities which might then have pushed him on to fortune and renown were the cause of his ruin . 
The war over , he fell into evil courses for his wild heart and ambitious spirit could not brook the sober and quiet pursuits of honest industry . 
'Can an Arabian steed submit to be a vile drudge ? I cries the fatalist . 
Nonsense ! A man is not an irrational creature , but a reasoning being , and has something within him beyond mere brutal instinct . 
The greatest victory which a man can achieve is over himself , by which is meant those unruly passions which are not convenient to the time and place . 
Here the wild heart was profitably employed , the wild strength , the teeming brain . 
Onward , Lame one ! Onward , Tamur lank ! Haggart . 
Ireland thought thee her child , for who spoke her brogue better than thyself ? she felt proud of thee , and said , 'Sure , O'Hanlon is come again . 
Thou mightest have been better employed , David ! but the ruling passion was strong with thee , even in the jaws of death . 
Thou mightest have been better employed ! but peace be with thee , I repeat , and the Almighty's grace and pardon . 
CHAPTER IX Napoleon The storm The cove Up the country The trembling hand Irish Tough battle Tipperary hills Elegant lodgings A speech Fair specimen Orangemen . 
I shall pass over in silence the events of a year , which offer little of interest as far as connected with me and mine . 
Suddenly , however , the sound of war was heard again , Napoleon had broken forth from Elba , and everything was in confusion . 
I was awakened early in the morning by the howling of the wind and the uproar on deck . 
On the eighth day of our voyage we were in sight of Ireland . 
Leaving the ship in the cove , we passed up a wide river in boats till we came to a city , where we disembarked . 
It appeared a city of contradictions . 
After a few days' rest we marched from this place in two divisions . 
My father commanded the second , I walked by his side . 
Our route lay up the country the country at first offered no very remarkable feature , it was pretty , but tame . 
On the second day , however , its appearance had altered , it had become more wild a range of distant mountains bounded the horizon . 
We saw , however , both men and women working at a distance in the fields . 
I drank the milk it was sour , but I found it highly refreshing . 
On their heads were broad slouching hats the generality of them were bare footed . 
The soldiers stared at each other , and were silent . 
Knowing on what kind of business I was bound , I had taken with me a sergeant's party it was well I did so . 
We found the deserters in a large room , with at least thirty ruffians , horrid looking fellows , seated about a long table , drinking , swearing , and talking Irish . 
'And did you take the deserters ? said the officer . 
'A queer tongue , said I 'I wonder if I could learn it . 
'Learn it ! said my father 'what should you learn it for ? however , I am not afraid of that . 
It was on the bank of a beautiful river , which separated it from the mountains . 
And then my wife , who is from Londonderry , Mistress Hyne , looking me in the face like a fairy as she is , You may say that , says she . 
It would be but decent and civil , honey . 
'A bigot and an Orangeman ! Oh yes ! It is easier to apply epithets of opprobrium to people than to make yourself acquainted with their history and position . 
'But they are fierce and sanguinary , it is said . 
Ay , ay ! they have not unfrequently opposed the keen sword to the savage pike . 
'But they are bigoted and narrow minded . 
Ay , ay ! they do not like idolatry , and will not bow the knee before a stone ! 'But their language is frequently indecorous . 
CHAPTER X Protestant young gentlemen The Greek letters Open chimney Murtagh Paris and Salamanca Nothing to do To whit , to whoo ! The pack of cards Before Christmas . 
He was remarkably narrow chested and round shouldered , owing , perhaps as much to the tightness of his garment as to the hand of nature . 
His face was long , and his complexion swarthy , relieved , however , by certain freckles , with which the skin was plentifully studded . 
He had strange wandering eyes , gray , and somewhat unequal in size they seldom rested on the book , but were generally wandering about the room , from one object to another . 
'And what are you doing with your hands ? 'Faith , then , if I must tell you , I was e'en dealing with the cards . 
'I should like to know all about you where do you live , joy ? 'Faith , then , ye shall know all about me , and where I live . 
What's that for ? says he . 
Get up , you thief ! says I , and be helping me . 
'You don't say so , Shorsha ma vourneen ? you don't say that you have cards fifty two ? 'I do , though and they are quite new never been once used . 
'And you'll be lending them to me , I warrant ? 'Don't think it ! But I'll sell them to you , joy , if you like . 
'What's that , Shorsha dear ? 'Irish ! 'Irish ? 'Yes , you speak Irish I heard you talking it the other day to the cripple . 
You shall teach me Irish . 
'And is it a language master you'd be making of me ? 'To be sure ! what better can you do ? it would help you to pass your time at school . 
CHAPTER XI Templemore Devil's Mountain No companion Force of circumstance Way of the world Ruined castle Grim and desolate The donjon Old woman My own house . 
WHEN Christmas was over , and the new year commenced , we broke up our quarters , and marched away to Templemore . 
This was a large military station , situated in a wild and thinly inhabited country . 
Extensive bogs were in the neighbourhood , connected with the huge bog of Allen , the Palus Maeotis of Ireland . 
I had previously learnt Latin , or rather Lilly but neither Latin nor Lilly made me a philologist . 
Having learnt one by choice , I speedily , as the reader will perceive , learnt others , some of which were widely different from Irish . 
Ah , that Irish ! I am much indebted to it in more ways than one . 
But I am afraid I have followed the way of the world , which is very much wont to neglect original friends and benefactors . 
The whole speaking monuments of the troubled and insecure state of the country , from the most remote periods to a comparatively modern time . 
I had an anxious desire to explore it . 
It stood to the south east in which direction , however , a black bog intervened , which had more than once baffled all my attempts to cross it . 
I diverged from the road , and , crossing two or three fields , came to a small grassy plain , in the midst of which stood the castle . 
About a gun shot to the south was a small village , which had , probably , in ancient days , sprung up beneath its protection . 
A kind of awe came over me as I approached the old building . 
Yet I was bent on the adventure , and moved on towards the castle across the green plain , occasionally casting a startled glance around me and now I was close to it . 
It was surrounded by a quadrangular wall , about ten feet in height , with a square tower at each corner . 
I passed through the gateway , and found myself within a square inclosure of about two acres . 
On one side rose a round and lofty keep , or donjon , with a conical roof , part of which had fallen down , strewing the square with its ruins . 
'I wonder what has been going on here ? I exclaimed . 
There were echoes among the walls as I walked about the court . 
On the top of the first flight of stairs was an arched doorway , to the left was a dark passage , to the right , stairs leading still higher . 
I stepped under the arch and found myself in an apartment somewhat similar to the one below , but higher . 
There was an object at the farther end . 
I stood suddenly still , and her haggard glance rested on my face . 
'Is this your house , mother ? I at length demanded , in the language which I thought she would best understand . 
'Yes , my house , my own house the house of the broken hearted . 
'Any other person's house ? I demanded . 
I set out early , and , directing my course towards the north , I had in less than two hours accomplished considerably more than half of the journey . 
It placed itself directly in my path , and showing its teeth , and bristling its coat , appeared determined to prevent my progress . 
'What are you doing with the dog , the fairy dog ? said a man , who at this time likewise cleared the dyke at a bound . 
'Of course he would not be letting you till he knew where ye were going . 
'He's not much of a fairy , said I , 'or he would know that without asking tell him that I am going to see my brother . 
'And who is your brother , little Sas ? 'What my father is , a royal soldier . 
'Oh , ye are going then to the detachment at by my shoul , I have a good mind to be spoiling your journey . 
On one side of the man's forehead there was a raw and staring wound , as if from a recent and terrible blow . 
'Faith , then I'll be going , but it's taking you wid me I will be . 
'And where will you take me ? 'Why , then , to Ryan's Castle , little Sas . 
'By my shoul , it's a thing of peace I'm thinking ye . 
In a few moments I lost sight of him amidst the snowflakes . 
The weather was again clear and fine before I reached the place of detachment . 
The tall sergeant stood before the fire , holding a cooking utensil in his left hand on seeing me , he made the military salutation . 
'Is my brother here ? said I , rather timidly , dreading to hear that he was out , perhaps for the day . 
He was taken , and I was left ! Truly , the ways of Providence are inscrutable . 
Oh ! these last six weeks have passed like hours of heaven . 
'And have you any acquaintance here ? 'The very best much better than the Colonel and the rest , at their grand Templemore I had never so many in my whole life before . 
He has had a dispute with Bagg . 
On hearing his name , he called him to him , and , after looking at him for some time with great curiosity , said that he was sure he was a Dane . 
'And what other acquaintance have you ? 'All kinds the whole neighbourhood can't make enough of me . 
I once got up to strike him but the youngest of the sisters , who is the handsomest , caught my arm and pointed to her forehead . 
'Tis true there's Jerry Grant . 
'Has he ? 'Yes ! and felt him he too is a strange one . 
He had some difficulty in getting there on account of the turf holes in the bog , which he was not accustomed to however , thither at last he got and went in . 
I have lost my trouble , said Bagg , and left the castle . 
Bagg says it was the most sudden thing in the world . 
Bagg says that he stopped short , as suddenly as if he had heard the word halt , when marching at double quick time . 
It was quite a surprise , he says , and he can't imagine how the fellow was so close upon him before he was aware . 
Bagg , however , saw at once that he had a roguish air , and he was on his guard in a moment . 
Good evening to ye , sodger , says the fellow , stepping close up to Bagg , and staring him in the face . 
Good evening to you , sir ! I hope you are well , says Bagg . 
You are looking after some one ? says the fellow . 
Just so , sir , says Bagg , and forthwith seized him by the collar the man laughed , Bagg says it was such a strange awkward laugh . 
Do you know whom you have got hold of , sodger ? said he . 
Bagg says there was nothing remarkable in that he was only flung by a kind of wrestling trick , which he could easily have baffled had he been aware of it . 
You will not do that again , sir , said he , as he got up and put himself on his guard . 
Bagg says that he was quite satisfied with the blow , more especially when he saw the fellow reel , fling out his arms , and fall to the ground . 
Lord have mercy upon us ! said Bagg . 
A strange adventure that it is well that Bagg got home alive . 
He says that the fight was a fair fight , and that the fling he got was a fair fling , the result of a common enough wrestling trick . 
But with respect to the storm , which rose up just in time to save the fellow , he is of opinion that it was not fair , but something Irish and supernatural . 
I have read of witchcraft in the Bible . 
He is quite right and now kiss me , my darling brother , for I must go back through the bog to Templemore . 
'Why do you wish me to mount him ? said I 'you know he is dangerous . 
I saw him fling you off his back only a few days ago . 
'Why , that's the very thing , master . 
I'd rather see anybody on his back than myself he does not like me but , to them he does , he can be as gentle as a lamb . 
But there's no fear of that you have never angered or insulted him , and to such as you , I say again , he'll be as gentle as a lamb . 
He has never forgiven me , though before that time he was the only friend I had in the world I should like to see you on him , master . 
'I should soon be off him I can't ride . 
'Then you are all right , master there's no fear . 
Trust him for not hurting a young gentleman , an officer's son , who can't ride . 
If you were a blackguard dragoon , indeed , with long spurs , 'twere another thing as it is , he'll treat you as if he were the elder brother that loves you . 
Ride ! He'll soon teach you to ride if you leave the matter with him . 
He's the best riding master in all Ireland , and the gentlest . 
In a word , he was a gallant specimen of the genuine Irish cob , a species at one time not uncommon , but at the present day nearly extinct . 
'I'm half afraid , said I 'I had rather you would ride him . 
'I'd rather so , too , if he would let me but he remembers the blow . 
Now , don't be afraid , young master , he's longing to go out himself . 
Now , before you mount , make his acquaintance see there , how he kisses you and licks your face , and see how he lifts his foot , that's to shake hands . 
Mind what I tell you leave it all to him . 
Off went the cob at a slow and gentle trot , too fast and rough , however , for so inexperienced a rider . 
That's it , now abroad with you I'll bet my comrade a pot of beer that you'll be a regular rough rider by the time you come back . 
And so it proved I followed the directions of the groom , and the cob gave me every assistance . 
How easy is riding , after the first timidity is got over , to supple and youthful limbs and there is no second fear . 
The creature soon found that the nerves of his rider were in proper tone . 
Turning his head half round , he made a kind of whining noise , flung out a little foam , and set off . 
Oh , that ride ! that first ride ! most truly it was an epoch in my existence and I still look back to it with feelings of longing and regret . 
No more fatigue , no more stiffness of joints , after that first ride round the Devil's Hill on the cob . 
If , therefore , I found it easy to love the horse , I found it equally natural to respect him . 
I much question whether philology , or the passion for languages , requires so little of an apology as the love for horses . 
On a certain day I had been out on an excursion . 
In a cross road , at some distance from the Satanic hill , the animal which I rode cast a shoe . 
By good luck a small village was at hand , at the entrance of which was a large shed , from which proceeded a most furious noise of hammering . 
Leading the cob by the bridle , I entered boldly . 
'Shoe this horse , and do it quickly , a gough , said I to a wild grimy figure of a man , whom I found alone , fashioning a piece of iron . 
'Arrigod yuit ? said the fellow , desisting from his work , and staring at me . 
'Oh yes , I have money , said I , 'and of the best' and I pulled out an English shilling . 
'Tabhair chugam ? said the smith , stretching out his grimy hand . 
'No , I shan't , said I 'some people are glad to get their money when their work is done . 
The fellow hammered a little longer , and then proceeded to shoe the cob , after having first surveyed it with attention . 
He performed his job rather roughly , and more than once appeared to give the animal unnecessary pain , frequently making use of loud and boisterous words . 
By the time the work was done , the creature was in a state of high excitement , and plunged and tore . 
'You deserve better handling , said I , as I went up to the cob and fondled it whereupon it whinnied , and attempted to touch my face with its nose . 
'Are ye not afraid of that beast ? said the smith , showing his fang . 
'Arrah , it's vicious that he looks ! 'It's at you , then ! I don't fear him' and thereupon I passed under the horse , between its hind legs . 
'And is that all you can do , agrah ? said the smith . 
'No , said I , 'I can ride him . 
'Can you do that , agrah ? said the smith . 
'What is it ? said I , retreating , 'I never saw the horse so before . 
'Go between his legs , agrah , said the smith , 'his hinder legs' and he again showed his fang . 
'I dare not , said I , 'he would kill me . 
'He would kill ye ! and how do ye know that , agrah ? 'I feel he would , said I , 'something tells me so . 
FROM the wild scenes which I have attempted to describe in the latter pages I must now transport the reader to others of a widely different character . 
He must suppose himself no longer in Ireland , but in the eastern corner of merry England . 
Gazing from those heights , the eye beholds a scene which cannot fail to awaken , even in the least sensitive bosom , feelings of pleasure and admiration . 
'Tis the sword of Cordova , won in bloodiest fray off Saint Vincent's promontory , and presented by Nelson to the old capital of the much loved land of his birth . 
Such was the place to which , when the war was over , my father retired it was here that the old tired soldier set himself down with his little family . 
'I have been writing to the Duke , said my father one day to my excellent mother , after we had been at home somewhat better than a year . 
'I have been writing to the Duke of York about a commission for that eldest boy of ours . 
He , however , affords me no hopes he says that his list is crammed with names , and that the greater number of the candidates have better claims than my son . 
'I do not see how that can be , said my mother . 
'Nor do I , replied my father . 
'I see the sons of bankers and merchants gazetted every month , and I do not see what claims they have to urge , unless they be golden ones . 
However , I have not served my king fifty years to turn grumbler at this time of life . 
I am afraid it will be much more difficult to settle him in life than his brother . 
'I heard him say the other day that he could read St . 
John in the original tongue . 
'You will find excuses for him , I know , said my father . 
There's what's her name in the Bible , by whose wiles the old blind man was induced to give to his second son the blessing which was the birthright of the other . 
I wish I had been in his place ! I should not have been so easily deceived ! no disguise would ever have caused me to mistake an impostor for my first born . 
'Just so , said my mother 'his brother would make a far better Jacob than he . 
As for the other , God bless the child ! I love him , I'm sure but I must be blind not to see the difference between him and his brother . 
One of these traitors once accosted him and proposed the matter to him , offering handfuls of gold if he could induce any of his comrades to go over . 
His name was Michael Nowlan . 
That ever son of mine should have been intimate with the Papist Irish , and have learnt their language ! 'But he thinks of other things now , said my mother . 
'Other languages , you mean , said my father . 
Well , there is no harm in learning French and Italian , perhaps much good in his case , as they may drive the other tongue out of his head . 
'Be under no apprehension , I have no doubt that he has long since forgotten it . 
'I am glad to hear it , said my father 'for , between ourselves , I love the poor child ay , quite as well as my first born . 
I have heard talk of the pleasures of idleness , yet it is my own firm belief that no one ever yet took pleasure in it . 
Mere idleness is the most disagreeable state of existence , and both mind and body are continually making efforts to escape from it . 
It has been said that idleness is the parent of mischief , which is very true but mischief itself is merely an attempt to escape from the dreary vacuum of idleness . 
It was for want of something better to do that , shortly after my return home , I applied myself to the study of languages . 
By the acquisition of Irish , with the first elements of which I had become acquainted under the tuition of Murtagh , I had contracted a certain zest and inclination for the pursuit . 
I turned my attention to the French and Italian . 
At length I had learnt all that the book was capable of informing me , yet was still far from the goal to which it had promised to conduct me . 
'I wish I had a master ! I exclaimed and the master was at hand . 
Such was my preceptor in the French and Italian tongues . 
'Exul sacerdos vone banished priest . 
I came into England twenty five year ago , my dear . 
CHAPTER XV Monsieur Dante Condemned musket Sporting Sweet rivulet The Earl's Home The pool The sonorous voice What dost thou read ? Man of peace Zohar and Mishna Money changers . 
So I studied French and Italian under the tuition of the banished priest , to whose house I went regularly every evening to receive instruction . 
I made considerable progress in the acquisition of the two languages . 
I found the French by far the most difficult , chiefly on account of the accent , which my master himself possessed in no great purity , being a Norman by birth . 
The Italian was my favourite . 
'Vous serez un jour un grand philologue , mon cher , said the old man , on our arriving at the conclusion of Dante's Hell . 
'I hope I shall be something better , said I , 'before I die , or I shall have lived to little purpose . 
'That's true , my dear ! philologist one small poor dog . 
What would you wish to be ? 'Many things sooner than that for example , I would rather be like him who wrote this book . 
'Quoi , Monsieur Dante ? He was a vagabond , my dear , forced to fly from his country . 
No , my dear , if you would be like one poet , be like Monsieur Boileau he is the poet . 
'How , not think so ? He wrote very respectable verses lived and died much respected by everybody . 
T'other , one bad dog , forced to fly from his country died with not enough to pay his undertaker . 
'Were you not forced to flee from your country ? 'That very true but there is much difference between me and this Dante . 
He fled from country because he had one bad tongue which he shook at his betters . 
I fly because benefice gone , and head going not on account of the badness of my tongue . 
'Well , said I , 'you can return now the Bourbons are restored . 
'I find myself very well here not bad country . 
Il est vrai que la France sera toujours la France but all are dead there who knew me . 
I find myself very well here . 
Preach in popish chapel , teach schismatic , that is Protestant , child tongues and literature . 
I find myself very well and why ? Because I know how to govern my tongue never call people hard names . 
Ma foi , il y a beaucoup de difference entre moi et ce sacre de Dante . 
Under this old man , who was well versed in the southern languages , besides studying French and Italian , I acquired some knowledge of Spanish . 
But I did not devote my time entirely to philology I had other pursuits . 
I had not forgotten the roving life I had led in former days , nor its delights neither was I formed by Nature to be a pallid indoor student . 
No , no ! I was fond of other and , I say it boldly , better things than study . 
I had an attachment to the angle , ay , and to the gun likewise . 
I have already given a hint that I was also addicted to the angle . 
Of course there is no comparison between the two pursuits , the rod and line seeming but very poor trumpery to one who has had the honour of carrying a noble firelock . 
There is a time , however , for all things and we return to any favourite amusement with the greater zest , from being compelled to relinquish it for a season . 
So , if I shot birds in winter with my firelock , I caught fish in summer , or attempted so to do , with my angle . 
I was not quite so successful , it is true , with the latter as with the former possibly because it afforded me less pleasure . 
It was , indeed , too much of a listless pastime to inspire me with any great interest . 
I not unfrequently fell into a doze , whilst sitting on the bank , and more than once let my rod drop from my hands into the water . 
Farther on , however , you hear their voice again , where they ripple gaily over yon gravelly shallow . 
On the left , the hill slopes gently down to the margin of the stream . 
I started , and looked round . 
Close behind me stood the tall figure of a man , dressed in raiment of quaint and singular fashion , but of goodly materials . 
'Surely that is a very cruel diversion in which thou indulgest , my young friend ? he continued . 
'I am sorry for it , if it be , sir , said I , rising 'but I do not think it cruel to fish . 
'What are thy reasons for not thinking so ? 'Fishing is mentioned frequently in Scripture . 
Simon Peter was a fisherman . 
'True and Andrew and his brother . 
But thou forgettest they did not follow fishing as a diversion , as I fear thou doest . 
Thou readest the Scriptures ? 'Sometimes . 
'Sometimes ? not daily ? that is to be regretted . 
What profession dost thou make ? I mean to what religious denomination dost thou belong , my young friend . 
'Church ? 'It is a very good profession there is much of Scripture contained in its liturgy . 
Dost thou read aught besides the Scriptures ? 'Sometimes . 
'What dost thou read besides ? 'Greek , and Dante . 
'Indeed ! then thou hast the advantage over myself I can only read the former . 
Well , I am rejoiced to find that thou hast other pursuits beside thy fishing . 
Dost thou know Hebrew ? 'No . 
Why dost thou not undertake the study ? 'I have no books . 
'I will lend thee books , if thou wish to undertake the study . 
I live yonder at the hall , as perhaps thou knowest . 
Farewell ! I am glad to find that thou hast pursuits more satisfactory than thy cruel fishing . 
And the man of peace departed , and left me on the bank of the stream . 
I rarely flung line and angle into the water , but I not unfrequently wandered by the banks of the pleasant rivulet . 
It seems singular to me , on reflection , that I never availed myself of his kind invitation . 
I say singular , for the extraordinary , under whatever form , had long had no slight interest for me and I had discernment enough to perceive that yon was no common man . 
Yet I went not near him , certainly not from bashfulness or timidity , feelings to which I had long been an entire stranger . 
Am I to regret this ? perhaps , for I might have learned both wisdom and righteousness from those calm , quiet lips , and my after course might have been widely different . 
As it was , I fell in with other guess companions , from whom I received widely different impressions than those I might have derived from him . 
'I am fond of these studies , said he , 'which , perhaps , is not to be wondered at , seeing that our people have been compared to the Jews . 
In one respect I confess we are similar to them we are fond of getting money . 
I do not like this last author , this Abarbenel , the worse for having been a money changer . 
I am a banker myself , as thou knowest . 
I WAS standing on the castle hill in the midst of a fair of horses . 
I have already had occasion to mention this castle . 
It is the remains of what was once a Norman stronghold , and is perched upon a round mound or monticle , in the midst of the old city . 
So it came to pass that I stood upon this hill , observing a fair of horses . 
The reader is already aware that I had long since conceived a passion for the equine race a passion in which circumstances had of late not permitted me to indulge . 
'Such a horse as this we shall never see again a pity that he is so old . 
Now during all this time I had a kind of consciousness that I had been the object of some person's observation that eyes were fastened upon me from somewhere in the crowd . 
It was , after all , a matter of sheer indifference to me who was looking at me . 
You can't be 'Jasper , your pal ! Truth , and no lie , brother . 
'It is strange that you should have known me , said I. 'I am certain , but for the word you used , I should never have recognised you . 
I thought it was you , but to make sure I dodged about , inspecting you . 
I believe you felt me , though I never touched you a sign , brother , that we are akin , that we are dui palor two relations . 
Your blood beat when mine was near , as mine always does at the coming of a brother and we became brothers in that lane . 
'And where are you staying ? said I 'in this town ? 'Not in the town the like of us don't find it exactly wholesome to stay in towns , we keep abroad . 
But I have little to do here come with me , and I'll show you where we stay . 
'You are one of them , said I , 'whom people call 'Just so , said Jasper 'but never mind what people call us . 
'And that tall handsome man on the hill , whom you whispered ? I suppose he's one of ye . 
What is his name ? 'Tawno Chikno , said Jasper , 'which means the small one we call him such because he is the biggest man of all our nation . 
You say he is handsome , that is not the word , brother he's the beauty of the world . 
Women run wild at the sight of Tawno . 
An earl's daughter , near London a fine young lady with diamonds round her neck fell in love with Tawno . 
As we passed one of the tents , however , a canvas screen was lifted up , and a woman supported upon a crutch hobbled out . 
She was about the middle age , and , besides being lame , was bitterly ugly she was very slovenly dressed , and on her swarthy features ill nature was most visibly stamped . 
She did not deign me a look , but , addressing Jasper in a tongue which I did not understand , appeared to put some eager questions to him . 
'He's coming , said Jasper , and passed on . 
'Poor fellow , said he to me , 'he has scarcely been gone an hour , and she's jealous already . 
'Brother , said Jasper , 'I wish to hold some pleasant discourse with you . 
'As much as you please , said I , 'provided you can find anything pleasant to talk about . 
'Never fear , said Jasper 'and first of all we will talk of yourself . 
'And do you still hunt snakes ? said Jasper . 
'No , said I , 'I have given up that long ago I do better now read books and learn languages . 
'And where are your father and mother ? 'Where I shall never see them , brother at least , I hope so . 
'Not dead ? 'No , not dead they are bitchadey pawdel . 
'What's that ? 'Sent across banished . 
'Ah ! I understand I am sorry for them . 
And so you are here alone ? 'Not quite alone , brother . 
'No , not alone but with the rest Tawno Chikno takes care of you . 
'Takes care of me , brother ! 'Yes , stands to you in the place of a father keeps you out of harm's way . 
'What do you take me for , brother ? 'For about three years older than myself . 
'Perhaps but you are of the Gorgios , and I am a Rommany Chal . 
'The horse shoe master and the snake fellow , I am the first . 
'Who gave you that name ? 'Ask Pharaoh . 
'I would , if he were here , but I do not see him . 
'Then you are a king . 
'I do not understand you . 
'Where are your languages ? You want two things , brother mother sense , and gentle Rommany . 
'What makes you think that I want sense ? 'That , being so old , you can't yet guide yourself ! 'I can read Dante , Jasper . 
'I can charm snakes , Jasper . 
'I know you can , brother . 
'Yes , and horses too bring me the most vicious in the land , if I whisper he'll be tame . 
'Then the more shame for you a snake fellow a horse witch and a lil reader yet you can't shift for yourself . 
I laugh at you , brother ! 'Then you can shift for yourself ? 'For myself and for others , brother . 
'And what does Chikno ? 'Sells me horses , when I bid him . 
Those horses on the chong were mine . 
'And has he none of his own ? 'Sometimes he has but he is not so well off as myself . 
I was not older than you when that happened yet our people said they had never a better krallis to contrive and plan for them , and to keep them in order . 
Tawno is one of these . 
'Is that fine fellow poor ? 'One of the poorest , brother . 
Handsome as he is , he has not a horse of his own to ride on . 
Perhaps we may put it down to his wife , who cannot move about , being a cripple , as you saw . 
'And you are what is called a Gypsy King ? 'Ay , ay a Rommany Kral . 
'Are there other kings ? 'Those who call themselves so but the true Pharaoh is Petulengro . 
'Did Pharaoh make horse shoes ? 'The first who ever did , brother . 
'So did we once , brother . 
'And you left it ? 'My fathers did , brother . 
'And why did they come here ? 'They had their reasons , brother . 
'And you are not English ? 'We are not gorgios . 
'And you have a language of your own ? 'Avali . 
We are taken before the Poknees of the gav , myself and sister , to give an account of ourselves . 
So the Poknees questions us , and lets us go , not being able to make anything of us but , as we are going , he calls us back . 
Where did you get that language ? says the Poknees . 
'Tis our own language , sir , I tells him , we did not steal it . 
Shall I tell you what it is , my good woman ? says the Poknees . 
I would thank you , sir , says I , for 'tis often we are asked about it . 
Well , then , says the Poknees , it is no language at all , merely a made up gibberish . 
Oh , bless your wisdom , says I , with a curtsey , you can tell us what our language is , without understanding it ! Another time we meet a parson . 
Oh , these gorgios ! they grudge us our very language ! 'She called you her son , Jasper ? 'I am her son , brother . 
'I thought you said your parents were 'Bitchadey pawdel you thought right , brother . 
This is my wife's mother . 
'Then you are married , Jasper ? 'Ay , truly I am husband and father . 
You will see wife and chabo anon . 
'Where are they now ? 'In the gav , penning dukkerin . 
'We were talking of language , Jasper ? 'True , brother . 
'Yours must be a rum one ? ''Tis called Rommany . 
'I would gladly know it . 
'Would you teach it me ? 'None sooner . 
'Suppose we begin now ? 'Suppose we do , brother . 
'Not whilst I am here , said the woman , flinging her knitting down , and starting upon her feet 'not whilst I am here shall this gorgio learn Rommany . 
Who was fool there ? says my sister . 
Who , indeed , but my son Jasper , I answers . 
And here should I be a greater fool to sit still and suffer it which I will not do . 
I do not like the look of him he looks over gorgeous . 
An ill day to the Romans when he masters Rommany and , when I says that , I pens a true dukkerin . 
'It sounds very like Devil . 
'It doth , brother , it doth . 
'And what do you call divine , I mean godly ? 'Oh ! I call that duvelskoe . 
'I am thinking of something , Jasper . 
From this time I had frequent interviews with Jasper , sometimes in his tent , sometimes on the heath , about which we would roam for hours , discoursing on various matters . 
I soon found that I had become acquainted with a most singular people , whose habits and pursuits awakened within me the highest interest . 
Of all connected with them , however , their language was doubtless that which exercised the greatest influence over my imagination . 
I had at first some suspicion that it would prove a mere made up gibberish but I was soon undeceived . 
My rapid progress in the former astonished , while it delighted , Jasper . 
'We'll no longer call you Sap engro , brother , said he but rather Lav engro , which in the language of the gorgios meaneth Word master . 
'I likes him for his modesty , said Mrs. Chikno 'I never hears any ill words come from his mouth , but , on the contrary , much sweet language . 
His talk is golden , and he has taught my eldest to say his prayers in Rommany , which my rover had never the grace to do . 
You say you like him in that we differs I hates the gorgio , and would like , speaking Romanly , to mix a little poison with his waters . 
And now go to Lundra , my children , I goes to Yorkshire . 
Take my blessing with ye , and a little bit of a gillie to cheer your hearts with when ye are weary . 
In all kinds of weather have we lived together but now we are parted . 
I goes broken hearted I can't keep you company ye are no longer Rommany . 
To gain a bad brother , ye have lost a good mother . 
CHAPTER XVIII What profession ? Not fitted for a Churchman Erratic course The bitter draught Principle of woe Thou wouldst be joyous What ails you ? Poor child of clay . 
My father , who , for certain reasons of his own , had no very high opinion of the advantages resulting from this career , would have gladly seen me enter the Church . 
His desire was , however , considerably abated by one or two passages of my life , which occurred to his recollection . 
Such an erratic course was certainly by no means in consonance with the sober and unvarying routine of college study . 
My strength and appetite suddenly deserted me , and I began to pine and droop . 
It was well that I did not die that time , for I repeat that I was sadly ignorant of many important things . 
But how much more quickly does strength desert the human frame than return to it ! I had become convalescent , it is true , but my state of feebleness was truly pitiable . 
I believe it is in that state that the most remarkable feature of human physiology frequently exhibits itself . 
Oh , how unfrequently dost thou break down the barriers which divide thee from the poor soul of man , and overcast its sunshine with thy gloomy shadow . 
When thou feelest it nigh , let thy safety word be 'Onward' if thou tarry , thou art overwhelmed . 
Courage ! build great works 'tis urging thee it is ever nearest the favourites of God the fool knows little of it . 
Thou wouldst be joyous , wouldst thou ? then be a fool . 
And so I am a dreadful fear is upon me . 
But of what ? There is no one can harm you of what are you apprehensive ? BOY . 
Of nothing that I can express I know not what I am afraid of , but afraid I am . 
No armed man threatens me and 'tis not a thing like that would cause me any fear . 
Your forehead is cool , and your speech collected . 
Do you know where you are ? BOY . 
I am , moreover , quite cool , and feel no pain but , but And then there was a burst of 'gemiti , sospiri ed alti guai . 
I speedily became a proficient in the one , but ever remained a novice in the other a novice in the law , but a perfect master in the Welsh tongue . 
By adopting the law I had not ceased to be Lavengro . 
Let no one sneer , he accomplished much his life was peaceful , so was his death . 
Bon jour , Monsieur Vidocq ! expressions de ma part a Monsieur Le Baron Taylor . 
I cannot say that I ever saw him walk fast . 
I was studying Welsh , and I fell in with Ab Gwilym by no very strange chance . 
But it is probable that I should have abandoned the pursuit of the Welsh language , after obtaining a very superficial acquaintance with it , had it not been for Ab Gwilym . 
Yes , yes , send thy love message to Morfydd , the fair wanton . 
Go to , Ab Gwilym , thou wast a wiser and a better man than thou wouldst fain have had people believe . 
I say akin , for perhaps only once in our lives do we experience unmixed wonder and delight and these I had already known . 
CHAPTER XX Silver gray Good word for everybody A remarkable youth Clients Grades in society The archdeacon Reading the Bible . 
'I am afraid I have not done right in putting him to the law , said my father , resting his chin upon his gold headed bamboo cane . 
'Why , what makes you think so ? said my mother . 
At last I forced the truth from him , and grieved I was to hear it though I must confess that I was somewhat prepared for it . 
It appears that the lad has a total want of discrimination . 
'I don't understand you , said my mother . 
'You can understand nothing that would seem for a moment to impugn the conduct of that child . 
I am not , however , so blind want of discrimination was the word , and it both sounds well , and is expressive . 
He told me another anecdote with respect to his behaviour , which shocked me more than the other had done . 
that he rather enjoyed the thing , and thought it a capital joke . 
'I think so too , said my mother . 
I never yet knew one of an independent spirit get on in the army , the secret of success in the army is the spirit of subordination . 
'Which is a poor spirit after all , said my mother 'but the child is not in the army . 
I have already spoken of my brother's taste for painting , and the progress he had made in that beautiful art . 
Turn into other paths , and for a momentary advantage or gratification ye have sold your inheritance , your immortality . 
Ye will never be heard of after death . 
'My father has given me a hundred and fifty pounds , said my brother to me one morning , 'and something which is better his blessing . 
I am going to leave you . 
'And where are you going ? 'Where ? to the great city to London , to be sure . 
'I should like to go with you . 
'Pooh , said my brother , 'what should you do there ? But don't be discouraged , I daresay a time will come when you too will go to London . 
And , sure enough , so it did , and all but too soon . 
'And what do you purpose doing there ? I demanded . 
'Oh , I go to improve myself in art , to place myself under some master of high name , at least I hope to do so eventually . 
I suppose it is because everybody says so , that I have such a strange desire to see it . 
I have already made myself well acquainted with its locality , and think that I could almost find my way to it blindfold . 
'Ay , ay , said I , 'I have read about that in Keysler's Travels . 
'Ay , ay , said I , 'I have read of him in Foxe's BOOK OF MARTYRS . 
Seekest thou inspiration ? thou needest it not , thou hast it already and it was never yet found by crossing the sea . 
The parting words of my brother had sunk into my mind . 
My philological studies had become distasteful , and I had never taken any pleasure in the duties of my profession . 
I sat behind my desk in a state of torpor , my mind almost as blank as the paper before me , on which I rarely traced a line . 
All of a sudden I fell to studying countenances , and soon flattered myself that I had made considerable progress in the science . 
'There is no faith in countenances , said some Roman of old 'trust anything but a person's countenance . 
If people would but look each other more in the face , we should have less cause to complain of the deception of the world nothing so easy as physiognomy nor so useful . 
Somewhat in this latter strain I thought at the time of which I am speaking . 
I am now older , and , let us hope , less presumptuous . 
But it had been decreed by that Fate which governs our every action that I was soon to return to my old pursuits . 
It was written that I should not yet cease to be Lav engro , though I had become , in my own opinion , a kind of Lavater . 
I believe they experienced from me some kindness and attention , which won the old people's hearts . 
'And did you learn who they were ? 'Why , yes they made us understand that they were Danes . 
And now the old man handed me the book a strange and uncouth looking volume enough . 
It was not very large , but instead of the usual covering was bound in wood , and was compressed with strong iron clasps . 
It was a printed book , but the pages were not of paper , but vellum , and the characters were black , and resembled those generally termed Gothic . 
'I shall be very glad to shake you by the hand , said I , 'but as for the other condition , it requires consideration . 
'Oh , that alters the case altogether , said I , 'and of course I can have no objection . 
And now at once I shook off my listlessness , to enable me to do which nothing could have happened more opportune than the above event . 
Little wonder if the interest , the mysterious interest , which I had early felt about the Danes , was increased tenfold by my sojourn in Ireland . 
'Nay , friend , said the Antinomian , 'thou forejudgest us know that those who call us Antinomians call us so despitefully , we do not acknowledge the designation . 
Thank you , and now be gone , I will do all I can to procure the Bible . 
Over the mantelpiece , however , hung a small picture with naked figures in the foreground , and with much foliage behind . 
'You do not smoke ? said he , at length , laying down his pipe , and directing his glance to his companion . 
He had very long limbs , and was apparently tall of stature , in which he differed from his elderly companion , who must have been somewhat below the usual height . 
'No , I can't smoke , said the youth , in reply to the observation of the other 'I have often tried , but could never succeed to my satisfaction . 
'Is it possible to become a good German without smoking ? said the senior , half speaking to himself . 
'I daresay not , said the youth 'but I shan't break my heart on that account . 
not only decently , but dignifiedly . 
Suicide is not a national habit in Germany as it is in England . 
'But that poor creature , Werther , who committed suicide , was a German . 
'Werther is a fictitious character , and by no means a felicitous one I am no admirer either of Werther or his author . 
But I should say that , if there ever was a Werther in Germany , he did not smoke . 
Werther , as you very justly observe , was a poor creature . 
'And a very sinful one I have heard my parents say that suicide is a great crime . 
'Broadly , and without qualification , to say that suicide is a crime , is speaking somewhat unphilosophically . 
No doubt suicide , under many circumstances , is a crime , a very heinous one . 
Indeed , there can be no crime which is not founded upon the depriving others of something which belongs to them . 
However , I am no advocate for suicide under any circumstances there is something undignified in it , unheroic , un Germanic . 
I have always had a respect for that woman's memory . 
And here , filling his pipe from the canister , and lighting it at the taper , he recommenced smoking calmly and sedately . 
'But is not suicide forbidden in the Bible ? the youth demanded . 
'Why , no but what though it were ! the Bible is a respectable book , but I should hardly call it one whose philosophy is of the soundest . 
We are ourselves not famous for it , for we are a passionate people the Germans are not they are not a passionate people a people celebrated for their oaths we are . 
The Germans have many excellent historic writers , we . 
'tis true we have Gibbon . 
You have been reading Gibbon what do you think of him ? 'I think him a very wonderful writer . 
'He is a wonderful writer one SUI GENERIS uniting the perspicuity of the English for we are perspicuous with the cool dispassionate reasoning of the Germans . 
Gibbon sought after the truth , found it , and made it clear . 
Oh , he is a wonderful writer ! his power of condensation is admirable the lore of the whole world is to be found in his pages . 
Of all historic characters Jesus is the most beautiful and the most heroic . 
But there is something philosophic in the worship of the heroes of the human race , and the true hero is the benefactor . 
Brahma , Jupiter , Bacchus , were all benefactors , and , therefore , entitled to the worship of their respective peoples . 
The Celts worshipped Hesus , who taught them to plough , a highly useful art . 
He must be a savage who denies worship to the hero of Golgotha . 
'There you are wrong it is the masterpiece of Schiller , the first of German poets . 
'It may be so , said the youth . 
'But , pray excuse me , I do not think very highly of German poetry . 
I have lately been reading Shakespeare and , when I turn from him to the Germans even the best of them they appear mere pigmies . 
You will pardon the liberty I perhaps take in saying so . 
'I like that every one should have an opinion of his own , said the elderly individual 'and , what is more , declare it . 
I would sooner have written that series of plays , founded on the fortunes of the House of Lancaster , than the ILIAD itself . 
The events described are as lofty as those sung by Homer in his great work , and the characters brought upon the stage still more interesting . 
Falstaff is a creation beyond the genius even of Homer . 
'You almost tempt me to read Shakespeare again but the Germans ? 'I don't admire the Germans , said the youth , somewhat excited . 
'I don't admire them in any point of view . 
With respect to poetry , setting Shakespeare and the English altogether aside , I think there is another Gothic nation , at least , entitled to dispute with them the palm . 
'Ah , the Koempe Viser ? said the elderly individual , breathing forth an immense volume of smoke , which he had been collecting during the declamation of his young companion . 
'There are singular things in that book , I must confess and I thank you for showing it to me , or rather your attempt at translation . 
I was struck with that ballad of Orm Ungarswayne , who goes by night to the grave hill of his father to seek for counsel . 
And then , again , that strange melancholy Swayne Vonved , who roams about the world propounding people riddles slaying those who cannot answer , and rewarding those who can with golden bracelets . 
Were it not for the violence , I should say that ballad has a philosophic tendency . 
I thank you for making me acquainted with the book , and I thank the Jew Mousha for making me acquainted with you . 
'That Mousha was a strange customer , said the youth , collecting himself . 
'He WAS a strange customer , said the elder individual , breathing forth a gentle cloud . 
'I love to exercise hospitality to wandering strangers , especially foreigners and when he came to this place , pretending to teach German and Hebrew , I asked him to dinner . 
After the first dinner , he asked me to lend him five pounds I DID lend him five pounds . 
After the fifth dinner , he asked me to lend him fifty pounds I did NOT lend him the fifty pounds . 
'He was as ignorant of German as of Hebrew , said the youth 'on which account he was soon glad , I suppose , to transfer his pupil to some one else . 
Such was the origin of our acquaintance . 
You have been an apt scholar . 
Of late , however , I have seen little of you what is the reason ? The youth made no answer . 
'You think , probably , that you have learned all I can teach you ? Well , perhaps you are right . 
I met him , the other day , up the road , with his cane and dog , and saluted him he did not return my salutation . 
'He has certain opinions of his own , said the youth , 'which are widely different from those which he has heard that you profess . 
'I respect a man for entertaining an opinion of his own , said the elderly individual . 
'I hold certain opinions but I should not respect an individual the more for adopting them . 
All I wish for is tolerance , which I myself endeavour to practise . 
I have always loved the truth , and sought it if I have not found it , the greater my misfortune . 
'Are you happy ? said the young man . 
'Why , no ! And , between ourselves , it is that which induces me to doubt sometimes the truth of my opinions . 
My life , upon the whole , I consider a failure on which account , I would not counsel you , or any one , to follow my example too closely . 
It is getting late , and you had better be going , especially as your father , you say , is anxious about you . 
But , as we may never meet again , I think there are three things which I may safely venture to press upon you . 
The third thing which I would wish to press upon you 'Yes , said the youth , eagerly bending forward . 
It was a fine lovely morning in May , the sun shone bright above , and the birds were carolling in the hedgerows . 
In this house there lived a gentleman with whom I had business . 
I had brought him a thousand pounds in my pocket , for it is astonishing how many eager helpers the rich find , and with what compassion people look upon their distresses . 
He was said to have good wine in his cellar . 
'Is your master at home ? said I , to a servant who appeared at the door . 
'His worship is at home , young man , said the servant , as he looked at my shoes , which bore evidence that I had come walking . 
'I beg your pardon , sir , he added , as he looked me in the face . 
He had all the appearance of a genuine old English gentleman who kept good wine in his cellar . 
'I know him , said his worship 'he's a tenant of mine , and a good fellow , somewhat too much in my debt though . 
But how is this , young gentleman , you look as if you had been walking you did not come on foot ? 'Yes , sir , I came on foot . 
'On foot ! why it is sixteen miles . 
'I shan't be tired when I have walked back . 
'You can't ride , I suppose ? 'Better than I can walk . 
'Then why do you walk ? 'I have frequently to make journeys connected with my profession sometimes I walk , sometimes I ride , just as the whim takes me . 
'Will you take a glass of wine ? 'Yes . 
Thereupon he got up , and , followed by his two terriers , walked slowly out of the room . 
I looked round the room , and , seeing nothing which promised me much amusement , I sat down , and fell again into my former train of thought . 
It has been thirty years in my cellar last Christmas . 
There , said he to the servant , 'put it down , and leave my young friend and me to ourselves . 
Now , what do you think of it ? 'It is very good , said I. 'Did you ever taste better Madeira ? 'I never before tasted Madeira . 
'Then you ask for a wine without knowing what it is ? 'I ask for it , sir , that I may know what it is . 
'Perhaps not rather too young for that , but were you of my age , you might have cause to know him , coming from where you do . 
'Does he know the truth ? 'Know the truth ! he knows what's good , from an oyster to an ostrich he's not only sound , but round . 
'Suppose we drink his health ? 'Thank you , boy here's Parr's health , and Whiter's . 
'Who is Whiter ? 'Don't you know Whiter ? I thought everybody knew Reverend Whiter the philologist , though I suppose you scarcely know what that means . 
'Can you box ? 'A little . 
I am a magistrate , and , of course , cannot patronise the thing very openly , yet I sometimes see a prize fight I saw the Game Chicken beat Gulley . 
'Sir , said he , with a certain eagerness of manner , 'here are two gentlemen waiting to speak to you . 
'About the fight ! said the magistrate . 
'No that can hardly be however , you had better show them in . 
Heavy steps were now heard ascending the stairs , and the servant ushered two men into the apartment . 
In the whole appearance of the man there was a blending of the bluff and the sharp . 
'May I request to know who you are , gentlemen ? said the magistrate . 
'And your own name , sir ? said the magistrate . 
'My name is no matter , said the man 'were I to mention it to you , it would awaken within you no feeling of interest . 
It is neither Kean nor Belcher , and I have as yet done nothing to distinguish myself like either of those individuals , or even like my friend here . 
And here a smile half theatrical passed over his features . 
'In what can I oblige you , sir ? said the magistrate . 
'Well , sir the soul of wit is brevity we want a place for an approaching combat between my friend here and a brave from town . 
Passing by your broad acres this fine morning we saw a pightle , which we deemed would suit . 
Lend us that pightle , and receive our thanks 'twould be a favour , though not much to grant we neither ask for Stonehenge nor for Tempe . 
My friend looked somewhat perplexed after a moment , however , he said , with a firm but gentlemanly air , 'Sir , I am sorry that I cannot comply with your request . 
'Let me beg of you to alter your decision , said the man , in a tone of profound respect . 
'Utterly impossible , sir I am a magistrate . 
'Magistrate ! then fare ye well , for a green coated buffer and a Harmanbeck . 
'Sir ! said the magistrate , springing up with a face fiery with wrath . 
But , with a surly nod to me , the man left the apartment and in a moment more the heavy footsteps of himself and his companion were heard descending the staircase . 
'Who is that man ? said my friend , turning towards me . 
'A sporting gentleman , well known in the place from which I come . 
'He appeared to know you . 
'I have occasionally put on the gloves with him . 
In what is man better than a butterfly ? All then is born to be forgotten . 
Ah ! that was a pang indeed 'tis at such a moment that a man wishes to die . 
Pooh ! all this is mere learning and translation , and such will never secure immortality . 
Translation is at best an echo , and it must be a wonderful echo to be heard after the lapse of a thousand years . 
No ! all I have already done , and all I may yet do in the same way , I may reckon as nothing mere pastime something else must be done . 
I must either write some grand original work , or conquer an empire the one just as easy as the other . 
But am I competent to do either ? Yes , I think I am , under favourable circumstances . 
Yes , I think I may promise myself a reputation of a thousand years , if I do but give myself the necessary trouble . 
Well ! but what's a thousand years after all , or twice a thousand years ? Woe is me ! I may just as well sit still . 
This doubting in the 'universal all' is almost coeval with the human race wisdom , so called , was early sought after . 
The subject of his address was faith , and how it could remove mountains . 
It was a plain address , without any attempt at ornament , and delivered in a tone which was neither loud nor vehement . 
Each has something to do , brethren . 
Do it , therefore , but always in faith without faith we shall find ourselves sometimes at fault but with faith never for faith can remove the difficulty . 
It will likewise teach us not to love life over much , seeing that we must one day part with it . 
It will teach us to face death with resignation , and will preserve us from sinking amidst the swelling of the river Jordan . 
And when he had concluded his address , he said , 'Let us sing a hymn , one composed by Master Charles Wesley he was my countryman , brethren . 
'Jesus , I cast my soul on Thee , Mighty and merciful to save Thou shalt to death go down with me , And lay me gently in the grave . 
This body then shall rest in hope , This body which the worms destroy For Thou shalt surely raise me up To glorious life and endless joy . 
Farewell , preacher with the plain coat and the calm serious look ! I saw thee once again , and that was lately only the other day . 
It was near a fishing hamlet , by the sea side , that I saw the preacher again . 
He stood on the top of a steep monticle , used by pilots as a look out for vessels approaching that coast , a dangerous one , abounding in rocks and quick sands . 
There he stood on the monticle , preaching to weather worn fishermen and mariners gathered below upon the sand . 
'That's not you , Jasper ? 'Indeed , brother ! 'I've not seen you for years . 
'How should you , brother ? 'What brings you here ? 'The fight , brother . 
'Where are the tents ? 'On the old spot , brother . 
'Any news since we parted ? 'Two deaths , brother . 
'Who are dead , Jasper ? 'Father and mother , brother . 
'Where did they die ? 'Where they were sent , brother . 
'And Mrs. Herne ? 'She's alive , brother . 
'Where is she now ? 'In Yorkshire , brother . 
'What is your opinion of death , Mr. Petulengro ? said I , as I sat down beside him . 
When a man dies , he is cast into the earth , and his wife and child sorrow over him . 
'And do you think that is the end of a man ? 'There's an end of him , brother , more's the pity . 
'Why do you say so ? 'Life is sweet , brother . 
Wish to die , indeed ! A Rommany Chal would wish to live for ever ! 'In sickness , Jasper ? 'There's the sun and stars , brother . 
'In blindness , Jasper ? 'There's the wind on the heath , brother if I could only feel that , I would gladly live for ever . 
HOW for everything there is a time and a season , and then how does the glory of a thing pass from it , even like the flower of the grass . 
This is a truism , but it is one of those which are continually forcing themselves upon the mind . 
Oh , the blood horses of old England ! but they , too , have had their day for everything beneath the sun there is a season and a time . 
It was fierce old Cobbett , I think , who first said that the Jews first introduced bad faith amongst pugilists . 
He did not always speak the truth , but at any rate he spoke it when he made that observation . 
A Rothschild and a Mendoza , yes but never a Kean nor a Belcher . 
I think I now see them upon the bowling green , the men of renown , amidst hundreds of people with no renown at all , who gaze upon them with timid wonder . 
Fame , after all , is a glorious thing , though it lasts only for a day . 
There's Cribb , the champion of England , and perhaps the best man in England there he is , with his huge massive figure , and face wonderfully like that of a lion . 
But how shall I name them all ? they were there by dozens , and all tremendous in their way . 
There was Bulldog Hudson , and fearless Scroggins , who beat the conqueror of Sam the Jew . 
There was Black Richmond no , he was not there , but I knew him well he was the most dangerous of blacks , even with a broken thigh . 
There was Purcell , who could never conquer till all seemed over with him . 
Hail to thee , Tom of Bedford , or by whatever name it may please thee to be called , Spring or Winter . 
'Tis a treat to see thee , Tom of Bedford , in thy 'public' in Holborn way , whither thou hast retired with thy well earned bays . 
'Tis Friday night , and nine by Holborn clock . 
One thing is certain , that the former was suddenly seen to sink to the earth before a blow of by no means extraordinary power . 
There were shouts indeed there's never a lack of shouts to celebrate a victory , however acquired but there was also much grinding of teeth , especially amongst the fighting men from town . 
'Boy , thy strength is beginning to give way , and thou art becoming confused' the man now goes to work , amidst rain and hail . 
'Boy , thou wilt not hold out ten minutes longer against rain , hail , and the blows of such an antagonist . 
'I can't hear you , Mr. Petulengro , said I for the thunder drowned the words which he appeared to be uttering . 
'Dearginni , I heard Mr. Petulengro say , 'it thundreth . 
I was asking , brother , whether you believe in dukkeripens ? 'I do not , Mr. Petulengro but this is strange weather to be asking me whether I believe in fortunes . 
'Grondinni , said Mr. Petulengro , 'it haileth . 
I believe in dukkeripens , brother . 
'And who has more right , said I 'seeing that you live by them ? But this tempest is truly horrible . 
'Dearginni , grondinni ta villaminni ! It thundreth , it haileth , and also flameth , said Mr. Petulengro . 
'Look up there , brother ! I looked up . 
Connected with this tempest there was one feature to which I have already alluded the wonderful colours of the clouds . 
Some were of vivid green others of the brightest orange others as black as pitch . 
The gypsy's finger was pointed to a particular part of the sky . 
'What do you see there , brother ? 'A strange kind of cloud . 
'What does it look like , brother ? 'Something like a stream of blood . 
'That cloud foreshoweth a bloody dukkeripen . 
'A bloody fortune ! said I. 'And whom may it betide ? 'Who knows ! said the gypsy . 
Two forms were conspicuous in it that of the successful bruiser , and of his friend and backer , the sporting gentleman of my acquaintance . 
There went the barouche , dashing through the rain gushes , and in it one whose boast it was that he was equal to 'either fortune . 
Many have heard of that man many may be desirous of knowing yet more of him . 
I have nothing to do with that man's after life he fulfilled his dukkeripen . 
The strongest forms , however , do not always endure the longest , the very excess of the noble and generous juices which they contain being the cause of their premature decay . 
He had the best medical advice but it was easy to see , from the looks of his doctors , that they entertained but slight hopes of his recovery . 
His sufferings were great , yet he invariably bore them with unshaken fortitude . 
There was one thing remarkable connected with his illness notwithstanding its severity , it never confined him to his bed . 
And thus my father spent the greater part of his time , sometimes in prayer , sometimes in meditation , and sometimes in reading the Scriptures . 
'I wish to ask you a few questions , said he to me one day , after my mother had left the room . 
'I will answer anything you may please to ask me , my dear father . 
'What have you been about lately ? 'I have been occupied as usual , attending at the office at the appointed hours . 
'And what do you there ? 'Whatever I am ordered . 
'And nothing else ? 'Oh yes ! sometimes I read a book . 
'Connected with your profession ? 'Not always I have been lately reading Armenian 'What's that ? 'The language of a people whose country is a region on the other side of Asia Minor . 
'Well ! 'A region abounding with mountains . 
'Well ! 'Amongst which is Mount Ararat . 
'Well ! 'Upon which , as the Bible informs us , the ark rested . 
'Well ! 'It is the language of the people of those regions 'So you told me . 
'And I have been reading the Bible in their language . 
'Well ! 'Or rather , I should say , in the ancient language of these people from which I am told the modem Armenian differs considerably . 
'Well ! 'As much as the Italian from the Latin . 
'Well ! 'So I have been reading the Bible in ancient Armenian . 
'You told me so before . 
'I found it a highly difficult language . 
'Differing widely from the languages in general with which I am acquainted . 
'Exhibiting , however , some features in common with them . 
'But of which I need say nothing farther at present , and which I should not have mentioned but for that fact . 
'Well ! 'Which I consider remarkable . 
'Is it ? 'With an alphabet of thirty nine letters , but it is harsh and guttural . 
'Like the language of most mountainous people the Armenians call it Haik . 
'Well ! 'Well , father , that's all I can tell you about the Haiks , or Armenians . 
'Very little ! Have you acquired all in your power ? 'I can't say that I have , father . 
'And yet it was your duty to have done so . 
'I would scorn to fling a stone at a bird , father . 
'You know what I mean , and all too well , and this attempt to evade deserved reproof by feigned simplicity is quite in character with your general behaviour . 
I never knew till the present moment that you were acquainted with Armenian . 
'Because you never asked me , father there's nothing to conceal in the matter I will tell you in a moment how I came to learn Armenian . 
A lady whom I met at one of Mrs. 's parties took a fancy to me , and has done me the honour to allow me to go and see her sometimes . 
Her husband must have been a learned man , for amongst much Greek and Hebrew I found several volumes in Armenian , or relating to the language . 
'And why did you not tell me of this before ? 'Because you never questioned me but , I repeat , there is nothing to conceal in the matter . 
The lady took a fancy to me , and , being fond of the arts , drew my portrait she said the expression of my countenance put her in mind of Alfieri's Saul . 
'And do you still visit her ? 'No , she soon grew tired of me , and told people that she found me very stupid she gave me the Armenian books , however . 
'Saul , said my father , musingly , 'Saul . 
'He was , indeed , an awful character I hope I shan't turn out like him . 
'God forbid ! said my father , solemnly 'but in many respects you are headstrong and disobedient like him . 
I placed you in a profession , and besought you to make yourself master of it by giving it your undivided attention . 
'Not only to shoe a horse , father , but to make horse shoes . 
'Perhaps so , said my father 'and it only serves to prove what I was just saying , that I know little about you . 
Had you been a frank , open hearted boy , like one I could name , you would have told me all about it of your own accord . 
'Do not talk so , my dear father I have no doubt that you will soon be better . 
'Do not flatter yourself I feel that my days are numbered , I am soon going to my rest , and I have need of rest , for I am weary . 
There , there , don't weep ! Tears will help me as little as they will you you have not yet answered my question . 
Tell me what you intend to do ? 'I really do not know what I shall do . 
'The military pension which I enjoy will cease with my life . 
The property which I shall leave behind me will be barely sufficient for the maintenance of your mother respectably . 
I again ask you what you intend to do . 
I have never held life in much value , and every one has a right to dispose as he thinks best of that which is his own . 
Few and evil have been my days upon the earth little have I done to which I can look back with satisfaction . 
My brother had now been absent for the space of three years . 
His last letter , however , had filled him and our whole little family with joy it was dated from Paris , and the writer was evidently in high spirits . 
But six months had now elapsed from the date of this letter , and we had heard no further intelligence of my brother . 
I now devoted almost the whole of my time to my father , on whom his faithful partner also lavished every attention and care . 
I read the Bible to him , which was his chief delight and also occasionally such other books as I thought might prove entertaining to him . 
His spirits were generally rather depressed . 
The absence of my brother appeared to prey upon his mind . 
'I wish he were here , he would frequently exclaim 'I can't imagine what can have become of him I trust , however , he will arrive in time . 
He still sometimes rallied , and I took advantage of those moments of comparative ease to question him upon the events of his early life . 
My attentions to him had not passed unnoticed , and he was kind , fatherly , and unreserved . 
I had never known my father so entertaining as at these moments , when his life was but too evidently drawing to a close . 
I had no idea that he knew and had seen so much my respect for him increased , and I looked upon him almost with admiration . 
He had frequently conversed almost on terms of familiarity with good old George . 
He had known the conqueror of Tippoo Saib and was the friend of Townshend , who , when Wolfe fell , led the British grenadiers against the shrinking regiments of Montcalm . 
I saw him lead her to the altar if ever there was an angelic countenance , it was that girl's she was almost too fair to be one of the daughters of women . 
Is there anything , boy , that you would wish to ask me ? now is the time . 
'Yes , father there is one about whom I would fain question you . 
'Who is it ? shall I tell you about Elliot ? 'No , father , not about Elliot but pray don't be angry I should like to know something about Big Ben . 
Why do you bring up that name ? Don't you know that it is one of my temptations you wish to know something about him . 
Well ! I will oblige you this once , and then farewell to such vanities something about him . 
if I remember right his skin , I say , was brown and dusky as that of a toad . 
Oh me ! I wish my elder son was here . 
CHAPTER XXVIII My brother's arrival The interview Night A dying father Christ . 
AT last my brother arrived he looked pale and unwell I met him at the door . 
It was only by chance that I heard of his illness . 
There was another question on my tongue , but I forbore for the eyes of the young man were full of tears . 
I pointed with my finger , and the young man hastened past me to the arms of his father . 
I forbore to ask my brother whether he had been to old Rome . 
And did I shed no tears ? did I breathe no sighs ? did I never wring my hands at this period ? the reader will perhaps be asking . 
And now for the closing scene . 
At the dead hour of night , it might be about two , I was awakened from sleep by a cry which sounded from the room immediately below that in which I slept . 
Again the cry sounded , yet still I lay motionless the stupidity of horror was upon me . 
A third time , and it was then that , by a violent effort , bursting the spell which appeared to bind me , I sprang from the bed and rushed downstairs . 
My mother was running wildly about the room she had awoke , and found my father senseless in the bed by her side . 
I essayed to raise him , and after a few efforts supported him in the bed in a sitting posture . 
My brother now rushed in , and , snatching up a light that was burning , he held it to my father's face . 
The form pressed heavily against my bosom at last methought it moved . 
Yes , I was right , there was a heaving of the breast , and then a gasping . 
Were those words which I heard ? Yes , they were words , low and indistinct at first , and then audible . 
The mind of the dying man was reverting to former scenes . 
I heard him mention names which I had often heard him mention before . 
It was an awful moment I felt stupefied , but I still contrived to support my dying father . 
With that name upon his lips , the brave old soldier sank back upon my bosom , and , with his hands still clasped , yielded up his soul . 
CHAPTER XXIX The greeting Queer figure Cheer up The cheerful fire It will do The sally forth Trepidation Let him come in . 
I turned round , for I felt that the words were addressed to myself . 
'One and ninepence , sir , or your things will be taken away from you ! he said , in a kind of lisping tone , coming yet nearer to me . 
I still remained staring fixedly at him , but never a word answered . 
Our eyes met whereupon he suddenly lost the easy impudent air which he before wore . 
So I followed the porter , through the streets of London , to a lodging which had been prepared for me by an acquaintance . 
'Cheer up , young man , said the porter , 'we shall have a fine afternoon ! And presently I found myself in the lodging which had been prepared for me . 
It consisted of a small room , up two pair of stairs , in which I was to sit , and another still smaller above it , in which I was to sleep . 
I remember that I sat down , and looked disconsolate about me everything seemed so cold and dingy . 
Yet how little is required to make a situation however cheerless at first sight cheerful and comfortable . 
And then I looked at the other bundle for some time without untying it and at last I said , 'It will do also . 
Of these individuals he who appeared to be the principal stood with his back to the fireplace . 
He was a tall stout man , about sixty , dressed in a loose morning gown . 
The expression of his countenance would have been bluff but for a certain sinister glance , and his complexion might have been called rubicund but for a considerable tinge of bilious yellow . 
He eyed me askance as I entered . 
'My dear sir , said he , 'I am rejoiced to see you in London . 
I have been long anxious for the pleasure we are old friends , though we have never before met . 
Taggart , said he to the man who sat at the desk , 'this is our excellent correspondent , the friend and pupil of our other excellent correspondent . 
'And now , my dear sir , said the big man , 'pray sit down , and tell me the cause of your visit . 
I hope you intend to remain here a day or two . 
'More than that , said I , 'I am come to take up my abode in London . 
I inserted them all , and wished there had been more of them quite original , sir , quite took with the public , especially the essay about the non existence of anything . 
I don't exactly agree with you though I have my own peculiar ideas about matter as you know , of course , from the book I have published . 
'I am afraid , sir , it was very wrong to write such trash , and yet more to allow it to be published . 
'Trash ! not at all a very pretty piece of speculative philosophy of course you were wrong in saying there is no world . 
He took the letter , and perused it with attention . 
'I had hoped 'A losing trade , I assure you , sir literature is a drug . 
I wish to have some further conversation with you and perhaps I may hit upon some plan to benefit you . 
I am dissatisfied with that fellow who wrote the fairy tales , and intend to give him all the trouble in my power . 
Taggart did not appear to be in any particular haste . 
'Well , sir , where were we ? Oh , I remember , we were talking about merit . 
Sir , I always wish to encourage merit , especially when it comes so highly recommended as in the present instance . 
Sir , my good friend and correspondent speaks of you in the highest terms . 
Sir , I honour my good friend , and have the highest respect for his opinion in all matters connected with literature rather eccentric though . 
Sir , my good friend has done my periodical more good and more harm than all the rest of my correspondents . 
'Indeed ! what do you call it ? 'Ancient songs of Denmark , heroic and romantic , translated by myself with notes philological , critical , and historical . 
They launched the ship upon the main , Which bellowed like a wrathful bear Down to the bottom the vessel sank , A laidly Trold has dragged it there . 
Down to the bottom sank young Roland , And round about he groped awhile Until he found the path which led Unto the bower of Ellenlyle . 
'Wild ? 'Yes , sir , very wild . 
'Like the Miller of the Black Valley ? 'Yes , sir , very much like the Miller of the Black Valley . 
'Well , that's better , said the publisher 'and yet , I don't know , I question whether any one at present cares for the miller himself . 
Don't you think you could write a series of evangelical tales ? 'Evangelical tales , sir ? 'Yes , sir , evangelical novels . 
'Something in the style of Herder ? 'Herder is a drug , sir nobody cares for Herder thanks to my good friend . 
Sir , I have in yon drawer a hundred pages about Herder , which I dare not insert in my periodical it would sink it , sir . 
No , sir , something in the style of the DAIRYMAN'S DAUGHTER . 
'I never heard of the work till the present moment . 
'Then , sir , procure it by all means . 
Sir , I am a friend to Liberty , as is well known but I must also be a friend to my own family . 
It is with the view of providing for a son of mine that I am about to start the Review of which I was speaking . 
He has taken into his head to marry , sir , and I must do something for him , for he can do but little for himself . 
'Orthodox principles , I suppose you mean , sir ? 'I do , sir I am no linguist , but I believe the words are synonymous . 
Much more conversation passed between us , and it was agreed that I should become a contributor to the Oxford Review . 
'Nothing will be required from you , said he , 'but what you mention and now and then , perhaps , a paper on metaphysics . 
He then reverted to the subject of the DAIRYMAN'S DAUGHTER , which I promised to take into consideration . 
As I was going away , he invited me to dine with him on the ensuing Sunday . 
But what can I do ? I am almost without a friend in the world . 
I wish I could find some one who would publish my ballads , or my songs of Ab Gwilym . 
In spite of what the big man says , I am convinced that , once published , they would bring me much fame and profit . 
CHAPTER XXXI The walk London's Cheape Street of the Lombards Strange bridge Main arch The roaring gulf The boat Cly faking A comfort The book The blessed woman No trap . 
SO I set out on my walk to see the wonders of the big city , and , as chance would have it , I directed my course to the east . 
Centuries ago thou couldst extort the praises even of the fiercest foes of England . 
A strange kind of bridge it was huge and massive , and seemingly of great antiquity . 
Though the bridge was wide very wide it was all too narrow for the concourse upon it . 
Thousands of human beings were pouring over the bridge . 
But , if upon the bridge there was a confusion , below it there was a confusion ten times confounded . 
Who knows but I should have leapt into its depths ? I have heard of such things but for a rather startling occurrence which broke the spell . 
As I stood upon the bridge , gazing into the jaws of the pool , a small boat shot suddenly through the arch beneath my feet . 
There were three persons in it an oarsman in the middle , whilst a man and woman sat at the stern . 
I shall never forget the thrill of horror which went through me at this sudden apparition . 
A monstrous breaker curls over the prow there is no hope the boat is swamped , and all drowned in that strangling vortex . 
Whether any one observed them save myself , or whether the feat was a common one , I know not but nobody appeared to take any notice of them . 
As for myself , I was so excited that I strove to clamber up the balustrade of the bridge , in order to obtain a better view of the daring adventurers . 
'Nay , dear ! don't don't ! said she . 
'Ill luck , said I , going into the stone bower , and sitting down . 
'What do you mean ? ill luck in what ? 'Why , no great harm , dear ! cly faking perhaps . 
'Nor I you what do you mean by cly faking ? 'Lor , dear ! no harm only taking a handkerchief now and then . 
'What was her name ? 'Her name , blessed Mary Flanders . 
'Will you let me look at the book ? 'Yes , dear , that I will , if you promise me not to run away with it . 
I took the book from her hand a short thick volume , at least a century old , bound with greasy black leather . 
I turned the yellow and dog's eared pages , reading here and there a sentence . 
I covered my face with my hand , and thought of my childhood . 
'A deep what , dear ? 'A but no matter , I will give you a crown for this volume . 
'No , dear , I will not sell the volume for a crown . 
'I am poor , said I 'but I will give you two silver crowns for your volume . 
No , dear , I won't sell you my book but , if you like , you may have a peep into it whenever you come this way . 
Thank you , dear thank you for the tanner if I don't spend it , I'll keep it in remembrance of your sweet face . 
What , you are going ? well , first let me whisper a word to you . 
Thank you for your pleasant company , and thank you for the tanner . 
CHAPTER XXXII The tanner The hotel Drinking claret London journal New field Commonplaceness The three individuals Botheration Frank and ardent . 
But I have it , I continued , flourishing my hat over my head , 'tanner , in this instance , is not an English word . 
Night came on , but still I was walking about , my eyes wide open , and admiring everything that presented itself to them . 
But , notwithstanding the excellence of the London pavement , I began about nine o'clock to feel myself thoroughly tired painfully and slowly did I drag my feet along . 
I also felt very much in want of some refreshment , and I remembered that since breakfast I had taken nothing . 
The waiter looked at me for a moment then , making a low bow , he bustled off , and I sat myself down in the box nearest to the window . 
You think I don't know how to drink a glass of claret , thought I to myself . 
It has been observed somewhere that people who are in the habit of reading newspapers every day are not unfrequently struck with the excellence of style and general talent which they display . 
I of course had frequently seen journals , and even handled them but , as for reading them , what were they to me ? I cared not for news . 
And as I sat conning the newspaper three individuals entered the room , and seated themselves in the box at the farther end of which I was . 
This circumstance caused me to observe him more particularly than I otherwise should have done his features were handsome and prepossessing he had dark brown hair and a high arched forehead . 
I now observed that he was remarkably tall . 
All three left the house . 
'A troublesome world this , sir , said I , looking at him . 
Then , after a pause , 'I beg pardon , he said , 'but am I not addressing one of my own country ? 'Of what country are you ? said I. 'Ireland . 
'I am not of your country , sir but I have an infinite veneration for your country , as Strap said to the French soldier . 
Will you take a glass of wine ? 'Ah , de tout mon coeur , as the parasite said to Gil Blas , cried the young man , laughing . 
We left the house together . 
'We shall soon see each other again , said he , as we separated at the door of my lodging . 
CHAPTER XXXIII Dine with the publisher Religions No animal food Unprofitable discussions Principles of criticism The book market Newgate lives Goethe a drug German acquirements Moral dignity . 
ON the Sunday I was punctual to my appointment to dine with the publisher . 
As I hurried along the square in which his house stood , my thoughts were fixed so intently on the great man , that I passed by him without seeing him . 
He had observed me , however , and joined me just as I was about to knock at the door . 
'Let us take a turn in the square , said he , 'we shall not dine for half an hour . 
'Pray put it up , said the publisher 'I don't want to look at such trash . 
Well , do you think you could write anything like it ? 'I do not , said I. 'How is that ? said the publisher , looking at me . 
'Because , said I , 'the man who wrote it seems to be perfectly well acquainted with his subject and , moreover , to write from the heart . 
'By the subject you mean 'Religion . 
'And ain't you acquainted with religion ? 'Very little . 
Connected with this dinner there was one thing remarkable the publisher took no animal food , but contented himself with feeding voraciously on rice and vegetables prepared in various ways . 
'You eat no animal food , sir ? said I. 'I do not , sir , said he 'I have forsworn it upwards of twenty years . 
In one respect , sir , I am a Brahmin . 
I abhor taking away life the brutes have as much right to live as ourselves . 
'But , said I , 'if the brutes were not killed , there would be such a superabundance of them , that the land would be overrun with them . 
'I do not think so , sir few are killed in India , and yet there is plenty of room . 
The dinner over , the publisher nodded to his wife , who departed , followed by her daughter in law . 
Such will be one of your employments , sir , such the terms . 
In these two departments , sir , namely compilation and reviewing , I had yesterday , after due consideration , determined upon employing you . 
'Your book of philosophy into German , sir ? 'Yes , sir my book of philosophy into German . 
I am not a drug , sir , in Germany as Goethe is here , no more is my book . 
Sir , your remuneration will be determined by the success of your translation . 
And now , sir , permit me to inform you that I wish to be alone . 
CHAPTER XXXIV The two volumes A young author Intended editor Quintilian Loose money . 
'WHAT can't be cured must be endured , and 'it is hard to kick against the pricks . 
At the period to which I have brought my history , I bethought me of the proverbs with which I have headed this chapter , and determined to act up to their spirit . 
I determined not to fly in the face of the publisher , and to bear what I could not cure his arrogance and vanity . 
At present , at the conclusion of nearly a quarter of a century , I am glad that I came to that determination , which I did my best to carry into effect . 
Two or three days after our last interview , the publisher made his appearance in my apartment he bore two tattered volumes under his arm , which he placed on the table . 
'I have brought you two volumes of lives , sir , said he , 'which I yesterday found in my garret you will find them of service for your compilation . 
Have you been in quest of any ? 'No , said I , 'not yet . 
'Then , sir , I would advise you to lose no time in doing so you must visit all the bookstalls , sir , especially those in the by streets and blind alleys . 
It is in such places that you will find the description of literature you are in want of . 
You must be up and doing , sir it will not do for an author , especially a young author , to be idle in this town . 
To night you will receive my book of philosophy , and likewise books for the Review . 
And , by the bye , sir , it will be as well for you to review my book of philosophy for the Review the other reviews not having noticed it . 
Sir , before translating it , I wish you to review my book of philosophy for the Review . 
'I shall be happy to do my best , sir . 
'Very good , sir I should be unreasonable to expect anything beyond a person's best . 
And now , sir , if you please , I will conduct you to the future editor of the Review . 
As you are to co operate , sir , I deem it right to make you acquainted . 
The walls of the pavilion were covered with fiddles of various sizes and appearances , and a considerable portion of the floor occupied by a pile of books all of one size . 
For some reason or other , perhaps a poor one , I did not purchase the editor's translation of Quintilian . 
'Sir , said the publisher , as we were returning from our visit to the editor , 'you did right in not purchasing a drug . 
The publisher presently paused before the entrance of a very forlorn looking street . 
It is in streets of this description , sir , and blind alleys , where such works are to be found . 
You had better search that street , sir , whilst I continue my way . 
I searched the street to which the publisher had pointed , and , in the course of the three succeeding days , many others of a similar kind . 
I did not find the description of literature alluded to by the publisher to be a drug , but , on the contrary , both scarce and dear . 
I had expended much more than my loose money long before I could procure materials even for the first volume of my compilation . 
CHAPTER XXXV Francis Ardry Certain sharpers Brave and eloquent Opposites Flinging the bones Strange places Dog fighting Learning and letters Batch of dogs Redoubled application . 
ONE evening I was visited by the tall young gentleman , Francis Ardry , whose acquaintance I had formed at the coffee house . 
He was born of an ancient Roman Catholic family in Ireland his parents , whose only child he was , had long been dead . 
His father , who had survived his mother several years , had been a spendthrift , and at his death had left the family property considerably embarrassed . 
There he continued three years , at the end of which he went under the care of a French abbe to Germany and Italy . 
It was in this latter country that he first began to cause his guardians serious uneasiness . 
They were not slow in commanding Francis Ardry home and , as he was entirely in their power , he was forced to comply . 
He had been about three months in London when I met him in the coffee room , and the two elderly gentlemen in his company were his guardians . 
And yet many people would have thought it impossible for our friendship to have lasted a week for in many respects no two people could be more dissimilar . 
Yet it is of such dissimilar elements that the most lasting friendships are formed we do not like counterparts of ourselves . 
'Two great talkers will not travel far together , is a Spanish saying I will add , 'Nor two silent people' we naturally love our opposites . 
'There is nothing like flinging the bones ! shouted the man , as my friend and myself left the room . 
Long life and prosperity to Francis Ardry ! but for him I should not have obtained knowledge which I did of the strange and eccentric places of London . 
Before we entered this place our ears were greeted by a confused hubbub of human voices , squealing of rats , barking of dogs , and the cries of various other animals . 
'Joey , said he , 'this is a friend of mine . 
Joey nodded to me with a patronising air . 
Indeed , I do not like dog fighting . 
'Not like dog fighting ! said the man , staring . 
'The truth is , Joe , that he is just come to town . 
'Religion ! How you talk . 
'Well , then , politics , said I. 'Politics ! Why , the gemmen in the House would leave Pitt himself , if he were alive , to come to my pit . 
There were three of the best of them here to night , all great horators . 
Get on with you , what comes next ? 'Why , there's learning and letters . 
'Pretty things , truly , to keep people from dog fighting . 
Why , there's the young gentlemen from the Abbey School comes here in shoals , leaving books , and letters , and masters too . 
To tell you the truth , I rather wish they would mind their letters , for a more precious set of young blackguards I never seed . 
It was only the other day I was thinking of calling in a constable for my own protection , for I thought my pit would have been torn down by them . 
Scarcely knowing what to say , I made an observation at random . 
'You show , by your own conduct , said I , 'that there are other things worth following besides dog fighting . 
You practise rat catching and badger baiting as well . 
The dog fancier eyed me with supreme contempt . 
'Your friend here , said he , 'might well call you a new one . 
Our friendship , however , still continued unabated , though I saw , in consequence , less of him . 
CHAPTER XXXVI Occupations Traduttore traditore Ode to the Mist Apple and pear Reviewing Current literature Oxford like manner A plain story Ill regulated mind Unsnuffed candle Strange dreams . 
I COMPILED the Chronicles of Newgate I reviewed books for the Review established on an entirely new principle and I occasionally tried my best to translate into German portions of the publisher's philosophy . 
In this last task I experienced more than one difficulty . 
I at first felt much inclined to be of the publisher's opinion with respect to the theory of the pear . 
After all , why should the earth be shaped like an apple , and not like a pear ? it would certainly gain in appearance by being shaped like a pear . 
And yet I don't know said I , after a long fit of musing I don't know but what there is more to be said for the Oxford theory . 
The world to me tastes much more like an apple , and I have never liked apples . 
I will uphold the Oxford theory besides , I am writing in an Oxford Review , and am in duty bound to uphold the Oxford theory . 
I had good opportunity of judging I was connected with several departments of the Review , though more particularly with the poetical and philosophic ones . 
An English translation of Kant's philosophy made its appearance on my table the day before its publication . 
In my notice of this work I said that the English shortly hoped to give the Germans a QUID PRO QUO . 
I believe at that time authors were much in the habit of publishing at their own expense . 
All the poetry which I reviewed appeared to be published at the expense of the authors . 
Occasionally a word of admonition , but gently expressed , as an Oxford undergraduate might have expressed it , or master of arts . 
I did not like reviewing . 
It is no easy thing to tell a story plainly and distinctly by mouth but to tell one on paper is difficult indeed , so many snares lie in the way . 
I have always looked upon this sentence as a masterpiece of the narrative style , it is so concise and yet so very clear . 
Mine was an ill regulated mind at this period . 
As I read over the lives of these robbers and pickpockets , strange doubts began to arise in my mind about virtue and crime . 
, in which I attempted to prove that there is no such thing as crime or virtue , all our actions being the result of circumstances or necessity . 
should have been anything else than Bishop Latimer . 
I had a very ill regulated mind at that period . 
My own peculiar ideas with respect to everything being a lying dream began also to revive . 
CHAPTER XXXVII My brother Fits of crying Mayor elect The committee The Norman arch A word of Greek Church and State At my own expense If you please . 
ONE morning I arose somewhat later than usual , having been occupied during the greater part of the night with my literary toil . 
'And how are things going on at home ? said I to my brother , after we had kissed and embraced . 
'How is my mother , and how is the dog ? 'My mother , thank God , is tolerably well , said my brother , 'but very much given to fits of crying . 
We were silent for a time at last I opened my mouth and mentioned the dog . 
'The dog , said my brother , 'is , I am afraid , in a very poor way ever since the death he has done nothing but pine and take on . 
A few months ago , you remember , he was as plump and fine as any dog in the town but at present he is little more than skin and bone . 
It was very kind of you to come and see me . 
No , I did not come up on purpose to see you but on quite a different account . 
So a committee was formed some time ago , which is still sitting that is , they dine with the mayor every day to talk over the subject . 
and , what do you think ? offered me the painting of the mayor's portrait , and a hundred pounds for my trouble . 
He had no conception of the heroic , sir . 
We want some person capable of representing our mayor striding under the Norman arch out of the cathedral . 
At the mention of the heroic an idea came at once into my head . 
I have heard say that he is not a very good friend to Church and State . 
'To put a hundred pounds into the hands of 'A better man than myself , said my brother , 'of course . 
'And have you come up at your own expense ? 'Yes , said my brother , 'I have come up at my own expense . 
I made no answer , but looked in my brother's face . 
We then returned to the former subjects of conversation , talking of the dead , my mother , and the dog . 
Having expressed my willingness , we descended into the street . 
CHAPTER XXXVIII Painter of the heroic I'll go ! A modest peep Who is this ? A capital Pharaoh Disproportionably short Imaginary picture English figures . 
THE painter of the heroic resided a great way off , at the western end of the town . 
He recognised my brother , and appeared glad to see him . 
'What brings you to London ? said he . 
Whereupon my brother gave him a brief account of his commission . 
At the mention of the hundred pounds , I observed the eyes of the painter glisten . 
'Really , said he , when my brother had concluded , 'it was very kind to think of me . 
I am not very fond of painting portraits but a mayor is a mayor , and there is something grand in that idea of the Norman arch . 
I concluded , however , that the painter , notwithstanding what he had said , had omitted to give it the finishing touch . 
'I intend this to be my best picture , said the painter 'what I want now is a face for Pharaoh I have long been meditating on a face for Pharaoh . 
Here , chancing to cast his eye upon my countenance , of whom he had scarcely taken any manner of notice , he remained with his mouth open for some time . 
'Who is this ? said he at last . 
'Oh , this is my brother , I forgot to introduce him . 
We presently afterwards departed my brother talked much about the painter . 
I spent a happy day with my brother . 
On the morrow he went again to the painter , with whom he dined I did not go with him . 
'Ah ! said my brother . 
On the morrow my brother departed with the painter for the old town , and there the painter painted the mayor . 
I did not see the picture for a great many years , when , chancing to be at the old town , I beheld it . 
England may be a land of heroic hearts , but it is not , properly , a land of heroic figures , or heroic posture making . 
AND now once more to my pursuits , to my Lives and Trials . 
If a book of fairy tales was being compiled , he was sure to introduce some of his philosophy , explaining the fairy tale by some theory of his own . 
In the compilation of my Lives and Trials I was exposed to incredible mortification , and ceaseless trouble , from this same rage for interference . 
'Where is Brandt and Struensee ? cries the publisher 'I am sure I don't know , I replied whereupon the publisher falls to squealing like one of Joey's rats . 
'Find me up Brandt and Struensee by next morning , or 'Have you found Brandt and Struensee ? cried the publisher , on my appearing before him next morning . 
'No , I reply , 'I can hear nothing about them' whereupon the publisher falls to bellowing like Joey's bull . 
By dint of incredible diligence , I at length discover the dingy volume containing the lives and trials of the celebrated two who had brooded treason dangerous to the state of Denmark . 
I purchase the dingy volume , and bring it in triumph to the publisher , the perspiration running down my brow . 
The publisher takes the dingy volume in his hand , he examines it attentively , then puts it down his countenance is calm for a moment , almost benign . 
What could be the reason of all this ? All at once I bethought me that this street of Oxford was no other than the far famed Tyburn way . 
'Whose body is in that hearse ? said I to a dapper looking individual , seemingly a shopkeeper , who stood beside me on the pavement , looking at the procession . 
I looked at the individual for a moment , who smiled and smirked to himself applause , and then I turned my eyes upon the hearse proceeding slowly up the almost endless street . 
'Great poet , sir , said the dapper looking man , 'great poet , but unhappy . 
They have left a fame behind them which shall never die , whilst this lordling a time will come when he will be out of fashion and forgotten . 
And yet I don't know didn't he write Childe Harold and that ode ? Yes , he wrote Childe Harold and that ode . 
Then a time will scarcely come when he will be forgotten . 
Lords , squires , and cockneys may pass away , but a time will scarcely come when Childe Harold and that ode will be forgotten . 
'Great poet , sir , said the dapper man , turning away too , 'but unhappy fate of genius , sir I , too , am frequently unhappy . 
Hurrying down a street to the right , I encountered Francis Ardry . 
'What means the multitude yonder ? he demanded . 
'They are looking after the hearse which is carrying the remains of Byron up Tottenham Road . 
'Then come to Joey's , three dogs are to be launched at his bear as they pin him , imagine him to be the publisher . 
'No , said I , 'I am good for nothing I think I shall stroll to London Bridge . 
'That's too far for me farewell . 
CHAPTER XL London Bridge Why not ? Every heart has its bitters Wicked boys Give me my book Such a fright Honour bright . 
SO I went to London Bridge , and again took my station on the spot by the booth where I had stood on the former occasion . 
The booth , however , was empty neither the apple woman nor her stall was to be seen . 
I looked over the balustrade upon the river the tide was now , as before , rolling beneath the arch with frightful impetuosity . 
When I last stood over that abyss I had felt a kind of impulse a fascination I had resisted it I did not plunge into it . 
'Well , mother , said I , 'how are you ? The old woman lifted her head with a startled look . 
'Don't you know me ? said I. 'Yes , I think I do . 
Ah , yes , said she , as her features beamed with recollection , 'I know you , dear you are the young lad that gave me the tanner . 
Well , child , got anything to sell ? 'Nothing at all , said I. 'Bad luck ? 'Yes , said I , 'bad enough , and ill usage . 
'Ah , I suppose they caught ye well , child , never mind , better luck next time I am glad to see you . 
'Thank you , said I , sitting down on the stone bench 'I thought you had left the bridge why have you changed your side ? The old woman shook . 
Only low , child every heart has its bitters . 
'Book , child , what book ? 'Why , blessed Mary , to be sure . 
'Oh , that I ha'n't got it , child I have lost it , have left it at home . 
'Lost it , said I 'left it at home what do you mean ? Come , let me have it . 
'I ha'n't got it , child . 
'I believe you have got it under your cloak . 
'Don't tell any one , dear don't don't , and the apple woman burst into tears . 
'What's the matter with you ? said I , staring at her . 
'The book ? 'Yes , they wanted to take it from me . 
'Who did ? 'Why , some wicked boys . 
I'll tell you all about it . 
What book is this ? said he , grinning at it . 
What do you want with my book ? said I , clutching at it over my stall give me my book . 
What do you want a book for ? said he , holding it back I have a good mind to fling it into the Thames . 
Give me my book , I shrieked and , snatching at it , I fell over my stall , and all my fruit was scattered about . 
Off ran the boys off ran the rascal with my book . 
I left my fruit and ran after my book . 
Stop them ! stop them ! I ran nearly as fast as they they couldn't run very fast on account of the crowd . 
Has he robbed you ? said the man . 
Robbed me , indeed why he had got my book . 
Oh , your book , said the man , and laughed , and let the rascal go . 
Ah , he might laugh , but 'Well , go on . 
Well , I went back to my booth and picked up my stall and my fruits , what I could find of them . 
Oh , the rascals , if I could but see them hanged . 
'For what ? 'Why , for stealing my book . 
'I thought you didn't dislike stealing , that you were ready to buy things there was your son , you know 'Yes , to be sure . 
'To be sure he did . 
'But you don't like a thing of yours to be taken . 
'Do you , dear ? well , bless your heart , I'm glad you do . 
Would you like to look at the book ? 'Well , I think I should . 
'Honour bright ? said the apple woman , looking me in the eyes . 
'Honour bright , said I , looking the apple woman in the eyes . 
CHAPTER XLI Decease of the Review Homer himself Bread and cheese Finger and thumb Impossible to find Something grand Universal mixture Some other publisher . 
TIME passed away , and with it the Review , which , contrary to the publisher's expectation , did not prove a successful speculation . 
About four months after the period of its birth it expired , as all Reviews must for which there is no demand . 
So authors took fright and no wonder , for it will never do for an author to be considered low . 
Homer himself has never yet entirely recovered from the injury he received by Lord Chesterfield's remark that the speeches of his heroes were frequently exceedingly low . 
Owing to the bad success of the Review , the publisher became more furious than ever . 
My money was growing short , and I one day asked him to pay me for my labours in the deceased publication . 
'Sir , said the publisher , 'what do you want the money for ? 'Merely to live on , I replied 'it is very difficult to live in this town without money . 
'How much money did you bring with you to town ? demanded the publisher . 
'Some twenty or thirty pounds , I replied . 
'And you have spent it already ? 'No , said I , 'not entirely but it is fast disappearing . 
'Yes , said I , 'I eat meat sometimes what should I eat ? 'Bread , sir , said the publisher 'bread and cheese . 
My last bread and cheese dinner cost me fourteenpence . 
There is drink , sir with bread and cheese one must drink porter , sir . 
'Then , sir , eat bread bread alone . 
As good men as yourself have eaten bread alone they have been glad to get it , sir . 
If with bread and cheese you must drink porter , sir , with bread alone you can , perhaps , drink water , sir . 
So ill , indeed , did I like this last action , that I felt much inclined to snatch them away . 
Amongst these was the life of 'Gentleman Harry . 
The reader , has , I hope , not forgotten Taggart , whom I mentioned whilst giving an account of my first morning's visit to the publisher . 
'I scarcely know , said I 'that is , I can scarcely express what I think it . 
'Shall I help you out ? said Taggart , turning round his chair , and looking at me . 
'Well , said he , 'why don't you write something grand ? 'I have , said I. 'What ? said Taggart . 
'Why , said I , 'there are those ballads . 
'And those wonderful versions from Ab Gwilym . 
'You seem to be very fond of snuff , said I , looking at him angrily . 
'Have you taken it long ? 'Three and twenty years . 
'What snuff do you take ? 'Universal mixture . 
'And you find it of use ? Taggart tapped his box . 
'In what respect ? said I. 'In many there is nothing like it to get a man through but for snuff I should scarcely be where I am now . 
'Have you been long here ? 'Three and twenty years . 
'Dear me , said I 'and snuff brought you through ? Give me a pinch pah , I don't like it , and I sneezed . 
'Take another pinch , said Taggart . 
'No , said I , 'I don't like snuff . 
'Then you will never do for authorship at least for this kind . 
'So I begin to think what shall I do ? Taggart took snuff . 
'You were talking of a great work what shall it be ? Taggart took snuff . 
'Do you think I could write one ? Taggart uplifted his two forefingers as if to tap , he did not however . 
'It would require time , said I , with a half sigh . 
'A great deal of time I really think that my ballads Taggart took snuff . 
'If published , would do me credit . 
I'll make an effort , and offer them to some other publisher . 
Taggart took a double quantity of snuff . 
CHAPTER XLII Francis Ardry That won't do , sir Observe my gestures I think you improve Better than politics Delightful young Frenchwoman A burning shame Magnificent impudence Paunch Voltaire Lump of sugar . 
OCCASIONALLY I called on Francis Ardry . 
This young gentleman resided in handsome apartments in the neighbourhood of a fashionable square , kept a livery servant , and , upon the whole , lived in very good style . 
Filled with some surprise , I obeyed his summons . 
'Good , sir good ! he occasionally uttered , in the same sharp , cracked tone , as the voice of Francis Ardry became more and more vehement . 
Good , sir very good ! as the voice of Francis Ardry declined gradually in vehemence . 
'And now a little pathos , sir try them with a little pathos . 
Now , sir , observe my gestures , and pay attention to the tone of my voice , sir . 
After a pause , Francis Ardry recommenced imitating the tones and the gestures of his monitor in the most admirable manner . 
'Ha , ha ! said the other , good humouredly , 'you are laughing at me . 
Well , well , I merely wished to give you a hint but you saw very well what I meant upon the whole I think you improve . 
But I must now go , having two other pupils to visit before four . 
'Who is that gentleman ? said I to Francis Ardry , as soon as were alone . 
'Oh , that is said Frank , smiling , 'the gentleman who gives me lessons in elocution . 
I dare not disobey them for , at the present moment , I have particular reasons for wishing to keep on good terms with them . 
Not that I care anything about the matter I merely obey the will of my guardians my thoughts are fixed on something better than politics . 
'Not thinking of dog fighting ! I ejaculated . 
'No , said Francis Ardry , 'something higher and much more rational than dog fighting at present occupies my thoughts . 
'Dear me , said I , 'I thought I had heard you say that there was nothing like it ! 'Like what ? said Francis Ardry . 
Listen to me , I have a secret to confide to you . 
And then Francis Ardry proceeded to make me his confidant . 
'And is competent to judge ? I demanded . 
'Who but he ? said Francis Ardry 'no one questions his judgment concerning what relates to elocution . 
'Well , said I , 'whatever his qualifications may be , I wish him success in the cause which he has taken up I love religious liberty . 
'There is one thing , said I , 'connected with this matter which surprises me your own lukewarmness . 
The priests are the originators , 'and what country was ever benefited by a movement which owed its origin to them ? so says Voltaire , a page of whom I occasionally read . 
By the present move they hope to increase their influence , and to further certain designs which they entertain both with regard to this country and Ireland . 
I do not speak rashly or unadvisedly . 
Were I my own master , I would kick him , politics , and religious movements , to a considerable distance . 
And now , if you are going away , do so quickly I have an appointment with Annette , and must make myself fit to appear before her . 
CHAPTER XLIII Progress Glorious John Utterly unintelligible What a difference . 
After keeping it for a fortnight , he returned it to me on my visiting him , and , taking a pinch of snuff , told me it would not do . 
Glorious John was no snuff taker . 
He asked me to dinner , and treated me with superb Rhenish wine . 
Glorious John is now gone to his rest , but I what was I going to say ? the world will never forget Glorious John . 
So I returned to my last resource for the time then being to the publisher , persevering doggedly in my labour . 
One day , on visiting the publisher , I found him stamping with fury upon certain fragments of paper . 
'Sir , said he , 'you know nothing of German I have shown your translation of the first chapter of my Philosophy to several Germans it is utterly unintelligible to them . 
'Did they see the Philosophy ? I replied . 
'They did , sir , but they did not profess to understand English . 
'No more do I , I replied , 'if that Philosophy be English . 
The publisher was furious I was silent . 
To be brief , the compilation was completed , I got paid in the usual manner , and forthwith left him . 
So I sat with her at the old spot , one afternoon past midwinter , reading the book , of which I had by this time come to the last pages . 
I had observed that the old woman for some time past had shown much less anxiety about the book than she had been in the habit of doing . 
'You may keep it , dear , said the old woman , with a sigh 'you may carry it to your lodging , and keep it for your own . 
Porter and beef steaks were no longer grateful to her palate , her present diet chiefly consisting of tea , and bread and butter . 
'Ah , said I , 'you have been ill , and when people are ill , they seldom like the things which give them pleasure when they are in health . 
There were certain words that came into her mind the night before the last , which were continually humming in her ears I found that the words were , 'Thou shalt not steal . 
Education had failed to produce any good in this poor woman on the contrary , there could be little doubt that she had been injured by it . 
'Necessity ! I exclaimed , and cracked my finger joints . 
'Ah , it is a bad thing , said the old woman . 
'What is a bad thing ? said I. 'Why to be poor , dear . 
'You talk like a fool , said I , 'riches and poverty are only different forms of necessity . 
'You should not call me a fool , dear you should not call your own mother a fool . 
'After all , I don't know that you are not my mother . 
'Don't you , dear ? I'm glad of it I wish you would make it out . 
'What people , dear ? 'You and I. 'Lord , child , you are mad that book has made you so . 
'Don't abuse it , said I 'the book is an excellent one , that is , provided it exists . 
'I wish it did not , said the old woman 'but it shan't long I'll burn it , or fling it into the river the voices at night tell me to do so . 
'Don't talk so , dear . 
'Then I will fling it into the river . 
'Don't do that here , give it me . 
Now what shall I do with it ? you were so fond of it . 
'I am so no longer . 
'What was the other ? 'I think they called it the Bible all about God , and Job , and Jesus . 
'Ah , I know it . 
By the bye , what do you call Bible in your tongue , or , indeed , book of any kind ? as Bible merely means a book . 
'What do I call the Bible in my language , dear ? 'Yes , the language of those who bring you things . 
'The language of those who DID , dear they bring them now no longer . 
They call me fool , as you did , dear , just now they call kissing the Bible , which means taking a false oath , smacking calf skin . 
'Well , then , I'll buy you one . 
Selecting a small apple , he gave the old woman a penny then , after looking at me scrutinisingly for a moment , he moved from the booth in the direction of Southwark . 
'Do you know who that man is ? said I to the old woman . 
I don't know him , but he has once or twice sat down in the booth with two strange looking men Mulattos , or Lascars , I think they call them . 
CHAPTER XLV Bought and exchanged Quite empty A new firm Bibles Countenance of a lion Clap of thunder A truce with this I have lost it Clearly a right Goddess of the Mint . 
I went to several shops , and asked if Bibles were to be had I found that there were plenty . 
When , however , I informed the people that I came to barter , they looked blank , and declined treating with me saying that they did not do business in that way . 
'What do you laugh for ? said I , angrily , and half clenching my fist . 
'Laugh ! said the young fellow 'laugh ! who could help laughing ? 'I could , said I 'I see nothing to laugh at I want to exchange this book for a Bible . 
'You do ? said the young fellow 'well , I daresay there are plenty who would be willing to exchange , that is , if they dared . 
I wish master were at home but that would never do , either . 
Whereupon , looking anxiously at the young man , 'What am I to do ? said I 'I really want a Bible . 
All at once he laughed louder than before suddenly stopping , however , he put on a very grave look . 
I was not quite right , nor quite wrong picking up one of the books , I looked at it for a moment , and found it to be the New Testament . 
Deal , thought I , deal , the man seems to know what I am coming about , and going in , I presently found myself in a very large room . 
Behind a counter two men stood with their backs to a splendid fire , warming themselves , for the weather was cold . 
'What is your business , young man ? said the precise personage , as I stood staring at him and his companion . 
'I want a Bible , said I. 'What price , what size ? said the precise looking man . 
'As to size , said I , 'I should like to have a large one that is , if you can afford me one I do not come to buy . 
'Oh , we don't barter , said the precise man , 'at least Bibles you had better depart . 
There was silence for about a minute the same kind of silence which succeeds a clap of thunder . 
It is not easy to believe in the Bible till one is convinced that there is a Bible . 
'He seems to be insane , said the prim looking man 'we had better order the porter to turn him out . 
'Come , said the lion looking man , impatiently , 'a truce with this nonsense . 
'What has she sent to offer in exchange ? said the man , without taking any notice of the concluding part of my speech . 
'A book , said I. 'Let me see it . 
'I wish to see what he has brought , said the other 'perhaps Baxter , or Jewell's APOLOGY , either of which would make a valuable addition to our collection . 
Well , young man , what's the matter with you ? I stood like one petrified I had put my hand into my pocket the book was gone . 
'What's the matter ? repeated the man with the lion countenance , in a voice very much resembling thunder . 
'I have it not I have lost it ! 'A pretty story , truly , said the precise looking man , 'lost it ! You had better retire , said the other . 
'They are so you had better retire . 
I moved towards the door . 
'Stay , young man , one word more there is only one way of proceeding which would induce me to believe that you are sincere . 
'What is that ? said I , stopping and looking at him anxiously . 
'The purchase of a Bible . 
'Yes , I repeated , 'I have clearly a right to make it good how glad I am ! see the effect of a little reflection . 
I will purchase a Bible instantly , that is , if I have not lost and with considerable agitation I felt in my pocket . 
The prim looking man smiled 'I suppose , said he , 'that he has lost his money as well as book . 
'No , said I , 'I have not' and pulling out my hand I displayed no less a sum than three half crowns . 
'Queer customer , said the prim looking man , as I was about to close the door 'don't like him . 
'Why , as to that , I scarcely know what to say , said he of the countenance of a lion . 
The individual whom I addressed , turning round with a start , glanced at me , and then at the person whom I held . 
London is the place for strange rencounters . 
'Rascal , said the other , 'you have got my pocket book in your bosom . 
'No , I have not , said the other and , struggling more violently than before , the pocket book dropped from his bosom upon the ground . 
The other was now about to lay hands upon the fellow , who was still struggling . 
'You had better take up your book , said I 'I can hold him . 
He followed my advice and , taking up his pocket book , surveyed my prisoner with a ferocious look , occasionally glaring at me . 
'Well , said I , at last , 'what am I to do with this gentleman of ours ? nodding to the prisoner , who had now left off struggling . 
'Shall I let him go ? 'Go ! said the other 'go ! The knave the rascal let him go , indeed ! Not so , he shall go before the Lord Mayor . 
'Oh , let me go , said the other 'let me go this is the first offence , I assure ye the first time I ever thought to do anything wrong . 
'Hold your tongue , said I , 'or I shall be angry with you . 
If I am not very much mistaken , you once attempted to cheat me . 
'I never saw you before in all my life , said the fellow , though his countenance seemed to belie his words . 
'I don't doubt it , said the other 'a confirmed thief' and here his tones became peculiarly sharp 'I would fain see him hanged crucified . 
'I am no constable , said I 'you have got your pocket book , I would rather you would bid me let him go . 
'Oh , said he , and smiled , and there was something peculiar in his smile , 'I remember now . 
Do you frequently sit on London Bridge ? 'Occasionally , said I 'that old woman is an old friend of mine . 
'Friend ? said the stranger , 'I am glad of it , for I shall know where to find you . 
At present I am going to 'Change time , you know , is precious to a merchant . 
We were by this time close to Cheapside . 
'Farewell , said he , 'I shall not forget this service . 
I trust we shall soon meet again . 
He then shook me by the hand and went his way . 
Our discourse rolled chiefly on philological matters . 
Morro manro ! I rather think morro is the oldest form it is easier to say morro than manro . 
Morro ! Irish , aran Welsh , bara English , bread . 
I can see a resemblance between all the words , and pannam too and I rather think that the Petulengrian word is the elder . 
In Armenian it is 'Zhats ! said the stranger , starting up . 
After the lapse of a few days , I called at the house which he had indicated . 
It was situated in a dark and narrow street , in the heart of the City , at no great distance from the Bank . 
I entered a counting room , in which a solitary clerk , with a foreign look , was writing . 
The stranger was not at home returning the next day , however , I met him at the door as he was about to enter he shook me warmly by the hand . 
'I am glad to see you , said he , 'follow me , I was just thinking of you . 
The apartment above stairs , to which he led me , was large , with three windows , which opened upon the street . 
The walls were hung with wired cases , apparently containing books . 
Seating himself upon the sofa , my new acquaintance motioned to me to sit beside him , and then , looking me full in the face , repeated his former inquiry . 
'Kini , said my companion and that and the other word put me in mind of the duties of hospitality . 
I hope you like my fare , said he , after we had both eaten and drunk . 
'I like your bread , said I , 'for it is stale I like not your wine , it is sweet , and I hate sweet wine . 
'So , said I , after a pause , looking at my companion , 'you are an Armenian . 
'Yes , said he , 'an Armenian born in London , but not less an Armenian on that account . 
In Ispahan he passed the greater portion of his life , following mercantile pursuits with considerable success . 
Certain enemies , however , having accused him to the despot of the place , of using seditious language , he was compelled to flee , leaving most of his property behind . 
'Learning without money is anything but desirable , said the Armenian , 'as it unfits a man for humble occupations . 
'You are mistaken , said I 'many languages resemble the Armenian both in structure and words . 
'For example ? said the Armenian . 
'For example , said I , 'the English . 
'The English ! said the Armenian 'show me one word in which the English resembles the Armenian . 
'You walk on London Bridge , said I. 'Yes , said the Armenian . 
'I saw you look over the balustrade the other morning . 
'True , said the Armenian . 
'Well , what did you see rushing up through the arches with noise and foam ? 'What was it ? said the Armenian . 
How strange , how singular I thank you . 
It is a proud thing to see that the language of my race has had so much influence over the languages of the world . 
I saw that all that related to his race was the weak point of the Armenian . 
I did not flatter the Armenian with respect to his race or language . 
'An inconsiderable people , said I , 'shrewd and industrious , but still an inconsiderable people . 
A language bold and expressive , and of some antiquity , derived , though perhaps not immediately , from some much older tongue . 
The Armenian spoke contemptuously of Mr. Petulengro and his race . 
'Don't speak contemptuously of Mr. Petulengro , said I , 'nor of anything belonging to him . 
Can you cast accounts ? I shook my head . 
'Keep books ? 'I have an idea that I could write books , said I 'but , as to keeping them and here again I shook my head . 
'The books in these cases , said he , 'contain the masterpieces of Haik learning . 
'No , said I 'all I know of the learning of the Haiks is their translation of the Bible . 
'You have never read Z ? 'No , said I , 'I have never read Z . 
He is our Esop , the most acute and clever of all our moral writers his philosophy 'I will have nothing to do with him , said I. 'Wherefore ? said the Armenian . 
'There is an old proverb , said I , that a burnt child avoids the fire . 
'You would find me very different from the publisher . 
deserves to be crucified , he is continually making mistakes . 
I presently took my departure not , however , before I had received from the Armenian a pressing invitation to call upon him whenever I should feel disposed . 
CHAPTER XLVIII What to do Strong enough Fame and profit Alliterative euphony Excellent fellow Listen to me A plan Bagnigge Wells . 
ANXIOUS thoughts frequently disturbed me at this time with respect to what I was to do , and how support myself in the Great City . 
The publisher , insolent and overbearing as he was , whatever he might have wished or thought , had never lifted his hand against me , or told me that I merited crucifixion . 
What should I do ? I thought that I would make a last and desperate attempt to dispose of the ballads and of Ab Gwilym . 
I had not seen Francis Ardry since the day I had seen him taking lessons in elocution . 
'I might ask the same question of you , I replied . 
I returned an evasive answer . 
I was aware that Francis Ardry was an excellent fellow but , on that very account , I felt , under existing circumstances , a delicacy in visiting him . 
It is very possible that he had an inkling of how matters stood , as he presently began to talk of my affairs and prospects . 
I told him of my late ill success with the booksellers , and inveighed against their blindness to their own interest in refusing to publish my translations . 
'The last that I addressed myself to , said I , 'told me not to trouble him again unless I could bring him a decent novel or a tale . 
At present I feel divested of all energy heartless , and almost hopeless . 
'I see how it is , said Francis Ardry , 'you have overworked yourself , and , worst of all , to no purpose . 
Take my advice cast all care aside , and only think of diverting yourself for a month at least . 
'Divert myself ! said I 'and where am I to find the means ? 'Be that care on my shoulders , said Francis Ardry . 
Now , my plan is this Take the money , dress yourself fashionably , and conduct Annette's sister to Bagnigge Wells . 
'And what should we do at Bagnigge Wells ? 'Do ! said Francis Ardry . 
'Dance ! 'But , said I , 'I scarcely know anything of dancing . 
'Then here's an excellent opportunity of improving yourself . 
'I never heard a more foolish , plan , said I , 'or one less likely to terminate profitably or satisfactorily . 
I thank you , however , for your offer , which is , I daresay , well meant . 
CHAPTER XLIX Singular personage A large sum Papa of Rome We are Christians Degenerate Armenians Roots of Ararat Regular features . 
THE Armenian ! I frequently saw this individual , availing myself of the permission which he had given me to call upon him . 
A truly singular personage was he , with his love of amassing money , and his nationality so strong as to be akin to poetry . 
But he was fond of money , very fond . 
Within a little time I had won his confidence to such a degree that he informed me that the grand wish of his heart was to be possessed of two hundred thousand pounds . 
'I think you might satisfy yourself with the half , said I. 'One hundred thousand pounds is a large sum . 
'You are mistaken , said the Armenian , 'a hundred thousand pounds is nothing . 
My father left me that or more at his death . 
No , I shall never be satisfied with less than two . 
'It is bad enough , I daresay , said the Armenian 'it will , however , be time enough to think of disposing of the money when I have procured it . 
I still fall short by a vast sum of the two hundred thousand pounds . 
and then the Armenian told me of several things which the Haiks believed or disbelieved . 
'But , by your own confession , said I , 'he has introduced a schism in your nation , and has amongst you many that believe in him . 
I humoured the fellow at first , keeping him in play for nearly a month , deceiving and laughing at him . 
Accept a seat at the desk opposite to my Moldavian clerk , and receive the rudiments of a merchant's education . 
You shall be instructed in the Armenian way of doing business I think you would make an excellent merchant . 
'Why do you think so ? 'Because you have something of the Armenian look . 
'I understand you , said I 'you mean to say that I squint ! 'Not exactly , said the Armenian , 'but there is certainly a kind of irregularity in your features . 
One eye appears to me larger than the other never mind , but rather rejoice in that irregularity consists your strength . 
Well ! will you accept my offer ? No ! you are a singular individual but I must not forget my own concerns . 
I must now go forth , having an appointment by which I hope to make money . 
CHAPTER L Wish fulfilled Extraordinary figure Bueno Noah The two faces I don't blame him Too fond of money Were I an Armenian . 
THE fulfilment of the Armenian's grand wish was nearer at hand than either he or I had anticipated . 
'Well , said I , 'and what do you intend to do next ? 'I scarcely know , said the Armenian . 
'I was thinking of that when you came in . 
I don't see anything that I can do , save going on in my former course . 
And it came to pass that , as we were seated over the Cyprus wine , we heard a knock at the door . 
On his head he wore a high peaked hat he was tall , had a hooked nose , and in age was about fifty . 
'Welcome , Rabbi Manasseh , said the Armenian . 
'I know your knock you are welcome sit down . 
Thereupon a conversation ensued between Rabbi Manasseh and the Armenian , in a language which I knew to be Spanish , though a peculiar dialect . 
It related to a mercantile transaction . 
The Rabbi sighed heavily as he delivered to the other a considerable sum of money . 
'It is right , said the Armenian , handing a receipt . 
'It is right and I am quite satisfied . 
'You are satisfied you have taken money . 
BUENO , I have nothing to say against your being satisfied . 
I love Noah when he is himself but , as Janus , I love him not . 
But you are merry BUENO , you have a right to be so . 
and I drew the side of my right hand sharply across my left wrist . 
'Are you one of our people ? said the Rabbi . 
'No , said I , 'I am one of the Goyim but I am only half enlightened . 
Why should Noah be Janus when he was in that state ? 'He he he ! you must know that in Lasan akhades wine is janin . 
And , with this last word in his mouth , he departed . 
'Is that man a native of Spain ? I demanded . 
'The Jews are a singular people , said I. 'A race of cowards and dastards , said the Armenian , 'without a home or country servants to servants persecuted and despised by all . 
'And what are the Haiks ? I demanded . 
'Then it is a shame that they do not become so , said I 'but they are too fond of money . 
There is yourself , with two hundred thousand pounds in your pocket , craving for more , whilst you might be turning your wealth to the service of your country . 
'In what manner ? said the Armenian . 
It is not every one who has been brought up in the school of Mr. Petulengro and Tawno Chikno . 
All I can say is , that if I were an Armenian , and had two hundred thousand pounds to back me , I would attack the Persian . 
'Hem ! said the Armenian . 
CHAPTER LI The one half crown Merit in patience Cementer of friendship Dreadful perplexity The usual guttural Armenian letters Much indebted to you Pure helplessness Dumb people . 
it was not every one of the booksellers' writers of London who was competent to translate the Haik Esop . 
I determined to accept the offer of the Armenian . 
Yes , should the Armenian insist upon it , I will accept a seat at the desk , opposite the Moldavian clerk . 
I think I should , in the event of his cuffing me , knock the Armenian down . 
With a quick step I entered the counting room , where , notwithstanding the earliness of the hour , I found the clerk , busied as usual at his desk . 
He had always appeared to me a singular being , this same Moldavian clerk . 
The Moldavian clerk replied with his usual guttural , and , opening his desk , ensconced his head therein . 
'It does not much matter , said I 'I suppose I shall find him at home after 'Change it does not much matter , I can return . 
I took the letter , and the Moldavian clerk forthwith resumed his occupation . 
When these lines are delivered to you , I shall be on the route to Ararat . 
Think not , however , that motives of lucre would have been sufficiently powerful to tempt me to the East at the present moment . 
I may speculate , it is true , but I should scarcely have undertaken the journey but for your pungent words inciting me to attack the Persians . 
Doubt not that I will attack them on the first opportunity . 
I thank you heartily for putting me in mind of my duty . 
I have hitherto , to use your own words , been too fond of money getting , like all my countrymen . 
I am much indebted to you farewell ! and may every prosperity await you . 
For some time after I had deciphered the epistle , I stood as if rooted to the floor . 
I felt stunned my last hope was gone presently a feeling arose in my mind a feeling of self reproach . 
What was I to do ? I looked wildly around , till my eyes rested on the Moldavian clerk , who was writing away in his ledger with particular vehemence . 
Whereupon the Moldavian clerk , looking up from his ledger , made certain signs , which I could by no means understand . 
CHAPTER LII Kind of stupor Peace of God Divine hand Farewell , child The fair Massive edifice Battered tars Lost ! lost ! Good day , gentlemen . 
At first , I believe , I answered her very incoherently , for I observed alarm beginning to depict itself upon her countenance . 
Rousing myself , however , I in my turn put a few questions to her upon her present condition and prospects . 
After a pause , the old woman said to me , 'I believe , dear , that it is the blessed book you brought me which has wrought this goodly change . 
But the thought of my own situation did not permit me to abandon myself much longer to these musings . 
'Where are you going , child ? said the woman , anxiously . 
'I scarcely know , said I 'anywhere . 
'Then stay here , child , said she 'I have much to say to you . 
I stopped for a moment and deliberated whether or not I should proceed . 
After gazing at the horse racing for a little time , feeling myself somewhat tired , I went up to one of the tents , and laid myself down on the grass . 
There was much noise in the tent . 
'Who will stand me ? said a voice with a slight tendency to lisp . 
'Will you , my lord ? 'Yes , said another voice . 
Then there was a sound as of a piece of money banging on a table . 
'Never cheated any one in my life , my lord all fair all chance . 
Them that finds , wins them that can't finds , loses . 
Anyone else try ? Who'll try ? Will you , my lord ? and then it appeared that some other lord tried , for I heard more money flung down . 
Then again the cry of 'lost ! lost ! then again the sound of money , and so on . 
'Thank you , said I , 'it's a fine day . 
'Very fine , my lord will your lordship play ? Them that finds , wins them that don't finds , loses . 
'Play at what ? said I. 'Only at the thimble and pea , my lord . 
'I never heard of such a game . 
'Didn't you ? Well , I'll soon teach you , said he , placing the table down . 
'All you have to do is to put a sovereign down on my table , and to find the pea , which I put under one of my thimbles . 
If you find it , and it is easy enough to find it , I give you a sovereign besides your own for them that finds , wins . 
'And them that don't finds , loses , said I 'no , I don't wish to play . 
'Why not , my lord ? 'Why , in the first place , I have no money . 
'Oh , you have no money , that of course alters the case . 
If you have no money , you can't play . 
Well , I suppose I must be seeing after my customers , said he , glancing over the plain . 
'Good day , said I. 'Good day , said the man slowly , but without moving , and as if in reflection . 
After a moment or two , looking at me inquiringly , he added , 'Out of employ ? 'Yes , said I , 'out of employ . 
The man measured me with his eye as I lay on the ground . 
'Why do you call me my lord ? said I , as I arose and followed him . 
'We of the thimble always calls our customers lords , said the man 'but I won't call you such a foolish name any more come along . 
'So you are in want of employ ? said he , after I had sat down beside him . 
'Yes , said I , 'I am very much in want of employ . 
'I think I can find you some . 
'What kind ? said I. 'Why , said the man , 'I think you would do to be my bonnet . 
'In a word , said I , 'the bonnet means the man who covers you , even as the real bonnet covers the head . 
'I just so , said the man 'I see you are awake , and would soon make a first rate bonnet . 
'Bonnet , said I , musingly 'bonnet it is metaphorical . 
'Is it ? said the man . 
'That is not cant , said I , 'that is the language of the Rommany Chals . 
'Do you know those people ? said the man . 
'Perfectly , said I , 'and their language too . 
'I wish I did , said the man 'I would give ten pounds and more to know the language of the Rommany Chals . 
There's some of it in the language of the pea and thimble how it came there I don't know , but so it is . 
I wish I knew it , but it is difficult . 
You'll make a capital bonnet shall we close ? 'What would the wages be ? I demanded . 
'Why , to a first rate bonnet , as I think you would prove , I could afford to give from forty to fifty shillings a week . 
'Is it possible ? said I. 'Good wages , ain't they ? said the man . 
'First rate , said I 'bonneting is more profitable than reviewing . 
'Anan ? said the man . 
'Or translating I don't think the Armenian would have paid me at that rate for translating his Esop . 
'Who is he ? said the man . 
'Esop ? 'No , I know what that is , Esop's cant for a hunchback but t'other ? 'You should know , said I. 'Never saw the man in all my life . 
'And wisely resolved , said I 'it was a bad and dangerous trade , I wonder you should ever have embraced it . 
'Well , said I , 'how did you get over that difficulty ? 'Why , said the man , 'I thought I should never have got over it . 
I was at my wits' ends at last I got over my difficulty in the strangest way in the world . 
'What was that ? 'By an old thing which I had picked up some time before a book . 
'A book ? said I. 'Yes , which I had taken out of your lordship's pocket one day as you were walking the streets in a great hurry . 
I thought it was a pocket book at first , full of bank notes , perhaps , continued he , laughing . 
Nonsense , said the first man , there are plenty of them , there have been nearly fifty editions , to my knowledge I will give you five shillings . 
Stop , said the younger man are you sure that you won't take less ? Not a farthing , said I which was not altogether true , but I said so . 
Then they looked at one another , and smiled , and shrugged up their shoulders . 
'So , after all , they outwitted you , I observed . 
'Well , said the man , 'did she ever get her Bible ? 'Yes , said I , 'she got her Bible . 
Here am I ready to make you my bonnet , with forty or fifty shillings a week , which you say yourself are capital wages . 
'I find no fault with the wages , said I , 'but I don't like the employ . 
'Is it a difficult one ? I demanded . 
He moved the thimble and pellet about , now placing it to all appearance under one , and now under another 'Under which is it now ? he said at last . 
'Under that , said I , pointing to the lowermost of the thimbles , which , as they stood , formed a kind of triangle . 
'No , said he , 'it is not , but lift it up' and , when I lifted up the thimble , the pellet , in truth , was not under it . 
'Merely for my own pleasure , said I 'I like sitting here very well . 
'Then you won't close ? said the man . 
'By no means , I replied 'your proposal does not suit me . 
'You may be principal in time , said the man . 
'That makes no difference , said I and , sitting with my legs over the pit , I forthwith began to decline an Armenian noun . 
'That ain't cant , said the man 'no , nor gypsy either . 
Well , if you won't close , another will , I can't lose any more time , and forthwith he departed . 
Presently I came to where the man of the thimbles was standing , with the table before him , and many people about him . 
'Them who finds , wins , and them who can't find , loses , he cried . 
Various individuals tried to find the pellet , but all were unsuccessful , till at last considerable dissatisfaction was expressed , and the terms rogue and cheat were lavished upon him . 
'Never cheated anybody in all my life , he cried and , observing me at hand , 'didn't I play fair , my lord ? he inquired . 
But I made no answer . 
Presently some more played , and he permitted one or two to win , and the eagerness to play with him became greater . 
CHAPTER LIV Mr. Petulengro Rommany Rye Lil writers One's own horn Lawfully earnt money The wooded hill A great favourite The shop window Much wanted . 
It was Mr. Petulengro , who was here diverting himself with several of his comrades they all received me with considerable frankness . 
'Sit down , brother , said Mr. Petulengro , 'and take a cup of good ale . 
'Your health , gentlemen , said I , as I took the cup which Mr. Petulengro handed to me . 
'Aukko tu pios adrey Rommanis . 
Here is your health in Rommany , brother , said Mr. Petulengro who , having refilled the cup , now emptied it at a draught . 
'Your health in Rommany , brother , said Tawno Chikno , to whom the cup came next . 
'The Rommany Rye , said a third . 
'The Gypsy gentleman , exclaimed a fourth , drinking . 
'How much money have you got in your pocket , brother ? said Mr. Petulengro . 
'Eighteenpence , said I 'all I have in the world . 
Brother , there is considerable difference between us . 
'I would rather be the lil writer , after all , said the tall , handsome , black man 'indeed , I would wish for nothing better . 
'Why so ? said Mr. Petulengro . 
'Because they have so much to say for themselves , said the black man , 'even when dead and gone . 
When they are laid in the churchyard , it is their own fault if people ain't talking of them . 
That's true , Tawno however , here's our brother will perhaps let the world know something about us . 
After a little more conversation , Mr. Petulengro arose , and motioned me to follow him . 
'Only eighteenpence in the world , brother ? said he , as we walked together . 
'Nothing more , I assure you . 
I was looking at my own face this morning in my wife's looking glass I did not look as you do , brother . 
'What is the use of having money unless you let people know you have it ? said Mr. Petulengro . 
'You are very kind , said I 'but I will not take it . 
'Then the half of it ? 'Nor the half of it but it is getting towards evening , I must go back to the Great City . 
'And what will you do in the Boro Foros ? 'I know not , said I. 'Earn money ? 'If I can . 
'And if you can't ? 'Starve ! 'You look ill , brother , said Mr. Petulengro . 
'I do not feel well the Great City does not agree with me . 
Should I be so fortunate as to earn some money , I would leave the Big City , and take to the woods and fields . 
'You may do that , brother , said Mr. Petulengro , 'whether you have money or not . 
'What hill is that ? I demanded . 
And then Mr. Petulengro told me the name of the hill . 
'We shall stay on t'other side of the hill a fortnight , he continued 'and , as you are fond of lil writing , you may employ yourself profitably whilst there . 
You can write the lil of him whose dock gallops down that hill every night , even as the living man was wont to do long ago . 
'Who was he ? I demanded . 
'Jemmy Abershaw , said Mr. Petulengro 'one of those whom we call Boro drom engroes , and the gorgios highway men . 
At first I felt inclined to accept the invitation of Mr. Petulengro a little consideration , however , determined me to decline it . 
I reflected , moreover , that Mr. Petulengro had a wife . 
As I stood listlessly looking at the window , and the publications which it contained , I observed a paper affixed to the glass by wafers with something written upon it . 
I drew yet nearer for the purpose of inspecting it the writing was in a fair round hand 'A Novel or Tale is much wanted , was what was written . 
CHAPTER LV Bread and water Pair play Fashion Colonel B Joseph Sell The kindly glow Easiest manner imaginable . 
'I MUST do something , said I , as I sat that night in my lonely apartment , with some bread and a pitcher of water before me . 
Thereupon taking some of the bread , and eating it , I considered what I was to do . 
Suppose I write one , I appear to have no other chance of extricating myself from my present difficulties surely it was Fate that conducted me to his window . 
'I will do it , said I , as I struck my hand against the table 'I will do it . 
Suddenly a heavy cloud of despondency came over me . 
But should I have fair play ? I must have something to maintain myself with whilst I wrote my tale , and I had but eighteenpence in the world . 
Enough , I would go doggedly to work upon my tale or novel . 
Good but of whom ? Did not Mr. Petulengro mention one Jemmy Abershaw ? Yes . 
Did he not tell me that the life and adventures of Jemmy Abershaw would bring in much money to the writer ? Yes , but I knew nothing of that worthy . 
Moreover , my pride revolted at the idea of being beholden to Mr. Petulengro for the materials of the history . 
No , I would not write the history of Abershaw . 
Both , though bold and extraordinary men , were merely highwaymen . 
I questioned whether I could compose a tale likely to excite any particular interest out of the exploits of a mere robber . 
I want a character for my hero , thought I , something higher than a mere robber some one like like Colonel B . 
On a sudden , however , the proverb of mending old garments with new cloth occurred to me . 
'I am afraid , said I , 'any new adventures which I can invent will not fadge well with the old tale one will but spoil the other . 
I had better have nothing to do with Colonel B , thought I , but boldly and independently sit down and write the life of Joseph Sell . 
This Joseph Sell , dear reader , was a fictitious personage who had just come into my head . 
So I went to bed , but not to sleep . 
During the greater part of the night I lay awake , musing upon the work which I had determined to execute . 
For a long time my brain was dry and unproductive I could form no plan which appeared feasible . 
Scenes and incidents flitted before my mind's eye so plentifully , that I knew not how to dispose of them I was in a regular embarrassment . 
CHAPTER LVI Considerably sobered Power of writing The tempter Hungry talent Work concluded . 
It was a great thing to have formed my plan , and to have arranged the scenes in my head , as I had done on the preceding night . 
The chief thing requisite at present was the mere mechanical act of committing them to paper . 
This I did not find at first so easy as I could wish I wanted mechanical skill but I persevered , and before evening I had written ten pages . 
I partook of some bread and water and before I went to bed that night , I had completed fifteen pages of my life of Joseph Sell . 
On the fourth day the sun shone brightly I arose , and , having breakfasted as usual , I fell to work . 
I likewise occasionally saw double a tempter now seemed to be at work within me . 
I am almost afraid to state how many pages I wrote that day of the life of Joseph Sell . 
From this time I proceeded in a somewhat more leisurely manner but , as I drew nearer and nearer to the completion of my task , dreadful fears and despondencies came over me . 
It will be too late , thought I by the time I have finished the work , the bookseller will have been supplied with a tale or a novel . 
And these thoughts came over my mind so often , that at last , in utter despair , I flung down the pen . 
The next day I brought my work to a conclusion . 
But the task of revision still remained for an hour or two I shrank from it , and remained gazing stupidly at the pile of paper which I had written over . 
I was all but exhausted , and I dreaded , on inspecting the sheets , to find them full of absurdities which I had paid no regard to in the furor of composition . 
But the task , however trying to my nerves , must be got over at last , in a kind of desperation , I entered upon it . 
It was far from an easy one there were , however , fewer errors and absurdities than I had anticipated . 
About twelve o'clock at night I had got over the task of revision . 
'To morrow for the bookseller , said I , as my head sank on the pillow . 
'Oh me ! CHAPTER LVII Nervous look The bookseller's wife The last stake Terms God forbid ! Will you come to tea ? A light heart . 
ON arriving at the bookseller's shop , I cast a nervous look at the window , for the purpose of observing whether the paper had been removed or not . 
'What is your business , young man ? said she to me , after I had made her a polite bow . 
'Well , said the bookseller's wife , 'you may leave it , though I cannot promise you much chance of its being accepted . 
My husband has already had several offered to him however , you may leave it give it me . 
Are you afraid to intrust it to me ? she demanded somewhat hastily , observing that I hesitated . 
'Excuse me , said I , 'but it is all I have to depend upon in the world I am chiefly apprehensive that it will not be read . 
'On that point I can reassure you , said the good lady , smiling , and there was now something sweet in her smile . 
'I give you my word that it shall be read come again to morrow morning at eleven , when , if not approved , it shall be returned to you . 
I returned to my lodging , and forthwith betook myself to bed , notwithstanding the earliness of the hour . 
I felt tolerably tranquil I had now cast my last stake , and was prepared to abide by the result . 
I presently sank into a sleep , which endured during the remainder of the day , and the whole of the succeeding night . 
At the appointed hour I repaired to the house of the bookseller the bookseller was in his shop . 
'Ah , said he , as soon as I entered , 'I am glad to see you . 
There was an unwonted heartiness in the bookseller's tones , an unwonted benignity in his face . 
I think I shall venture on sending your book to the press . 
'But , said I , 'we have not yet agreed upon terms . 
'Terms , terms , said the bookseller 'ahem ! well , there is nothing like coming to terms at once . 
I will print the book , and give you half the profit when the edition is sold . 
'That will not do , said I 'I intend shortly to leave London I must have something at once . 
'Ah , I see , said the bookseller , 'in distress frequently the case with authors , especially young ones . 
Well , I don't care if I purchase it of you , but you must be moderate the public are very fastidious , and the speculation may prove a losing one after all . 
Let me see , will five hem he stopped . 
I looked the bookseller in the face there was something peculiar in it . 
'That will not do , said I 'but , as I find we shall not deal , return me my manuscript , that I may carry it to some one else . 
'Well , said I , 'if you will engage to publish either of those two manuscripts , you shall have the present one for five pounds . 
'No , said I , 'ten pounds will not do pray restore me my manuscript . 
'Stay , said the bookseller , 'my wife is in the next room , I will go and consult her . 
Thereupon he went into his back room , where I heard him conversing with his wife in a low tone in about ten minutes he returned . 
'Young gentleman , said he , 'perhaps you will take tea with us this evening , when we will talk further over the matter . 
That evening I went and took tea with the bookseller and his wife , both of whom , particularly the latter , overwhelmed me with civility . 
The subject of terms was again brought forward . 
Before I departed , I received the twenty pounds , and departed with a light heart to my lodgings . 
Reader , amidst the difficulties and dangers of this life , should you ever be tempted to despair , call to mind these latter chapters of the life of Lavengro . 
There are few positions , however difficult , from which dogged resolution and perseverance may not liberate you . 
CHAPTER LVIII Indisposition A resolution Poor equivalents The piece of gold Flashing eyes How beautiful Bon jour , Monsieur . 
I would fain have pursued the career of original authorship which had just opened itself to me , and have written other tales of adventure . 
similar to the one I had brought him , provided my terms were moderate and the bookseller's wife , by her complimentary language , had given me yet more encouragement . 
I felt that , were I to remain where I was , I should die , or become a confirmed valetudinarian . 
I would go forth and wander in any direction but that of the old town . 
As it was my intention to travel on foot , with a bundle and a stick , I despatched my trunk containing some few clothes and books to the old town . 
My preparations were soon made in about three days I was in readiness to start . 
Before departing , however , I bethought me of my old friend the apple woman of London Bridge . 
Apprehensive that she might be labouring under the difficulties of poverty , I sent her a piece of gold by the hands of a young maiden in the house in which I lived . 
The latter punctually executed her commission , but brought me back the piece of gold . 
The old woman would not take it she did not want it , she said . 
As I was not going home , I determined to take my departure in the direction the very opposite to home . 
The Jehu who had accomplished this feat was Francis Ardry . 
A small beautiful female , with flashing eyes , dressed in the extremity of fashion , sat beside him . 
'Holloa , friend , said Francis Ardry , 'whither bound ? 'I do not know , said I 'all I can say is , that I am about to leave London . 
'And the means ? said Francis Ardry . 
'I have them , said I , with a cheerful smile . 
'Qui est celui ci ? demanded the small female , impatiently . 
'C'est mon ami le plus intime so you were about to leave London , without telling me a word , said Francis Ardry , somewhat angrily . 
'I intended to have written to you , said I 'what a splendid mare that is . 
'Is she not ? said Francis Ardry , who was holding in the mare with difficulty 'she cost a hundred guineas . 
'Qu'est ce qu'il dit ? demanded his companion . 
'Il dit que le jument est bien beau . 
'Qu'est ce qu'il dit ? I said the lady again . 
'Il dit que tout l'equipage est en assez bon gout . 
'Allons , c'est un ours , said the lady 'le cheval meme en a peur , added she , as the mare reared up on high . 
'Can you find nothing else to admire but the mare and the equipage ? said Francis Ardry , reproachfully , after he had with some difficulty brought the mare to order . 
Lifting my hand , in which I held my stick , I took off my hat . 
'How beautiful ! said I , looking the lady full in the face . 
'Comment ? said the lady , inquiringly . 
'Il dit que vous etes belle comme un ange , said Francis Ardry , emphatically . 
Est ce bien ainsi que vous traitez vos amis ? said she passionately , as Francis Ardry lifted up his whip . 
CHAPTER LIX The milestone The meditation Want to get up ? The off hand leader Sixteen shillings The near hand wheeler All right . 
I now slackened my pace , which had hitherto been great . 
'Want to get up ? sounded a voice , in the true coachman like tone half querulous , half authoritative . 
'Come , we can't be staying here all night , said the voice , more sharply than before . 
'No , no , keep behind the box ain't for the like of you , said he , as he drove off 'the box is for lords , or gentlemen at least . 
'These seem to be fine horses , said I. The coachman made no answer . 
'Nearly thoroughbred , I continued the coachman drew his breath , with a kind of hissing sound , through his teeth . 
'Come , young fellow , none of your chaff . 
Don't you think , because you ride on my mail , I'm going to talk to you about 'orses . 
I talk to nobody about 'orses except lords . 
'Well , said I , 'I have been called a lord in my time . 
'It must have been by a thimble rigger , then , said the coachman , bending back , and half turning his face round with a broad leer . 
'You have hit the mark wonderfully , said I. 'You coachmen , whatever else you may be , are certainly no fools . 
'We ain't , ain't we ? said the coachman . 
'There you are right and , to show you that you are , I'll now trouble you for your fare . 
If you have been amongst the thimble riggers you must be tolerably well cleared out . 
Where are you going ? to ? I think I have seen you there . 
The fare is sixteen shillings . 
Come , tip us the blunt them that has no money can't ride on my mail . 
I determined , therefore , to pay the fare , with a tacit determination not to mount a coach in future without knowing whither I was going . 
After he had driven about fifty yards , the new coachman fell to whipping one of the horses . 
'D this near hand wheeler , said he , 'the brute has got a corn . 
Presently I fell into a broken kind of slumber . 
In an hour or two I was aroused by a rough voice 'Got to , young man get down if you please . 
I opened my eyes there was a dim and indistinct light , like that which precedes dawn the coach was standing still in something like a street just below me stood the guard . 
'Do you mean to get down , said he , 'or will you keep us here till morning ? other fares want to get up . 
Scarcely knowing what I did , I took my bundle and stick and descended , whilst two people mounted . 
CHAPTER LX The still hour A thrill The wondrous circle The shepherd Heaps and barrows What do you mean ? Milk of the plains Hengist spared it No presents . 
I reached a bridge , beneath which a small stream was running in the direction of the south . 
I stopped and leaned over the parapet , for I have always loved to look upon streams , especially at the still hours . 
'What stream is this , I wonder ? said I , as I looked down from the parapet into the water , which whirled and gurgled below . 
Leaving the bridge , I ascended a gentle acclivity , and presently reached what appeared to be a tract of moory undulating ground . 
It was now tolerably light , but there was a mist or haze abroad which prevented my seeing objects with much precision . 
I felt chill in the damp air of the early morn , and walked rapidly forward . 
In about half an hour I arrived where the road divided into two , at an angle or tongue of dark green sward . 
A strange place this , sir , said he , looking at the stones 'ever here before ? 'Never in body , frequently in mind . 
'Heard of the stones , I suppose no wonder all the people of the plain talk of them . 
'How did they bring them ? 'I don't know . 
'And what did they bring them for ? 'To form a temple , perhaps . 
'What is that ? 'A place to worship God in . 
'A strange place to worship God in . 
'Why ? 'It has no roof . 
'Where ? said the man , looking up . 
'What do you see above you ? 'The sky . 
'What are they ? 'Strange heaps , and barrows , and great walls of earth built on the tops of hills . 
'Do the people of the plain wonder how they came there ? 'They do not . 
'Why ? 'They were raised by hands . 
'And these stones ? 'How did they ever come here ? 'I wonder whether they are here ? said I. 'These stones ? 'Yes . 
'So sure as the world , said the man 'and , as the world , they will stand as long . 
'I wonder whether there is a world . 
'What do you mean ? 'An earth , and sea , moon and stars , sheep and men . 
'Do you doubt it ? 'Sometimes . 
'I never heard it doubted before . 
'It is impossible there should be a world . 
'It ain't possible there shouldn't be a world . 
At this moment a fine ewe , attended by a lamb , rushed into the circle and fondled the knees of the shepherd . 
'I suppose you would not care to have some milk , said the man . 
'Why do you suppose so ? 'Because , so be there be no sheep , no milk , you know and what there ben't is not worth having . 
'You could not have argued better , said I 'that is , supposing you have argued with respect to the milk you may do as you please . 
'Be still , Nanny , said the man and producing a tin vessel from his scrip , he milked the ewe into it . 
'Here is milk of the plains , master , said the man , as he handed the vessel to me . 
'It's a grand place , that , but not like this quite different , and from it you have a sight of the finest spire in the world . 
'I must go to it , said I , and I drank the remainder of the milk 'yonder , you say . 
'Yes , yonder but you cannot get to it in that direction , the river lies between . 
'What river ? 'The Avon . 
'Avon is British , said I. 'Yes , said the man , 'we are all British here . 
'No , we are not , said I. 'What are we then ? 'English . 
'Ain't they one ? 'No . 
'Who were the British ? 'The men who are supposed to have worshipped God in this place , and who raised these stones . 
'Yes , they did , said the shepherd , looking aloft at the transverse stone . 
'I won't have it , said the man . 
'Why not ? 'You talk so prettily about these stones you seem to know all about them . 
'I never receive presents with respect to the stones , I say with yourself , How did they ever come here ? 'How did they ever come here ? said the shepherd . 
CHAPTER LXI The river Arid downs A prospect . 
LEAVING the shepherd , I bent my way in the direction pointed out by him as that in which the most remarkable of the strange remains of which he had spoken lay . 
On arriving at its banks , I found it a beautiful stream , but shallow , with here and there a deep place where the water ran dark and still . 
CHAPTER LXII The hostelry Life uncertain Open countenance The grand point Thank you , master A hard mother Poor dear ! Considerable odds The better country English fashion Landlord looking person . 
On the third day , on a fine sunny afternoon , I departed from the city of the spire . 
As I was passing through one of the suburbs , I saw , all on a sudden , a respectable looking female fall down in a fit several persons hastened to her assistance . 
'She is dead , said one . 
'No , she is not , said another . 
'I am afraid she is , said a third . 
'Life is very uncertain , said a fourth . 
'It is Mrs. , said a fifth 'let us carry her to her own house . 
Not being able to render any assistance , I left the poor female in the hands of her townsfolk , and proceeded on my way . 
'Yes , said I , in reply to his question 'this is one of the ways to London . 
Do you come from far ? 'From , said the man , naming a well known seaport . 
'Is this the direct road to London from that place ? I demanded . 
I am rather tired , master and , if you please , I will sit down beside you . 
To learn , one must live , master and I have lived long enough to learn the grand point of wisdom . 
'What is that ? said I. 'That honesty is the best policy , master . 
'You appear to be a sailor , said I , looking at his dress . 
'I was not bred a sailor , said the man , 'though , when my foot is on the salt water , I can play the part and play it well too . 
I am now from a long voyage . 
'From America ? said I. 'Farther than that , said the man . 
'Have you any objection to tell me ? said I. 'From New South Wales , said the man , looking me full in the face . 
'Dear me , said I. 'Why do you say Dear me ? said the man . 
'It is a very long way off , said I. 'Was that your reason for saying so ? said the man . 
'Not exactly , said I. 'No , said the man , with something of a bitter smile 'it was something else that made you say so you were thinking of the convicts . 
'Well , said I , 'what then you are no convict . 
'How do you know ? 'You do not look like one . 
The truth is that I did the Government a service . 
In fact , the being sent to Sydney was the best thing that ever happened to me in all my life . 
'And you have now returned to your native country . 
Longing to see home brought you from New South Wales . 
'There you are mistaken , said the man . 
No , a wish to see another kind of mother a poor old woman , whose son I am has brought me back . 
She was a poor sinful creature but I loved her , and she loved me . 
I came all the way back merely for the chance of seeing her . 
I learned to write very tolerably over there , by the assistance of the good people I spoke of . 
Poor dear ! what I would give only to know that she is alive . 
'Life is very uncertain , said I. 'That is true , said the man , with a sigh . 
'We are here one moment , and gone the next , I continued . 
'As I passed through the streets of a neighbouring town , I saw a respectable woman drop down , and people said she was dead . 
Who knows but that she too had a son coming to see her from a distance , at that very time ? 'Who knows , indeed ? said the man . 
'Ah , I am afraid my mother is dead . 
Well , God's will be done . 
'However , said I , 'I should not wonder at your finding your mother alive . 
'You wouldn't ? said the man , looking at me wistfully . 
'After all , said I , 'it not unfrequently happens that those who lay the long odds lose . 
Let us hope , however . 
'Go your way , and God go with you I will go mine . 
'I have but one thing to ask you , said the man . 
'What is that ? I inquired . 
'That you would drink with me before we part you have done me so much good . 
'How should we drink ? said I 'we are on the top of a hill where there is nothing to drink . 
'But there is a village below , said the man 'do let us drink before we part . 
'I have been through that village already , said I , 'and I do not like turning back . 
I am by no means certain that , under the same circumstances , the judge would be one whit better than the convict . 
Come along ! I will go back to oblige you . 
I have an odd sixpence in my pocket , which I will change that I may drink with you . 
After walking about a dozen miles , I came to a town , where I rested for the night . 
The next morning I set out again in the direction of the north west . 
I continued journeying for four days , my daily journeys varying from twenty to twenty five miles . 
During this time nothing occurred to me worthy of any especial notice . 
The weather was brilliant , and I rapidly improved both in strength and spirits . 
On the fifth day , about two o'clock , I arrived at a small town . 
Feeling hungry , I entered a decent looking inn within a kind of bar I saw a huge , fat , landlord looking person , with a very pretty , smartly dressed maiden . 
'I am hot and dusty , said I , 'and should wish to cool my hands and face . 
'Jenny ! said the huge landlord , with the utmost gravity , 'show the gentleman into number seven , that he may wash his hands and face . 
'By no means , said I , 'I am a person of primitive habits , and there is nothing like the pump in weather like this . 
And , after the lapse of somewhat more than a minute , I called out with a half strangled voice , 'Hold , Jenny ! and Jenny desisted . 
I sat down by a window which looked out upon the dusty street presently in came the handmaid , and commenced laying the table cloth . 
So I sat by the window , sometimes looking out upon the dusty street , and now glancing at certain old fashioned prints which adorned the wall over against me . 
I fell into a kind of doze , from which I was almost instantly awakened by the opening of the door . 
Dinner , thought I and I sat upright in my chair . 
'The weather is very warm , sir , said I. 'Very , said the stranger , laconically , looking at me for the first time . 
'Would you like to see the newspaper ? said I , taking up one which lay upon the window seat . 
'I never read newspapers , said the stranger , 'nor , indeed , Whatever it might be that he had intended to say he left unfinished . 
Suddenly he walked to the mantelpiece at the farther end of the room , before which he placed himself with his back towards me . 
'Have you come far ? said he , suddenly looking towards me , and speaking in a frank and open manner , which denoted a wish to enter into conversation . 
'You do not seem to be of this place . 
'I come from some distance , said I 'indeed , I am walking for exercise , which I find as necessary to the mind as the body . 
I believe that by exercise people would escape much mental misery . 
'Are you from these parts ? said I at last , with apparent carelessness . 
'From this vicinity , replied the stranger . 
There is nothing like putting a good face upon these matters , thought I to myself and , getting up , I bowed to the unknown . 
A round of beef , at any rate such a round of beef as this , is seldom seen smoking upon the table in these degenerate times . 
Allow me , sir , said I , observing that the stranger was about to speak , 'allow me another remark . 
The stranger changed colour , and gazed upon me in silence . 
'Do , sir , here put in the landlord 'do , sir , accept the young gentleman's invitation . 
The landlord handed the stranger the newspaper , and , bowing , retired with his maid Jenny . 
I helped myself to a portion of the smoking round , and commenced eating with no little appetite . 
The stranger appeared to be soon engrossed with the newspaper . 
We continued thus a considerable time the one reading and the other dining . 
Can't say , though , that I ever trusted much in the ceremony . 
The stranger rose 'No , my young friend , said he , smiling , 'that would scarce be fair . 
As for wine , I can give you some much better than you can get here the landlord is an excellent fellow , but he is an innkeeper after all . 
I looked in the face of the stranger it was a fine intelligent face , with a cast of melancholy in it . 
'Sir , said I , 'I would go with you though you lived four miles instead of two . 
'Who is that gentleman ? said I to the landlord , after I had settled his bill 'I am going home with him . 
'I wish I were going too , said the fat landlord , laying his hand upon his stomach . 
Young gentleman , I congratulate you . 
I FOUND the stranger awaiting me at the door of the inn . 
'Like yourself , I am fond of walking , said he , 'and when any little business calls me to this place I generally come on foot . 
We were soon out of the town , and in a very beautiful country . 
So pleased did I become with my new acquaintance that I soon ceased to pay the slightest attention either to place or distance . 
When everything had been completed to my perfect satisfaction , he told me that if I pleased he would conduct me to the library , where dinner would be speedily served . 
In the library I found a table laid for two my host was not there , having as I supposed not been quite so speedy with his toilet as his guest . 
Statues and busts there were none , and only one painting , a portrait , that of my host , but not him of the mansion . 
And now dinner was removed , and we sat over our wine , and I remember that the wine was good , and fully justified the encomiums of my host of the town . 
It grew dark , and I became uncomfortable . 
'I must presently be going , I at last exclaimed . 
'You would do right , the yew is indeed a venerable tree , but it is not about the yew . 
'The star Jupiter , perhaps ? 'Nor the star Jupiter , nor its moons an observation which escaped you at the inn has made a considerable impression upon me . 
'But I really must take my departure , said I 'the dark hour is at hand . 
And as I uttered these latter words the stranger touched rapidly something which lay near him I forget what it was . 
It was the first action of the kind which I had observed on his part since we sat down to table . 
'You allude to the evil chance , said I 'but it is getting both dark and late . 
It had become very dark suddenly a blaze of sheet lightning illumed the room . 
By the momentary light I distinctly saw my host touch another object upon the table . 
'Will you allow me to ask you a question or two ? said he at last . 
It is other things I quake at I should rather say ideas . 
Without waiting for my reply he began . 
Amidst darkness and gloom , occasionally broken by flashes of lightning , the stranger related to me , as we sat at table in the library , his truly touching history . 
'Before proceeding to relate the events of my life , it will not be amiss to give you some account of my ancestors . 
My grandfather was , indeed , a fortunate man when he died he was followed to the grave by the tears of the poor my father was not . 
My mother loved me with the most passionate fondness , and I was brought up in this house under her own eye I was never sent to school . 
I have not been a fortunate man . 
In less than an hour I had broken the playthings in an attempt to discover what they were made of . 
I passed a sleepless night . 
The next morning I found that the man who brought the hawks had not departed . 
How came my uncle by these hawks ? I anxiously inquired . 
They were sent to him from Norway , master , with another pair . 
And who sent them ? That I don't know , master , but I suppose his honour can tell you . 
How did my uncle become possessed of the pony ? This question I asked him the first time I saw him . 
Oh , he had bought it of a gypsy , that I might learn to ride upon it . 
This was very selfish in me , and I tell the fact with shame . 
I received some desperate contusions , and was taken up for dead it was many months before I perfectly recovered . 
'But it is time for me to come to the touching part of my story . 
My mother became worse , and I was not allowed to enter her apartment , lest by my frantic exclamations of grief I might aggravate her disorder . 
I rested neither day nor night , but roamed about the house like one distracted . 
CHAPTER LXV Maternal anxiety The baronet Little zest Country life Mr. Speaker ! The craving Spirited address An author . 
AFTER a short pause my host resumed his narration . 
A continual dread overshadowed my mind , it was the dread of my mother's death . 
Her constitution had never been strong , and it had been considerably shaken by her last illness this I knew , and this I saw for the eyes of fear are marvellously keen . 
You must consign him to me , said he , and I will introduce him to the world . 
I became moderately dissipated I say moderately , for dissipation had but little zest for me . 
'In this manner four years passed over . 
I have had a letter , said he your mother is very ill . 
I staggered , and touched the nearest object to me nothing was said for two or three minutes , and then my uncle put his lips to my ear and whispered something . 
I remember nothing for a long time for two years I was out of my mind at the end of this time I recovered , or partly so . 
My uncle the baronet was very kind to me he advised me to travel , he offered to go with me . 
I told him he was very kind , but I would rather go by myself . 
So I went abroad , and saw , amongst other things , Rome and the Pyramids . 
By frequent change of scene my mind became not happy , but tolerably tranquil . 
I continued abroad some years , when , becoming tired of travelling , I came home , found my uncle the baronet alive , hearty , and unmarried , as he still is . 
In summer I strolled from one watering place to another and , in order to pass the time , I became very dissipated . 
I have lived thirty five years and upwards without doing anything shall I pass through life in this manner ? Horror ! And then in rapid succession I touched three different objects . 
'I dressed myself and went down , determining to set about something but what was I to do ? there was the difficulty . 
No , I was not formed for Parliament I could do nothing there . 
I tried an infinity of pursuits , botany and geology amongst the rest , but in vain I was fitted for none of them . 
One morning a young nobleman , who had for some time past showed a wish to cultivate my acquaintance , came to me in a considerable hurry . 
Only the other day I attempted to make a speech , but left off suddenly , utterly ashamed , although I was quite alone , of the nonsense I was uttering . 
Good morning to morrow I will breakfast with you . 
In the morning he came again . 
Well , said he , what success ? Very poor , said I but judge for yourself and I put into his hand a manuscript of several pages . 
My friend read it through with considerable attention . 
I shall win my election . 
And in truth he did win his election and it was not only his own but the general opinion that he owed it to the address . 
'But , however that might be , I had , by writing the address , at last discovered what had so long eluded my search what I was able to do . 
This discovery decided my fate from that moment I became an author . 
CHAPTER LXVI Trepidations Subtle principle Perverse imagination Are they mine ? Another book How hard ! Agricultural dinner Incomprehensible actions Inmost bosom Give it up Chance resemblance Rascally newspaper . 
I will not detain you much longer with my history the night is advancing , and the storm appears to be upon the increase . 
My life since the period of my becoming an author may be summed briefly as an almost uninterrupted series of doubts , anxieties , and trepidations . 
I see clearly that it is not good to love anything immoderately in this world , but it has been my misfortune to love immoderately everything on which I have set my heart . 
The winds may be imprisoned Homer says that Odysseus carried certain winds in his ship , confined in leathern bags , but Homer never speaks of confining the affections . 
'I need scarcely tell you that no sooner did I become an author than I gave myself up immoderately to my vocation . 
It became my idol , and , as a necessary consequence , it has proved a source of misery and disquietude to me , instead of pleasure and blessing . 
The public were delighted with it , but what were my feelings ? Anything , alas ! but those of delight . 
Thus , a dead fly was in my phial , poisoning all the pleasure which I should otherwise have derived from the result of my brain sweat . 
How hard ! I would exclaim , looking up to the sky , how hard ! I am like Virgil's sheep , bearing fleeces not for themselves . 
But there is one circumstance to which I cannot help alluding here , as it serves to show what miseries this love of originality must needs bring upon an author . 
I am constantly discovering that , however original I may wish to be , I am continually producing the same things which other people say or write . 
'For some time past I have given up reading almost entirely , owing to the dread which I entertain of lighting upon something similar to what I myself have written . 
I scarcely ever transgress without having almost instant reason to repent . 
'I have now related my history , and have revealed to you the secrets of my inmost bosom . 
I should certainly not have spoken so unreservedly as I have done , had I not discovered in you a kindred spirit . 
Such was the story which my host related to me in the library , amidst the darkness , occasionally broken by flashes of lightning . 
Both of us remained silent for some time after it was concluded . 
'It is a singular story , said I , at last , 'though I confess that I was prepared for some part of it . 
Will you permit me to ask you a question ? 'Certainly , said my host . 
'Did you never speak in public ? said I. 'Never . 
Mr. Platitude Toleration to Dissenters Paradox Sword of St . 
Peter Enemy to humbug High principles False concord The damsel What religion ? Further conversation That would never do ! May you prosper . 
DURING the greater part of that night my slumbers were disturbed by strange dreams . 
Amongst other things , I fancied that I was my host my head appeared to be teeming with wild thoughts and imaginations , out of which I was endeavouring to frame a book . 
And now the book was finished and given to the world , and the world shouted and all eyes were turned upon me , and I shrank from the eyes of the world . 
And , when I got into retired places , I touched various objects in order to baffle the evil chance . 
In short , during the whole night , I was acting over the story which I had heard before I went to bed . 
At about eight o'clock I awoke . 
I finished dressing and left the room , feeling compelled , however , as I left it , to touch the lintel of the door . 
I was presently upon the gravel walk before the house it was indeed a glorious morning . 
'What can possibly have induced you to hang up that portrait in your library ? it is a staring likeness , it is true , but it appears to me a wretched daub . 
'Daub as you call it , said my friend , smiling , 'I would not part with it for the best piece of Rafael . 
My works , as you are aware , are of a serio comic character . 
My neighbours are of opinion that I am a great reader , and so I am , but only of those features my real library is that picture . 
I purchased it of him for five pounds I would not take five thousand for it when you called that picture a daub , you did not see all the poetry of it . 
A shade of dissatisfaction came over the countenance of my host . 
'What does the silly pestilent fellow mean by coming here ? said he , half to himself 'let him come in , said he to the servant . 
The servant went out , and in a moment reappeared , introducing the Reverend Mr. Platitude . 
In company I am occasionally subject to fits of what is generally called absence my mind takes flight and returns to former scenes , or presses forward into the future . 
I have travelled , as you are aware . 
It is only by travelling that one can rub off prejudices I think you will agree with me there . 
I am speaking to a traveller . 
I left behind all my prejudices in Italy . 
The Catholics are at least our fellow Christians . 
I thank Heaven that I am no longer an enemy to Catholic emancipation . 
'Of course you would admit there were such as long as they existed but how would you get rid of them ? 'I would have the Church exert its authority . 
'What do you mean by exerting its authority ? 'I would not have the Church bear the sword in vain . 
'What , the sword of St . 
Peter ? You remember what the founder of the religion which you profess said about the sword , He who striketh with it . 
I think those who have called themselves the Church have had enough of the sword . 
Two can play with the sword , Mr. Platitude . 
Thank God , I left all my Church of England prejudices in Italy . 
Had the Church of England known its true interests , it would long ago have sought a reconciliation with its illustrious mother . 
The Irish would have helped it , so would the French , so would the Portuguese . 
Disunion has always been the bane of the Church . 
Once more I fell into a reverie . 
When I awoke from my reverie the Reverend Mr. Platitude was quitting the apartment . 
'Who is that person ? said I to my entertainer , as the door closed behind him . 
'Who is he ? said my host 'why , the Reverend Mr. Platitude . 
'Does he reside in this neighbourhood ? 'He holds a living about three miles from here his history , as far as I am acquainted with it , is as follows . 
His father was a respectable tanner in the neighbouring town , who , wishing to make his son a gentleman , sent him to college . 
He told his father that he had adopted high principles , and was determined to discountenance everything low and mean advised him to eschew trade , and to purchase him a living . 
The old man retired from business , purchased his son a living , and shortly after died , leaving him what remained of his fortune . 
Wishing to shine in the pulpit , he now preached high sermons , as he called them , interspersed with scraps of learning . 
Mr. Platitude was filled with wrath , and abused Dissenters in most unmeasured terms . 
Coming in contact with some of the preachers at a public meeting , he was rash enough to enter into argument with them . 
These illiterate boors , as he had supposed them , caught him at once in a false concord , and Mr. Platitude had to slink home overwhelmed with shame . 
To avenge himself he applied to the ecclesiastical court , but was told that the Dissenters could not be put down by the present ecclesiastical law . 
He found the Church of England , to use his own expression , a poor , powerless , restricted Church . 
He forthwith gave out that he had left behind him all his Church of England prejudices , and , as a proof thereof , spoke against sacerdotal wedlock and the toleration of schismatics . 
This being has some powers of conversation and some learning , but carries the countenance of an arch villain Platitude is evidently his tool . 
'Of what religion are you ? said I to my host . 
When , however , I have completed this plaguy work on which I am engaged , I hope to be able to devote more attention to them . 
'Whither are you going ? 'I do not know . 
'Stay here , then you shall be welcome as many days , months , and years as you please to stay . 
'Do you think I would hang upon another man ? No , not if he were Emperor of all the Chinas . 
I will now make my preparations , and then bid you farewell . 
I retired to my apartment and collected the handful of things which I carried with me on my travels . 
'I will walk a little way with you , said my friend on my return . 
He walked with me to the park gate neither of us said anything by the way . 
When we had come upon the road , I said , 'Farewell now I will not permit you to give yourself any further trouble on my account . 
Receive my best thanks for your kindness before we part , however , I should wish to ask you a question . 
Do you think you shall ever grow tired of authorship ? 'I have my fears , said my friend , advancing his hand to one of the iron bars of the gate . 
'Don't touch , said I , 'it is a bad habit . 
'That would never do ! said my host 'I know myself too well to think of applying for assistance to any one . 
Were I to become a parliamentary orator , I should wish to be an original one , even if not above mediocrity . 
I could not bear the thought of such a thing . 
'Farewell , said I , 'and may you prosper . 
I have nothing more to say . 
At the distance of twenty yards I turned round suddenly my friend was just withdrawing his finger from the bar of the gate . 
'He has been touching , said I , as I proceeded on my way 'I wonder what was the evil chance he wished to baffle . 
I now continued my journey as before , towards the north . 
The weather , though beautiful , was much cooler than it had been for some time past I walked at a great rate , with a springing and elastic step . 
The children had none of the vivacity so general at their age . 
A more disconsolate family I had never seen a mug , which , when filled , might contain half a pint , stood empty before them a very disconsolate party indeed . 
'To taste your ale , said I. 'How much ? said the woman , stretching out her hand towards the empty mug upon the table . 
'The largest measure full in your house , said I , putting back her hand gently . 
'This is not the season for half pint mugs . 
'As you will , young man , said the landlady and presently brought in an earthen pitcher which might contain about three pints , and which foamed and frothed withal . 
'Will this pay for it ? said I , putting down sixpence . 
'I have to return you a penny , said the landlady , putting her hand into her pocket . 
'I want no change , said I , flourishing my hand with an air . 
'As you please , young gentleman , said the landlady , and then , making a kind of curtsey , she again retired to the side apartment . 
'Here is your health , sir , said I to the grimy looking man , as I raised the pitcher to my lips . 
I took a draught of the ale , which I found excellent 'Won't you drink ? said I , holding the pitcher to the tinker . 
The man again lifted up his eyes , looked at me , and then at the pitcher , and then at me again . 
'You had better mend your draught , said I to the tinker 'it is a sad heart that never rejoices . 
'That's true , said the tinker , and again raising the pitcher to his lips , he mended his draught as I had bidden him , drinking a larger quantity than before . 
'Pass it to your wife , said I. The poor woman took the pitcher from the man's hand before , however , raising it to her lips , she looked at the children . 
The woman wiped her eyes with the corner of her gown , before she raised the pitcher and drank to my health . 
In about five minutes none of the family looked half so disconsolate as before , and the tinker and I were in deep discourse . 
Oh , genial and gladdening is the power of good ale , the true and proper drink of Englishmen . 
'Well , said the tinker , after we had discoursed some time , 'little thought , when I first saw you , that you were of my own trade . 
Nor am I , at least not exactly . 
There is not much difference , 'tis true , between a tinker and a smith . 
You are a whitesmith then ? MYSELF . 
Not I , I'd scorn to be anything so mean no , friend , black's the colour I am a brother of the horse shoe . 
Success to the hammer and tongs . 
Well , I shouldn't have thought you had been a blacksmith by your hands . 
I have seen them , however , as black as yours . 
The truth is , I have not worked for many a day . 
Where did you serve first ? MYSELF . 
That's a good way off , isn't it ? MYSELF . 
Not very far over those mountains to the left , and the run of salt water that lies behind them , there's Ireland . 
It's a fine thing to be a scholar . 
Not half so fine as to be a tinker . 
How you talk ! MYSELF . 
Nothing but the truth what can be better than to be one's own master ? Now a tinker is his own master , a scholar is not . 
Only conceive him , I say , drudging in such guise from morning till night , without any rational enjoyment but to beat the children . 
What's the matter with you what are you all crying about ? TINKER . 
Give it up ! you must not think of such a thing . 
No , I can't bear to think of it , and yet I must what's to be done ? How hard to be frightened to death , to be driven off the roads . 
Who has driven you off the roads ? TINKER . 
Who ! the Flaming Tinman . 
Who is he ? TINKER . 
The biggest rogue in England , and the cruellest , or he wouldn't have served me as he has done I'll tell you all about it . 
She had a kindness for me , and , notwithstanding her friends were against the match , she married the poor tinker , and came to live with him upon the roads . 
Lord bless you , young man , it was like a fly fighting with an elephant one of those big beasts the show folks carry about . 
I had not a chance with the fellow , he knocked me here , he knocked me there , knocked me into the hedge , and knocked me out again . 
I was at my last shifts , and my poor wife saw it . 
Take another draught of the ale you look frightened , and it will do you good . 
Stout liquor makes stout heart , as the man says in the play . 
'Hold , both of you Jack , Moll . 
I really don't know something horrible , I suppose . 
Take another draught stout liquor TINKER . 
I can't , young man , my heart's too full , and what's more , the pitcher is empty . 
And so he swore you , I suppose , on the Bible , to quit the roads ? TINKER . 
You are right , he did so , the gypsy villain . 
Gypsy ! Is he a gypsy ? TINKER . 
Not exactly what they call a half and half . 
His father was a gypsy , and his mother , like mine , one who walked the roads . 
Is he of the Smiths the Petulengres ? TINKER . 
I say , young man , you know a thing or two one would think , to hear you talk , you had been bred upon the roads . 
I believe he is a Boss , or a at any rate he's a bad one , as I know to my cost . 
And what are you going to do ? TINKER . 
Do ! you may well ask that I don't know what to do . 
My poor wife and I have been talking of that all the morning , over that half pint mug of beer we can't determine on what's to be done . 
All we know is , that we must quit the roads . 
And what do you mean to do with your horse and cart ? TINKER . 
Another question ! What shall we do with our cart and pony ? they are of no use to us now . 
Stay on the roads I will not , both for my oath's sake and my own . 
But why don't you sell your horse and cart ? TINKER . 
I'm half inclined to buy your cart and pony , and your beat too . 
You ! How came you to think of such a thing ? MYSELF . 
Why , like yourself , I hardly know what to do . 
I want a home and work . 
What do you think I could earn at Chester ? TINKER . 
A matter of eleven shillings a week , if anybody would employ you , which I don't think they would with those hands of yours . 
But whether they would or not , if you are of a quarrelsome nature you must not go to Chester you would be in the castle in no time . 
I don't know how to advise you . 
As for selling you my stock , I'd see you farther first , for your own sake . 
Why ! you would get your head knocked off . 
Suppose you were to meet him ? MYSELF . 
Pooh , don't be afraid on my account if I were to meet him I could easily manage him one way or other . 
I know all kinds of strange words and names , and , as I told you before , I sometimes hit people when they put me out . 
A pretty fellow I should be , now , if I were to let him follow his own will . 
If he once sets up on my beat , he's a lost man , his ribs will be stove in , and his head knocked off his shoulders . 
There , you are crying , but you shan't have your will though I won't be the young man's destruction . 
Only on one condition I'll sell you the pony and things as for the beat it's gone , isn't mine sworn away by my own mouth . 
Tell me what's my name if you can't , may I MYSELF . 
Don't swear , it's a bad habit , neither pleasant nor profitable . 
Your name is Slingsby Jack Slingsby . 
There , don't stare , there's nothing in my telling you your name I've been in these parts before , at least not very far from here . 
I never forget anything I hear or see I can't , I wish I could . 
So there's nothing strange in my knowing your name indeed , there's nothing strange in anything , provided you examine it to the bottom . 
The country through which I passed was beautiful and interesting , but solitary few habitations appeared . 
I followed him I knew not whither , but , from subsequent observation , have reason to suppose that our course was in a north west direction . 
At length night came upon us , and a cold wind sprang up , which was succeeded by a drizzling rain . 
To tell the truth , I was not very sorry to have an excuse to pass the night once more beneath a roof . 
I heard , occasionally , the bark of dogs but the sound appeared to come from an immense distance . 
We were in a dark lane so dark that it was impossible for me to see my own hand . 
Apprehensive that some accident might occur , I ran forward , and , seizing the pony by the bridle , drew him as near as I could to the hedge . 
I heard a voice cry , 'Push on , this is a desperate robbing place , never mind the dark' and the hoofs came on quicker than before . 
'Lord have mercy upon us ! what's the matter ? exclaimed a voice . 
'Spare my life , cried another voice , apparently from the ground 'only spare my life , and take all I have . 
'Where are you , Master Wise ? cried the other voice . 
'Help ! here , Master Bat , cried the voice from the ground 'help me up or I shall be murdered . 
'Why , what's the matter ? said Bat . 
'Some one has knocked me down , and is robbing me , said the voice from the ground . 
'Have they not done robbing you yet ? said I 'when they have finished let me know , and I will come and help you . 
'Who is that ? said the voice 'pray come and help me , and do me no mischief . 
'You were saying that some one was robbing you , said I 'don't think I shall come till he is gone away . 
'Then you ben't he ? said the voice . 
'Aren't you robbed ? said I. 'Can't say I be , said the voice 'not yet at any rate but who are you ? I don't know you . 
'A traveller whom you and your partner were going to run over in this dark lane you almost frightened me out of my senses . 
'Frightened ! said the voice , in a louder tone 'frightened ! oh ! and thereupon I heard somebody getting upon his legs . 
This accomplished , the individual proceeded to attend to his horse , and with a little difficulty raised him upon his legs also . 
'Aren't you hurt ? said I. 'Hurt ! said the voice 'not I don't think it , whatever the horse may be . 
'You are , are you ? Take that . 
Stopping at some distance , he loaded me with abuse , and then , continuing his way at a rapid trot , I heard no more of him . 
Well , I am not much hurt , so it is of little consequence . 
I lay half reclining in the cart , holding the reins lazily , and allowing the animal to go just where he pleased , often wondering where he would conduct me . 
At length I felt drowsy , and my head sank upon my breast I soon aroused myself , but it was only to doze again this occurred several times . 
I did not find the jolting of the cart at all disagreeable , on the contrary , it had quite a somniferous effect upon me . 
I got up and left my tent the morning was yet more bright than that of the preceding day . 
My curiosity satisfied , I returned to my little encampment , and on the way beheld a small footpath on the left winding through the bushes , which had before escaped my observation . 
There was likewise a small quantity of block tin , sheet tin , and solder . 
I PASSED the greater part of the day in endeavouring to teach myself the mysteries of my new profession . 
I cannot say that I was very successful , but the time passed agreeably , and was therefore not ill spent . 
Towards evening I flung my work aside , took some refreshment , and afterwards a walk . 
This time I turned up the small footpath of which I have already spoken . 
Night came on , and a beautiful night it was up rose the moon , and innumerable stars decked the firmament of heaven . 
I sat on the shaft , my eyes turned upwards . 
Two or three days passed by in much the same manner as the first . 
During the morning I worked upon my kettles , and employed the remaining part of the day as I best could . 
I soon remarked that the tones were exceedingly sharp and shrill , with yet something of childhood in them . 
'The Rommany chi And the Rommany chal Shall jaw tasaulor To drab the bawlor , And dook the gry Of the farming rye . 
A very pretty song , thought I , falling again hard to work upon my kettle a very pretty song , which bodes the farmers much good . 
Let them look to their cattle . 
'All alone here , brother ? said a voice close by me , in sharp but not disagreeable tones . 
I made no answer , but continued my work , click , click , with the gravity which became one of my profession . 
I allowed at least half a minute to elapse before I even lifted up my eyes . 
If I called you brother , it was because I didn't know what else to call you . 
Marry , come up , brother , I should be sorry to have you for a brother . 
I was asking you what you would have for that kettle . 
'I will take no less for it , young gentlewoman it has caused me a world of trouble . 
'I never saw a worse mended kettle . 
I say , brother , your hair is white . 
Tis nature your hair is black nature , nothing but nature . 
'I am young , brother my hair is black that's nature you are young , brother your hair is white that's not nature . 
'Sit down on the grass , and tell me all about it , sister do , to oblige me , pretty sister . 
'Hey , brother , you don't speak as you did you don't speak like a gorgio , you speak like one of us , you call me sister . 
'As you call me brother I am not an uncivil person after all , sister . 
'I don't say it , I wish to know . 
I say , brother , I think I should like to have the kekaubi . 
'Parraco tute , that is , I thank you , brother the rikkeni kekaubi is now mine . 
O , rare ! I thank you kindly , brother . 
Good bye , brother , I must be going . 
At length she came towards me , and stared me full in the face . 
'Gray , tall , and talks Rommany , said she to herself . 
In her countenance there was an expression which I had not seen before an expression which struck me as being composed of fear , curiosity , and the deepest hate . 
It was momentary , however , and was succeeded by one smiling , frank , and open . 
'Good bye , tall brother , said the girl , as she departed , singing 'The Rommany chi , etc . 
'There's something about that girl that I don't understand , said I to myself 'something mysterious . 
I turned my eyes in that direction , but saw nothing . 
THE next day , at an early hour , I harnessed my little pony , and , putting my things in my cart , I went on my projected stroll . 
I found that the name of Slingsby was well known in these parts . 
'If you are a friend of Slingsby you must be an honest lad , said an ancient crone 'you shall never want for work whilst I can give it you . 
Here , take my kettle , the bottom came out this morning , and lend me that of yours till you bring it back . 
I'm not afraid to trust you not I. Don't hurry yourself , young man , if you don't come back for a fortnight I shan't have the worse opinion of you . 
Nothing occurred on the following day which requires any particular notice , nor indeed on the one succeeding that . 
The gypsy girl was standing just opposite to me , with her eyes fixed upon my countenance a singular kind of little dog stood beside her . 
'But there are two cakes . 
'Yes , brother , two cakes , both for you my grandbebee meant them both for you but list , brother , I will have one of them for bringing them . 
'Which shall I have , brother ? said the gypsy girl . 
'No , brother , no , the cakes are yours , not mine . 
It is for you to say . 
'Well , then , give me the one nearest you , and take the other . 
'Pretty brother , gray haired brother here , brother , said she , 'here is your cake , this other is mine . 
'See , brother , I do now , brother , eat , pretty brother , gray haired brother . 
'The children in the wood had nothing to eat . 
'Yes , they had hips and haws we have better . 
'See , sister , I do , and I ate a piece of the cake . 
'Well , brother , how do you like it ? said the girl , looking fixedly at me . 
'It is very rich and sweet , and yet there is something strange about it I don't think I shall eat any more . 
'Fie , brother , fie , to find fault with the poor person's cake see , I have nearly eaten mine . 
'That's a pretty little dog . 
'Is it not , brother ? that's my juggal , my little sister , as I call her . 
'Come here , juggal , said I to the animal . 
'What do you want with my juggal ? said the girl . 
'Only to give her a piece of cake , said I , offering the dog a piece which I had just broken off . 
'What do you mean ? said the girl , snatching the dog away 'my grandbebee's cake is not for dogs . 
'Why , I just now saw you give the animal a piece of yours . 
'You lie , brother , you saw no such thing but I see how it is , you wish to affront the poor person's child . 
I shall go to my house . 
'Keep still , and don't be angry see , I have eaten the piece which I offered the dog . 
It is a sweet cake after all . 
'Isn't it , brother ? I am glad you like it . 
Offence , brother , no offence at all ! I am so glad you like my grandbebee's cake , but she will be wanting me at home . 
Eat one piece more of grandbebee's cake , and I will go . 
'I am not hungry , I will put the rest by . 
'One piece more before I go , handsome brother , gray haired brother . 
'I will not eat any more , I have already eaten more than I wished to oblige you if you must go , good day to you . 
After all it was a poor person's cake , a Rommany manricli , and all you gorgios are somewhat gorgious . 
Farewell , brother , pretty brother , gray haired brother . 
I then thought I would sleep again , and once more reclined against the tree , and slumbered for some little time , but my sleep was more agitated than before . 
'I must shake off these feelings , said I , 'and get upon my legs . 
What can be the matter with me ? thought I but I suppose I have made myself ill by drinking cold water . 
I got up and made the best of my way back to my tent before I reached it the qualm had seized me again , and I was deadly sick . 
I revived just as a heavy blow sounded upon the canvas of the tent . 
'He does not move , bebee , said a voice which I knew . 
I had , however , recognised her voice it was that of my old acquaintance , Mrs. Herne . 
'Ho , ho , sir ! said she , 'here you are . 
Sit down on your ham , child , at the door , I shall do the same . 
There you have seen me before , sir , have you not ? 'The gentleman makes no answer , bebee perhaps he does not know you . 
'I have known him of old , Leonora , said Mrs. Herne 'and , to tell you the truth , though I spoke to him just now , I expected no answer . 
'It's a way he has , bebee , I suppose ? 'Yes , child , it's a way he has . 
'Take off your bonnet , bebee , perhaps he cannot see your face . 
'Though the one was not quite so gray , nor the other so wrinkled . 
'How came they so , bebee ? 'All along of this gorgio , child . 
'The gentleman in the house , you mean , bebee ? 'Yes , child , the gentleman in the house . 
God grant that I may preserve my temper . 
Do you know , sir , my name ? My name is Herne , which signifies a hairy individual , though neither gray haired nor wrinkled . 
It is not the nature of the Hernes to be gray or wrinkled , even when they are old , and I am not old . 
'How old are you , bebee ? 'Sixty five years , child an inconsiderable number . 
My mother was a hundred and one a considerable age when she died , yet she had not one gray hair , and not more than six wrinkles an inconsiderable number . 
'She had no griefs , bebee ? 'Plenty , child , but not like mine . 
'Not quite so hard to bear , bebee ? 'No , child my head wanders when I think of them . 
When I say right Romanly , I mean that they kept to themselves , and were not much given to blabbing about their private matters in promiscuous company . 
Hold , said I , I for one will never consent to such foolishness . 
'That was right , bebee , I think I should have done the same . 
Don't , says I says she , I should like for once in my life to be courtesied to as a Christian gentlewoman . 
'Very foolish of her , bebee . 
Answers the child Leonora , Take comfort , bebee I hate the gorgios as much as you do . 
'And I say so again , bebee , as much or more . 
'Time flows on , I engage in many matters , in most miscarry . 
Am sent to prison says I to myself , I am become foolish . 
Answers to me the child , I wish I could set eyes upon him , bebee . 
'I did so , bebee go on . 
How shall I know him , bebee ? says the child . 
Young and gray , tall , and speaks Romanly . 
Runs to me the child , and says , I've found him , bebee . 
Where , child ? says I. Come with me , bebee , says the child . 
That's he , says I , as I looked at my gentleman through the hedge . 
'Ha , ha ! bebee , and here he lies , poisoned like a hog . 
'You have taken drows , sir , said Mrs. Herne 'do you hear , sir ? drows tip him a stave , child , of the song of poison . 
Tip it him Romanly , child . 
'He has heard it Romanly already , bebee 'twas by that I found him out , as I told you . 
'Halloo , sir , are you sleeping ? you have taken drows the gentleman makes no answer . 
'That's his way , child , to day a tinker , to morrow something else and as for being drabbed , I don't know what to say about it . 
'Not drabbed ! what do you mean , bebee ? but look there , bebee ha , ha , look at the gentleman's motions . 
'He is sick , child , sure enough . 
'Nonsense , bebee ! Look at his motions , he's drabbed , spite of dukkerin . 
'Don't say so , child he's sick , 'tis true , but don't laugh at dukkerin , only folks do that that know no better . 
I , for one , will never laugh at the dukkerin dook . 
Sick again I wish he was gone . 
'He'll soon be gone , bebee let's leave him . 
He's as good as gone look there , he's dead . 
'No , he's not , he'll get up I feel it can't we hasten him ? 'Hasten him ! yes , to be sure set the dog upon him . 
Here , juggal , look in there , my dog . 
The dog made its appearance at the door of the tent , and began to bark and tear up the ground . 
'At him , juggal , at him he wished to poison , to drab you . 
Halloo ! The dog barked violently , and seemed about to spring at my face , but retreated . 
'The dog won't fly at him , child he flashed at the dog with his eye , and scared him . 
'Nonsense , bebee ! you make me angry how should he get up ? 'The dook tells me so , and , what's more , I had a dream . 
'You are going mad , bebee if you want to hasten him , take your stick and poke him in the eye . 
'That will be of no use , child , the dukkerin tells me so but I will try what I can do . 
'That's right , bebee , you struck his face now once more , and let it be in the eye . 
Stay , what's that ? get up , bebee . 
'What's the matter , child ? 'Some one is coming , come away . 
'Let me make sure of him , child he'll be up yet . 
And thereupon Mrs. Herne , rising , leaned forward into the tent , and , supporting herself against the pole , took aim in the direction of the farther end . 
'Here's a pretty affair , bebee , screamed the girl . 
'He'll get up , yet , said Mrs. Herne , from beneath the canvas . 
'Get up ! get up yourself where are you ? where is your Here , there , bebee , here's the door there , make haste , they are coming . 
'He'll get up yet , said Mrs. Herne , recovering her breath 'the dock tells me so . 
'Never mind him or the dook he is drabbed come away , or we shall be grabbed both of us . 
'One more blow , I know where his head lies . 
'You are mad , bebee leave the fellow gorgio avella . 
And thereupon the females hurried away . 
A vehicle of some kind was evidently drawing nigh in a little time it came alongside of the place where lay the fallen tent , and stopped suddenly . 
There was a silence for a moment , and then a parley ensued between two voices , one of which was that of a woman . 
It was not in English , but in a deep guttural tongue . 
'Peth yw hono sydd yn gorwedd yna ar y ddaear ? said a masculine voice . 
'Yn wirionedd I do not know what it can be , said the female voice , in the same tongue . 
It is a tent , Winifred , and see , here is a boy beneath it . 
Merciful father ! what a face . 
I will kneel down' and he flung himself on the ground , and placed his ear close to my mouth . 
'Now speak if you can . 
The oil ! Winifred , the oil ! CHAPTER LXXII Desired effect The three oaks Winifred Things of time With God's will The preacher Creature comforts Croesaw Welsh and English Mayor of Chester . 
At the end of that period the man said that with the blessing of God he would answer for my life . 
Shortly , however , after descending a declivity , we turned into a lane , at the entrance of which was a gate . 
We are about to pass the night here . 
I suppose you will have no objection to do the same ? Indeed , I do not see what else you could do under present circumstances . 
Whilst thus engaged , I felt myself touched on the shoulder , and , looking round , perceived the woman , whom the stranger called Winifred , standing close to me . 
She held a straw bonnet in her hand . 
'I am glad to see thee moving about , young man , said she , in a soft , placid tone 'I could scarcely have expected it . 
Thou must be wondrous strong many , after what thou hast suffered , would not have stood on their feet for weeks and months . 
The woman was silent for some moments , and then said , 'I scarcely know in what spirit thy words are uttered . 
'And to night , also , with God's will , provided you be so disposed . 
Let those of your family come hither . 
'They will be hither presently , said Mary , 'for knowing that thou art arrived , they will , of course , come and bid thee welcome . 
And scarcely had she spoke , when I beheld a party of people descending the moonlit side of the hill . 
They soon arrived at the place where we were they might amount in all to twelve individuals . 
One after another they all shook Peter by the hand , men and women , boys and girls , and expressed their joy at seeing him . 
After which he said , 'Now , friends , if you please , I will speak a few words to you . 
The girl departed , and the preacher and the two females placed themselves on the ground about the tray . 
That , added he , with a smile , 'is Welsh for welcome . 
The fare upon the tray was of the simplest description , consisting of bread , cheese , milk , and curds . 
My two friends partook with a good appetite . 
'Mary , said the preacher , addressing himself to the woman of the house , 'every time I come to visit thee , I find thee less inclined to speak Welsh . 
Your husband is an excellent person , Mary , but I am afraid he is somewhat prejudiced . 
He was a powerful chieftain , and there was an old feud between him and the men of Chester . 
They then began to talk on religious matters . 
At length Mary departed to her abode , and the preacher and his wife retired to their tilted cart . 
'Poor fellow , he seems to be almost brutally ignorant , said Peter , addressing his wife in their native language , after they had bidden me farewell for the night . 
'I am afraid he is , said Winifred , 'yet my heart warms to the poor lad , he seems so forlorn . 
I SLEPT soundly during that night , partly owing to the influence of the opiate . 
Early in the morning I was awakened by the voices of Peter and his wife , who were singing a morning hymn in their own language . 
Both subsequently prayed long and fervently . 
I lay still till their devotions were completed , and then left my tent . 
'Good morning , said Peter , 'how dost thou feel ? 'Much better , said I , 'than I could have expected . 
'I am glad of it , said Peter . 
'What dust thou intend to do , young man , this day ? said Peter , when we had about half finished breakfast . 
'Do , said I 'as I do other days , what I can . 
'And dost thou pass this day as thou dost other days ? said Peter . 
'Why not ? said I 'what is there in this day different from the rest ? it seems to be of the same colour as yesterday . 
'And how did that happen ? said Winifred , with a sigh . 
'To tell you the truth , said I , 'I live very much alone , and pay very little heed to the passing of time . 
'And yet of what infinite importance is time , said Winifred . 
'Art thou not aware that every year brings thee nearer to thy end ? 'I do not think , said I , 'that I am so near my end as I was yesterday . 
'Who is Mr. Petulengro ? said Peter , interrupting his wife , as she was about to speak . 
'Master of the horse shoe , said I 'and , according to his own account , king of Egypt . 
'I understand , said Peter , 'head of some family of wandering Egyptians they are a race utterly godless . 
Art thou of them ? but no , thou art not , thou hast not their yellow blood . 
I suppose thou belongest to the family of wandering artisans called . 
I do not like you the worse for belonging to them . 
A mighty speaker of old sprang up from amidst that family . 
'No , said I , 'I will not go and hear . 
'I belong to the church , said I , 'and not to the congregations . 
'Oh ! the pride of that church , said Peter , addressing his wife in their own tongue , 'exemplified even in the lowest and most ignorant of its members . 
Then thou , doubtless , meanest to go to church , said Peter , again addressing me 'there is a church on the other side of that wooded hill . 
'No , said I , 'I do not mean to go to church . 
'May I ask thee wherefore ? said Peter . 
'Because , said I , 'I prefer remaining beneath the shade of these trees , listening to the sound of the leaves and the tinkling of the waters . 
'Then thou intendest to remain here ? said Peter , looking fixedly at me . 
'And who gave it thee ? said Peter . 
'An enemy of mine , I replied . 
'Who is thy enemy ? 'An Egyptian sorceress and poison monger . 
'Thy enemy is a female . 
I fear thou hadst given her cause to hate thee of what did she complain ? 'That I had stolen the tongue out of her head . 
'I do not understand thee is she young ? 'About sixty five . 
'Thou didst call her just now by hard names , young man , said she 'I trust thou dost bear no malice against her . 
'No , said I , 'I bear no malice against her . 
I consider this poisoning as an accident of the roads one of those to which those who travel are occasionally subject . 
I have no doubt that , with the blessing of God , and a little of thy exhortation , he will turn out a true Christian before he leaveth us . 
Again the family which I had seen the night before descended the hill from their abode . 
They were now dressed in their Sunday's best . 
The master of the house led the way . 
They presently joined us , when a quiet sober greeting ensued on each side . 
As I gazed on their departing forms , I felt almost inclined to follow them to their place of worship . 
I did not stir , however , but remained leaning against my oak with my hands behind me . 
And after a time I sat me down at the foot of the oak with my face turned towards the water , and , folding my hands , I fell into deep meditation . 
I thought on the early Sabbaths of my life , and the manner in which I was wont to pass them . 
I thought of the old church at pretty D , the dignified rector , and yet more dignified clerk . 
I though of England's grand Liturgy , and Tate and Brady's sonorous minstrelsy . 
I thought of the Holy Book , portions of which I was in the habit of reading between service . 
And how glad I was when I had got over the Sabbath day without having done anything to profane it . 
And how soundly I slept on the Sabbath night after the toil of being very good throughout the day . 
I was not wont of yore to appear thus on the Sabbath day . 
Forthwith I started up , and said to myself , I should like to bathe and cleanse myself from the squalor produced by my late hard life and by Mrs. Herne's drow . 
I wonder if there is any harm in bathing on the Sabbath day . 
I will ask Winifred when she comes home in the meantime I will bathe , provided I can find a fitting place . 
Having put on my clothes , I returned by the way I had come to my vehicle beneath the oak tree . 
On the right was seated a young woman with a book in her hand , the same who had brought the tray to my friends and myself . 
'Good day , said I , 'pretty damsel , sitting in the farm porch . 
'Good day , said the girl , looking at me for a moment , and then fixing her eyes on her book . 
'That's a nice book you are reading , said I. The girl looked at me with surprise . 
'How do you know what book it is ? said she . 
'How do I know never mind but a nice book it is no love , no fortune telling in it . 
The girl looked at me half offended . 
'Fortune telling ! said she , 'I should think not . 
But you know nothing about it' and she bent her head once more over the book . 
'I tell you what , young person , said I , 'I know all about that book what will you wager that I do not ? 'I never wager , said the girl . 
'Shall I tell you the name of it , said I , 'O daughter of the dairy ? The girl half started . 
'I should never have thought , said she , half timidly , 'that you could have guessed it . 
'I did not guess it , said I , 'I knew it and meet and proper it is that you should read it . 
'Why so ? said the girl . 
'Can the daughter of the dairy read a more fitting book than the DAIRYMAN'S DAUGHTER ? 'Where do you come from ? said the girl . 
'The sea is a wide gulf , said I , 'and frequently separates hearts . 
'Why are you alone here ? said I. 'I take my turn with the rest , said the girl , 'to keep at home on Sunday . 
'And you are said I. 'The master's niece ! said the girl . 
'And who are they ? said I. 'Do you not know ? said the girl 'you came with them . 
'They found me ill by the way , said I 'and they relieved me I know nothing about them . 
'I thought you knew everything , said the girl . 
'There are two or three things which I do not know , and this is one of them . 
Some people say , indeed , that she is as good a preacher as her husband , though of that matter I can say nothing , having never heard her preach . 
So these two wander over all Wales and the greater part of England , comforting the hearts of the people with their doctrine , and doing all the good they can . 
I once heard the mistress say that Peter had something heavy upon his mind perhaps that is the cause . 
'Hem ! said the girl , 'I was wishing 'What ? to ask me a question ? 'Not exactly but you seem to know everything you mentioned , I think , fortune telling . 
However , I should not be surprised if he were to come back some of these days I would if I were in his place . 
In the meantime be patient , attend to the dairy , and read the DAIRYMAN'S DAUGHTER when you have nothing better to do . 
It was late in the evening when the party of the morning returned . 
The farmer and his family repaired at once to their abode , and my two friends joined me beneath the tree . 
Peter sat down at the foot of the oak , and said nothing . 
Supper was brought by a servant , not the damsel of the porch . 
We sat round the tray , Peter said grace , but scarcely anything else he appeared sad and dejected , his wife looked anxiously upon him . 
I was as silent as my friends after a little time we retired to our separate places of rest . 
About midnight I was awakened by a noise I started up and listened it appeared to me that I heard voices and groans . 
Anon , I heard the voice of Winifred , and never shall I forget the sweetness and gentleness of the tones of her voice in the stillness of that night . 
Now 'pechod Ysprydd Glan , interpreted , is the sin against the Holy Ghost . 
CHAPTER LXXIV The following day Pride Thriving trade Tylwyth Teg Ellis Wyn Sleeping hard Incalculable good Fearful agony The tale . 
PETER and his wife did not proceed on any expedition during the following day . 
The former strolled gloomily about the fields , and the latter passed many hours in the farmhouse . 
It was night , and my two friends were seated beneath the oak they had just completed their frugal supper . 
'I will sit down , said I , 'but I require no supper , for I have eaten where I have been' nothing more particular occurred at the time . 
Next morning the kind pair invited me to share their breakfast . 
'I will not share your breakfast , said I. 'Wherefore not ? said Winifred , anxiously . 
'Because , said I , 'it is not proper that I be beholden to you for meat and drink . 
'But we are beholden to other people , said Winifred . 
'Thou art not fond of receiving favours , then , young man , said Winifred . 
'I am not , said I. 'And of conferring favours ? 'Nothing affords me greater pleasure , said I , 'than to confer favours . 
'What a disposition , said Winifred , holding up her hands 'and this is pride , genuine pride that feeling which the world agrees to call so noble . 
'Thou hast laid in a provision ! said Peter , 'pray let us see it . 
Really , friend , said he , after I had produced it , 'thou must drive a thriving trade here are provisions enough to last three people for several days . 
Here are butter and eggs , here is tea , here is sugar , and there is a flitch . 
I hope thou wilt let us partake of some of thy fare . 
'I should be very happy if you would , said I. 'Doubt not but we shall , said Peter 'Winifred shall have some of thy flitch cooked for dinner . 
In the meantime , sit down , young man , and breakfast at our expense we will dine at thine . 
On the evening of that day , Peter and myself sat alone beneath the oak . 
We fell into conversation Peter was at first melancholy , but he soon became more cheerful , fluent , and entertaining . 
I spoke but little but I observed that sometimes what I said surprised the good Methodist . 
We had been silent some time . 
'Was once , I grant you , said Peter , 'but is so no longer . 
I have travelled for years about England , and never heard them mentioned before the belief in them has died away , and even their name seems to be forgotten . 
If you had said you were a Welshman , I should not have been surprised . 
The Welsh have much to say of the Tylwyth Teg , or fair family , and many believe in them . 
'And do you believe in them ? said I. 'I scarcely know what to say . 
'Do you believe in devils , then ? 'Do I believe in devils , young man ? said Peter , and his frame was shaken as if by convulsions . 
'The BARDD CWSG , said I 'what kind of book is that ? I have never heard of that book before . 
What do you call it the BARDD CWSG ? 'Yes , the BARDD CWSG . 
The angel showed him the course of this world , its pomps and vanities , its cruelty and its pride , its crimes and deceits . 
On another occasion , the angel showed him Death in his nether palace , surrounded by his grisly ministers , and by those who are continually falling victims to his power . 
And , on a third occasion , the state of the condemned in their place of everlasting torment . 
'I would sooner hear your own tale , said I , 'than all the visions of the BARDD CWSG . 
Peter shook , bent his form nearly double , and covered his face with his hands . 
I sat still and motionless , with my eyes fixed upon him . 
Presently Winifred descended the hill , and joined us . 
'What is the matter ? said she , looking at her husband , who still remained in the posture I have described . 
Tears trickled down Winifred's face , I saw them trickling by the moonlight , as she gazed upon the writhing form of her afflicted husband . 
I arose from my seat . 
I was retiring , but Peter sprang up and detained me . 
CHAPTER LXXV Taking a cup Getting to heaven After breakfast Wooden gallery Mechanical habit Reserved and gloomy Last words A long time From the clouds Ray of hope Momentary chill Pleasing anticipation . 
'I WAS born in the heart of North Wales , the son of a respectable farmer , and am the youngest of seven brothers . 
'My father was a member of the Church of England , and was what is generally called a serious man . 
He went to church regularly , and read the Bible every Sunday evening in his moments of leisure he was fond of holding religious discourse both with his family and his neighbours . 
'One autumn afternoon , on a week day , my father sat with one of his neighbours taking a cup of ale by the oak table in our stone kitchen . 
I sat near them , and listened to their discourse . 
I was at that time seven years of age . 
They were talking of religious matters . 
It is a hard matter to get to heaven , said my father . 
Exceedingly so , said the other . 
However , I don't despond none need despair of getting to heaven , save those who have committed the sin against the Holy Ghost . 
Ah ! said my father , thank God I never committed that how awful must be the state of a person who has committed the sin against the Holy Ghost . 
'I lay awake the greater part of the night musing upon what I had heard . 
I kept wondering to myself what must be the state of a person who had committed the sin against the Holy Ghost , and how he must feel . 
I slept in a small room alone , to which I ascended by a wooden stair , open to the sky . 
I have often thought since that it is not a good thing for children to sleep alone . 
My master observed my inattention , and chid me . 
The time came for saying my task , and I had not acquired it . 
'Thus , you see , I had plenty of time allotted me by a gracious and kind God to reflect on what I was about to do . 
Whatever I did was of my own free will , after I had had time to reflect . 
Thus God is justified He had no hand in my destruction , but , on the contrary , He did all that was compatible with justice to prevent it . 
I hasten to the fatal moment . 
Awaking in the night , I determined that nothing should prevent my committing the sin . 
I soon arose , however , and retired to my bed , where , notwithstanding what I had done , I was not slow in falling asleep . 
What was the use of praying ? I thought I had committed the sin against the Holy Ghost . 
'I went to school , but sat stupefied . 
I was again chidden , again beaten , by my master . 
I felt no anger this time , and scarcely heeded the strokes . 
I had once been cheerful , and fond of the society of children of my own age but I was now reserved and gloomy . 
It seemed to me that a gulf separated me from all my fellow creatures . 
I used to look at my brothers and schoolfellows , and think how different I was from them they had not done what I had . 
I seemed , in my own eyes , a lone monstrous being , and yet , strange to say , I felt a kind of pride in being so . 
I likewise began , what I had never done before , to take pleasure in the exercises of the school . 
I made great progress in Welsh and English grammar , and learnt to construe Latin . 
My master no longer chid or beat me , but one day told my father that he had no doubt that one day I should be an honour to Wales . 
'Shortly after this my father fell sick the progress of the disorder was rapid feeling his end approaching , he called his children before him . 
'As he uttered these last words , horror took entire possession of me . 
They might hope to meet my father in heaven , but how different were they from me , they had never committed the unpardonable sin . 
My elder brother carried on the farm for the benefit of my mother and us all . 
In course of time my brothers were put out to various trades . 
'There was one thought about this time which caused me unutterable grief and shame , perhaps more shame than grief . 
It was that my father , who was gone to heaven , and was there daily holding communion with his God , was by this time aware of my crime . 
I imagined him looking down from the clouds upon his wretched son , with a countenance of inexpressible horror . 
'The wretchedness of my state increasing daily , it at last became apparent to the master of the school , who questioned me earnestly and affectionately . 
'So I returned home to my mother and my brother , who received me with the greatest kindness and affection . 
I now determined to devote myself to husbandry , and assist my brother in the business of the farm . 
I was still , however , very much distressed . 
I looked at the earth and looked at the sky , and felt as I had not done for many a year presently a delicious feeling stole over me . 
I was beginning to enjoy existence . 
I shall never forget that hour . 
'A change , an entire change , seemed to have come over me . 
I was no longer gloomy and despairing , but gay and happy . 
My slumbers were light and easy not disturbed , as before , by frightful dreams . 
'At church I was constant , and when there listened with deepest attention to every word which proceeded from the mouth of the minister . 
In a little time it appeared to me that I had become a good , very good , young man . 
At times the recollection of the sin would return , and I would feel a momentary chill but the thought quickly vanished , and I again felt happy and secure . 
'One Sunday morning , after I had said my prayers , I felt particularly joyous . 
I went to church , and was as usual attentive . 
The subject of the sermon was on the duty of searching the Scriptures all I knew of them was from the liturgy . 
I now , however , determined to read them , and perfect the good work which I had begun . 
My father's Bible was upon the shelf , and on that evening I took it with me to my chamber . 
I placed it on the table , and sat down . 
My heart was filled with pleasing anticipation . 
Here Peter was seized with convulsive tremors . 
I got up , and went away . 
Returning in about a quarter of an hour , I found him more calm he motioned me to sit down and , after a short pause , continued his narration . 
'WHERE was I , young man ? Oh , I remember , at the fatal passage which removed all hope . 
I will not dwell on what I felt . 
I liked the last description of people least of all I could not abide their yellow faces , or their ceaseless clabber . 
Escaping from these beings , whose countenances and godless discourse brought to my mind the demons of the deep Unknown , I still ran wild through Wales , I know not how long . 
As I was running along at great speed , in the direction of a lofty rock , which beetled over the waters , I suddenly felt myself seized by the coat . 
I strove to tear myself away , but in vain looking round , I perceived a venerable hale old man , who had hold of me . 
Let me go ! said I , fiercely . 
I will not let thee go , said the old man , and now , instead of with one , he grappled me with both hands . 
In whose name dost thou detain me ? said I , scarcely knowing what I said . 
Having caused me to sit down , he stood looking at me for some time , occasionally heaving a sigh . 
I was , indeed , haggard and forlorn . 
Who art thou ? he said at last . 
A miserable man , I replied . 
What makes thee miserable ? said the old man . 
A hideous crime , I replied . 
I can find no rest like Cain I wander here and there . 
The old man turned pale . 
No , said I , I have never taken another's life . 
I have taken no one's goods , said I. Of what art thou guilty , then ? said he . 
Art thou a drunkard ? a profligate ? Alas , no , said I I am neither of these would that I were no worse . 
'Thereupon the old man looked steadfastly at me for some time then , after appearing to reflect , he said , Young man , I have a great desire to know your name . 
What matters it to you what is my name ? said I you know nothing of me . 
Perhaps you are mistaken , said the old man , looking kindly at me but at all events tell me your name . 
I hesitated a moment , and then told him who I was , whereupon he exclaimed with much emotion , I thought so how wonderful are the ways of Providence . 
I have heard of thee , young man , and know thy mother well . 
Only a month ago , when upon a journey , I experienced much kindness from her . 
Despair not , my son . 
I will now kneel down and pray for thee , my son . 
'He knelt down , and prayed long and fervently . 
I remained standing for some time at length I knelt down likewise . 
I scarcely knew what he was saying , but when he concluded I said Amen . 
, who I soon found was a distant relation of the old man , both received me with great kindness , the old man having doubtless previously told them who I was . 
'I stayed several days in the good man's house . 
On the evening of the second day my friend said , I am going to preach , perhaps you will come and hear me . 
Come unto me , all ye that labour and are heavy laden , etc . 
His sermon was long , but I still bear the greater portion of it in my mind . 
This doctrine was new to me I had often been at church , but had never heard it preached before , at least so distinctly . 
There is nothing more foolish and more wicked than despair over weening confidence is not more foolish than despair both are the favourite weapons of the enemy of souls . 
'This discourse gave rise in my mind to no slight perplexity . 
I had read in the Scriptures that he who committeth a certain sin shall never be forgiven , and that there is no hope for him either in this world or the next . 
Did I believe in Christ ? Ay , truly . 
Was I willing to be saved by Christ ? Ay , truly . 
Did I trust in Christ ? I trusted that Christ would save every one but myself . 
I thought of consulting the good man , but I was afraid he would drive away the small glimmer . 
He never pressed me much perhaps he was delicate in probing my mind , as we were then of different persuasions . 
Hence he advised me to seek the advice of some powerful minister in my own church there were many such in it , he said . 
'I stayed several days in the family , during which time I more than once heard my venerable friend preach each time he preached , he exhorted his hearers not to despair . 
The whole family were kind to me his wife frequently discoursed with me , and also the young person to whom I have already alluded . 
It appeared to me that the latter took a peculiar interest in my fate . 
'At last my friend said to me , It is now time thou shouldest return to thy mother and thy brother . 
died and left thee his heir left thee the goodly farm in which he lived . 
I trust , my son , that thou wilt now settle , and be a comfort to me in my old days . 
And I answered , I will , if so please the Lord and I said to myself , God grant that this bequest be a token of the Lord's favour . 
All day long I busied myself with my farm , and thus kept my mind employed . 
At night , however , I felt rather solitary , and I frequently wished for a companion . 
Each night and morning I prayed fervently unto the Lord for His hand had been very heavy upon me , and I feared Him . 
'There was one thing connected with my new abode which gave me considerable uneasiness the want of spiritual instruction . 
There was a church , indeed , close at hand , in which service was occasionally performed , but in so hurried and heartless a manner that I derived little benefit from it . 
It , however , did me good , and I went again , and continued to do so , though I did not become a regular member of the body at that time . 
'I had now the benefit of religious instruction , and also to a certain extent of religious fellowship , for the preacher and various members of his flock frequently came to see me . 
They were honest plain men , not exactly of the description which I wished for , but still good sort of people , and I was glad to see them . 
Once on a time , when some of them were with me , one of them inquired whether I was fervent in prayer . 
Very fervent , said I. And do you read the Scriptures often ? said he . 
No , said I. Why not ? said he . 
Because I am afraid to see there my own condemnation . 
They looked at each other , and said nothing at the time . 
On leaving me , however , they all advised me to read the Scriptures with fervency and prayer . 
'As I had told these honest people , I shrank from searching the Scriptures the remembrance of the fatal passage was still too vivid in my mind to permit me . 
Time passed on , my affairs prospered , and I enjoyed a certain portion of tranquillity . 
Occasionally , when I had nothing else to do , I renewed my studies . 
Many is the book I read , especially in my native language , for I was always fond of my native language , and proud of being a Welshman . 
I likewise read the book of Master Ellis Wyn . 
The latter work possessed a singular fascination for me , on account of its wonderful delineations of the torments of the nether world . 
'But man does not love to be alone indeed , the Scripture says that it is not good for man to be alone . 
I had , indeed , a long struggle as to whether I should make the attempt or not selfishness however prevailed . 
I am afraid that I partly deceived him , perhaps he partly deceived himself he was pleased that I had adopted his profession we are all weak creatures . 
With respect to the young person , she did not ask many questions and I soon found that I had won her heart . 
To be brief , I married her and here she is , the truest wife that ever man had , and the kindest . 
Kind I may well call her , seeing that she shrinks not from me , who so cruelly deceived her , in not telling her at first what I was . 
I married her , friend and brought her home to my little possession , where we passed our time very agreeably . 
Our affairs prospered , our garners were full , and there was coin in our purse . 
I worked in the field Winifred busied herself with the dairy . 
Every night I prayed fervently , and my wife admired my gift of prayer . 
And when I heard her mention the Bible I shook , for I thought of my own condemnation . 
However , I dearly loved my wife , and as she pressed me , I commenced on that very night reading the Bible . 
All went on smoothly for a long time for months and months I did not find the fatal passage , so that I almost thought that I had imagined it . 
'Friend , friend , what shall I say ? I rushed out . 
My wife followed me , asking me what was the matter . 
I could only answer with groans for three days and three nights I did little else than groan . 
Oh the kindness and solicitude of my wife ! What is the matter husband , dear husband ? she was continually saying . 
I became at last more calm . 
My wife still persisted in asking me the cause of my late paroxysm . 
'I thought she would have shrunk from me with horror but she did not her hand , it is true , trembled once or twice but that was all . 
CHAPTER LXXVII Getting late Seven years old Chastening Go forth London Bridge Same eyes Common occurrence Very sleepy . 
'AND so I still say , said Winifred , sobbing . 
'Let us retire to rest , dear husband your fears are groundless . 
'Rest ! said Peter 'there is no rest for the wicked ! 'We are all wicked , said Winifred 'but you are afraid of a shadow . 
'Then you will still maintain , said Peter , 'that I never committed the sin against the Holy Spirit ? 'I will , said Winifred 'you never committed it . 
How should a child seven years old commit a sin like that ? 'Have I not read my own condemnation ? said Peter . 
'Did not the first words which I read in the Holy Scripture condemn me ? He who committeth the sin against the Holy Ghost shall never enter into the kingdom of God . 
'You never committed it , said Winifred . 
'But the words ! the words ! the words ! said Peter . 
'And what sayst thou to the effect which the words produced upon me ? said Peter . 
You had become satisfied with yourself . 
The Lord wished to rouse thee from thy state of carnal security , and therefore directed your eyes to that fearful passage . 
'Does the Lord then carry out His designs by means of guile ? said Peter with a groan . 
'Thou hast not committed it , said Winifred , sobbing yet more violently . 
He is not to blame , if thou art wilfully blind to the truth and wisdom of His ways . 
'I see thou wouldst comfort me , said Peter , 'as thou hast often before attempted to do . 
I would fain ask the young man his opinion . 
'I have not yet heard the whole of your history , said I. 'My story is nearly told , said Peter 'a few words will complete it . 
My wife endeavoured to console and reassure me , using the arguments which you have just heard her use , and many others , but in vain . 
Peace nor comfort came to my breast . 
I was rapidly falling into the depths of despair when one day Winifred said to me , I see thou wilt be lost , if we remain here . 
Thou must go forth , my husband , into the wide world , and to comfort thee I will go with thee . 
And what can I do in the wide world ? said I , despondingly . 
Much , replied Winifred , if you will but exert yourself much good canst thou do with the blessing of God . 
We did all the good we were able , visiting the sick , ministering to the sick , and praying with the sick . 
At last I became celebrated as the possessor of a great gift of prayer . 
And people urged me to preach , and Winifred urged me too , and at last I consented , and I preached . 
I I outcast Peter , became the preacher Peter Williams . 
I , the lost one , attempted to show others the right road . 
And in this way I have gone on for thirteen years , preaching and teaching , visiting the sick , and ministering to them , with Winifred by my side heartening me on . 
'Yes , said I , 'of London Bridge . 
I am indebted for much wisdom to London Bridge it was there that I completed my studies . 
Oh , if men could but look into each other's hearts , what blackness would they find there ! 'That's true , said Peter . 
'What is the name of the book ? 'THE LIFE OF BLESSED MARY FLANDERS . 
'Some popish saint , I suppose , said Peter . 
'As much of a saint , I daresay , said I , 'as most popish ones but you interrupted me . 
One part of your narrative brought the passage which I have quoted into my mind . 
'Truly , said Winifred , 'the young man talks wisely . 
'God bless thee , young man , said Winifred . 
CHAPTER LXXVIII Low and calm Much better Blessed effect No answer Such a sermon . 
BEFORE I sank to rest I heard Winifred and her husband conversing in the place where I had left them both their voices were low and calm . 
I soon fell asleep , and slumbered for some time . 
On my awakening I again heard them conversing , but they were now in their cart still the voices of both were calm . 
I heard no passionate bursts of wild despair on the part of the man . 
Methought I occasionally heard the word Pechod proceeding from the lips of each , but with no particular emphasis . 
I supposed they were talking of the innate sin of both their hearts . 
'I wish that man were happy , said I to myself , 'were it only for his wife's sake , and yet he deserves to be happy for his own . 
The next day Peter was very cheerful , more cheerful than I had ever seen him . 
At breakfast his conversation was animated , and he smiled repeatedly . 
I looked at him with the greatest interest , and the eyes of his wife were almost constantly fixed upon him . 
A shade of gloom would occasionally come over his countenance , but it almost instantly disappeared perhaps it proceeded more from habit than anything else . 
After breakfast he took his Welsh Bible and sat down beneath a tree . 
His eyes were soon fixed intently on the volume now and then he would call his wife , show her some passage , and appeared to consult with her . 
The day passed quickly and comfortably . 
'Your husband seems much better , said I , at evening fall , to Winifred , as we chanced to be alone . 
'He does , said Winifred 'and that on the day of the week when he was wont to appear most melancholy , for tomorrow is the Sabbath . 
He now no longer looks forward to the Sabbath with dread , but appears to reckon on it . 
Truly , it is wonderful . 
Those strange words , drawn out with so much seeming indifference , have produced in my husband the blessed effect which you have observed . 
They have altered the current of his ideas . 
He no longer thinks himself the only being in the world doomed to destruction , the only being capable of committing the never to be forgiven sin . 
The Lord has permitted him to be chastened for a season , but his lamp will only burn the brighter for what he has undergone . 
Sunday came , fine and glorious as the last . 
Again my friends and myself breakfasted together again the good family of the house on the hill above , headed by the respectable master , descended to the meadow . 
Peter and his wife were ready to receive them . 
Again Peter placed himself at the side of the honest farmer , and Winifred by the side of her friend . 
'Wilt thou not come ? said Peter , looking towards me with a face in which there was much emotion . 
'Wilt thou not come ? said Winifred , with a face beaming with kindness . 
But I made no answer , and presently the party moved away , in the same manner in which it had moved on the preceding Sabbath , and I was again left alone . 
The hours of the Sabbath passed slowly away . 
I sat gazing at the sky , the trees , and the water . 
At last I strolled up to the house and sat down in the porch . 
It was empty there was no modest maiden there , as on the preceding Sabbath . 
The damsel of the book had accompanied the rest . 
I had seen her in the procession , and the house appeared quite deserted . 
The owners had probably left it to my custody , so I sat down in the porch , quite alone . 
The hours of the Sabbath passed heavily away . 
At last evening came , and with it the party of the morning . 
I was now at my place beneath the oak . 
I went forward to meet them . 
Peter and his wife received me with a calm and quiet greeting , and passed forward . 
The rest of the party had broken into groups . 
There was a kind of excitement amongst them , and much eager whispering . 
'Ah ! you should have been there , young man , to have heard it it would have made a lasting impression upon you . 
I was bathed in tears all the time those who heard it will never forget the preaching of the good Peter Williams on the Power , Providence , and Goodness of God . 
CHAPTER LXXIX Deep interest Goodly country Two mansions Welshman's Candle Beautiful universe Godly discourse Fine church Points of doctrine Strange adventures Paltry cause Roman pontiff Evil spirit . 
'Of course not , said Peter 'but we had no idea of losing thee so soon we had almost hoped that thou wouldst join us , become one of us . 
We are under infinite obligations to thee . 
Hearken , to morrow we go into Wales go with us . 
'I have no wish to go into Wales , said I. 'Why not ? said Peter , with animation . 
My friend , if the joys of heaven are great , unutterably great , so are the torments of hell unutterably so . 
Authors , friend , and learned men , are not altogether agreed as to the particulars of hell . 
They all agree , however , in considering it a place of exceeding horror . 
Master Ellis Wyn , who by the bye was a churchman , calls it , amongst other things , a place of strong sighs , and of flaming sparks . 
'But , as I told you just now , I have no great pleasure in talking of hell . 
No , friend , no I would sooner talk of the other place , and of the goodness and hospitality of God amongst His saints above . 
And when he had finished what he had to say , he left me , whereupon Winifred drew nigh , and sitting down by me began to address me . 
Yet , during the whole time that I have known thee , I have not heard proceed from thy lips one single word of praise or thanksgiving to . 
On the next day everything was ready for our departure . 
The good family of the house came to bid us farewell . 
There were shaking of hands , and kisses , as on the night of our arrival . 
Then , after looking around her , she said , 'It was all true you told me . 
Yesterday I received a letter from him thou wottest of he is coming soon . 
Peter was very cheerful , and enlivened the way with godly discourse and spiritual hymns , some of which were in the Welsh language . 
'Very probably , said Peter 'more the pity . 
But I have told you the reason of my forsaking it . 
'The Church of England is a fine church , said I 'I would not advise any one to speak ill of the Church of England before me . 
'It is too proud for that , said Winifred . 
'You are much more of a Methodist , said I , 'than your husband . 
So it happened , some weeks ago , that I was exercising my ministry about forty miles from here . 
He was about my own age , or somewhat older . 
As I looked upon him , it appeared to me that I had seen him twice before whilst preaching . 
I replied to his salutation , and perceiving that he looked somewhat fatigued , I took out a stool from the cart , and asked him to sit down . 
We began to discourse I at first supposed that he might be one of ourselves , some wandering minister but I was soon undeceived . 
Neither his language nor his ideas were those of any one of our body . 
He spoke on all kinds of matters with much fluency till at last he mentioned my preaching , complimenting me on my powers . 
As I uttered these last words , a horrible kind of sneer came over his countenance , which made me shudder , for there was something diabolical in it . 
I said little more , but listened attentively to his discourse . 
At last he said that I was engaged in a paltry cause , quite unworthy of one of my powers . 
I then asked him who his master was he hesitated for a moment , and then answered , The Roman Pontiff . 
If it be he , said I , I can have nothing to do with him I will serve no one who is an enemy of Christ . 
Two days after , he again stood before me , in the same place , and about the same hour , renewing his propositions , and speaking more horribly than before . 
Who are you ? said he , fiercely . 
This man's wife , said she , calmly fixing her eyes upon him . 
Begone from him , unhappy one , thou temptest him in vain . 
CHAPTER LXXX The border Thank you both Pipe and fiddle Taliesin . 
WE were now drawing very near the hills , and Peter said , 'If you are to go into Wales , you must presently decide , for we are close upon the border . 
'Which is the border ? said I. 'Yon small brook , said Peter , 'into which the man on horseback who is coming towards us is now entering . 
'I see it , said I , 'and the man he stops in the middle of it , as if to water his steed . 
We proceeded till we had nearly reached the brook . 
'Well , said Peter , 'will you go into Wales ? 'What should I do in Wales ? I demanded . 
'Do ! said Peter , smiling , 'learn Welsh . 
I stopped my little pony . 
'Then I need not go into Wales I already know Welsh . 
'Know Welsh ! said Peter , staring at me . 
'Know Welsh ! said Winifred , stopping her cart . 
'How and when did you learn it ? said Peter . 
'From books , in my boyhood . 
'Read Welsh ! said Peter 'is it possible ? 'Read Welsh ! said Winifred 'is it possible ? 'Well , I hope you will come with us , said Peter . 
'Come with us , young man , said Winifred 'let me , on the other side of the brook , welcome you into Wales . 
'Thank you both , said I , 'but I will not come . 
'Wherefore ? exclaimed both , simultaneously . 
'Because it is neither fit nor proper that I cross into Wales at this time , and in this manner . 
'How ! said Peter , 'hast thou translated the works of the mighty Dafydd ? 'With notes critical , historical , and explanatory . 
'Come with us , friend , said Peter . 
'I cannot promise such a dinner as thou wishest , but neither pipe nor fiddle shall be wanting . 
'Come with us , young man , said Winifred , 'even as thou art , and the daughters of Wales shall bid thee welcome . 
'I shall turn back with him . 
'Go not back with him , said Winifred . 
'If thou goest with that man , thou wilt soon forget all our profitable counsels come with us . 
'I cannot I have much to say to him . 
Kosko Divvus , Mr. Petulengro . 
'Kosko Divvus , Pal , said Mr. Petulengro , riding through the water 'are you turning back ? I turned back with Mr. Petulengro . 
God bless you both ! 'Take this , said Peter , and he thrust his Welsh Bible into my hand . 
SO I turned back with Mr. Petulengro . 
We travelled for some time in silence at last we fell into discourse . 
'You have been in Wales , Mr. Petulengro ? 'Ay , truly , brother . 
'What have you been doing there ? 'Assisting at a funeral . 
'At whose funeral ? 'Mrs . 
'Is she dead , then ? 'As a nail , brother . 
'How did she die ? 'By hanging , brother . 
'Early in the morning the funeral took place . 
When it was over , and we had got back to the encampment , I prepared to be going . 
Well , brother , she told me all this and , moreover , that when Mrs. Herne heard of it , she said that a dream of hers had come to pass . 
'And I am glad to see you , Mr. Petulengro but this is sad news which you tell me about Mrs. Herne . 
'I am sorry for her , said I 'more especially as I am the cause of her death though the innocent one . 
This is not the first poisoning affair she has been engaged in . 
'You allude to drabbing bawlor . 
'Bah ! said Mr. Petulengro 'there's no harm in that . 
No , no ! she has cast drows in her time for other guess things than bawlor both Gorgios and Romans have tasted of them , and died . 
Did you never hear of the poisoned plum pudding ? 'Never . 
'Then I will tell you about it . 
All of a sudden a rumour was spread abroad that the woman was about to play false , and to 'peach the rest . 
Said the principal man , when he heard it , If she does , I am nashkado . 
Then hir mi devlis , said she , you are a fool . 
But leave the matter to me , I know how to dispose of her in Roman fashion . 
The lane is called the dark lane by the Gorgios , being much shaded by trees . 
Brother , I do not know what the plastramengro thought of himself , but I know , brother , what I should have thought of myself in his situation . 
I should have thought , brother , that I was a drowsy scoppelo , and that I had let the fellow pass by whilst I was sleeping behind a bush . 
Well , brother , the foremost man came to the gate , reached at the hank , undid it , and rode through , holding it open for the other . 
I am of opinion , brother , that the plastramengro , notwithstanding he went to sleep , must have been a regular fine fellow . 
The plastramengro , however , received it partly on his staff , so that it did him no particular damage . 
But you must have heard of it every one has heard of it every one has heard of the fight between the Bow Street engro and the Rommany chal . 
'I never heard of it till now . 
'All England rung of it , brother . 
There never was a better match than between those two . 
The chal fought the engro , brother , in the old Roman fashion . 
He bit , he kicked , and screamed like a wild cat of Benygant casting foam from his mouth and fire from his eyes . 
Sometimes he was beneath the engro's legs , and sometimes he was upon his shoulders . 
'And what did the other fellow do , who came with the chal ? said I. 'I sat still on my horse , brother . 
'You ! said I. 'Were you the man ? 'I was he , brother . 
'And why did you not help your comrade ? 'I have fought in the ring , brother . 
'And what had fighting in the ring to do with fighting in the lane ? 'You mean not fighting . 
A great deal , brother it taught me to prize fair play . 
When I fought Staffordshire Dick , t'other side of London , I was alone , brother . 
'The ground is smooth , said Mr. Petulengro 'without holes or ruts , and the trees cast much shade . 
I don't think , brother , that we could find a better place , said Mr. Petulengro , springing from his horse . 
'But you and I don't want to fight ! 'Speak for yourself , brother , said Mr. Petulengro . 
'However , I will tell you how the matter stands . 
There is a point at present between us . 
There can be no doubt that you are the cause of Mrs. Herne's death , innocently , you will say , but still the cause . 
CHAPTER LXXXII Offence and defence I'm satisfied Fond of solitude Possession of property Chal Devlehi Winding path . 
I declined his offer , assigning as a reason the recent death of Mrs. Herne , of which I was the cause , although innocent . 
'A pretty life I should lead with those two , said I , 'when they came to know it . 
'Pooh , said Mr. Petulengro , 'they will never know it . 
I shan't blab , and as for Leonora , that girl has a head on her shoulders . 
'Unlike the woman in the sign , said I , 'whose head is cut off . 
I have moreover another reason for declining your offer . 
I am at present not disposed for society . 
I am become fond of solitude . 
I wish I could find some quiet place to which I could retire to hold communion with my own thoughts , and practise , if I thought fit , either of my trades . 
'What trades ? said Mr. Petulengro . 
'Why , the one which I have lately been engaged in , or my original one , which I confess I should like better , that of a kaulo mescro . 
'And how do you know that I have got wherewithal to pay the reckoning ? I demanded . 
Pay the reckoning , brother . 
And when we were once more upon the road , Mr. Petulengro began to talk of the place which he conceived would serve me as a retreat under present circumstances . 
It is a deep dingle in the midst of a large field , on an estate about which there has been a lawsuit for some years past . 
I daresay you will be quiet enough , for the nearest town is five miles distant , and there are only a few huts and hedge public houses in the neighbourhood . 
I never feel so merry as when there , brother , or on the heath above it , where I taught you Rommany . 
Shortly after this discourse we reached a milestone , and a few yards from the milestone , on the left hand , was a crossroad . 
Thereupon Mr. Petulengro said , 'Brother , my path lies to the left if you choose to go with me to my camp , good if not , Chal Devlehi . 
'I will here ply the trade of kaulomescro , said I. CHAPTER LXXXIII Highly poetical Volundr Grecian mythology Making a petul Tongues of flame Hammering Spite of dukkerin Heaviness . 
IT has always struck me that there is something highly poetical about a forge . 
I believe the life of any blacksmith , especially a rural one , would afford materials for a highly poetical history . 
I never associate Vulcan and his Cyclops with the idea of a forge . 
These gentry would be the very last people in the world to flit across my mind whilst gazing at the forge from the bottom of the dark lane . 
The truth is , they are highly unpoetical fellows , as well they may be , connected as they are with the Grecian mythology . 
I am in the dingle making a horse shoe . 
Perhaps , if I had sought all England , I should scarcely have found an animal more in need of the kind offices of the smith . 
'You belonged to a tinker before , said I , addressing the animal , 'but now you belong to a smith . 
It is said that the household of the shoemaker invariably go worse shod than that of any other craft . 
I tell you what , my gry , whilst you continue with me , you shall both be better shod and better fed than you were with your last master . 
I have for some time past been plying the peshota , or bellows , endeavouring to raise up the yag , or fire , in my primitive forge . 
I am not going to enter into farther details with respect to the process it was rather a wearisome one . 
I was determined to make a horse shoe , and a good one , in spite of every obstacle ay , in spite of dukkerin . 
But I had not yet shod my little gry this I proceeded now to do . 
After having first well pared the hoofs with my churi , I applied each petul hot , glowing hot , to the pindro . 
Oh , how the hoofs hissed ! and , oh , the pleasant pungent odour which diffused itself through the dingle ! an odour good for an ailing spirit . 
Heaviness had come over me . 
CHAPTER LXXXIV Several causes Frogs and eftes Gloom and twilight What should I do ? 'Our Father' Fellow men What a mercy ! Almost calm Fresh store History of Saul Pitch dark . 
HEAVINESS had suddenly come over me , heaviness of heart , and of body also . 
Several causes , perhaps , co operated to bring about the state in which I then felt myself . 
I am , however , inclined to believe that Mrs. Herne's cake had quite as much to do with the matter as insufficient nourishment . 
Suddenly I started up , and could scarcely repress the shriek which was rising to my lips . 
Was it possible ? Yes , all too certain the evil one was upon me the inscrutable horror which I had felt in my boyhood had once more taken possession of me . 
Every moment I felt it gathering force , and making me more wholly its own . 
What should I do ? resist , of course and I did resist . 
I rushed amongst the trees , and struck at them with my bare fists , and dashed my head against them , but I felt no pain . 
I could no longer stay there up I rose from the ground , and attempted to escape . 
At the bottom of the winding path which led up the acclivity I fell over something which was lying on the ground the something moved , and gave a kind of whine . 
It was my little horse , which had made that place its lair my little horse my only companion and friend in that now awful solitude . 
I reached the mouth of the dingle the sun was just sinking in the far west behind me , the fields were flooded with his last gleams . 
How beautiful everything looked in the last gleams of the sun ! I felt relieved for a moment I was no longer in the horrid dingle . 
My horror increased what was I to do ? it was of no use fighting against the horror that I saw the more I fought against it , the stronger it became . 
I knew they would consider me a maniac , if I went screaming amongst them and I did not wish to be considered a maniac . 
I continued in this posture a long time , undergoing what I cannot describe , and would not attempt if I were able . 
At last it appeared to me that the horror was not so strong , not quite so strong , upon me . 
I said no more I was too agitated and now I was almost sure that the horror had done its worst . 
After a little time I arose , and staggered down yet farther into the dingle . 
I again found my little horse on the same spot as before . 
I put my hand to his mouth he licked my hand . 
I flung myself down by him , and put my arms round his neck the creature whinnied , and appeared to sympathise with me . 
I laid my head on his neck , and felt almost calm . 
I awoke it was dark , dark night not a star was to be seen but I felt no fear , the horror had left me . 
I arose from the side of the little horse , and went into my tent , lay down , and again went to sleep . 
After my meal , I went to the pit and filled a can with water , which I brought to the dingle , and then again sat down on my stone . 
I considered what I should next do it was necessary to do something , or my life in this solitude would be insupportable . 
What should I do ? read ? Yes , but I had no other book than the Bible which the Welsh Methodist had given me . 
Well , why not read the Bible ? I was once fond of reading the Bible ay , but those days were long gone by . 
So I took the Bible out of the sack , in which it was lying in the cart , and began to read at the place where I chanced to open it . 
I opened it at that part where the history of Saul commences . 
Time wore away I finished the book of Saul , and , closing the volume , returned it to its place . 
I then returned to my seat on the stone , and thought of what I had read , and what I had lately undergone . 
I sat motionless on my stone , the sensations passed away , and the fear came not . 
My little horse came now and lay down on the ground beside the forge I was not quite deserted . 
I again ate some of the coarse food , and drank plentifully of the water which I had fetched in the morning . 
I then put fresh fuel on the fire , and sat for a long time looking on the blaze I then went into my tent . 
I awoke , on my own calculation , about midnight it was pitch dark , and there was much fear upon me . 
I don't see why I should not write a little sometimes I have pens and an ink horn , and for a writing desk I can place the Bible on my knee . 
I shouldn't wonder if I could write a capital satire on the world on the back of that Bible but , first of all , I must think of supplying myself with food . 
I rose up from the stone on which I was seated , determining to go to the nearest town , with my little horse and cart , and procure what I wanted . 
In order to go lighter , I determined to leave my tent standing as it was , and all the things which I had purchased of the tinker , just as they were . 
I will now harness my little gry and be off to the town . 
Now , Ambrol , in the gypsy tongue , signifieth a pear . 
Could it proceed from the road ? Oh no , the road was too far distant for me to hear the noise of anything moving along it . 
Anon I heard a boisterous shout , which seemed to proceed from the entrance of the dingle . 
Whilst thus occupied , the head of the man was averted from me . 
'Why don't you move forward , Jack ? said another voice , also a female , yet higher up the path . 
'What's the matter ? said the voice which I had last heard . 
'Get back with you , Belle , Moll , said the man , still staring at me 'here's something not over canny or comfortable . 
'What is it ? said the same voice 'let me pass , Moll , and I'll soon clear the way' and I heard a kind of rushing down the path . 
'Afraid ! growled the fellow , proceeding to unharness his horse 'that was the word , I think . 
But other figures were now already upon the scene . 
'What's the matter , Jack ? said the latter , looking at the man . 
'Only afraid , that's all , said the man , still proceeding with his work . 
'Afraid at what at that lad ? why , he looks like a ghost I would engage to thrash him with one hand . 
'None of your chaffing , young fellow , said the tall girl , 'or I will give you what shall make you wipe your face be civil , or you will rue it . 
'I have no doubt , said I , 'that it was a great house judging from your size I shouldn't wonder if you were born in a church . 
Do you know who I am ? 'I guess I do , said I 'unless I am much mistaken , you are he whom folks call the Flaming Tinman . 
To tell you the truth , I'm glad we have met , for I wished to see you . 
These are your two wives , I suppose I greet them . 
'Well , if that doesn't beat all ! said the fellow . 
'I don't think he's chaffing now , said the girl , whose anger seemed to have subsided on a sudden 'the young man speaks civil enough . 
'Civil ! said the fellow , with an oath 'but that's just like you with you it is a blow , and all over . 
Civil ! I suppose you would have him stay here , and get into all my secrets , and hear all I may have to say to my two morts . 
'Two morts ! said the girl , kindling up , 'where are they ? Speak for one , and no more . 
I am no mort of yours , whatever some one else may be . 
'What's this ? said he , rushing forward and seizing the animal . 
'Why , as I am alive , this is the horse of that mumping villain Slingsby . 
'It's his no longer I bought it and paid for it . 
'It's mine now , said the fellow 'I swore I would seize it the next time I found it on my beat ay , and beat the master too . 
'You don't say you will beat me ? 'Afraid was the word . 
'Won't the horse satisfy you ? 'Horse nor bellows either . 
'No mercy , then ? 'Here's at you . 
'Mind your eyes , Jack . 
There , you've got it . 
I thought so , shouted the girl , as the fellow staggered back from a sharp blow in the eye 'I thought he was chaffing at you all along . 
The Flaming Tinman took her advice , and came in bent on smashing , but stopped short on receiving a left handed blow on the nose . 
'You'll never beat the Flaming Tinman in that way , said the girl , looking at me doubtfully . 
The fellow's strength appeared to be tremendous . 
'Pay him off now , said the vulgar woman . 
The Flaming Tinman made no reply , but , planting his knee on my breast , seized my throat with two huge horny hands . 
'Do you call that fair play ? said she . 
'Hands off , Belle , said the other woman 'do you call it fair play to interfere ? hands off , or I'll be down upon you myself . 
'Now , will you use Long Melford ? said Belle , picking me up . 
'I don't know what you mean by Long Melford , said I , gasping for breath . 
'Why , this long right of yours , said Belle , feeling my right arm 'if you do , I shouldn't wonder if you yet stand a chance . 
And now the Flaming Tinman was once more ready , much more ready than myself . 
I , however , rose from my second's knee as well as my weakness would permit me . 
'Hurrah for Long Melford ! I heard Belle exclaim 'there is nothing like Long Melford for shortness , all the world over . 
At these words I turned round my head as I lay , and perceived the Flaming Tinman stretched upon the ground apparently senseless . 
I put my hand to his heart , and felt a slight pulsation 'He's not dead , said I , 'only stunned if he were let blood , he would recover presently . 
Do you want to complete your work , and murder him outright , now he's asleep ? you have had enough of his blood already . 
'You are mad , said I , 'I only seek to do him service . 
Well , if you won't let him be blooded , fetch some water and fling it in his face , you know where the pit is . 
'Do you go , said I to the tall girl 'take the can and fetch some water from the pit . 
Here I heard a loud sound of voices in the dingle I stopped , and laying hold of a tree , leaned over the bank and listened . 
The two women appeared to be in hot dispute in the dingle . 
'It was all owing to you , you limmer , said the vulgar woman to the other 'had you not interfered , the old man would soon have settled the boy . 
'I'm for fair play and Long Melford , said the other . 
'Hold your tongue , or I'll I listened no farther , but hastened as fast as I could to the dingle . 
I lost no time in dashing the greater part of the water into the Tinman's face , whereupon he sneezed , moved his hands , and presently looked round him . 
At last he looked at his right hand , which had evidently suffered from the blow against the tree , and a half stifled curse escaped his lips . 
The vulgar woman now said something to him in a low tone , whereupon he looked at her for a moment , and then got upon his legs . 
Again the vulgar woman said something to him her looks were furious , and she appeared to be urging him on to attempt something . 
I observed that she had a clasped knife in her hand . 
The other cart and horse had remained standing motionless during the whole affair which I have been recounting , at the bottom of the pass . 
I'm sorry for what has happened , but you have only yourselves to thank for it . 
Now , shall I go with you , only tell me ? The man made no manner of reply , but flogged his horse . 
Have you with us , indeed ! after what's past ! no , nor nothing belonging to you . 
Fetch down your mailia go cart and live here with your chabo . 
She then whipped on the horse , and ascended the pass , followed by the man . 
The carts were light , and they were not long in ascending the winding path . 
I followed to see that they took their departure . 
Arriving at the top , I found near the entrance a small donkey cart , which I concluded belonged to the girl . 
Arrived there , I found Belle seated on the stone by the fireplace . 
Her hair was all dishevelled , and she was in tears . 
'They were bad people , said she , 'and I did not like them , but they were my only acquaintance in the wide world . 
CHAPTER LXXXVI At tea Vapours Isopel Berners Softly and kindly Sweet pretty creature Bread and water Two sailors Truth and constancy Very strangely . 
'This tea is very good , said I , 'but I cannot enjoy it as much as if I were well I feel very sadly . 
'That's a great deal for a person in your station to pay . 
It is well for you that I can be fierce sometimes . 
If I hadn't taken your part against Blazing Bosville , you wouldn't be now taking tea with me . 
'It is true that you struck me in the face first but we'll let that pass . 
So that man's name is Bosville what's your own ? 'Isopel Berners . 
'Well , then , here it is , and much good may it do you as for my name , I got it from my mother . 
'Your mother's name , then , was Isopel ! 'Isopel Berners . 
'But had you never a father ? 'Yes , I had a father , said the girl , sighing , 'but I don't bear his name . 
'Is it the fashion , then , in your country for children to bear their mother's name ? 'If you ask such questions , young man , I shall be angry with you . 
I have told you my name , and , whether my father's or mother's , I am not ashamed of it . 
'It is a noble name . 
'There you are right , young man . 
'What do you mean by the great house ? 'The workhouse . 
'Is it possible that you were born there ? 'Yes , young man and as you now speak softly and kindly , I will tell you my whole tale . 
My father was an officer of the sea , and was killed at sea as he was coming home to marry my mother , Isopel Berners . 
She was a sweet pretty creature , I'm told , but hardly fit for this world , being neither large , nor fierce , nor able to take her own part . 
So I was born and bred in the great house , where I learnt to read and sew , to fear God , and to take my own part . 
Of course I wanted little persuasion , so I got into the cart and went with her . 
She took me to London and various other places , and I soon found that she was a travelling woman , who went about the country with silks and linen . 
I was of great use to her , more especially in those places where we met evil company . 
Once , as we were coming from Dover , we were met by two sailors , who stopped our cart , and would have robbed and stripped us . 
'Let me get down , said I so I got down , and fought with them both , till they turned round and ran away . 
After which I travelled the country melancholy enough for want of company , but so far fortunate , that I could take my own part when anybody was uncivil to me . 
'How do you feel , young man ? 'Very much afraid . 
'Afraid , at what ? At the Flaming Tinman ? Don't be afraid of him . 
'I'm not afraid of the Flaming Tinman . 
'What , then , are you afraid of ? 'The evil one . 
'The evil one ! said the girl , 'where is he ? 'Coming upon me . 
'Never heed , said the girl , 'I'll stand by you . 
CHAPTER LXXXVII Hubbub of voices No offence Nodding The guests . 
THE kitchen of the public house was a large one , and many people were drinking in it there was a confused hubbub of voices . 
This was my left hand , which was raw and swollen , from the blows dealt on a certain hard skull in a recent combat . 
'What do you mean by staring at my hand so ? said I , with drawing it from the table . 
In about a minute he returned , with a jug of ale foaming high . 
Then , placing the jug on the table , he gave me a confidential nod , and swaggered out of the room . 
It may kill me , thought I , as I drank deep but who cares ? anything is better than what I have suffered . 
And in that attitude I remained some time , perfectly unconscious . 
At length , by degrees , perception returned , and I lifted up my head . 
I felt somewhat dizzy and bewildered , but the dark shadow had withdrawn itself from me . 
And now once more I drank of the jug this second draught did not produce an overpowering effect upon me it revived and strengthened me I felt a new man . 
I looked around me the kitchen had been deserted by the greater part of the guests besides myself , only four remained these were seated at the farther end . 
One was haranguing fiercely and eagerly he was abusing England , and praising America . 
At last he exclaimed , 'So when I gets to New York , I will toss up my hat , and damn the King . 
'Who would live in such a country as England ? he shouted . 
wives and daughters , as William Cobbett says , in his Register . 
'Ah , the Church of England has been a source of incalculable mischief to these realms , said another . 
The person who uttered these words sat rather aloof from the rest he was dressed in a long black surtout . 
On the table near him was a glass and spoon . 
'You are quite right , said the first , alluding to what this last had said , 'the Church of England has done incalculable mischief here . 
the King , I'll toss up my hat again , and . 
the Church of England too . 
'And suppose the people of New York should clap you in the stocks ? said I. These words drew upon me the attention of the whole four . 
The Radical and his companion stared at me ferociously the man in black gave me a peculiar glance from under his slouched hat the simple looking man in the labouring dress laughed . 
'I speak against the great American nation ! said I 'I rather paid them a compliment . 
'By supposing they would put me in the stocks . 
Well , I call it abusing them , to suppose they would do any such thing stocks , indeed ! there are no stocks in all the land . 
The Radical dashed his pipe to pieces against the table . 
'I tell you what , young fellow , you are a spy of the aristocracy , sent here to kick up a disturbance . 
'Kicking up a disturbance , said I , 'is rather inconsistent with the office of spy . 
If I were a spy , I should hold my head down , and say nothing . 
The man in black partially raised his head , and gave me another peculiar glance . 
'Well , if you aren't sent to spy , you are sent to bully , to prevent people speaking , and to run down the great American nation but you shan't bully me . 
I say , down with the aristocracy , the beggarly British aristocracy . 
Come , what have you to say to that ? 'Nothing , said I. 'Nothing ! repeated the Radical . 
'No , said I , 'down with them as soon as you can . 
'As soon as I can ! I wish I could . 
But I can down with a bully of theirs . 
'You won't fight for them , said the Radical triumphantly 'I thought so all bullies , especially those of the aristocracy , are cowards . 
Here , landlord , said he , raising his voice , and striking against the table with the jug , 'some more ale he won't fight for his friends . 
'A white feather , said his companion . 
'He ! he ! tittered the man in black . 
'Landlord , landlord , shouted the Radical , striking the table with the jug louder than before . 
'Who called ? said the landlord , coming in at last . 
'Fill this jug again , said the other , 'and be quick about it . 
'Does any one else want anything ? said the landlord . 
'Yes , said the man in black 'you may bring me another glass of gin and water . 
'Cold ? said the landlord . 
'Yes , said the man in black , 'with a lump of sugar in it . 
'Gin and water cold , with a lump of sugar in it , said I , and struck the table with my fist . 
'Take some ? said the landlord , inquiringly . 
'No , said I , 'only something came into my head . 
'He's mad , said the man in black . 
'Not he , said the Radical . 
'He's only shamming he knows his master is here , and therefore has recourse to these manoeuvres , but it won't do . 
Come , landlord , what are you staring at ? Why don't you obey your orders ? Keeping your customers waiting in this manner is not the way to increase your business . 
The landlord looked at the Radical , and then at me . 
At last , taking the jug and glass , he left the apartment , and presently returned with each filled with its respective liquor . 
Every one who speaks against the Church of England has my warm heart . 
Down with it , I say , and may the stones of it be used for mending the roads , as my friend William says in his Register . 
The man in black , with a courteous nod of his head , drank to the man in the snuff coloured coat . 
It is a bad Church , a persecuting Church . 
'Whom does it persecute ? said I. The man in black glanced at me slightly , and then replied slowly , 'The Catholics . 
'And do those whom you call Catholics never persecute ? said I. 'Never , said the man in black . 
'Did you ever read Foxe's BOOK OF MARTYRS ? said I. 'He ! he ! tittered the man in black 'there is not a word of truth in Foxe's BOOK OF MARTYRS . 
'Ten times more than in the FLOS SANCTORUM , said I. The man in black looked at me , but made no answer . 
Come , don't look fierce . 
To the Pope broken bells , to Saint James broken shells . 
No Popish vile oppression , but the Protestant succession . 
Confusion to the Groyne , hurrah for the Boyne , for the army at Clonmel , and the Protestant young gentlemen who live there as well . 
'An Orangeman , said the man in black . 
'Not a Platitude , said I. The man in black gave a slight start . 
'Amongst that family , said I , 'no doubt , something may be done , but amongst the Methodist preachers I should conceive that the success would not be great . 
The man in black sat quite still . 
'Especially amongst those who have wives , I added . 
The man in black stretched his hand towards his gin and water . 
'However , said I , 'we shall see what the grand movement will bring about , and the results of the lessons in elocution . 
The man in black lifted the glass up to his mouth , and , in doing so , let the spoon fall . 
'But what has this to do with the main question ? said I 'I am waiting here to fight against the Pope . 
'Come , Hunter , said the companion of the man in the snuff coloured coat , 'get up , and fight for the Pope . 
'I don't care for the young fellow , said the man in the snuff coloured coat . 
'I know you don't , said the other , 'so get up , and serve him out . 
'I could serve out three like him , said the man in the snuff coloured coat . 
'So much the better for you , said the other , 'the present work will be all the easier for you , get up , and serve him out at once . 
The man in the snuff coloured coat did not stir . 
'Who shows the white feather now ? said the simple looking man . 
'He ! he ! he ! tittered the man in black . 
I tell you what , you may fight for yourself . 
I'll see you and your Pope in the pit of Eldon before I fight for either of you , so make the most of it . 
'I have no particular quarrel against the Church of England , said the man in the snuff coloured coat , 'my quarrel is with the aristocracy . 
Thereupon , dashing his hat on the table , he placed himself in an attitude of offence and rushed forward . 
Any collision , however , was prevented by the landlord , who , suddenly appearing , thrust himself between us . 
Aren't it all true , young man ? Aren't you he that beat Flaming Bosville , in Mumpers' Dingle ? 'I never beat Flaming Bosville , said I , 'he beat himself . 
Had he not struck his hand against a tree , I shouldn't be here at the present moment . 
I remember , when I was young , fighting with Tom of Hopton , the best man that ever pulled off coat in England . 
Now , Mr. Hunter , I have one thing to say , if you choose to go into the field behind the house , and fight the young man , you can . 
I'll back him for ten pounds but no fighting in my kitchen because why ? I keeps a decent kind of an establishment . 
'I have no wish to fight the young man , said Hunter 'more especially as he has nothing to say for the aristocracy . 
'Oh , I have no wish to fight , said the man in black , hastily 'fighting is not my trade . 
If I have given any offence , I beg anybody's pardon . 
'Landlord , said I , 'what have I to pay ? 'Nothing at all , said the landlord 'glad to see you . 
This is the first time that you have been at my house , and I never charge new customers , at least customers such as you , anything for the first draught . 
You'll come again , I daresay shall always be glad to see you . 
I won't take it , said he , as I put sixpence on the table 'I won't take it . 
'I shall be happy to drink with the young man whenever I meet him at New York , where , do you see , things are better managed than here . 
'I have nothing further to say , said I , 'than that the roots of Ararat are occasionally found to be deeper than those of Rome . 
'There's half a crown broke , said the landlord , as the man in black let fall the glass , which was broken to pieces on the floor . 
'You will pay me the damage , friend , before you leave this kitchen . 
I like to see people drink freely in my kitchen , but not too freely , and I hate breakages because why ? I keeps a decent kind of an establishment . 
CHAPTER LXXXIX The dingle Give them ale Not over complimentary America Many people Washington Promiscuous company Language of the roads The old women Numerals The man in black . 
THE public house where the scenes which I have attempted to describe in the preceding chapters took place , was at the distance of about two miles from the dingle . 
The sun was sinking in the west by the time I returned to the latter spot . 
I found Belle seated by a fire , over which her kettle was suspended . 
During my absence she had prepared herself a kind of tent , consisting of large hoops covered over with tarpaulins , quite impenetrable to rain , however violent . 
'I am glad you are returned , said she , as soon as she perceived me 'I began to be anxious about you . 
'He was no advocate for tea , then ? said I. 'He had no objection to tea but he used to say , Everything in its season . 
Shall we take ours now ? I have waited for you . 
'I have no objection , said I 'I feel rather heated , and at present should prefer tea to ale Everything in its season , as the surgeon said . 
'One only feels uncomfortable , said I , 'in being silent , when one happens to be thinking of the individual with whom one is in company . 
To tell you the truth , I was not thinking of my companion , but of certain company with whom I had been at the public house . 
'Really , young man , said Belle , 'you are not over complimentary but who may this wonderful company have been some young ? and here Belle stopped . 
'No , said I , 'there was no young person if person you were going to say . 
There , you know my company , and what took place . 
'Was there no one else ? said Belle . 
'You are mighty curious , said I. 'No , none else , except a poor simple mechanic , and some common company , who soon went away . 
'I daresay it is , said I 'I have heard my father say that the Americans are first rate marksmen . 
'I shall go by myself , said Belle , 'unless unless that should happen which is not likely I am not fond of Radicals no more than I am of scoffers and mockers . 
I have now one thing to beg , which is , that if you have anything to say against America , you would speak it out boldly . 
'What should I have to say against America ? I never was there . 
'Many people speak against America who never were there . 
'Many people speak in praise of America who never were there but with respect to myself , I have not spoken for or against America . 
'If you liked America you would speak in its praise . 
'By the same rule , if I disliked America I should speak against it . 
'I can't speak with you , said Belle 'but I see you dislike the country . 
'The country ! 'Well , the people don't you ? 'I do . 
'And that is your reason for disliking the Americans ? 'Yes , said I , 'that is my reason for disliking them . 
'Will you take another cup of tea ? said Belle . 
I took another cup we were again silent . 
'It is rather uncomfortable , said I , at last , 'for people to sit together without having anything to say . 
'Were you thinking of your company ? said Belle . 
'What company ? said I. 'The present company . 
'The present company ! oh , ah I remember that I said one only feels uncomfortable in being silent with a companion , when one happens to be thinking of the companion . 
Belle , I have determined to give you lessons in Armenian . 
'Well , Armenian is the speech of people of that place , and I should like to teach it you . 
'To prevent 'Ay , ay , to prevent our occasionally feeling uncomfortable together . 
'Would not the language of the roads do as well ? said Belle . 
'In some places it would , said I , 'but not at Court , owing to its resemblance to thieves' slang . 
Belle , I will now give you a lesson in Armenian . 
'I suppose you mean no harm , said Belle . 
'Not in the least I merely propose the thing to prevent our occasionally feeling uncomfortable together . 
'Stop till I have removed the tea things , said Belle and , getting up , she removed them to her own encampment . 
'I am sure that word will hang upon my memory , said Belle . 
We will now proceed to the numerals . 
'What are numerals ? said Belle . 
I will say the Haikan numbers up to ten . 
There have you heard them ? 'Yes . 
'Well , try and repeat them . 
'I only remember number one , said Belle , 'and that because it is me . 
I will repeat them again , said I , 'and pay greater attention . 
'Me , jergo , earache . 
'I neither said jergo nor earache . 
I said yergou and yerek . 
Belle , I am afraid I shall have some difficulty with you as a scholar . 
Her eyes were turned in the direction of the winding path which led from the bottom of the hollow , where we were seated , to the plain above . 
'Gorgio shunella , she said at length , in a low voice . 
'Pure Rommany , said I 'where ? I added , in a whisper . 
'Dovey odoi , said Belle , nodding with her head towards the path . 
CHAPTER XC Buona sera Rather apprehensive The steep bank Lovely virgin Hospitality Tory minister Custom of the country Sneering smile Wandering Zigan Gypsies' cloaks Certain faculty Acute answer Various ways Addio Best Hollands . 
At length , looking around the dingle , he exclaimed , 'Buona sera , I hope I don't intrude . 
'You have as much right here , said I , 'as I or my companion but you had no right to stand listening to our conversation . 
'I was not listening , said the man , 'I was hesitating whether to advance or retire and if I heard some of your conversation , the fault was not mine . 
'And what may have been your motive for coming to this place ? said I. 'Per far visita a sua signoria , ecco il motivo . 
And at the conclusion of this speech the man in black lifted up his head , and , for some moments , looked me in the face . 
I made , indeed , nearly the compass of the whole thicket before I found it . 
'And how did you know that I was here ? I demanded . 
But , now I am here , I crave permission to remain a little time , in order that I may hold some communion with you . 
'Well , said I , 'since you are come , you are welcome please to step this way . 
Thereupon I conducted the man in black to the fireplace , where Belle was standing , who had risen from her stool on my springing up to go in quest of the stranger . 
'I am not in the habit of shaking hands with strangers , said Belle . 
'Do you take me for a listener then ? said the man in black . 
'That's not English doctrine , said the man in black . 
No Englishman will tolerate another in his house , from whom he does not expect advantage of some kind , and to those from whom he does he can be civil enough . 
Should a hunted fugitive rush into an Englishman's house , beseeching protection , and appealing to the master's feelings of hospitality , the Englishman would knock him down in the passage . 
'You are too general , said I , 'in your strictures . 
'Well , said I , 'we will drop the matter , but pray seat yourself on that stone , and I will sit down on the grass near you . 
'Will you permit me to ask , said the man in black 'the weather is very warm , said he , interrupting himself , and taking off his hat . 
'A bad countenance , said Belle , in the language of the roads , observing that my eyes were fixed on his face . 
'Does not my countenance please you , fair damsel ? said the man in black , resuming his hat , and speaking in a peculiarly gentle voice . 
'How , said I , 'do you understand the language of the roads ? 'As little as I do Armenian , said the man in black 'but I understand look and tone . 
'So do I , perhaps , retorted Belle 'and , to tell you the truth , I like your tone as little as your face . 
'Will you permit me to ask who you are ? 'Do you see the place where I live ? said I. 'I do , said the man in black , looking around . 
'Do you know the name of this place ? 'I was told it was Mumpers' or Gypsies' Dingle , said the man in black . 
'Good , said I 'and this forge and tent , what do they look like ? 'Like the forge and tent of a wandering Zigan I have seen the like in Italy . 
'Good , said I 'they belong to me . 
'Are you , then , a gypsy ? said the man in black . 
'Do you know how gypsies live ? said I. 'By hammering old iron , I believe , and telling fortunes . 
'Well , said I , 'there's my forge , and yonder is some iron , though not old , and by your own confession I am a soothsayer . 
Go to the scarlet dyer , and ask him how he dyes cloth . 
'Why scarlet ? said the man in black . 
'Is it because gypsies blush like scarlet ? 'Gypsies never blush , said I 'but gypsies' cloaks are scarlet . 
'But you found me giving a lesson in Armenian to this handmaid ? 'I believe I did , said the man in black . 
'And you heard me give what you are disposed to call acute answers to the questions you asked me ? 'I believe I did , said the man in black . 
'And would any one but a philologist think of giving a lesson in Armenian to a handmaid in a dingle ? 'I should think not , said the man in black . 
'What's the matter with you ? said I. 'Merely puzzled , said the man in black . 
'Tea ! said the man in black 'he ! he ! I don't drink tea I don't like it if , indeed , you had , and here he stopped . 
'There's nothing like gin and water , is there ? said I , 'but I am sorry to say I have none . 
'Have I your permission to come again ? said the man in black . 
'Come when you please this dingle is as free for you as me . 
'I will visit you again , said the man in black 'till then , addio . 
'Belle , said I , after the man in black had departed , 'we did not treat that man very hospitably he left us without having eaten or drunk at our expense . 
'You offered him some tea , said Belle , 'which , as it is mine , I should have grudged him , for I like him not . 
Belle , do you know where to procure any good Hollands ? 'I think I do , said Belle , 'but 'I will have no buts . 
Belle , I expect that with as little delay as possible you procure , at my expense , the best Hollands you can find . 
CHAPTER XCI Excursions Adventurous English Opaque forests The greatest patience . 
TIME passed on , and Belle and I lived in the dingle when I say lived , the reader must not imagine that we were always there . 
She went out upon her pursuits , and I went out where inclination led me but my excursions were very short ones , and hers occasionally occupied whole days and nights . 
The people who chiefly spoke against it , as she informed me , were soldiers disbanded upon pensions , the sextons of village churches , and excisemen . 
She had a dauntless heart , that same Belle . 
Such was the staple of Belle's conversation . 
Belle had a kind heart , and would weep at the accounts I gave her of my early wrestlings with the dark Monarch . 
And now I have given a very fair account of the manner in which Isopel Berners and myself passed our time in the dingle . 
CHAPTER XCII The landlord Rather too old Without a shilling Reputation A fortnight ago Liquids The main chance Respectability Irrational beings Parliament cove My brewer . 
AMONGST other excursions , I went several times to the public house to which I introduced the reader in a former chapter . 
After each visit which I made to the public house , I found my frame stronger and my mind more cheerful than they had previously been . 
'I loves the conversation of all you coves of the ring , said he once , 'which is natural , seeing as how I have fought in a ring myself . 
Ah , there is nothing like the ring I wish I was not rather too old to go again into it . 
About ten days after this harangue I called again , at about three o'clock one afternoon . 
At the sound of my step he looked up 'Ah , said he , 'I am glad you are come , I was just thinking about you . 
'Thank you , said I 'it was very kind of you , especially at a time like this , when your mind must be full of your good fortune . 
Allow me to congratulate you on the sums of money you won by the main of cocks at . 
I hope you brought it all safe home . 
'Safe home ! said the landlord 'I brought myself safe home , and that was all came home without a shilling , regularly done , cleaned out . 
'Pea and thimble , said the landlord 'not I those confounded cocks left me nothing to lose by the pea and thimble . 
'Dear me , said I 'I thought that you knew your birds . 
The landlord struck the table before him violently with his fist . 
'Confound my reputation ! said he . 
'No reputation that I have will be satisfaction to my brewer for the seventy pounds I owe him . 
It was only last night that fellow , Hunter , called me an old fool in my own kitchen here . 
I was thinking of you just as you came in , for you are just the person that can help me . 
'The young woman I keep company with , said I 'pray what do you mean ? 'We will go into the bar , and have something , said the landlord , getting up . 
'My niece is out , and there is no one in the house , so we can talk the matter over quietly . 
Only let me have my own way , and both the brewer , myself , and every one of us , will be satisfied . 
I can manage to raise ten pounds , and if by flashing that about I don't manage to make a hundred , call me horse . 
The birds fought fair but I intend that you and the young woman should fight cross . 
'But , said I , 'you said the other day that you liked the fair thing . 
Come , what do you think of the plan ? 'It is a very ingenious one , said I. 'Ain't it ? said the landlord . 
Come , drink your ale , and go home to the young gentlewoman . 
'I am going , said I , rising from my seat , after finishing the remainder of the ale . 
'Do you think she'll have any objection ? said the landlord . 
'To do what ? said I. 'Why , to fight cross . 
'And how's my brewer to be paid ? said the landlord . 
'I really don't know , said I. 'I'll change my religion , said the landlord . 
CHAPTER XCIII Another visit A la Margutte Clever man Napoleon's estimate Another statue . 
ONE evening Belle and myself received another visit from the man in black . 
'This is one of the good things of life , he added , after a short pause . 
'What are the others ? I demanded . 
'There is Malvoisia sack , said the man in black , 'and partridge , and beccafico . 
'He ! he ! he ! said the man in black 'that is more than Mezzofante could have done for a stanza of Byron . 
'A clever man , said I. 'Who ? said the man in black . 
'You ought to speak of him with more respect , said I 'I have heard say that he has done good service to your See . 
'You are ungrateful to him , said I 'well , perhaps , when he is dead and gone you will do him justice . 
'Wood ? said I. 'I hope not , said the man in black 'no , if I be consulted as to the material for the statue , I should strongly recommend bronze . 
And when the man in black had said this , he emptied his second tumbler of its contents , and prepared himself another . 
'SO you hope to bring these regions again beneath the banner of the Roman See ? said I , after the man in black had prepared the beverage , and tasted it . 
'I speak advisedly , said he , in continuation 'there is one Platitude . 
'He tried that game , said I , 'and the parish said Pooh , pooh , and , for the most part , went over to the Dissenters . 
'It may have vigour and authority , said I , 'in foreign lands , but in these kingdoms the day for practising its atrocities is gone by . 
It is at present almost below contempt , and is obliged to sue for grace IN FORMA PAUPERIS . 
'Very true , said the man in black 'but let it once obtain emancipation , and it will cast its slough , put on its fine clothes , and make converts by thousands . 
'What a fine Church ! they'll say 'with what authority it speaks ! no doubts , no hesitation , no sticking at trifles . 
'What then ? said I. 'What then ? said the man in black , 'why she will be true to herself . 
'And this is the Church which , according to your assertion in the public house , never persecutes ? 'I have already given you an answer , said the man in black . 
'They will never become so , said I 'the good sense of the people of England will never permit them to commit such an absurdity . 
'The good sense of the people of England ! said the man in black , filling himself another glass . 
'Yes , said I , 'the good sense of not only the upper , but the middle and lower classes . 
'And of what description of people are the upper class ? said the man in black , putting a lump of sugar into his gin and water . 
'Very fine people , said I , 'monstrously fine people so , at least , they are generally believed to be . 
'He ! he ! said the man in black 'only those think them so who don't know them . 
The male part of the upper class are in youth a set of heartless profligates in old age , a parcel of poor , shaking , nervous paillards . 
Everything that's lofty meets their unqualified approbation whilst everything humble , or , as they call it , low , is scouted by them . 
'Do you think that the writings of Scott have had any influence in modifying their religious opinions ? 'Most certainly I do , said the man in black . 
'The writings of that man have made them greater fools than they were before . 
Why , I would engage to convert such an idiot to popery in a week , were it worth my trouble . 
'Only in theory , said the man in black . 
'Trust any of the clan Mac Sycophant for interfering openly and boldly in favour of any cause on which the sun does not shine benignantly . 
'I doubt not , said I , 'that both gouty George and his devoted servant will be mouldering in their tombs long before Royalty in England thinks about adopting popery . 
'We can wait , said the man in black 'in these days of rampant gentility , there will be no want of kings nor of Scots about them . 
As for literature in general , said he , 'the Santa Sede is not particularly partial to it , it may be employed both ways . 
In Italy , in particular , it has discovered that literary men are not always disposed to be lickspittles . 
Then there were some of the writers of the picaresque novels . 
'Why should I mind ? said the man in black , 'there are no literary men here . 
I have heard of literary men living in garrets , but not in dingles , whatever philologists may do I may , therefore , speak out freely . 
It is only in England that literary men are invariably lickspittles on which account , perhaps , they are so despised , even by those who benefit by their dirty services . 
Don't think they will always bespatter the Tories and Austria . 
Look , for example , at that very powerful and numerous body the Dissenters , the descendants of those sturdy Patriots who hurled Charles the Simple from his throne . 
All the plain and simple fashions of their forefathers they are either about to abandon , or have already done so . 
And look at the manner in which they educate their children I mean those that are wealthy . 
They do not even wish them to be Dissenters the sweet dears shall enjoy the advantages of good society , of which their parents were debarred . 
It is no bad thing to have a fighting fellow , who keeps a public house , belonging to one's religion . 
He has been occasionally employed as a bully at elections by the Tory party , and he may serve us in the same capacity . 
'A disgraceful affair , said I. 'What do you mean by a disgraceful affair ? said the man in black . 
'I suppose , said I , 'that your Church would have acted very differently in its place . 
'It has always done so , said the man in black , coolly sipping . 
We would occasionally stuff the beastly rabble with horseflesh and bitter ale , and then halloo them on against all those who were obnoxious to us . 
'Horseflesh and bitter ale ! I replied . 
I never knew one of them that possessed the slightest principle , no , not . 
It is true , there was one fellow whom I once met , who but it is a long story , and the affair happened abroad . 
I ought to know something of the English people , he continued , after a moment's pause 'I have been many years amongst them , labouring in the cause of the Church . 
'Your See appears to entertain a very strange opinion of the English , said I. 'Not altogether an unjust one , said the man in black , lifting the glass to his mouth . 
'Well , said I , 'it is certainly very kind on its part to wish to bring back such a set of beings beneath its wing . 
'Well , said I , 'whatever their faults may be , you can't say that they go to Rome for money . 
The man in black made no direct answer , but appeared by the motion of his lips to be repeating something to himself . 
'I see your glass is again empty , said I 'perhaps you will replenish it . 
NEARLY three days elapsed without anything of particular moment occurring . 
Belle drove the little cart containing her merchandise about the neighbourhood , returning to the dingle towards the evening . 
As for myself , I kept within my wooded retreat , working during the periods of her absence leisurely at my forge . 
As I was employed three mornings and afternoons about them , I am sure that the reader will agree that I worked leisurely , or rather , lazily . 
'Why have you been absent so long ? said I to Belle 'it must be long past four by the day . 
'I have been almost killed by the heat , said Belle 'I was never out in a more sultry day the poor donkey , too , could scarcely move along . 
'He shall have fresh shoes , said I , continuing my exercise 'here they are quite ready to morrow I will tack them on . 
'And why are you playing with them in that manner ? said Belle . 
'And another on my cheek , said I , getting up 'it is time to discontinue the game , for the last shoe drew blood . 
I purchased , for a trifle , a bundle or two , and the wood on the fire is part of it ash , green ash . 
'That makes good the old rhyme , said Belle , 'which I have heard sung by the old women in the great house 'Ash , when green , Is fire for a queen . 
'And on fairer form of queen ash fire never shone , said I , 'than on thine , O beauteous queen of the dingle . 
'I am half disposed to be angry with you , young man , said Belle . 
'And why not entirely ? said I. Belle made no reply . 
'Shall I tell you ? I demanded . 
'You had no objection to the first part of the speech , but you did not like being called queen of the dingle . 
Well , if I had the power , I would make you queen of something better than the dingle Queen of China . 
Come , let us have tea . 
'Something less would content me , said Belle , sighing , as she rose to prepare our evening meal . 
So we took tea together , Belle and I. 'How delicious tea is after a hot summer's day and a long walk , said she . 
'Where does tea come from ? she presently demanded . 
'From China , said I 'I just now mentioned it , and the mention of it put me in mind of tea . 
'Are the French so very clever , then ? said Belle . 
'They say there are no people like them , at least in Europe . 
But talking of Chinese reminds me that I have not for some time past given you a lesson in Armenian . 
Belle , there are ten declensions in Armenian ! 'What's a declension ? 'The way of declining a noun . 
'Then , in the civilest way imaginable , I decline the noun . 
Is that a declension ? 'You should never play on words to do so is low , vulgar , smelling of the pothouse , the workhouse . 
Belle , I insist on your declining an Armenian noun . 
'I have done so already , said Belle . 
'If you go on in this way , said I , 'I shall decline taking any more tea with you . 
Will you decline an Armenian noun ? 'I don't like the language , said Belle . 
'The Armenian noun , said I , 'which I propose for your declension this night , is , which signifieth Master . 
'I neither like the word nor the sound , said Belle . 
Come , let us begin 'A master . 
Of a master , etc . 
Repeat 'I am not much used to say the word , said Belle , 'but to oblige you I will decline it as you wish' and thereupon Belle declined Master in Armenian . 
'You have declined the noun very well , said I 'that is in the singular number we will now go to the plural . 
'What is the plural ? said Belle . 
'That which implies more than one , for example , Masters you shall now go through masters in Armenian . 
'Never , said Belle , 'never it is bad to have one master , but more I would never bear , whether in Armenian or English . 
'You do not understand , said I 'I merely want you to decline Masters in Armenian . 
'How dark the place is become since I left you , said she 'just as if night were just at hand . 
'Look up at the sky , said I 'and you will not wonder it is all of a deep olive . 
'It is not probable that we shall want it , said I , 'but we had better seek shelter let us go into my tent . 
'Go in , said Belle , 'but you go in alone as for me , I will seek my own . 
'You are right , said I , 'to be afraid of me I have taught you to decline master in Armenian . 
'You almost tempt me , said Belle , 'to make you decline mistress in English . 
'To make matters short , said I , 'I decline a mistress . 
'What do you mean ? said Belle , angrily . 
'The rain is increasing , said Belle . 
'It is so , said I 'I shall go to my tent you may come if you please I do assure you I am not afraid of you . 
'Nor I of you , said Belle 'so I will come . 
Why should I be afraid ? I can take my own part that is We went into the tent and sat down , and now the rain began to pour with vehemence . 
'I hope we shall not be flooded in this hollow , said I to Belle . 
'There is no fear of that , said Belle 'the wandering people , amongst other names , call it the dry hollow . 
I believe there is a passage somewhere or other by which the wet is carried off . 
There must be a cloud right above us , it is so dark . 
Oh ! what a flash ! 'And what a peal ! said I 'that is what the Hebrews call Koul Adonai the voice of the Lord . 
Are you afraid ? 'No , said Belle , 'I rather like to hear it . 
'You are right , said I , 'I am fond of the sound of thunder myself . 
There is nothing like it Koul Adonai behadar the voice of the Lord is a glorious voice , as the prayer book version hath it . 
'There is something awful in it , said Belle 'and then the lightning the whole dingle is now in a blaze . 
The voice of the Lord maketh the hinds to calve , and discovereth the thick bushes . 
As you say , there is something awful in thunder . 
'I don't think so , said I 'after braving a thousand tempests , it was meeter for it to fall of itself than to be vanquished at last . 
But to return to Ab Gwilym's poetry he was above culling dainty words , and spoke boldly his mind on all subjects . 
The man must have been a savage . 
A poor wood pigeon has fallen dead . 
'Yes , said I , 'there he lies , just outside the tent often have I listened to his note when alone in this wilderness . 
Hear'st not , sister 'Hark ! said Belle , 'hark ! 'Hear'st not , sister , a chorus Of voices ? 'No , said Belle , 'but I hear a voice . 
I LISTENED attentively , but I could hear nothing but the loud clashing of branches , the pattering of rain , and the muttered growl of thunder . 
'I will soon see what's the matter , said I to Belle , starting up . 
'I will go too said the girl . 
'Stay where you are , said I 'if I need you , I will call' and , without waiting for any answer , I hurried to the mouth of the dingle . 
'Lord have mercy upon us ! I heard a voice say , and methought I heard the plunging and struggling of horses . 
I had stopped short on hearing the crash , for I was half stunned but I now hurried forward , and in a moment stood upon the plain . 
Here I was instantly aware of the cause of the crash and the smoke . 
I instantly ran towards the chaise , in order to offer what help was in my power . 
The horses now became more furious than before , kicking desperately , and endeavouring to disengage themselves from the fallen chaise . 
She had , it seems , been alarmed by the crash which accompanied the firebolt , and had hurried up to learn the cause . 
I forthwith seized the horses by the heads , and used all the means I possessed to soothe and pacify them , employing every gentle modulation of which my voice was capable . 
'I will help , said Belle , and without loss of time laid hold of one of the traces . 
The man , after a short pause , also set to work , and in a few minutes the horses were extricated . 
I will tie the horses amongst those trees , and then we will all betake us to the hollow below . 
'And what's to become of my chaise ? said the postilion , looking ruefully on the fallen vehicle . 
'Let us leave the chaise for the present , said I 'we can be of no use to it . 
'I don't like to leave my chaise lying on the ground in this weather , said the man 'I love my chaise , and him whom it belongs to . 
'You are quite right to be fond of yourself , said I , 'on which account I advise you to seek shelter from the rain as soon as possible . 
'I was not talking of myself , said the man , 'but my master , to whom the chaise belongs . 
'I thought you called the chaise yours , said I. 'That's my way of speaking , said the man 'but the chaise is my master's , and a better master does not live . 
We two can never lift up that chaise . 
'But we three can , said Belle 'at least , I think so and I know where to find two poles which will assist us . 
'You had better go to the tent , said I , 'you will be wet through . 
'I care not for a little wetting , said Belle 'moreover , I have more gowns than one see you after the horses . 
Thereupon , I led the horses past the mouth of the dingle , to a place where a gap in the hedge afforded admission to the copse or plantation on the southern side . 
This done , I returned to the chaise and the postilion . 
In a minute or two Belle arrived with two poles which , it seems , had long been lying , overgrown with brushwood , in a ditch or hollow behind the plantation . 
With these both she and I set to work in endeavouring to raise the fallen chaise from the ground . 
As we were descending the narrow path , Belle leading the way , and myself the last of the party , the postilion suddenly stopped short , and looked about him . 
'Let me hear no more of this nonsense , said Belle 'if you are afraid , you can go back to your chaise we only seek to do you a kindness . 
'Why , he was just now talking of cutting throats , said the man . 
Belle in the meantime had repaired to her own place of abode . 
After a little time , I produced a bottle of the cordial of which I have previously had occasion to speak , and made my guest take a considerable draught . 
I then offered him some , bread and cheese , which he accepted with thanks . 
'How far are you from your home ? I demanded . 
On my return I was beset by the thunderstorm , which frightened the horses , who dragged the chaise off the road to the field above , and overset it as you saw . 
'Well , said the man , 'I shall be glad to pass the night here , provided I do not intrude , but I must see to the horses . 
Thereupon I conducted the man to the place where the horses were tied . 
IT might be about ten o'clock at night . 
Belle , the postilion , and myself , sat just within the tent , by a fire of charcoal which I had kindled in the chafing pan . 
The new comer was a well made fellow of about thirty , with an open and agreeable countenance . 
I found him very well informed for a man in his station , and with some pretensions to humour . 
'Well , said I , 'I am glad that your opinion of us has improved it is not long since you seemed to hold us in rather a suspicious light . 
The postilion took the shoes and examined them . 
'So you made these shoes ? he cried at last . 
'To be sure I did do you doubt it ? 'Not in the least , said the man . 
'Ah ! ah ! said I , 'I thought I should bring you back to your original opinion . 
I am , then , a vagrant gypsy body , a tramper , a wandering blacksmith . 
'Not a blacksmith , whatever else you may be , said the postilion , laughing . 
'Then how do you account for my making those shoes ? 'By your not being a blacksmith , said the postilion 'no blacksmith would have made shoes in that manner . 
'Then , said I , 'for what do you take me ? 'Why , for some runaway young gentleman , said the postilion . 
'You had become acquainted with this young gentlewoman , so she and you 'Mind how you get on , friend , said Belle , in a deep serious tone . 
'Pray proceed , said I 'I daresay you mean no offence . 
'None in the world , said the postilion 'all I was going to say was , that you agreed to run away together , you from college , and she from boarding school . 
Well , there's nothing to be ashamed of in a matter like that , such things are done every day by young folks in high life . 
'Are you offended ? said I to Belle . 
Belle made no answer but , placing her elbows on her knees , buried her face in her hands . 
'And from Gretna Green we came here ? 'I'll be bound you did , said the man , 'till you could arrange matters at home . 
'Really , said I , 'you are getting on swimmingly . 
'Oh , said the postilion , 'I was not a gentleman's servant nine years without learning the ways of gentry , and being able to know gentry when I see them . 
'And what do you say to all this ? I demanded of Belle . 
A great professor used to come and give them lessons , and I used to stand and listen , by which means I picked up a considerable quantity of what is called rhetoric . 
Well , your friends will be all the happier to get you back . 
'Yes , said the girl , 'and you know it . 
'And his borough interest ? 'My father had no borough interest , said I 'had he possessed any , he would perhaps not have died , as he did , honourably poor . 
'No , no , said the postilion , 'if he had had borough interest , he wouldn't have been poor , nor honourable , though perhaps a right honourable . 
However , with your grand education and genteel manners , you made all right at last by persuading this noble young gentlewoman to run away from boarding school with you . 
'Wooh ! said the postilion . 
Indeed , with respect to blood , I believe I am of better blood than the young man . 
'There you are mistaken , said I 'by my father's side I am of Cornish blood , and by my mother's of brave French Protestant extraction . 
'We do not come from Gretna Green , said Belle . 
'Ah , I had forgot , said the postilion 'none but great people go to Gretna Green . 
Well , then , from church , and already quarrelling about family , just like two great people . 
'And in order that you may be no longer puzzled with respect to myself , said I 'I will give you a brief outline of my history . 
And here I lived , doing harm to no one , quite lonely and solitary , till one fine morning the premises were visited by this young gentlewoman and her companions . 
She says she is nothing to me , even as I am nothing to her . 
I am of course nothing to her , but she is mistaken in thinking she is nothing to me . 
I entertain the highest regard and admiration for her , being convinced that I might search the whole world in vain for a nature more heroic and devoted . 
'Well , said the postilion , 'I have been mistaken about you that is , not altogether , but in part . 
You are not rich folks , it seems , but you are not common people , and that I could have sworn . 
'Who is Mumbo Jumbo ? said I. 'Ah ! said the postilion , 'I see there may be a thing or two I know better than yourself . 
Mumbo Jumbo is a god of the black coast , to which people go for ivory and gold . 
'Were you ever there ? I demanded . 
'No , said the postilion , 'but I heard plenty of Mumbo Jumbo when I was a boy . 
'I wish you would tell us something about yourself . 
I believe that your own real history would prove quite as entertaining , if not more , than that which you imagined about us . 
'I am rather tired , said the postilion , 'and my leg is rather troublesome . 
I should be glad to try to sleep upon one of your blankets . 
However , as you wish to hear something about me , I shall be happy to oblige you but your fire is rather low , and this place is chilly . 
I then brought it into the tent and reseated myself , scattering over the coals a small portion of sugar . 
'No bad smell , said the postilion 'but upon the whole I think I like the smell of tobacco better and with your permission I will once more light my pipe . 
Thereupon he relighted his pipe and , after taking two or three whiffs , began in the following manner . 
'I was born in the neighbouring county my father was land steward to a squire of about a thousand a year . 
My father had two sons , of whom I am the youngest by some years . 
Strange stories he used to tell us of what he had been witness to on the high Barbary coast , both off shore and on . 
'I stayed at home with my parents until I was about eighteen , assisting my father in various ways . 
I then went to live at the Squire's , partly as groom , partly as footman . 
After living in the country some time , I attended the family in a trip of six weeks which they made to London . 
I was glad to accept his offer , and in a few days went to my new place . 
I liked this place much better than my first , there was so much more pleasant noise and bustle so much more grand company , and so many more opportunities of improving myself . 
Some of the ladies quite captivated me there was the Marchioness of in particular . 
There was one in particular , whom I frequently used to stare at , not altogether unlike some one I have seen hereabouts he had a slight cast in his eye , and . 
but I won't enter into every particular . 
And then the footmen ! Oh , how those footmen helped to improve me with their conversation . 
Many of them could converse much more glibly than their masters , and appeared to have much better taste . 
At any rate , they seldom approved of what their masters did . 
I remember being once with one in the gallery of the play house , when something of Shakspeare's was being performed some one in the first tier of boxes was applauding very loudly . 
That's my fool of a governor , said he he is weak enough to like Shakspeare I don't he's so confoundedly low , but he won't last long going down . 
Shakspeare culminated I think that was the word culminated some time ago . 
'After I had been three years at this place my mistress died . 
The old baronet consented , though young master was much against it , saying they would all be much better at home . 
So the old gentleman and the two young ladies set off , taking me with them , and a couple of ladies' maids to wait upon them . 
I should have passed my idle time at Paris , of which I had plenty after the sight seeing was over , very unpleasantly , but for Black Jack . 
A strange fellow he was of what country no one could exactly say for as for judging from speech , that was impossible , Jack speaking all languages equally ill . 
But , whatever his origin was , Jack kept his own counsel , and appeared to care nothing for what people said about him , or called him . 
Yes , I forgot , there was one name he would not be called , and that was Portuguese . 
I once saw Black Jack knock down a coachman , six foot high , who called him black faced Portuguese . 
This is all that I have to say about Black Jack , without whose funny jokes and good ordinary I should have passed my time in Paris in a very disconsolate manner . 
'After we had been at Paris between two and three months , we left it in the direction of Italy , which country the family had a great desire to see . 
The ship in which we embarked was bound for a place in Italy called Naples , where we were to stay some time . 
There were only two passengers in the grand cabin , where my governor and his daughters were , an Italian lady and a priest . 
, and it would have been well for our family had they never met him . 
Both , however , kept him rather at a distance the young ladies were reserved , and once or twice I heard our governor cursing him between his teeth for a sharking priest . 
Well , we went out and came in going to see the sights , and returning . 
Amongst other things we saw was the burning mountain , and the tomb of a certain sorcerer called Virgilio , who made witch rhymes , by which he could raise the dead . 
Plenty of people came to see us , both English and Italians , and amongst the rest the priest . 
'I did not like that Jack Priest so I kept my eye upon all his motions . 
And sure enough , in a little time , the girls had altogether left off going to an English chapel , and were continually visiting places of Italian worship . 
Besides our own family there was the priest and his subordinate , and a couple of hired lackeys . 
At last we arrived at the place where was the holy image . 
'At this place the priest left us , returning to Naples with his subordinate , on some particular business I suppose . 
It was , however , agreed that he should visit us at the Holy City . 
The lad having opened the door for me , shut it behind me , and went away . 
He then arose and opened the door for me to depart . 
The man was perfectly civil and courteous , but I did not like that strange laugh of his after having read the letter . 
He was as good as his word , and that same day paid us a visit . 
It was furnished partly with articles which we bought , and partly with those which we hired . 
We lived something in the same way as at Naples but though I did not much like Naples , I yet liked it better than this place , which was so gloomy . 
I have seen him laugh at our governor and the young ladies , when their heads were turned away , but I heard no sound . 
And then the other laugh , which you could hear what a strange laugh that was , never loud , yes , I have heard it tolerably loud . 
'At last the day of the grand festival came , and we were all to go to the big church to hear the mass . 
I have a dim recollection that hands were laid upon me , and that I struck out violently left and right . 
And now hurried into the room our poor old governor , with the red haired priest . 
Whereupon they left me , and in a little time I was told by the bluff looking Merry andrews I was at liberty to depart . 
I believe the priest , in order to please my governor , interceded for me in high quarters . 
He showed himself , as he always did , perfectly civil , asked me how I was , took a chair and sat down . 
You remember those fine fellows to day who took you into custody , they are the guards of his Holiness . 
I have no doubt that I have interest enough to procure your enrolment amongst them . 
What , said I , become swashbuckler to Mumbo Jumbo up here ! May I . 
and here I swore if I do . 
The mere possibility of one of their children being swashbuckler to Mumbo Jumbo on the high Barbary shore has always been a source of heart breaking to my poor parents . 
That same evening my young master unexpectedly arrived . 
I believe he soon perceived that something extraordinary had been going on in the family . 
Before I left him , he entreated me to inform him the very next time I saw the priests entering the house . 
I will just finish what I am about , said he , and then wait upon these gentlemen . 
Oh , it was a fine sermon that my young master preached , and sorry I am that the Father of the Fetish , old Mumbo , did not hear it . 
I believe that the old governor was glad of his son's arrival , and rejoiced at the idea of getting away from Italy , where he had been so plundered and imposed upon . 
The priests , however , made another attempt upon the poor young ladies . 
They took the hint and departed , and we saw no more of them . 
Oh , glad was I to leave that fetish country and old Mumbo behind me ! CHAPTER C Nothing but gloom Sporting character Gouty Tory Servants' Club Politics Reformado footman Peroration Good night . 
The next season I attended my master , his son , and eldest daughter to London , as I had previously done . 
'My new master was what is called a sporting character , very fond of the turf , upon which he was not very fortunate . 
At length he was brought nearly to his last shifts , by backing the favourite at the Derby , which favourite turned out a regular brute , being found nowhere at the rush . 
Whereupon , he and I had a solemn consultation over fourteen glasses of brandy and water , and as many cigars I mean , between us as to what was to be done . 
He wished to start a coach , in which event he was to be driver , and I guard . 
At the end of that period we paid a visit to his relation , an old gouty Tory , who at first received us very coolly . 
'But as he got up in the world he began to look down on me . 
The proposition , however , was not carried into effect , and I was permitted to show myself among them , though few condescended to take much notice of me . 
My master was one of the best men in the world , but also one of the most sensitive . 
On his veracity being impugned by the editor of a newspaper , he called him out , and shot him through the arm . 
Though servants are seldom admirers of their masters , I was a great admirer of mine , and eager to follow his example . 
So he took my challenge , which was accepted we went out , Lord C 's servant being seconded by a reformado footman from the palace . 
Being , however , one of the best men in the world , on his discharging me he made me a donation of twenty pounds . 
I now determined to visit my parents , whom I had not seen for years . 
By living at the inn I had contracted an acquaintance with the master and the people , and become accustomed to inn life . 
I offered them to the master , who , finding I knew something of horses , engaged me as a postilion . 
I have remained there since . 
You have now heard my story . 
'Stay , you shan't say that I told my tale without a per peroration . 
What shall it be ? Oh , I remember something which will serve for one . 
End of the Project Gutenberg eText Lavengro Lavengro , The Scholar , The Gypsy , The Priest By George Borrow . 
