Prepared by John M. Krafft email krafftjm muohio . 
edu Lemorne Versus Huell Elizabeth Drew Stoddard Harper's New Monthly Magazine . 
My aunt was troublesome , for she was not only out of health , but in a lawsuit . 
I arrived at her house in Bond Street at A. M. , and found her man James in conversation with the milkman . 
He informed me that Miss Huell was very bad , and that the housekeeper was still in bed . 
I supposed that Aunt Eliza was in bed also , but I had hardly entered the house when I heard her bell ring as she only could ring it with an impatient jerk . 
She wants hot milk , said James , and the man has just come . 
I laid my bonnet down , and went to the kitchen . 
Here is your milk , Aunt Eliza . 
You have sent for me to help you , and I begin with the earliest opportunity . 
I looked for you an hour ago . 
Your mother is well , I suppose . 
She would have sent you , though , had she been sick in bed . 
She thinks better of my coming than I do . 
The housekeeper , Mrs. Roll , came in , and Aunt Eliza politely requested her to have breakfast for her niece as soon as possible . 
I do not go down of mornings yet , said Aunt Eliza , but Mrs. Roll presides . 
See that the coffee is good , Roll . 
It is good generally , Miss Huell . 
You see that Margaret brought me my milk . 
Ahem ! said Mrs. Roll , marching out . 
At the beginning of each visit to Aunt Eliza I was in the habit of dwelling on the contrast between her way of living and ours . 
We lived from hand to mouth . 
Every thing about her wore a hereditary air for she lived in my grandfather's house , and it was the same as in his day . 
In the middle of the day Aunt Eliza came down stairs , and after she had received a visit from her doctor , decided to go to Newport on Saturday . 
It was Wednesday and I could , if I chose , make any addition to my wardrobe . 
I had none to make , I informed her . 
What were my dresses ? had I a black silk ? she asked . 
I had no black silk , and thought one would be unnecessary for hot weather . 
Who ever heard of a girl of twenty four having no black silk ! You have slimsy muslins , I dare say ? Yes . 
And you like them ? For present wear . 
That afternoon she sent Mrs. Roll out , who returned with a splendid heavy silk for me , which Aunt Eliza said should be made before Saturday , and it was . 
I went to a fashionable dress maker of her recommending , and on Friday it came home , beautifully made and trimmed with real lace . 
Even the Pushers could find no fault with this , said Aunt Eliza , turning over the sleeves and smoothing the lace . 
Somehow she smuggled into the house a white straw bonnet , with white roses also a handsome mantilla . 
She held the bonnet before me with a nod , and deposited it again in the box , which made a part of the luggage for Newport . 
On Sunday morning we arrived in Newport , and went to a quiet hotel in the town . 
James was with us , but Mrs. Roll was left in Bond Street , in charge of the household . 
Monday was spent in an endeavor to make an arrangement regarding the hire of a coach and coachman . 
Several livery stable keepers were in attendance , but nothing was settled , till I suggested that Aunt Eliza should send for her own carriage . 
James was sent back the next day , and returned on Thursday with coach , horses , and William her coachman . 
As we were returning from the beach we met a carriage containing a number of persons with a family resemblance . 
Litigation was a habit of the Huell family . 
So the sight of the Uxbridge family did not agitate me as it did Aunt Eliza . 
The bath fatigued her so she remained in her room for the rest of the day but she kept me busy with a hundred trifles . 
I wrote for her , computed interest , studied out bills of fare , till four o'clock came , and with it a fog . 
Nevertheless I must ride on the Avenue , and the carriage was ordered . 
Wear your silk , Margaret it will just about last your visit through the fog will use it up . 
I am glad of it , I answered . 
You will ride every day . 
Wear the bonnet I bought for you also . 
Certainly but won't that go quicker in the fog than the dress ? Maybe but wear it . 
I rode every day afterward , from four to six , in the black silk , the mantilla , and the white straw . 
When Aunt Eliza went she was so on the alert for the Uxbridge family carriage that she could have had little enjoyment of the ride . 
Rocks never were a passion with her , she said , nor promontories , chasms , or sand . 
She had no fancy for its conglomerate societies , its literary cottages , its parvenue suits of rooms , its saloon habits , and its bathing herds . 
I considered the rides a part of the contract of what was expected in my two months' performance . 
I did not dream that I was enjoying them , any more than I supposed myself to be enjoying a sea bath while pulling Aunt Eliza to and fro in the surf . 
Nothing in the life around me stirred me , nothing in nature attracted me . 
I liked the fog somehow it seemed to emanate from me instead of rolling up from the ocean , and to represent me . 
His horse was rearing among the hissing geese , but neither horse nor geese appeared to engage him his eyes were fixed upon me . 
The horse swerved so near that its long mane almost brushed against me . 
By an irresistible impulse I laid my ungloved hand upon it , but did not look at the rider . 
Carriage and horseman passed on , and William resumed his pace . 
A vague idea took possession of me that I had seen the horseman before on my various drives . 
I had a vision of a man galloping on a black horse out of the fog , and into it again . 
She was crosser than the occasion warranted but I understood it when she gave me the outlines of a letter she desired me to write to her lawyer in New York . 
Something had turned up , he had written her the Uxbridges believed that they had ferreted out what would go against her . 
I told her that I had met the Uxbridge carriage . 
One of them is in New York how else could they be giving me trouble just now ? There was a gentleman on horseback beside the carriage . 
Did he look mean and cunning ? He did not wear his legal beaver up , I think but he rode a fine horse and sat it well . 
A lawyer on horseback should , like the beggar of the adage , ride to the devil . 
Your business now is the 'Lemorne ? You know it is . 
I did not know but that you had found something besides to litigate . 
It must have been Edward Uxbridge that you saw . 
He is the brain of the firm . 
You expect Mr. Van Horn ? Oh , he must come I can not be writing letters . 
We had been in Newport two weeks when Mr. Van Horn , Aunt Eliza's lawyer , came . 
He said that he would see Mr. Edward Uxbridge . 
Between them they might delay a term , which he thought would be best . 
Would Miss Huell ever be ready for a compromise ? he jestingly asked . 
Are you suspicious ? she inquired . 
No but the Uxbridge chaps are clever . 
He dined with us and at four o'clock Aunt Eliza graciously asked him to take a seat in the carriage with me , making some excuse for not going herself . 
Hullo ! said Mr. Van Horn when we had reached the country road there's Uxbridge now . 
And he waved his hand to him . 
It was indeed the black horse and the same rider that I had met . 
He reined up beside us , and shook hands with Mr. Van Horn . 
We are required to answer this new complaint ? said Mr. Van Horn . 
And after that the judgment ? Mr. Uxbridge laughed . 
I wish that certain gore of land had been sunk instead of being mapped in . 
The surveyor did his business well enough , I am sure . 
They talked together in a low voice for a few minutes , and then Mr. Van Horn leaned back in his seat again . 
Allow me , he said , to introduce you , Uxbridge , to Miss Margaret Huell , Miss Huell's niece . 
Brown , you know , he added , in an explanatory tone for I was Huell vs . 
Oh ! said Mr. Uxbridge bowing , and looking at me gravely . 
I looked at him also he was a pale , stern looking man , and forty years old certainly . 
I derived the impression at once that he had a domineering disposition , perhaps from the way in which he controlled his horse . 
Nice beast that , said Mr. Van Horn . 
Yes , he answered , laying his hand on its mane , so that the action brought immediately to my mind the recollection that I had done so too . 
I would not meet his eye again , however . 
How long shall you remain , Uxbridge ? I don't know . 
You are not interested in the lawsuit , Miss Huell ? he said , putting on his hat . 
Not in the least nothing of mine is involved . 
We'll gain it for your portion yet , Miss Margaret , said Mr. Van Horn , nodding to Mr. Uxbridge , and bidding William drive on . 
He returned the next day , and we settled into the routine of hotel life . 
A few mornings after , she sent me to a matinee , which was given by some of the Opera people , who were in Newport strengthening the larynx with applications of brine . 
He turned half away when he caught my eye , and then darted toward me . 
You have not been much more interested in the music than you are in the lawsuit , he said , seating himself beside me . 
The tutoyer of the Italian voice is agreeable , however . 
Yes , a child not a man nor a woman . 
I can not dream over 'one , two , three . 
You a music teacher ! For six years . 
You suppose ! A young gentleman sauntered by us , and Mr. Uxbridge called to him to look up the Misses Uxbridge , his nieces , on the other side of the hall . 
Paterfamilias Uxbridge has left his brood in my charge , he said . 
I try to do my duty , and he held out a twisted pearl colored glove , which he had pulled off while talking . 
What white nervous fingers he had ! I thought they might pinch like steel . 
You suppose , he repeated . 
I do not look at Newport . 
Have you observed Waterbury ? I observe what is in my sphere . 
Oh ! He was silent then . 
The second part of the concert began but I could not compose myself to appreciation . 
Either the music or I grew chaotic . 
I had been sent in the carriage , of course but several carriages were in advance of it before the walk , and I waited there for William to drive up . 
When he did so , I saw by the oscillatory motion of his head , though his arms and whiphand were perfectly correct , that he was inebriated . 
It was his first occasion of meeting fellow coachmen in full dress , and the occasion had proved too much for him . 
My hand , however , was on the coach door , when I heard Mr. Uxbridge say , at my elbow , It is not safe for you . 
Oh , Sir , it is in the programme that I ride home from the concert . 
And I prepared to step in . 
I shall sit on the box , then . 
But your nieces ? They are walking home , squired by a younger knight . 
He thought it would be less if he were allowed to sit inside both ways were unsafe . 
William drove well from habit but James was obliged to assist him to dismount . 
Mr. Uxbridge waited a moment at the door , and so there was quite a little sensation , which spread its ripples till Aunt Eliza was reached . 
She sent for William , whose only excuse was dampness . 
Uxbridge knew my carriage , of course , she said , with a complacent voice . 
He knew me , I replied . 
You do not look like the Huells . 
I look precisely like the young woman to whom he was introduced by Mr. Van Horn . 
Oh ho ! He thought it unsafe for me to come alone under William's charge . 
Ah ha ! No more was said on the subject of his coming home with me . 
Aunt Eliza had several fits of musing in the course of the evening while I read aloud to her , which had no connection with the subject of the book . 
As I put it down she said that it would be well for me to go to church the next day . 
I acquiesced , but remarked that my piety would not require the carriage , and that I preferred to walk . 
Besides , it would be well for William and James to attend divine service . 
She could not spare James , and thought William had better clean the harness , by way of penance . 
The morning proved to be warm and sunny . 
I donned a muslin dress of home manufacture and my own bonnet , and started for church . 
I had walked but a few paces when the consciousness of being free and alone struck me . 
I halted , looked about me , and concluded that I would not go to church , but walk into the fields . 
I turned into it , and soon saw beyond the rough coast the blue ring of the ocean vast , silent , and splendid in the sunshine . 
I found a seat on the ruins of an old stone wall , among some tangled bushes and briers . 
There being no Aunt Eliza to pull through the surf , and no animated bathers near , I discovered the beauty of the sea , and that I loved it . 
Presently I heard the steps of a horse , and , to my astonishment , Mr. Uxbridge rode past . 
I was glad he did not know me . 
I watched him as he rode slowly down the road , deep in thought . 
He let drop the bridle , and the horse stopped , as if accustomed to the circumstance , and pawed the ground gently , or yawed his neck for pastime . 
Mr. Uxbridge folded his arms and raised his head to look seaward . 
It seemed to me as if he were about to address the jury . 
I had dropped so entirely from my observance of the landscape that I jumped when he resumed the bridle and turned his horse to come back . 
I slipped from my seat to look among the bushes , determined that he should not recognize me but my attempt was a failure he did not ride by the second time . 
Miss Huell ! And he jumped from his saddle , slipping his arm through the bridle . 
What do you think of the Fugitive Slave Bill ? I approve of returning property to its owners . 
The sea must have been God's temple first , instead of the groves . 
I believe the Saurians were an Orthodox tribe . 
Did you stop yonder to ponder the sea ? I was pondering 'Lemorne vs . 
He looked at me earnestly , and then gave a tug at the bridle , for his steed was inclined to make a crude repast from the bushes . 
How was it that I did not detect you at once ? he continued . 
My apparel is Waterbury apparel . 
Ah ! We walked up the road slowly till we came to the end of it then I stopped for him to understand that I thought it time for him to leave me . 
He sprang into the saddle . 
Give us good by ! he said , bringing his horse close to me . 
We are not on equal terms I feel too humble afoot to salute you . 
Put your foot on the stirrup then . 
A leaf stuck in the horse's forelock , and I pulled it off and waved it in token of farewell . 
A powerful light shot into his eyes when he saw my hand close on the leaf . 
May I come and see you ? he asked , abruptly . 
I shall say neither 'No' or 'Yes . 
He rode on at a quick pace , and I walked homeward forgetting the sense of liberty I had started with , and proceeded straightway to Aunt Eliza . 
I have not been to church , aunt , but to walk beyond the town it was not so nominated in the bond , but I went . 
The taste of freedom was so pleasant that I warn you there is danger of my 'striking . 
When will you have done with Newport ? I am pleased with Newport now , she answered , with a curious intonation . 
Did you ever like anything when you were with me before ? Never . 
I will tell you why I like it because I have met , and shall probably meet , Mr. Uxbridge . 
I saw him to day . 
He asked permission to visit me . 
But we did not see him either at the hotel or when we went abroad . 
Aunt Eliza rode with me each afternoon , and each morning we went to the beach . 
She engaged me every moment when at home , and I faithfully performed all my tasks . 
I clapped to the door on self investigation locked it against any analysis or reasoning upon any circumstance connected with Mr. Uxbridge . 
As he turned to go out he saw me and stopped . 
I have been in New York since I saw you , he said . 
Mr. Lemorne sent for me . 
There is my aunt , I said . 
I shall not go away soon again , he remarked . 
I made some foolish reply , and kept my eyes on Aunt Eliza , who dawdled unaccountably . 
He appeared amused , and after a little talk went away . 
There will be no chance for you to take a walk instead , she finished with . 
I can not dance , you know . 
But you will be there . 
Before it came off Mr. Uxbridge called , and was graciously received by Aunt Eliza , who could be gracious to all except her relatives . 
I could not but perceive , however , that they watched each other in spite of their lively conversation . 
To me he was deferential , but went over the ground of our acquaintance as if it had been the most natural thing in the world . 
When , on the night of the ball , I presented myself in the rose colored moire antique for her inspection , she raised her eyebrows , but said nothing about it . 
I need not be careful of it , I suppose , aunt ? Spill as much wine and ice cream on it as you like . 
In the dressing room Mrs. Bliss surveyed me . 
I think I like this mass of rose color , she said . 
Your hair comes out in contrast so brilliantly . 
Why , you have not a single ornament on ! It is so easy to dress without . 
This was all the conversation we had together during the evening , except when she introduced some acquaintance to fulfill her matronizing duties . 
Still I suffered the annoyance of being stared at by wandering squads of young gentlemen , the curled darlings of the ball room . 
I borrowed Mrs. Bliss's fan in one of her visits for a protection . 
With that , and the embrasure of a remote window where I finally stationed myself , I hoped to escape further notice . 
The voice of Mrs. Bliss broke its spell . 
I bring an old friend , Miss Huell , and he tells me an acquaintance of yours . 
I had no thought of meeting you , Miss Huell . 
And he coolly took the seat beside me in the window , leaving to Mrs. Bliss the alternative of standing or of going away she chose the latter . 
I saw you as soon as I came in , he said , gliding from window to window , like a vessel hugging the shore in a storm . 
With colors at half mast I have no dancing partner . 
How many have observed you ? Several young gentlemen . 
They must keep away now . 
Are you Rhadamanthus ? And Charon , too . 
I would have you row in the same boat with me . 
Did I ever look better ? His evening costume was becoming , but he looked pale , and weary , and disturbed . 
But if we were engaged for a tournament , as his behavior indicated , I must do my best at telling . 
So I told him that he never looked better , and asked him how I looked . 
He would look at me presently , he said , and decide . 
Mrs. Bliss skimmed by us with nods and smiles as she vanished our eyes followed her , and we talked vaguely on various matters , sounding ourselves and each other . 
When a furious redowa set in which cut our conversation into rhythm he pushed up the window and said , Look out . 
I turned my face to him to do so , and saw the moon at the full , riding through the strip of sky which our vision commanded . 
From the moon our eyes fell on each other . 
He took the fan from me . 
Speak of yourself , he said . 
I am what I seem , a man within your sphere . 
By all the accidents of position and circumstance suited to it . 
Have you not learned it ? I am not what I seem . 
I never wore so splendid a dress as this till tonight , and shall not again . 
He gave the fan such a twirl that its slender sticks snapped , and it dropped like the broken wing of a bird . 
Mr. Uxbridge , that fan belongs to Mrs. Bliss . 
He threw it out of the window . 
You have courage , fidelity , and patience this character with a passionate soul . 
I am sure that you have such a soul ? I do not know . 
I have fallen in love with you . 
It happened on the very day when I passed you on the way to the Glen . 
I never got away from the remembrance of seeing your hand on the mane of my horse . 
He waited for me to speak , but I could not the balance of my mind was gone . 
How do you call me 'Margaret ? As I would call my wife Margaret . 
He rose and stood before me to screen my face from observation . 
I supposed so , and endeavored to stifle my agitation . 
You are better , he said , presently . 
Come go with me and get some refreshment . 
And he beckoned to Mrs. Bliss , who was down the hall with an unwieldy gentleman . 
Will you go to supper now ? she asked . 
We are only waiting for you , Mr. Uxbridge answered , offering me his arm . 
Drink this Champagne , said Mr. Uxbridge . 
Pay no attention to the Colonel on your left he won't expect it . 
The Champagne did not prevent me from reflecting on the fact that he had not yet asked whether I loved him . 
The spirit chorus again floated through my mind Where lovers , Deep in thought , Give themselves for life . 
I was not allowed to give myself I was taken . 
No heel taps , he whispered , to the bottom quaff . 
Take me home , will you ? Mrs. Bliss is not ready . 
Tell her that I must go . 
He went behind her chair and whispered something , and she nodded to me to go without her . 
When her carriage came up , I think he gave the coachman an order to drive home in a round about way , for we were a long time reaching it . 
I kept my face to the window , and he made no effort to divert my attention . 
I struck him lightly on the shoulder he seized my hand . 
Oh , I know you , Margaret you are mine ! We are at the hotel . 
He sent the carriage back , and said that he would leave me at my aunt's door . 
He wished that he could see her then . 
Was it magic that made her open the door before I reached it ? Have you come on legal business ? she asked him . 
You have divined what I come for . 
Step in , step in it's very late . 
I should have been in bed but for neuralgia . 
Did Mr. Uxbridge come home with you , Margaret ? Yes , in Mrs. Bliss's carriage I wished to come before she was ready to leave . 
Well , Mr. Uxbridge is old enough for your protector , certainly . 
I am forty , ma'am . 
Do you want Margaret ? I do . 
You know exactly how much is involved in your client's suit ? Exactly . 
You know also that his claim is an unjust one . 
Do I ? I shall not be poor if I lose if I gain , Margaret will be rich . 
'Margaret will be rich , he repeated , absently . 
What ! have you changed your mind respecting the orphans , aunt ? She has , and is nothing , she went on , not heeding my remark . 
Her father married below his station when he died his wife fell back to her place for he spent his fortune and there she and Margaret must remain , unless Lemorne is defeated . 
Aunt , for your succinct biography of my position many thanks . 
Sixty thousand dollars , she continued . 
Van Horn tells me that , as yet , the firm of Uxbridge Brothers have only an income no capital . 
It is true , he answered , musingly . 
The clock on the mantle struck two . 
A thousand dollars for every year of my life , she said . 
You and I , Uxbridge , know the value and beauty of money . 
Yes , there is beauty in money , and looking at me beauty without it . 
The striking of the clock , I soliloquized , proves that this scene is not a phantasm . 
Margaret is fatigued , he said , rising . 
May I come to morrow ? It is my part only , replied Aunt Eliza , to see that she is , or is not , Cinderella . 
If you have ever thought of me , aunt , as an individual , you must have seen that I am not averse to ashes . 
He held my hand a moment , and then kissed me with a kiss of appropriation . 
He is in love with you , she said , after he had gone . 
I think I know him . 
He has found beauty ignorant of itself he will teach you to develop it . 
The next morning Mr. Uxbridge had an interview with Aunt Eliza before he saw me . 
When we were alone I asked him how her eccentricities affected him he could not but consider her violent , prejudiced , warped , and whimsical . 
I told him that I had been taught to accept all that she did on this basis . 
I have never been with her so long before . 
Law is a game , in her estimation , in which cheating can as easily be carried on as at cards . 
Her soul is in this case . 
Her soul is not too large for it . 
Will you ride this afternoon ? I promised , of course . 
I grew fond of him hourly . 
Had I not reason ? Never was friend so considerate , never was lover more devoted . 
When he had been gone a few days , Aunt Eliza declared that she was ready to depart from Newport . 
The rose colored days were ended ! In two days we were on the Sound , coach , horses , servants , and ourselves . 
It was the st of September when we arrived in Bond Street . 
A week from that date Samuel Uxbridge , the senior partner of Uxbridge Brothers , went to Europe with his family , and I went to Waterbury , accompanied by Mr. Uxbridge . 
He consulted mother in regard to our marriage , and appointed it in November . 
In October Aunt Eliza sent for me to come back to Bond Street and spend a week . 
She had some fine marking to do , she wrote . 
While there I noticed a restlessness in her which I had never before observed , and conferred with Mrs. Roll on the matter . 
She do be awake nights a deal , and that's the reason , Mrs. Roll said . 
Her manner was the same in other respects . 
She said she would not give me any thing for my wedding outfit , but she paid my fare from Waterbury and back . 
She could not spare me to go out , she told Mr. Uxbridge , and in consequence I saw little of him while there . 
In November we were married . 
Aunt Eliza was not at the wedding , which was a quiet one . 
Mr. Uxbridge desired me to remain in Waterbury till spring . 
He would not decide about taking a house in New York till then by that time his brother might return , and if possible we would go to Europe for a few months . 
I acquiesced in all his plans . 
Indeed I was not consulted but I was happy happy in him , and happy in every thing . 
The winter passed in waiting for him to come to Waterbury every Saturday and in the enjoyment of the two days he passed with me . 
That night I dreamed of the scene in the hotel at Newport . 
I heard Aunt Eliza saying , If I gain , Margaret will be rich . 
And I heard also the clock strike two . 
As it struck I said , My husband is a scoundrel , and woke with a start . 
