LITTLE WOMEN by Louisa May Alcott CHAPTER ONE Christmas won't be Christmas without any presents , grumbled Jo , lying on the rug . 
It's so dreadful to be poor ! sighed Meg , looking down at her old dress . 
I don't think it's fair for some girls to have plenty of pretty things , and other girls nothing at all , added little Amy , with an injured sniff . 
We've got Father and Mother , and each other , said Beth contentedly from her corner . 
She didn't say perhaps never , but each silently added it , thinking of Father far away , where the fighting was . 
We can't do much , but we can make our little sacrifices , and ought to do it gladly . 
But I am afraid I don't . 
And Meg shook her head , as she thought regretfully of all the pretty things she wanted . 
But I don't think the little we should spend would do any good . 
We've each got a dollar , and the army wouldn't be much helped by our giving that . 
I agree not to expect anything from Mother or you , but I do want to buy UNDINE AND SINTRAM for myself . 
I've wanted it so long , said Jo , who was a bookworm . 
I planned to spend mine in new music , said Beth , with a little sigh , which no one heard but the hearth brush and kettle holder . 
I shall get a nice box of Faber's drawing pencils . 
I really need them , said Amy decidedly . 
Mother didn't say anything about our money , and she won't wish us to give up everything . 
Let's each buy what we want , and have a little fun . 
I'm sure we work hard enough to earn it , cried Jo , examining the heels of her shoes in a gentlemanly manner . 
I know I do teaching those tiresome children nearly all day , when I'm longing to enjoy myself at home , began Meg , in the complaining tone again . 
You don't have half such a hard time as I do , said Jo . 
It makes me cross , and my hands get so stiff , I can't practice well at all . 
And Beth looked at her rough hands with a sigh that any one could hear that time . 
If you mean libel , I'd say so , and not talk about labels , as if Papa was a pickle bottle , advised Jo , laughing . 
I know what I mean , and you needn't be statirical about it . 
It's proper to use good words , and improve your vocabilary , returned Amy , with dignity . 
Don't peck at one another , children . 
You said the other day you thought we were a deal happier than the King children , for they were fighting and fretting all the time , in spite of their money . 
So I did , Beth . 
Well , I think we are . 
For though we do have to work , we make fun of ourselves , and are a pretty jolly set , as Jo would say . 
Jo does use such slang words ! observed Amy , with a reproving look at the long figure stretched on the rug . 
Jo immediately sat up , put her hands in her pockets , and began to whistle . 
It's so boyish ! That's why I do it . 
Really , girls , you are both to be blamed , said Meg , beginning to lecture in her elder sisterly fashion . 
You are old enough to leave off boyish tricks , and to behave better , Josephine . 
And it's worse than ever now , for I'm dying to go and fight with Papa . 
Poor Jo ! It's too bad , but it can't be helped . 
As for you , Amy , continued Meg , you are altogether to particular and prim . 
Your airs are funny now , but you'll grow up an affected little goose , if you don't take care . 
I I like your nice manners and refined ways of speaking , when you don't try to be elegant . 
But your absurd words are as bad as Jo's slang . 
If Jo is a tomboy and Amy a goose , what am I , please ? asked Beth , ready to share the lecture . 
You're a dear , and nothing else , answered Meg warmly , and no one contradicted her , for the Mouse' was the pet of the family . 
She had a decided mouth , a comical nose , and sharp , gray eyes , which appeared to see everything , and were by turns fierce , funny , or thoughtful . 
Her long , thick hair was her one beauty , but it was usually bundled into a net , to be out of her way . 
Amy , though the youngest , was a most important person , in her own opinion at least . 
A regular snow maiden , with blue eyes , and yellow hair curling on her shoulders , pale and slender , and always carrying herself like a young lady mindful of her manners . 
What the characters of the four sisters were we will leave to be found out . 
The clock struck six and , having swept up the hearth , Beth put a pair of slippers down to warm . 
Somehow the sight of the old shoes had a good effect upon the girls , for Mother was coming , and everyone brightened to welcome her . 
They are quite worn out . 
Marmee must have a new pair . 
I thought I'd get her some with my dollar , said Beth . 
No , I shall ! cried Amy . 
I'll tell you what we'll do , said Beth , let's each get her something for Christmas , land not get anything for ourselves . 
That's like you , dear ! What will we get ? exclaimed Jo . 
Army shoes , best to be had , cried Jo . 
Some handkerchiefs , all hemmed , said Beth . 
I'll get a little bottle of cologne . 
She likes it , and it won't cost much , so I'll have some left to buy my pencils , added Amy . 
How will we give the things ? asked Meg . 
Put them on the table , and bring her in and see her open the bundles . 
Don't you remember how we used to do on our birthdays ? answered Jo . 
Let Marmee think we are getting things for ourselves , and then surprise her . 
We must go shopping tomorrow afternoon , Meg . 
I don't mean to act any more after this time . 
I'm getting too old for such things , observed Meg , who was as much a child as ever about dressing up' frolics . 
You won't stop , I know , as long as you can trail round in a white gown with your hair down , and wear gold paper jewelry . 
You are the best actress we've got , and there'll be an end of everything if you quit the boards , said Jo . 
We ought to rehearse tonight . 
Come here , Amy , and do the fainting scene , for you are as stiff as a poker in that . 
I never saw anyone faint , and I don't choose to make myself all black and blue , tumbling flat as you do . 
If I can go down easily , I'll drop . 
If I can't , I shall fall into a chair and be graceful . 
Jo gave a despairing groan , and Meg laughed outright , while Beth let her bread burn as she watched the fun with interest . 
It's no use ! Do the best you can when the time comes , and if the audience laughs , don't blame me . 
Then things went smoothly , for Don Pedro defied the world in a speech of two pages without a single break . 
Hagar , the witch , chanted an awful incantation over her kettleful of simmering toads , with weird effect . 
I don't see how you can write and act such splendid things , Jo . 
You're a regular Shakespeare ! exclaimed Beth , who firmly believed that her sisters were gifted with wonderful genius in all things . 
Not quite , replied Jo modestly . 
I do think THE WITCHES CURSE , an Operatic Tragedy is rather a nice thing , but I'd like to try McBETH , if we only had a trapdoor for Banquo . 
I always wanted to do the killing part . 
Is that a dagger that I see before me ? muttered Jo , rolling her eyes and clutching at the air , as she had seen a famous tragedian do . 
No , it's the toasting fork , with Mother's shoe on it instead of the bread . 
Beth's stage struck ! cried Meg , and the rehearsal ended in a general burst of laughter . 
She was not elegantly dressed , but a noble looking woman , and the girls thought the gray cloak and unfashionable bonnet covered the most splendid mother in the world . 
Well , dearies , how have you got on today ? There was so much to do , getting the boxes ready to go tomorrow , that I didn't come home to dinner . 
Has anyone called , Beth ? How is your cold , Meg ? Jo , you look tired to death . 
Come and kiss me , baby . 
The girls flew about , trying to make things comfortable , each in her own way . 
Meg arranged the tea table , Jo brought wood and set chairs , dropping , over turning , and clattering everything she touched . 
Beth trotted to and fro between parlor kitchen , quiet and busy , while Amy gave directions to everyone , as she sat with her hands folded . 
As they gathered about the table , Mrs. March said , with a particularly happy face , I've got a treat for you after supper . 
A quick , bright smile went round like a streak of sunshine . 
He is well , and thinks he shall get through the cold season better than we feared . 
He sends all sorts of loving wishes for Christmas , and an especial message to you girls , said Mrs. March , patting her pocket as if she had got a treasure there . 
Beth ate no more , but crept away to sit in her shadowy corner and brood over the delight to come , till the others were ready . 
I think it was so splendid in Father to go as chaplain when he was too old to be drafted , and not strong enough for a soldier , said Meg warmly . 
It must be very disagreeable to sleep in a tent , and eat all sorts of bad tasting things , and drink out of a tin mug , sighed Amy . 
When will he come home , Marmee ? asked Beth , with a little quiver in her voice . 
Not for many months , dear , unless he is sick . 
He will stay and do his work faithfully as long as he can , and we won't ask for him back a minute sooner than he can be spared . 
Now come and hear the letter . 
Very few letters were written in those hard times that were not touching , especially those which fathers sent home . 
In this one little was said of the hardships endured , the dangers faced , or the homesickness conquered . 
Give them all of my dear love and a kiss . 
Tell them I think of them by day , pray for them by night , and find my best comfort in their affection at all times . 
A year seems very long to wait before I see them , but remind them that while we wait we may all work , so that these hard days need not be wasted . 
Everybody sniffed when they came to that part . 
We all will , cried Meg . 
I think too much of my looks and hate to work , but won't any more , if I can help it . 
What fun it was , especially going by the lions , fighting Apollyon , and passing through the valley where the hob goblins were , said Jo . 
I liked the place where the bundles fell off and tumbled downstairs , said Meg . 
I don't remember much about it , except that I was afraid of the cellar and the dark entry , and always liked the cake and milk we had up at the top . 
We never are too old for this , my dear , because it is a play we are playing all the time in one way or another . 
Now , my little pilgrims , suppose you begin again , not in play , but in earnest , and see how far on you can get before Father comes home . 
Really , Mother ? Where are our bundles ? asked Amy , who was a very literal young lady . 
Each of you told what your burden was just now , except Beth . 
I rather think she hasn't got any , said her mother . 
Mine is dishes and dusters , and envying girls with nice pianos , and being afraid of people . 
Beth's bundle was such a funny one that everybody wanted to laugh , but nobody did , for it would have hurt her feelings very much . 
Let us do it , said Meg thoughtfully . 
We were in the Slough of Despond tonight , and Mother came and pulled us out as Help did in the book . 
We ought to have our roll of directions , like Christian . 
What shall we do about that ? asked Jo , delighted with the fancy which lent a little romance to the very dull task of doing her duty . 
Look under your pillows christmas morning , and you will find your guidebook , replied Mrs. March . 
It was uninteresting sewing , but tonight no one grumbled . 
At nine they stopped work , and sang , as usual , before they went to bed . 
Meg had a voice like a flute , and she and herr mother led the little choir . 
They had always done this from the time they could lisp . 
Crinkle , crinkle , 'ittle 'tar , and it had become a household custom , for the mother was a born singer . 
CHAPTER TWO Jo was the first to wake in the gray dawn of Christmas morning . 
Then she remembered her mother's promise and , slipping her hand under her pillow , drew out a little crimson covered book . 
She woke Meg with a Merry Christmas , and bade her see what was under her pillow . 
A green covered book appeared , with the same picture inside , and a few words written by their mother , which made their one present very precious in their eyes . 
We used to be faithful about it , but since Father went away and all this war trouble unsettled us , we have neglected many things . 
Then she opened her new book and began to read . 
Jo put her arm round her and , leaning cheek to cheek , read also , with the quiet expression so seldom seen on her restless face . 
How good Meg is ! Come , Amy , let's do as they do . 
I'll help you with the hard words , and they'' explain things if we don't understand , whispered Beth , very much impressed by the pretty books and her sisters , example . 
I'm glad mine is blue , said Amy . 
and then the rooms were very still while the pages were softly turned , and the winter sunshine crept in to touch the bright heads and serious faces with a Christmas greeting . 
Where is Mother ? asked Meg , as she and Jo ran down to thank her for their gifts , half an hour later . 
some poor creeter came a beggin' , and your ma went straight off to see what was needed . 
why , where is Amy's bottle of cologne ? she added , as the little flask did not appear . 
Bless the child ! She's gone and put Mother' on them instead of M. March' . 
How funny ! cried Jo , taking one up . 
It's all right , dear , and a very pretty idea , quite sensible too , for no one can ever mistake now . 
It will please her very much , I know , said Meg , with a frown for Jo and a smile for Beth . 
Hide the basket , quick ! cried Jo , as a door slammed and steps sounded in the hall . 
Amy came in hastily , and looked rather abashed when she saw her sisters all waiting for her . 
Don't laugh at me , Jo ! I didn't mean anyone should know till the time came . 
I only meant to change the little bottle for a big one , and I gave all my money to get it , and I'm truly trying not to be selfish any more . 
Another bang of the street door sent the basket under the sofa , and the girls to the table , eager for breakfast . 
Merry Christmas , Marmee ! Many of them ! Thank you for our books . 
We read some , and mean to every day , they all cried in chorus . 
Merry Christmas , little daughters ! I'm glad you began at once , and hope you will keep on . 
But I want to say one word before we sit down . 
Not far away from here lies a poor woman with a little newborn baby . 
Six children are huddled into one bed to keep from freezing , for they have no fire . 
There is nothing to eat over there , and the oldest boy came to tell me they were suffering hunger and cold . 
I shall take the cream and the muffings , added Amy , heroically giving up the article she most liked . 
Meg was already covering the buckwheats , and piling the bread into one big plate . 
I thought you'd do it , said Mrs. March , smiling as if satisfied . 
You shall all go and help me , and when we come back we will have bread and milk for breakfast , and make it up at dinnertime . 
They were soon ready , and the procession set out . 
Fortunately it was early , and they went through back streets , so few people saw them , and no one laughed at the queer party . 
How the big eyes stared and the blue lips smiled as the girls went in . 
Ach , mein Gott ! It is good angels come to us ! said the poor woman , crying for joy . 
Funny angels in hoods and mittens , said Jo , and set them to laughing . 
In a few minutes it really did seem as if kind spirits had been at work there . 
Hannah , who had carried wood , made a fire , and stopped up the broken panes with old hats and her own cloak . 
Mrs. March gave the mother tea and gruel , and comforted her with promises of help , while she dressed the little baby as tenderly as if it had been her own . 
Das ist gut ! Die Engel kinder ! cried the poor things as they ate and warmed their purple hands at the comfortable blaze . 
The girls had never been called angel children before , and thought it very agreeable , especially Jo , who had been considered a Sancho' ever since she was born . 
That was a very happy breakfast , though they didn't get any of it . 
That's loving our neighbor better than ourselves , and I like it , said Meg , as they set out their presents while their mother was upstairs collecting clothes for the poor Hummels . 
Beth played her gayest march , amy threw open the door , and Meg enacted escort with great dignity . 
Mrs. March was both surprised and touched , and smiled with her eyes full as she examined her presents and read the little notes which accompanied them . 
The morning charities and ceremonies took so much time that the rest of the day was devoted to preparations for the evening festivities . 
The big chamber was the scene of many innocent revels . 
These boots , an old foil , and a slashed doublet once used by an artist for some picture , were Jo's chief treasures and appeared on all occasions . 
It was excellent drill for their memories , a harmless amusement , and employed many hours which otherwise would have been idle , lonely , or spent in less profitable society . 
On christmas night , a dozen girls piled onto the bed which was the dress circle , and sat before the blue and yellow chintz curtains in a most flattering state of expectancy . 
Presently a bell sounded , the curtains flew apart , and the OPERATIC TRAGEDY began . 
A gloomy wood , according to the one playbill , was represented by a few shrubs in pots , green baize on the floor , and a cave in the distance . 
The stage was dark and the glow of the furnace had a fine effect , especially as real steam issued from the kettle when the witch took off the cover . 
The gruff tones of Hugo's voice , with an occasional shout when his feelings overcame him , were very impressive , and the audience applauded the moment he paused for breath . 
Hugo demanded a potion to make Zara adore him , and one destroy Roderigo . 
Hagar , in a fine dramatic melody , promised both , and proceeded to call up the spirit who would bring the love philter . 
Waving a wand , it sang . 
Hither I come , From my airy home , Afar in the silver moon . 
Take the magic spell , And use it well , Or its power will vanish soon ! And dropping a small , gilded bottle at the witch's feet , the spirit vanished . 
Then the curtain fell , and the audience reposed and ate candy while discussing the merits of the play . 
He came in gorgeous array , with plumed cap , red cloak , chestnut lovelocks , a guitar , and the boots , of course . 
Kneeling at the foot of the tower , he sang a serenade in melting tones . 
Zara replied and , after a musical dialogue , consented to fly . 
Then came the grand effect of the play . 
Roderigo produced a rope ladder , with five steps to it , threw up one end , and invited Zara to descend . 
Timidly she crept from her lattice , put her hand on Roderigo's shoulder , and was about to leap gracfully down when Alas ! Alas for Zara ! she forgot her train . 
It caught in the window , the tower tottered , leaned forward , fell with a crash , and buried the unhappy lovers in the ruins . 
Don't laugh ! Act as if it was all right ! and , ordering Roderigo up , banished him form the kingdom with wrath and scorn . 
Though decidedly shaken by the fall from the tower upon him , Roderigo defied the old gentleman and refused to stir . 
This dauntless example fired Zara . 
She also defied her sire , and he ordered them both to the deepest dungeons of the castle . 
A stout little retainer came in with chains and led them away , looking very much frightened and evidently forgetting the speech he ought to have made . 
Act third was the castle hall , and here Hagar appeared , having come to free the lovers and finish Hugo . 
The servant takes Hugo aside to tell him something , and Hagar changes the cups for two others which are harmless . 
Ferdinando , the minion' , carries them away , and Hagar puts back the cup which holds the poison meant for Roderigo . 
This was a truly thrilling scene , though some persons might have thought that the sudden tumbling down of a quantity of long red hair rather marred the effect of the villain's death . 
He was called before the curtain , and with great propriety appeared , leading Hagar , whose singing was considered more wonderful than all the rest of the performance put together . 
Act fourth displayed the despairing Roderigo on the point of stabbing himself because he has been told that Zara has deserted him . 
A key is thrown in , which unlocks the door , and in a spasm of rapture he tears off his chains and rushes away to find and rescue his lady love . 
Act fifth opened with a stormy scene between Zara and Don Pedro . 
Don Pedro refuses , because he is not rich . 
The latter informs the party that she bequeths untold wealth to the young pair and an awful doom to Don Pedro , if he doesn't make them happy . 
The bag is opened , and several quarts of tin money shower down upon the stage till it is quite glorified with the glitter . 
This entirely softens the stern sire . 
He consents without a murmur , all join in a joyful chorus , and the curtain falls upon the lovers kneeling to receive Don Pedro's blessing in attitudes of the most romantic grace . 
Tumultuous applause followed but received an unexpected check , for the cot bed , on which the dress circle was built , suddenly shut up and extinguished the enthusiastic audience . 
Roderigo and Don Pedro flew to the rescue , and all were taken out unhurt , though many were speechless with laughter . 
the excitement had hardly subsided when Hannah appeared , with Mrs. March's compliments , and would the ladies walk down to supper . 
This was a surprise even to the actors , and when they saw the table , they looked at one another in rapturous amazement . 
It was like Marmee to get up a little treat for them , but anything so fine as this was unheard of since the departed days of plenty . 
It quite took their breath away , and they stared first at the table and then at their mother , who looked as if she enjoyed it immensely . 
Is it fairies ? asked Amy . 
Santa Claus , said Beth . 
And Meg smiled her sweetest , in spite of her gray beard and white eyebrows . 
Aunt March had a good fit and sent the supper , cried Jo , with a sudden inspiration . 
Old Mr. Laurence sent it , replied Mrs. March . 
The Laurence boy's grandfather ! What in the world put such a thing into his head ? We don't know him ! exclaimed Meg . 
Hannah told one of his servants about your breakfast party . 
He is an odd old gentleman , but that pleased him . 
I could not refuse , and so you have a little feast at night to make up for the bread and milk breakfast . 
That boy put it into his head , I know he did ! He's a capital fellow , and I wish we could get acquainted . 
You mean the people who live in the big house next door , don't you ? asked one of the girls . 
My mother knows old Mr. Laurence , but says he's very proud and doesn't like to mix with his neighbors . 
He keeps his grandson shut up , when he isn't riding or walking with his tutor , and makes him study very hard . 
We invited him to our party , but he didn't come . 
Mother says he's very nice , though he never speaks to us girls . 
I mean to know him some day , for he needs fun , I'm sure he does , said Jo decidedly . 
I like his manners , and he looks like a little gentleman , so I've no objection to your knowing him , if a proper opportunity comes . 
He brought the flowers himself , and I should have asked him in , if I had been sure what was going on upstairs . 
He looked so wistful as he went away , hearing the frolic and evidently having none of his own . 
It's a mercy you didn't , Mother ! laughed Jo , looking at her boots . 
But we'll have another play sometime that he can see . 
Wouldn't that be jolly ? I never had such a fine bouquet before ! How pretty it is ! And Meg examined her flowers with great interest . 
But Beth's roses are sweeter to me , said Mrs. March , smelling the half dead posy in her belt . 
Beth nestled up to her , and whispered softly , I wish I could send my bunch to Father . 
I'm afraid he isn't having such a merry Christmas as we are . 
CHAPTER THREE Jo ! Jo ! Where are you ? cried Meg at the foot of the garret stairs . 
As Meg appeared , Scrabble whisked into his hole . 
Jo shook the tears off her cheeks and waited to hear the news . 
Mrs. Gardiner would be happy to see Miss March and Miss Josephine at a little dance on New Year's Eve . 
If I only had a silk ! sighed Meg . 
Mother says I may when I'm eighteen perhaps , but two years is an everlasting time to wait . 
I'm sure our pops look like silk , and they are nice enough for us . 
Yours is as good as new , but I forgot the burn and the tear in mine . 
Whatever shall I do ? The burn shows badly , and I can't take any out . 
You must sit still all you can and keep your back out of sight . 
The front is all right . 
Mine are spoiled with lemonade , and I can't get any new ones , so I shall have to go without , said Jo , who never troubled herself much about dress . 
You must have gloves , or I won't go , cried Meg decidedly . 
Gloves are more important than anything else . 
You can't dance without them , and if you don't I should be so mortified . 
I don't care much for company dancing . 
It's no fun to go sailing round . 
I like to fly about and cut capers . 
You can't ask Mother for new ones , they are so expensive , and you are so careless . 
She said when you spoiled the others that she shouldn't get you any more this winter . 
Can't you make them do ? I can hold them crumpled up in my hand , so no one will know how stained they are . 
That's all I can do . 
No ! I'll tell you how we can manage , each wear one good one and carry a bad one . 
Don't you see ? Your hands are bigger than mine , and you will stretch my glove dreadfully , began Meg , whose gloves were a tender point with her . 
I don't care what people say ! cried Jo , taking up her book . 
You may have it , you may ! Only don't stain it , and do behave nicely . 
Don't put your hands behind you , or stare , or say Christopher Columbus ! will you ? Don't worry about me . 
I'll be as prim ad I can and not get into any scrapes , if I can help it . 
Now go and answer your note , and let me finish this splendid story . 
Meg wanted a few curls about her face , and Jo undertook to pinch the papered locks with a pair of hot tongs . 
Ought they to smoke like that ? asked Beth from her perch on the bed . 
It's the dampness drying , replied Jo . 
What a queer smell ! It's like burned feathers , observed Amy , smoothing her own pretty curls with a superior air . 
There , now I'll take off the papers and you'll see a cloud of little ringlets , said Jo , putting down the tongs . 
Just my luck ! You shouldn't have asked me to do it . 
I'm so sorry , but the tongs were too hot , and so I've made a mess , groaned poor Jo , regarding the little black pancakes with tears of regret . 
Just frizzle it , and tie your ribbon so the ends come on your forehead a bit , and it will look like the last fashion . 
I've seen many girls do it so , said Amy consolingly . 
Serves me right for trying to be fine . 
I wish I'd let my hair alone , cried Meg petulantly . 
So do I , it was so smooth and pretty . 
But it will soon grow out again , said Beth , coming to kiss and comfort the shorn sheep . 
After various lesser mishaps , Meg was finished at last , and by the united exertions of the entire family Jo's hair was got up and her dress on . 
They looked very well in their simple suits , Meg's in silvery drab , with a blue velvet snood , lace frills , and the pearl pin . 
Jo in maroon , with a stiff , gentlemanly linen collar , and a white chrysanthemum or two for her only ornament . 
Each put on one nice light glove , and carried one soiled one , and all pronounced the effect quite easy and fine . 
Have a good time , dearies ! said Mrs. March , as the sisters went daintily down the walk . 
Don't eat much supper , and come away at eleven when I send Hannah for you . 
As the gate clashed behind them , a voice cried from a window . 
Now don't forget to keep the bad breadth out of sight , Jo . 
Is my sash right ? And does my hair look very bad ? said Meg , as she turned from the glass in Mrs. Gardiner's dressing room after a prolonged prink . 
I know I shall forget . 
If you see me doing anything wrong , just remind me by a wink , will you ? returned Jo , giving her collar a twitch and her head a hasty brush . 
No , winking isn't ladylike . 
I'll lift my eyebrows if any thing is wrong , and nod if you are all right . 
Now hold your shoulder straight , and take short steps , and don't shake hands if you are introduced to anyone . 
How do you learn all the proper ways ? I never can . 
Mrs. Gardiner , a stately old lady , greeted them kindly and handed them over to the eldest of her six daughters . 
She telegraphed her wish to Meg , but the eyebrows went up so alarmingly that she dared not stir . 
No one came to talk to her , and one by one the group dwindled away till she was left alone . 
She could not roam about and amuse herself , for the burned breadth would show , so she stared at people rather forlornly till the dancing began . 
Meg was asked at once , and the tight slippers tripped about so briskly that none would have guessed the pain their wearer suffered smilingly . 
Unfortunately , another bashful person had chosen the same refuge , for , as the curtain fell behind her , she found herself face to face with the Laurence boy' . 
Dear me , I didn't know anyone was here ! stammered Jo , preparing to back out as speedily as she had bounced in . 
But the boy laughed and said pleasantly , though he looked a little startled , Don't mind me , stay if you like . 
Shan't I disturb you ? Not a bit . 
I only came here because I don't know many people and felt rather strange at first , you know . 
So did I. Don't go away , please , unless you'd rather . 
The boy sat down again and looked at his pumps , till Jo said , trying to be polite and easy , I think I've had the pleasure of seeing you before . 
You live near us , don't you ? Next door . 
And he looked up and laughed outright , for Jo's prim manner was rather funny when he remembered how they had chatted about cricket when he brought the cat home . 
That put Jo at her ease and she laughed too , as she said , in her heartiest way , We did have such a good time over your nice Christmas present . 
Nicely , thank you , Mr. Laurence . 
But I am not Miss March , I'm only Jo , returned the young lady . 
I'm not Mr. Laurence , I'm only Laurie . 
Laurie Laurence , what an odd name . 
My first name is theodore , but I don't like it , for the fellows called me Dora , so I made the say Laurie instead . 
I hate my name , too , so sentimental ! I wish every one would say Jo instead of Josephine . 
How did you make the boys stop calling you Dora ? I thrashed em . 
I can't thrash Aunt March , so I suppose I shall have to bear it . 
And Jo resigned herself with a sigh . 
Don't you like to dance , Miss Jo ? asked Laurie , looking as if he thought the name suited her . 
I like it well enough if there is plenty of room , and everyone is lively . 
In a place like this I'm sure to upset something , tread on people's toes , or do something dreadful , so I keep out of mischief and let Meg sail about . 
Don't you dance ? Sometimes . 
You see I've been abroad a good many years , and haven't been into company enough yet to know how you do things here . 
Oh , tell me about it ! I love dearly to hear people describe their travels . 
Don't I wish I'd been there ! cried Jo . 
Did you go to Paris ? We spent last winter there . 
Can you talk French ? We were not allowed to speak anything else at Vevay . 
Do say some ! I can read it , but can't pronounce . 
Quel nom a cetter jeune demoiselle en les pantoulles jolis ? How nicely you do it ! Let me see . 
you said , Who is the young lady in the pretty slippers' , didn't you ? Oui , mademoiselle . 
Jo quite glowed with pleasure at this boyish praise of her sister , and stored it up to repeat to Meg . 
Both peeped and critisized and chatted till they felt like old acquaintances . 
I suppose you are going to college soon ? I see you pegging away at your books , no , I mean studying hard . 
And Jo blushed at the dreadful pegging' which had escaped her . 
Laurie smiled but didn't seem shocked , and answered with a shrug . 
Not for a year or two . 
I won't go before seventeen , anyway . 
Aren't you but fifteen ? asked Jo , looking at the tall lad , whom she had imagined seventeen already . 
How I wish I was going to college ! You don't look as if you liked it . 
I hate it ! Nothing but grinding or skylarking . 
And I don't like the way fellows do either , in this country . 
What do you like ? To live in Italy , and to enjoy myself in my own way . 
I can't , for I told meg I wouldn't , because . 
There Jo stopped , and looked undecided whether to tell or to laugh . 
You may laugh , if you want to . 
It is funny , I know . 
He only looked dawn a minute , and the expression of his face puzzled Jo when he said very gently , Never mind that . 
I'll tell you how we can manage . 
There's a long hall out there , and we can dance grandly , and no one will see us . 
Jo thanked him and gladly went , wishing she had two neat gloves when she saw the nice , pearl colored ones her partner wore . 
She beckoned , and Jo reluctantly followed her into a side room , where she found her on a sofa , holding her foot , and looking pale . 
That stupid high heel turned and gave me a sad wrench . 
It aches so , I can hardly stand , and I don't know how I'm ever going to get home , she said , rocking to and fro in pain . 
I knew you'd hurt your feet with those silly shoes . 
But I don't see what you can do , except get a carriage , or stay here all night , answered Jo , softly rubbing the poor ankle as she spoke . 
I can't have a carriage without its costing ever so much . 
I dare say I can't get one at all , for most people come in their own , and it's a long way to the stable , and no one to send . 
No , indeed ! It's past nine , and dark as Egypt . 
I can't stop here , for the house is full . 
Sallie has some girls staying with her . 
I'll rest till Hannah comes , and then do the best I can . 
He will go , said Jo , looking relieved as the idea occurred to her . 
Mercy , no ! Don't ask or tell anyone . 
Get me my rubbers , and put these slippers with our things . 
I can't dance anymore , but as soon as supper is over , watch for Hannah and tell me the minute she comes . 
They are going out to supper now . 
No , dear , run along , and bring me some coffee . 
I'm so tired I can't stir . 
Making a dart at the table , she secured the coffee , which she immediately spilled , thereby making the front of her dress as bad as the back . 
Oh , dear , what a blunderbuss I am ! exclaimed Jo , finishing Meg's glove by scrubbing her gown with it . 
Can I help you ? said a friendly voice . 
And there was Laurie , with a full cup in one hand and a plate of ice in the other . 
Too bad ! I was looking for someone to give this to . 
May I take it to your sister ? Oh , thank you ! I'll show you where she is . 
I don't offer to take it myself , for I should only get into another scrape if I did . 
Meg forgot her foot and rose so quickly that she was forced to catch hold of Jo , with an exclamation of pain . 
Hush ! Don't say anything , she whispered , adding aloud , It's nothing . 
I turned my foot a little , that's all , and limped upstairs to put her things on . 
Hannah scolded , Meg cried , and Jo was at her wits' end , till se decided to take things into her own hands . 
Slipping out , she ran down and , finding a servant , asked if he could get her a carriage . 
It's so early ! You can't mean to go yet ? began Jo . 
looking relieved but hesitating to accept the offer . 
I always go early , I do , truly ! Please let me take you home . 
It's all on my way , you know , and it rains , they say . 
That settled it , and telling him of Meg's mishap , Jo gratefully accepted and rushed up to bring down the rest of the party . 
Hannah hated rain as much as a cat does so she made no trouble , and they rolled away in the luxurious close carriage , feeling very festive and elegant . 
Laurie went on the box so Meg could keep her foot up , and the girls talked over their party in freedom . 
I had a capital time . 
Did you ? asked Jo , rumpling up her hair , and making herself comfortable . 
Yes , till I hurt myself . 
Sallie's friend , Annie Moffat , took a fancy to me , and asked me to come and spend a week with her when Sallie does . 
She is going in the spring when the opera comes , and it will be perfectly splendid , if Mother only lets me go , answered Meg , cheering up at the thought . 
I saw you dancing with the red headed man I ran away from . 
Was he nice ? Oh . 
very ! His hair is auburn , not red , and he was very polite , and I had a delicious redowa with him . 
He looked like a grasshopper in a fit when he did the new step . 
Laurie and I couldn't help laughing . 
Did you hear us ? No , but it was very rude . 
What were you about all that time , hidden away there ? Jo told her adventures , and by the time she had finished they were at home . 
I wish it was Christmas or New Year's all the time . 
Wouldn't it be fun ? answered Jo , yawning dismally . 
We shouldn't enjoy ourselves half so much as we do now . 
But it does seem so nice to have little suppers and bouquets , and go to parties , and drive home , and read and rest , and not work . 
Well , we can't have it , so don't let us grumble but shoulder our bundles and trudge along as cheerfully as Marmee does . 
This idea tickled Jo's fancy and put her in good spirits , but Meg didn't brighten , for her burden , consisting of four spoiled children , seemed heavier than ever . 
She had not heart enough even to make herself pretty as usual by putting on a blue neck ribbon and dressing her hair in the most becoming way . 
It's a shame ! So Meg went down , wearing an injured look , and wasn't at all agreeable at breakfast time . 
Everyone seemed rather out of sorts and inclined to croak . 
Beth had a headache and lay on the sofa , trying to comfort herself with the cat and three kittens . 
Amy was fretting because her lessons were not learned , and she couldn't find her rubbers . 
Jo would whistle and make a great racket getting ready . 
Mrs. March was very busy trying to finish a letter , which must go at once , and Hannah had the grumps , for being up late didn't suit her . 
There never was such a cross family ! cried Jo , losing her temper when she had upset an inkstand , broken both boot lacings , and sat down upon her hat . 
You're the crossest person in it ! returned Amy , washing out the sum that was all wrong with the tears that had fallen on her slate . 
Jo laughed , Meg scolded , Beth implored , and Amy wailed because she couldn't remember how much nine times twelve was . 
There was a momentary lull , broken by Hannah , who stalked in , laid two hot turnovers on the table , and stalked out again . 
These turnovers were an institution , and the girls called them muffs' , for they had no others and found the hot pies very comforting to their hands on cold mornings . 
Hannah never forgot to make them , no matter how busy or grumpy she might be , for the walk was long and bleak . 
The poor things got no other lunch and were seldom home before two . 
Cuddle your cats and get over your headache , Bethy . 
We are a set of rascals this morning , but we'll come home regular angels . 
Now then , Meg ! And Jo tramped away , feeling that the pilgrims were not setting out as they ought to do . 
They always looked back before turning the corner , for their mother was always at the window to nod and smile , and wave her hand to them . 
Don't use such dreadful expressions , replied Meg from the depths of the veil in which she had shrouded herself like a nun sick of the world . 
I like good strong words that mean something , replied Jo , catching her hat as it took a leap off her head preparatory to flying away altogether . 
Call yourself any names you like , but I am neither a rascal nor a wretch and I don't choose to be called so . 
You're a blighted being , and decidedly cross today because you can't sit in the lap of luxury all the time . 
How ridiculous you are , Jo ! But Meg laughed at the nonsense and felt better in spite of herself . 
Lucky for you I am , for if I put on crushed airs and tried to be dismal , as you do , we should be in a nice state . 
Thank goodness , I can always find something funny to keep me up . 
Don't croak any more , but come home jolly , there's a dear . 
When Mr. March lost his property in trying to help an unfortunate friend , the two oldest girls begged to be allowed to do something toward their own support , at least . 
Margaret found a place as nursery governess and felt rich with her small salary . 
As she said , she was fond of luxury' , and her chief trouble was poverty . 
She found it harder to bear than the others because she could remember a time when home was beautiful , life full of ease and pleasure , and want of any kind unknown . 
She tried not to be envious or discontented , but it was very natural that the young girl should long for pretty things , gay friends , accomplishments , and a happy life . 
Jo happened to suit Aunt March , who was lame and needed an active person to wait upon her . 
The childless old lady had offered to adopt one of the girls when the troubles came , and was much offended because her offer was declined . 
Other friends told the Marches that they had lost all chance of being remembered in the rich old lady's will , but the unworldly Marches only said . 
We can't give up our girls for a dozen fortunes . 
Rich or poor , we will keep together and be happy in one another . 
This did not suit Jo at all , but she accepted the place since nothing better appeared and , to every one's surprise , got on remarkably well with her irascible relative . 
I suspect that the real attraction was a large library of fine books , which was left to dust and spiders since Uncle March died . 
Jo's ambition was to do something very splendid . 
It had been tried , but she suffered so much that it was given up , and she did her lessons at home with her father . 
She was a housewifely little creature , and helped Hannah keep home neat and comfortable for the workers , never thinking of any reward but to be loved . 
Long , quiet days she spent , not lonely nor idle , for her little world was peopled with imaginary friends , and she was by nature a busy bee . 
There were six dolls to be taken up and dressed every morning , for Beth was a child still and and loved her pets as well as ever . 
Beth cherished them all the more tenderly for that very reason , and set up a hospital for infirm dolls . 
If anyone had known the care lavished on that dolly , I think it would have touched their hearts , even while they laughed . 
Nobody did , however , and nobody saw Beth wipe the tears off the yellow keys , that wouldn't keep in tune , when she was all alone . 
If anybody had asked Amy what the greatest trial of her life was , she would have answered at once , My nose . 
When she was a baby , Jo had accidently dropped her into the coal hod , and Amy insisted that the fall had ruined her nose forever . 
It was not big nor red , like poor Petrea's' , it was only rather flat , and all the pinching in the world could not give it an aristocratic point . 
She got through her lessons as well as she could , and managed to escape reprimands by being a model of deportment . 
She was a great favorite with her mates , being good tempered and possessing the happy art of pleasing without effort . 
Amy was in a fair way to be spoiled , for everyone petted her , and her small vanities and selfishnesses were growing nicely . 
One thing , however , rather quenched the vanities . 
She had to wear her cousin's clothes . 
My only comfort , she said to Meg , with tears in her eyes , is that Mother doesn't take tucks in my dresses whenever I'm naughty , as Maria Parks's mother does . 
My dear , it's really dreadful , for sometimes she is so bad her frock is up to her knees , and she can't come to school . 
When I think of this deggerredation , I fell that I can bear even my flat nose and purple gown with yellow skyrockets on it . 
Meg was Amy's confidante and monitor , and by some strange attraction of opposites Jo was gentle Beth's . 
To Jo alone did the shy child tell her thoughts , and over her big harum scarum sister Beth unconsciously exercised more influence than anyone in the family . 
Has anybody got anything to tell ? It's been such a dismal day I'm really dying for some amusement , said Meg , as they sat sewing together that evening . 
I wish I could , and be done with it , said I , trying not to be saucy . 
Then she gave me a long lecture on my sins , and told me to sit and think them over while she just lost' herself for a moment . 
I'd just got to where they all tumbled into the water when I forgot and laughed out loud . 
Aunt woke up and , being more good natured after her nap , told me to read a bit and show what frivolous work I preferred to the worthy and instructive Belsham . 
I did my very best , and she liked it , though she only said . 
I don't understand what it's all about . 
Go back and begin it , child . 
Back I went , and made the Primroses as interesting as ever I could . 
Once I was wicked enough to stop in a thrilling place , and say meekly , I'm afraid it tires you , ma'am . 
Did she own she liked it ? asked Meg . 
That reminds me , said Meg , that I've got something to tell . 
It isn't funny , like Jo's story , but I thought about it a good deal as I came home . 
At the Kings' today I found everybody in a flurry , and one of the children said that her oldest brother had done something dreadful , and Papa had sent him away . 
I didn't ask any questions , of course , but I felt so sorry for them and was rather glad I hadn't any wild brothers to do wicked things and disgrace the family . 
Susie Perkins came to school today with a lovely red carnelian ring . 
I wanted it dreadfully , and wished I was her with all my might . 
We were laughing over it when all of a sudden his eye was on us , and he ordered Susie to bring up her slate . 
Didn't the girls laugh at the picture ? asked Jo , who relished the scrape . 
Laugh ? Not one ! They sat still as mice , and Susie cried quarts , I know she did . 
I didn't envy her then , for I felt that millions of carnelian rings wouldn't have made me happy after that . 
I never , never should have got over such a agonizing mortification . 
And Amy went on with her work , in the proud consciousness of virtue and the successful utterance of two long words in a breath . 
She was so glad and surprised she took it right into her arms , and thanked him over and over . 
It was not a wise thing to do , but I kept on worrying till an old man came in with an order for some clothes . 
He sat down near me , and I began to talk to him , for he looked poor and tired and anxious . 
Have you sons in the army ? I asked , for the note he brought was not to me . 
I had four , but two were killed , one is a prisoner , and I'm going to the other , who is very sick in a Washington hospital . 
You have done a great deal for your country , sir , I said , feeling respect now , instead of pity . 
Not a mite more than I ought , ma'am . 
I'd go myself , if I was any use . 
As I ain't , I give my boys , and give 'em free . 
He spoke so cheerfully , looked so sincere , and seemed so glad to give his all , that I was ashamed of myself . 
I'd given one man and thought it too much , while he gave four without grudging them . 
Tell another story , Mother , one with a moral to it , like this . 
I like to think about them afterward , if they are real and not too preachy , said Jo , after a minute's silence . 
Mrs. March smiled and began at once , for she had told stories to this little audience for many years , and knew how to please them . 
So they asked an old woman what spell they could use to make them happy , and she said , When you feel discontented , think over your blessings , and be grateful . 
Being sensible girls , they decided to try her advice , and soon were surprised to see how well off they were . 
Now , Marmee , that is very cunning of you to turn our own stories against us , and give us a sermon instead of a romance ! cried Meg . 
I like that kind of sermon . 
It's the sort Father used to tell us , said Beth thoughtfully , putting the needles straight on Jo's cushion . 
I don't complain near as much as the others do , and I shall be more careful than ever now , for I've had warning from Susies's downfall , said Amy morally . 
We needed that lesson , and we won't forget it . 
CHAPTER FIVE What in the world are you going to do now , Jo . 
Going out for exercise , answered Jo with a mischievous twinkle in her eyes . 
Never take advice ! Can't keep still all day , and not being a pussycat , I don't like to doze by the fire . 
I like adventures , and I'm going to find some . 
Meg went back to toast her feet and read IVANHOE , and Jo began to dig paths with great energy . 
Now , the garden separated the Marches' house from that of Mr. Laurence . 
Both stood in a suburb of the city , which was still countrylike , with groves and lawns , large gardens , and quiet streets . 
A low hedge parted the two estates . 
To Jo's lively fancy , this fine house seemed a kind of enchanted palace , full of splendors and delights which no one enjoyed . 
That boy is suffering for society and fun , she said to herself . 
His grandpa does not know what's good for him , and keeps him shut up all alone . 
He needs a party of jolly boys to play with , or somebody young and lively . 
I've a great mind to go over and tell the old gentleman so ! The idea amused Jo . 
who liked to do daring things and was always scandalizing Meg by her queer performances . 
The plan of going over' was not forgotten . 
And when the snowy afternoon came , Jo resolved to try what could be done . 
She saw Mr. Lawrence drive off , and then sallied out to dig her way down to the hedge , where she paused and took a survey . 
All quiet , curtains down at the lower windows , servants out of sight , and nothing human visible but a curly black head leaning on a thin hand at the upper window . 
There he is , thought Jo , Poor boy ! All alone and sick this dismal day . 
It's a shame ! I'll toss up a snowball and make him look out , and then say a kind word to him . 
Jo nodded and laughed , and flourished her broom as she called out . 
How do you do ? Are you sick ? Laurie opened the window , and croaked out as hoarsely as a raven . 
I've had a bad cold , and been shut up a week . 
What do you amuse yourself with ? Nothing . 
It's dull as tombs up here . 
Don't you read ? Not much . 
Can't somebody read to you ? Grandpa does sometimes , but my books don't interest him , and I hate to ask Brooke all the time . 
Have someone come and see you then . 
There isn't anyone I'd like to see . 
Boys make such a row , and my head is weak . 
Isn't there some nice girl who'd read and amuse you ? Girls are quiet and like to play nurse . 
You know us , began Jo , then laughed and stopped . 
So I do ! Will you come , please ? cried Laurie . 
I'm not quiet and nice , but I'll come , if Mother will let me . 
Shut the window , like a good boy , and wait till I come . 
With that , Jo shouldered her broom and marched into the house , wondering what they would all say to her . 
Laurie was in a flutter of excitement at the idea of having company , and flew about to get ready , for as Mrs. March said , he was a little gentleman' . 
Presently there came a loud ring , than a decided voice , asking for Mr. laurie' , and a surprised looking servant came running up to announce a young lady . 
Here I am , bag and baggage , she said briskly . 
Mother sent her love , and was glad if I could do anything for you . 
Meg wanted me to bring some of her blancmange , she makes it very nicely , and Beth thought her cats would be comforting . 
I knew you'd laugh at them , but I couldn't refuse , she was so anxious to do something . 
It so happened that Beth's funny loan was just the thing , for in laughing over the kits , Laurie forgot his bashfulness , and grew sociable at once . 
It isn't anything , only they all felt kindly and wanted to show it . 
Tell the girl to put it away for your tea . 
It's so simple you can eat it , and being soft , it will slip down without hurting your sore throat . 
What a cozy room this is ! It might be it it was kept nice , but the maids are lazy , and I don't know how to make them mind . 
Now then , you're fixed . 
And so he was , for , as she laughed and talked , Jo had whisked things into place and given quite a different air to the room . 
Laurie watched her in respectful silence , and when she beckoned him to his sofa , he sat down with a sigh of satisfaction , saying gratefully . 
How kind you are ! Yes , that's what it wanted . 
Now please take the big chair and let me do something to amuse my company . 
No , I came to amuse you . 
Shall I read aloud ? and Jo looked affectionately toward some inviting books near by . 
Thank you ! I've read all those , and if you don't mind , I'd rather talk , answered Laurie . 
I'll talk all day if you'll only set me going . 
Beth says I never know when to stop . 
Is Beth the rosy one , who stays at home good deal and sometimes goes out with a little basket ? asked Laurie with interest . 
She's my girl , and a regular good one she is , too . 
I beg your pardon for being so rude , but sometimes you forget to put down the curtain at the window where the flowers are . 
And when the lamps are lighted , it's like looking at a picture to see the fire , and you all around the table with your mother . 
Her face is right opposite , and it looks so sweet behind the flowers , I can't help watching it . 
I haven't got any mother , you know . 
And Laurie poked the fire to hide a little twitching of the lips that he could not control . 
The solitary , hungry look in his eyes went straight to Jo's warm heart . 
she had been so simply taught that there was no nonsense in her head , and at fifteen she was as innocent and frank as any child . 
Laurie was sick and lonely , and feeling how rich she was in home and happiness , she gladly tried to share it with him . 
Her face was very friendly and her sharp voice unusually gentle as she said . 
We'll never draw that curtain any more , and I give you leave to look as much as you like . 
I just wish , though , instead of peeping , you'd come over and see us . 
Mother is so splendid , she'd do you heaps of good , and Beth would sing to you if I begged her to , and Amy would dance . 
Meg and I would make you laugh over our funny stage properties , and we'd have jolly times . 
Wouldn't your grandpa let you ? I think he would , if your mother asked him . 
We are not strangers , we are neighbors , and you needn't think you'd be a bother . 
We want to know you , and I've been trying to do it this ever so long . 
We haven't been here a great while , you know , but we have got acquainted with all our neighbors but you . 
You see , Grandpa lives among his books , and doesn't mind much what happens outside . 
You ought to make an effort and go visiting everywhere you are asked , then you'll have plenty of friends , and pleasant places to go to . 
It won't last long if you keep going . 
Don't go to school , I'm a businessman girl , I mean . 
I go to wait on my great aunt , and a dear , cross old soul she is , too , answered Jo . 
Oh ! That does me no end of good . 
Tell on , please , he said , taking his face out of the sofa cushion , red and shining with merriment . 
Then they got to talking about books , and to Jo's delight , she found that Laurie loved them as well as she did , and had read even more than herself . 
If you like them so much , come down and see ours . 
Grandfather is out , so you needn't be afraid , said Laurie , getting up . 
I'm not afraid of anything , returned Jo , with a toss of the head . 
The atmosphere of the whole house being summerlike , Laurie led the way from room to room , letting Jo stop to examine whatever struck her fancy . 
And so , at last they came to the library , where she clapped her hands and pranced , as she always did when especially delighted . 
What richness ! sighed Jo , sinking into the depth of a velour chair and gazing about her with an air of intense satisfaction . 
Theodore Laurence , you ought to be the happiest boy in the world , she added impressively . 
A fellow can't live on books , said Laurie , shaking his head as he perched on a table opposite . 
I think I am a little bit afraid of him , but I don't know why I should be . 
Marmee said I might come , and I don't think you're any the worse for it , said Jo , composing herself , though she kept her eyes on the door . 
I'm a great deal better for it , and ever so much obliged . 
I'm only afraid you are very tired of talking to me . 
It was so pleasant , I couldn't bear to stop , said Laurie gratefully . 
The doctor to see you , sir , and the maid beckoned as she spoke . 
Would you mind if I left you for a minute ? I suppose I must see him , said Laurie . 
I'm happy as a cricket here , answered Jo . 
Laurie went away , and his guest amused herself in her own way . 
He isn't as handsome as my grandfather , but I like him . 
Thank you , ma'am , said a gruff voice behind her , and there , to her great dismay , stood old Mr. Laurence . 
Poor Jo blushed till she couldn't blush any redder , and her heart began to beat uncomfortably fast as she thought what she had said . 
The gruff voice was gruffer than ever , as the old gentleman said abruptly , after the dreadful pause , So you're not afraid of me , hey ? Not much , sir . 
And you don't think me as handsome as your grandfather ? Not quite , sir . 
And I've got a tremendous will , have I ? I only said I thought so . 
But you like me in spite of it ? Yes , I do , sir . 
That answer pleased the old gentleman . 
He was a fine man , my dear , but what is better , he was a brave and an honest one , and I was proud to be his friend . 
Thank you , sir , And Jo was quite comfortable after that , for it suited her exactly . 
What have you been doing to this boy of mine , hey ? was the next question , sharply put . 
Only trying to be neighborly , sir . 
And Jo to how her visit came about . 
You think he needs cheering up a bit , do you ? Yes , sir , he seems a little lonely , and young folks would do him good perhaps . 
We are only girls , but we should be glad to help if we could , for we don't forget the splendid Christmas present you sent us , said Jo eagerly . 
Tut , tut , tut ! That was the boy's affair . 
How is the poor woman ? Doing nicely , sir . 
And off went Jo , talking very fast , as she told all about the Hummels , in whom her mother had interested richer friends than they were . 
Just her father's way of doing good . 
I shall come and see your mother some fine day . 
There's the tea bell , we have it early on the boy's account . 
Come down and go on being neighborly . 
If you'd like to have me , sir . 
Shouldn't ask you , if I didn't . 
And Mr. Laurence offered her his arm with old fashioned courtesy . 
What would Meg say to this ? thought Jo , as she was marched away , while her eyes danced with fun as she imagined herself telling the story at home . 
I didn't know you'd come , sir , he began , as Jo gave him a triumphant little glance . 
That's evident , by the way you racket downstairs . 
Come to your tea , sir , and behave like a gentleman . 
There was color , light , and life in the boy's face now , vivacity in his manner , and genuine merriment in his laugh . 
She's right , the lad is lonely . 
I'll see what these little girls can do for him , thought Mr. Laurence , as he looked and listened . 
He liked Jo , for her odd , blunt ways suited him , and she seemed to understand the boy almost as well as if she had been one herself . 
If the Laurences had been what Jo called prim and poky' , she would not have got on at all , for such people always made her shy and awkward . 
But finding them free and easy , she was so herself , and made a good impression . 
They found Mr. Laurence standing before the fire in the great drawing room , by Jo's attention was entirely absorbed by a grand piano , which stood open . 
Do you play ? she asked , turning to Laurie with a respectful expression . 
Sometimes , he answered modestly . 
I want to hear it , so I can tell Beth . 
Won't you first ? Don't know how . 
Too stupid to learn , but I love music dearly . 
So Laurie played and Jo listened , with her nose luxuriously buried in heliotrope and tea roses . 
Her respect and regard for the Laurence' boy increased very much , for he played remarkably well and didn't put on any airs . 
She wished Beth could hear him , but she did not say so , only praised him till he was quite abashed , and his grandfather came to his rescue . 
That will do , that will do , young lady . 
too many sugarplums are not good for him . 
His music isn't bad , but I hope he will do as well in more important things . 
Going ? well , I'm much obliged to you , and I hope you'll come again . 
My respects to your mother . 
Good night , Doctor Jo . 
He shook hands kindly , but looked as if something did not please him . 
When they got into the hall , Jo asked Laurie if she had said something amiss . 
No , it was me . 
He doesn't like to hear me play . 
Why not ? I'll tell you some day . 
John is going home with you , as I can't . 
I am not a young lady , and it's only a step . 
Take care of yourself , won't you ? Yes , but you will come again , I hope ? If you promise to come and see us after you are well . 
Mrs. March wanted to talk of her father with the old man who had not forgotten him , Meg longed to walk in the conservatory , Beth sighed for the grand piano . 
and Amy was eager to see the fine pictures and statues . 
Mother , why didn't Mr. Laurence like to have Laurie play ? asked Jo , who was of an inquiring disposition . 
The lady was good and lovely and accomplished , but he did not like her , and never saw his son after he married . 
They both died when Laurie was a little child , and then his grandfather took him home . 
I fancy the boy , who was born in Italy , is not very strong , and the old man is afraid of losing him , which makes him so careful . 
Laurie comes naturally by his love of music , for he is like his mother , and I dare say his grandfather fears that he may want to be a musician . 
At any rate , his skill reminds him of the woman he did not like , and so he glowered' as Jo said . 
Dear me , how romantic ! exclaimed Meg . 
How silly ! said Jo . 
Let him be a musician if he wants to , and not plague his life out sending him to college , when he hates to go . 
That's why he has such handsome black eyes and pretty manners , I suppose . 
Italians are always nice , said Meg , who was a little sentimental . 
What do you know about his eyes and his manners ? You never spoke to him , hardly , cried Jo , who was not sentimental . 
I saw him at the party , and what you tell shows that he knows how to behave . 
That was a nice little speech about the medicine Mother sent him . 
He meant the blanc mange , I suppose . 
How stupid you are , child ! He meant you , of course . 
Did he ? And Jo opened her eyes as if it had never occurred to her before . 
I never saw such a girl ! You don't know a compliment when you get it , said Meg , with the air of a young lady who knew all about the matter . 
I think they are great nonsense , and I'll thank you not to be silly and spoil my fun . 
Laurie's a nice boy and I like him , and I won't have any sentimental stuff about compliments and such rubbish . 
I don't call myself a child , and I'm not in my teens yet , observed Amy . 
What do you say , Beth ? I was thinking about our PILGRIM'S PROGRESS' , answered Beth , who had not heard a word . 
We have got to get by the lions first , said Jo , as if she rather liked the prospect . 
CHAPTER SIX The big house did prove a Palace Beautiful , though it took some time for all to get in , and Beth found it very hard to pass the lions . 
The other lion was the fact that they were poor and Laurie rich , for this made them shy of accepting favors which they could not return . 
So they soon forgot their pride and interchanged kindnesses without stopping to think which was the greater . 
All sorts of pleasant things happened about that time , for the new friendship flourished like grass in spring . 
Every one liked Laurie , and he privately informed his tutor that the Marches were regularly splendid girls . 
Never mind , let him take a holiday , and make it up afterward , said the old gentleman . 
The good lady next door says he is studying too hard and needs young society , amusement , and exercise . 
I suspect she is right , and that I've been coddling the fellow as if I'd been his grandmother . 
Let him do what he likes , as long as he is happy . 
He can't get into mischief in that little nunnery over there , and Mrs. March is doing more for him than we can . 
What good times they had , to be sure . 
Such plays and tableaux , such sleigh rides and skating frolics , such pleasant evenings in the old parlor , and now and then such gay little parties at the great house . 
But Beth , though yearning for the grand piano , could not pluck up courage to go to the Mansion of Bliss' , as Meg called it . 
No persuasions or enticements could overcome her fear , till , the fact coming to Mr. Laurence's ear in some mysterious way , he set about mending matters . 
At the back of his chair she stopped and stood listening , with her great eyes wide open and her cheeks red with excitement of this unusual performance . 
Taking no more notice of her than if she had been a fly , Mr. Laurence talked on about Laurie's lessons and teachers . 
And presently , as if the idea had just occurred to him , he said to Mrs. March . 
The boy neglects his music now , and I'm glad of it , for he was getting too fond of it . 
But the piano suffers for want of use . 
Before Mrs. March could reply , Mr. Laurence went on with an odd little nod and smile . 
They needn't see or speak to anyone , but run in at any time . 
Here he rose , as if going , and Beth made up her mind to speak , for that last arrangement left nothing to be desired . 
Please , tell the young ladies what I say , and if they don't care to come , why , never mind . 
Here a little hand slipped into his , and Beth looked up at him with a face full of gratitude , as she said , in her earnest yet timid way . 
Oh sir , they do care , very very much ! Are you the musical girl ? he asked , without any startling Hey ! as he looked down at her very kindly . 
Not a soul , my dear . 
The house is empty half the day , so come and drum away as much as you like , and I shall be obliged to you . 
The old gentleman softly stroked the hair off her forehead , and , stooping down , he kissed herr , saying , in a tone few people ever heard . 
I had a little girl once , with eyes like these . 
God bless you , my dear ! Good day . 
And away he went , in a great hurry . 
Beth had a rapture with her mother , and then rushed up to impart the glorious news to her family of invalids , as the girls were not home . 
How blithely she sang that evening , and how they all laughed at her because she woke Amy in the night by playing the piano on her face in her sleep . 
She stayed till Hannah came to take her home to dinner , but she had no appetite , and could only sit and smile upon everyone in a general state of beatitude . 
After that , the little brown hood slipped through the hedge nearly every day , and the great drawing room was haunted by a tuneful spirit that came and went unseen . 
She never knew that Mr. Laurence opened his study door to hear the old fashioned airs he liked . 
She never saw Laurie mount guard in the hall to warn the servants away . 
So she enjoyed herself heartily , and found , what isn't always the case , that her granted wish was all she had hoped . 
Perhaps it was because she was so grateful for this blessing that a greater was given her . 
At any rate she deserved both . 
Mother , I'm going to work Mr. Laurence a pair of slippers . 
He is so kind to me , I must thank him , and I don't know any other way . 
Can I do it ? asked Beth , a few weeks after that eventful call of his . 
It will please him very much , and be a nice way of thanking him . 
After many serious discussions with Meg and Jo , the pattern was chosen , the materials bought , and the slippers begun . 
A cluster of grave yet cheerful pansies on a deeper purple ground was pronounced very appropriate and pretty , and beth worked away early and late , with occasional lifts over hard parts . 
She was a nimble little needlewoman , and they were finished before anyone got tired of them . 
Then she wrote a short , simple note , and with Laurie's help , got them smuggled onto the study table one morning before the old gentleman was up . 
When this excitement was over , Beth waited to see what would happen . 
All day passed a a part of the next before any acknowledgement arrived , and she was beginning to fear she had offended her crochety friend . 
On the afternoon of the second day , she went out to do an errand , and give poor Joanna , the invalid doll , her daily exercise . 
Here's a letter from the old gentleman ! Come quick , and read it ! Oh , Beth , he's sent you . 
began Amy , gesticulating with unseemly energy , but she got no further , for Jo quenched her by slamming down the window . 
Beth hurried on in a flutter of suspense . 
For me ? gasped Beth , holding onto Jo and feeling as if she should tumble down , it was such an overwhelming thing altogether . 
Yes , all for you , my precious ! Isn't it splendid of him ? Don't you think he's the dearest old man in the world ? Here's the key in the letter . 
We didn't open it , but we are dying to know what he says , cried Jo , hugging her sister and offering the note . 
You read it ! I can't , I feel so queer ! Oh , it is too lovely ! and Beth hid her face in Jo's apron , quite upset by her present . 
Jo opened the paper and began to laugh , for the first worked she saw were . 
Miss March Dear Madam How nice it sounds ! I wish someone would write to me so ! said Amy , who thought the old fashioned address very elegant . 
I have had many pairs of slippers in my life , but I never had any that suited me so well as yours , continues Jo . 
Heartsease is my favorite flower , and these will always remind me of the gentle giver . 
I like to pay my debts , so I know you will allow the old gentleman' to send you something which once belonged to the little grand daughter he lost . 
Just think , he's given you her piano . 
That comes of having big blue eyes and loving music , said Jo , trying to soothe Beth , who trembled and looked more excited than she had ever been before . 
Your humble servant , James Laurence' . 
Only think of his writing that to you . 
They'll think it's splendid , said Amy , much impressed by the note . 
Let's hear the sound of the baby pianny , said Hannah , who always took a share in the family joys and sorrows . 
So Beth tried it , and everyone pronounced it the most remarkable piano ever heard . 
You'll have to go and thank him , said Jo , by way of a joke , for the idea of the child's really going never entered her head . 
Yes , I mean to . 
I guess I'll go no , before I get frightened thinking about it . 
And , to the utter amazement of the assembled family , Beth walked deliberately down the garden , through the hedge , and in at the Laurences' door . 
They would have been still more amazed if they had seen what Beth did afterward . 
If the roof of the house had suddenly flown off , the old gentleman wouldn't have been more astonished . 
CHAPTER SEVEN That boy is a perfect cyclops , isn't he ? said Amy one day , as Laurie clattered by on horseback , with a flourish of his whip as he passed . 
How dare you say so , when he's got both his eyes ? And very handsome ones they are , too , cried Jo , who resented any slighting remarks about her friend . 
I didn't day anything about his eyes , and I don't see why you need fire up when I admire his riding . 
Oh , my goodness ! That little goose means a centaur , and she called him a Cyclops , exclaimed Jo , with a burst of laughter . 
You needn't be so rude , it's only a lapse of lingy' , as Mr. Davis says , retorted Amy , finishing Jo with her Latin . 
I just wish I had a little of the money Laurie spends on that horse , she added , as if to herself , yet hoping her sisters would hear . 
Why ? asked Meg kindly , for Jo had gone off in another laugh at Amy's second blunder . 
I need it so much . 
I'm dreadfully in debt , and it won't be my turn to have the rag money for a month . 
In debt , Amy ? What do you mean ? And Meg looked sober . 
Tell me all about it . 
Are limes the fashion now ? It used to be pricking bits of rubber to make balls . 
And Meg tried to keep her countenance , Amy looked so grave and important . 
Why , you see , the girls are always buying them , and unless you want to be thought mean , you must do it too . 
If one girl likes another , she gives her a lime . 
If she's mad with her , she eats one before her face , and doesn't offer even a suck . 
They treat by turns , and I've had ever so many but haven't returned them , and I ought for they are debts of honor , you know . 
How much will pay them off and restore your credit ? asked Meg , taking out her purse . 
A quarter would more than do it , and leave a few cents over for a treat for you . 
Don't you like limes ? Not much . 
You may have my share . 
Make it last as long as you can , for it isn't very plenty , you know . 
Oh , thank you ! It must be so nice to have pocket money ! I'll have a grand feast , for I haven't tasted a lime this week . 
I felt delicate about taking any , as I couldn't return them , and I'm actually suffering for one . 
and was going to treat circulated through her set' , and the attentions of her friends became quite overwhelming . 
Katy Brown invited her to her next party on the spot . 
But , alas , alas ! Pride goes before a fall , and the revengeful Snow turned the tables with disastrous success . 
Now Mr. Davis had declared limes a contraband article , and solemnly vowed to publicly ferrule the first person who was found breaking the law . 
Boys are trying enough to human patience , goodness knows , but girls are infinitely more so , especially to nervous gentlemen with tyrannical tempers and no more talent for teaching than Dr . 
It was a most unfortunate moment for denouncing Amy , and Jenny knew it . 
Therefore , to use the expressive , if not elegant , language of a schoolgirl , He was as nervous as a witch and as cross as a bear . 
The word limes' was like fire to powder , his yellow face flushed , and he rapped on his desk with an energy which made Jenny skip to her seat with unusual rapidity . 
Miss March , come to the desk . 
Amy rose to comply with outward composure , but a secret fear oppressed her , for the limes weighed upon her conscience . 
Bring with you the limes you have in your desk , was the unexpected command which arrested her before she got out of her seat . 
whispered her neighbor , a young lady of great presence of mind . 
Amy hastily shook out half a dozen and laid the rest down before Mr. Davis , feeling that any man possessing a human heart would relent when that delicious perfume met his nose . 
Unfortunately , Mr. Davis particularly detested the odor of the fashionable pickle , and disgust added to his wrath . 
Is that all ? Not quite , stammered Amy . 
With a despairing glance at her set , she obeyed . 
You are sure there are no more ? I never lie , sir . 
Now take these disgusting things two by two , and throw them out of the window . 
There was a simultaneous sigh , which created quite a little gust , as the last hope fled , and the treat was ravished from their longing lips . 
This this was too much . 
All flashed indignant or appealing glances at the inexorable Davis , and one passionate lime lover burst into tears . 
As Amy returned from her last trip , Mr. Davis gave a portentous Hem ! and said , in his most impressive manner . 
Young ladies , you remember what I said to you a week ago . 
I am sorry this has happened , but I never allow my rules to be infringed , and I never break my word . 
Miss March , hold out your hand . 
Amy started , and put both hands behind her , turning on him an imploring look which pleaded for her better than the words she could not utter . 
That hiss , faint as it was , irritated the irascible gentleman , and sealed the culprit's fate . 
They were neither many nor heavy , but that made no difference to her . 
For the first time in her life she had been struck , and the disgrace , in her eyes , was as deep as if he had knocked her down . 
You will now stand on the platform till recess , said Mr. Davis , resolved to do the thing thoroughly , since he had begun . 
During the fifteen minutes that followed , the proud and sensitive little girl suffered a shame and pain which she never forgot . 
You can go , Miss March , said Mr. Davis , looking , as he felt , uncomfortable . 
She was in a sad state when she got home , and when the older girls arrived , some time later , an indignation meeting was held at once . 
Mrs. March did not say much but looked disturbed , and comforted her afflicted little daughter in her tenderest manner . 
No notice was taken of Amy's flight , except by her mates , but the sharp eyed demoiselles discovered that Mr. Davis was quite benignant in the afternoon , also unusually nervous . 
Yes , you can have a vacation from school , but I want you to study a little every day with Beth , said Mrs. March that evening . 
I don't approve of corporal punishment , especially for girls . 
That's good ! I wish all the girls would leave , and spoil his old school . 
It's perfectly maddening to think of those lovely limes , sighed Amy , with the air of a martyr . 
Do you mean you are glad I was disgraced before the whole school ? cried Amy . 
I should not have chosen that way of mending a fault , replied her mother , but I'm not sure that it won't do you more good than a molder method . 
You are getting to be rather conceited , my dear , and it is quite time you set about correcting it . 
You have a good many little gifts and virtues , but there is no need of parading them , for conceit spoils the finest genius . 
So it is ! cried Laurie , who was playing chess in a corner with Jo . 
I wish I'd known that nice girl . 
Maybe she would have helped me , I'm so stupid , said Beth , who stood beside him , listening eagerly . 
Jo let Laurie win the game to pay for that praise of her Beth , who could not be prevailed upon to play for them after her compliment . 
So Laurie did his best , and sang delightfully , being in a particularly lively humor , for to the Marches he seldom showed the moody side of his character . 
He will make a fine man , if not spoiled by petting , replied her mother . 
And he isn't conceited , is he ? asked Amy . 
That is why he is so charming and we all like him so much . 
It's nice to have accomplishments and be elegant , but not to show off or get perked up , said Amy thoughtfully . 
These things are always seen and felt in a person's manner and conversations , if modestly used , but it is not necessary to display them , said Mrs. March . 
Little girls shouldn't ask questions , returned Jo sharply . 
Amy bridled up at this insult , and determined to find out the secret , if she teased for an hour . 
I can't , dear , because you aren't invited , began Meg , but Jo broke in impatiently , Now , Meg , be quiet or you will spoil it all . 
You can't go , Amy , so don't be a baby and whine about it . 
You are going somewhere with Laurie , I know you are . 
You were whispering and laughing together on the sofa last night , and you stopped when I came in . 
Aren't you going with him ? Yes , we are . 
Now do be still , and stop bothering . 
Amy held her tongue , but used her eyes , and saw Meg slip a fan into her pocket . 
Just listen to me a minute , and be a good child , said Meg soothingly . 
Mother doesn't wish you to go this week , because your eyes are not well enough yet to bear the light of this fairy piece . 
Next week you can go with Beth and Hannah , and have a nice time . 
I don't like that half as well as going with you and Laurie . 
I've been sick with this cold so long , and shut up , I'm dying for some fun . 
Do , Meg ! I'll be ever so good , pleaded Amy , looking as pathetic as she could . 
I don't believe Mother would mind , if we bundle her up well , began Meg . 
I should think she'd hate to poke herself where she isn't wanted , said Jo crossly , for she disliked the trouble of overseeing a fidgety child when she wanted to enjoy herself . 
Her tone and manner angered Amy , who began to put her boots on , saying , in her most aggravating way , I shall go . 
Meg says I may , and if I pay for myself , Laurie hasn't anything to do with it . 
You can't sit with us , for our seats are reserved , and you mustn't sit alone , so Laurie will give you his place , and that will spoil our pleasure . 
Or he'll get another seat for you , and that isn't proper when you weren't asked . 
You shan't stir a step , so you may just stay where you are , scolded Jo , crosser than ever , having just pricked her finger in her hurry . 
For now and then she forgot her grown up ways and acted like a spoiled child . 
Just as the party was setting out , Amy called over the banisters in a threatening tone , You'll be sorry for this , Jo March , see if you ain't . 
Fiddlesticks ! returned Jo , slamming the door . 
They had a charming time , for THE SEVEN CASTLES OF THE DIAMOND LAKE was as brilliant and wonderful as heart could wish . 
But in spite of the comical red imps , sparkling elves , and the gorgeous princes and princesses , Jo's pleasure had a drop of bitterness in it . 
The fairy queen's yellow curls reminded her of Amy , and between the acts she amused herself with wondering what her sister would do to make her sorry for it' . 
She and Amy had had many lively skirmishes in the course of their lives , for both had quick tempers and were apt to be violent when fairly roused . 
Amy teased Jo , and Jo irritated Amy , and semioccasional explosions occurred , of which both were much ashamed afterward . 
Although the oldest , Jo had the least self control , and had hard times trying to curb the fiery spirit which was continually getting her into trouble . 
Her anger never lasted long , and having humbly confessed her fault , she sincerely repented and tried to do better . 
Her sisters used to say that they rather liked to get Jo into a fury because she was such an angel afterward . 
Poor Jo tried desperately to be good , but her bosom enemy was always ready to flame up and defeat her , and it took years of patient effort to subdue it . 
When they got home , they found amy reading in the parlor . 
She assumed an injured air as they came in , never lifted her eyes from her book , or asked a single question . 
Perhaps curiosity might have conquered resentment , if Beth had not been there to inquire and receive a glowing description of the play . 
Everything was in its place , however , and after a hasty glance into her various closets , bags , and boxes , Jo decided that Amy had forgiven and forgotten her wrongs . 
There Jo was mistaken , for next day she made a discovery which produced a tempest . 
Amy poked the fire and said nothing . 
Jo saw her color rise and was down upon her in a minute . 
Amy , you've got it ! No , I haven't . 
You know where it is , then ! No , I don't . 
That's a fib ! cried Jo , taking her by the shoulders , and looking fierce enough to frighten a much braver child than Amy . 
I haven't got it , don't know where it is now , and don't care . 
You know something about it , and you'd better tell at once , or I'll make you . 
And Jo gave her a slight shake . 
Scold as much as you like , you'll never see your silly old book again , cried Amy , getting excited in her turn . 
why not ? I burned it up . 
Yes , I did ! I told you I'd make you pay for being so cross yesterday , and I have , so . 
Amy got no farther , for Jo's hot temper mastered her , and she shook Amy till her teeth chattered in her head , crying in a passion of grief and anger . 
You wicked , wicked girl ! I never can write it again , and I'll never forgive you as long as I live . 
The storm cleared up below , for Mrs. March came home , and , having heard the story , soon brought Amy to a sense of the wrong she had done her sister . 
Jo's book was the pride of her heart , and was regarded by her family as a literary sprout of great promise . 
She had just copied them with great care , and had destroyed the old manuscript , so that Amy's bonfire had consumed the loving work of several years . 
It seemed a small loss to others , but to Jo it was a dreadful calamity , and she felt that it never could be made up to her . 
Beth mourned as for a departed kitten , and Meg refused to defend her pet . 
Mrs. March looked grave and grieved , and Amy felt that no one would love her till she had asked pardon for the act which she now regretted more than any of them . 
When the tea bell rang , Jo appeared , looking so grim and unapproachable that it took all Amy's courage to say meekly . 
Please forgive me , Jo . 
I'm very , very sorry . 
I never shall forgive you , was Jo's stern answer , and from that moment she ignored Amy entirely . 
They felt this most when singing time came , for Beth could only play , Jo stood dumb as a stone , and Amy broke down , so Meg and Mother sang alone . 
But in spite of their efforts to be as cheery as larks , the flutelike voices did not seem to chord as well as usual , and all felt out of tune . 
As Jo received her good night kiss , Mrs. March whispered gently , My dear , don't let the sun go down upon your anger . 
Forgive each other , help each other , and begin again tomorrow . 
So she winked hard , shook her head , and said gruffly because Amy was listening , It was an abominable thing , and she doesn't deserve to be forgiven . 
With that she marched off to bed , and there was no merry or confidential gossip that night . 
Jo still looked like a thunder cloud , and nothing went well all day . 
Everybody is so hateful , I'll ask Laurie to go skating . 
He is always kind and jolly , and will put me to rights , I know , said Jo to herself , and off she went . 
Amy heard the clash of skates , and looked out with an impatient exclamation . 
There ! She promised I should go next time , for this is the last ice we shall have . 
But it's no use to ask such a crosspatch to take me . 
I'll try , said Amy , for the advice suited her , and after a flurry to get ready , she ran after the friends , who were just disappearing over the hill . 
It was not far to the river , but both were ready before Amy reached them . 
Jo saw her coming , and turned her back . 
Laurie did not see , for he was carefully skating along the shore , sounding the ice , for a warm spell had preceded the cold snap . 
She had cherished her anger till it grew strong and took possession of her , as evil thoughts and feelings always do unless cast out at once . 
As Laurie turned the bend , he shouted back . 
It isn't safe in the middle . 
Jo heard , but Amy was struggling to her feet and did not catch a word . 
Jo glanced over her shoulder , and the little demon she was harboring said in her ear . 
No matter whether she heard or not , let her take care of herself . 
Laurie had vanished round the bend , Jo was just at the turn , and Amy , far behind , striking out toward the the smoother ice in the middle of the river . 
She tried to call Laurie , but her voice was gone . 
Something rushed swiftly by her , and Laurie's voice cried out . 
Now then , we must walk her home as fast as we can . 
Shivering , dripping , and crying , they got Amy home , and after an exciting time of it , she fell asleep , rolled in blankets before a hot fire . 
When Amy was comfortably asleep , the house quiet , and Mrs. March sitting by the bed , she called Jo to her and began to bind up the hurt hands . 
Are you sure she is safe ? whispered Jo , looking remorsefully at the golden head , which might have been swept away from her sight forever under the treacherous ice . 
she is not hurt , and won't even take cold , I think , you were so sensible in covering and getting her home quickly , replied her mother cheerfully . 
I only let her go . 
Mother , if she should die , it would be my fault . 
It's my dreadful temper ! I try to cure it , I think I have , and then it breaks out worse than ever . 
OH , Mother , what shall I do ? What shall I do ? cried poor Jo , in despair . 
You don't know , you can't guess how bad it is ! It seems as if I could do anything when I'm in a passion . 
I get so savage , I could hurt anyone and enjoy it . 
I'm afraid I shall do something dreadful some day , and spoil my life , and make everybody hate me . 
Oh , Mother , help me , do help me ! I will , my child , I will . 
Don't cry so bitterly , but remember this day , and resolve with all your soul that you will never know another like it . 
Jo , dear , we all have our temptations , some far greater than yours , and it often takes us all our lives to conquer them . 
You think your temper is the worst in the world , but mine used to be just like it . 
Yours , Mother ? Why , you are never angry ! And for the moment Jo forgot remorse in surprise . 
I've been trying to cure it for forty years , and have only succeeded in controlling it . 
The patience and the humility of the face she loved so well was a better lesson to Jo than the wisest lecture , the sharpest reproof . 
She felt comforted at once by the sympathy and confidence given her . 
Tell me how you do it , Marmee dear . 
My good mother used to help me . 
interrupted Jo , with a grateful kiss . 
I had a hard time , Jo , and shed a good many bitter tears over my failures , for in spite of my efforts I never seemed to get on . 
Then your father came , and I was so happy that i found it easy to be good . 
Poor Mother ! What helped you then ? Your father , Jo . 
He never loses patience , never doubts or complains , but always hopes , and works and waits so cheerfully that one is ashamed to do otherwise before him . 
He helped and comforted me , and showed me that I must try to practice all the virtues I would have my little girls possess , for I was their example . 
It was easier to try for your sakes than for my own . 
Oh , Mother , if I'm ever half as good as you , I shall be satisfied , cried Jo , much touched . 
You have had a warning . 
Remember it , and try with heart and soul to master this quick temper , before it brings you greater sorrow and regret than you have known today . 
I will try , Mother , I truly will . 
But you must help me , remind me , and keep me from flying out . 
Was he reminding you then ? asked Jo softly . 
I asked him to help me so , and he never forgot it , but saved me from many a sharp word by that little gesture and kind look . 
I thought I'd grieved you . 
I gave my best to the country I love , and kept my tears till he was gone . 
The more you love and trust Him , and the less you will depend on human power and wisdom . 
His love and care never tire or change , can never be taken from you , but my become the source of lifelong peace , happiness , and strength . 
Believe this heartily , and go to God with all your little cares , and hopes , and sins , and sorrows , as freely and confidingly as you come to your mother . 
Jo's only answer was to hold her mother close , and in the silence which followed the sincerest prayer she had ever prayed left her heart without words . 
I let the sun go down on my anger . 
As if she heard , Amy opened her eyes , and held out her arms , with a smile that went straight to Jo's heart . 
Neither said a word , but they hugged one another close , in spite of the blankets , and everything was forgiven and forgotten in one hearty kiss . 
And so nice of Annie Moffat not to forget her promise . 
A whole fortnight of fun will be regularly splendid , replied Jo , looking like a windmill as she folded skirts with her long arms . 
And such lovely weather , I'm so glad of that , added Beth , tidily sorting neck and hair ribbons in her best box , lent for the great occasion . 
I wish I was going to have a fine time and wear all these nice things , said Amy with her mouth full of pins , as she artistically replenished her sister's cushion . 
I wish you were all going , but as you can't , I shall keep my adventures to tell you when I come back . 
A pair of silk stockings , that pretty carved fan , and a lovely blue sash . 
I wanted the violet silk , but there isn't time to make it over , so I must be contented with my old tarlatan . 
It will look nice over my new muslin skirt , and the sash will set it off beautifully . 
It isn't low necked , and it doesn't sweep enough , but it will have to do . 
My blue housedress looks so well , turned and freshly trimmed , that I feel as if I'd got a new one . 
My silk sacque isn't a bit the fashion , and my bonnet doesn't look like Sallie's . 
I didn't like to say anything , but I was sadly disappointed in my umbrella . 
I told Mother black with a white handle , but she forgot and bought a green one with a yellowish handle . 
Change it , advised Jo . 
I won't be so silly , or hurt Marmee's feelings , when she took so much pains to get my things . 
It's a nonsensical notion of mine , and I'm not going to give up to it . 
My silk stockings and two pairs of new gloves are my comfort . 
You are a dear to lend me yours , Jo . 
I feel so rich and sort of elegant , with two new pairs , and the old ones cleaned up for common . 
And Meg took a refreshing peep at her glove box . 
Annie Moffat has blue and pink bows on her nightcaps . 
Would you put some on mine ? she asked , as Beth brought up a pile of snowy muslins , fresh from Hannah's hands . 
No , I wouldn't , for the smart caps won't match the plain gowns without any trimming on them . 
Poor folks shouldn't rig , said Jo decidedly . 
I wonder if I shall ever be happy enough to have real lace on my clothes and bows on my caps ? said Meg impatiently . 
You said the other day that you'd be perfectly happy if you could only go to Annie Moffat's , observed Beth in her quiet way . 
The next day was fine , and Meg departed in style for a fortnight of novelty and pleasure . 
Mrs. March had consented to the visit rather reluctantly , fearing that Margaret would come back more discontented than she went . 
The Moffats were very fashionable , and simple Meg was rather daunted , at first , by the splendor of the house and the elegance of its occupants . 
But they were kindly people , in spite of the frivolous life they led , and soon put their guest at her ease . 
It certainly was agreeable to fare sumptuously , drive in a fine carriage , wear her best frock every day , and do nothing but enjoy herself . 
The more she saw of Annie Moffat's pretty things , the more she envied her and sighed to be rich . 
She had not much time for repining , however , for the three young girls were busily employed in having a good time' . 
Her older sisters were very fine young ladies , and one was engaged , which was extremely interesting and romantic , Meg thought . 
Everyone petted her , and Daisey' , as they called her , was in a fair way to have her head turned . 
So out came the tarlatan , looking older , limper , and shabbier than ever beside Sallie's crisp new one . 
Meg saw the girls glance at it and then at one another , and her cheeks began to burn , for with all her gentleness she was very proud . 
The hard , bitter feeling was getting pretty bad , when the maid brought in a box of flowers . 
Before she could speak , Annie had the cover off , and all were exclaiming at the lovely roses , heath , and fern within . 
It's for Belle , of course , George always sends her some , but these are altogether ravishing , cried Annie , with a great sniff . 
They are for Miss March , the man said . 
And here's a note , put in the maid , holding it to Meg . 
What fun ! Who are they from ? Didn't know you had a lover , cried the girls , fluttering about Meg in a high state of curiosity and surprise . 
The note is from Mother , and the flowers from Laurie , said Meg simply , yet much gratified that he had not forgotten her . 
She enjoyed herself very much that evening , for she danced to her heart's content . 
Everyone was very kind , and she had three compliments . 
Annie made her sing , and some one said she had a remarkably fine voice . 
So altogether she had a very nice time , till she overheard a bit of conversation , which disturbed her extremely . 
She was sitting just inside the conservatory , waiting for her partner to bring her an ice , when she heard a voice ask on the other side of the flowery wall . 
How old is he ? Sixteen or seventeen , I should say , replied another voice . 
It would be a grand thing for one of those girls , wouldn't it ? Sallie says they are very intimate now , and the old man quite dotes on them . 
Mrs. M. has made her plans , I dare say , and will play her cards well , early as it is . 
The girl evidently doesn't think of it yet , said Mrs. Moffat . 
She told that fib about her momma , as if she did know , and colored up when the flowers came quite prettily . 
Poor thing ! She'd be so nice if she was only got up in style . 
Do you think she'd be offended if we offered to lend her a dress for Thursday ? asked another voice . 
She's proud , but I don't believe she'd mind , for that dowdy tarlatan is all she has got . 
She may tear it tonight , and that will be a good excuse for offering a decent one . 
Here Meg's partner appeared , to find her looking much flushed and rather agitated . 
She was proud , and her pride was useful just then , for it helped her hide her mortification , anger , and disgust at what she had just heard . 
For , innocent and unsuspicious as she was , she could not help understanding the gossip of her friends . 
As that was impossible , she did her best to seem gay , and being rather excited , she succeeded so well that no one dreamed what an effort she was making . 
Her innocent friendship with Laurie was spoiled by the silly speeches she had overheard . 
Everybody dawdled that morning , and it was noon before the girls found energy enough even to take up their worsted work . 
Something in the manner of her friends struck Meg at once . 
They treated her with more respect , she thought , took quite a tender interest in what she said , and looked at her with eyes that plainly betrayed curiosity . 
All this surprised and flattered her , though she did not understand it till Miss Belle looked up from her writing , and said , with a sentimental air . 
Daisy , dear , I've sent an invitation to your friend , Mr. Laurence , for Thursday . 
We should like to know him , and it's only a proper compliment to you . 
Meg colored , but a mischievous fancy to tease the girls made her reply demurely , You are very kind , but I'm afraid he won't come . 
Why not , Cherie ? asked Miss Belle . 
My child , what do you mean ? What is his age , I beg to know ! cried Miss Clara . 
Nearly seventy , I believe , answered Meg , counting stitches to hide the merriment in her eyes . 
You sly creature ! Of course we meant the young man , exclaimed Miss Belle , laughing . 
There isn't any , Laurie is only a little boy . 
And Meg laughed also at the queer look which the sisters exchanged as she thus described her supposed lover . 
About you age , Nan said . 
Nearer my sister Jo's , I am seventeen in August , returned Meg , tossing her head . 
It's very nice of him to send you flowers , isn't it ? said Annie , looking wise about nothing . 
Yes , he often does , to all of us , for their house is full , and we are so fond of them . 
My mother and old Mr. Laurence are friends , you know , so it is quite natural that we children should play together . 
And Meg hoped they would say no more . 
It's evident Daisy isn't out yet , said Miss Clara to Belle with a nod . 
Quite a pastoral state of innocence all round , returned Miss Belle with a shrug . 
I'm going out to get some little matters for my girls . 
Can I do anything for you , young ladies ? asked Mrs. Moffat , lumbering in like an elephant in silk and lace . 
No , thank you , ma'am , replied Sallie . 
I've got my new pink silk for Thursday and don't want a thing . 
began Meg , but stopped because it occurred to her that she did want several things and could not have them . 
What shall you wear ? asked Sallie . 
Why don't you send home for another ? said Sallie , who was not an observing young lady . 
I haven't got any other . 
It cost Meg an effort to say that , but Sallie did not see it and exclaimed in amiable surprise , Only that ? How funny . 
She did not finish her speech , for Belle shook her head at her and broke in , saying kindly . 
Now do let me please myself by dressing you up in style . 
I admire to do it , and you'd be a regular little beauty with a touch here and there . 
I shan't let anyone see you till you are done , and then we'll burst upon them like Cinderella and her godmother going to the ball , said Belle in her persuasive tone . 
On the Thursday evening , Belle shut herself up with her maid , and between them they turned Meg into a fine lady . 
They laced her into a sky blue dress , which was so tight she could hardly breathe and so low in the neck that modest Meg blushed at herself in the mirror . 
A set of silver filagree was added , bracelets , necklace , brooch , and even earrings , for Hortense tied them on with a bit of pink silk which did not show . 
Mademoiselle is chatmante , tres jolie , is she not ? cried Hortense , clasping her hands in an affected rapture . 
Come and show yourself , said Miss Belle , leading the way to the room where the others were waiting . 
While I dress , do you drill her , Nan , in the management of her skirt and those French heels , or she will trip herself up . 
You don't look a bit like yourself , but you are very nice . 
I'm nowhere beside you , for Belle has heaps of taste , and you're quite French , I assure you . 
Let your flowers hang , don't be so careful of them , and be sure you don't trip , returned Sallie , trying not to care that Meg was prettier than herself . 
Keeping that warning carefully in mind , Margaret got safely downstairs and sailed into the drawing rooms where the Moffats and a few early guests were assembled . 
She very soon discovered that there is a charm about fine clothes which attracts a certain class of people and secures their respect . 
Several young ladies , who had taken no notice of her before , were very affectionate all of a sudden . 
She heard Mrs. Moffat reply to one of them . 
To complete her confusion , she saw Belle nudge Annie , and both glance from her to Laurie , who , she was happy to see , looked unusually boyish and shy . 
Silly creatures , to put such thoughts into my head . 
I won't care for it , or let it change me a bit , thought Meg , and rustled across the room to shake hands with her friend . 
I'm glad you came , I was afraid you wouldn't . 
she said , with her most grown up air . 
What shall you tell her ? asked Meg , full of curiosity to know his opinion of her , yet feeling ill at ease with him for the first time . 
I shall say I didn't know you , for you look so grown up and unlike yourself , I'm quite afraid of you , he said , fumbling at his glove button . 
How absurd of you ! The girls dressed me up for fun , and I rather like it . 
Wouldn't Jo stare if she saw me ? said Meg , bent on making him say whether he thought her improved or not . 
Yes , I think she would , returned Laurie gravely . 
Don't you like me so ? asked Meg . 
No , I don't , was the blunt reply . 
Why not ? in an anxious tone . 
I don't like fuss and feathers . 
That was altogether too much from a lad younger than herself , and Meg walked away , saying petulantly , You are the rudest boy I ever saw . 
Feeling very much ruffled , she went and stood at a quiet window to cool her cheeks , for the tight dress gave her an uncomfortably brilliant color . 
As she stood there , Major Lincoln passed by , and a minute after she heard him saying to his mother . 
They are making a fool of that little girl . 
I wanted you to see her , but they have spoiled her entirely . 
She's nothing but a doll tonight . 
Oh , dear ! sighed Meg . 
I wish I'd been sensible and worn my own things , then I should not have disgusted other people , or felt so uncomfortable and ashamed of myself . 
Please forgive my rudeness , and come and dance with me . 
I'm afraid it will be to disagreeable to you , said Meg , trying to look offended and failing entirely . 
Not a bit of it , I'm dying to do it . 
Come , I'll be good . 
I don't like your gown , but I do think you are just splendid . 
And he waved his hands , as if words failed to express his admiration . 
Meg smiled and relented , and whispered as they stood waiting to catch the time , Take care my skirt doesn't trip you up . 
It's the plague of my life and I was a goose to wear it . 
Pin it round your neck , and then it will be useful , said Laurie , looking down at the little blue boots , which he evidently approved of . 
Won't I ! said Laurie , with alacrity . 
Please don't tell them at home about my dress tonight . 
They won't understand the joke , and it will worry Mother . 
Then why did you do it ? said Laurie's eyes , so plainly that Meg hastily added . 
I shall tell them myself all about it , and fess' to Mother how silly I've been . 
But I'd rather do it myself . 
I'll say the first with all my heart , but how about the other ? You don't look as if you were having a good time . 
Are you ? And Laurie looked at her with an expression which made her answer in a whisper . 
No , not just now . 
I only wanted a little fun , but this sort doesn't pay , I find , and I'm getting tired of it . 
What does he want ? said Laurie , knitting his black brows as if he did not regard his young host in the light of a pleasant addition to the party . 
He put his name down for three dances , and I suppose he's coming for them . 
What a bore ! said Meg , assuming a languid air which amused Laurie immensely . 
You'll have a splitting headache tomorrow , if you drink much of that . 
I'm not Meg tonight , I'm a doll' who does all sorts of crazy things . 
Tomorrow I shall put away my fuss and feathers' and be desperately good again , se answered with an affected little laugh . 
Wish tomorrow was here , then , muttered Laurie , walking off , ill pleased at the change he saw in her . 
Meg danced and flirted , chattered and giggled , as the other girls did . 
But he got no chance to deliver it , for Meg kept away from him till he came to say good night . 
Remember ! she said , trying to smile , for the splitting headache had already begun . 
Silence a la mort , replied Laurie , with a melodramatic flourish , as he went away . 
It does seem pleasant to be quiet , and not have company manners on all the time . 
For motherly eyes are quick to see any change in children's faces . 
As the clock struck nine and Jo proposed bed , Meg suddenly left her chair and , taking Beth's stool , leaned her elbows on her mother's knee , saying bravely . 
Marmee , I want to fess' . 
What is it , dear ? Shall I go away ? asked Jo discreetly . 
We are prepared , said Mrs. March , smiling but looking a little anxious . 
I told you they dressed me up , but I didn't tell you that they powdered and squeezed and frizzled , and made me look like a fashion plate . 
Laurie thought I wasn't proper . 
I know he did , though he didn't say so , and one man called me a doll' . 
I knew it was silly , but they flattered me and said I was a beauty , and quantities of nonsense , so I let them make a fool of me . 
No , I drank champagne and romped and tried to flirt , and was altogether abominable , said Meg self reproachfully . 
There is something more , I think . 
And Mrs. March smoothed the soft cheek , which suddenly grew rosy as Meg answered slowly . 
It's very silly , but I want to tell it , because I hate to have people say and think such things about us and Laurie . 
Well , if that isn't the greatest rubbish I ever heard , cried Jo indignantly . 
Why didn't you pop out and tell them so on the spot ? I couldn't , it was so embarrassing for me . 
I couldn't help hearing at first , and then I was so angry and ashamed , I didn't remember that I ought to go away . 
Just wait till I see Annie Moffat , and I'll show you how to settle such ridiculous stuff . 
If you tell Laurie , I'll never forgive you ! She mustn't , must she , Mother ? said Meg , looking distressed . 
No , never repeat that foolish gossip , and forget it as soon as you can , said Mrs. March gravely . 
I am more sorry than I can express for the mischief this visit may have done you , Meg . 
Don't be sorry , I won't let it hurt me . 
I'll forget all the bad and remember only the good , for I did enjoy a great deal , and thank you very much for letting me go . 
I'll not be sentimental or dissatisfied , Mother . 
I know I'm a silly little girl , and I'll stay with you till I'm fit to take care of myself . 
But it is nice to be praised and admired , and I can't help saying I like it , said Meg , looking half ashamed of the confession . 
That is perfectly natural , and quite harmless , if the liking does not become a passion and lead one to do foolish or unmaidenly things . 
Learn to know and value the praise which is worth having , and to excite the admiration of excellent people by being modest as well as pretty , Meg . 
And Jo felt as if during that fortnight her sister had grown up amazingly , and was drifting away from her into a world where she could not follow . 
Mother , do you have plans' , as Mrs. Moffat said ? asked Meg bashfully . 
Yes , my dear , I have a great many , all mothers do , but mine differ somewhat from Mrs. Moffat's , I suspect . 
I will tell you some of them , for the time has come when a word may set this romantic little head and heart of yours right , on a very serious subject . 
You are young , Meg , but not too young to understand me , and mothers' lips are the fittest to speak of such things to girls like you . 
Jo , your turn will come in time , perhaps , so listen to my plans' and help me carry them out , if they are good . 
Jo went and sat on one arm of the chair , looking as if she thought they were about to join in some very solemn affair . 
Holding a hand of each , and watching the two young faces wistfully , Mrs. March said , in her serious yet cheery way . 
I want my daughters to be beautiful , accomplished , and good . 
To be admired , loved , and respected . 
To be loved and chosen by a good man is the best and sweetest thing which can happen to a woman , and I sincerely hope my girls may know this beautiful experience . 
I'd rather see you poor men's wives , if you were happy , beloved , contented , than queens on thrones , without self respect and peace . 
Poor girls don't stand any chance , Belle says , unless they put themselves forward , sighed Meg . 
Then we'll be old maids , said Jo stoutly . 
Better be happy old maids than unhappy wives , or unmaidenly girls , running about to find husbands , said Mrs. March decidedly . 
Don't be troubled , Meg , poverty seldom daunts a sincere lover . 
Some of the best and most honored women I know were poor girls , but so love worthy that they were not allowed to be old maids . 
Leave these things to time . 
Make this home happy , so that you may be fit for homes of your own , if they are offered you , and contented here if they are not . 
One thing remember , my girls . 
We will , Marmee , we will ! cried both , with all their hearts , as she bade them good night . 
CHAPTER TEN As spring came on , a new set of amusements became the fashion , and the lengthening days gave long afternoons for work and play of all sorts . 
The garden had to be put in order , and each sister had a quarter of the little plot to do what she liked with . 
Meg's had roses and heliotrope , myrtle , and a little orange tree in it . 
Jo's bed was never alike two seasons , for she was always trying experiments . 
This year it was to be a plantation of sun flowers , the seeds of which cheerful land aspiring plant were to feed Aunt Cockle top and her family of chicks . 
At seven o'clock , the four members ascended to the clubroom , tied their badges round their heads , and took their seats with great solemnity . 
We all are here in perfect health , None gone from our small band Again we see each well known face , And press each friendly hand . 
Our Pickwick , always at his post , With reverence we greet , As , spectacles on nose , he reads Our well filled weekly sheet . 
Although he suffers from a cold , We joy to hear him speak , For words of wisdom from him fall , In spite of croak or squeak . 
Old six foot Snodgrass looms on high , With elephantine grace , And beams upon the company , With brown and jovial face . 
Poetic fire lights up his eye , He struggles 'gainst his lot . 
Behold ambition on his brow , And on his nose , a blot . 
Next our peaceful Tupman comes , So rosy , plump , and sweet , Who chokes with laughter at the puns , And tumbles off his seat . 
Prim little Winkle too is here , With every hair in place , A model of propriety , Though he hates to wash his face . 
The year is gone , we still unite To joke and laugh and read , And tread the path of literature That doth to glory lead . 
Long may our paper prosper well , Our club unbroken be , And coming years their blessings pour On the useful , gay P. C. . 
Gondola after gondola swept up to the marble steps , and left its lovely load to swell the brilliant throng that filled the stately halls of Count Adelon . 
Knights and ladies , elves and pages , monks and flower girls , all mingled gaily in the dance . 
Sweet voices and rich melody filled the air , and so with mirth and music the masquerade went on . 
Has your Highness seen the Lady viola tonight ? asked a gallant troubadour of the fairy queen who floated down the hall upon his arm . 
Yes , is she not lovely , though so sad ! Her dress is well chosen , too , for in a week she weds Count Antonio , whom she passionately hates . 
By my faith , I envy him . 
Yonder he comes , arrayed like a bridegroom , except the black mask . 
When that is off we shall see how he regards the fair maid whose heart he cannot win , though her stern father bestows her hand , returned the troubadour . 
Tis whispered that she loves the young English artist who haunts her steps , and is spurned by the old Count , said the lady , as they joined the dance . 
The revel was at its height when a priest appeared , and withdrawing the young pair to an alcove , hung with purple velvet , he motioned them to kneel . 
Father , we wait your services . 
All eyes turned toward the bridal party , and a murmur of amazement went through the throng , for neither bride nor groom removed their masks . 
Curiosity and wonder possessed all hearts , but respect restrained all tongues till the holy rite was over . 
Then the eager spectators gathered round the count , demanding an explanation . 
Gladly would I give it if I could , but I only know that it was the whim of my timid Viola , and I yielded to it . 
Now , my children , let the play end . 
Unmask and receive my blessing . 
My lord , you scornfully bade me claim your daughter when I could boast as high a name and vast a fortune as the Count antonio . 
S. PICKWICK Why is the P. C. like the Tower of Babel ? It is full of unruly members . 
THE HISTORY OF A SQUASH Once upon a time a farmer planted a little seed . 
in his garden , and after a while it sprouted and became a vine and bore many squashes . 
One day in October , when they were ripe , he picked one and took it to market . 
A gorcerman bought and put it in his shop . 
That same morning , a little girl in a brown hat and blue dress , with a round face and snub nose , went and bought it for her mother . 
She lugged it home , cut it up , and boiled it in the big pot , mashed some of it salt and butter , for dinner . 
If our young friend studied punctuation , it would be well . 
A SAD ACCIDENT On Friday last , we were startled by a violent shock in our basement , followed by cries of distress . 
On rushing in a body to the cellar , we discovered our beloved President prostrate upon the floor , having tripped and fallen while getting wood for domestic purposes . 
On being removed from this perilous situation , it was discovered that he had suffered no injury but several bruises , and we are happy to add , is now doing well . 
THE PUBLIC BEREAVEMENT It is our painful duty to record the sudden and mysterious disappearance of our cherished friend , Mrs. Snowball Pat Paw . 
When last seen , she was sitting at the gate , watching the butcher's cart , and it is feared that some villain , tempted by her charms , basely stole her . 
We mourn the loss of our little pet , And sigh o'er her hapless fate , For never more by the fire she'll sit , Nor play by the old green gate . 
The little grave where her infant sleeps Is 'neath the chestnut tree . 
But o'er her grave we may not weep , We know not where it may be . 
Her empty bed , her idle ball , Will never see her more No gentle tap , no loving purr Is heard at the parlor door . 
Another cat comes after her mice , A cat with a dirty face , But she does not hunt as our darling did , Nor play with her airy grace . 
Her stealthy paws tread the very hall Where Snowball used to play , But she only spits at the dogs our pet So gallantly drove away . 
A weekly meeting will be held at Kitchen place , to teach young ladies how to cook . 
Hannah Brown will preside , and all are invited to attend . 
The DUSTPAN SOCIETY will meet on Wednesday next , and parade in the upper story of the Club House . 
All members to appear in uniform and shoulder their brooms at nine precisely . 
Mrs. Beth Bouncer will open her new assortment of Doll's Millinery next week . 
The latest Paris fashions have arrived , and orders are respectfully solicited . 
A new play will appear at the Barnville Theatre , in the course of a few weeks , which will surpass anything ever seen on the American stage . 
The Greek Slave , or Constantine the Avenger , is the name of this thrilling drama . 
! ! ! HINTS If S. P. didn't use so much soap on his hands , he wouldn't always be late at breakfast . 
A. S. is requested not to whistle in the street . 
T. T please don't forget Amy's napkin . 
N. W. must not fret because his dress has not nine tucks . 
, a round of applause followed , and then Mr. Snodgrass rose to make a proposition . 
I propose Mr. Theodore Laurence as an honorary member of the P. C. Come now , do have him . 
Jo's sudden change of tone made the girls laugh , but all looked rather anxious , and no one said a word as Snodgrass took his seat . 
We'll put it to a vote , said the President . 
All in favor of this motion please to manifest it by saying , Aye' . 
Contrary minded say , No' . 
Meg and Amy were contrary minded , and Mr. Winkle rose to say with great elegance , We don't wish any boys , they only joke and bounce about . 
This is a ladies' club , and we wish to be private and proper . 
I'm afraid he'll laugh at our paper , and make fun of us afterward , observed Pickwick , pulling the little curl on her forehead , as she always did when doubtful . 
Up rose Snodgrass , very much in earnest . 
Sir , I give you my word as a gentleman , Laurie won't do anything of the sort . 
This artful allusion to benefits conferred brought Tupman to his feet , looking as if he had quite made up his mind . 
Yes , we ought to do it , even if we are afraid . 
I say he may come , and his grandpa , too , if he likes . 
This spirited burst from Beth electrified the club , and Jo left her seat to shake hands approvingly . 
Now then , vote again . 
Everybody remember it's our Laurie , and say , Aye ! cried Snodgrass excitedly . 
Aye ! Aye ! Aye ! replied three voices at once . 
Good ! Bless you ! Now , as there's nothing like taking time by the fetlock' , as Winkle characteristically observes , allow me to present the new member . 
The coolness of you two rascals is amazing , began Mr. Pickwick , trying to get up an awful frown and only succeeding in producing an amiable smile . 
Good ! Good ! cried Jo , pounding with the handle of the old warming pan on which she leaned . 
I planned it , and she only gave in after lots of teasing . 
Come now , don't lay it all on yourself . 
You know I proposed the cupboard , broke in Snodgrass , who was enjoying the joke amazingly . 
Never mind what she says . 
I'm the wretch that did it , sir , said the new member , with a Welleresque nod to Mr. Pickwick . 
But on my honor , I never will do so again , and henceforth devote myself to the interest of this immortal club . 
Hear ! Hear ! cried Jo , clashing the lid of the warming pan like a cymbal . 
Go on , go on ! added Winkle and Tupman , while the President bowed benignly . 
It's the old martin house , but I've stopped up the door and made the roof open , so it will hold all sorts of things , and save our valuable time . 
Letters , manuscripts , books , and bundles can be passed in there , and as each nation has a key , it will be uncommonly nice , I fancy . 
Allow me to present the club key , and with many thanks for your favor , take my seat . 
Great applause as Mr. Weller deposited a little key on the table and subsided , the warming pan clashed and waved wildly , and it was some time before order could be restored . 
A long discussion followed , and everyone came out surprising , for everyone did her best . 
So it was an unusually lively meeting , and did not adjourn till a late hour , when it broke up with three shrill cheers for the new member . 
No one ever regretted the admittance of Sam Weller , for a more devoted , well behaved , and jovial member no club could have . 
Jo regarded them as worthy of Bacon , Milton , or Shakespeare , and remodeled her own works with good effect , she thought . 
The P. O. was a capital little institution , and flourished wonderfully , for nearly as many queer things passed through it as through the real post office . 
Tragedies and cravats , poetry and pickles , garden seeds and long letters , music and gingerbread , rubbers , invitations , scoldings , and puppies . 
How they laughed when the secret came out , never dreaming how many love letters that little post office would hold in the years to come . 
CHAPTER ELEVEN The first of June ! The Kings are off to the seashore tomorrow , and I'm free . 
Aunt March went today , for which , oh , be joyful ! said Jo . 
I was mortally afraid she'd ask me to go with her . 
I did actually run , and whisked round the corner whee I felt safe . 
Poor old Jo ! She came in looking as if bears were after her , said Beth , as she cuddled her sister's feet with a motherly air . 
Aunt March is a regular samphire , is she not ? observed Amy , tasting her mixture critically . 
She means vampire , not seaweed , but it doesn't matter . 
It's too warm to be particular about one's parts of speech , murmured Jo . 
What shall you do all your vacation ? asked Amy , changing the subject with tact . 
I shall lie abed late , and do nothing , replied Meg , from the depths of the rocking chair . 
I've been routed up early all winter and had to spend my days working for other people , so now I'm going to rest and revel to my heart's content . 
No , said Jo , that dozy way wouldn't suit me . 
I've laid in a heap of books , and I'm going to improve my shining hours reading on my perch in the old apple tree , when I'm not having l . 
Don't say larks ! implored Amy , as a return snub for the samphire' correction . 
I'll say nightingales' then , with Laurie . 
That's proper and appropriate , since he's a warbler . 
Don't let us do any lessons , Beth , for a while , but play all the time and rest , as the girls mean to , proposed Amy . 
Well , I will , if Mother doesn't mind . 
I want to learn some new songs , and my children need fitting up for the summer . 
They are dreadfully out of order and really suffering for clothes . 
May we , Mother ? asked Meg , turning to Mrs. March , who sat sewing in what they called Marmee's corner' . 
You may try your experiment for a week and see how you like it . 
I think by Saturday night you will find that all play and no work is as bad as all work and no play . 
Oh , dear , no ! It will be delicious , I'm sure , said Meg complacently . 
I now propose a toast , as my friend and pardner , Sairy Gamp' , says . 
Fun forever , and no grubbing ! cried Jo , rising , glass in hand , as the lemonade went round . 
They all drank it merrily , and began the experiment by lounging for the rest of the day . 
Next morning , Meg did not appear till ten o'clock . 
Nothing was neat and pleasant but Marmee's corner' , which looked as usual . 
And there Meg sat , to rest and read' , which meant to yawn and imagine what pretty summer dresses she would get with her salary . 
Jo spent the morning on the river with Laurie and the afternoon reading and crying over The Wide , Wide World , up in the apple tree . 
As no one appeared but an inquisitive daddy longlegs , who examined her work with interest , she went to walk , got caught in a shower , and came home dripping . 
At teatime they compared notes , and all agreed that it had been a delightful , though unusually long day . 
Jo had burned the skin off her nose boating , and got a raging headache by reading too long . 
But these were mere trifles , and they assured their mother that the experiment was working finely . 
She smiled , said nothing , and with Hannah's help did their neglected work , keeping home pleasant and the domestic machinery running smoothly . 
It was astonishing what a peculiar and uncomfortable state of things was produced by the resting and reveling' process . 
Beth got on pretty well , for she was constantly forgetting that it was to be all play and no work , and fell back into her old ways now and then . 
She didn't like dolls , fairy tales were childish , and one couldn't draw all the time . 
Tea parties didn't amount to much neither did picnics unless very well conducted . 
No one would own that they were tired of the experiment , but by Friday night each acknowledged to herself that she was glad the week was nearly done . 
When they got up on Saturday morning , there was no fire in the kitchen , no breakfast in the dining room , and no mother anywhere to be seen . 
Mercy on us ! What has happened ? cried Jo , staring about her in dismay . 
Meg ran upstairs and soon came back again , looking relieved but rather bewildered , and a little ashamed . 
Mother isn't sick , only very tired , and she says she is going to stay quietly in her room all day and let us do the best we can . 
It's a very queer thing for her to do , she doesn't act a bit like herself . 
But she says it has been a hard week for her , so we mustn't grumble but take care of ourselves . 
That's easy enough , and I like the idea , I'm aching for something to do , that is , some new amusement , you know , added Jo quickly . 
So a tray was fitted out before anyone began , and taken up with the cook's compliments . 
Many were the complaints below , and great the chagrin of the head cook at her failures . 
Jo , with perfect faith in her own powers and a friendly desire to make up the quarrel , immediately put a note in the office , inviting Laurie to dinner . 
You'd better see what you have got before you think of having company , said Meg , when informed of the hospitable but rash act . 
Oh , there's corned beef and plenty of poatoes , and I shall get some asparagus and a lobster , for a relish' , as Hannah says . 
We'll have lettuce and make a salad . 
I don't know how , but the book tells . 
I'll have blancmange and strawberries for dessert , and coffee too , if you want to be elegant . 
Don't try too many messes , Jo , for you can't make anything but gingerbread and molasses candy fit to eat . 
I wash my hands of the dinner party , and since you have asked Laurie on your own responsibility , you may just take care of him . 
I don't want you to do anything but be civil to him and help to the pudding . 
You'll give me your advice if I get in a muddle , won't you ? asked Jo , rather hurt . 
Yes , but I don't know much , except about bread and a few trifles . 
You had better ask Mother's leave before you order anything , returned Meg prudently . 
And Jo went off in a huff at the doubts expressed of her powers . 
Get what you like , and don't disturb me . 
I'm going out to dinner and can't worry about things at home , said Mrs. March , when Jo spoke to her . 
I never enjoyed housekeeping , and I'm going to take a vacation today , and read , write , go visiting , and amuse myself . 
Everything is out of sorts , somehow , she said to herself , going downstairs . 
There's Beth crying , that's a sure sign that something is wrong in this family . 
If Amy is bothering , I'll shake her . 
It's all my fault , I forgot him , there isn't a seed or a drop left . 
Oh , Pip ! Oh , Pip ! How could I be so cruel to you ? cried Beth , taking the poor thing in her hands and trying to restore him . 
Jo peeped into his half open eye , felt his little heart , and finding him stiff and cold , shook her head , and offered her domino box for a coffin . 
Put him in the oven , and maybe his will get warm and revive , said Amy hopefully . 
He's been starved , and he shan't be baked now he's dead . 
The funeral shall be this afternoon , and we will all go . 
Now , don't cry , Bethy . 
It's a pity , but nothing goes right this week , and Pip has had the worst of the experiment . 
Leaving the others to console Beth , she departed to the kitchen , which was in a most discouraging state of confusion . 
Putting on a big apron , she fell to work and got the dishes piled up ready for washing , when she discovered that the fire was out . 
Here's a sweet prospect ! muttered Jo , slamming the stove door open , and poking vigorously among the cinders . 
Having rekindled the fire , she thought she would go to market while the water heated . 
By the time she got cleared up , the dinner arrived and the stove was red hot . 
Hannah had left a pan of bread to rise , Meg had worked it up early , set it on the hearth for a second rising , and forgotten it . 
Meg was entertaining Sallie Gardiner in the parlor , when the door flew open and a floury , crocky , flushed , and disheveled figure appeared , demanding tartly . 
Now this lady was a thin , yellow spinster , with a sharp nose and inquisitive eyes , who saw everything and gossiped about all she saw . 
They disliked her , but had been taught to be kind to her , simply because she was old and poor and had few friends . 
So Meg gave her the easy chair and tried to entertain her , while she asked questions , critsized everything , and told stories of the people whom she knew . 
Language cannot describe the anxieties , experiences , and exertions which Jo underwent that morning , and the dinner she served up became a standing joke . 
Fearing to ask any more advice , she did her best alone , and discovered that something more than energy and good will is necessary to make a cook . 
She boiled the asparagus for an hour and was grieved to find the heads cooked off and the stalks harder than ever . 
The bread burned black , for the salad dressing so aggravated her that she could not make it fit to ear . 
The lobster was a scarlet mystery to her , but she hammered and poked till it was unshelled and its meager proportions concealed in a grove of lettuce leaves . 
The potatoes had to be hurried , not to keep the asparagus waiting , and were not done at the last . 
The blancmange was lumpy , and the strawberries not as ripe as they looked , having been skilfully deaconed' . 
Jo's one strong point was the fruit , for she had sugared it well , and had a pitcher of rich cream to eat with it . 
Miss Crocker tasted first , made a wry face , and drank some water hastily . 
Amy , who was fond of delicate fare , took a heaping spoonful , choked , hid her face in her napkin , and left the table precipitately . 
Oh , what is it ? exclaimed Jo , trembling . 
Salt instead of sugar , and the cream is sour , replied Meg with a tragic gesture . 
She turned scarlet and was on the verge of crying , when she met Laurie's eyes , which would look merry in spite of his heroic efforts . 
The comical side of the affair suddenly struck her , and she laughed till the tears ran down her cheeks . 
So did everyone else , even Croaker' as the girls called the old lady , and the unfortunate dinner ended gaily , with bread and butter , olives and fun . 
They did sober themselves for Beth's sake . 
Here lies Pip March , Who died the th of June Loved and lamented sore , And not forgotten soon . 
Meg helped Jo clear away the remains of the feast , which took half the afternoon and left them so tired that they agreed to be contented with tea and toast for supper . 
Laurie took Amy to drive , which was a deed of charity , for the sour cream seemed to have had a bad effect upon her temper . 
Before the housewives could rest , several people called , and there was a scramble to get ready to see them . 
Then tea must be got , errands done , and one or two necessary bits of sewing neglected until the last minute . 
What a dreadful day this has been ! began Jo , usually the first to speak . 
It has seemed shorter than usual , but so uncomfortable , said Meg . 
Not a bit like home , added Amy . 
It can't seem so without Marmee and little Pip , sighed Beth , glancing with full eyes at the empty cage above her head . 
Here's Mother , dear , and you shall have another bird tomorrow , if you want it . 
As she spoke , Mrs. March came and took her place among them , looking as if her holiday had not been much pleasanter than theirs . 
I don't ! cried Jo decidedly . 
Nor I , echoed the others . 
I'm tired of it and mean to go to work at something right off . 
Suppose you learn plain cooking . 
Mother , did you go away and let everything be , just to see how we'd get on ? cried Meg , who had had suspicions all day . 
Yes , I wanted you to see how the comfort of all depends on each doing her share faithfully . 
While Hannah and I did your work , you got on pretty well , though I don't think you were very happy or amiable . 
So I thought , as a little lesson , I would show you what happens when everyone thinks only of herself . 
Work is wholesome , and there is plenty for everyone . 
It keeps us from ennui and mischief , is good for health and spirits , and gives us a sense of power and independence better than money or fashion . 
We'll work like bees , and love it too , see if we don't , said Jo . 
I'll learn plain cooking for my holiday task , and the dinner party I have shall be a success . 
I'll make the set of shirts for father , instead of letting you do it , Marmee . 
I can and I will , though I'm not fond of sewing . 
That will be better than fussing over my own things , which are plenty nice enough as they are . 
I'll do my lessons every day , and not spend so much time with my music and dolls . 
Have regular hours for work and play , make each day both useful and pleasant , and prove that you understand the worth of time by employing it well . 
Then youth will be delightful , old age will bring few regrets , and life become a beautiful success , in spite of poverty . 
We'll remember , Mother ! And they did . 
One July day she came in with her hands full , and went about the house leaving letters and parcels like the penny post . 
Miss Meg March , one letter and a glove , continued Beth , delivering the articles to her sister , who sat near her mother , stitching wristbands . 
Why , I left a pair over there , and here is only one , said Meg , looking at the gray cotton glove . 
Didn't you drop the other in the garden ? No , I'm sure I didn't , for there was only one in the office . 
I hate to have odd gloves ! Never mind , the other may be found . 
My letter is only a translation of the German song I wanted . 
I think Mr. Brooke did it , for this isn't Laurie's writing . 
What a sly fellow Laurie is ! I said I wished bigger hats were the fashion , because I burn my face every hot day . 
I'll wear it for fun , and show him I don't care for the fashion . 
And hanging the antique broadbrim on a bust of Plato , Jo read her letters . 
One from her mother made her cheeks glow and her eyes fill , for it said to her . 
My Dear I write a little word to tell you with how much satisfaction I watch your efforts to control your temper . 
I , too , have seen them all , and heartily believe in the sincerity of your resolution , since it begins to bear fruit . 
Go on , dear , patiently and bravely , and always believe that no one sympathizes more tenderly with you than your loving . 
Mother That does me good ! That's worth millions of money and pecks of praise . 
Oh , Marmee , I do try ! I will keep on trying , and not get tired , since I have you to help me . 
Laying her head on her arms , Jo wet her little romance with a few happy tears . 
In a big , dashing hand , Laurie wrote . 
Dear Jo , What ho ! Some english girls and boys are coming to see me tomorrow and I want to have a jolly time . 
They are nice people , and like such things . 
Brooke will go to keep us boys steady , and Kate Vaughn will play propriety for the girls . 
I want you all to come , can't let Beth off at any price , and nobody shall worry her . 
Don't bother about rations , I'll see to that and everything else , only do come , there's a good fellow ! In a tearing hurry , Yours ever , Laurie . 
Here's richness ! cried Jo , flying in to tell the news to Meg . 
I hope the Vaughns are not fine grown up people . 
Do you know anything about them , Jo ? asked Meg . 
Only that there are four of them . 
, who is nine or ten . 
Laurie knew them abroad , and liked the boys . 
I fancied , from the way he primmed up his mouth in speaking of her , that he didn't admire Kate much . 
I'm so glad my French print is clean , it's just the thing and so becoming ! observed Meg complacently . 
Have you anything decent , Jo ? Scarlet and gray boating suit , good enough for me . 
I shall row and tramp about , so I don't want any starch to think of . 
You'll come , Betty ? If you won't let any boys talk to me . 
Not a boy ! I like to please Laurie , and I'm not afraid of Mr. Brooke , he is so kind . 
But I don't want to play , or sing , or say anything . 
I'll work hard and not trouble anyone , and you'll take care of me , Jo , so I'll go . 
You do try to fight off your shyness , and I love you for it . 
Fighting faults isn't easy , as I know , and a cheery word kind of gives a lift . 
Thank you , Mother , And Jo gave the thin cheek a grateful kiss , more precious to Mrs. March than if it had given back the rosy roundness of her youth . 
I had a box of chocolate drops , and the picture I wanted to copy , said Amy , showing her mail . 
Now let's fly round , and do double duty today , so that we can play tomorrow with free minds , said Jo , preparing to replace her pen with a broom . 
When the sun peeped into the girls' room early next morning to promise them a fine day , he saw a comical sight . 
Each had made such preparation for the fete as seemed necessary and proper . 
It was one of the kind artists use to hold the paper on their drawing boards , therefore quite appropriate and effective for the purpose it was now being put . 
This funny spectacle appeared to amuse the sun , for he burst out with such radiance that Jo woke up and roused her sisters by a hearty laugh at Amy's ornament . 
Sunshine and laughter were good omens for a pleasure party , and soon a lively bustle began in both houses . 
Beth , who was ready first , kept reporting what went on next door , and enlivened her sisters' toilets by frequent telegrams from the window . 
There goes the man with the tent ! I see Mrs. Barker doing up the lunch in a hamper and a great basket . 
Now Mr. Laurence is looking up at the sky and the weathercock . 
I wish he would go too . 
One is lame , poor thing , he's got a crutch . 
Laurie didn't tell us that . 
Be quick , girls ! It's getting late . 
Why , there is Ned Moffat , I do declare . 
Meg , isn't that the man who bowed to you one day when we were shopping ? So it is . 
How queer that he should come . 
I thought he was at the mountains . 
I'm glad she got back in time . 
Am I all right , Jo ? cried Meg in a flutter . 
Hold up your dress and put your hat on straight , it looks sentimental tipped that way and will fly off at the first puff . 
I just will , though , for it's capital , so shady , light , and big . 
It will make fun , and I don't mind being a guy if I'm comfortable . 
With that Jo marched straight away and the rest followed , a bright little band of sisters , all looking their best in summer suits , with happy faces under the jaunty hatbrims . 
Laurie ran to meet and present them to his friends in the most cordial manner . 
The lawn was the reception room , and for several minutes a lively scene was enacted there . 
Beth took an observation of the new boys and decided that the lame one was not dreadful' , but gentle and feeble , and she would be kind to him on that account . 
Amy found Grace a well mannered , merry , little person , and after staring dumbly at one another for a few minutes , they suddenly became very good friends . 
Jo's funny hat deserved a vote of thanks , for it was of general utility . 
Miss Kate decided that she was odd' , but rather clever , and smiled upon her from afar . 
Meg , in the other boat , was delightfully situated , face to face with the rowers , who both admired the prospect and feathered their oars with uncommon skill and dexterity' . 
Mr. Brooke was a grave , silent young man , with handsome brown eyes and a pleasant voice . 
Meg liked his quiet manners and considered him a walking encyclopedia of useful knowledge . 
He never talked to her much , but he looked at her a good deal , and she felt sure that he did not regard her with aversion . 
Ned , being in college , of course put on all the airs which freshmen think it their bounden duty to assume . 
He was not very wise , but very good natured , and altogether an excellent person to carry on a picnic . 
Sallie Gardiner was absorbed in keeping her white pique dress clean and chattering with the ubiquitous Fred , who kept Beth in constant terror by his pranks . 
It was not far to Longmeadow , but the tent was pitched and the wickets down by the time they arrived . 
A pleasant green field , with three wide spreading oaks in the middle and a smooth strip of turf for croquet . 
Welcome to Camp Laurence ! said the young host , as they landed with exclamations of delight . 
Brooke is commander in chief , I am commissary general , the other fellows are staff officers , and you , ladies , are company . 
The tent is for your especial benefit and that oak is your drawing room , this is the messroom and the third is the camp kitchen . 
Now , let's have a game before it gets hot , and then we'll see about dinner . 
Frank , Beth , Amy , and Grace sat down to watch the game played by the other eight . 
Mr. Brooke chose Meg , Kate , and Fred . 
Laurie took Sallie , Jo , and Ned . 
The English played well , but the Americans played better , and contested every inch of the ground as strongly as if the spirit of inspired them . 
Jo and Fred had several skirmishes and once narrowly escaped high words . 
Jo was through the last wicket and had missed the stroke , which failure ruffled her a good deal . 
Fred was close behind her and his turn came before hers . 
He gave a stroke , his ball hit the wicket , and stopped an inch on the wrong side . 
No one was very near , and running up to examine , he gave it a sly nudge with his toe , which put it just an inch on the right side . 
I'm through ! Now , Miss Jo , I'll settle you , and get in first , cried the young gentleman , swinging his mallet for another blow . 
It's my turn now , said Jo sharply . 
Upon my word , I didn't move it . 
It rolled a bit , perhaps , but that is allowed . 
So , stand off please , and let me have a go at the stake . 
We don't cheat in America , but you can , if you choose , said Jo angrily . 
Yankees are a deal the most tricky , everybody knows . 
There you go ! returned Fred , croqueting her ball far away . 
By George , it's all up with us ! Goodbye , Kate . 
Miss Jo owes me one , so you are finished , cried Fred excitedly , as they all drew near to see the finish . 
We can't tell him so , but he won't do it again , take my word for it . 
Don't praise me , Meg , for I could box his ears this minute . 
I should certainly have boiled over if I hadn't stayed among the nettles till I got my rage under control enough to hold my tongue . 
It's simmering now , so I hope he'll keep out of my way , returned Jo , biting her lips as she glowered at Fred from under her big hat . 
Time for lunch , said Mr. Brooke , looking at his watch . 
Miss Kate sketched and Frank talked to Beth , who was making little mats of braided rushes to serve as plates . 
The commander in chief and his aides soon spread the tablecloth with an inviting array of eatables and drinkables , prettily decorated with green leaves . 
Jo announced that the coffee was ready , and everyone settled themselves to a hearty meal , for youth is seldom dyspeptic , and exercise develops wholesome appetites . 
A very merry lunch it was , for everything seemed fresh and funny , and frequent peals of laughter startled a venerable horse who fed near by . 
Three white headed children peeped over the fence , and an objectionable dog barked at them from the other side of the river with all his might and main . 
There's salt here , said Laurie , as he handed Jo a saucer of berries . 
Thank you , I prefer spiders , she replied , fishing up two unwary little ones who had gone to a creamy death . 
I had an uncommonly good time that day , and haven't got over it yet . 
This is no credit to me , you know , I don't do anything . 
It's you and Meg and Brooke who make it all go , and I'm no end obliged to you . 
what shall we do when we can't eat anymore ? asked Laurie , feeling that his trump card had been played when lunch was over . 
Have games till it's cooler . 
I brought Authors , and I dare say Miss Kate knows something new and nice . 
She's company , and you ought to stay with her more . 
Aren't you company too ? I thought she'd suit Brooke , but he keeps talking to Meg , and Kate just stares at them through that ridiculous glass of hers' . 
I'm going , so you needn't try to preach propriety , for you can't do it , Jo . 
It's very funny when well done , and makes a perfect jumble of tragical comical stuff to laugh over . 
Please start it , Mr. Brooke , said Kate , with a commanding air , which surprised Meg , who treated the tutor with as much respect as any other gentleman . 
Lying on the grass at the feet of the two young ladies , Mr. Brooke obediently began the story , with the handsome brown eyes steadily fixed upon the sunshiny river . 
Once on a time , a knight went out into the world to seek his fortune , for he had nothing but his sword and his shield . 
One day , as he went prancing down a quiet street , he saw at the window of a ruinous castle the lovely face . 
At last he resolved to get into the castle and ask how he could help them . 
The great door flew open , and he beheld . 
A ravishingly lovely lady , who exclaimed , with a cry of rapture , At last ! At last ! continued Kate , who had read French novels , and admired the style . 
Tis she ! cried Count Gustave , and fell at her feet in an ecstasy of joy . 
Oh , rise ! she said , extending a hand of marble fairness . 
Never ! Till you tell me how I may rescue you , swore the knight , still kneeling . 
Alas , my cruel fate condemns me to remain here till my tyrant is destroyed . 
Where is the villain ? In the mauve salon . 
Go , brave heart , and save me from despair . 
A stunning blow from the big Greek lexicon , which an old fellow in a black gown fired at him , said Ned . 
At the top of these steps he came plump upon a sight that took his breath away and chilled his blood . 
A tall figure , all in white with a veil over its face and a lamp in its wasted hand , went on Meg . 
It beckoned , gliding noiselessly before him down a corridor as dark and cold as any tomb . 
They reached a curtained door , behind which sounded lovely music . 
He sprang forward to enter , but the specter plucked him back , and waved threateningly before him a . 
Snuffbox , said Jo , in a sepulchral tone , which convulsed the audience . 
Thankee , said the knight politely , as he took a pinch and sneezed seven times so violently that his head fell off . 
Dance a hornpipe , cut in Fred , as Jo paused for breath , and , as they danced , the rubbishy old castle turned to a man of war in full sail . 
Go in and win , my hearties ! says the captain , and a tremendous fight began . 
Of course the British beat , they always do . 
No , they don't ! cried Jo , aside . 
The Portuguese held his tongue like a brick , and walked the plank , while the jolly tars cheered like mad . 
So the diver hoisted it up , and was much disappointed on opening it to find no pearls . 
He left it in a great lonely field , where it was found by a . 
Little goose girl , who kept a hundred fat geese in the field , said Amy , when Sallie's invention gave out . 
The little girl was sorry for them , and asked an old woman what she should do to help them . 
Your geese will tell you , they know everything . 
So she asked what she should use for new heads , since the old ones were lost , and all the geese opened their hundred mouths and screamed . 
Cabbages ! continued Laurie promptly . 
Just the thing , said the girl , and ran to get twelve fine ones from her garden . 
The knight in whom I'm interest went back to find the pretty face , and learned that the princesses had spun themselves free and all gone and married , but one . 
Peeping over the hedge , he saw the queen of his affections picking flowers in her garden . 
Will you give me a rose ? said he . 
You must come and get it . 
I can't come to you , it isn't proper , said she , as sweet as honey . 
He tried to climb over the hedge , but it seemed to grow higher and higher . 
Then he tried to push through , but it grew thicker and thicker , and he was in despair . 
Whether he did or not , Frank will tell you . 
I'm not playing , I never do , said Frank , dismayed at the sentimental predicament out of which he was to rescue the absurd couple . 
Beth had disappeared behind Jo , and Grace was asleep . 
I guess the princess gave him a posy , and opened the gate after a while , said Laurie , smiling to himself , as he threw acorns at his tutor . 
What a piece of nonsense we have made ! With practice we might do something quite clever . 
Do you know Truth ? I hope so , said Meg soberly . 
The game , I mean ? what is it ? said Fred . 
Let's try it , said Jo , who liked new experiments . 
Miss Kate and Mr. Booke , Meg , and Ned declined , but Fred , Sallie , Jo , and Laurie piled and drew , and the lot fell to Laurie . 
Who are your heroes ? asked Jo . 
Which lady here do you think prettiest ? said Sallie . 
Which do you like best ? from Fred . 
What silly questions you ask ! And Jo gave a disdainful shrug as the rest laughed at Laurie's matter of fact tone . 
Truth isn't a bad game , said Fred . 
It's a very good one for you , retorted Jo in a low voice . 
What is your greatest fault ? asked Fred , by way of testing in her the virtue he lacked himself . 
What do you most wish for ? said Laurie . 
A pair of boot lacings , returned Jo , guessing and defeating his purpose . 
You must say what you really do want most . 
Don't you wish you could give it to me , Laurie ? And she slyly smiled in his disappointed face . 
What virtues do you most admire in a man ? asked Sallie . 
Now my turn , said Fred , as his hand came last . 
Let's give it to him , whispered Laurie to Jo , who nodded and asked at once . 
Didn't you cheat at croquet ? Well , yes , a little bit . 
Good ! Didn't you take your story out of THE SEA LION ? said Laurie . 
Don't you think the English nation perfect in every respect ? asked Sallie . 
I should be ashamed of myself if I didn't . 
He's a true John Bull . 
Now , Miss Sallie , you shall have a chance without waiting to draw . 
You impertinent boy ! Of course I'm not , exclaimed Sallie , with an air that proved the contrary . 
What do you hate most ? asked Fred . 
What do you like best ? asked Jo . 
Well , I think Truth is a very silly play . 
Let's have a sensible game of Authors to refresh our minds , proposed Jo . 
Ned , frank , and the little girls joined in this , and while it went on , the three elders sat apart , talking . 
Miss Kate took out her sketch again , and Margaret watched her , while Mr. Brooke lay on the grass with a book , which he did not read . 
How beautifully you do it ! I wish I could draw , said Meg , with mingled admiration and regret in her voice . 
Why don't you learn ? I should think you had taste and talent for it , replied Miss Kate graciously . 
Your mamma prefers other accomplishments , I fancy . 
So did mine , but I proved to her that I had talent by taking a few lessons privately , and then she was quite willing I should go on . 
Can't you do the same with your governess ? I have none . 
I forgot young ladies in America go to school more than with us . 
Very fine schools they are , too , Papa says . 
You go to a private one , I suppose ? I don't go at all . 
I am a governess myself . 
Mr. Brooke looked up and said quickly , Young ladies in America love independence as much as their ancestors did , and are admired and respected for supporting themselves . 
Oh , yes , of course it's very nice and proper in them to do so . 
Did the German song suit , Miss March ? inquired Mr. Brooke , breaking an awkward pause . 
Oh , yes ! It was very sweet , and I'm much obliged to whoever translated it for me . 
And Meg's downcast face brightened as she spoke . 
Don't you read German ? asked Miss Kate with a look of surprise . 
My father , who taught me , is away , and I don't get on very fast alone , for I've no one to correct my pronunciation . 
Here is Schiller's Mary Stuart and a tutor who loves to teach . 
And Mr. Brooke laid his book on her lap with an inviting smile . 
It's so hard I'm afraid to try , said Meg , grateful , but bashful in the presence of the accomplished young lady beside her . 
I'll read a bit to encourage you . 
And Miss Kate read one of the most beautiful passages in a perfectly correct but perfectly expressionless manner . 
Mr. Brooke made no comment as she returned the book to Meg , who said innocently , I thought it was poetry . 
There was a queer smile about Mr. Brooke's mouth as he opened at poor Mary's lament . 
If she had seen the brown eyes then , she would have stopped short , but she never looked up , and the lesson was not spoiled for her . 
Very well indeed ! said Mr. Brooke , as she paused , quite ignoring her many mistakes , and looking as if he did indeed love to teach . 
I advise you to learn , for German is a valuable accomplishment to teachers . 
I must look after Grace , she is romping . 
And Miss Kate strolled away , adding to herself with a shrug , I didn't come to chaperone a governess , though she is young and pretty . 
What odd people these Yankees are . 
I'm afraid Laurie will be quite spoiled among them . 
I forgot that English people rather turn up their noses at governesses and don't treat them as we do , said Meg , looking after the retreating figure with an annoyed expression . 
Tutors also have rather a hard time of it there , as I know to my sorrow . 
There's no place like America for us workers , Miss Margaret . 
And Mr. Brooke looked so contented and cheerful that Meg was ashamed to lament her hard lot . 
I'm glad I live in it then . 
I don't like my work , but I get a good deal of satisfaction out of it after all , so I won't complain . 
I only wished I liked teaching as you do . 
I think you would if you had Laurie for a pupil . 
I shall be very sorry to lose him next year , said Mr. Brooke , busily punching holes in the turf . 
I am glad of that ! exclaimed Meg . 
I should think every young man would want to go , though it is hard for the mothers and sisters who stay at home , she added sorrowfully . 
Laurie and his grandfather would care a great deal , and we should all be very sorry to have any harm happen to you , said Meg heartily . 
Don't you love to ride ? asked Grace of Amy , as they stood resting after a race round the field with the others , led by Ned . 
My sister , Meg , used to ride when Papa was rich , but we don't keep any horses now , except Ellen Tree , added Amy , laughing . 
Tell me about Ellen Tree . 
Is it a donkey ? asked Grace curiously . 
Why , you see , Jo is crazy about horses and so am I , but we've only got an old sidesaddle and no horse . 
How funny ! laughed Grace . 
I have a pony at home , and ride nearly every day in the park with Fred and Kate . 
It's very nice , for my friends go too , and the Row is full of ladies and gentlemen . 
Beth , who was collecting the scattered Author cards , looked up and said , in her shy yet friendly way , I'm afraid you are tired . 
Can I do anything for you ? Talk to me , please . 
It's dull , sitting by myself , answered Frank , who had evidently been used to being made much of at home . 
What do you like to talk about ? she asked , fumbling over the cards and dropping half as she tried to tie them up . 
Well , I like to hear about cricket and boating and hunting , said Frank , who had not yet learned to suit his amusements to his strength . 
Bless her heart ! She pities him , so she is good to him , aid Jo , beaming at her from the croquet ground . 
I always said she was a little saint , added Meg , as if there could be no further doubt of it . 
I haven't heard Frank laugh so much for ever so long , said Grace to Amy , as they sat discussing dolls and making tea sets out of the acorn cups . 
My sister Beth is a very fastidious girl , when she likes to be , said Amy , well pleased at Beth's success . 
She meant facinating' , but as Grace didn't know the exact meaning of either word , fastidious sounded well and made a good impression . 
An impromptu circus , fox and geese , and an amicable game of croquet finished the afternoon . 
At sunset the tent was struck , hampers packed , wickets pulled up , boats loaded , and the whole party floated down the river , singing at the tops of their voices . 
Ned , getting sentimental , warbled a serenade with the pensive refrain . 
Alone , alone , ah ! Woe , alone , and at the lines . 
How can you be so cruel to me ? he whispered , under cover of a lively chorus . 
You've kept close to that starched up Englishwoman all day , and now you snub me . 
She's not a stricken deer anyway , said Ned , trying to be witty , and succeeding as well as very young gentlemen usually do . 
On the lawn where it had gathered , the little party separated with cordial good nights and good bys , for the Vaughns were going to Canada . 
I quite agree with you , said Mr. Brooke . 
CHAPTER THIRTEEN Laurie lay luxuriously swinging to and fro in his hammock one warm September afternoon , wondering what his neighbors were about , but too lazy to go and find out . 
He was in one of his moods , for the day had been both unprofitable and unsatisfactory , and he was wishing he could live it over again . 
Peeping through the meshes of the hammock , he saw the Marches coming out , as if bound on some expedition . 
Each wore a large , flapping hat , a brown linen pouch slung over one shoulder , and carried a long staff . 
Meg had a cushion , Jo a book , Beth a basket , and Amy a portfolio . 
All walked quietly through the garden , out at the little back gate , and began to climb the hill that lay between the house and river . 
Well , that's cool , said Laurie to himself , to have a picnic and never ask me ! They can't be going in the boat , for they haven't got the key . 
I'll take it to them , and see what's going on . 
Taking the shortest way to the boathouse , he waited for them to appear , but no one came , and he went up the hill to take an observation . 
Here's a landscape ! thought Laurie , peeping through the bushes , and looking wide awake and good natured already . 
Meg sat upon her cushion , sewing daintily with her white hands , and looking as fresh and sweet as a rose in her pink dress among the green . 
Beth was sorting the cones that lay thick under the hemlock near by , for she made pretty things with them . 
Amy was sketching a group of ferns , and Jo was knitting as she read aloud . 
May I come in , please ? Or shall I be a bother ? he asked , advancing slowly . 
Meg lifted her eyebrows , but Jo scowled at her defiantly and said at once , Of course you may . 
We should have asked you before , only we thought you wouldn't care for such a girl's game as this . 
I always like your games , but if Meg doesn't want me , I'll go away . 
I've no objection , if you do something . 
It's against the rules to be idle here , replied Meg gravely but graciously . 
I'll do anything if you'll let me stop a bit , for it's as dull as the Desert of Sahara down there . 
Shall I sew , read , cone , draw , or do all at once ? Bring on your bears . 
And Laurie sat down with a submissive expression delightful to behold . 
Finish this story while I set my heel , said Jo , handing him the book . 
was the meek answer , as he began , doing his best to prove his gratitude for the favor of admission into the Busy Bee Society' . 
The story was not a long one , and when it was finished , he ventured to ask a few questions as a reward of merit . 
Please , ma'am , could I inquire if this highly instructive and charming institution is a new one ? Would you tell him ? asked Meg of her sisters . 
He'll laugh , said Amy warningly . 
Who cares ? said Jo . 
I guess he'll like it , added Beth . 
Of course I shall ! I give you my word I won't laugh . 
Tell away , Jo , and don't be afraid . 
Yes , I know , said Laurie , nodding wisely . 
Who told you ? demanded Jo . 
I wanted to amuse him one night when you were all away , and he was rather dismal . 
He did like it , so don't scold , Jo , said Beth meekly . 
You can't keep a secret . 
Never mind , it saves trouble now . 
Go on , please , said Laurie , as Jo became absorbed in her work , looking a trifle displeased . 
The vacation is nearly over , the stints are all done , and we are ever so glad that we didn't dawdle . 
Yes , I should think so , and Laurie thought regretfully of his own idle days . 
Mother likes to have us out of doors as much as possible , so we bring our work here and have nice times . 
We call this hill the Delectable Mountain , for we can look far away and see the country where we hope to live some time . 
The sun was low , and the heavens glowed with the splendor of an autumn sunset . 
Gold and purple clouds lay on the hilltops , and rising high into the ruddy light were silvery white peaks that shone like the airy spires of some Celestial City . 
How beautiful that is ! said Laurie softly , for he was quick to see and feel beauty of any kind . 
It's often so , and we like to watch it , for it is never the same , but always splendid , replied Amy , wishing she could paint it . 
Jo talks about the country where we hope to live sometime the real country , she means , with pigs and chickens and haymaking . 
It would be nice , but I wish the beautiful country up there was real , and we could ever go to it , said Beth musingly . 
There is a lovelier country even than that , where we shall go , by and by , when we are good enough , answered Meg with her sweetest voice . 
It seems so long to wait , so hard to do . 
I want to fly away at once , as those swallows fly , and go in at that splendid gate . 
You'll get there , Beth , sooner or later , no fear of that , said Jo . 
I'm the one that will have to fight and work , and climb and wait , and maybe never get in after all . 
you'll have me for company , if that's any comfort . 
I shall have to do a deal of traveling before I come in sight of your Celestial City . 
I always imagine it is as it is in the picture , where the shining ones stretch out their hands to welcome poor Christian as he comes up from the river . 
Wouldn't it be fun if all the castles in the air which we make could come true , and we could live in them ? said Jo , after a little pause . 
I've made such quantities it would be hard to choose which I'd have , said Laurie , lying flat and throwing cones at the squirrel who had betrayed him . 
You'd have to take your favorite one . 
What is it ? asked Meg . 
If I tell mine , will you tell yours ? Yes , if the girls will too . 
After I'd seen as much of the world as I want to , I'd like to settle in Germany and have just as much music as I choose . 
I'm to be a famous musician myself , and all creation is to rush to hear me . 
And I'm never to be bothered about money or business , but just enjoy myself and live for what I like . 
I am to be mistress of it , and manage it as I like , with plenty of servants , so I never need work a bit . 
How I should enjoy it ! For I wouldn't be idle , but do good , and make everyone love me dearly . 
Wouldn't you have a master for your castle in the air ? asked Laurie slyly . 
I said pleasant people' , you know , And Meg carefully tied up her shoe as she spoke , so that no one saw her face . 
You'd have nothing but horses , inkstands , and novels in yours , answered Meg petulantly . 
I want to do something splendid before I go into my castle , something heroic or wonderful that won't be forgotten after I'm dead . 
I don't know what , but I'm on the watch for it , and mean to astonish you all some day . 
I think I shall write books , and get rich and famous , that would suit me , so that is my favorite dream . 
Mine is to stay at home safe with Father and Mother , and help take care of the family , said Beth contentedly . 
Don't you wish for anything else ? asked Laurie . 
Since I had my little piano , I am perfectly satisfied . 
I only wish we may all keep well and be together , nothing else . 
We're an ambitious set , aren't we ? Every one of us , but Beth , wants to be rich and famous , and gorgeous in every respect . 
I do wonder if any of us will ever get our wishes , said Laurie , chewing grass like a meditative calf . 
I've got the key to my castle in the air , but whether I can unlock the door remains to be seen , observed Jo mysteriously . 
I've got the key to mine , but I'm not allowed to try it . 
Hang college ! muttered Laurie with an impatient sigh . 
Here's mine ! and Amy waved her pencil . 
I haven't got any , said Meg forlornly . 
Yes , you have , said Laurie at once . 
Where ? In your face . 
Nonsense , that's of no use . 
Wait and see if it doesn't bring you something worth having , replied the boy , laughing at the thought of a charming little secret which he fancied he knew . 
Meg colored behind the brake , but asked no questions and looked across the river with the same expectant expression which Mr. Brooke had worn when he told the story of the knight . 
Bless me ! How old I shall be , twenty seven ! exclaimed Meg , who felt grown up already , having just reached seventeen . 
You and I will be twenty six , Teddy , Beth twenty four , and Amy twenty two . 
What a venerable party ! said Jo . 
I hope I shall have done something to be proud of by that time , but I'm such a lazy dog , I'm afraid I shall dawdle , Jo . 
You need a motive , Mother says , and when you get it , she is sure you'll work splendidly . 
Is she ? By Jupiter , I will , if I only get the chance ! cried Laurie , sitting up with sudden energy . 
I ought to be satisfied to please Grandfather , and I do try , but it's working against the grain , you see , and comes hard . 
He wants me to be an India merchant , as he was , and I'd rather be shot . 
I hate tea and sild and spices , and every sort of rubbish his old ships bring , and I don't care how soon they go to the bottom when I own them . 
Going to college ought to satisfy him , for if I give him four years he ought to let me off from the business . 
But he's set , and I've got to do just as he did , unless I break away and please myself , as my father did . 
If there was anyone left to stay with the old gentleman , I'd do it tomorrow . 
That's not right , Jo . 
You mustn't talk in that way , and Laurie mustn't take your bad advice . 
You should do just what your grandfather wishes , my dear boy , said Meg in her most maternal tone . 
Do your best at college , and when he sees that you try to please him , I'm sure he won't be hard on you or unjust to you . 
As you say , there is no one else to stay with and love him , and you'd never forgive yourself if you left him without his permission . 
Don't be dismal or fret , but do your duty and you'll get your reward , as good Mr. Brooke has , by being respected and loved . 
And how he provides now for an old woman who nursed his mother , and never tells anyone , but is just as generous and patient and good as he can be . 
So he is , dear old fellow ! said Laurie heartily , as Meg paused , looking flushed and earnest with her story . 
It's like Grandpa to find out all about him without letting him know , and to tell all his goodness to others , so that they might like him . 
Brooke couldn't understand why your mother was so kind to him , asking him over with me and treating him in her beautiful friendly way . 
He thought she was just perfect , and talked about it for days and days , and went on about you all in flaming style . 
If ever I do get my wish , you see what I'll do for Booke . 
Begin to do something now by not plaguing his life out , said Meg sharply . 
How do you know I do , Miss ? I can always tell by his face when he goes away . 
If you have been good , he looks satisfied and walks briskly . 
If you have plagued him , he's sober and walks slowly , as if he wanted to go back and do his work better . 
I don't tell tales , replied Laurie , with his high and mighty' air , as Jo called a certain expression which he occasionally wore . 
Only if Brooke is going to be a thermometer , I must mind and have fair weather for him to report . 
I didn't meant to preach or tell tales or be silly . 
I only thought Jo was encouraging you in a feeling which you'd be sorry for by and by . 
You are so kind to us , we feel as if you were our brother and say just what we think . 
Forgive me , I meant it kindly . 
And Meg offered her hand with a gesture both affectionate and timid . 
Ashamed of his momentary pique , Laurie squeezed the kind little hand , and said frankly , I'm the one to be forgiven . 
I'm cross and have been out of sorts all day . 
I like to have you tell me my faults and be sisterly , so don't mind if I am grumpy sometimes . 
I thank you all the same . 
, the faint sound of a bell warned them that Hannah had put the tea to draw' , and they would just have time to get home to supper . 
May I come again ? asked Laurie . 
Yes , if your are good , and love your book , as the boys in the primer are told to do , said Meg , smiling . 
Then you may come , and I'll teach you to knit as the Scotchmen do . 
There's a demand for socks just now , added Jo , waving hers like a big blue worsted banner as they parted at the gate . 
CHAPTER FOURTEEN Jo was very busy in the garret , for the October days began to grow chilly , and the afternoons were short . 
Quite absorbed in her work , Jo scribbled away till the last page was filled , when she signed her name with a flourish and threw down her pen , exclaiming . 
There , I've done my best ! If this won't suit I shall have to wait till I can do better . 
Lying back on the sofa , she read the manuscript carefully through , making dashes here and there , and putting in many exclamation points , which looked like little balloons . 
Jo's desk up here was an old tin kitchen which hung against the wall . 
From this tin receptacle Jo produced another manuscript , and putting both in her pocket , crept quietly downstairs , leaving her friends to nibble on her pens and taste her ink . 
Once there , she composed herself , hailed a passing omnibus , and rolled away to town , looking very merry and mysterious . 
This maneuver she repeated several times , to the great amusement of a black eyed young gentleman lounging in the window of a building opposite . 
In ten minutes Jo came running downstairs with a very red face and the general appearance of a person who had just passed through a trying ordeal of some sort . 
When she saw the young gentleman she looked anything but pleased , and passed him with a nod . 
But he followed , asking with an air of sympathy , Did you have a bad time ? Not very . 
Yes , thank goodness ! Why did you go alone ? Didn't want anyone to know . 
You're the oddest fellow I ever saw . 
How many did you have out ? Jo looked at her friend as if she did not understand him , then began to laugh as if mightily amused at something . 
There are two which I want to have come out , but I must wait a week . 
What are you laughing at ? You are up to some mischief , Jo , said Laurie , looking mystified . 
why ? You can teach me , and then when we play HAMLET , you can be Laertes , and we'll make a fine thing of the fencing scene . 
Laurie burst out with a hearty boy's laugh , which made several passers by smile in spite of themselves . 
I'll teach you whether we play HAMLET or not . 
It's grand fun and will straighten you up capitally . 
Do you ? Not often . 
It's no harm , Jo . 
Oh , dear , I'm so sorry , for you'll get to liking it better and better , and will waste time and money , and grow like those dreadful boys . 
I did hope you'd stay respectable and be a satisfaction to your friends , said Jo , shaking her head . 
Can't a fellow take a little innocent amusement now and then without losing his respectability ? asked Laurie , looking nettled . 
That depends upon how and where he takes it . 
I don't like Ned and his set , and wish you'd keep out of it . 
Mother won't let us have him at our house , though he wants to come . 
And if you grow like him she won't be willing to have us frolic together as we do now . 
Won't she ? asked Laurie anxiously . 
No , she can't bear fashionable young men , and she'd shut us all up in bandboxes rather than have us associate with them . 
Well , she needn't get out her bandboxes yet . 
I'll be a double distilled saint . 
Just be a simple , honest , respectable boy , and we'll never desert you . 
I don't know what I should do if you acted like Mr. King's son . 
You think I'm likely to do the same ? Much obliged . 
No , I don't oh , dear , no ! but I hear people talking about money being such a temptation , and I sometimes wish you were poor . 
Are you going to deliver lectures all the way home ? he asked presently . 
Why ? Because if you are , I'll take a bus . 
If you're not , I'd like to walk with you and tell you something very interesting . 
I won't preach any more , and I'd like to hear the news immensely . 
Very well , then , come on . 
It's a secret , and if I tell you , you must tell me yours . 
I haven't got any , began Jo , but stopped suddenly , remembering that she had . 
You know you have you can't hide anything , so up and fess , or I won't tell , cried Laurie . 
You'll not say anything about it at home , will you ? Not a word . 
And you won't tease me in private ? I never tease . 
You get everything you want out of people . 
I don't know how you do it , but you are a born wheedler . 
Well , I've left two stories with a newspaperman , and he's to give his answer next week , whispered Jo , in her confidant's ear . 
Why , Jo , your stories are works of Shakespeare compared to half the rubbish that is published every day . 
Where's your secret ? Play fair , Teddy , or I'll never believe you again , she said , trying to extinguish the brilliant hopes that blazed up at a word of encouragement . 
I know where Meg's glove is . 
Is that all ? said Jo , looking disappointed , as Laurie nodded and twinkled with a face full of mysterious intelligence . 
It's quite enough for the present , as you'll agree when I tell you where it is . 
Laurie bent , and whispered three words in Jo's ear , which produced a comical change . 
She stood and stared at him for a minute , looking both surprised and displeased , then walked on , saying sharply , How do you know ? Saw it . 
All this time ? Yes , isn't that romantic ? No , it's horrid . 
Don't you like it ? Of course I don't . 
It's ridiculous , it won't be allowed . 
My patience ! What would Meg say ? You are not to tell anyone . 
That was understood , and I trusted you . 
Well , I won't for the present , anyway , but I'm disgusted , and wish you hadn't told me . 
I thought you'd be pleased . 
At the idea of anybody coming to take Meg away ? No , thank you . 
You'll feel better about it when somebody comes to take you away . 
I'd like to see anyone try it , cried Jo fiercely . 
So should I ! And Laurie chuckled at the idea . 
I don't think secrets agree with me , I feel rumpled up in my mind since you told me that , said Jo rather ungratefully . 
Race down this hill with me , and you'll be all right , suggested Laurie . 
I wish I was a horse , then I could run for miles in this splendid air , and not lose my breath . 
It was capital , but see what a guy it's made me . 
Go , pick up my things , like a cherub , as you are , said Jo , dropping down under a maple tree , which was carpeting the bank with crimson leaves . 
Laurie leisurely departed to recover the lost property , and Jo bundled up her braids , hoping no one would pass by till she was tidy again . 
But someone did pass , and who should it be but Meg , looking particularly ladylike in her state and festival suit , for she had been making calls . 
What in the world are you doing here ? she asked , regarding her disheveled sister with well bred surprise . 
Getting leaves , meekly answered Jo , sorting the rosy handful she had just swept up . 
And hairpins , added Laurie , throwing half a dozen into Jo's lap . 
They grow on this road , Meg , so do combs and brown straw hats . 
You have been running , Jo . 
How could you ? When will you stop such romping ways ? said Meg reprovingly , as she settled her cuffs and smoothed her hair , with which the wind had taken liberties . 
Never till I'm stiff and old and have to use a crutch . 
Don't try to make me grow up before my time , Meg . 
It's hard enough to have you change all of a sudden . 
Let me be a little girl as long as I can . 
It was very splendid , and they have gone to spend the winter in Paris . 
Just think how delightful that must be ! Do you envy her , Meg ? said Laurie . 
I'm glad of it ! muttered Jo , tying on her hat with a jerk . 
Why ? asked Meg , looking surprised . 
For a week or two , Jo behaved so queerly that her sisters were quite bewildered . 
Laurie and she were always making signs to one another , and talking about Spread Eagles' till the girls declared they had both lost their wits . 
What went on there , Meg could not see , but shrieks of laughter were heard , followed by the murmur of voices and a great flapping of newspapers . 
What shall we do with that girl ? She never will behave like a young lady , sighed Meg , as she watched the race with a disapproving face . 
She is so funny and dear as she is , said Beth , who had never betrayed that she was a little hurt at Jo's having secrets with anyone but her . 
, two agreeable things that made her feel unusually elegant and ladylike . 
In a few minutes Jo bounced in , laid herself on the sofa , and affected to read . 
Have you anything interesting there ? asked Meg , with condescension . 
Nothing but a story , won't amount to much , I guess , returned Jo , carefully keeping the name of the paper out of sight . 
You'd better read it aloud . 
That will amuse us and keep you out of mischief , said Amy in her most grown up tone . 
What's the name ? asked Beth , wondering why Jo kept her face behind the sheet . 
Read it , said Meg . 
With a loud Hem ! and a long breath , Jo began to read very fast . 
The girls listened with interest , for the tale was romantic , and somewhat pathetic , as most of the characters died in the end . 
I like that about the splendid picture , was Amy's approving remark , as Jo paused . 
I prefer the lovering part . 
Viola and Angelo are two of our favorite names , isn't that queer ? said Meg , wiping her eyes , for the lovering part was tragical . 
Who wrote it ? asked Beth , who had caught a glimpse of Jo's face . 
The reader suddenly sat up , cast away the paper , displaying a flushed countenance , and with a funny mixture of solemnity and excitement replied in a loud voice , Your sister . 
You ? cried Meg , dropping her work . 
It's very good , said Amy critically . 
I knew it ! I knew it ! Oh , my Jo , I am so proud ! And Beth ran to hug her sister and exult over this splendid success . 
Dear me , how delighted they all were , to be sure ! How Meg wouldn't believe it till she saw the words . 
Miss Josephine March , actually printed in the paper . 
How graciously Amy critisized the artistic parts of the story , and offered hints for a sequel , which unfortunately couldn't be carried out , as the hero and heroine were dead . 
How Beth got excited , and skipped and sang with joy . 
How Hannah came in to exclaim , Sakes alive , well I never ! in great astonishment at that Jo's doin's' . 
How proud Mrs. March was when she knew it . 
How Jo laughed , with tears in her eyes , as she declared she might as well be a peacock and done with it . 
and how th Spread Eagle' might be said to flap his wings triumphantly over the House of March , as the paper passed from hand to hand . 
Stop jabbering , girls , and I'll tell you everything , said Jo , wondering if Miss Burney felt any grander over her Evilina than she did over her Rival Painters' . 
It was good practice , he said , and when the beginners improved , anyone would pay . 
So I let him have the two stories , and today this was sent to me , and Laurie caught me with it and insisted on seeing it , so I let him . 
CHAPTER FIFTEEN November is the most disagreeable month in the whole year , said Margaret , standing at the window one dull afternoon , looking out at the frostbitten garden . 
That's the reason I was born in it , observed Jo pensively , quite unconscious of the blot on her nose . 
If something very pleasant should happen now , we should think it a delightful month , said Beth , who took a hopeful view of everything , even November . 
I dare say , but nothing pleasant ever does happen in this family , said Meg , who was out of sorts . 
We go grubbing along day after day , without a bit of change , and very little fun . 
We might as well be in a treadmill . 
My patience , how blue we are ! cried Jo . 
I don't much wonder , poor dear , for you see other girls having splendid times , while you grind , grind , year in and year out . 
Then you'd dash out as an heiress , scorn everyone who has slighted you , go abroad , and come home my Lady Something in a blaze of splendor and elegance . 
People don't have fortunes left them in that style nowadays , men have to work and women marry for money . 
It's a dreadfully unjust world , said Meg bitterly . 
Jo and I are going to make fortunes for you all . 
Can't wait , and I'm afraid I haven't much faith in ink and dirt , though I'm grateful for your good intentions . 
Meg sighed , and turned to the frostbitten garden again . 
Marmee is coming down the street , and Laurie is tramping through the garden as if he had something nice to tell . 
It's a dull day , but the air isn't bad , and I'm going to take Brooke home , so it will be gay inside , if it isn't out . 
Come , Jo , you and Beth will go , won't you ? Of course we will . 
Much obliged , but I'm busy . 
And Meg whisked out her workbasket , for she had agreed with her mother that it was best , for her at least , not to drive too often with the young gentleman . 
We three will be ready in a minute , cried Amy , running away to wash her hands . 
Can I do anything for you , Madam Mother ? asked Laurie , leaning over Mrs. March's chair with the affectionate look and tone he always gave her . 
No , thank you , except call at the office , if you'll be so kind , dear . 
It's our day for a letter , and the postman hasn't been . 
Father is as regular as the sun , but there's some delay on the way , perhaps . 
A sharp ring interrupted her , and a minute after Hannah came in with a letter . 
It's one of them horrid telegraph things , mum , she said , handling it as if she was afraid it would explode and do some damage . 
Laurie dashed downstairs for water , while Meg and Hannah supported her , and Jo read aloud , in a frightened voice . 
Mrs. March Your husband is very ill . 
S. HALE Blank Hospital , Washington . 
Poor Hannah was the first to recover , and with unconscious wisdom she set all the rest a good example , for with her , work was panacea for most afflictions . 
She's right , there's no time for tears now . 
Be calm , girls , and let me think . 
They tried to be calm , poor things , as their mother sat up , looking pale but steady , and put away her grief to think and plan for them . 
Where's Laurie ? she asked presently , when she had collected her thoughts and decided on the first duties to be done . 
Send a telegram saying I will come at once . 
The next train goes early in the morning . 
What else ? The horses are ready . 
I can go anywhere , do anything , he said , looking ready to fly to the ends of the earth . 
Leave a note at Aunt March's . 
Jo , give me that pen and paper . 
Now go , dear , but don't kill yourself driving at a desperate pace . 
There is no need of that . 
Mrs. March's warning was evidently thrown away , for five minutes later Laurie tore by the window on his own fleet horse , riding as if for his life . 
Jo , run to the rooms , and tell Mrs. King that I can't come . 
On the way get these things . 
I'll put them down , they'll be needed and I must go prepared for nursing . 
Hospital stores are not always good . 
Beth , go and ask Mr. Laurence for a couple of bottles of old wine . 
I'm not too proud to beg for Father . 
He shall have the best of everything . 
Amy , tell Hannah to get down the black trunk , and Meg , come and help me find my things , for I'm half bewildered . 
Everyone scattered like leaves before a gust of wind , and the quiet , happy household was broken up as suddenly as if the paper had been an evil spell . 
There was nothing he didn't offer , from his own dressing gown to himself as escort . 
But the last was impossible . 
He saw the look , knit his heavy eyebrows , rubbed his hands , and marched abruptly away , saying he'd be back directly . 
I'm very sorry to hear of this , Miss March , he said , in the kind , quiet tone which sounded very pleasantly to her perturbed spirit . 
I came to offer myself as escort to your mother . 
Mr. Laurence has commissions for me in Washington , and it will give me real satisfaction to be of service to her there . 
How kind you all are ! Mother will accept , I'm sure , and it will be such a relief to know that she has someone to take care of her . 
The short afternoon wore away . 
They began to get anxious , and Laurie went off to find her , for no one knew what freak Jo might take into her head . 
I didn't beg , borrow , or steal it . 
I earned it , and I don't think you'll blame me , for I only sold what was my own . 
As she spoke , Jo took off her bonnet , and a general outcry arose , for all her abundant hair was cut short . 
Your hair ! Your beautiful hair ! Oh , Jo , how could you ? Your one beauty . 
My dear girl , there was no need of this . 
It will be good for my vanity , I getting too proud of my wig . 
It will do my brains good to have that mop taken off . 
My head feels deliciously light and cool , and the barber said I could soon have a curly crop , which will be boyish , becoming , and easy to keep in order . 
I'm satisfied , so please take the money and let's have supper . 
Tell me all about it , Jo . 
I am not quite satisfied , but I can't blame you , for I know how willingly you sacrificed your vanity , as you call it , to your love . 
But , my dear , it was not necessary , and I'm afraid you will regret it one of these days , said Mrs. March . 
No , I won't ! returned Jo stoutly , feeling much relieved that her prank was not entirely condemned . 
What made you do it ? asked Amy , who would as soon have thought of cutting off her head as her pretty hair . 
Well , I was wild to to something for Father , replied Jo , as they gathered about the table , for healthy young people can eat even in the midst of trouble . 
I hate to borrow as much as Mother does , and I knew Aunt March would croak , she always does , if you ask for a ninepence . 
You needn't feel wicked , my child ! You had no winter things and got the simplest with your own hard earnings , said Mrs. March with a look that warmed Jo's heart . 
In a barber's window I saw tails of hair with the prices marked , and one black tail , not so thick as mine , was forty dollars . 
I don't see how you dared to do it , said Beth in a tone of awe . 
Oh , he was a little man who looked as if he merely lived to oil his hair . 
He rather stared at first , as if he wasn't used to having girls bounce into his shop and ask him to buy their hair . 
He said he didn't care about mine , it wasn't the fashionable color , and he never paid much for it in the first place . 
The work he put it into it made it dear , and so on . 
So I begged him to take it , and told him why I was in such a hurry . 
I'd do as much for our Jimmy any day if I had a spire of hair worth selling . 
Who was Jimmy ? asked Amy , who liked to have things explained as they went along . 
Her son , she said , who was in the army . 
How friendly such things make strangers feel , don't they ? She talked away all the time the man clipped , and diverted my mind nicely . 
Didn't you feel dreadfully when the first cut came ? asked Meg , with a shiver . 
I took a last look at my hair while the man got his things , and that was the end of it . 
I never snivel over trifles like that . 
I will confess , though , I felt queer when I saw the dear old hair laid out on the table , and felt only the short rough ends of my head . 
It almost seemed as if I'd an arm or leg off . 
The woman saw me look at it , and picked out a long lock for me to keep . 
I'll give it to you , Marmee , just to remember past glories by , for a crop is so comfortable I don't think I shall ever have a mane again . 
Mrs. March folded the wavy chestnut lock , and laid it away with a short gray one in her desk . 
No one wanted to go to bed when at ten o'clock Mrs. March put by the last finished job , and said , Come girls . 
Beth went to the piano and played the father's favorite hymn . 
All began bravely , but broke down one by one till Beth was left alone , singing with all her heart , for to her music was always a sweet consoler . 
Go to bed and don't talk , for we must be up early and shall need all the sleep we can get . 
Good night , my darlings , said Mrs. March , as the hymn ended , for no one cared to try another . 
They kissed her quietly , and went to bed as silently as if the dear invalid lay in the next room . 
Beth and Amy soon fell asleep in spite of the great trouble , but Meg lay awake , thinking the most serious thoughts she had ever known in her short life . 
Jo lay motionless , and her sister fancied that she was asleep , till a stifled sob made her exclaim , as she touched a wet cheek . 
Jo , dear , what is it ? Are you crying about father ? No , not now . 
My hair ! burst out poor Jo , trying vainly to smother her emotion in the pillow . 
It did not seem at all comical to Meg , who kissed and caressed the afflicted heroine in the tenderest manner . 
I'm not sorry , protested Jo , with a choke . 
I'd do it again tomorrow , if I could . 
It's only the vain part of me that goes and cries in this silly way . 
Don't tell anyone , it's all over now . 
I thought you were asleep , so I just made a little private moan for my one beauty . 
How came you to be awake ? I can't sleep , I'm so anxious , said Meg . 
Think about something pleasant , and you'll soon drop off . 
I tried it , but felt wider awake than ever . 
What did you think of ? Handsome faces eyes particularly , answered Meg , smiling to herself in the dark . 
What color do you like best ? Brown , that is , sometimes . 
CHAPTER SIXTEEN In the cold gray dawn the sisters lit their lamp and read their chapter with an earnestness never felt before . 
Everything seemed very strange when they went down , so dim and still outside , so full of light and bustle within . 
Breakfast at that early hour seemed odd , and even Hannah's familiar face looked unnatural as she flew about her kitchen with her nightcap on . 
Children , I leave you to Hannah's care and Mr. Laurence's protection . 
Hannah is faithfulness itself , and our good neighbor will guard you as if you were his own . 
I have no fears for you , yet I am anxious that you should take this trouble rightly . 
Don't grieve and fret when I am gone , or think that you can be idle and comfort yourselves by being idle and trying to forget . 
Go on with your work as usual , for work is a blessed solace . 
Hope and keep busy , and whatever happens , remember that you never can be fatherless . 
Meg , dear , be prudent , watch over your sisters , consult Hannah , and in any perplexity , go to Mr. Laurence . 
Be patient , Jo , don't get despondent or do rash things , write to me often , and be my brave girl , ready to help and cheer all . 
We will , Mother ! We will ! The rattle of an approaching carriage made them all start and listen . 
That was the hard minute , but the girls stood it well . 
They kissed their mother quietly , clung about her tenderly , and tried to wave their hands cheerfully when she drove away . 
Laurie and his grandfather came over to see her off , and Mr. Brooke looked so strong and sensible and kind that the girls christened him Mr. Greatheart' on the spot . 
Goodby , my darlings ! God bless and keep us all ! whispered Mrs. March , as she kissed one dear little face after the other , and hurried into the carriage . 
As she rolled away , the sun came out , and looking back , she saw it shining on the group at the gate like a good omen . 
How kind everyone is to us ! she said , turning to find fresh proof of it in the respectful sympathy of the young man's face . 
I don't see how they can help it , returned Mr. Brooke , laughing so infectiously that Mrs. March could not help smiling . 
And so the journey began with the good omens of sunshine , smiles , and cheerful words . 
I feel as if there had been an earthquake , said Jo , as their neighbors went home to breakfast , leaving them to rest and refresh themselves . 
It seems as if half the house was gone , added Meg forlornly . 
It was a little thing , but it went straight to their hearts , and in spite of their brave resolutions , they all broke down and cried bitterly . 
Hannah wisely allowed them to relieve their feelings , and when the shower showed signs of clearing up , she came to the rescue , armed with a coffeepot . 
Now , ny dear young ladies , remember what your ma said , and don't fret . 
Come and have a cup of coffee all round , and then let's fall to work and be a credit to the family . 
Coffee was a treat , and Hannah showed great tact in making it that morning . 
No one could resist her persuasive nods , or the fragrant invitation issuing from the nose of the coffee pot . 
They drew up to the table , exchanged their handkerchiefs for napkins , and in ten minutes were all right again . 
Hope and keep busy' , that's the motto for us , so let's see who will remember it best . 
I shall go to Aunt March , as usual . 
Oh , won't she lecture though ! said Jo , as she sipped with returning spirit . 
I shall go to my Kings , though I'd much rather stay at home and attend to things here , said Meg , wishing she hadn't made her eyes so red . 
Beth and I can keep house perfectly well , put in Amy , with an important air . 
Hannah will tell us what to do , and we'll have everything nice when you come home , added Beth , getting out her mop and dish tub without delay . 
I think anxiety is very interesting , observed Amy , eating sugar pensively . 
The girls couldn't help laughing , and felt better for it , though Meg shook her head at the young lady who could find consolation in a sugar bowl . 
It was gone , but Beth had remembered the little household ceremony , and there she was , nodding away at them like a rosyfaced mandarin . 
That's so like my Beth ! said Jo , waving her hat , with a grateful face . 
Goodbye , Meggy , I hope the Kings won't strain today . 
Don't fret about Father , dear , she added , as they parted . 
And I hope Aunt March won't croak . 
And , touching her hat a la Laurie , away went Jo , feeling like a shorn sheep on a wintry day . 
News from their father comforted the girls very much , for though dangerously ill , the presence of the best and tenderest of nurses had already done him good . 
Mr. Brooke sent a bulletin every day , and as the head of the family , Meg insisted on reading the dispatches , which grew more cheerful as the week passed . 
As one of these packets contained characteristic notes from the party , we will rob an imaginary mail , and read them . 
My dearest Mother It is impossible to tell you how happy your last letter made us , for the news was so good we couldn't help laughing and crying over it . 
How very kind Mr. Brooke is , and how fortunate that Mr. Laurence's business detains him near you so long , since he is so useful to you and Father . 
The girls are all as good as gold . 
Jo helps me with the sewing , and insists on doing all sorts of hard jobs . 
I should be afraid she might overdo , if I didn't know her moral fit' wouldn't last long . 
Beth is as regular about her tasks as a clock , and never forgets what you told her . 
She grieves about Father , and looks sober except when she is at her little piano . 
Amy minds me nicely , and I take great care of her . 
She does her own hair , and I am teaching her to make buttonholes and mend her stockings . 
She tries very hard , and I know you will be pleased with her improvement when you come . 
Mr. Laurence watches over us like a motherly old hen , as Jo says , and Laurie is very kind and neighborly . 
He and Jo keep us merry , for we get pretty blue sometimes , and feel like orphans , with you so far away . 
Hannah is a perfect saint . 
She does not scold at all , and always calls me Miss Margaret , which is quite proper , you know , and treats me with respect . 
We are all well and busy , but we long , day and night , to have you back . 
Give my dearest love to Father , and believe me , ever your own . 
My precious Marmee Three cheers for dear Father ! Brooke was a trump to telegraph right off , and let us know the minute he was better . 
We have such funny times , and now I can enjoy them , for everyone is so desperately good , it's like living in a nest of turtledoves . 
You'd laugh to see Meg head the table and try to be motherish . 
She gets prettier every day , and I'm in love with her sometimes . 
The children are regular archangels , and I well , I'm Jo , and never shall be anything else . 
Oh , I must tell you that I came near having a quarrel with Laurie . 
I freed my mind about a silly little thing , and he was offended . 
I was right , but didn't speak as I ought , and he marched home , saying he wouldn't come again till I begged pardon . 
I declared I wouldn't and got mad . 
I felt bad and wanted you very much . 
Laurie and I are both so proud , it's hard to beg pardon . 
But I thought he'd come to it , for I was in the right . 
He didn't come , and just at night I remembered what you said when Amy fell into the river . 
I read my little book , felt better , resolved not to let the sun set on my anger , and ran over to tell Laurie I was sorry . 
I met him at the gate , coming for the same thing . 
We both laughed , begged each other's pardon , and felt all good and comfortable again . 
I made a pome' yesterday , when I was helping Hannah wash , and as Father likes my silly little things , I put it in to amuse him . 
Give him my lovingest hug that ever was , and kiss yourself a dozen times for your . 
Then out in the free fresh air they swing , Under the sunny sky . 
I wish we could wash from out hearts and souls The stains of the week away , And let water and air by their magic make Ourselves as pure as they . 
Then on the earth there would be indeed , A glorious washing day ! Along the path of a useful life , Will heartsease ever bloom . 
The busy mind has no time to think Of sorrow or care or gloom . 
And anxious thoughts may be swept away , As we bravely wield a broom . 
I read every morning , try to be good all day , and sing myself to sleep with Father's tune . 
I can't sing LAND OF THE LEAL' now , it makes me cry . 
Everyone is very kind , and we are as happy as we can be without you . 
Amy wants the rest of the page , so I must stop . 
I didn't forget to cover the holders , and I wind the clock and air the rooms every day . 
Kiss dear Father on the cheek he calls mine . 
Oh , do come soon to your loving . 
Meg is a great comfort to me and lets me have jelly every night at tea its so good for me Jo says because it keeps me sweet tempered . 
The sleeves of my blue dress were all worn out , and Meg put in new ones , but the full front came wrong and they are more blue than the dress . 
I felt bad but did not fret I bear my troubles well but I do wish Hannah would put more starch in my aprons and have buckwheats every day . 
Adieu , I send heaps of love to Papa . 
AMY CURTIS MARCH Dear Mis March , I jes drop a line to say we git on fust rate . 
The girls is clever and fly round right smart . 
Miss Meg is going to make a proper good housekeeper . 
She hes the liking for it , and gits the hang of things surprisin quick . 
Jo doos beat all for goin ahead , but she don't stop to cal'k'late fust , and you never know where she's like to bring up . 
Beth is the best of little creeters , and a sight of help to me , bein so forehanded and dependable . 
She tries to learn everything , and really goes to market beyond her years , likewise keeps accounts , with my help , quite wonderful . 
We have got on very economical so fur . 
I don't let the girls hev coffee only once a week , accordin to your wish , and keep em on plain wholesome vittles . 
Amy does well without frettin , wearin her best clothes and eatin sweet stuff . 
Mr. Laurie is as full of didoes as usual , and turns the house upside down frequent , but he heartens the girls , so I let em hev full swing . 
The old gentleman send heaps of things , and is rather wearin , but means wal , and it aint my place to say nothin . 
My bread is riz , so no more at this time . 
I send my duty to Mr. March , and hope he's seen the last of his Pewmonia . 
A salute of twenty four guns was fired on reciept of good news from Washington , and a dress parade took place at headquarters . 
Commander in chief sends best wishes , in which he is heartily joined by . 
COLONEL TEDDY Dear Madam The little girls are all well . 
Beth and my boy report daily . 
Hannah is a model servant , and guards pretty Meg like a dragon . 
Glad the fine weather holds . 
Pray make Brooke useful , and draw on me for funds if expenses exceed your estimate . 
Don't let your husband want anything . 
Thank God he is mending . 
Your sincere friend and servant , JAMES LAURENCE CHAPTER SEVENTEEN For a week the amount of virtue in the old house would have supplied the neighborhood . 
It was really amazing , for everyone seemed in a heavenly frame of mind , and self denial was all the fashion . 
Relieved of their first anxiety about their father , girls insensibly relaxed their praiseworthy efforts a little , and began to fall back into old ways . 
Jo liked this , and after an energetic rummage from garret to cellar , subsided on the sofa to nurse her cold with arsenicum and books . 
Amy found that housework and art did not go well together , and returned to her mud pies . 
Beth kept on , with only slight relapses into idleness or grieving . 
All were unconscious that this experience was a test of character , and when the first excitement was over , felt that they had done well and deserved praise . 
So they did , but their mistake was in ceasing to do well , and they learned this lesson through much anxiety and regret . 
Meg , I wish you'd go and see the Hummels . 
You know Mother told us not to forget them . 
said Beth , ten days after Mrs. March's departure . 
I'm too tired to go this afternoon , re lied Meg , rocking comfortably as she sewed . 
Can't you , Jo ? asked Beth . 
Too stormy for me with my cold . 
I thought it was almost well . 
Why don't you go yourself ? asked Meg . 
I have been every day , but the baby is sick , and I don't know what to do for it . 
Mrs. Hummel goes away to work , and Lottchen takes care of it . 
But it gets sicker and sicker , and I think you or Hannah ought to go . 
Beth spoke earnestly , and Meg promised she would go tomorrow . 
My head aches and I'm tired , so I thought maybe some of you would go , said Beth . 
Amy will be in presently , and she will run down for us , suggested Meg . 
So Beth lay down on the sofa , the others returned to their work , and the Hummels were forgotten . 
It was late when she came back , and no one saw her creep upstairs and shut herself into her mother's room . 
Why ? Then I'll tell you . 
Oh , Jo , the baby's dead ! What baby ? Mrs. Hummel's . 
It died in my lap before she got home , cried Beth with a sob . 
It seemed asleep , but all of a sudden if gave a little cry and trembled , and then lay very still . 
I tried to warm its feet , and Lotty gave it some milk , but it didn't stir , and I knew it was dead . 
Don't cry , dear ! What did you do ? I just sat and held it softly till Mrs. Hummel came with the doctor . 
He said it was dead , and looked at Heinrich and Minna , who have sore throats . 
Ought to have called me before , he said crossly . 
No , you won't ! cried Jo , hugging her close , with a frightened look . 
Oh , Beth , if you should be sick I never could forgive myself ! What shall we do ? Don't be frightened , I guess I shan't have it badly . 
If Mother was only at home ! exclaimed Jo , seizing the book , and feeling that Washington was an immense way off . 
I'll call Hannah , she knows all about sickness . 
She never had it , and I should hate to give it to her . 
Can't you and Meg have it over again ? asked Beth , anxiously . 
Don't care if I do . 
Serve me right , selfish pig , to let you go , and stay writing rubbish myself ! muttered Jo , as she went to consult Hannah . 
Now I'll tell you what we'll do , said Hannah , when she had examined and questioned Beth , we will have Dr . 
Bangs , just to take a look at you , dear , and see that we start right . 
I shall stay , of course , I'm oldest , began Meg , looking anxious and self reproachful . 
I shall , because it's my fault she is sick . 
I told Mother I'd do the errands , and I haven't , said Jo decidedly . 
Which will you have , Beth ? There ain't no need of but one , aid Hannah . 
And Beth leaned her head against her sister with a contented look , which effectually settled that point . 
I'll go and tell Amy , said Meg , feeling a little hurt , yet rather relieved on the whole , for she did not like nursing , and Jo did . 
Amy rebelled outright , and passionately declared that she had rather have the fever than go to Aunt March . 
Meg reasoned , pleaded , and commanded , all in vain . 
Amy protested that she would not go , and Meg left her in despair to ask Hannah what should be done . 
Before she came back , Laurie walked into the parlor to find Amy sobbing , with her head in the sofa cushions . 
Presently he sat down beside her , and said , in his most wheedlesome tone , Now be a sensible little woman , and do as they say . 
No , don't cry , but hear what a jolly plan I've got . 
You go to Aunt March's , and I'll come and take you out every day , driving or walking , and we'll have capital times . 
Won't that be better than moping here ? I don't wish to be sent off as if I was in the way , began Amy , in an injured voice . 
Bless your heart , child , it's to keep you well . 
You don't want to be sick , do you ? No , I'm sure I don't , but I dare say I shall be , for I've been with Beth all the time . 
That's the very reason you ought to go away at once , so that you may escape it . 
Change of air and care will keep you well , I dare say , or if it does not entirely , you will have the fever more lightly . 
I advise you to be off as soon as you can , for scarlet fever is no joke , miss . 
But it's dull at Aunt March's , and she is so cross , said Amy , looking rather frightened . 
It won't be dull with me popping in every day to tell you how Beth is , and take you out gallivanting . 
The old lady likes me , and I'll be as sweet as possible to her , so she won't peck at us , whatever we do . 
Will you take me out in the trotting wagon with Puck ? On my honor as a gentleman . 
And come every single day ? See if I don't And bring me back the minute Beth is well ? The identical minute . 
And go to the theater , truly ? A dozen theaters , if we may . 
Well I guess I will , said Amy slowly . 
Good girl ! Call Meg , and tell her you'll give in , said Laurie , with an approving pat , which annoyed Amy more than the giving in' . 
How is the little dear ? asked Laurie , for Beth was his especial pet , and he felt more anxious about her than he liked to show . 
She is lying down on Mother's bed , and feels better . 
The baby's death troubled her , but I dare say she has only got cold . 
Hannah says she thinks so , but she looks worried , and that makes me fidgety , answered Meg . 
What a trying world it is ! said Jo , rumpling up her hair in a fretful way . 
No sooner do we get out of one trouble than down comes another . 
There doesn't seem to be anything to hold on to when Mother's gone , so I'm all at sea . 
Well , don't make a porcupine of yourself , it isn't becoming . 
That is what troubles me , said Meg . 
I think we ought to tell her if Beth is really ill , but Hannah says we mustn't , for Mother can't leave Father , and it will only make them anxious . 
Hum , well , I can't say . 
Suppose you ask Grandfather after the doctor has been . 
Jo , go and get Dr . 
Bangs at once , commanded Meg . 
We can't decide anything till he has been . 
Stay where you are , Jo . 
I'm errand boy to this establishment , said Laurie , taking up his cap . 
I'm afraid you are busy , began Meg . 
No , I've done my lessons for the day . 
Do you study in vacation time ? asked Jo . 
I follow the good example my neighbors set me , was Laurie's answer , as he swung himself out of the room . 
I have great hopes for my boy , observed Jo , watching him fly over the fence with an approving smile . 
He does very well , for a boy , was Meg's somewhat ungracious answer , for the subject did not interest her . 
Bangs came , said Beth had symptoms of the fever , but he thought she would have it lightly , though he looked sober over the Hummel story . 
Amy was ordered off at once , and provided with something to ward off danger , she departed in great state , with Jo and Laurie as escort . 
Aunt March received them with her usual hospitality . 
What do you want now ? she asked , looking sharply over her spectacles , while the parrot , sitting on the back of her chair , called out . 
Laurie retired to the window , and Jo told her story . 
No more than I expected , if you are allowed to go poking about among poor folks . 
Amy can stay and make herself useful if she isn't sick , which I've no doubt she will be , looks like it now . 
Don't cry , child , it worries me to hear people sniff . 
What do you hear from your mother ? asked the old lady gruffly . 
Father is much better , replied Jo , trying to keep sober . 
Oh , is her ? Well , that won't last long , I fancy . 
March never had any stamina , was the cheerful reply . 
Hold your tongue , you disrespectful old bird ! And , Jo , you'd better go at once . 
It isn't proper to be gadding about so late with a rattlepated boy like . 
I don't think I can bear it , but I'll try , thought Amy , as she was left alone with Aunt March . 
Get along , you fright ! screamed Polly , and at that rude speech Amy could not restrain a sniff . 
CHAPTER EIGHTEEN Beth did have the fever , and was much sicker than anyone but Hannah and the doctor suspected . 
The girls knew nothing about illness , and Mr. Laurence was not allowed to see her , so Hannah had everything her own way , and busy Dr . 
Bangs did his best , but left a good deal to the excellent nurse . 
Jo devoted herself to Beth day and night , not a hard task , for Beth was very patient , and bore her pain uncomplainingly as long as she could control herself . 
Then Jo grew frightened , Meg begged to be allowed to write the truth , and even Hannah said she would think of it , though there was no danger yet' . 
A letter from Washington added to their trouble , for Mr. March had had a relapse , and could not think of coming home for a long while . 
Meanwhile she lay on her bed with old Joanna at her side , for even in her wanderings she did not forget her forlorn protege . 
She longed for her cats , but would not have them brought , lest they should get sick , and in her quiet hours she was full of anxiety about Jo . 
The first of December was a wintry day indeed to them , for a bitter wind blew , snow fell fast , and the year seemed getting ready for its death . 
She was soon back , and while noiselessly taking off her cloak , Laurie came in with a letter , saying that Mr. March was mending again . 
No. The doctor told us to . 
Oh , Jo , it's not so bad as that ? cried Laurie , with a startled face . 
She doesn't know us , she doesn't even talk about the flocks of green doves , as she calls the vine leaves on the wall . 
She doesn't look like my Beth , and there's nobody to help us bear it . 
Mother and father both gone , and God seems so far away I can't find Him . 
Laurie longed to say something tender and comfortable , but no fitting words came to him , so he stood silent , gently stroking her bent head as her mother used to do . 
Soon she dried the tears which had relieved her , and looked up with a grateful face . 
Thank you , Teddy , I'm better now . 
I don't feel so forlorn , and will try to bear it if it comes . 
Keep hoping for the best , that will help you , Jo . 
Soon your mother will be here , and then everything will be all right . 
I'm so glad Father is better . 
Now she won't feel so bad about leaving him . 
Doesn't Meg pull fair ? asked Laurie , looking indignant . 
Oh , yes , she tries to , but she can't love Bethy as I do , and she won't miss her as I shall . 
Beth is my conscience , and I can't give her up . 
I can't ! I can't ! Down went Jo's face into the wet handkerchief , and she cried despairingly , for she had kept up bravely till now and never shed a tear . 
Laurie drew his hand across his eyes , but could not speak till he had subdued the choky feeling in his throat and steadied his lips . 
It might be unmanly , but he couldn't help it , and I am glad of it . 
Presently , as Jo's sobs quieted , he said hopefully , I don't think she will die . 
She's so good , and we all love her so much , I don't believe God will take her away yet . 
The good and dear people always do die , groaned Jo , but she stopped crying , for her friend's words cheered her up in spite of her own doubts and fears . 
Poor girl , you're worn out . 
It isn't like you to be forlorn . 
I'll hearten you up in a jiffy . 
How can I ever pay you ? she added , as the wine refreshed her body , as the kind words had done her troubled mind . 
What is it ? cried Jo , forgetting her woes for a minute in her wonder . 
I telegraphed to your mother yesterday , and Brooke answered she'd come at once , and she'll be here tonight , and everything will be all right . 
Laurie , though decidedly amazed , behaved with great presence of mind . 
He patted her back soothingly , and finding that she was recovering , followed it up by a bashful kiss or two , which brought Jo round at once . 
Tell me all about it , and don't give me wine again , it makes me act so . 
I don't mind , laughed Laurie , as he settled his tie . 
Why , you see I got fidgety , and so did Grandpa . 
We thought Hannah was overdoing the authority business , and your mother ought to know . 
She'd never forgive us if Beth . 
Well , if anything happened , you know . 
I never can bear to be lorded over' , so that settled my mind , and I did it . 
Laurie , you're an angel ! How shall I ever thank you ? Fly at me again . 
I rather liked it , said Laurie , looking mischievous , a thing he had not done for a fortnight . 
I'll do it by proxy , when your grandpa comes . 
Don't tease , but go home and rest , for you'll be up half the night . 
A breath of fresh air seemed to blow through the house , and something better than sunshine brightened the quiet rooms . 
Everything appeared to feel the hopeful change . 
Beth's bird began to chirp again , and a half blown rose was discovered on Amy's bush in the window . 
She lay in that heavy stupor , alike unconscious of hope and joy , doubt and danger . 
All day she say so , only rousing now and then to mutter , Water ! with lips so parched they could hardly shape the word . 
The doctor had been in to say that some change , for better or worse , would probably take place about midnight , at which time he would return . 
Laurie lay on the rug , pretending to rest , but staring into the fire with the thoughtful look which made his black eyes beautifully soft and clear . 
The girls never forgot that night , for no sleep came to them as they kept their watch , with that dreadful sense of powerlessness which comes to us in hours like those . 
If God spares Beth , I never will complain again , whispered Meg earnestly . 
If god spares Beth , I'll try to love and serve Him all my life , answered Jo , with equal fervor . 
I wish I had no heart , it aches so , sighed Meg , after a pause . 
If life is often as hard as this , I don't see how we ever shall get through it , added her sister despondently . 
Here the clock struck twelve , and both forgot themselves in watching Beth , for they fancied a change passed over her wan face . 
The house was still as death , and nothing but the wailing of the wind broke the deep hush . 
Weary Hannah slept on , and no one but the sisters saw the pale shadow which seemed to fall upon the little bed . 
An hour went by , and nothing happened except Laurie's quiet departure for the station . 
A dreadful fear passed coldly over Jo , as she thought , Beth is dead , and Meg is afraid to tell me . 
She was back at her post in an instant , and to her excited eyes a great change seemed to have taken place . 
Leaning low over this dearest of her sisters , she kissed the damp forehead with her heart on her lips , and softly whispered , Goodby , my Beth . 
Praise be given ! Oh , my goodness me ! Before the girls could believe the happy truth , the doctor came to confirm it . 
Keep the house quiet , let her sleep , and when she wakes , give her . 
If Mother would only come now ! said Jo , as the winter night began to wane . 
It looks like a fairy world , said Meg , smiling to herself , as she stood behind the curtain , watching the dazzling sight . 
Hark ! cried Jo , starting to her feet . 
She felt her exile deeply , and for the first time in her life , realized how much she was beloved and petted at home . 
Aunt March never petted any one . 
She really did her best to make Amy happy , but , dear me , what mistakes she made . 
But Aunt March had not this gift , and she worried Amy very much with her rules and orders , her prim ways , and long , prosy talks . 
She had to wash the cups every morning , and polish up the old fashioned spoons , the fat silver teapot , and the glasses till they shone . 
Then she must dust the room , and what a trying job that was . 
Not a speck escaped Aunt March's eye , and all the furniture had claw legs and much carving , which was never dusted to suit . 
After these tiresome labors , she must do her lessons , which was a daily trial of every virtue she possessed . 
Then patchwork or towels appeared , and Amy sewed with outward meekness and inward rebellion till dusk , when she was allowed to amuse herself as she liked till teatime . 
If it had not been for Laurie , and old Esther , the maid , she felt that she never could have got through that dreadful time . 
The parrot alone was enough to drive her distracted , for he soon felt that she did not admire him , and revenged himself by being as mischievous as possible . 
The cook was bad tempered , the old coachman was deaf , and Esther the only one who ever took any notice of the young lady . 
Her real name was Estelle , but Aunt March ordered her to change it , and she obeyed , on condition that she was never asked to change her religion . 
She took a fancy to Mademoiselle , and amused her very much with odd stories of her life in France , when Amy sat with her while she got up Madam's laces . 
To examine and arrange these things gave Amy great satisfaction , especially the jewel cases , in which on velvet cushions reposed the ornaments which had adorned a belle forty years ago . 
Which would Mademoiselle choose if she had her will ? asked Esther , wo always sat near to watch over and lock up the valuables . 
I like the diamonds best , but there is no necklace among them , and I'm fond of necklaces , they are so becoming . 
I should choose this if I might , replied Amy , looking with great admiration at a string of gold and ebony beads from which hung a heavy cross of the same . 
I , too , covet that , but not as a necklace . 
Ah , no ! To me it is a rosary , and as such I should use it like a good catholic , said Esther , eyeing the handsome thing wistfully . 
Is it meant to use as you use the string of good smelling wooden beads hanging over your glass ? asked Amy . 
Truly , yes , to pray with . 
It would be pleasing to the saints if one used so fine a rosary as this , instead of wearing it as a vain bijou . 
You seem to take a great deal of comfort in your prayers , Esther , and always come down looking quiet and satisfied . 
She had a little chapel , and in it found solacement for much trouble . 
It would be excellent and charming , and I shall gladly arrange the little dressing room for you if you like it . 
Say nothing to Madame , but when she sleeps go you and sit alone a while to think good thoughts , and pray the dear God preserve your sister . 
Esther was truly pious , and quite sincere in her advice , for she had an affectionate heart , and felt much for the sisters in their anxiety . 
Amy liked the idea , and gave her leave to arrange the light closet next her room , hoping it would do her good . 
To you and your sisters . 
I know it , Madame confides in me . 
I witnessed her will , and it is to be so , whispered Esther smiling . 
How nice ! But I wish she'd let us have them now . 
Procrastination is not agreeable , observed Amy , taking a last look at the diamonds . 
It is too soon yet for the young ladies to wear these things . 
Do you think so ? Oh , I'll be a lamb , if I can only have that lovely ring ! It's ever so much prettier than Kitty Bryant's . 
I do like Aunt March after all . 
And Amy tried on the blue ring with a delighted face and a firm resolve to earn it . 
From that day she was a model of obedience , and the old lady complacently admired the success of her training . 
Esther fitted up the closet with a little table , placed a footstool before it , and over it a picture taken from one of the shut up rooms . 
She thought it was of no great value , but , being appropriate , she borrowed it , well knowing that Madame would never know it , nor care if she did . 
She missed her mother's help to understand and rule herself , but having been taught where to look , she did her best to find the way and walk in it confidingly . 
But Amy was a young pilgrim , and just now her burden seemed very heavy . 
She tried to forget herself , to keep cheerful , and be satisfied with doing right , though no one saw or praised her for it . 
It cost her a pang even to think of giving up the little treasures which in her eyes were as precious as the old lady's jewels . 
As it was a rainy day , she went upstairs to amuse herself in one of the large chambers , and took Polly with her for company . 
That bird is the trial of my life , she continued , removing the pink mountain from her head , while Laurie seated himself astride a chair . 
I poked it out , and it ran under the bookcase . 
I couldn't help laughing , which made Poll swear , and Aunt woke up and scolded us both . 
Did the spider accept the old fellow's invitation ? asked Laurie , yawning . 
That's a lie ! Oh , lor ! cried the parrot , pecking at Laurie's toes . 
I want you to read that , please , and tell me if it is legal and right . 
I felt I ought to do it , for life is uncertain and I don't want any ill feeling over my tomb . 
to wit namely To my father , my best pictures , sketches , maps , and works of art , including frames . 
Also my , to do what he likes with . 
To my mother , all my clothes , except the blue apron with pockets also my likeness , and my medal , with much love . 
, also my green box with the doves on it , also my piece of real lace for her neck , and my sketch of her as a memorial of her 'little girl' . 
I give my dolls and the little bureau , my fan , my linen collars and my new slippers if she can wear them being thin when she gets well . 
And I herewith also leave her my regret that I ever made fun of old Joanna . 
To my friend and neighbor Theodore Laurence I bequeethe my paper mashay portfolio , my clay model of a horse though he did say it hadn't any neck . 
Also in return for his great kindness in the hour of affliction any one of my artistic works he likes , Noter Dame is the best . 
I wish my favorite playmate Kitty Bryant to have the blue silk apron and my gold bead ring with a kiss . 
To Hannah I give the bandbox she wanted and all the patchwork I leave hoping she will remember me , when it you see' . 
And now having disposed of my most valuable property I hope all will be satisfied and not blame the dead . 
I forgive everyone , and trust we may all meet when the trump shall sound . 
To this will and testiment I set my hand and seal on this th day of Nov . 
Amy Curtis March Witnesses Estelle Valnor , Theodore Laurence . 
The last name was written in pencil , and Amy explained that he was to rewrite it in ink and seal it up for her properly . 
She explained and then asked anxiously , What about Beth ? I'm sorry I spoke , but as I did , I'll tell you . 
She was sorry she had so little to give , and left locks of hair to the rest of us , and her best love to Grandpa . 
She never thought of a will . 
Laurie was signing and sealing as he spoke , and did not look up till a great tear dropped on the paper . 
Amy's face was full of trouble , but she only said , Don't people put sort of postscripts to their wills , sometimes ? Yes , codicils' , they call them . 
Put one in mine then , that I wish all my curls cut off , and given round to my friends . 
I forgot it , but I want it done though it will spoil my looks . 
Laurie added it , smiling at Amy's last and greatest sacrifice . 
Then he amused her for an hour , and was much interested in all her trials . 
And Laurie put his arm about her with a brotherly gesture which was very comforting . 
CHAPTER TWENTY I don't think I have any words in which to tell the meeting of the mother and daughters . 
Too weak to wonder at anything , she only smiled and nestled close in the loving arms about her , feeling that the hungry longing was satisfied at last . 
Then she slept again , and the girls waited upon their mother , for she would not unclasp the thin hand which clung to hers even in sleep . 
What a strange yet pleasant day that was . 
So brilliant and gay without , for all the world seemed abroad to welcome the first snow . 
So quiet and reposeful within , for everyone slept , spent with watching , and a Sabbath stillness reigned through the house , while nodding Hannah mounted guard at the door . 
With a blissful sense of burdens lifted off , Meg and Jo closed their weary eyes , and lay at rest , like storm beaten boats safe at anchor in a quiet harbor . 
Laurie meanwhile posted off to comfort Amy , and told his story so well that Aunt March actually sniffed' herself , and never once said I told you so . 
Amy came out so strong on this occasion that I think the good thoughts in the little chapel really began to bear fruit . 
They were alone together in the chapel , to which her mother did not object when its purpose was explained to her . 
On the contrary , I like it very much , dear , looking from the dusty rosary to the well worn little book , and the lovely picture with its garland of evergreen . 
It is an excellent plan to have some place where we can go to be quiet , when things vex or grieve us . 
There are a good many hard times in this life of ours , but we can always bear them if we ask help in the right way . 
I think my little girl is learning this . 
The woman's face is not good , it's too beautiful for me to draw , but the baby is done better , and I love it very much . 
I like to think He was a little child once , for then I don't seem so far away , and that helps me . 
As Amy pointed to the smiling Christ child on his Mother's knee , Mrs. March saw something on the lifted hand that made her smile . 
She said nothing , but Amy understood the look , and after a minute's pause , she added gravely , I wanted to speak to you about this , but I forgot it . 
Aunt gave me the ring today . 
She called me to her and kissed me , and put it on my finger , and said I was a credit to her , and she'd like to keep me always . 
She gave that funny guard to keep the turquoise on , as it's too big . 
I'll try not to be vain , said Amy . 
I don't think I like it only because it's so pretty , but I want to wear it as the girl in the story wore her bracelet , to remind me of something . 
Do you mean Aunt March ? asked her mother , laughing . 
No , to remind me not to be selfish . 
Amy looked so earnest and sincere about it that her mother stopped laughing , and listened respectfully to the little plan . 
Beth isn't selfish , and that's the reason everyone loves her and feels so bad at the thoughts of losing her . 
I'm apt to forget my resolutions , but if I had something always about me to remind me , I guess I should do better . 
May we try this way ? Yes , but I have more faith in the corner of the big closet . 
Wear your ring , dear , and do your best . 
I think you will prosper , for the sincere wish to be good is half the battle . 
Now I must go back to Beth . 
Keep up your heart , little daughter , and we will soon have you home again . 
What is it , deary ? asked Mrs. March , holding out her hand , with a face which invited confidence . 
I want to tell you something , Mother . 
About Meg ? How quickly you guessed ! Yes , it's about her , and though it's a little thing , it fidgets me . 
Speak low , and tell me all about it . 
That Moffat hasn't been here , I hope ? asked Mrs. March rather sharply . 
No. I should have shut the door in his face if he had , said Jo , settling herself on the floor at her mother's feet . 
Last summer Meg left a pair of gloves over at the Laurences' and only one was returned . 
We forgot about it , till Teddy told me that Mr. Brooke owned that he liked Meg but didn't dare say so , she was so young and he so poor . 
Now , isn't it a dreadful state of things ? Do you think Meg cares for him ? asked Mrs. March , with an anxious look . 
Mercy me ! I don't know anything about love and such nonsense ! cried Jo , with a funny mixture of interest and contempt . 
In novels , the girls show it by starting and blushing , fainting away , growing thin , and acting like fools . 
Now Meg does not do anything of the sort . 
I forbid him to do it , but he doesn't mind me as he ought . 
Then you fancy that Meg is not interested in John ? Who ? cried Jo , staring . 
I call him John' now . 
We fell into the way of doing so at the hospital , and he likes it . 
Oh , dear ! I know you'll take his part . 
He's been good to Father , and you won't send him away , but let Meg marry him , if she wants to . 
Mean thing ! To go petting Papa and helping you , just to wheedle you into liking him . 
And Jo pulled her hair again with a wrathful tweak . 
My dear , don't get angry about it , and I will tell you how it happened . 
John went with me at Mr. Laurence's request , and was so devoted to poor Father that we couldn't help getting fond of him . 
He was perfectly open and honorable about Meg , for he told us he loved her , but would earn a comfortable home before he asked her to marry him . 
He only wanted our leave to love her and work for her , and the right to make her love him if he could . 
He is a truly excellent young man , and we could not refuse to listen to him , but I will not consent to Meg's engaging herself so young . 
It would be idiotic ! I knew there was mischief brewing . 
I felt it , and now it's worse than I imagined . 
I just wish I could marry Meg myself , and keep her safe in the family . 
This odd arrangement made Mrs. March smile , but she said gravely , Jo , I confide in you and don't wish you to say anything to Meg yet . 
When John comes back , and I see them together , I can judge better of her feelings toward him . 
She'll see those handsome eyes that she talks about , and then it will be all up with her . 
She's got such a soft heart , it will melt like butter in the sun if anyone looks sentimentlly at her . 
I see it all ! They'll go lovering around the house , and we shall have to dodge . 
Meg will be absorbed and no good to me any more . 
Brooke will scratch up a fortune somehow , carry her off , and make a hole in the family , and I shall break my heart , and everything will be abominably uncomfortable . 
Oh , dear me ! Why weren't we all boys , then there wouldn't be any bother . 
Jo leaned her chin on her knees in a disconsolate attitude and shook her fist at the reprehensible John . 
Mrs. March sighed , and Jo looked up with an air of relief . 
You don't like it , Mother ? I'm glad of it . 
Let's send him about his business , and not tell Meg a word of it , but all be happy together as we always have been . 
I did wrong to sigh , Jo . 
Your father and I have agreed that she shall not bind herself in any way , nor be married , before twenty . 
If she and John love one another , they can wait , and test the love by doing so . 
She is conscientious , and I have no fear of her treating him unkindly . 
My pretty , tender hearted girl ! I hope things will go happily with her . 
Hadn't you rather have her marry a rich man ? asked Jo , as her mother's voice faltered a little over the last words . 
Money is a good and useful thing , Jo , and I hope my girls will never feel the need of it too bitterly not be tempted by too much . 
I should like to know that John was firmly established in some good business , which gave him an income large enough to keep free from debt and make Meg comfortable . 
I'm not ambitious for a splendid fortune , a fashionable position , or a great name for my girls . 
Wouldn't it be nice ? asked Jo , looking up with a brighter face . 
He is younger than she , you know , began Mrs. March , but Jo broke in . 
Only a little , he's old for his age , and tall , and can be quite grown up in his manners if he likes . 
Then he's rich and generous and good , and loves us all , and I say it's a pity my plan is spoiled . 
I'm afraid Laurie is hardly grown up enough for Meg , and altogether too much of a weathercock just now for anyone to depend on . 
Don't make plans , Jo , but let time and their own hearts mate your friends . 
We can't meddle safely in such matters , and had better not get romantic rubbish' as you call it , into our heads , lest it spoil our friendship . 
Well , I won't , but I hate to see things going all crisscross and getting snarled up , when a pull her and a snip there would straighten it out . 
I wish wearing flatirons on our heads would keep us from growing up . 
Only one of my stupid speeches . 
Come , Peggy , said Jo , unfolding herself like an animated puzzle . 
Quite right , and beautifully written . 
Please add that I send my love to John , said Mrs. March , as she glanced over the letter and gave it back . 
Do you call him John' ? asked Meg , smiling , with her innocent eyes looking down into her mother's . 
Yes , he has been like a son to us , and we are very fond of him , replied Mrs. March , returning the look with a keen one . 
I'm glad of that , he is so lonely . 
Good night , Mother , dear . 
It is so inexpressibly comfortable to have you here , was Meg's answer . 
CHAPTER TWENTY ONE Jo's face was a study next day , for the secret rather weighed upon her , and she found it hard not to look mysterious and important . 
This left Jo to her own devices , for Mrs. March had taken her place as nurse , and bade her rest , exercise , and amuse herself after her long confinement . 
She was quite right , for the mischief loving lad no sooner suspected a mystery than he set himself to find it out , and led Jo a trying life of it . 
Feeling indignant that he was not taken into his tutor's confidence , he set his wits to work to devise some proper retaliation for the slight . 
She started when spoken to , blushed when looked at , was very quiet , and sat over her sewing , with a timid , troubled look on her face . 
To her mother's inquiries she answered that she was quite well , and Jo's she silenced by begging to be let alone . 
She feels it in the air love , I mean and she's going very fast . 
She's got most of the symptoms is twittery and cross , doesn't eat , lies awake , and mopes in corners . 
I caught her singing that song he gave her , and once she said John' , as you do , and then turned as red as a poppy . 
whatever shall we do ? said Jo , looking ready for any measures , however violent . 
Let her alone , be kind and patient , and Father's coming will settle everything , replied her mother . 
Here's a note to you , Meg , all sealed up . 
How odd ! Teddy never seals mine , said Jo next day , as she distributed the contents of the little post office . 
Mrs. March and Jo were deep in their own affairs , when a sound from Meg made them look up to see her staring at her note with a frightened face . 
My child , what is it ? cried her mother , running to her , while Jo tried to take the paper which had done the mischief . 
It's all a mistake , he didn't send it . 
Oh , Jo , how could you do it ? and Meg hid her face in her hands , crying as if her heart were quite broken . 
Me ! I've done nothing ! What's she talking about ? cried Jo , bewildered . 
My Dearest Margaret , I can no longer restrain my passion , and must know my fate before I return . 
I dare not tell your parents yet , but I think they would consent if they knew that we adored one another . 
Mr. Laurence will help me to some good place , and then , my sweet girl , you will make me happy . 
I implore you to say nothing to your family yet , but to send one word of hope through Laurie to , Your devoted John . 
Oh , the little villain ! That's the way he meant to pay me for keeping my word to Mother . 
I'll give him a hearty scolding and bring him over to beg pardon , cried Jo , burning to execute immediate justice . 
But her mother held her back , saying , with a look she seldom wore . 
Stop , Jo , you must clear yourself first . 
You have played so many pranks that I am afraid you have had a hand in this . 
If I had taken part in it I'd have done it better than this , and have written a sensible note . 
I should think you'd have known Mr. Brooke wouldn't write such stuff as that , she added , scornfully tossing down the paper . 
It's like his writing , faltered Meg , comparing it with the note in her hand . 
Oh , Meg , you didn't answer it ? cried Mrs. March quickly . 
Yes , I did ! and Meg hid her face again , overcome with shame . 
Here's a scrape ! Do let me bring that wicked boy over to explain and be lectured . 
I can't rest till I get hold of him . 
And Jo made for the door again . 
Hush ! Let me handle this , for it is worse than I thought . 
Margaret , tell me the whole story , commanded Mrs. March , sitting down by Meg , yet keeping hold of Jo , lest she should fly off . 
I received the first letter from Laurie , who didn't look as if he knew anything about it , began Meg , without looking up . 
Forgive me , Mother , I'm paid for my silliness now . 
I never can look him in the face again . 
What did you say to him ? asked Mrs. March . 
I only said I was too young to do anything about it yet , that I didn't wish to have secrets from you , and he must speak to father . 
I was very grateful for his kindness , and would be his friend , but nothing more , for a long while . 
All of a sudden she stopped , caught up the two notes , and after looking at them closely , said decidedly , I don't believe Brooke ever saw either of these letters . 
Teddy wrote both , and keeps yours to crow over me with because I wouldn't tell him my secret . 
Don't have any secrets , Jo . 
Tell it to Mother and keep out of trouble , as I should have done , said Meg warningly . 
Bless you , child ! Mother told me . 
That will do , Jo . 
I'll comfort Meg while you go and get Laurie . 
I shall sift the matter to the bottom , and put a stop to such pranks at once . 
Away ran Jo , and Mrs. March gently told Meg Mr. Brooke's real feelings . 
If John doesn't know anything about this nonsense , don't tell him , and make Jo and Laurie hold their tongues . 
I won't be deceived and plagued and made a fool of . 
The instant Laurie's step was heard in the hall , Meg fled into the study , and Mrs. March received the culprit alone . 
Jo was dismissed , but chose to march up and down the hall like a sentinel , having some fear that the prisoner might bolt . 
The sound of voices in the parlor rose and fell for half an hour , but what happened during that interview the girls never knew . 
Meg received his humble apology , and was much comforted by the assurance that Brooke knew nothing of the joke . 
Jo stood aloof , meanwhile , trying to harden her heart against him , and succeeding only in primming up her face into an expression of entire disapprobation . 
As soon as he had gone , she wished she had been more forgiving , and when Meg and her mother went upstairs , she felt lonely and longed for Teddy . 
After resisting for some time , she yielded to the impulse , and armed with a book to return , went over to the big house . 
Is Mr. Laurence in ? asked Jo , of a housemaid , who was coming downstairs . 
Yes , Miss , but I don't believe he's seeable just yet . 
Where is Laurie ? Shut up in his room , and he won't answer , though I've been a tapping . 
I don't know what's to become of the dinner , for it's ready , and there's no one to eat it . 
I'll go and see what the matter is . 
I'm not afraid of either of them . 
Up went Jo , and knocked smartly on the door of Laurie's little study . 
Stop that , or I'll open the door and make you ! called out the young gentleman in a threatening tone . 
The door flew open , and in she bounced before Laurie could recover from his surprise . 
I came to make it up , and can't go away till I have . 
Get up , and don't be a goose , Jo , was the cavalier reply to her petition . 
Thank you , I will . 
Could I ask what's the matter ? You don't look exactly easy in your mind . 
I've been shaken , and I won't bear it ! growled Laurie indignantly . 
Who did it ? demanded Jo . 
If it had been anyone else I'd have . 
And the injured youth finished his sentence by an energetic gesture of the right arm . 
I often shake you , and you don't mind , said Jo soothingly . 
Why were you treated so ? Just because I wouldn't say what your mother wanted me for . 
I'd promised not to tell , and of course I wasn't going to break my word . 
Couldn't you satisfy your grandpa in any other way ? No , he would have the truth , the whole truth , and nothing but the truth . 
I'd have told my part of the scrape , if I could without bringing Meg in . 
As I couldn't , I held my tongue , and bore the scolding till the old gentleman collared me . 
Then I bolted , for fear I should forget myself . 
It wasn't nice , but he's sorry , I know , so go down and make up . 
Hanged if I do ! I'm not going to be lectured and pummelled by everyone , just for a bit of a frolic . 
I was sorry about Meg , and begged pardon like a man , but I won't do it again , when I wasn't in the wrong . 
He ought to trust me , and not act as if I was a baby . 
It's no use , Jo , he's got to learn that I'm able to take care of myself , and don't need anyone's apron string to hold on by . 
What pepper pots you are ! sighed Jo . 
How do you mean to settle this affair ? Well , he ought to beg pardon , and believe me when I say I can't tell him what the fuss's about . 
Bless you ! He won't do that . 
I won't go down till he does . 
Now , Teddy , be sensible . 
Let it pass , and I'll explain what I can . 
You can't stay here , so what's the use of being melodramatic ? I don't intend to stay here long , anyway . 
I'll slip off and take a journey somewhere , and when Grandpa misses me he'll come round fast enough . 
I dare say , but you ought not to go and worry him . 
I'll go to Washington and see Brooke . 
It's gay there , and I'll enjoy myself after the troubles . 
What fun you'd have ! I wish I could run off too , said Jo , forgetting her part of mentor in lively visions of martial life at the capital . 
Come on , then ! Why not ? You go and surprise your father , and I'll stir up old Brooke . 
It would be a glorious joke . 
Let's do it , Jo . 
We'll leave a letter saying we are all right , and trot off at once . 
It will do you good , and no harm , as you go to your father . 
For a moment Jo looked as if she would agree , for wild as the plan was , it just suited her . 
She was tired of care and confinement , longed for change , and thoughts of her father blended temptingly with the novel charms of camps and hospitals , liberty and fun . 
Her eyes kindled as they turned wistfully toward the window , but they fell on the old house opposite , and she shook her head with sorrowful decision . 
If I was a boy , we'd run away together , and have a capital time , but as I'm a miserable girl , I must be proper and stop at home . 
Don't tempt me , Teddy , it's a crazy plan . 
That's the fun of it , began Laurie , who had got a willful fit on him and was possessed to break out of bounds in some way . 
Hold your tongue ! cried Jo , covering her ears . 
Prunes and prisms' are my doom , and I may as well make up my mind to it . 
I came here to moralize , not to hear things that make me skip to think of . 
I know Meg would wet blanket such a proposal , but I thought you had more spirit , began Laurie insinuatingly . 
Bad boy , be quiet ! Sit down and think of your own sins , don't go making me add to mine . 
If I get your grandpa to apologize for the shaking , will you give up running away ? asked Jo seriously . 
Yes , but you won't do it , answered Laurie , who wished to make up , but felt that his outraged dignity must be appeased first . 
Come in ! And Mr. Laurence's gruff voice sounded gruffer than ever , as Jo tapped at his door . 
It's only me , Sir , come to return a book , she said blandly , as she entered . 
Want any more ? asked the old gentleman , looking grim and vexed , but trying not to show it . 
The shaggy eyebrows unbent a little as he rolled the steps toward the shelf where the Johnsonian literature was placed . 
Jo skipped up , and sitting on the top step , affected to be searching for her book , but was really wondering how best to introduce the dangerous object of her visit . 
What has that boy been about ? Don't try to shield him . 
I know he has been in mischief by the way he acted when he came home . 
I can't get a word from him , and when I threatened to shake the truth out of him he bolted upstairs and locked himself into his room . 
He did wrong , but we forgave him , and all promised not to say a word to anyone , began Jo reluctantly . 
He shall not shelter himself behind a promise from you softhearted girls . 
If he's done anything amiss , he shall confess , beg pardon , and be punished . 
Out with it , Jo . 
I won't be kept in the dark . 
Indeed , Sir , I cannot tell . 
Laurie has confessed , asked pardon , and been punished quite enough . 
We don't keep silence to shield him , but someone else , and it will make more trouble if you interfere . 
It was partly my fault , but it's all right now . 
So let's forget it , and talk about the RAMBLER or something pleasant . 
Hang the RAMBLER ! Come down and give me your word that this harum scarum boy of mine hasn't done anything ungrateful or impertinent . 
If he has , after all your kindness to him , I'll thrash him with my own hands . 
She obediently descended , and made as light of the prank as she could without betraying Meg or forgetting the truth . 
well , if the boy held his tongue because he promised , and not from obstinacy , I'll forgive him . 
You think I'm not kind to him , hey ? was the sharp answer . 
Oh , dear no , Sir . 
You are rather too kind sometimes , and then just a trifle hasty when he tries your patience . 
Don't you think you are ? Jo was determined to have it out now , and tried to look quite placid , though she quaked a little after her bold speech . 
I'll tell you , he'll run away . 
Jo was sorry for that speech the minute it was made . 
She meant to warn him that Laurie would not bear much restraint , and hoped he would be more forebearing with the lad . 
Mr. Laurence's ruddy face changed suddenly , and he sat down , with a troubled glance at the picture of a handsome man , which hung over his table . 
It was Laurie's father , who had run away in his youth , and married against the imperious old man's will . 
Jo fancied her remembered and regretted the past , and she wished she had held her tongue . 
He won't do it unless he is very much worried , and only threatens it sometimes , when he gets tired of studying . 
She laughed as she spoke , and Mr. Laurence looked relieved , evidently taking the whole as a joke . 
Go and bring that boy down to his dinner , tell him it's all right , and advise him not to put on tragedy airs with his grandfather . 
He won't come , Sir . 
He feels badly because you didn't believe him when he said he couldn't tell . 
I think the shaking hurt his feelings very much . 
Jo tried to look pathetic but must have failed , for Mr. Laurence began to laugh , and she knew the day was won . 
I'm sorry for that , and ought to thank him for not shaking me , I suppose . 
What the dickens does the fellow expect ? And the old gentleman looked a trifle ashamed of his own testiness . 
If I were you , I'd write him an apology , Sir . 
He says he won't come down till he has one , and talks about Washington , and goes on in an absurd way . 
A formal apology will make him see how foolish he is , and bring him down quite amiable . 
He likes fun , and this was is better than talking . 
I'll carry it up , and teach him his duty . 
Mr. Laurence gave her a sharp look , and put on his spectacles , saying slowly , You're a sly puss , but I don't mind being managed by you and Beth . 
Here , give me a bit of paper , and let us have done with this nonsense . 
The note was written in the terms which one gentleman would use to another after offering some deep insult . 
No , he was pretty mild , on the whole . 
AH ! I got it all round . 
Even you cast me off over there , and I felt just ready to go to the deuce , he began apologetically . 
Don't talk that way , turn over a new leaf and begin again , Teddy , my son . 
Go and eat your dinner , you'll feel better after it . 
Men always croak when they are hungry , and Jo whisked out at the front door after that . 
Everyone thought the matter ended and the little cloud blown over , but the mischief was done , for though others forgot it , Meg remembered . 
CHAPTER TWENTY TWO Like sunshine after a storm were the peaceful weeks which followed . 
The invalids improved rapidly , and Mr. March began to talk or returning early in the new year . 
Her once active limbs were so stiff and feeble that Jo took her for a daily airing about the house in her strong arms . 
Laurie was equally impracticable , and would have had bonfires , skyrockets , and triumphal arches , if he had had his own way . 
After many skirmishes and snubbings , the ambitious pair were considered effectually quenched and went about with forlorn faces , which were rather belied by explosions of laughter when the two got together . 
Several days of unusually mild weather fitly ushered in a splendid Christmas Day . 
The Unquenchables had done their best to be worthy of the name , for like elves they had worked by night and conjured up a comical surprise . 
THE JUNGFRAU TO BETH God bless you , dear Queen Bess ! May nothing you dismay , But health and peace and happiness Be yours , this Christmas day . 
Here's fruit to feed our busy bee , And flowers for her nose . 
Accept a ribbon red , I beg , For Madam Purrer's tail , And ice cream made by lovely Peg , A Mont Blanc in a pail . 
Their dearest love my makers laid Within my breast of snow . 
Accept it , and the Alpine maid , From Laurie and from Jo . 
How Beth laughed when she saw it , how Laurie ran up and down to bring in the gifts , and what ridiculous speeches Jo made as she presented them . 
So am I , added Jo , slapping the pocket wherein reposed the long desired UNDINE AND SINTRAM . 
I'm sure I am , echoed Amy , poring over the engraved copy of the Madonna and Child , which her mother had given her in a pretty frame . 
Of course I am ! cried Meg , smoothing the silvery folds of her first sild dress , for Mr. Laurence had insisted on giving it . 
Now and then , in this workaday world , things do happen in the delightful storybook fashion , and what a comfort it is . 
Half an hour after everyone had said they were so happy they could only hold one drop more , the drop came . 
Laurie opened the parlor door and popped his head in very quietly . 
Of course there was a general stampede , and for several minutes everybody seemed to lose their wits , for the strangest things were done , and no one said a word . 
Mr. March became invisible in the embrace of four pairs of loving arms . 
Jo disgraced herself by nearly fainting away , and had to be doctored by Laurie in the china closet . 
Mr. Brooke kissed Meg entirely by mistake , as he somewhat incoherently explained . 
And Amy , the dignified , tumbled over a stool , and never stopping to get up , hugged and cried over her father's boots in the most touching manner . 
Mrs. March was the first to recover herself , and held up her hand with a warning , Hush ! Remember Beth . 
But it was too late . 
The study door flew open , the little red wrapper appeared on the threshold , joy put strength into the feeble limbs , and Beth ran straight into her father's arms . 
Never mind what happened just after that , for the full hearts overflowed , washing away the bitterness of the past and leaving only the sweetness of the present . 
Then the two invalids were ordered to repose , which they did , by both sitting in one big chair and talking hard . 
Also why Mrs. March gently nodded her head and asked , rather abruptly , if he wouldn't like to have something to eat . 
The fat turkey was a sight to behold , when Hannah sent him up , stuffed , browned , and decorated . 
So was the plum pudding , which melted in one's mouth , likewise the jellies , in which Amy reveled like a fly in a honeypot . 
Mr. Laurence and his grandson dined with them , also Mr. Brooke , at whom Jo glowered darkly , to Laurie's infinite amusement . 
Two easy chairs stood side by side at the head of the table , in which sat Beth and her father , feasting modestly on chicken and a little fruit . 
They drank healths , told stories , sang songs , reminisced' , as the old folks say , and had a thoroughly good time . 
Just a year ago we were groaning over the dismal Christmas we expected to have . 
Do you remember ? asked Jo , breaking a short pause which had followed a long conversation about many things . 
Rather a pleasant year on the whole ! said Meg , smiling at the fire , and congratulating herself on having treated Mr. Brooke with dignity . 
I think it's been a pretty hard one , observed Amy , watching the light shine on her ring with thoughtful eyes . 
i'm glad it's over , because we've got you back , whispered Beth , who sat on her father's knee . 
Rather a rough road for you to travel , my little pilgrims , especially the latter part of it . 
How do you know ? Did Mother tell you ? asked Jo . 
Straws show which way the wind blows , and I've made several discoveries today . 
Oh , tell us what they are ! cried Meg , who sat beside him . 
I remember a time when this hand was white and smooth , and your first care was to keep it so . 
It was very pretty then , but to me it is much prettier now , for in this seeming blemishes I read a little history . 
Meg , my dear , I value the womanly skill which keeps home happy more than white hands or fashionable accomplishments . 
I'm proud to shake this good , industrious little hand , and hope I shall not soon be asked to give it away . 
If Meg had wanted a reward for hours of patient labor , she received it in the hearty pressure of her father's hand and the approving smile he gave her . 
What about Jo ? Please say something nice , for she has tried so hard and been so very , very good to me , said Beth in her father's ear . 
He laughed and looked across at the tall girl who sat opposite , with and unusually mild expression in her face . 
In spite of the curly crop , I don't see the son Jo' whom I left a year ago , said Mr. March . 
I see a young lady who pins her collar straight , laces her boots neatly , and neither whistles , talks slang , nor lies on the rug as she used to do . 
She doesn't bounce , but moves quietly , and takes care of a certain little person in a motherly way which delights me . 
I rather miss my wild girl , but if I get a strong , helpful , tenderhearted woman in her place , I shall feel quite satisfied . 
Now , Beth , said Amy , longing for her turn , but ready to wait . 
After a minute's silence , he looked down at Amy , who sat on the cricket at his feet , and said , with a caress of the shining hair . 
What are you thinking of , Beth ? asked Jo , when Amy had thanked her father and told about her ring . 
I'll try to sing the song of the shepherd boy which the Pilgrims heard . 
I made the music for Father , because he likes the verses . 
He that is down need fear no fall , He that is low no pride . 
He that is humble ever shall Have God to be his guide . 
I am content with what I have , Little be it , or much . 
And , Lord ! Contentment still I crave , Because Thou savest such . 
Fulness to them a burden is , That go on pilgrimage . 
But something was needed , and the elder ones felt it , though none confessed the fact . 
Mr. and Mrs. March looked at one another with an anxious expression , as their eyes followed Meg . 
Jo had sudden fits of sobriety , and was seen to shake her fist at Mr. Brooke's umbrella , which had been left in the hall . 
Meg was absent minded , shy , and silent , started when the bell rang , and colored when John's name was mentioned . 
And when Meg told him to behave himself and go away , he wrung imaginary tears out of his handkerchief , and staggered round the corner as if in utter despair . 
What does the goose mean ? said Meg , laughing and trying to look unconscious . 
He's showing you how your John will go on by and by . 
Touchin , isn't it ? answered Jo scornfully . 
Don't say my John , it isn't proper or true , but Meg's voice lingered over the words as if they sounded pleasant to her . 
We can't , for something has been said , and Laurie's mischief has spoiled you for me . 
I see it , and so does Mother . 
You are not like your old self a bit , and seem ever so far away from me . 
I don't mean to plague you and will bear it like a man , but I do wish it was all settled . 
I hate to wait , so if you mean ever to do it , make haste and have it over quickly , said Jo pettishly . 
I'm not so silly and weak as you think . 
I know just what I should say , for I've planned it all , so I needn't be taken unawares . 
There's no knowing what may happen , and I wished to be prepared . 
Jo couldn't help smiling at the important air which Meg had unconsciously assumed and which was as becoming as the pretty color varying in her cheeks . 
Would you mind telling me what you'd say ? asked Jo more respectfully . 
Don't mean to have any . 
It's fun to watch other people philander , but I should feel like a fool doing it myself , said Jo , looking alarmed at the thought . 
I think not , if you liked anyone very much , and he liked you . 
Meg spoke as if to herself , and glanced out at the lane where she had often seen lovers walking together in the summer twilight . 
I thought you were going to tell your speech to that man , said Jo , rudely shortening her sister's little reverie . 
Hum , that's stiff and cool enough ! I don't believe you'll ever say it , and I know he won't be satisfied if you do . 
If he goes on like the rejected lovers in books , you'll give in , rather than hurt his feelings . 
I shall tell him I've made up my mind , and shall walk out of the room with dignity . 
Jo smothered a laugh at the sudden change , and when someone gave a modest tap , opened the door with a grim aspect which was anything but hospitable . 
It's very well , he's in the rack . 
I'll get him , and tell it you are here . 
And having jumbled her father and the umbrella well together in her reply , Jo slipped out of the room to give Meg a chance to make her speech and air her dignity . 
But the instant she vanished , Meg began to sidle toward the door , murmuring . 
Mother will like to see you . 
Pray sit down , I'll call her . 
Are you afraid of me , Margaret ? And Mr. Brooke looked so hurt that Meg thought she must have done something very rude . 
Anxious to appear friendly and at her ease , she put out her hand with a confiding gesture , and said gratefully . 
How can I be afraid when you have been so kind to Father ? I only wish I could thank you for it . 
Oh no , please don't , I'd rather not , she said , trying to withdraw her hand , and looking frightened in spite of her denial . 
I only want to know if you care for me a little , Meg . 
I love you so much , dear , added Mr. Brooke tenderly . 
This was the moment for the calm , proper speech , but Meg didn't make it . 
She forgot every word of it , hung her head , and answered , I don't know , so softly that John had to stoop down to catch the foolish little reply . 
I'm too young , faltered Meg , wondering was she was so fluttered , yet rather enjoying it . 
I'll wait , and in the meantime , you could be learning to like me . 
Would it be a very hard lesson , dear ? Not if I chose to learn it , but . 
Please choose to learn , Meg . 
She felt excited and strange , and not knowing what else to do , followed a capricious impulse , and , withdrawing her hands , said petulantly , I don't choose . 
Do you really mean that ? he asked anxiously , following her as she walked away . 
I don't want to be worried about such things . 
Father says I needn't , it's too soon and I'd rather not . 
Mayn't I hope you'll change your mind by and by ? I'll wait and say nothing till you have had more time . 
Don't play with me , Meg . 
I didn't think that of you . 
Don't think of me at all . 
I'd rather you wouldn't , said Meg , taking a naughty satisfaction in trying her lover's patience and her own power . 
He was grave and pale now , and looked decidedly more like the novel heroes whom she admired , but he neither slapped his forehead nor tramped about the room as they did . 
He just stood looking at her so wistfully , so tenderly , that she found her heart relenting in spite of herself . 
What would have happened next I cannot say , if Aunt March had not come hobbling in at this interesting minute . 
The family were all busy in the back part of the house , and she had made her way quietly in , hoping to surprise them . 
She did surprise two of them so much that Meg started as if she had seen a ghost , and Mr. Brooke vanished into the study . 
Bless me , what's all this ? cried the old lady with a rap of her cane as she glanced from the pale young gentleman to the scarlet young lady . 
I'm so surprised to see you ! stammered Meg , feeling that she was in for a lecture now . 
That's evident , returned Aunt March , sitting down . 
But what is Father's friend saying to make you look like a peony ? There's mischief going on , and I insist upon knowing what it is , with another rap . 
Mr. Brooke came for his umbrella , began Meg , wishing that Mr. Brooke and the umbrella were safely out of the house . 
Brooke ? That boy's tutor ? Ah ! I understand now . 
I know all about it . 
Jo blundered into a wrong message in one of your Father's letters , and I made her tell me . 
You haven't gone and accepted him , child ? cried Aunt March , looking scandalized . 
Shan't I call Mother ? said Meg , much troubled . 
I've something to say to you , and I must free my mind at once . 
Tell me , do you mean to marry this Cook ? If you do , not one penny of my money ever goes to you . 
Remember that , and be a sensible girl , said the old lady impressively . 
Now Aunt March possessed in perfection the art of rousing the spirit of opposition in the gentlest people , and enjoyed doing it . 
The best of us have a spice of perversity in us , especially when we are young and in love . 
Inclination as well as perversity made the decision easy , and being already much excited , Meg opposed the old lady with unusual spirit . 
I shall marry whom I please , Aunt March , and you can leave your money to anyone you like , she said , nodding her head with a resolute air . 
It can't be a worse one than some people find in big houses , retorted Meg . 
Aunt March put on her glasses and took a look at the girl , for she did not know her in this new mood . 
Meg hardly knew herself , she felt so brave and independent , so glad to defend John and assert her right to love him , if she liked . 
I mean it kindly , and don't want you to spoil your whole life by making a mistake at the beginning . 
You ought to marry well and help your family . 
It's your duty to make a rich match and it ought to be impressed upon you . 
Father and Mother don't think so . 
They like John though he is poor . 
Your parents , my dear , have no more worldly wisdom than a pair of babies . 
I'm glad of it , cried Meg stoutly . 
Aunt March took no notice , but went on with her lecture . 
This Rook is poor and hasn't got any rich relations , has he ? No , but he has many warm friends . 
You can't live on friends , try it and see how cool they'll grow . 
He hasn't any business , has he ? Not yet . 
Mr. Laurence is going to help him . 
James Laurence is a crotchety old fellow and not to be depended on . 
He knows you have got rich relations , child . 
That's the secret of his liking , I suspect . 
My John wouldn't marry for money , any more than I would . 
We are willing to work and we mean to wait . 
I'm not afraid of being poor , for I've been happy so far , and I know I shall be with him because he loves me , and I. . 
Well , I wash my hands of the whole affair ! You are a willful child , and you've lost more than you know by this piece of folly . 
No , I won't stop . 
I'm disappointed in you , and haven't spirits to see your father now . 
Don't expect anything from me when you are married . 
Your Mr. Book's friends must take care of you . 
I'm done with you forever . 
And slamming the door in Meg's face , Aunt March drove off in high dudgeon . 
She seemed to take all the girl's courage with her , for when left alone , Meg stood for a moment , undecided whether to laugh or cry . 
Before she could make up her mind , she was taken possession of by Mr. Brooke , who said all in one breath , I couldn't help hearing , Meg . 
Thank you for defending me , and Aunt March for proving that you do care for me a little bit . 
I didn't know how much till she abused you , began Meg . 
I'll go and hear the fun , and have a good laugh over it . 
Jo gave a sort of gasp , as if a cold shower bath had suddenly fallen upon her , for such an unexpected turning of the tables actually took her breath away . 
At the odd sound the lovers turned and saw her . 
No one ate much , but everyone looked very happy , and the old room seemed to brighten up amazingly when the first romance of the family began there . 
No , I'm sure I can't . 
The joys come close upon the sorrows this time , and I rather think the changes have begun , said Mrs. March . 
In most families there comes , now and then , a year full of events . 
This has been such a one , but it ends well , after all . 
I hope the third year from this will end better . 
I mean it shall , if I live to work out my plans , said Mr. Brooke , smiling at Meg , as if everything had become possible to him now . 
Doesn't it seem very long to wait ? asked Amy , who was in a hurry for the wedding . 
Now we shall have some sensible conversation . 
Much obliged for that recommendation . 
I'll come if I'm at the ens of the earth , for the sight of Jo's face alone on that occasion would be worth a long journey . 
You don't look festive , ma'am , what's the matter ? asked Laurie , following her into a corner of the parlor , whither all had adjourned to greet Mr. Laurence . 
I don't approve of the match , but I've made up my mind to bear it , and shall not say a word against it , said Jo solemnly . 
You can't know how hard it is for me to give up Meg , she continued with a little quiver in her voice . 
You don't give her up . 
You only go halves , said Laurie consolingly . 
It can never be the same again . 
I've lost my dearest friend , sighed Jo . 
You've got me , anyhow . 
I'm not good for much , I know , but I'll stand by you , Jo , all the days of my life . 
Upon my word I will ! And Laurie meant what he said . 
I know you will , and I'm ever so much obliged . 
You are always a great comfort to me , Teddy , returned Jo , gratefully shaking hands . 
Well , now , don't be dismal , there's a good fellow . 
It's all right you see . 
Meg is happy , Brooke will fly round and get settled immediately , Grandpa will attend to him , and it will be very jolly to see Meg in her own little house . 
We'll have capital times after she is gone , for I shall be through college before long , and then we'll go abroad on some nice trip or other . 
Wouldn't that console you ? I rather think it would , but there's no knowing what may happen in three years , said Jo thoughtfully . 
Don't you wish you could take a look forward and wee where we shall all be then ? I do , returned Laurie . 
I think not , for I might see something sad , and everyone looks so happy now , I don't believe they could be much improved . 
And Jo's eyes went slowly round the room , brightening as they looked , for the prospect was a pleasant one . 
Father and Mother sat together , quietly reliving the first chapter of the romance which for them began some twenty years ago . 
Amy was drawing the lovers , who sat apart in a beautiful world of their own , the light of which touched their faces with a grace the little artist could not copy . 
So the curtain falls upon Meg , Jo , Beth , and Amy . 
Whether it ever rises again , depends upon the reception giveN the first act of the domestic drama called LITTLE WOMEN . 
Sinners told their sins to the pure hearted old man and were both rebuked and saved . 
Gifted men found a companion in him . 
Ambitious men caught glimpses of nobler ambitions than their own , and even worldlings confessed that his beliefs were beautiful and true , although they wouldn't pay' . 
John Brooke did his duty manfully for a year , got wounded , was sent home , and not allowed to return . 
He received no stars or bars , but he deserved them , for he cheerfully risked all he had , and life and love are very precious when both are in full bloom . 
Perfectly resigned to his discharge , he devoted himself to getting well , preparing for business , and earning a home for Meg . 
Meg had spent the time in working as well as waiting , growing womanly in character , wise in housewifely arts , and prettier than ever , for love is a great beautifier . 
She had her girlish ambitions and hopes , and felt some disappointment at the humble way in which the new life must begin . 
So she gave her mornings to duty , her afternoons to pleasure , and prospered finely . 
Jo meantime devoted herself to literature and Beth , who remained delicate long after the fever was a thing of the past . 
Laurie , having dutifully gone to college to please his grandfather , was now getting through it in the easiest possible manner to please himself . 
Amy especially enjoyed this high honor , and became quite a belle among them , for her ladyship early felt and learned to use the gift of fascination with which she was endowed . 
They all liked Jo immensely , but never fell in love with her , though very few escaped without paying the tribute of a sentimental sigh or two at Amy's shrine . 
And speaking of sentiment brings us very naturally to the Dovecote' . 
That was the name of the little brown house Mr. Brooke had prepared for Meg's first home . 
Laurie had christened it , saying it was highly appropriate to the gentle lovers who went on together like a pair of turtledoves , with first a bill and then a coo' . 
It was a tiny house , with a little garden behind and a lawn about as big as a pocket handkerchief in the front . 
But inside , it was altogether charming , and the happy bride saw no fault from garret to cellar . 
But once get used to these slight blemishes and nothing could be more complete , for good sense and good taste had presided over the furnishing , and the result was highly satisfactory . 
What happy times they had planning together , what solemn shopping excursions , what funny mistakes they made , and what shouts of laughter arose over Laurie's ridiculous bargains . 
In his love of jokes , this young gentleman , though nearly through college , was a much of a boy as ever . 
His last whim had been to bring with him on his weekly visits some new , useful , and ingenious article for the young housekeeper . 
In vain Meg begged him to stop . 
John laughed at him , and Jo called him Mr. Toodles' . 
He was possessed with a mania for patronizing Yankee ingenuity , and seeing his friends fitly furnished forth . 
So each week beheld some fresh absurdity . 
Everything was done at last , even to Amy's arranging different colored soaps to match the different colored rooms , and Beth's setting the table for the first meal . 
Yes , Mother , perfectly satisfied , thanks to you all , and so happy that I can't talk about it , with a look that was far better than words . 
Mother and I have talked that over , and I have made up my mind to try her way first . 
Sallie Moffat has four , began Amy . 
Sallie isn't a poor man's wife , and many maids are in keeping with her fine establishment . 
Meg and John begin humbly , but I have a feeling that there will be quite as much happiness in the little house as in the big one . 
It's a great mistake for young girls like Meg to leave themselves nothing to do but dress , give orders , and gossip . 
I did after a while , not to mess' but to learn of Hannah how things should be done , that my servants need not laugh at me . 
Beth was there , laying the snowy piles smoothly on the shelves and exulting over the goodly array . 
All three laughed as Meg spoke , for that linen closet was a joke . 
She never broke her word , and was much exercised in her mind how to get round it , and at last devised a plan whereby she could satisfy herself . 
That's a housewifely taste which I am glad to see . 
I haven't a single finger bowl , but this is a setout that will last me all my days , Hannah says . 
And Meg looked quite contented , as well she might . 
Here I am , Mother ! Yes , it's all right . 
For Mrs. John Brooke , with the maker's congratulations and compliments . 
Bless you , Beth ! What a refreshing spectacle you are , Jo . 
Amy , you are getting altogether too handsome for a single lady . 
Where is John ? asked Meg anxiously . 
Stopped to get the license for tomorrow , ma'am . 
Which side won the last match , Teddy ? inquired Jo , who persisted in feeling an interest in manly sports despite her nineteen years . 
Wish you'd been there to see . 
How is the lovely Miss Randal ? asked Amy with a significant smile . 
Don't you see how I'm pining away ? And Laurie gave his broad chest a sounding slap and heaved a melodramatic sigh . 
What's the last joke ? Undo the bundle and see , Meg , said Beth , eying the knobby parcel with curiosity . 
It's a useful thing to have in the house in case of fire or thieves , observed Laurie , as a watchman's rattle appeared , amid the laughter of the girls . 
Any time when John is away and you get frightened , Mrs. Meg , just swing that out of the front window , and it will rouse the neighborhood in a jiffy . 
Nice thing , isn't it ? And Laurie gave them a sample of its powers that made them cover up their ears . 
There's gratitude for you ! And speaking of gratitude reminds me to mention that you may thank Hannah for saving your wedding cake from destruction . 
I wonder if you will ever grow up , Laurie , said Meg in a matronly tone . 
I suppose it would be profanation to eat anything in this spick and span bower , so as I'm tremendously hungry , I propose an adjournment , he added presently . 
Mother and I are going to wait for John . 
There are some last things to settle , said Meg , bustling away . 
Come , Jo , don't desert a fellow . 
I'm in such a state of exhaustion I can't get home without help . 
Now , Teddy , I want to talk seriously to you about tomorrow , began Jo , as they strolled away together . 
You must promise to behave well , and not cut up any pranks , and spoil our plans . 
And don't say funny things when we ought to be sober . 
You are the one for that . 
And I implore you not to look at me during the ceremony . 
I shall certainly laugh if you do . 
You won't see me , you'll be crying so hard that the thick fog round you will obscure the prospect . 
I never cry unless for some great affliction . 
Such as fellows going to college , hey ? cut in Laurie , with suggestive laugh . 
I only moaned a trifle to keep the girls company . 
I say , Jo , how is Grandpa this week ? Pretty amiable ? Very . 
Why , have you got into a scrape and want to know how he'll take it ? asked Jo rather sharply . 
Now , Jo , do you think I'd look your mother in the face and say All right' , if it wasn't ? And Laurie stopped short , with an injured air . 
Then don't go and be suspicious . 
I only want some money , said Laurie , walking on again , appeased by her hearty tone . 
You spend a great deal , Teddy . 
Bless you , I don't spend it , it spends itself somehow , and is gone before I know it . 
You are so generous and kind hearted that you let people borrow , and can't say No' to anyone . 
We heard about Henshaw and all you did for him . 
If you always spent money in that way , no one would blame you , said Jo warmly . 
Oh , he made a mountain out of a molehill . 
I thought you'd got over the dandy period , but every now and then it breaks out in a new spot . 
Just now it's the fashion to be hideous , to make your head look like a scrubbing brush , wear a strait jacket , orange gloves , and clumping square toed boots . 
If it was cheap ugliness , I'd say nothing , but it costs as much as the other , and I don't get any satisfaction out of it . 
Don't lecture any more , there's a good soul ! I have enough all through the week , and like to enjoy myself when I come home . 
I'll get myself up regardless of expense tomorrow and be a satisfaction to my friends . 
I'll leave you in peace if you'll only let your hair grow . 
I'm not aristocratic , but I do object to being seen with a person who looks like a young prize fighter , observed Jo severely . 
By the way , Jo , I think that little Parker is really getting desperate about Amy . 
He talks of her constantly , writes poetry , and moons about in a most suspicious manner . 
He'd better nip his little passion in the bud , hadn't he ? added Laurie , in a confidential , elder brotherly tone , after a minute's silence . 
We don't want any more marrying in this family for years to come . 
Mercy on us , what are the children thinking of ? And Jo looked as much scandalized as if Amy and little Parker were not yet in their teens . 
It's a fast age , and I don't know what we are coming to , ma'am . 
You are a mere infant , but you'll go next , Jo , and we'll be left lamenting , said Laurie , shaking his head over the degeneracy of the times . 
I'm not one of the agreeable sort . 
Nobody will want me , and it's a mercy , for there should always be one old maid in a family . 
You won't give anyone a chance , said Laurie , with a sidelong glance and a little more color than before in his sunburned face . 
I don't like that sort of thing . 
I'm too busy to be worried with nonsense , and I think it's dreadful to break up families so . 
Now don't say any more about it . 
Meg's wedding has turned all our heads , and we talk of nothing but lovers and such absurdities . 
I don't wish to get cross , so let's change the subject . 
And Jo looked quite ready to fling cold water on the slightest provocation . 
Neither silk , lace , nor orange flowers would she have . 
I don't want a fashionable wedding , but only those about me whom I love , and to them I wish to look and be my familiar self . 
So she made her wedding gown herself , sewing into it the tender hopes and innocent romances of a girlish heart . 
her sisters braided up her pretty hair , and the only ornaments she wore were the lilies of the valley , which her John' liked best of all the flowers that grew . 
But please hug and kiss me , everyone , and don't mind my dress . 
I want a great many crumples of this sort put into it today . 
And Meg opened her arms to her sisters , who clung about her with April faces for a minute , feeling that the new love had not changed the old . 
Now I'm going to tie John's cravat for him , and then to stay a few minutes with Father quietly in the study . 
Jo's angles are much softened , she has learned to carry herself with ease , if not grace . 
The curly crop has lengthened into a thick coil , more becoming to the small head atop of the tall figure . 
There is a fresh color in her brown cheeks , a soft shine in her eyes , and only gentle words fall from her sharp tongue today . 
Beth has grown slender , pale , and more quiet than ever . 
The beautiful , kind eyes are larger , and in them lies an expression that saddens one , although it is not sad itself . 
It is the shadow of pain which touches the young face with such pathetic patience , but Beth seldom complains and always speaks hopefully of being better soon' . 
Amy's nose still afflicted her , for it never would grow Grecian , so did her mouth , being too wide , and having a decided chin . 
You oughtn't to be seen till the last minute , child . 
I'm not a show , Aunty , and no one is coming to stare at me , to criticize my dress , or count the cost of my luncheon . 
I'm too happy to care what anyone says or thinks , and I'm going to have my little wedding just as I like it . 
John , dear , here's your hammer . 
And away went Meg to help that man' in his highly improper employment . 
There was no bridal procession , but a sudden silence fell upon the room as Mr. March and the young couple took their places under the green arch . 
Mother and sisters gathered close , as if loath to give Meg up . 
The fatherly voice broke more than once , which only seemed to make the service more beautiful and solemn . 
The bridegroom's hand trembled visibly , and no one heard his replies . 
Everybody cleared up after that , and said something brilliant , or tried to , which did just as well , for laughter is ready when hearts are light . 
Mr. Laurence and Aunt March shrugged and smiled at one another when water , lemonade , and coffee were found to be to only sorts of nectar which the three Hebes carried around . 
No one said anything , till Laurie , who insisted on serving the bride , appeared before her , with a loaded salver in his hand and a puzzled expression on his face . 
You know he thinks that wine should be used only in illness , and Mother says that neither she nor her daughters will ever offer it to any young man under her roof . 
You are not made wise by experience , I hope ? And there was an anxious accent in Meg's voice . 
No. I give you my word for it . 
Don't think too well of me , either , this is not one of my temptations . 
But you will , for the sake of others , if not for your own . 
Come , Laurie , promise , and give me one more reason to call this the happiest day of my life . 
A demand so sudden and so serious made the young man hesitate a moment , for ridicule is often harder to bear than self denial . 
Meg knew that if he gave the promise he would keep it at all costs , and feeling her power , used it as a woman may for her friend's good . 
She did not speak , but she looked up at him with a face made very eloquent by happiness , and a smile which said , No one can refuse me anything today . 
And I drink long life to your resolution' , Teddy , cried Jo , baptizing him with a splash of lemonade , as she waved her glass and beamed approvingly upon him . 
After lunch , people strolled about , by twos and threes , through the house and garden , enjoying the sunshine without and within . 
Meg and John happened to be standing together in the middle of the grass plot , when Laurie was seized with an inspiration which put the finishing touch to this unfashionable wedding . 
Want of breath brought the impromptu ball to a close , and then people began to go . 
I'll do my best to gratify you , Sir , was Laurie's unusually dutiful reply , as he carefully unpinned the posy Jo had put in his buttonhole . 
The little house was not far away , and the only bridal journey Meg had was the quiet walk with John from the old home to the new . 
I shall come every day , Father , and expect to keep my old place in all your hearts , though I am married . 
Beth is going to be with me a great deal , and the other girls will drop in now and then to laugh at my housekeeping struggles . 
Thank you all for my happy wedding day . 
CHAPTER TWENTY SIX It takes people a long time to learn the difference between talent and genius , especially ambitious young men and women . 
Amy was learning this distinction through much tribulation , for mistaking enthusiasm for inspiration , she attempted every branch of art with youthful audacity . 
But over strained eyes caused pen and ink to be laid aside for a bold attempt at poker sketching . 
Raphael's face was found boldly executed on the underside of the moulding board , and Bacchus on the head of a beer barrel . 
A chanting cherub adorned the cover of the sugar bucket , and attempts to portray Romeo and Juliet supplied kindling for some time . 
From fire to oil was a natural transition for burned fingers , and Amy fell to painting with undiminished ardor . 
Swarthy boys and dark eyed Madonnas , staring at you from one corner of the studio , suggested Murillo . 
Oily brown shadows of faces with a lurid streak in the wrong place , meant Rembrandt . 
Charcoal portraits came next , and the entire family hung in a row , looking as wild and crocky as if just evoked from a coalbin . 
Softened into crayon sketches , they did better , for the likenesses were good , and Amy's hair , Jo's nose , Meg's mouth , and Laurie's eyes were pronounced wonderfully fine' . 
A return to clay and plaster followed , and ghostly casts of her acquaintances haunted corners of the house , or tumbled off closet shelves onto people's heads . 
Children were enticed in as models , till their incoherent accounts of her mysterious doings caused Miss Amy to be regarded in the light of a young ogress . 
Her efforts in this line , however , were brought to an abrupt close by an untoward accident , which quenched her ardor . 
After this Amy subsided , till a mania for sketching from nature set her to haunting river , field , and wood , for picturesque studies , and sighing for ruins to copy . 
She was learning , doing , and enjoying other things , meanwhile , for she had resolved to be an attractive and accomplished woman , even if she never became a great artist . 
Everybody liked her , for among her good gifts was tact . 
One of her weaknesses was a desire to move in our best society' , without being quite sure what the best really was . 
I want to ask a favor of you , Mamma , Amy said , coming in with an important air one day . 
Well , little girl , what is it ? replied her mother , in whose eyes the stately young lady still remained the baby' . 
Our drawing class breaks up next week , and before the girls separate for the summer , I want to ask them out here for a day . 
They are wild to see the river , sketch the broken bridge , and copy some of the things they admire in my book . 
Why should they ? And Mrs. March put the question with what the girls called her Maria Theresa air' . 
The ugly duckling turned out a swan , you know . 
And Amy smiled without bitterness , for she possessed a happy temper and hopeful spirit . 
The girls are used to such things , and I want my lunch to be proper and elegant , though I do work for my living . 
How many young ladies are there ? asked her mother , beginning to look sober . 
Twelve or fourteen in the class , but I dare say they won't all come . 
Bless me , child , you will have to charter an omnibus to carry them about . 
All of this will be expensive , Amy . 
I've calculated the cost , and I'll pay for it myself . 
Talk it over with the girls , and whichever way you decide , I'll do my best to help you . 
Thanks , Mother , you are always so kind . 
And away went Amy to lay her plan before her sisters . 
Meg agreed at once , and promised to her aid , gladly offering anything she possessed , from her little house itself to her very best saltspoons . 
But Jo frowned upon the whole project and would have nothing to do with it at first . 
I don't truckle , and I hate being patronized as much as you do ! returned Amy indignantly , for the two still jangled when such questions arose . 
You don't care to make people like you , to go into good society , and cultivate your manners and tastes . 
I do , and I mean to make the most of every chance that comes . 
You can go through the world with your elbows out and your nose in the air , and call it independence , if you like . 
Amy's definition of Jo's idea of independence was such a good hit that both burst out laughing , and the discussion took a more amiable turn . 
Much against her will , Jo at length consented to sacrifice a day to Mrs. Grundy , and help her sister through what she regarded as a nonsensical business' . 
The invitations were sent , nearly all accepted , and the following Monday was set apart for the grand event . 
Hannah was out of humor because her week's work was deranged , and prophesied that ef the washin' and ironin' warn't done reg'lar , nothin' would go well anywheres . 
To begin with , Hannah's cooking didn't turn out well . 
The chicken was tough , the tongue too salt , and the chocolate wouldn't froth properly . 
Then the cake and ice cost more than Amy expected , so did the wagon , and various other expenses , which seemed trifling at the outset , counted up rather alarmingly afterward . 
Beth got a cold and took to her bed . 
It it was not fair on Monday , the young ladies were to come on Tuesday , and arrangement which aggravated Jo and Hannah to the last degree . 
On Monday morning the weather was in that undecided state which is more exasperating than a steady pour . 
It drizzled a little , shone a little , blew a little , and didn't make up its mind till it was too late for anyone else to make up theirs . 
Amy was up at dawn , hustling people out of their beds and through their breakfasts , that the house might be got in order . 
Then came the hours of suspense , during which she vibrated from parlor to porch , while public opinion varied like the weathercock . 
No doubt about the weather today , they will certainly come , so we must fly round and be ready for them , said Amy , as the sun woke her next morning . 
She spoke briskly , but in her secret soul she wished she had said nothing about Tuesday , for her interest like her cake was getting a little stale . 
I can't get any lobsters , so you will have to do without salad today , said Mr. March , coming in half an hour later , with an expression of placid despair . 
Use the chicken then , the toughness won't matter in a salad , advised his wife . 
Hannah left it on the kitchen table a minute , and the kittens got at it . 
I'm very sorry , amy , added Beth , who was still a patroness of cats . 
Then I must have a lobster , for tongue alone won't do , said Amy decidedly . 
Shall I rush into town and demand one ? asked Jo , with the magnanimity of a martyr . 
You'd come bringing it home under your arm without any paper , just to try me . 
I'll go myself , answered Amy , whose temper was beginning to fail . 
Please don't it's it's mine , murmured Amy , with a face nearly as red as her fish . 
Oh , really , I beg pardon . 
It's an uncommonly fine one , isn't it ? said Tudor , with great presence of mind , and an air of sober interest that did credit to his breeding . 
The lobster was instantly surrounded by a halo of pleasing reminiscences , and curiosity about the charming young ladies' diverted his mind from the comical mishap . 
I suppose he'll laugh and joke over it with Laurie , but I shan't see them , that's a comfort , thought Amy , as Tudor bowed and departed . 
, but went through with the preparations which now seemed more irksome than before , and at twelve o'clock all was ready again . 
There's the rumble , they're coming ! I'll go onto the porch and meet them . 
It looks hospitable , and I want the poor child to have a good time after all her trouble , said Mrs. March , suiting the action to the word . 
But after one glance , she retired , with an indescribable expression , for looking quite lost in the big carriage , sat Amy and one young lady . 
Run , Beth , and help Hannah clear half the things off the table . 
In came Amy , quite calm and delightfully cordial to the one guest who had kept her promise . 
, and drove her friend quietly about the neighborhood till sunset , when the party went out' . 
You've had a loverly afternoon for your drive , dear , said her mother , as respectfully as if the whole twelve had come . 
Miss Eliott is a very sweet girl , and seemed to enjoy herself , I thought , observed Beth , with unusual warmth . 
Could you spare me some of your cake ? I really need some , I have so much company , and I can't make such delicious stuff as yours , asked Meg soberly . 
It's a pity Laurie isn't here to help us , began Jo , as they sat down to ice cream and salad for the second time in two days . 
Here a general explosion of laughter cut short the history of salads' , to the great surprise of the learned gentleman . 
Bundle everything into a basket and send it to the Hummels . 
I'm sick of the sight of this , and there's no reason you should all die of a surfeit because I've been a fool , cried Amy , wiping her eyes . 
I'm very sorry you were disappointed , dear , but we all did our best to satisfy you , said Mrs. March , in a tone full of motherly regret . 
I've done what I undertook , and it's not my fault that it failed . 
I comfort myself with that , said Amy with a little quiver in her voice . 
I thank you all very much for helping me , and I'll thank you still more if you won't allude to it for a month , at least . 
CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN Fortune suddenly smiled upon Jo , and dropped a good luck penny in her path . 
Not a golden penny , exactly , but I doubt if half a million would have given more real happiness then did the little sum that came to her in this wise . 
At such times the intruder silently withdrew , and not until the red bow was seen gaily erect upon the gifted brow , did anyone dare address Jo . 
The devine afflatus usually lasted a week or two , and then she emerged from her vortex' , hungry , sleepy , cross , or despondent . 
They were early , and while Miss Crocker set the heel of her stocking , Jo amused herself by examining the faces of the people who occupied the seat with them . 
On her left were two matrons , with massive foreheads and bonnets to match , discussing Women's Rights and making tatting . 
On her right , her only neighbor was a studious looking lad absorbed in a newspaper . 
Prime , isn't it ? asked the boy , as her eye went down the last paragraph of her portion . 
I think you and I could do as well as that if we tried , returned Jo , amused at his admiration of the trash . 
I should think I was a pretty lucky chap if I could . 
She makes a good living out of such stories , they say . 
And he pointed to the name of Mrs. S. L. A. N. G. Northbury , under the title of the tale . 
Do you know her ? asked Jo , with sudden interest . 
No , but I read all her pieces , and I know a fellow who works in the office where this paper is printed . 
Do you say she makes a good living out of stories like this ? And Jo looked more respectfully at the agitated group and thickly sprinkled exclamation points that adorned the page . 
Guess she does ! She knows just what folks like , and gets paid well for writing it . 
, and was already deep in the concoction of her story , being unable to decide whether the duel should come before the elopement or after the murder . 
Jo had never tried this style before , contenting herself with very mild romances for THE SPREAD EAGLE . 
Her experience and miscellaneous reading were of service now , for they gave her some idea of dramatic effect , and supplied plot , language , and costumes . 
For a minute she stared at it as if it had been a snake , then she read her letter and began to cry . 
You can do better than this , Jo . 
Aim at the highest , and never mind the money . 
I think the money is the best part of it . 
What will you do with such a fortune ? asked Amy , regarding the magic slip of paper with a reverential eye . 
Send Beth and Mother to the seaside for a month or two , answered Jo promptly . 
So Jo was satisfied with the investment of her prize money , and fell to work with a cheery spirit , bent on earning more of those delightful checks . 
Little notice was taken of her stories , but they found a market , and encouraged by this fact , she resolved to make a bold stroke for fame and fortune . 
Don't spoil your book , my girl , for there is more in it than you know , and the idea is well worked out . 
It seems to me that Jo will profit more by taking the trial than by waiting , said Mrs. March . 
Criticism is the best test of such work , for it will show her both unsuspected merits and faults , and help her to do better next time . 
We are too partial , but the praise and blame of outsiders will prove useful , even if she gets but little money . 
Yes , said Jo , knitting her brows , that's just it . 
I've been fussing over the thing so long , I really don't know whether it's good , bad , or indifferent . 
It will be a great help to have cool , impartial persons take a look at it , and tell me what they think of it . 
I wouldn't leave a word out of it . 
But Mr. Allen says , Leave out the explanations , make it brief and dramatic , and let the characters tell the story' , interrupted Jo , turning to the publisher's note . 
Do as he tells you . 
He knows what will sale , and we don't . 
Make a good , popular book , and get as much money as you can . 
If I've got some of his wise ideas jumbled up with my romance , so much the better for me . 
Now , Beth , what do you say ? I should so like to see it printed soon , was all Beth said , and smiled in saying it . 
So , with Spartan firmness , the young authoress laid her first born on her table , and chopped it up as ruthlessly as any ogre . 
In the hope of pleasing everyone , she took everyone's advice , and like the old man and his donkey in the fable suited nobody . 
Her father liked the metaphysical streak which had unconsciously got into it , so that was allowed to remain though she had her doubts about it . 
Her mother thought that there was a trifle too much description . 
Out , therefore it came , and with it many necessary links in the story . 
You said , Mother , that criticism would help me . 
This man says , An exquisite book , full of truth , beauty , and earnestness . 
All is sweet , pure , and healthy . 
The next , The theory of the book is bad , full of morbid fancies , spiritualistic ideas , and unnatural characters . 
Now , as I had no theory of any kind , don't believe in Spiritualism , and copied my characters from life , I don't see how this critic can be right . 
Another says , It's one of the best American novels which has appeared for years . 
, and the next asserts that Though it is original , and written with great force and feeling , it is a dangerous book . 
I wish I'd printed the whole or not at all , for I do hate to be so misjudged . 
Her family and friends administered comfort and commendation liberally . 
Yet it was a hard time for sensitive , high spirited Jo , who meant so well and had apparently done so ill . 
So I'll comfort myself with that , and when I'm ready , I'll up again and take another . 
CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT Like most other young matrons , Meg began her married life with the determination to be a model housekeeper . 
John should find home a paradise , he should always see a smiling face , should fare sumptuously every day , and never know the loss of a button . 
She brought so much love , energy , and cheerfulness to the work that she could not but succeed , in spite of some obstacles . 
Her paradise was not a tranquil one , for the little woman fussed , was over anxious to please , and bustled about like a true Martha , cumbered with many cares . 
She was too tired , sometimes , even to smile , John grew dyspeptic after a course of dainty dishes and ungratefully demanded plain fare . 
They were very happy , even after they discovered that they couldn't live on love alone . 
John did not find Meg's beauty diminished , though she beamed at him from behind the familiar coffee pot . 
At first they played keep house , and frolicked over it like children . 
While the cooking mania lasted she went through Mrs. Cornelius's Receipt Book as if it were a mathematical exercise , working out the problems with patience and care . 
Before the golden mean was found , however , Meg added to her domestic possessions what young couples seldom get on long without , a family jar . 
Fired a with housewifely wish to see her storeroom stocked with homemade preserves , she undertook to put up her own currant jelly . 
Home came four dozen delightful little pots , half a barrel of sugar , and a small boy to pick the currants for her . 
Now , in the first flush of the new life , she had often said , My husband shall always feel free to bring a friend home whenever he likes . 
I shall always be prepared . 
There shall be no flurry , no scolding , no discomfort , but a neat house , a cheerful wife , and a good dinner . 
John , dear , never stop to ask my leave , invite whom you please , and be sure of a welcome from me . 
How charming that was , to be sure ! John quite glowed with pride to hear her say it , and felt what a blessed thing it was to have a superior wife . 
But , although they had had company from time to time , it never happened to be unexpected , and Meg had never had an opportunity to distinguish herself till now . 
It always happens so in this vale of tears , there is an inevitability about such things which we can only wonder at , deplore , and bear as we best can . 
It is a world of disappointments , as John discovered when he reached the Dovecote . 
the front door usually stood hospitably open . 
Now it was not only shut , but locked , and yesterday's mud still adorned the steps . 
Nothing of the sort , for not a soul appeared but a sanginary looking boy asleep under the current bushes . 
I'm afraid something has happened . 
Step into the garden , Scott , while I look up Mrs. Brooke , said John , alarmed at the silence and solitude . 
Round the house he hurried , led by a pungent smell of burned sugar , and Mr. Scott strolled after him , with a queer look on his face . 
He paused discreetly at a distance when Brooke disappeared , but he could both see and hear , and being a bachelor , enjoyed the prospect mightily . 
In the kitchen reigned confusion and despair . 
One edition of jelly was trickled from pot to pot , another lay upon the floor , and a third was burning gaily on the stove . 
Oh , John , I am so tired and hot and cross and worried ! I've been at it till I'm all worn out . 
What worries you dear ? Has anything dreadful happened ? asked the anxious John , tenderly kissing the crown of the little cap , which was all askew . 
Yes , sobbed Meg despairingly . 
Tell me quick , then . 
I can bear anything better than that . 
Out with it , love . 
Is that all ? Fling it out of the window , and don't bother any more about it . 
I'll buy you quarts if you want it , but for heaven's sake don't have hysterics , for I've brought Jack Scott home to dinner , and . 
I didn't know it this morning , and there was no time to send word , for I met him on the way out . 
I never thought of asking leave , when you have always told me to do as I liked . 
I never tried it before , and hang me if I ever do again ! added John , with an aggrieved air . 
I should hope not ! Take him away at once . 
I can't see him , and there isn't any dinner . 
Well , I like that ! Where's the beef and vegetables I sent home , and the pudding you promised ? cried John , rushing to the larder . 
I hadn't time to cook anything . 
I meant to dine at Mother's . 
I'm sorry , but I was so busy , and Meg's tears began again . 
He restrained himself however , and the little squall would have blown over , but for one unlucky word . 
It's a scrape , I acknowledge , but if you will lend a hand , we'll pull through and have a good time yet . 
Don't cry , dear , but just exert yourself a bit , and fix us up something to eat . 
We're both as hungry as hunters , so we shan't mind what it is . 
Give us the cold meat , and bread and cheese . 
We won't ask for jelly . 
He meant it to be a good natured joke , but that one word sealed his fate . 
Meg thought it was too cruel to hint about her sad failure , and the last atom of patience vanished as he spoke . 
You must get yourself out of the scrape as you can . 
I'm too used up to exert' myself for anyone . 
It's like a man to propose a bone and vulgar bread and cheese for company . 
I won't have anything of the sort in my house . 
Take that Scott up to Mother's , and tell him I'm away , sick , dead , anything . 
I won't see him , and you two can laugh at me and my jelly as much as you like . 
You won't have anything else here . 
And having delivered her defiance all on one breath , Meg cast away her pinafore and precipitately left the field to bemoan herself in her own room . 
Lotty reported that they had eaten a much , and greatly laughed , and the master bid her throw away all the sweet stuff , and hide the pots . 
Unfortunately , John didn't come , not seeing the matter in that light . 
No , by George , it wasn't ! And Meg must know it . 
He had fumed inwardly during the feast , but when the flurry was over and he strolled home after seeing Scott off , a milder mood came over him . 
Poor little thing ! It was hard upon her when she tried so heartily to please me . 
She was wrong , of course , but then she was young . 
I must be patient and teach her . 
He hoped she had not gone home he hated gossip and interference . 
Meg likewise resolved to be calm and kind , but firm' , and show him his duty . 
I've no objection , was Meg's equally soothing remark . 
A few other topics of general interest were introduced by Mr. Brooke and wet blanketed by Mrs. Brooke , and conversation languished . 
John went to one window , unfolded his paper , and wrapped himself in it , figuratively speaking . 
Meg went to the other window , and sewed as if new rosettes for slippers were among the necessaries of life . 
Both looked quite calm and firm' , and both felt desperately uncomfortable . 
Oh , dear , thought Meg , married life is very trying , and does need infinite patience as well as love , as Mother says . 
The word Mother' suggested other maternal counsels given long ago , and received with unbelieving protests . 
John is a good man , but he has his faults , and you must learn to see and bear with them , remembering your own . 
He is very decided , but never will be obstinate , if you reason kindly , not oppose impatiently . 
He is very accurate , and particular about the truth a good trait , though you call him fussy' . 
Never deceive him by look or word , Meg , and he will give you the confidence you deserve , the support you need . 
He has a temper , not like ours one flash and then all over but the white , still anger that is seldom stirred , but once kindled is hard to quench . 
Be careful , be very careful , not to wake his anger against yourself , for peace and happiness depend on keeping his respect . 
These words came back to Meg , as she sat sewing in the sunset , especially the last . 
She glanced at him with tears in her eyes , but he did not see them . 
She put down her work and got up , thinking , I will be the first to say , Forgive me' , but he did not seem to hear her . 
She went very slowly across the room , for pride was hard to swallow , and stood by him , but he did not turn his head . 
For a minute she felt as if she really couldn't do it , then came the thought , This is the beginning . 
I'll do my part , and have nothing to reproach myself with , and stooping sown , she softly kissed her husband on the forehead . 
Of course that settled it . 
The penitent kiss was better than a world of words , and John had her on his knee in a minute , saying tenderly . 
It was too bad to laugh at the poor little jelly pots . 
In the autumn , new trials and experiences came to Meg . 
It was pleasant , for in dull weather Meg often felt lonely . 
All were busy at home , John absent till night , and nothing to do but sew , or read , or potter about . 
So it naturally fell out that Meg got into the way of gadding and gossiping with her friend . 
Seeing Sallie's pretty things made her long for such , and pity herself because she had not got them . 
She knew her husband's income , and she loved to feel that he trusted her , not only with his happiness , but what some men seem to value more his money . 
Till now she had done well , been prudent and exact , kept her little account books neatly , and showed them to him monthly without fear . 
But that autumn the serpent got into Meg's paradise , and tempted her like many a modern Eve , not with apples , but with dress . 
Meg didn't like to be pitied and made to feel poor . 
But the trifles cost more than one would imagine , and when she cast up her accounts at the end of the month the sum total rather scared her . 
A few days before she had done a dreadful thing , and it weighed upon her conscience . 
Aunt March usually gave the sisters a present of twenty five dollars apiece at New Year's . 
That was only a month to wait , and here was a lovely violet silk going at a bargain , and she had the money , if she only dared to take it . 
Sallie had urged her to do it , had offered to lend the money , and with the best intentions in life had tempted Meg beyond her strength . 
In an evil moment the shopman held up the lovely , shimmering folds , and said , A bargain , I assure , you , ma'am . 
She put it away , but it haunted her , not delightfully as a new dress should , but dreadfully like the ghost of a folly that was not easily laid . 
When John got out his books that night , Meg's heart sank , and for the first time in her married life , she was afraid of her husband . 
The house bills were all paid , the books all in order . 
John had praised her , and was undoing the old pocketbook which they called the bank' , when Meg , knowing that it was quite empty , stopped his hand , saying nervously . 
You haven't seen my private expense book yet . 
The little book was brought slowly out and laid down before him . 
Meg got behind his chair under pretense of smoothing the wrinkles out of his tired forehead , and standing there , she said , with her panic increasing with every word . 
John , dear , I'm ashamed to show you my book , for I've really been dreadfully extravagant lately . 
John laughed , and drew her round beside him , saying goodhumoredly , Don't go and hide . 
I won't beat you if you have got a pair of killing boots . 
I'm rather proud of my wife's feet , and don't mind if she does pay eight or nine dollars for her boots , if they are good ones . 
That had been one of her last trifles' , and John's eye had fallen on it as he spoke . 
Oh , what will he say when he comes to that awful fifty dollars ! thought Meg , with a shiver . 
It's worse than boots , it's a silk dress , she said , with the calmness of desperation , for she wanted the worst over . 
For a minute the room was very still , then John said slowly but she could feel it cost him an effort to express no displeasure . 
Well , I don't know that fifty is much for a dress , with all the furbelows and notions you have to have to finish it off these days . 
It isn't made or trimmed , sighed Meg , faintly , for a sudden recollection of the cost still to be incurred quite overwhelmed her . 
I know you are angry , John , but I can't help it . 
I don't mean to waste your money , and I didn't think those little things would count up so . 
I can't resist them when I see Sallie buying all she wants , and pitying me because I don't . 
I try to be contented , but it is hard , and I'm tired of being poor . 
I do my best , Meg . 
If he had scolded her , or even shaken her , it would not have broken her heart like those few words . 
She ran to him and held him close , crying , with repentant tears , Oh , John , my dear , kind , hard working boy . 
She had promised to love him for better or worse , and then she , his wife , had reproached him with his poverty , after spending his earnings recklessly . 
He had simply said , in answer to her surprised inquiries as to the change , I can't afford it , my dear . 
Meg said no more , but a few minutes after he found her in the hall with her face buried in the old greatcoat , crying as if her heart would break . 
Next day she put her pride in her pocket , went to Sallie , told the truth , and asked her to buy the silk as a favor . 
The good natured Mrs. Moffat willingly did so , and had the delicacy not to make her a present of it immediately afterward . 
Then Meg ordered home the greatcoat , and when John arrived , she put it on , and asked him how he liked her new silk gown . 
One can imagine what answer he made , how he received his present , and what a blissful state of things ensued . 
So the year rolled round , and at midsummer there came to Meg a new experience , the deepest and tenderest of a woman's life . 
How's the little mamma ? Where is everybody ? Why didn't you tell me before I came home ? began Laurie in a loud whisper . 
Happy as a queen , the dear ! Every soul of em is upstairs a worshipin' . 
We didn't want no hurrycanes round . 
Now you go into the parlor , and I'll send em down to you , with which somewhat involved reply Hannah vanished , chuckling ecstatically . 
Presently Jo appeared , proudly bearing a flannel bundle laid forth upon a large pillow . 
Jo's face was very sober , but her eyes twinkled , and there was an odd sound in her voice of repressed emotion of some sort . 
Shut your eyes and hold out your arms , she said invitingly . 
Laurie backed precipitately into a corner , and put his hands behind him with an imploring gesture . 
I shall drop it or smash it , as sure as fate . 
Then you shan't see your nevvy , said Jo decidedly , turning as if to go . 
I will , I will ! Only you must be responsible for damages . 
And obeying orders , Laurie heroically shut his eyes while something was put into his arms . 
I never was more staggered in my life . 
Isn't it fun ? Are they boys ? What are you going to name them ? Let's have another look . 
Aren't they beauties ? said the proud papa , beaming upon the little red squirmers as if they were unfledged angels . 
Most remarkable children I ever saw . 
Which is which ? and Laurie bent like a well sweep to examine the prodigies . 
Amy put a blue ribbon on the boy and a pink on the girl , French fashion , so you can always tell . 
Besides , one has blue eyes and one brown . 
Kiss them , Uncle Teddy , said wicked Jo . 
I'm afraid they mightn't like it , began Laurie , with unusual timidity in such matters . 
Of course they will , they are used to it now . 
Do it this minute , sir ! commanded Jo , fearing he might propose a proxy . 
Laurie screwed up his face and obeyed with a gingerly peck at each little cheek that produced another laugh , and made the babies squeal . 
There , I knew they didn't like it ! That's the boy , see him kick , he hits out with his fists like a good one . 
He's to be named John Laurence , and the girl Margaret , after mother and grandmother . 
Name him Demijohn , and call him Demi for short , said Laurie Daisy and Demi , just the thing ! I knew Teddy would do it , cried Jo clapping her hands . 
Teddy certainly had done it that time , for the babies were Daisy' and Demi' to the end of the chapter . 
CHAPTER TWENTY NINE Come , Jo , it's time . 
Yes , you did , it was a bargain between us . 
I was to finish the crayon of Beth for you , and you were to go properly with me , and return our neighbors' visits . 
If it was fair , that was in the bond , and I stand to the letter of my bond , Shylock . 
There is a pile of clouds in the east , it's not fair , and I don't go . 
It was very provoking to be arrested in the act of a first tryingon , and ordered out to make calls in her best array on a warm July day . 
She hated calls of the formal sort , and never made any till Amy compelled her with a bargain , bribe , or promise . 
Jo March , you are perverse enough to provoke a saint ! You don't intend to make calls in that state , I hope , cried Amy , surveying her with amazement . 
Why not ? I'm neat and cool and comfortable , quite proper for a dusty walk on a warm day . 
If people care more for my clothes than they do for me , I don't wish to see them . 
You can dress for both , and be as elegant as you please . 
It pays for you to be fine . 
It doesn't for me , and furbelows only worry me . 
Oh , dear ! sighed Amy , now she's in a contrary fit , and will drive me distracted before I can get her properly ready . 
I'm sure it's no pleasure to me to go today , but it's a debt we owe society , and there's no one to pay it but you and me . 
I'll do anything for you , Jo , if you'll only dress yourself nicely , and come and help me do the civil . 
You can talk so well , look so aristocratic in your best things , and behave so beautifully , if you try , that I'm proud of you . 
I'm afraid to go alone , do come and take care of me . 
You're an artful little puss to flatter and wheedle your cross old sister in that way . 
The idea of my being aristocratic and well bred , and your being afraid to go anywhere alone ! I don't know which is the most absurd . 
Well , I'll go if I must , and do my best . 
You shall be commander of the expedition , and I'll obey blindly , will that satisfy you ? said Jo , with a sudden change from perversity to lamblike submission . 
You're a perfect cherub ! Now put on all your best things , and I'll tell you how to behave at each place , so that you will make a good impression . 
I want people to like you , and they would if you'd only try to be a little more agreeable . 
Do your hair the pretty way , and put the pink rose in your bonnet . 
It's becoming , and you look too sober in your plain suit . 
Take your light gloves and the embroidered handkerchief . 
We'll stop at Meg's , and borrow her white sunshade , and then you can have my dove colored one . 
I'm perfectly miserable , but if you consider me presentable , I die happy . 
turn slowly round , and let me get a careful view . 
Jo revolved , and Amy gave a touch here and there , then fell back , with her head on one side , observing graciously , Yes , you'll do . 
Your head is all I could ask , for that white bonnet with the rose is quite ravishing . 
Hold back your shoulders , and carry your hands easily , no matter if your gloves do pinch . 
There's one thing you can do well , Jo , that is , wear a shawl . 
I can't , but it's very nice to see you , and I'm so glad Aunt March gave you that lovely one . 
It's simple , but handsome , and those folds over the arm are really artistic . 
You are a thing of beauty and a joy forever , said Jo , looking through her hand with the air of a connoisseur at the blue feather against the golden hair . 
Am I to drag my best dress through the dust , or loop it up , please , ma'am ? Hold it yup when you walk , but drop it in the house . 
The sweeping style suits you best , and you must learn to trail your skirts gracefully . 
You haven't half buttoned one cuff , do it at once . 
You'll never look finished if you are not careful about the little details , for they make yup the pleasing whole . 
Now , Jo dear , the Chesters consider themselves very elegant people , so I want you to put on your best deportment . 
Calm , cool , and quiet' , yes , I think I can promise that . 
I've played the part of a prim young lady on the stage , and I'll try it off . 
My powers are great , as you shall see , so be easy in your mind , my child . 
In vain Mrs. Chester alluded to her charming novel' , and the Misses Chester introduced parties , picnics , the opera , and the fashions . 
Each and all were answered by a smile , a bow , and a demure Yes or No with the chill on . 
In vain Amy telegraphed the word talk' , tried to draw her out , and administered covert pokes with her foot . 
Jo sat as if blandly unconcious of it all , with deportment like Maud's face , icily regular , splendidly null' . 
What a haughty , uninteresting creature that oldest Miss March is ! was the unfortunately audible remark of one of the ladies , as the door closed upon their guests . 
Jo laughed noiselessly all through the hall , but Amy looked disgusted at the failure of her instructions , and very naturally laid the blame upon Jo . 
How could you mistake me so ? I merely meant you to be properly dignified and composed , and you made yourself a perfect stock and stone . 
Try to be sociable at the Lamb's' . 
Gossip as other girls do , and be interested in dress and flirtations and whatever nonsense comes up . 
They move in the best society , are valuable persons for us to know , and I wouldn't fail to make a good impression there for anything . 
I'll gossip and giggle , and have horrors and raptures over any trifle you like . 
I rather enjoy this , and now I'll imitate what is called a charming girl' . 
I can do it , for I have May Chester as a model , and I'll improve upon her . 
So situated , she was powerless to check Jo , who seemed possessed by a spirit of mischief , and talked away as volubly as the lady . 
One may imagine her suffering on overhearing fragments of this sort of conversation . 
who taught her ? No one . 
She used to practice mounting , holding the reins , and sitting straight on an old saddle in a tree . 
Now she rides anything , for she doesn't know what fear is , and the stableman lets her have horses cheap because she trains them to carry ladies so well . 
She has such a passion for it , I often tell her if everything else fails , she can be a horsebreaker , and get her living so . 
At this awful speech Amy contained herself with difficulty , for the impression was being given that she was rather a fast young lady , which was her especial aversion . 
Nice animal for a pleasure party , wasn't it ? Which did she choose ? asked one of the laughing gentlemen , who enjoyed the subject . 
Her struggles were really pathetic . 
There was no one to bring the horse to the saddle , so she took the saddle to the horse . 
I expected to see her brought home in fragments , but she managed him perfectly , and was the life of the party . 
She was still redder and more uncomfortable a moment after , when a sudden turn in the conversation introduced the subject of dress . 
You can't buy those soft shades , so we paint ours any color we like . 
It's a great comfort to have an artistic sister . 
Isn't that an original idea ? cried Miss Lamb , who found Jo great fun . 
That's nothing compared to some of her brilliant performances . 
There's nothing the child can't do . 
Any mention of her works' always had a bad effect upon Jo , who either grew rigid and looked offended , or changed the subject with a brusque remark , as now . 
Sorry you could find nothing better to read . 
I write that rubbish because it sells , and ordinary people like it . 
Are you going to New York this winter ? As Miss Lamb had enjoyed' the story , this speech was not exactly grateful or complimentary . 
Amy , we must go . 
Good by , dear , do come and see us . 
We are pining for a visit . 
I don't dare to ask you , Mr. Lamb , but if you should come , I don't think I shall have the heart to send you away . 
Didn't I do well ? asked Jo , with a satisfied air as they walked away . 
Nothing could have been worse , was Amy's crushing reply . 
What possessed you to tell those stories about my saddle , and the hats and boots , and all the rest of it ? Why , it's funny , and amuses people . 
You needn't go and tell them all our little shifts , and expose our poverty in that perfectly unnecessary way . 
You haven't a bit of proper pride , and never will learn when to hold your tongue and when to speak , said Amy despairingly . 
Poor Jo looked abashed , and silently chafed the end of her nose with the stiff handkerchief , as if performing a penance for her misdemeanors . 
How shall I behave here ? she asked , as they approached the third mansion . 
I wash my hands of you , was Amy's short answer . 
The boys are at home , and we'll have a comfortable time . 
Goodness knows I need a little change , for elegance has a bad effect upon my constitution , returned Jo gruffly , being disturbed by her failure to suit . 
Leaving her sister to her own devices , Amy proceeded to enjoy herself to her heart's content . 
It might have been worse , but Amy considered it bad . 
One small child was poking turtles with Amy's cherished parasol , a second was eating gingerbread over Jo's best bonnet , and a third playing ball with her gloves . 
Capital boys , aren't they ? I feel quite young and brisk again after that . 
said Jo , strolling along with her hands behind her , partly from habit , partly to conceal the bespattered parasol . 
Why do you always avoid Mr. Tudor ? asked Amy , wisely refraining from any comment upon Jo's dilapidated appearance . 
Don't like him , he puts on airs , snubs his sisters , worries his father , a nd doesn't speak respectfully of his mother . 
Laurie says he is fast , and I don't consider him a desirable acquaintance , so I let him alone . 
You might treat him civilly , at least . 
You gave him a cool nod , and just now you bowed and smiled in the politest way to Tommy Chamberlain , whose father keeps a grocery store . 
If you had just reversed the nod and the bow , it would have been right , said Amy reprovingly . 
No , it wouldn't , returned Jo , I neither like , respect , nor admire Tudor , though his grandfather's uncle's nephew's niece was a third cousin to a lord . 
Tommy is poor and bashful and good and very clever . 
I think well of him , and like to show that I do , for he is a gentleman in spite of the brown paper parcels . 
It's no use trying to argue with you , began Amy . 
The family cardcase having done its duty the girls walked on , and Jo uttered another thanksgiving on reaching the fifth house , and being told that the young ladies were engaged . 
now let us go home , and never mind Aunt March today . 
We can run down there any time , and it's really a pity to trail through the dust in our best bibs and tuckers , when we are tired and cross . 
Speak for yourself , if you please . 
Aunt March likes to have us pay her the compliment of coming in style , and making a formal call . 
Stoop down , and let me take the crumbs off of your bonnet . 
What a good girl you are , Amy ! said Jo , with a repentant glance from her own damaged costume to that of her sister , which was fresh and spotless still . 
I wish it was as easy for me to do little things to please people as it is for you . 
If you'd remember that , and practice it , you'd be better liked than I am , because there is more of you . 
It's a great misfortune to have such strong likes and dislikes , isn't it ? It's a greater not to be able to hide them . 
I don't mind saying that I don't approve of Tudor any more than you do , but I'm not called upon to tell him so . 
Neither are you , and there is no use in making yourself disagreeable because he is . 
But there are many little ways in which I can influence him without a word , and I say we ought to do it to others if we can . 
So we are to countenance things and people which we detest , merely because we are not belles and millionaires , are we ? That's a nice sort of morality . 
I can't argue about it , I only know that it's the way of the world , and people who set themselves against it only get laughed at for their pains . 
I don't like reformers , and I hope you never try to be one . 
I do like them , and I shall be one if I can , for in spite of the laughing the world would never get on without them . 
We can't agree about that . 
for you belong to the old set , and I to the new . 
You will get on the best , but I shall have the liveliest time of it . 
I should rather enjoy the brickbats and hooting , I think . 
Well , compose yourself now , and don't worry Aunt with your new ideas . 
I'll try not to , but I'm always possessed to burst out with some particularly blunt speech or revolutionary sentiment before her . 
It's my doom , and I can't help it . 
This amiable spirit was felt at once , and both aunts my deared' her affectionately , looking what they afterward said emphatically , That child improves every day . 
Are you going to help about the fair , dear ? asked Mrs. Carrol , as Amy sat down beside her with the confiding air elderly people like so well in the young . 
Mrs. Chester asked me if I would , and I offered to tend a table , as I have nothing but my time to give . 
I'm not , put in Jo decidedly . 
I hate to be patronized , and the Chesters think it's a great favor to allow us to help with their highly connected fair . 
I wonder you consented , Amy , they only want you to work . 
I am willing to work . 
It's for the freedmen as well as the Chesters , and I think it very kind of them to let me share the labor and the fun . 
Patronage does not trouble me when it is well meant . 
I like your grateful spirit , my dear . 
It's a pleasure to help people who appreciate our efforts . 
Some do not , and that is trying , observed Aunt March , looking over her spectacles at Jo , who sat apart , rocking herself , with a somewhat morose expression . 
Better for us that we cannot as a general thing , but now and then it would be such a comfort , such a saving of time and temper . 
By her next speech , Jo deprived herself of several years of pleasure , and received a timely lesson in the art of holding her tongue . 
I don't like favors , they oppress and make me feel like a slave . 
I'd rather do everything for myself , and be perfectly independent . 
Ahem ! coughed Aunt Carrol softly , with a look at Aunt March . 
I told you so , said Aunt March , with a decided nod to Aunt Carrol . 
Mercifully unconscious of what she had done , Jo sat with her nose in the air , and a revolutionary aspect which was anything but inviting . 
Do you speak French , dear ? asked Mrs. Carrol , laying a hand on Amy's . 
How are you about languages ? asked Mrs. Carrol of JO . 
I'm very stupid about studying anything , can't bear French , it's such a slippery , silly sort of language , was the brusque reply . 
I'm very well , and mean to do great things next winter , so that I may be ready for Rome , whenever that joyful time arrives . 
Most observing bird , said the old lady . 
Come and take a walk , my dear ? cried Polly , hopping toward the china closet , with a look suggestive of a lump of sugar . 
Thank you , I will . 
And Jo brought the visit to an end , feeling more strongly than ever that calls did have a bad effect upon her constitution . 
You'd better do it , Mary . 
And Aunt Carrol to reply decidedly , I certainly will , if her father and mother consent . 
May Chester was rather jealous of Amy because the latter was a greater favorite than herself , and just at this time several trifling circumstances occurred to increase the feeling . 
Amy's dainty pen and ink work entirely eclipsed May's painted vases that was one thorn . 
Then the all conquering Tudor had danced four times with Amy at a late party and only once with May that was thorn number two . 
All the blame of this should have fallen upon Jo , for her naughty imitation had been too lifelike to escape detection , and the frolicsome Lambs had permitted the joke to escape . 
I find , dear , that there is some feeling among the young ladies about my giving this table to anyone but my girls . 
I'm sorry , but I know you are too sincerely interested in the cause to mind a little personal disappointment , and you shall have another table if you like . 
It's merely a matter of expediency , you see , my girls will naturally take the lead , and this table is considered their proper place . 
Wouldn't you like the flower table ? The little girls undertook it , but they are discouraged . 
You could make a charming thing of it , and the flower table is always attractive you know . 
Especially to gentlemen , added May , with a look which enlightened Amy as to one cause of her sudden fall from favor . 
She colored angrily , but took no other notice of that girlish sarcasm , and answered with unexpected amiability . 
It shall be as you please , Mrs. Chester . 
I'll give up my place here at once , and attend to the flowers , if you like . 
She meant it kindly , but Amy mistook her meaning , and said quickly . 
Oh , dear , I wish I hadn't asked you to speak , Mama , said May , looking disconsolately at the empty spaces on her table . 
Girls' quarrels are soon over , returned her mother , feeling a trifle ashamed of her own part in this one , as well she might . 
But everything seemed against her . 
It was late , and she was tired . 
The evergreen arch wouldn't stay firm after she got it up , but wiggled and threatened to tumble down on her head when the hanging baskets were filled . 
Her best tile got a splash of water , which left a sephia tear on the Cupid's cheek . 
She bruised her hands with hammering , and got cold working in a draft , which last affliction filled her with apprehensions for the morrow . 
Any girl reader who has suffered like afflictions will sympathize with poor Amy and wish her well through her task . 
There was great indignation at home when she told her story that evening . 
Her mother said it was a shame , but told her she had done right . 
Beth declared she wouldn't go to the fair at all , and Jo demanded why she didn't take all her pretty things and leave those mean people to get on without her . 
Because they are mean is no reason why i should be . 
I hate such things , and though I think I've a right to be hurt , I don't intend to show it . 
They will feel that more than angry speeches or huffy actions , won't they , Marmee ? That's the right spirit , my dear . 
In spite of various very natural temptations to resent and retaliate , Amy adhered to her resolution all the next day , bent on conquering her enemy by kindness . 
She began well , thanks to a silent reminder that came to her unexpectedly , but most opportunely . 
As she turned the pages rich in dainty devices with very pardonable pride , her eye fell upon one verse that made her stop and think . 
Amy stood a minute , turning the leaves in her hand , reading on each some sweet rebuke for all heartburnings and uncharitableness of spirit . 
Many wise and true sermons are preached us every day by unconscious ministers in street , school , office , or home . 
Even a fair table may become a pulpit , if it can offer the good and helpful words which are never out of season . 
A group of girls were standing about May's table , admiring the pretty things , and talking over the change of saleswomen . 
They dropped their voices , but Amy knew they were speaking of her , hearing one side of the story and judging accordingly . 
It was not pleasant , but a better spirit had come over her , and presently a chance offered for proving it . 
She heard May say sorrowfully . 
It's too bad , for there is no time to make other things , and I don't want to fill up with odds and ends . 
The table was just complete then . 
I dare say she'd put them back if you asked her , suggested someone . 
How could I after all the fuss ? began May , but she did not finish , for Amy's voice came across the hall , saying pleasantly . 
You may have them , and welcome , without asking , if you want them . 
I was just thinking I'd offer to put them back , for they belong to your table rather than mine . 
Here they are , please take them , and forgive me if I was hasty in carrying them away last night . 
Now , I call that lovely of her , don't you ? cried one girl . 
Now , that was hard . 
It was a very long day and a hard one for Amy , as she sat behind her table , often quite alone , for the little girls deserted very soon . 
Few cared to buy flowers in summer , and her bouquets began to droop long before night . 
The art table was the most attractive in the room . 
There was a crowd about it all day long , and the tenders were constantly flying to and fro with important faces and rattling money boxes . 
Amy often looked wistfully across , longing to be there , where she felt at home and happy , instead of in a corner with nothing to do . 
Her mother gave her an extra cordial cup of tea . 
Don't do anything rude , pray Jo . 
I merely intend to make myself entrancingly agreeable to ever one I know , and to keep them in your corner as long as possible . 
Teddy and his boys will lend a hand , and we'll have a good time yet . 
returned Jo , leaning over the gate to watch for Laurie . 
Presently the familiar tramp was heard in the dusk , and she ran out to meet him . 
Is that my boy ? As sure as this is my girl ! And Laurie tucked her hand under his arm with the air of a man whose every wish was gratified . 
Oh , teddy , such doings ! And Jo told Amy's wrongs with sisterly zeal . 
The flowers are not at all nice , Amy says , and the fresh ones may not arrive in time . 
I don't wish to be unjust or suspicious , but I shouldn't wonder if they never came at all . 
When people do one mean thing they are very likely to do another , observed Jo in a disgusted tone . 
Didn't Hayes give you the best out of our gardens ? I told him to . 
I didn't know that , he forgot , I suppose , and , as your grandpa was poorly , I didn't like to worry him by asking , though I did want some . 
Now , Jo , how could you think there was any need of asking ? They are just as much yours as mine . 
Don't we always go halves in everything ? began Laurie , in the tone that always made Jo turn thorny . 
Gracious , I hope not ! Half of some of your things wouldn't suit me at all . 
But we mustn't stand philandering here . 
Thanks to the conspirators , the tables were turned that night , for Hayes sent up a wilderness of flowers , with a loverly basket arranged in his best manner for a centerpiece . 
Laurie and his friends gallantly threw themselves into the breach , bought up the bouquets , encamped before the table , and made that corner the liveliest spot in the room . 
She reproached herself for her share of the ill feeling and resolved to exonerate Amy as soon as possible . 
She also discovered what Amy had done about the things in the morning , and considered her a model of magnanimity . 
As she passed the art table , she glanced over it for her sister's things , but saw no sign of them . 
Tucked away out of sight , I dare say , thought Jo , who could forgiver her own wrongs , but hotly resented any insult offered her family . 
Good evening , Miss Jo . 
How does Amy get on ? asked May with a conciliatory air , for she wanted to show that she also could be generous . 
She has sold everything she had that was worth selling , and now she is enjoying herself . 
The flower table is always attractive , you know , especially to gentlemen' . 
Jo couldn't resist giving that little slap , but May took it so meekly she regretted it a minute after , and fell to praising the great vases , which still remained unsold . 
Is Amy's illumination anywhere about I took a fancy to buy that for Father , said Jo , very anxious to learn the fate of her sister's work . 
Everything of Amy's sold long ago . 
Much gratified , Jo rushed back to tell the good news , and Amy looked both touched and surprised by the report of May's word and manner . 
Very well , my son , for a small boy ! and walked him off , with a paternal pat on the head . 
Buy the vases , whispered Amy to Laurie , as a final heaping of coals of fire on her enemy's head . 
To May's great delight , Mr. Laurence not only bought the vases , but pervaded the hall with one under each arm . 
That satisfied Amy , and when she got home she found the vases paraded on the parlor chimney piece with a great bouquet in each . 
The reward of merit for a magnanimous March , as Laurie announced with a flourish . 
You've a deal more principle and generosity and nobleness of character than I ever gave you credit for , Amy . 
You've behaved sweetly , and I respect you with all my heart , said Jo warmly , as they brushed their hair together late that night . 
Yes , we all do , and love her for being so ready to forgive . 
It must have been dreadfully hard , after working so long and setting your heart on selling your own pretty things . 
I don't believe I could have done it as kindly as you did , added Beth from her pillow . 
Why , girls , you needn't praise me so . 
I only did as I'd be done by . 
I can't explain exactly , but I want to be above the little meannesses and follies and faults that spoil so many women . 
I'm far from it now , but I do my best , and hope in time to be what Mother is . 
Amy spoke earnestly , and Jo said , with a cordial hug , I understand now what you mean , and I'll never laugh at you again . 
You are getting on faster than you think , and I'll take lessons of you in true politeness , for you've learned the secret , I believe . 
Try away , deary , you'll get your reward some day , and no one will be more delighted than I shall . 
A week later Amy did get her reward , and poor Jo found it hard to be delighted . 
Aunt Carrol is going abroad next month , and wants . 
Me to go with her ! burst in Jo , flying out of her chair in an uncontrollable rapture . 
No , dear , not you . 
Oh , Mother ! She's too young , it's my turn first . 
I've wanted it so long . 
It would do me so much good , and be so altogether splendid . 
I must go ! I'm afraid it's impossible , Jo . 
Aunt says Amy , decidedly , and it is not for us to dictate when she offers such a favor . 
Amy has all the fun and I have all the work . 
It isn't fair , oh , it isn't fair ! cried Jo passionately . 
I'm afraid it's partly your own fault , dear . 
Amy is more docile , will make a good companion for Flo , and receive gratefully any help the trip may give her . 
Oh , my tongue , my abominable tongue ! Why can't I learn to keep it quiet ? groaned Jo , remembering words which had been her undoing . 
When she had heard the explanation of the quoted phrases , Mrs. March said sorrowfully . 
I wish you could have gone , but there is no hope of it this time , so try to bear it cheerfully , and don't sadden Amy's pleasure by reproaches or regrets . 
I'll try , said Jo , winking hard as she knelt down to pick up the basket she had joyfully upset . 
I'll take a leaf out of her book , and try not only to seem glad , but to be so , and not grudge her one minute of happiness . 
But it won't be easy , for it is a dreadful disappointment . 
And poor Jo bedewed the little fat pincushion she held with several very bitter tears . 
It isn't a mere pleasure trip to me , girls , she said impressively , as she scraped her best palette . 
It will decide my career , for if I have any genius , I shall find it out in Rome , and will do something to prove it . 
Suppose you haven't ? said Jo , sewing away , with red eyes , at the new collars which were to be handed over to Amy . 
Then I shall come home and teach drawing for my living , replied the aspirant for fame , with philosophic composure . 
But she made a wry face at the prospect , and scratched away at her palette as if bent on vigorous measures before she gave up her hopes . 
You hate hard work , and you'll marry some rich man , and come home to sit in the lap of luxury all your days , said Jo . 
Your predictions sometimes come to pass , but I don't believe that one will . 
Hum ! said Jo , with a sigh . 
If you wish it you'll have it , for your wishes are always granted mine never . 
Would you like to go ? asked Amy , thoughtfully patting her nose with her knife . 
I'll remind you of your promise when that joyful day comes , if it ever does , returned Jo , accepting the vague but magnificent offer as gratefully as she could . 
There was not much time for preparation , and the house was in a ferment till Amy was off . 
Jo bore up very well till the last flutter of blue ribbon vanished , when she retired to her refuge , the garret , and cried till she couldn't cry any more . 
Amy likewise bore up stoutly till the steamer sailed . 
Oh , take care of them for me , and if anything should happen . 
CHAPTER THIRTY ONE London Dearest People , Here I really sit at a front window of the Bath Hotel , Piccadilly . 
It's not a fashionable place , but Uncle stopped here years ago , and won't go anywhere else . 
However , we don't mean to stay long , so it's no great matter . 
Everyone was very kind to me , especially the officers . 
Aunt and Flo were poorly all the way , and liked to be let alone , so when I had done what I could for them , I went and enjoyed myself . 
Such walks on deck , such sunsets , such splendid air and waves ! It was almost as exciting as riding a fast horse , when we went rushing on so grandly . 
I wish Beth could have come , it would have done her so much good . 
I never shall forget it . 
Wasn't that nonsensical ? We only stopped at Liverpool a few hours . 
It's a dirty , noisy place , and I was glad to leave it . 
Uncle rushed out and bought a pair of dogskin gloves , some ugly , thick shoes , and an umbrella , and got shaved a la mutton chop , the first thing . 
I've given em the latest Yankee shine . 
Wasn't that fun , girls ? I like traveling . 
I never shall get to London if I don't hurry . 
The trip was like riding through a long picture gallery , full of lovely landscapes . 
The farmhouses were my delight , with thatched roofs , ivy up to the eaves , latticed windows , and stout women with rosy children at the doors . 
Such perfect color I never saw , the grass so green , sky so blue , grain so yellow , woods so dark , I was in a rapture all the way . 
So was Flo , and we kept bouncing from one side to the other , trying to see everything while we were whisking along at the rate of sixty miles an hour . 
Aunt was tired and went to sleep , but Uncle read his guidebook , and wouldn't be astonished at anything . 
This is the way we went on . 
A pause then Flo cried out , Bless me , there's a gallows and a man going up . 
Where , where ? shrieks Amy , staring out at two tall posts with a crossbeam and some dangling chains . 
A colliery , remarks Uncle , with a twinkle of the eye . 
Here's a lovely flock of lambs all lying down , says Amy . 
See , Papa , aren't they pretty ? added Flo sentimentally . 
Of course it rained when we got to London , and there was nothing to be seen but fog and umbrellas . 
We rested , unpacked , and shopped a little between the showers . 
Aunt Mary got me some new things , for I came off in such a hurry I wasn't half ready . 
A white hat and blue feather , a muslin dress to match , and the loveliest mantle you ever saw . 
Shopping in Regent Street is perfectly splendid . 
Things seem so cheap , nice ribbons only sixpence a yard . 
I laid in a stock , but shall get my gloves in Paris . 
It was so droll ! For when we were shut in by the wooden apron , the man drove so fast that Flo was frightened , and told me to stop him . 
but he was up outside behind somewhere , and I couldn't get at him . 
At last , in my despair , I saw a little door in the roof , and on poking it open , a red eye appeared , and a beery voice said . 
I poked again and said , A little faster , then off he went , helter skelter as before , and we resigned ourselves to our fate . 
Today was fair , and we went to Hyde Park , close by , for we are more aristocratic than we look . 
The Duke of Devonshire lives near . 
I often see his footmen lounging at the back gate , and the Duke of Wellington's house is not far off . 
Rotten Row means Route de Roi' , or the king's way , but now it's more like a riding school than anything else . 
The horses are splendid , and the men , especially the grooms , ride well , but the women are stiff , and bounce , which isn't according to our rules . 
It's very late , but I can't let my letter go in the morning without telling you what happened last evening . 
both are tall fellows with whiskers , Fred handsome in the English style , and Frank much better , for he only limps slightly , and uses no crutches . 
Tell Beth Frank asked for her , and was sorry to hear of her ill health . 
Fred laughed when I spoke of Jo , and sent his respectful compliments to the big hat' . 
Neither of them had forgotten Camp Laurence , or the fun we had there . 
What ages ago it seems , doesn't it ? Aunt is tapping on the wall for the third time , so I must stop . 
I long to see you all , and in spite of my nonsense am , as ever , your loving . 
AMY PARIS Dear girls , In my last I told you about our London visit , how kind the Vaughns were , and what pleasant parties they made for us . 
Well , we were hardly settled here , when he turned up again , saying he had come for a holiday , and was going to Switzerland . 
Aunt looked sober at first , but he was so cool about it she couldn't say a word . 
And now we get on nicely , and are very glad he came , for he speaks French like a native , and I don't know what we should do without him . 
Uncle doesn't know ten words , and insists on talking English very loud , as if it would make people understand him . 
Such delightful times as we are having ! Sight seeing from morning till night , stopping for nice lunches in the gay cafes , and meeting with all sorts of droll adventures . 
Rainy days I spend in the Louvre , revelling in pictures . 
I'll talk for hours about them when I come , but haven't time to write . 
The Palais Royale is a heavenly place , so full of bijouterie and lovely things that I'm nearly distracted because I can't buy them . 
Fred wanted to get me some , but of course I didn't allow it . 
Then the Bois and Champs Elysees are tres magnifique . 
We often walk in the Tuileries Gardens , for they are lovely , though the antique Luxembourg Gardens suit me better . 
Our rooms are on the Rue de Rivoli , and sitting on the balcony , we look up and down the long , brilliant street . 
It is so pleasant that we spend our evenings talking there when too tired with our day's work to go out . 
Fred is very entertaining , and is altogether the most agreeable young man I ever knew except Laurie , whose manners are more charming . 
Next week we are off to Germany and Switzerland , and as we shall travel fast , I shall only be able to give you hasty letters . 
I keep my diary , and try to remember correctly and describe clearly all that I see and admire' , as Father advised . 
It is good practice for me , and with my sketchbook will give you a better idea of my tour than these scribbles . 
Adieu , I embrace you tenderly . 
The sail up the Rhine was perfect , and I just sat and enjoyed it with all my might . 
Get Father's old guidebooks and read about it . 
I haven't words beautiful enough to describe it . 
At Coblenz we had a lovely time , for some students from Bonn , with whom Fred got acquainted on the boat , gave us a serenade . 
It was a moonlight night , and about one o'clock Flo and I were waked by the most delicious music under our windows . 
We flew up , and hid behind the curtains , but sly peeps showed us Fred and the students singing away down below . 
Next morning Fred showed me one of the crumpled flowers in his vest pocket , and looked very sentimental . 
I'm afraid I'm going to have trouble with that boy , it begins to look like it . 
The baths at Nassau were very gay , so was Baden Baden , where Fred lost some money , and I scolded him . 
He needs someone to look after him when Frank is not with him . 
Kate said once she hoped he'd marry soon , and I quite agree with her that it would be well for him . 
I saw Goeth's house , Schiller's statue , and Dannecker's famous Ariadne . 
It was very lovely , but I should have enjoyed it more if I had known the story better . 
I didn't like to ask , as everyone knew it or pretended they did . 
I wish Jo would tell me all about it . 
I ought to have read more , for I find I don't know anything , and it mortifies me . 
Now comes the serious part , for it happened here , and Fred has just gone . 
He has been so kind and jolly that we all got quite fond of him . 
I never thought of anything but a traveling friendship till the serenade night . 
Since then I've begun to feel that the moonlight walks , balcony talks , and daily adventures were something more to him than fun . 
I haven't flirted , Mother , truly , but remembered what you said to me , and have done my very best . 
I can't help it if people like me . 
I don't try to make them , and it worries me if I don't care for them , though Jo says I haven't got any heart . 
I like him , and we get on comfortably together . 
He is handsome , young , clever enough , and very rich ever so much richer than the Laurences . 
I don't think his family would object , and I should be very happy , for they are all kind , well bred , generous people , and they like me . 
I like it , for it's genuine . 
I've seen the plate , the family jewels , the old servants , and pictures of the country place , with its park , great house , lovely grounds , and fine horses . 
Oh , it would be all I should ask ! And I'd rather have it than any title such as girls snap up so readily , and find nothing behind . 
I may be mercenary , but I hate poverty , and don't mean to bear it a minute longer than I can help . 
One of us must marry well . 
Meg didn't , Jo won't , Beth can't yet , so I shall , and make everything okay all round . 
I wouldn't marry a man I hated or despised . 
So I've been turning the matter over in my mind the last week , for it was impossible to help seeing that Fred liked me . 
He said nothing , but little things showed it . 
He isn't one of the cool , stiff Englishmen , but is rather peppery , for he has Scotch blood in him , as one might guess from his bonnie blue eyes . 
We had a charming time poking about the ruins , the vaults where the monster tun is , and the beautiful gardens made by the elector long ago for his English wife . 
I had a feeling that something was going to happen and I was ready for it . 
I didn't feel blushy or quakey , but quite cool and only a little excited . 
By and by I heard Fred's voice , and then he came hurrying through the great arch to find me . 
He looked so troubled that I forgot all about myself , and asked what the matter was . 
He said he'd just got a letter begging him to come home , for Frank was very ill . 
So he was going at once on the night train and only had time to say good by . 
Don't be anxious about me , remember I am your prudent Amy' , and be sure I will do nothing rashly . 
Send me as much advice as you like . 
I'll use it if I can . 
I wish I could see you for a good talk , Marmee . 
Ever your AMY CHAPTER THIRTY TWO Jo , I'm anxious about Beth . 
Why , Mother , she has seemed unusually well since the babies came . 
It's not her health that troubles me now , it's her spirits . 
I'm sure there is something on her mind , and I want you to discover what it is . 
What makes you think so , Mother ? She sits alone a good deal , and doesn't talk to her father as much as she used . 
I found her crying over the babies the other day . 
When she sings , the songs are always sad ones , and now and then I see a look in her face that I don't understand . 
This isn't like Beth , and it worries me . 
Have you asked her about it ? I have tried once or twice , but she either evaded my questions or looked so distressed that I stopped . 
I never force my children's confidence , and I seldom have to wait for long . 
Why , Mother , Beth's eighteen , but we don't realize it , and treat her like a child , forgetting she's a woman . 
Dear heart , how fast you do grow up , returned her mother with a sigh and a smile . 
Can't be helped , Marmee , so you must resign yourself to all sorts of worries , and let your birds hop out of the nest , one by one . 
I promise never to hop very far , if that is any comfort to you . 
It's a great comfort , Jo . 
I always feel strong when you are at home , now Meg is gone . 
Beth is too feeble and Amy too young to depend upon , but when the tug comes , you are always ready . 
Why , you know I don't mind hard jobs much , and there must always be one scrub in a family . 
Amy is distinguishing herself abroad , but if anything is amiss at home , I'm your man . 
I leave Beth to your hands , then , for she will open her tender little heart to her Jo sooner than to anyone else . 
Be very kind , and don't let her think anyone watches or talks about her . 
If she only would get quite strong and cheerful again , I shouldn't have a wish in the world . 
Happy woman ! I've got heaps . 
My dear , what are they ? I'll settle Bethy's troubles , and then I'll tell you mine . 
They are not very wearing , so they'll keep . 
And Jo stitched away , with a wise nod which set her mother's heart at rest about her for the present at least . 
While apparently absorbed in her own affairs , Jo watched Beth , and after many conflicting conjectures , finally settled upon one which seemed to explain the change in her . 
A slight incident gave Jo the clue to the mystery , she thought , and lively fancy , loving heart did the rest . 
She was affecting to write busily one Saturday afternoon , when she and Beth were alone together . 
Yet as she scribbled , she kept her eye on her sister , who seemed unusually quiet . 
Suddenly some one passed below , whistling like an operatic blackbird , and a voice called out , All serene ! Coming in tonight . 
Beth whisked it off , and in her half averted face read a tender sorrow that made her own eyes fill . 
Fearing to betray herself , she slipped away , murmuring something about needing more paper . 
Mercy on me , Beth loves Laurie ! she said , sitting down in her own room , pale with the shock of the discovery which she believed she had just made . 
I never dreamed of such a thing . 
What will Mother say ? I wonder if her . 
there Jo stopped and turned scarlet with a sudden thought . 
If he shouldn't love back again , how dreadful it would be . 
I'll make him ! And she shook her head threateningly at the picture of the mischievous looking boy laughing at her from the wall . 
Oh dear , we are growing up with a vengeance . 
Here's Meg married and a mamma , Amy flourishing away at Paris , and Beth in love . 
I'm the only one that has sense enough to keep out of mischief . 
So you needn't write touching notes and smile in that insinuating way , for it won't do a bit of good , and I won't have it . 
Then she sighed , and fell into a reverie from which she did not wake till the early twilight sent her down to take new observations , which only confirmed her suspicion . 
Though Laurie flirted with Amy and joked with Jo , his manner to Beth had always been peculiarly kind and gentle , but so was everybody's . 
Therefore , no one thought of imagining that he cared more for her than for the others . 
If they had known the various tender passages which had been nipped in the bud , they would have had the immense satisfaction of saying , I told you so . 
But Jo hated philandering' , and wouldn't allow it , always having a joke or a smile ready at the least sign of impending danger . 
But there came a time when Laurie ceased to worship at many shrines , hinted darkly at one all absorbing passion , and indulged occasionally in Byronic fits of gloom . 
Things were in this state when the grand discovery was made , and Jo watched Laurie that night as she had never done before . 
If she had not got the new idea into her head , she would have seen nothing unusual in the fact that Beth was very quiet , and Laurie very kind to her . 
Who knows ? Stranger things have happened , thought Jo , as she fussed about the room . 
She will make quite an angel of him , and he will make life delightfully easy and pleasant for the dear , if they only love each other . 
I don't see how he can help it , and I do believe he would if the rest of us were out of the way . 
As everyone was out of the way but herself , Jo began to feel that she ought to dispose of herself with all speed . 
But where should she go ? And burning to lay herself upon the shrine of sisterly devotion , she sat down to settle that point . 
They all loved it , for it was a family refuge , and one corner had always been Jo's favorite lounging place . 
Among the many pillows that adorned the venerable couch was one , hard , round , covered with prickly horsehair , and furnished with a knobby button at each end . 
This repulsive pillow was her especial property , being used as a weapon of defense , a barricade , or a stern preventive of too much slumber . 
Now , this is filling at the price . 
No slang , snapped Jo , slamming down the pillow . 
But it was too late , there was no room for it , and coasting onto the floor , it disappeared in a most mysterious manner . 
Come , Jo , don't be thorny . 
After studying himself to a skeleton all the week , a fellow deserves petting and ought to get it . 
No , she's not to be bothered with me , but you like that sort of thing , unless you've suddenly lost your taste for it . 
I'm glad of it , that's one of your foolish extravagances , sending flowers and things to girls for whom you don't care two pins , continued Jo reprovingly . 
Sensible girls for whom I do care whole papers of pins won't let me send them flowers and things' , so what can I do ? My feelings need a vent' . 
Mother doesn't approve of flirting even in fun , and you do flirt desperately , Teddy . 
I'd give anything if I could answer , So do you' . 
As I can't , I'll merely say that I don't see any harm in that pleasant little game , if all parties understand that it's only play . 
Well , it does look pleasant , but I can't learn how it's done . 
I've tried , because one feels awkward in company not to do as everybody else id doing , but I don't seem to get on , said Jo , forgetting to play mentor . 
Take lessons of Amy , she has a regular talent for it . 
Yes , she does it very prettily , and never seems to go too far . 
I suppose it's natural to some people to please without trying , and others to always say and do the wrong thing in the wrong place . 
I'm glad you can't flirt . 
It's really refreshing to see a sensible , straightforward girl , who can be jolly and kind without making a fool of herself . 
Between ourselves , Jo , some of the girls I know really do go on at such a rate I'm ashamed of them . 
They don't mean any harm , I'm sure , but if they knew how we fellows talked about them afterward , they'd mend their ways , I fancy . 
They do the same , and as their tongues are the sharpest , you fellows get the worst of it , for you are as silly as they , every bit . 
If you behaved properly , they would , but knowing you like their nonsense , they keep it up , and then you blame them . 
Much you know about it , ma'am , said Laurie in a superior tone . 
We don't like romps and flirts , though we may act as if we did sometimes . 
The pretty , modest girls are never talked about , except respectfully , among gentleman . 
Bless your innocent soul ! If you could be in my place for a month you'd see things that would astonish you a trifle . 
Upon my word , when I see one of those harum scarum girls , I always want to say with our friend Cock Robin . 
You really advise it ? And Laurie looked at her with an odd mixture of anxiety and merriment in his face . 
Yes , I do , but you'd better wait till you are through college , on the whole , and be fitting yourself for the place meantime . 
You're not half good enough for well , whoever the modest girl may be . 
And Jo looked a little queer likewise , for a name had almost escaped her . 
That I'm not ! acquiesced Laurie , with an expression of humility quite new to him , as he dropped his eyes and absently wound Jo's apron tassel round his finger . 
Mercy on us , this will never do , thought Jo , adding aloud , Go and sing to me . 
I'm dying for some music , and always like yours . 
I'd rather stay here , thank you . 
Well , you can't , there isn't room . 
Go and make yourself useful , since you are too big to be ornamental . 
I thought you hated to be tied to a woman's apron string ? retorted Jo , quoting certain rebellious words of his own . 
Ah , that depends on who wears the apron ! and Laurie gave an audacious tweak at the tassel . 
Are you going ? demanded Jo , diving for the pillow . 
Is it the old pain , my precious ? No , it's a new one , but I can bear it . 
And Beth tried to check her tears . 
Tell me all about it , and let me cure it as I often did the other . 
You can't , there is no cure . 
There Beth's voice gave way , and clinging to her sister , she cried so despairingly that Jo was frightened . 
Where is it ? Shall I call Mother ? No , no , don't call her , don't tell her . 
I shall be better soon . 
Lie down here and poor' my head . 
I'll be quiet and go to sleep , indeed I will . 
Jo obeyed , but as her hand went softly to and fro across Beth's hot forehead and wet eyelids , her heart was very full and she longed to speak . 
Wouldn't it comfort you to tell me what it is ? not now , not yet . 
Then I won't ask , but remember , Bethy , that Mother and Jo are always glad to hear and help you , if they can . 
I'll tell you by and by . 
Is the pain better now ? Oh , yes , much better , you are so comfortable , Jo . 
Go to sleep , dear . 
But Jo had made up her mind , and after pondering over a project for some days , she confided it to her mother . 
You asked me the other day what my wishes were . 
I'll tell you one of them , Marmee , she began , as they sat along together . 
I want to go away somewhere this winter for a change . 
Why , Jo ? And her mother looked up quickly , as if the words suggested a double meaning . 
With her eyes on her work Jo answered soberly , I want something new . 
I feel restless and anxious to be seeing , doing , and learning more than I am . 
Where will you hop ? To New York . 
I had a bright idea yesterday , and this is it . 
You know Mrs. Kirke wrote to you for some respectable young person to teach her children and sew . 
It's rather hard to find just the thing , but I think I should suit if I tried . 
My dear , go out to service in that great boarding house ! And Mrs. March looked surprised , but not displeased . 
It's not exactly going out to service , for Mrs. Kirke is your friend the kindest soul that ever lived and would make things pleasant for me , I know . 
Her family is separate from the rest , and no one knows me there . 
Don't care if they do . 
It's honest work , and I'm not ashamed of it . 
Nor I. But your writing ? All the better for the change . 
I shall see and hear new things , get new ideas , and even if I haven't much time there , I shall bring home quantities of material for my rubbish . 
I have no doubt of it , but are these your only reasons for this sudden fancy ? No , Mother . 
May I know the others ? Jo looked up and Jo looked down , then said slowly , with sudden color in her cheeks . 
It may be vain and wrong to say it , but I'm afraid Laurie is getting too fond of me . 
Then you don't care for him in the way it is evident he begins to care for you ? And Mrs. March looked anxious as she put the question . 
Mercy , no ! I love the dear boy , as I always have , and am immensely proud of him , but as for anything more , it's out of the question . 
I'm glad of that , Jo . 
Why , please ? Because , dear , I don't think you suited to one another . 
As friends you are very happy , and your frequent quarrels soon blow over , but I fear you would both rebel if you were mated for life . 
That's just the feeling I had , though I couldn't express it . 
I'm glad you think he is only beginning to care for me . 
He hasn't said anything , but he looks a great deal . 
I think I had better go away before it comes to anything . 
I agree with you , and if it can be managed you shall go . 
AH , Jo , mothers may differ in their management , but the hope is the same in all the desire to see their children happy . 
Meg is so , and I am content with her success . 
You I leave to enjoy your liberty till you tire of it , for only then will you find that there is something sweeter . 
Amy is my chief care now , but her good sense will help her . 
For Beth , I indulge no hopes except that she may be well . 
By the way , she seems brighter this last day or two . 
Have you spoken to her ? Yes , she owned she had a trouble , and promised to tell me by and by . 
I said no more , for I think I know it , And Jo told her little story . 
Let us say nothing about it to him till the plan is settled , then I'll run away before he can collect his wits and be tragic . 
Beth must think I'm going to please myself , as I am , for I can't talk about Laurie to her . 
But she can pet and comfort him after I'm gone , and so cure him of this romantic notion . 
He's been through so many little trials of the sort , he's used to it , and will soon get over his lovelornity . 
The plan was talked over in a family council and agreed upon , for Mrs. Kirke gladly accepted Jo , and promised to make a pleasant home for her . 
The teaching would render her independent , and such leisure as she got might be made profitable by writing , while the new scenes and society would be both useful and agreeable . 
Jo liked the prospect and was eager to be gone , for the home nest was growing too narrow for her restless nature and adventurous spirit . 
When all was settled , with fear and trembling she told Laurie , but to her surprise he took it very quietly . 
One thing I leave in your especial care , she said , the night before she left . 
You mean your papers ? asked Beth . 
Be very good to him , won't you ? Of course I will , but I can't fill your place , and he'll miss you sadly . 
It won't hurt him , so remember , I leave him in your charge , to plague , pet , and keep in order . 
I'll do my best , for your sake , promised Beth , wondering why Jo looked at her so queerly . 
When Laurie said good by , he whispered significantly , It won't do a bit of good , Jo . 
My eye is on you , so mind what you do , or I'll come and bring you home . 
Soon the sun came out , and taking it as a good omen , I cleared up likewise and enjoyed my journey with all my heart . 
Mrs. Kirke welcomed me so kindly I felt at home at once , even in that big house full of strangers . 
A fine view and a church tower opposite atone for the many stairs , and I took a fancy to my den on the spot . 
My rooms are always open to you , and your own shall be as comfortable as I can make it . 
There are some pleasant people in the house if you feel sociable , and your evenings are always free . 
Come to me if anything goes wrong , and be as happy as you can . 
There's the tea bell , I must run and change my cap . 
And off she bustled , leaving me to settle myself in my new nest . 
As I went downstairs soon after , I saw something I liked . 
The little back is too young to haf such heaviness . 
Wasn't it good of him ? I like such things , for as Father says , trifles show character . 
When I mentioned it to Mrs. K. , that evening , she laughed , and said , That must have been Professor Bhaer , he's always doing things of that sort . 
Not a very romantic story , but it interested me , and I was glad to hear that Mrs. K. lends him her parlor for some of his scholars . 
There is a glass door between it and the nursery , and I mean to peep at him , and then I'll tell you how he looks . 
He's almost forty , so it's no harm , Marmee . 
After tea and a go to bed romp with the little girls , I attacked the big workbasket , and had a quiet evening chatting with my new friend . 
I shall keep a journal letter , and send it once a week , so goodnight , and more tomorrow . 
Tuesday Eve Had a lively time in my seminary this morning , for the children acted like Sancho , and at one time I really thought I should shake them all round . 
Some good angel inspired me to try gymnastics , and I kept it up till they were glad to sit down and keep still . 
After luncheon , the girl took them out for a walk , and I went to my needlework like little Mabel with a willing mind' . 
It was dreadfully improper , I know , but I couldn't resist the temptation , and lifting one end of the curtain before the glass door , I peeped in . 
Professor Bhaer was there , and while he arranged his books , I took a good look at him . 
Me wants me Bhaer , said the mite , slamming down her book and running to meet him . 
Thou shalt haf thy Bhaer . 
Now me mus tuddy my lessin , went on the funny little thing . 
Another knock and the appearance of two young ladies sent me back to my work , and there I virtuously remained through all the noise and gabbling that went on next door . 
Poor man , I pitied him , and when the girls were gone , took just one more peep to see if he survived it . 
I fancy he has a hard life of it . 
So I made myself respectable and tried to slip in behind Mrs. Kirke , but as she is short and I'm tall , my efforts at concealment were rather a failure . 
She gave me a seat by her , and after my face cooled off , I plucked up courage and looked about me . 
There was the usual assortment of young men absorbed in themselves , young couples absorbed in each other , married ladies in their babies , and old gentlemen in politics . 
I don't think I shall care to have much to do with any of them , except one sweetfaced maiden lady , who looks as if she had something in her . 
What the deuce is she at our table for ? Friend of the old lady's . 
Handsome head , but no style . 
Not a bit of it . 
Give us a light and come on . 
I picked up a few bits of news and was introduced to the Professor . 
It seems that Tina is the child of the Frenchwoman who does the fine ironing in the laundry here . 
Kitty and Minnie Kirk likewise regard him with affection , and tell all sorts of stories about the plays he invents , the presents he brings , and the splendid tales he tells . 
The younger men quiz him , it seems , call him Old Fritz , Lager Beer , Ursa Major , and make all manner of jokes on his name . 
But he enjoys it like a boy , Mrs. Kirke says , and takes it so good naturedly that they all like him in spite of his foreign ways . 
The maiden lady is a Miss Norton , rich , cultivated , and kind . 
, and asked me to come and see her at her room . 
I was in our parlor last evening when Mr. Bhaer came in with some newspapers for Mrs. Kirke . 
She wasn't there , but Minnie , who is a little old woman , introduced me very prettily . 
This is Mamma's friend , Miss March . 
Yes , and she's jolly and we like her lots , added Kitty , who is and enfant terrible' . 
We both bowed , and then we laughed , for the prim introduction and the blunt addition were rather a comical contrast . 
Ah , yes , I hear these naughty ones go to vex you , Mees Marsch . 
If so again , call at me and I come , he said , with a threatening frown that delighted the little wretches . 
It flew open , and there he stood in his dressing gown , with a big blue sock on one hand and a darning needle in the other . 
He didn't seem at all ashamed of it , for when I explained and hurried on , he waved his hand , sock and all , saying in his loud , cheerful way . 
You haf a fine day to make your walk . 
I laughed all the way downstairs , but it was a little pathetic , also to think of the poor man having to mend his own clothes . 
The German gentlemen embroider , I know , but darning hose is another thing and not so pretty . 
She put it as a favor , but I'm sure Mrs. Kirke has told her about us , and she does it out of kindness to me . 
I'm as proud as Lucifer , but such favors from such people don't burden me , and I accepted gratefully . 
We are playing nargerie , explained Kitty . 
Dis is mine effalunt ! added Tina , holding on by the Professor's hair . 
Mamma always allows us to do what we like Saturday afternoon , when Franz and Emil come , doesn't she , Mr. Bhaer ? said Minnie . 
I promised to do so , but left the door open and enjoyed the fun as much as they did , for a more glorious frolic I never witnessed . 
Pray forward Amy's as soon as you can spare them . 
My small news will sound very flat after her splendors , but you will like them , I know . 
P. S. On reading over my letter , it strikes me as rather Bhaery , but I am always interested in odd people , and I really had nothing else to write about . 
They are not so interesting tome as Tina and the boys , but I do my duty by them , and they are fond of me . 
Franz and Emil are jolly little lads , quite after my own heart , for the mixture of German and American spirit in the produces a constant state of effervescence . 
I really couldn't help it , and it all came about in such a droll way that I must tell you . 
To begin at the beginning , Mrs. Kirke called to me one day as I passed Mr. Bhaer's room where she was rummaging . 
I went in , and while we worked I looked about me , for it was a den' to be sure . 
Half finished boats and bits of string lay among the manuscripts . 
Such a man ! laughed good natured Mrs. K. , as she put the relics in the rag bay . 
I suppose the others are torn up to rig ships , bandage cut fingers , or make kite tails . 
It's dreadful , but I can't scold him . 
He's so absent minded and goodnatured , he lets those boys ride over him roughshod . 
I agreed to do his washing and mending , but he forgets to give out his things and I forget to look them over , so he comes to a sad pass sometimes . 
Let me mend them , said I. I don't mind it , and he needn't know . 
I'd like to , he's so kind to me about bringing my letters and lending books . 
So I have got his things in order , and knit heels into two pairs of the socks , for they were boggled out of shape with his queer darns . 
Nothing was said , and I hoped he wouldn't find it out , but one day last week he caught me at it . 
I had been sitting near this door , finishing off the last sock , and trying to understand what he said to a new scholar , who is as stupid as I am . 
I am too stupid to learn , I blundered out , as red as a peony . 
Prut ! We will make the time , and we fail not to find the sense . 
At efening I shall gif a little lesson with much gladness , for look you , Mees Marsch , I haf this debt to pay . 
Ah ! But I haf an eye , and I see much . 
I haf a heart , and I feel thanks for this . 
Come , a little lesson then and now , or no more good fairy works for me and mine . 
Of course I couldn't say anything after that , and as it really is a splendid opportunity , I made the bargain , and we began . 
I took four lessons , and then I stuck fast in a grammatical bog . 
I tried both ways , and when it came to a sniff or utter mortification and woe , he just threw the grammar on to the floor and marched out of the room . 
Now we shall try a new way . 
You and I will read these pleasant little MARCHEN together , and dig no more in that dry book , that goes in the corner for making us trouble . 
with all my might , tumbling over long words , pronouncing according to inspiration of the minute , and doing my very best . 
I do him in German , gif me your ear . 
And away he went , rumbling out the words with his strong voice and a relish which was good to see as well as hear . 
Tell me something nice , Marmee . 
I'm glad Laurie seems so happy and busy , that he has given up smoking and lets his hair grow . 
You see Beth manages him better than I did . 
I'm not jealous , dear , do your best , only don't make a saint of him . 
I'm afraid I couldn't like him without a spice of human naughtiness . 
Read him bits of my letters . 
I haven't time to write much , and that will do just as well . 
Thank Heaven Beth continues so comfortable . 
JANUARY A Happy New Year to you all , my dearest family , which of course includes Mr. L. and a young man by the name of Teddy . 
I can't tell you how much I enjoyed your Christmas bundle , for i didn't get it till night and had given up hoping . 
It was so homey and refreshing that I sat down on the floor and read and looked and ate and laughed and cried , in my usual absurd way . 
The things were just what I wanted , and all the better for being made instead of bought . 
Beth's new ink bib' was capital , and Hannah's box of hard gingerbread will be a treasure . 
I'll be sure and wear the nice flannels you sent , Marmee , and read carefully the books Father has marked . 
Thank you all , heaps and heaps ! Speaking of books reminds me that I'm getting rich in that line , for on New Year's Day Mr. Bhaer gave me a fine Shakespeare . 
You say often you wish a library . 
Here I gif you one , for between these lids is many books in one . 
I thanked him as well as I could , and talk now about my library' , as if I had a hundred books . 
I never knew how much there was in Shakespeare before , but then I never had a Bhaer to explain it to me . 
Now don't laugh at his horrid name . 
It isn't pronounced either Bear or Beer , as people will say it , but something between the two , as only Germans can give it . 
I'm glad you both like what I tell you about him , and hope you will know him some day . 
Mother would admire his warm heart , Father his wise head . 
I admire both , and feel rich in my new friend Friedrich Bhaer' . 
Not having much money , or knowing what he'd like , I got several little things , and put them about the room , where he would find them unexpectedly . 
I made it like those Beth invented , a big butterfly with a fat body , and black and yellow wings , worsted feelers , and bead eyes . 
It took his fancy immensely , and he put it on his mantlepiece as an article of virtue , so it was rather a failure after all . 
Poor as he is , he didn't forget a servant or a child in the house , and not a soul here , from the French laundrywoman to Miss Norton forgot him . 
I was so glad of that . 
They got up a masquerade , and had a gay time New Year's Eve . 
I didn't mean to go down , having no dress . 
But at the last minute , Mrs. Kirke remembered some old brocades , and Miss Norton lent me lace and feathers . 
So I dressed up as Mrs. Malaprop , and sailed in with a mask on . 
could dance and dress , and burst out into a nice derangement of epitaphs , like an allegory on the banks of the Nile' . 
I enjoyed it very much , and when we unmasked it was fun to see them stare at me . 
I heard one of the young men tell another that he knew I'd been an actress , in fact , he thought he remembered seeing me at one of the minor theaters . 
Meg will relish that joke . 
Mr. Bhaer was Nick Bottom , and Tina was Titania , a perfect little fairy in his arms . 
To see them dance was quite a landscape' , to use a Teddyism . 
Bless you all ! Ever your loving . 
The purpose which now took possession of her was a natural one to a poor and ambitious girl , but the means she took to gain her end were not the best . 
She saw that money conferred power , therefore , she resolved to have , not to be used for herself alone , but for those whom she loved more than life . 
The prize story experience had seemed to open a way which might , after long traveling and much uphill work , lead to this delightful chateau en Espagne . 
But the novel disaster quenched her courage for a time , for public opinion is a giant which has frightened stouter hearted Jacks on bigger beanstalks than hers . 
Like that immortal hero , she reposed awhile after the first attempt , which resulted in a tumble and the least lovely of the giant's treasures , if I remember rightly . 
She took to writing sensation stories , for in those dark ages , even all perfect America read rubbish . 
She told no one , but concocted a thrilling tale' , and boldly carried it herself to Mr. Dashwood , editor of the Weekly Volcano . 
She had never read Sartor Resartus , but she had a womanly instinct that clothes possess an influence more powerful over many than the worth of character or the magic of manners . 
somewhat daunted by this reception , Jo hesitated on the threshold , murmuring in much embarrassment . 
Excuse me , I was looking for the Weekly Volcano office . 
I wished to see Mr. Dashwood . 
A friend of mine desired me to offer a story just as an experiment would like your opinion be glad to write more if this suits . 
She has had some experience , and got a prize for a tale in the BLARNEYSTONE BANNER . 
Well , you can leave it , if you like . 
When she went again , Mr. Dashwood was alone , whereat she rejoiced . 
, if you don't object to a few alterations . 
It's too long , but omitting the passages I've marked will make it just the right length , he said , in a businesslike tone . 
But , Sir , I thought every story should have some sort of a moral , so I took care to have a few of my sinners repent . 
Mr. Dashwoods's editorial gravity relaxed into a smile , for Jo had forgotten her friend' , and spoken as only an author could . 
People want to be amused , not preached at , you know . 
Which was not quite a correct statement , by the way . 
What do you that is , what compensation began Jo , not exactly knowing how to express herself . 
Oh , yes , well , we give from twenty five to thirty for things of this sort . 
Pay when it comes out , returned Mr. Dashwood , as if that point had escaped him . 
Such trifles do escape the editorial mind , it is said . 
Well , we'll look at it . 
Can't promise to take it . 
Tell her to make it short and spicy , and never mind the moral . 
What name would your friend like to put on it ? in a careless tone . 
None at all , if you please , she doesn't wish her name to appear and has no nom de plume , said Jo , blushing in spite of herself . 
Just as she likes , of course . 
The tale will be out next week . 
Will you call for the money , or shall I send it ? asked Mr. Dashwood , who felt a natural desire to know who his new contributor might be . 
As she departed , Mr. Dashwood put up his feet , with the graceful remark , Poor and proud , as usual , but she'll do . 
One thing disturbed her satisfaction , and that was that she did not tell them at home . 
She had a feeling that Father and Mother would not approve , and preferred to have her own way first , and beg pardon afterward . 
It was easy to keep her secret , for no name appeared with her stories . 
Mr. Dashwood had of course found it out very soon , but promised to be dumb , and for a wonder kept his word . 
Eager to find material for stories , and bent on making them original in plot , if not masterly in execution , she searched newspapers for accidents , incidents , and crimes . 
She excited the suspicions of public librarians by asking for works on poisons . 
She studied faces in the street , and characters , good , bad , and indifferent , all about her . 
She thought she was prospering finely , but unconsciously she was beginning to desecrate some of the womanliest attributes of a woman's character . 
She was beginning to feel rather than see this , for much describing of other people's passions and feelings set her to studying and speculating about her own . 
a morbid amusement in which healthy young minds do not voluntarily indulge . 
Wrongdoing always brings its own punishment , and when Jo most needed hers , she got it . 
Mr. Bhaer , in one of their conversations , had advised her to study simple , true , and lovely characters , wherever she found them , as good training for a writer . 
Why everybody liked him was what puzzled Jo , at first . 
Jo often watched him , trying to discover the charm , and at last decided that it was benevolence which worked the miracle . 
If he had any sorrow , it sat with its head under its wing' , and he turned only his sunny side to the world . 
There were lines upon his forehead , but Time seemed to have touched him gently , remembering how kind he was to others . 
His very clothes seemed to partake of the hospitable nature of the wearer . 
They looked as if they were at ease , and liked to make him comfortable . 
His capacious waistcoat was sugges tive of a large heart underneath . 
His rusty coat had a social air , and the baggy pockets plainly proved that little hands often went in empty and came out full . 
His very boots were benevolent , and his collars never stiff and raspy like other people's . 
Jo valued goodness highly , but she also possessed a most feminine respect for intellect , and a little discovery which she made about the Professor added much to her regard for him . 
He never spoke of himself , and in a conversation with Miss Norton divulged the pleasing fact . 
From her Jo learned it , and liked it all the better because Mr. Bhaer had never told it . 
Another and a better gift than intellect was shown her in a most unexpected manner . 
Miss Norton had the entree into most society , which Jo would have had no chance of seeing but for her . 
The solitary woman felt an interest in the ambitious girl , and kindly conferred many favors of this sort both on Jo and the Professor . 
She took them with her one night to a select symposium , held in honor of several celebrities . 
Jo went prepared to bow down and adore the mighty ones whom she had worshiped with youthful enthusiasm afar off . 
Turning as from a fallen idol , she made other discoveries which rapidly dispelled her romantic illusions . 
Before the evening was half over , Jo felt so completely disillusioned , that she sat down in a corner to recover herself . 
She looked round to see how the Professor liked it , and found him looking at her with the grimest expression she had ever seen him wear . 
Now , Mr. Bhaer was a diffident man and slow to offer his own opinions , not because they were unsettled , but too sincere and earnest to be lightly spoken . 
He had a hard fight , for the wise men argued well , but he didn't know when he was beaten and stood to his colors like a man . 
Somehow , as he talked , the world got right again to Jo . 
The old beliefs , that had lasted so long , seemed better than the new . 
God was not a blind force , and immortality was not a pretty fable , but a blessed fact . 
She valued his esteem , she coveted his respect , she wanted to be worthy of his friendship , and just when the wish was sincerest , she came near to losing everything . 
After the reading came the lesson , which was a lively one , for Jo was in a gay mood that night , and the cocked hat kept her eyes dancing with merriment . 
The Professor didn't know what to make of her , and stopped at last to ask with an air of mild surprise that was irresistible . 
Ah ! I see him now , it is that imp Tina who makes me a fool with my cap . 
Well , it is nothing , but see you , if this lesson goes not well , you too shall wear him . 
They are not for children to see , nor young people to read . 
It is not well , and I haf no patience with those who make this harm . 
Jo glanced at the sheet and saw a pleasing illustration composed of a lunatic , a corpse , a villian , and a viper . 
She had betrayed herself , however , by a look and a blush , for though an absent man , the Professor saw a good deal more than people fancied . 
Now it occurred to him that she was doing what she was ashamed to own , and it troubled him . 
He did not say to himself , It is none of my business . 
I've no right to say anything , as many people would have done . 
Yes , you are right to put it from you . 
I do not think that good young girls should see such things . 
They are made pleasant to some , but I would more rather give my boys gunpowder to play with than this bad trash . 
All may not be bad , only silly , you know , and if there is a demand for it , I don't see any harm in supplying it . 
Many very respectable people make an honest living out of what are called sensation stories , said Jo , scratching gathers so energetically that a row of little slits followed her pin . 
There is a demand for whisky , but I think you and I do not care to sell it . 
If the respectable people knew what harm they did , they would not feel that the living was honest . 
They haf no right to put poison in the sugarplum , and let the small ones eat it . 
No , they should think a little , and sweep mud in the street before they do this thing . 
Mr. Bhaer spoke warmly , and walked to the fire , crumpling the paper in his hands . 
Jo sat still , looking as if the fire had come to her , for her cheeks burned long after the cocked hat had turned to smoke and gone harmlessly up the chimney . 
I should like much to send all the rest after him , muttered the Professor , coming back with a relieved air . 
Jo thought what a blaze her pile of papers upstairs would make , and her hard earned money lay rather heavily on her conscience at that minute . 
As soon as she went to her room , she got out her papers , and carefully reread every one of her stories . 
Being a little shortsighted , Mr. Bhaer sometimes used eye glasses , and Jo had tried them once , smiling to see how they magnified the fine print of her book . 
Now she seemed to have on the Professor's mental or moral spectacles also , for the faults of these poor stories glared at her dreadfully and filled her with dismay . 
They are trash , and will soon be worse trash if I go on , for each is more sensational than the last . 
I've gone blindly on , hurting myself and other people , for the sake of money . 
Yes , that's the best place for such inflammable nonsense . 
If I didn't care about doing right , and didn't feel uncomfortable when doing wrong , I should get on capitally . 
I can't help wishing sometimes , that Mother and Father hadn't been so particular about such things . 
Ah , Jo , instead of wishing that , thank God that Father and Mother were particular' . 
She sent this didactic gem to several markets , but it found no purchaser , and she was inclined to agree with Mr. Dashwood that morals didn't sell . 
Then she tried a child's story , which she could easily have disposed of if she had not been mercenary enough to demand filthy lucre for it . 
So nothing came of these trials , land Jo corked up her inkstand , and said in a fit of very wholesome humility . 
I'll wait until I do before I try again , and meantime , sweep mud in the street' if I can't do better , that's honest , at least . 
Which decision proved that her second tumble down the beanstalk had done her some good . 
It was a pleasant winter and a long one , for she did not leave Mrs. Kirke till June . 
Everyone seemed sorry when the time came . 
The children were inconsolable , and Mr. Bhaer's hair stuck straight up all over his head , for he always rumpled it wildly when disturbed in mind . 
Do you ? Shall I come ? he asked , looking down at her with an eager expression which she did not see . 
Yes , come next month . 
Laurie graduates then , and you'd enjoy commencement as something new . 
That is your best friend , of whom you speak ? he said in an altered tone . 
Yes , my boy Teddy . 
I'm very proud of him and should like you to see him . 
Jo looked up then , quite unconscious of anything but her own pleasure in the prospect of showing them to one another . 
If it had not been for Tina on her knee . 
She didn't know what would have become of her . 
Fortunately the child was moved to hug her , so she managed to hide her face an instant , hoping the Professor did not see it . 
But he did , and his own changed again from that momentary anxiety to its usual expression , as he said cordially . 
I fear I shall not make the time for that , but I wish the friend much success , and you all happiness . 
Gott bless you ! And with that , he shook hands warmly , shouldered Tina , and went away . 
But after the boys were abed , he sat long before his fire with the tired look on his face and the heimweh' , or homesickness , lying heavy at his heart . 
It is not for me , I must not hope it now , he said to himself , with a sigh that was almost a groan . 
I've got to stay for this confounded supper , but I shall be home early tomorrow . 
You'll come and meet me as usual , girls ? Laurie said , as he put the sisters into the carriage after the joys of the day were over . 
He said girls' , but he meant Jo , for she was the only one who kept up the old custom . 
She had not the heart to refuse her splendid , successful boy anything , and answered warmly . 
I'll come , Teddy , rain or shine , and march before you , playing Hail the conquering hero comes' on a jew's harp . 
Where's the jew's harp , Jo ? cried Laurie , as soon as he was within speaking distance . 
And Jo took heart again , for that salutation could not be called loverlike . 
Then he walked more slowly , suddenly lost his fine flow of language , and now and then a dreadful pause occurred . 
To rescue the conversation from one of the wells of silence into which it kept falling , Jo said hastily , Now you must have a good long holiday ! I intend to . 
Please don't ! I will , and you must hear me . 
It's no use , Jo , we've got to have it out , and the sooner the better for both of us , he answered , getting flushed and excited all at once . 
Say what you like then . 
I'll listen , said Jo , with a desperate sort of patience . 
I've loved you ever since I've known you , Jo , couldn't help it , you've been so good to me . 
I've tried to show it , but you wouldn't let me . 
Now I'm going to make you hear , and give me an answer , for I can't go on so any longer . 
I wanted to save you this . 
began Jo , finding it a great deal harder than she expected . 
I know you did , but the girls are so queer you never know what they mean . 
They say no when they mean yes , and drive a man out of his wits just for the fun of it , returned Laurie , entrenching himself behind an undeniable fact . 
I never wanted to make you care for me so , and I went away to keep you from it if I could . 
It was like you , but it was no use . 
Here there was a choke that couldn't be controlled , so he decapitated buttercups while he cleared his confounded throat' . 
I've tried , but I can't change the feeling , and it would be a lie to say I do when I don't . 
Really , truly , Jo ? He stopped short , and caught both her hands as he put his question with a look that she did not soon forget . 
Really , truly , dear . 
So he just laid his head down on the mossy post , and stood so still that Jo was frightened . 
They do sometimes , said a muffled voice from the post . 
I don't believe it's the right sort of love , and I'd rather not try it , was the decided answer . 
There was a long pause , while a blackbird sung blithely on the willow by the river , and the tall grass rustled in the wind . 
Presently Jo said very soberly , as she sat down on the step of the stile , Laurie , I want to tell you something . 
That you love that old man . 
What old man ? demanded Jo , thinking he must mean his grandfather . 
That devilish Professor you were always writing about . 
If you say you love him , I know I shall do something desperate . 
And he looked as if he would keep his word , as he clenched his hands with a wrathful spark in his eyes . 
Pray , don't fly into a passion . 
I want to be kind , but I know I shall get angry if you abuse my Professor . 
I haven't the least idea of loving him or anybody else . 
But you will after a while , and then what will become of me ? You'll love someone else too , like a sensible boy , and forget all this trouble . 
I can't love anyone else , and I'll never forget you , Jo , Never ! Never ! with a stamp to emphasize his passionate words . 
What shall I do with him ? sighed Jo , finding that emotions were more unmanagable than she expected . 
You haven't heard what I wanted to tell you . 
Jo paused a little over the last word , but Laurie uttered it with a rapturous expression . 
Marry no we shouldn't ! If you loved me , Jo , I should be a perfect saint , for you could make me anything you like . 
I've tried and failed , and I won't risk our happiness by such a serious experiment . 
We don't agree and we never shall , so we'll be good friends all our lives , but we won't go and do anything rash . 
Yes , we will if we get the chance , muttered Laurie rebelliously . 
Now do be reasonable , and take a sensible view of the case , implored Jo , almost at her wit's end . 
I don't want to take what you call a sensible view' . 
It won't help me , and it only makes it harder . 
I don't believe you've got any heart . 
Grandpa has set his heart upon it , your people like it , and I can't get on without you . 
Say you will , and let's be happy . 
It was very hard to do , but she did it , knowing that delay was both useless and cruel . 
I can't say yes' truly , so I won't say it at all . 
You'll see that I'm right , by and by , and thank me for it . 
I'll be hanged if I do ! And Laurie bounced up off the grass , burning with indignation at the very idea . 
Yes , you will ! persisted Jo . 
You'll get over this after a while , and find some lovely accomplished girl , who will adore you , and make a fine mistress for your fine house . 
Nothing more , except that I don't believe I shall ever marry . 
I'm happy as I am , and love my liberty too well to be in a hurry to give it up for any mortal man . 
I know better ! broke in Laurie . 
You think so now , but there'll come a time when you will care for somebody , and you'll love him tremendously , and live and die for him . 
I know you will , it's your way , and I shall have to stand by and see it . 
And the despairing lover cast his hat upon the ground with a gesture that would have seemed comical , if his face had not been so tragic . 
I've done my best , but you won't be reasonable , and it's selfish of you to keep teasing for what I can't give . 
Oh , where are you going ? she cried , for his face frightened her . 
To the devil ! was the consoling answer . 
Jo drew a long breath and unclasped her hands as she watched the poor fellow trying to outstrip the trouble which he carried in his heart . 
That will do him good , and he'll come home in such a tender , penitent state of mind , that I shan't dare to see him . 
she said , adding , as she went slowly home , feeling as if she had murdered some innocent thing , and buried it under the leaves . 
Now I must go and prepare Mr. Laurence to be very kind to my poor boy . 
I wish he'd love Beth , perhaps he may in time , but I begin to think I was mistaken about her . 
Oh dear ! How can girls like to have lovers and refuse them ? I think it's dreadful . 
When Laurie came home , dead tired but quite composed , his grandfather met him as if he knew nothing , and kept up the delusion very successfully for an hour or two . 
He bore it as long as he could , then went to his piano and began to play . 
That's very fine , I dare say , but it's sad enough to make one cry . 
Give us something gayer , lad , said Mr. Laurence , whose kind old heart was full of sympathy , which he longed to show but knew not how . 
I can't stand this , muttered the old gentleman . 
No answer for an instant , then Laurie asked sharply , Who told you ? Jo herself . 
I want to say one thing , and then there shall be an end of it , returned Mr. Laurence with unusual mildness . 
You won't care to stay at home now , perhaps ? I don't intend to run away from a girl . 
Jo can't prevent my seeing her , and I shall stay and do it as long as I like , interrupted Laurie in a defiant tone . 
Not if you are the gentleman I think you . 
I'm disappointed , but the girl can't help it , and the only thing left for you to do is to go away for a time . 
Where will you go ? Anywhere . 
I don't care what becomes of me . 
And Laurie got up with a reckless laugh that grated on his grandfather's ear . 
Take it like a man , and don't do anything rash , for God's sake . 
Why not go abroad , as you planned , and forget it ? I can't . 
But you've been wild to go , and I promised you should when you got through college . 
Ah , but I didn't mean to go alone ! And Laurie walked fast through the room with an expression which it was well his grandfather did not see . 
I don't ask you to go alone . 
There's someone ready and glad to go with you , anywhere in the world . 
Who , Sir ? stopping to listen . 
Now , my dear boy , just sit quietly down and hear my plan . 
Well , sir , what is it ? And Laurie sat down , without a sign of interest in face or voice . 
There is business in London that needs looking after . 
I meant you should attend to it , but I can do it better myself , and things here will get on very well with Brooke to manage them . 
My partners do almost everything , I'm merely holding on until you take my place , and can be off at any time . 
But you hate traveling , Sir . 
I can't ask it of you at your age , began Laurie , who was grateful for the sacrifice , but much preferred to go alone , if he went at all . 
So , stifling a natural regret at the thought of the home comforts he would leave behind him , he said stoutly , Bless your soul , I'm not superannuated yet . 
I quite enjoy the idea . 
It will do me good , and my old bones won't suffer , for traveling nowadays is almost as easy as sitting in a chair . 
I go because I think you'd feel happier than if I was left behind . 
I don't intend to gad about with you , but leave you free to go where you like , while I amuse myself in my own way . 
I've friends in London and Paris , and should like to visit them . 
Meantime you can go to Italy , Germany , Switzerland , where you will , and enjoy pictures , music , scenery , and adventures to your heart's content . 
He sighed , and then said , in a spiritless tone , Just as you like , Sir . 
It doesn't matter where I go or what I do . 
It does to me , remember that , my lad . 
I give you entire liberty , but I trust you to make an honest use of it . 
Promise me that , Laurie . 
Anything you like , Sir . 
Good , thought the old gentleman . 
You don't care now , but there'll come a time when that promise will keep you out of mischief , or I'm much mistaken . 
Being an energetic individual , Mr. Laurence struck while the iron was hot , and before the blighted being recovered spirit enough to rebel , they were off . 
During the time necessary for preparation , Laurie bore himself as young gentleman usually do in such cases . 
Unlike some sufferers , he never spoke of his unrequited passion , and would allow no one , not even Mrs. March , to attempt consolation or offer sympathy . 
Of course , he smiled darkly at their delusion , but passed it by with the sad superiority of one who knew that his fidelity like his love was unalterable . 
When the parting came he affected high spirits , to conceal certain inconvenient emotions which seemed inclined to assert themselves . 
Then feeling that he was going very fast , he hastily embraced them all round , not forgetting the afflicted Hannah , and ran downstairs as if for his life . 
Jo followed a minute after to wave her hand to him if he looked round . 
Oh , Jo , can't you ? Teddy , dear , I wish I could ! That was all , except a little pause . 
Then Laurie straightened himself up , said , It's all right , never mind , and went away without another word . 
CHAPTER THIRTY SIX When Jo came home that spring , she had been struck with the change in Beth . 
But when Laurie was gone , and peace prevailed again , the vague anxiety returned and haunted her . 
It was not a fashionable place , but even among the pleasant people there , the girls made few friends , preferring to live for one another . 
Beth was too shy to enjoy society , and Jo too wrapped up in her to care for anyone else . 
They did feel it , yet neither spoke of it , for often between ourselves and those nearest and dearest to us there exists a reserve which it is very hard to overcome . 
One day Beth told her . 
It came to her then more bitterly than ever that Beth was slowly drifting away form her , and her arms instinctively tightened their hold upon the dearest treasure she possessed . 
I've tried to tell you , but I couldn't . 
There was no answer except her sister's cheek against her own , not even tears , for when most deeply moved , Jo did not cry . 
She was the weaker then , land Beth tried to comfort and sustain her , with her arms about her and the soothing words she whispered in her ear . 
I've known it for a good while , dear , and now I'm used to it , it isn't hard to think of or to bear . 
Try to see it so and don't be troubled about me , because it's best , indeed it is . 
Yes , I gave up hoping then , but I didn't like to own it . 
I tried to think it was a sick fancy , and would not let it trouble anyone . 
Perhaps it was wrong , but I tried to do right . 
I wasn't sure , no one said anything , and I hoped I was mistaken . 
It would have been selfish to frighten you all when Marmee was so anxious about Meg , and Amy away , and you so happy with Laurie at least I thought so then . 
And I thought you loved him , Beth , and I went away because I couldn't , cried Jo , glad to say all the truth . 
Why , Jo , how could I , when he was so fond of you ? asked Beth , as innocently as a child . 
I do love him dearly . 
He is so good to me , how can I help It ? But he could never be anything to me but my brother . 
I hope he truly will be , sometime . 
Not through me , said Jo decidedly . 
Amy is left for him , and they would suit excellently , but I have no heart for such things , now . 
I don't care what becomes of anybody but you , Beth . 
I want to , oh , so much ! I try , but every day I lose a little , and feel more sure that I shall never gain it back . 
It's like the tide , Jo , when it turns , it goes slowly , but it can't be stopped . 
It shall be stopped , your tide must not turn so soon , nineteen is too young , Beth . 
I can't let you go . 
I'll work and pray and fight against it . 
I'll keep you in spite of everything . 
There must be ways , it can't be too late . 
God won't be so cruel as to take you from me , cried poor Jo rebelliously , for her spirit was far less piously submissive than Beth's . 
Simple , sincere people seldom speak much of their piety . 
It shows itself in acts rather than in words , and has more influence than homilies or protestations . 
Beth could not reason upon or explain the faith that gave her courage and patience to give up life , and cheerfully wait for death . 
She could not say , I'm glad to go , for life was very sweet for her . 
She could only sob out , I try to be willing , while she held fast to Jo , as the first bitter wave of this great sorrow broke over them together . 
I've heard that the people who love best are often blindest to such things . 
If they don't see it , you will tell them for me . 
I don't want any secrets , and it's kinder to prepare them . 
Meg has John and the babies to comfort her , but you must stand by Father and Mother , won't you Jo ? If I can . 
But , Beth , I don't give up yet . 
I'm going to believe that it is a sick fancy , and not let you think it's true . 
said Jo , trying to speak cheerfully . 
I only mean to say that I have a feeling that it never was intended I should live long . 
I'm not like the rest of you . 
I never made any plans about what I'd do when I grew up . 
I never thought of being married , as you all did . 
I couldn't seem to imagine myself anything but stupid little Beth , trotting about at home , of no use anywhere but there . 
I never wanted to go away , and the hard part now is the leaving you all . 
I'm not afraid , but it seems as if I should be homesick for you even in heaven . 
Jo could not speak , and for several minutes there was no sound but the sigh of the wind and the lapping of the tide . 
A white winged gull flew by , with the flash of sunshine on its silvery breast . 
Beth watched it till it vanished , and her eyes were full of sadness . 
A little gray coated sand bird came tripping over the beach peeping' softly to itself , as if enjoying the sun and sea . 
It came quite close to Beth , and looked at her with a friendly eye and sat upon a warm stone , dressing its wet feathers , quite at home . 
Beth smiled and felt comforted , for the tiny thing seemed to offer its small friendship and remind her that a pleasant world was still to be enjoyed . 
Dear little bird ! See , Jo , how tame it is . 
I like peeps better than the gulls . 
They are not so wild and handsome , but they seem happy , confiding little things . 
You are the gull , Jo , strong and wild , fond of the storm and the wind , flying far out to sea , and happy all alone . 
Meg is the turtledove , and Amy is like the lark she write about , trying to get up among the clouds , but always dropping down into its nest again . 
Dear little girl ! She's so ambitious , but her heart is good and tender , and no matter how high she flies , she never will forget home . 
I hope I shall see her again , but she seems so far away . 
She is coming in the spring , and I mean that you shall be all ready to see and enjoy her . 
I'm going to have you well and rosy by that time . 
Jo , dear , don't hope any more . 
It won't do any good . 
We won't be miserable , but enjoy being together while we wait . 
We'll have happy times , for I don't suffer much , and I think the tide will go out easily , if you help me . 
Jo leaned down to kiss the tranquil face , and with that silent kiss , she dedicated herself soul and body to Beth . 
There was no need of any words when they got home , for Father and Mother saw plainly now what they had prayed to be saved from seeing . 
Many nations are represented , many languages spoken , many costumes worn , and on a sunny day the spectacle is as gay and brilliant as a carnival . 
Along this walk , on Christmas Day , a tall young man walked slowly , with his hands behind him , and a somewhat absent expression of countenance . 
There were plenty of pretty faces to admire , but the young man took little notice of them , except to glance now and then at some blonde girl in blue . 
The quick trot of ponies feet made him look up , as one of the little carriages , containing a single young lady , came rapidly down the street . 
The lady was young , blonde , and dressed in blue . 
He stared a minute , then his whole face woke up , and , waving his hat like a boy , he hurried forward to meet her . 
I was detained by the way , but I promised to spend Christmas with you , and here I am . 
How is your grandfather ? When did you come ? Where are you staying ? Very well last night at the Chauvain . 
I called at your hotel , but you were out . 
I have so much to say , I don't know where to begin ! Get in and we can talk at our ease . 
I was going for a drive and longing for company . 
Flo's saving up for tonight . 
What happens then , a ball ? A Christmas party at out hotel . 
There are many Americans there , and they give it in honor of the day . 
You'll go with us , of course ? Aunt will be charmed . 
I'm going to the bankers first for letters , and then to Castle Hill . 
The view is so lovely , and I like to feed the peacocks . 
Have you ever been there ? Often , years ago , but I don't mind having a look at it . 
Now tell me all about yourself . 
The last I heard of you , your grandfather wrote that he expected you from Berlin . 
Yes , I spent a month there and then joined him in Paris , where he has settled for the winter . 
He has friends there and finds plenty to amuse him , so I go and come , and we got on capitally . 
That's a sociable arrangement , said Amy , missing something in Laurie's manner , though she couldn't tell what . 
Why , you see , he hates to travel , and I hate to keep still , so we each suit ourselves , and there is no trouble . 
I am often with him , and he enjoys my adventures , while I like to feel that someone is glad to see me when I get back from my wanderings . 
Dirty old hole , isn't it ? he added , with a look of disgust as they drove along the boulevard to the Place Napoleon in the old city . 
The dirt is picturesque , so I don't mind . 
The river and the hills are delicious , and these glimpses of the narrow cross streets are my delight . 
Now we shall have to wait for that procession to pass . 
It's going to the Church of St . 
Que pensez vous ? she said , airing her French , which had improved in quantity , if not in quality , since she came abroad . 
That mademoiselle has made good use of her time , and the result is charming , replied Laurie , bowing with his hand on his heart and an admiring look . 
She didn't like the new tone , for though not blase , it sounded indifferent in spite of the look . 
Beth is very poorly , Mother says . 
I often think I ought to go home , but they all say stay' . 
So I do , for I shall never have another chance like this , said Amy , looking sober over one page . 
I think you are right , there . 
You could do nothing at home , and it is a great comfort to them to know that you are well and happy , and enjoying so much , my dear . 
Laurie smiled , took it , put it in his vest pocket to keep it from blowing away' , and listened with interest to the lively letter Amy read him . 
It's not much changed , he answered without enthusiasm . 
What Jo would give for a sight of that famous speck ! said Amy , feeling in good spirits and anxious to see him so also . 
Yes , was all he said , but he turned and strained his eyes to see the island which a greater usurper than even Napoleon now made interesting in his sight . 
So after idling away an hour , they drove home again , and having paid his respects to Mrs. Carrol , Laurie left them , promising to return in the evening . 
It must be recorded of Amy that she deliberately prinked that night . 
Time and absence had done its work on both the young people . 
Amy knew her good points , and made the most of them with the taste and skill which is a fortune to a poor and pretty woman . 
It must be confessed that the artist sometimes got possession of the woman , and indulged in antique coiffures , statuesque attitudes , and classic draperies . 
Her hair she had the sense to let alone , after gathering up the thick waves and curls into a Hebe like knot at the back of her head . 
Having no ornaments fine enough for this important occasion , Amy looped her fleecy skirts with rosy clusters of azalea , and framed the white shoulders in delicate green vines . 
Remembering the painted boots , she surveyed her white satin slippers with girlish satisfaction , and chassed down the room , admiring her aristocratic feet all by herself . 
My new fan just matches my flowers , my gloves fit to a charm , and the real lace on Aunt's mouchoir gives an air to my whole dress . 
If I only had a classical nose and mouth I should be perfectly happy , she said , surveying herself with a critical eye and a candle in each hand . 
In spite of this affliction , she looked unusually gay and graceful as she glided away . 
She seldom ran it did not suit her style , she thought , for being tall , the stately and Junoesque was more appropriate than the sportive or piquante . 
Good evening , Diana ! said Laurie , with the look of satisfaction she liked to see in his eyes when they rested on her . 
How kind you are ! she exclaimed gratefully . 
If I'd known you were coming I'd have had something ready for you today , though not as pretty as this , I'm afraid . 
It isn't what it should be , but you have improved it , he added , as she snapped the silver bracelet on her wrist . 
I thought you liked that sort of thing . 
Not from you , it doesn't sound natural , and I like your old bluntness better . 
The company assembled in the long salle a manger that evening was such as one sees nowhere but on the Continent . 
The hospitable Americans had invited every acquaintance they had in Nice , and having no prejudice against titles , secured a few to add luster to their Christmas ball . 
A Russian prince condescended to sit in a corner for an hour and talk with a massive lady , dressed like Hamlet's mother in black velvet with a pearl bridle under her chin . 
Baron Rothschild's private secretary , a largenosed Jew in tight boots , affably beamed upon the world , as if his master's name crowned him with a golden halo . 
Any young girl can imagine Amy's state of mind when she took the stage' that night , leaning on Laurie's arm . 
Therefore the shock she received can better be imagined than described , when he said in a perfectly tranquil tone , Do you care to dance ? One usually does at a ball . 
Her amazed look and quick answer caused Laurie to repair his error as fast as possible . 
I meant the first dance . 
May I have the honor ? I can give you one if I put off the Count . 
Nice little boy , but rather a short Pole to support . 
A daughter of the gods , Devinely tall , and most devinely fair , was all the satisfaction she got , however . 
She showed him her ball book with demure satisfaction when he strolled instead of rushed up to claim her for the next , a glorious polka redowa . 
But his polite regrets didn't impose upon her , and when she galloped away with the Count , she saw Laurie sit down by her aunt with an actual expression of relief . 
Her anger had a good effect , however , for she hid it under a smiling face , and seemed unusually blithe and brilliant . 
Laurie's eyes followed her with pleasure , for she neither romped nor sauntered , but danced with spirit and grace , making the delightsome pastime what it should be . 
It was a lively scene , for soon the spirit of the social season took possession of everyone , and Christmas merriment made all faces shine , hearts happy , and heels light . 
The musicians fiddled , tooted , and banged as if they enjoyed it , everybody danced who could , and those who couldn't admired their neighbors with uncommon warmth . 
The air was dark with Davises , and many Jones gamboled like a flock of young giraffes . 
The golden secretary darted through the room like a meteor with a dashing frenchwoman who carped the floor with her pink satin train . 
The serene Teuton found the supper table and was happy , eating steadily through the bill of fare , and dismayed the garcons by the ravages he committed . 
But the Emperor's friend covered himself with glory , for he danced everything , whether he knew it or not , and introduced impromptu pirouettes when the figures bewildered him . 
The boyish abandon of that stout man was charming to behold , for though he carried weight' , he danced like an India rubber ball . 
My rouge won't come off . 
And Amy rubbed her brilliant cheek , and showed him her white glove with a sober simplicity that made him laugh outright . 
What do you call this stuff ? he asked , touching a fold of her dress that had blown over his knee . 
It's very pretty new thing , isn't it ? It's as old as the hills . 
None of that , it is forbidden . 
I'd rather take coffee than compliments just now . 
No , don't lounge , it makes me nervous . 
Where did you learn all this sort of thing ? he asked with a quizzical look . 
Amy was gratified , but of course didn't show it , and demurely answered , Foreign life polishes one in spite of one's self . 
CHAPTER THIRTY EIGHT In France the young girls have a dull time of it till they are married , when Vive la liberte ! becomes their motto . 
As she was a womanly little woman , the maternal instinct was very strong , and she was entirely absorbed in her children , to the utter exclusion of everything and everybody else . 
Day and night she brooded over them with tireless devotion and anxiety , leaving John to the tender mercies of the help , for an Irish lady now presided over the kitchen department . 
But three months passed , and there was no return of repose . 
If he proposed a little amusement at home , No , it would disturb the babies . 
His meals were interrupted by the frequent flight of the presiding genius , who deserted him , half helped , if a muffled chirp sounded from the nest above . 
He bore it very patiently for six months , and when no signs of amendment appeared , he did what other paternal exiles do tried to get a little comfort elsewhere . 
Mrs. Scott was a lively , pretty girl , with nothing to do but be agreeable , and she performed her mission most successfully . 
The parlor was always bright and attractive , the chessboard ready , the piano in tune , plenty of gay gossip , and a nice little supper set forth in tempting style . 
John would have preferred his own fireside if it had not been so lonely , but as it was he gratefully took the next best thing and enjoyed his neighbor's society . 
She was nervous and worn out with watching and worry , and in that unreasonable frame of mind which the best of mothers occasionally experience when domestic cares oppress them . 
Yes , she would say , looking in the glass , I'm getting old and ugly . 
John doesn't find me interesting any longer , so he leaves his faded wife and goes to see his pretty neighbor , who has no incumbrances . 
But the pain increased as politics absorbed John , who was always running over to discuss interesting points with Scott , quite unconscious that Meg missed him . 
Goes on how , my dear ? asked her mother anxiously . 
He's away all day , and at night when I want to see him , he is continually going over to the Scotts' . 
It isn't fair that I should have the hardest work , and never any amusement . 
Men are very selfish , even the best of them . 
Don't blame John till you see where you are wrong yourself . 
But it can't be right for him to neglect me . 
I think you could , dear , and I think you ought . 
I often feel as if I needed teaching more than ever since these babies look to me for everything . 
You have only made the mistake that most young wives make forgotten your duty to your husband in your love for your children . 
I've seen it for some weeks , but have not spoken , feeling sure it would come right in time . 
If I ask him to stay , he'll think I'm jealous , and I wouldn't insult him by such an idea . 
He doesn't see that I want him , and I don't know how to tell him without words . 
Make it so pleasant he won't want to go away . 
My dear , he's longing for his little home , but it isn't home without you , and you are always in the nursery . 
Oughtn't I to be there ? Not all the time , too much confinement makes you nervous , and then you are unfitted for everything . 
Besides , you owe something to John as well as to the babies . 
Don't neglect husband for children , don't shut him out of the nursery , but teach him how to help in it . 
His place is there as well as yours , and the children need him . 
Let him feel that he has a part to do , and he will do it gladly and faithfully , and it will be better for you all . 
You really think so , Mother ? I know it , Meg , for I've tried it , and I seldom give advice unless I've proved its practicability . 
When you and Jo were little , I went on just as you are , feeling as if I didn't do my duty unless I devoted myself wholly to you . 
Poor Father took to his books , after I had refused all offers of help , and left me to try my experiment alone . 
I struggled along as well as I could , but Jo was too much for me . 
I nearly spoiled her by indulgence . 
You were poorly , and I worried about you till I fell sick myself . 
Then Father came to the rescue , quietly managed everything , and made himself so helpful that I saw my mistake , and never have been able to got on without him since . 
That is the secret of our home happiness . 
He does not let business wean him from the little cares and duties that affect us all , and I try not to let domestic worries destroy my interest in his pursuits . 
Each do our part alone in many things , but at home we work together , always . 
It is so , Mother , and my great wish is to be to my husband and children what you have been to yours . 
Show me how , I'll do anything you say . 
You were always my docile daughter . 
Then I'd do what I have often proposed , let Hannah come and help you . 
She is a capital nurse , and you may trust the precious babies to her while you do more housework . 
You need the exercise , Hannah would enjoy the rest , and John would find his wife again . 
Go out more , keep cheerful as well as busy , for you are the sunshine maker of the family , and if you get dismal there is no fair weather . 
Then I'd try to take an interest in whatever John likes talk with him , let him read to you , exchange ideas , and help each other in that way . 
John is so sensible , I'm afraid he will think I'm stupid if I ask questions about politics and things . 
I don't believe he would . 
Poor John ! I'm afraid I have neglected him sadly , but I thought I was right , and he never said anything . 
He tried not to be selfish , but he has felt rather forlorn , I fancy . 
And no time is so beautiful and precious to parents as the first years of the little lives given to them to train . 
Now , dear , good by . 
Think over Mother's preachment , act upon it if it seems good , and God bless you all . 
Meg did think it over , found it good , and acted upon it , though the first attempt was not made exactly as she planned to have it . 
Of course the children tyrannized over her , and ruled the house as soon as they found out that kicking and squalling brought them whatever they wanted . 
Mamma was an abject slave to their caprices , but Papa was not so easily subjugated , and occasionally afflicted his tender spouse by an attempt at paternal discipline with his obstreperous son . 
Mamma thought the dear too young to be taught to conquer his prejudices , but Papa believed that it never was too soon to learn obedience . 
But unfortunately Demi's most unconquerable prejudice was against going to bed , and that night he decided to go on a rampage . 
Me has tea ! said Demi , preparing to join in the revel . 
No , but I'll save you some little cakies for breakfast , if you'll go bye by like Daisy . 
Will you , lovey ? Iss ! and Demi shut his eyes tight , as if to catch sleep and hurry the desired day . 
He saw it at once and said with pleased surprise , Why , little mother , how gay we are tonight . 
Do you expect company ? Only you , dear . 
No , I'm tired of being dowdy , so I dressed up as a change . 
Ditto , ditto , Mr. Brooke , laughed Meg , looking young and pretty again , as she nodded to him over the teapot . 
Well , it's altogether delightful , and like old times . 
I drink your health , dear . 
Me's tummin ! It's that naughty boy . 
I told him to go to sleep alone , and here he is , downstairs , getting his death a cold pattering over that canvas , said Meg , answering the call . 
No , it isn't morning yet . 
You must go to bed , and not trouble poor Mamma . 
Then you can have the little cake with sugar on it . 
Me loves Parpar , said the artful one , preparing to climb the paternal knee and revel in forbidden joys . 
But John shook his head , and said to Meg . 
If you told him to stay up there , and go to sleep alone , make him do it , or he will never learn to mind you . 
Nor was he disappointed , for that shortsighted woman actually gave him a lump of sugar , tucked him into his bed , and forbade any more promenades till morning . 
Iss ! said Demi the perjured , blissfully sucking his sugar , and regarding his first attempt as eminently successful . 
Meg returned to her place , and supper was progressing pleasantly , when the little ghost walked again and exposed the maternal delinquencies by boldly demanding , More sudar , Marmar . 
Now this won't do , said John , hardening his heart against the engaging little sinner . 
We shall never know any peace till that child learns togo to bed properly . 
You have made a slave of yourself long enough . 
Give him one lesson , and then there will be an end of it . 
Put him in his bed and leave him , Meg . 
He won't stay there , he never does unless I sit by him . 
Demi , go upstairs , and get into your bed , as Mamma bids you . 
S'ant ! replied the young rebel , helping himself to the coveted cakie' , and beginning to eat the same with calm audacity . 
You must never say that to Papa . 
I shall carry you if you don't go yourself . 
Go 'way , me don't love Parpar . 
And Demi retired to his mother's skirts for protection . 
This vocal exercise usually conquered Meg , but John sat as unmoved as the post which is popularly believed to be deaf . 
This new order of things disgusted him , and he howled dismally for Marmar' , as his angry passions subsided , and recollections of his tender bondwoman returned to the captive autocrat . 
The plaintive wail which succeeded the passionate roar went to Meg's heart , and she ran up to say beseechingly . 
Let me stay with him , he'll be good now , John . 
I've told him he must go to sleep , as you bid him , and he must , if I stay here all night . 
But he'll cry himself sick , pleaded Meg , reproaching herself for deserting her boy . 
No , he won't , he's so tired he will soon drop off and then the matter is settled , for he will understand that he has got to mind . 
Don't interfere , I'll manage him . 
He's my child , and I can't have his spirit broken by harshness . 
He's my child , and I won't have his temper spoiled by indulgence . 
Go down , my dear , and leave the boy to me . 
When John spoke in that masterful tone , Meg always obeyed , and never regretted her docility . 
Please let me kiss him once , John ? Certainly . 
Demi , say good night to Mamma , and let her go and rest , for she is very tired with taking care of you all day . 
Poor little man , he's worn out with sleep and crying . 
I'll cover him up , and then go and set Meg's heart at rest . 
thought John , creeping to the bedside , hoping to find his rebellious heir asleep . 
He does know how to manage them , and will be a great help , for Demi is getting too much for me . 
Is it what you call a breakfast cap ? My dear man , it's a bonnet ! My very best go to concert and theater bonnet . 
I beg your pardon , it was so small , I naturally mistook it for one of the flyaway things you sometimes wear . 
How do you keep it on ? These bits of lace are fastened under the chin with a rosebud , so . 
And Meg illustrated by putting on the bonnet and regarding him with an air of calm satisfaction that was irresistible . 
It's a love of a bonnet , but I prefer the face inside , for it looks young and happy again . 
And John kissed the smiling face , to the great detriment of the rosebud under the chin . 
I'm glad you like it , for I want you to take me to one of the new concerts some night . 
I really need some music to put me in tune . 
Will you , please ? Of course I will , with all my heart , or anywhere else you like . 
You have been shut up so long , it will do you no end of good , and I shall enjoy it , of all things . 
You don't object , I hope ? Never mind what John said , or what a very narrow escape the little bonnet had from utter ruin . 
All that we have any business to know is that John did not appear to object , judging from the changes which gradually took place in the house and its inmates . 
It was not all Paradise by any means , but everyone was better for the division of labor system . 
Home grew homelike again , and John had no wish to leave it , unless he took Meg with him . 
The Scotts came to the Brookes' now , and everyone found the little house a cheerful place , full of happiness , content , and family love . 
Even Sallie Moffatt liked to go there . 
CHAPTER THIRTY NINE Laurie went to Nice intending to stay a week , and remained a month . 
He was tired of wandering about alone , and Amy's familiar presence seemed to give a homelike charm to the foreign scenes in which she bore a part . 
But , while apparently amusing themselves in the most careless fashion , they were half consciously making discoveries and forming opinions about each other . 
Amy rose daily in the estimation of her friend , but he sank in hers , and each felt the truth before a word was spoken . 
All the rest have gone to Monaco for the day . 
I preferred to stay at home and write letters . 
Well , yes , but isn't it rather warm for such a long walk ? he answered slowly , for the shaded salon looked inviting after the glare without . 
Then I'll go with pleasure . 
And he put out his hand for her sketchbook . 
But she tucked it under her arm with a sharp . 
It's no exertion to me , but you don't look equal to it . 
Amy was too well bred , and just now Laurie was too lazy , so in a minute he peeped under her hatbrim with an inquiring air . 
She answered him with a smile , and they went on together in the most amicable manner . 
It was a lovely drive , along winding roads rich in the picturesque scenes that delight beauty loving eyes . 
Here an ancient monastery , whence the solemn chanting of the monks came down to them . 
Brown , soft eyed children ran out from the quaint stone hovels to offer nosegays , or bunches of oranges still on the bough . 
Valrosa well deserved its name , for in that climate of perpetual summer roses blossomed everywhere . 
No , nor felt such thorns , returned Laurie , with his thumb in his mouth , after a vain attempt to capture a solitary scarlet flower that grew just beyond his reach . 
Try lower down , and pick those that have no thorns , said Amy , gathering three of the tiny cream colored ones that starred the wall behind her . 
He had thought of Jo in reaching after the thorny red rose , for vivid flowers became her , and she had often worn ones like that from the greenhouse at home . 
It's good advice , you'd better take it and save your fingers , she said , thinking her speech amused him . 
Thank you , I will , he answered in jest , and a few months later he did it in earnest . 
Laurie , when are you going to your grandfather ? she asked presently , as she settled herself on a rustic seat . 
You have said that a dozen times within the last three weeks . 
I dare say , short answers save trouble . 
He expects you , and you really ought to go . 
Hospitable creature ! I know it . 
Then why don't you do it ? Natural depravity , I suppose . 
Natural indolence , you mean . 
It's really dreadful ! And Amy looked severe . 
And Laurie composed himself for a lounge on the broad ledge of the balustrade . 
Amy shook her head and opened her sketchbook with an air of resignation , but she had made up her mind to lecture that boy' and in a minute she began again . 
What are you doing just now ? Watching lizards . 
I mean what do you intend and wish to do ? Smoke a cigarette , if you'll allow me . 
How provoking you are ! I don't approve of cigars and I will only allow it on condition that you let me put you into my sketch . 
With all the pleasure in life . 
Stay as you are , and go to sleep if you like . 
I intend to work hard , said Amy in her most energetic tone . 
What delightful enthusiasm ! And he leaned against a tall urn with an ir of entire satisfaction . 
What would Jo say if she saw you now ? asked Amy impatiently , hoping to stir him up by the mention of her still more energetic sister's name . 
As usual , Go away , Teddy . 
It was gone before she could study it and the listless expression back again . 
You look like the effigy of a young knight asleep on his tomb , she said , carefully tracing the well cut profile defined against the dark stone . 
Wish I was ! That's a foolish wish , unless you have spoiled your life . 
You are so changed , I sometimes think There Amy stopped , with a half timid , half wistful look , more significant than her unfinished speech . 
That satisfied her and set at rest the doubts that had begun to worry her lately . 
It also touched her , and she showed that it did , by the cordial tone in which she said . 
Laurie obediently threw himself down on the turf , and began to amuse himself by sticking daisies into the ribbons of Amy's hat , that lay there . 
I'm all ready for the secrets . 
And he glanced up with a decided expression of interest in his eyes . 
Haven't one to bless myself with . 
I thought perhaps you'd had some news from home . 
You have heard all that has come lately . 
Don't you hear often ? I fancied Jo would send you volumes . 
I'm roving about so , it's impossible to be regular , you know . 
When do you begin your great work of art , Raphaella ? he asked . 
changing the subject abruptly after another pause , in which he had been wondering if Amy knew his secret and wanted to talk about it . 
Never , she answered , with a despondent but decided air . 
Rome took all the vanity out of me , for after seeing the wonders there , I felt too insignificant to live and gave up all my foolish hopes in despair . 
Why should you , with so much energy and talent ? That's just why , because talent isn't genius , and no amount of energy can make it so . 
I want to be great , or nothing . 
I won't be a common place dauber , so I don't intend to try any more . 
It was a characteristic speech , and sounded daring , but audacity becomes young people , and Amy's ambition had a good foundation . 
Laurie smiled , but he liked the spirit with which she took up a new purpose when a long cherished one died , and spent no time lamenting . 
Good ! And here is where Fred Vaughn comes in , I fancy . 
May I ? I don't promise to answer . 
Your face will , if your tongue won't . 
You aren't woman of the world enough yet to hide your feelings , my dear . 
You are not engaged , I hope ? And Laurie looked very elder brotherly and grave all of a sudden . 
No. But you will be , if he comes back and goes properly down on his knees , won't you ? Very likely . 
Then you are fond of old Fred ? I could be , if I tried . 
A short speech , but the quiet decision with which it was uttered contrasted curiously with the young speaker . 
Laurie felt this instinctively and laid himself down again , with a sense of disappointment which he could not explain . 
His look and silence , as well as a certain inward self disapproval , ruffled Amy , and made her resolve to deliver her lecture without delay . 
I wish you'd do me the favor to rouse yourself a little , she said sharply . 
Do it for me , there's a dear girl . 
I could , if I tried . 
And she looked as if she would like doing it in the most summary style . 
I give you leave , returned Laurie , who enjoyed having someone to tease , after his long abstinence from his favorite pastime . 
You'd be angry in five minutes . 
I'm never angry with you . 
It takes two flints to make a fire . 
You are as cool and soft as snow . 
You don't know what I can do . 
Snow produces a glow and a tingle , if applied rightly . 
Your indifference is half affectation , and a good stirring up would prove it . 
Stir away , it won't hurt me and it may amuse you , as the big man said when his little wife beat him . 
Regard me in the light of a husband or a carpet , and beat till you are tired , if that sort of exercise agrees with you . 
Being decidedly nettled herself , and longing to see him shake off the apathy that so altered him , Amy sharpened both tongue and pencil , and began . 
Flo and I have got a new name for you . 
How do you like it ? She thought it would annoy him , but he only folded his arms under his head , with an imperturbable , That's not bad . 
Do you want to know what I honestly think of you ? Pining to be told . 
Well , I despise you . 
Why , if you please ? Because , with every chance for being good , useful , and happy , you are faulty , lazy , and miserable . 
If you like it , I'll go on . 
Pray do , it's quite interesting . 
I thought you'd find it so . 
Selfish people always like to talk about themselves . 
Am I selfish ? The question slipped out involuntarily and in a tone of surprise , for the one virtue on which he prided himself was generosity . 
Yes , very selfish , continued Amy , in a calm , cool voice , twice as effective just then as an angry one . 
I'll show you how , for I've studied you while we were frolicking , and I'm not at all satisfied with you . 
Here you have been abroad nearly six months , and done nothing but waste time and money and disappoint your friends . 
Isn't a fellow to have any pleasure after a four year grind ? You don't look as if you'd had much . 
At any rate , you are none the better for it , as far as I can see . 
I said when we first met that you had improved . 
Now I take it all back , for I don't think you half so nice as when I left you at home . 
There she stopped , with a look that had both pain and pity in it . 
Saint Laurence on a gridiron , added Laurie , blandly finishing the sentence . 
But the lecture began to take effect , for there was a wide awake sparkle in his eyes now and a half angry , half injured expression replaced the former indifference . 
I supposed you'd take it so . 
Amy spoke bitterly , and turned her back on the exasperating martyr at her feet . 
All in a minute various hints and trifles assumed shape and significance in Amy's mind , and told her what her sister never had confided to her . 
Girls are quick to read such signs and feel their eloquence . 
Amy had fancied that perhaps a love trouble was at the bottom of the alteration , and now she was sure of it . 
Her keen eyes filled , and when she spoke again , it was in a voice that could be beautifully soft and kind when she chose to make it so . 
I know I have no right to talk so to you , Laurie , and if you weren't the sweetest tempered fellow in the world , you'd be very angry with me . 
I think they would , came from under the hat , in a grim tone , quite as touching as a broken one . 
They ought to have told me , and not let me go blundering and scolding , when I should have been more kind and patient than ever . 
I never did like that Miss Randal and now I hate her ! said artful Amy , wishing to be sure of her facts this time . 
Hang Miss Randal ! And Laurie knocked the hat off his face with a look that left no doubt of his sentiments toward that young lady . 
I beg pardon , I thought . 
And there she paused diplomatically . 
I did think so , but as they never said anything about it , and you came away , I supposed I was mistaken . 
And Jo wouldn't be kind to you ? Why , I was sure she loved you dearly . 
She was kind , but not in the right way , and it's lucky for her she didn't love me , if I'm the good for nothing fellow you think me . 
It's her fault though , and you may tell her so . 
The hard , bitter look came back again as he said that , and it troubled Amy , for she did not know what balm to apply . 
I was wrong , I didn't know . 
I'm very sorry I was so cross , but I can't help wishing you'd bear it better , Teddy , dear . 
Don't , that's her name for me ! And Laurie put up his hand with a quick gesture to stop the words spoken in Jo's half kind , half reproachful tone . 
Wait till you've tried it yourself , he added in a low voice , as he pulled up the grass by the handful . 
I'd take it manfully , and be respected if i couldn't be loved , said Amy , with the decision of one who knew nothing about it . 
Now , Laurie flattered himself that he had borne it remarkably well , making no moan , asking no sympathy , and taking his trouble away to live it down alone . 
He felt as if suddenly shaken out of a pensive dream and found it impossible to go to sleep again . 
Presently he sat up and asked slowly , Do you think Jo would despise me as you do ? Yes , if she saw you now . 
Why don't you do something splendid , and make her love you ? I did my best , but it was no use . 
Graduating well , you mean ? That was no more than you ought to have done , for your grandfather's sake . 
It would have been shameful to fail after spending so much time and money , when everyone knew that you could do well . 
I did fail , say what you will , for Jo wouldn't love me , began Laurie , leaning his head on his hand in a despondent attitude . 
No , you didn't , and you'll say so in the end , for it did you good , and proved that you could do something if you tried . 
If you'd only set about another task of some sort , you'd soon be your hearty , happy self again , and forget your trouble . 
You needn't shrug your shoulders , and think , Much she knows about such things' . 
I don't pretend to be wise , but I am observing , and I see a great deal more than you'd imagine . 
I'm interested in other people's experiences and inconsistencies , and though I can't explain , I remember and use them for my own benefit . 
There , I won't lecture any more , for I know you'll wake up and be a man in spite of that hardhearted girl . 
Neither spoke for several minutes . 
Laurie sat turning the little ring on his finger , and Amy put the last touches to the hasty sketch she had been working at while she talked . 
How well you draw ! he said , with a genuine surprise and pleasure at her skill , adding , with a half laugh , Yes , that's me . 
This is as you were . 
And Amy laid another sketch beside the one he held . 
Only a rough sketch of Laurie taming a horse . 
Hat and coat were off , and every line of the active figure , resolute face , and commanding attitude was full of energy and meaning . 
That satisfied her , and without waiting for him to speak , she said , in her sprightly way . 
I found that sketch in my portfolio the other day , touched it up , and kept it to show you . 
You've improved immensely since then , and I congratulate you . 
He tried to resume his former easy , indifferent air , but it was an affectation now , for the rousing had been more effacious than he would confess . 
Amy felt the shade of coldness in his manner , and said to herself . 
Now , I've offended him . 
They laughed and chatted all the way home , and little Baptist , up behind , thought that monsieur and madamoiselle were in charming spirits . 
But both felt ill at ease . 
The friendly frankness was disturbed , the sunshine had a shadow over it , and despite their apparent gaiety , there was a secret discontent in the heart of each . 
Shall we see you this evening , mon frere ? asked Amy , as they parted at her aunt's door . 
Unfortunately I have an engagement . 
And Laurie bent as if to kiss her hand , in the foreign fashion , which became him better than many men . 
Something in his face made Amy say quickly and warmly . 
No , be yourself with me , Laurie , and part in the good old way . 
I'd rather have a hearty English handshake than all the sentimental salutations in France . 
And with these words , uttered in the tone she liked , Laurie left her , after a handshake almost painful in its heartiness . 
Next morning , instead of the usual call , Amy received a note which made her smile at the beginning and sigh at the end . 
My Dear Mentor , Please make my adieux to your aunt , and exult within yourself , for Lazy Laurence' has gone to his grandpa , like the best of boys . 
A pleasant winter to you , and may the gods grant you a blissful honeymoon at Valrosa ! I think Fred would be benefited by a rouser . 
Tell him so , with my congratulations . 
Yours gratefully , Telemachus Good boy ! I'm glad he's gone , said Amy , with an approving smile . 
The next minute her face fell as she glanced about the empty room , adding , with an involuntary sigh , Yes , I am glad , but how I shall miss him . 
They put away their grief , and each did his or her part toward making that last year a happy one . 
John quietly set apart a little sum , that he might enjoy the pleasure of keeping the invalid supplied with the fruit she loved and longed for . 
Talking wearied her , faces troubled her , pain claimed her for its own , and her tranquil spirit was sorrowfully perturbed by the ills that vexed her feeble flesh . 
Jo never left her for an hour since Beth had said I feel stronger when you are here . 
All day she haunted the room , jealous of any other nurse , and prouder of being chosen then than of any honor her life ever brought her . 
Precious and helpful hours to Jo , for now her heart received the teaching that it needed . 
Seeing this did more for Jo than the wisest sermons , the saintliest hymns , the most fervent prayers that any voice could utter . 
The name caught her eye and the blurred look of the lines made her sure that tears had fallen on it . 
Poor Jo ! She's fast asleep , so I won't wake her to ask leave . 
MY BETH Sitting patient in the shadow Till the blessed light shall come , A serene and saintly presence Sanctifies our troubled home . 
Earthly joys and hopes and sorrows Break like ripples on the strand Of the deep and solemn river Where her willing feet now stand . 
O my sister , passing from me , Out of human care and strife , Leave me , as a gift , those virtues Which have beautified your life . 
Dear , bequeath me that great patience Which has power to sustain A cheerful , uncomplaining spirit In its prison house of pain . 
Give me , for I need it sorely , Of that courage , wise and sweet , Which has made the path of duty Green beneath your willing feet . 
For the touch of grief will render My wild nature more serene , Give to life new aspirations , A new trust in the unseen . 
Henceforth , safe across the river , I shall see forever more A beloved , household spirit Waiting for me on the shore . 
Hope and faith , born of my sorrow , Guardian angels shall become , And the sister gone before me By their hands shall lead me home . 
As she sat with the paper folded between her hands , the charred log fell asunder . 
Jo started up , revived the blaze , and crept to the bedside , hoping Beth slept . 
Not asleep , but so happy , dear . 
See , I found this and read it . 
I knew you wouldn't care . 
Have I been all that to you , Jo ? she asked , with wistful , humble earnestness . 
OH , Beth , so much , so much ! And Jo's head went down upon the pillow beside her sister's . 
Then I don't feel as if I'd wasted my life . 
I'm not so good as you make me , but I have tried to do right . 
More than any one in the world , Beth . 
I know it cannot , and I don't fear it any longer , for I'm sure I shall be your Beth still , to love and help you more than ever . 
You must take my place , Jo , and be everything to Father and Mother when I'm gone . 
When morning came , for the first time in many months the fire was out , Jo's place was empty , and the room was very still . 
CHAPTER FORTY ONE Amy's lecture did Laurie good , though , of course , he did not own it till long afterward . 
Men seldom do , for when women are the advisers , the lords of creation don't take the advice till they have persuaded themselves that it is just what they intended to do . 
Then they act upon it , and , if it succeeds , they give the weaker vessel half the credit of it . 
If it fails , they generously give her the whole . 
There was nothing the young gentleman would have liked better , but elephants could not have dragged him back after the scolding he had received . 
Pride forbid , and whenever the longing grew very strong , he fortified his resolution by repeating the words that had made the deepest impression , I despise you . 
Go and do something splendid that will make her love you . 
He felt that his blighted affections were quite dead now , and though he should never cease to be a faithful mourner , there was no occasion to wear his weeds ostentatiously . 
Jo wouldn't love him , but he might make her respect and admire him by doing something which should prove that a girl's no had not spoiled his life . 
He had always meant to do something , and Amy's advice was quite unnecessary . 
He had only been waiting till the aforesaid blighted affections were decently interred . 
That being done , he felt that he was ready to hide his stricken heart , and still toil on' . 
Then he tried an opera , for nothing seemed impossible in the beginning , but here again unforeseen difficulties beset him . 
He wanted Jo for his heroine , and called upon his memory to supply him with tender recollections and romantic visions of his love . 
When he looked about him for another and a less intractable damsel to immortalize in melody , memory produced one with the most obliging readiness . 
He did not do much , but he thought a great deal and was conscious of a change of some sort going on in spite of himself . 
It's genius simmering , perhaps . 
I'll let it simmer , and see what comes of it , he said , with a secret suspicion all the while that it wasn't genius , but something far more common . 
Then suddenly he tore up his music sheets , one by one , and as the last fluttered out of his hand , he said soberly to himself . 
She is right ! Talent isn't genius , and you can't make it so . 
That music has taken the vanity out of my as Rome took it out of her , and I won't be a humbug any longer . 
Now what shall I do ? That seemed a hard question to answer , and Laurie began to wish he had to work for his daily bread . 
Very likely some Mrs. Grundy will observe , I don't believe it , boys will be boys , young men must sow their wild oats , and women must not expect miracles . 
I dare say you don't , Mrs. Grundy , but it's true nevertheless . 
Women work a good many miracles , and I have a persuasion that they may perform even that of raising the standard of manhood by refusing to echo such sayings . 
Let the boys be boys , the longer the better , and let the young men sow their wild oats if they must . 
Laurie thought that the task of forgetting his love for Jo would absorb all his powers for years , but to his great surprise he discovered it grew easier every day . 
The wound persisted in healing with a rapidity that astonished him , and instead of trying to forget , he found himself trying to remember . 
He had not foreseen this turn of affairs , and was not prepared for it . 
He was disgusted with himself , surprised at his own fickleness , and full of a queer mixture of disappointment and relief that he could recover from such a tremendous blow so soon . 
He carefully stirred up the embers of his lost love , but they refused to burst into a blaze . 
As the word brotherly' passed through his mind in one of his reveries , he smiled , and glanced up at the picture of Mozart that was before him . 
Well , he was a great man , and when he couldn't have one sister he took the other , and was happy . 
I'll try again , and if that fails , why then . 
It came at last , and settled his mind effectually on one point , for Jo decidedly couldn't and wouldn't . 
She was wrapped up in Beth , and never wished to hear the word love again . 
Then she begged him to be happy with somebody else , but always keep a little corner of his ghart for his loving sister Jo . 
That would be time enough , please God , but Laurie must write to her often , and not let her feel lonely , homesick or anxious . 
So I will , at once . 
Poor little girl , it will be a sad going home for her , I'm afraid . 
And Laurie opened his desk , as if writing to Amy had been the proper conclusion of the sentence left unfinished some weeks before . 
But he did not write the letter that day , for as he rummaged out his best paper , he came across something which changed his purpose . 
The letter went very soon , however , and was promptly answered , for Amy was homesick , and confessed it in the most delightfully confiding manner . 
The correspondence flourished famously , and letters flew to and fro with unfailing regularity all through the early spring . 
Laurie sold his busts , made allumettes of his opera , and went back to Paris , hoping somebody would arrive before long . 
It troubled her to remember that now , she wished she could take it back , it sounded so unwomanly . 
She didn't want Laurie to think her a heartless , worldly creature . 
She didn't care to be a queen of society now half so much as she did to be a lovable woman . 
She was so glad he didn't hate her for the dreadful things she said , but took them so beautifully and was kinder than ever . 
His letters were such a comfort , for the home letters were very irregular and not half so satisfactory as his when they did come . 
It was not only a pleasure , but a duty to answer them , for the poor fellow was forlorn , and needed petting , since Jo persisted in being stonyhearted . 
She ought to have made an effort and tried to love him . 
It couldn't be very hard , many people would be proud and glad to have such a dear boy care for them . 
But Jo never would act like other girls , so there was nothing to do but be very kind and treat him like a brother . 
If all brothers were treated as well as Laurie was at this period , they would be a much happier race of beings than they are . 
But she certainly did grow a little pale and pensive that spring , lost much of her relish for society , and went out sketching alone a good deal . 
That was all , but he understood it , and looked relieved , as he said to himself , with a venerable air . 
I was sure she would think better of it . 
Poor old fellow ! I've been through it all , and I can sympathize . 
While these changes were going on abroad , trouble had come at home . 
But her heart was very heavy , she longed to be at home , and every day looked wistfully across the lake , waiting for Laurie to come and comfort her . 
He did come very soon , for the same mail brought letters to them both , but he was in Germany , and it took some days to reach him . 
He knew Vevay well , and as soon as the boat touched the little quay , he hurried along the shore to La Tour , where the Carrols were living en pension . 
The garcon was in despair that the whole family had gone to take a promenade on the lake , but no , the blonde mademoiselle might be in the chateau garden . 
If monsier would give himself the pain of sitting down , a flash of time should present her . 
But monsieur could not wait even a flash of time' , and in the middle of the speech departed to find mademoiselle himself . 
At one corner of the wide , low wall was a seat , and here Amy often came to read or work , or console herself with the beauty all about her . 
She was sitting here that day , leaning her head on her hand , with a homesick heart and heavy eyes , thinking of Beth and wondering why Laurie did not come . 
She did not hear him cross the courtyard beyond , nor see him pause in the archway that led from the subterranean path into the garden . 
He stood a minute looking at her with new eyes , seeing what no one had ever seen before , the tender side of Amy's character . 
He did not tell her so , but she was not disappointed , for both felt the truth , were satisfied , and gladly left the rest to silence . 
As he sat down beside her , amy felt shy again , and turned rosy red at the recollection of her impulsive greeting . 
I couldn't help it , I felt so lonely and sad , and was so very glad to see you . 
It was such a surprise to look up and find you , just as I was beginning to fear you wouldn't come , she said , trying in vain to speak quite naturally . 
I came the minute I heard . 
I wish I could say something to comfort you for the loss of dear little Beth , but I can only feel , and . 
He could not get any further , for her too turned bashful all of a sudden , and did not quite know what to say . 
You needn't say anything , this comforts me , she said softly . 
Beth is well and happy , and I mustn't wish her back , but I dread the going home , much as I long to see them all . 
We won't talk about it now , for it makes me cry , and I want to enjoy you while you stay . 
You needn't go right back , need you ? Not if you want me , dear . 
I do , so much . 
Aunt and Flo are very kind , but you seem like one of the family , and it would be so comfortable to have you for a little while . 
At Nice , Laurie had lounged and Amy had scolded . 
He said the change was owing to the climate , and she did not contradict him , being glad of a like excuse for her own recovered health and spirits . 
The invigorating air did them both good , and much exercise worked wholesome changes in minds as well as bodies . 
They seemed to get clearer views of life and duty up there among the everlasting hills . 
The fresh winds blew away desponding doubts , delusive fancies , and moody mists . 
The warm spring sunshine brought out all sorts of aspiring ideas , tender hopes , and happy thoughts . 
The lake seemed to wash away the troubles of the past , and the grand old mountains to look benignly down upon them saying , Little children , love one another . 
In spite of the new sorrow , it was a very happy time , so happy that Laurie could not bear to disturb it by a word . 
It took him a little while to recover from his surprise at the cure of his first , and as he had firmly believed , his last and only love . 
His first wooing had been of the tempestuous order , and he looked back upon it as if through a long vista of years with a feeling of compassion blended with regret . 
He was not ashamed of it , but put it away as one of the bitter sweet experiences of his life , for which he could be grateful when the pain was over . 
His second wooing , he resolved , should be as calm and simple as possible . 
There was no need of having a scene , hardly any need of telling Amy that he loved her , she knew it without words and had given him his answer long ago . 
It all came about so naturally that no one could complain , and he knew that everybody would be pleased , even Jo . 
They had been floating about all the morning , from gloomy St . 
Gingolf to sunny Montreux , with the Alps of Savoy on one side , Mont St . 
They had been talking of Bonnivard , as they glided past Chillon , and of Rousseau , as they looked up at Clarens , where he wrote his Heloise . 
Neither had read it , but they knew it was a love story , and each privately wondered if it was half as interesting as their own . 
Rest a little , and let me row . 
It will do me good , for since you came I have been altogether lazy and luxurious . 
I'm not tired , but you may take an oar , if you like . 
There's room enough , though I have to sit nearly in the middle , else the boat won't trim , returned Laurie , as if he rather liked the arrangment . 
Feeling that she had not mended matters much , Amy took the offered third of a seat , shook her hair over her face , and accepted an oar . 
How well we pull together , don't we ? said Amy , who objected to silence just then . 
So well that I wish we might always pull in the same boat . 
Will you , Amy ? very tenderly . 
Yes , Laurie , very low . 
Then they both stopped rowing , and unconsciously added a pretty little tableau of human love and happiness to the dissolving views reflected in the lake . 
CHAPTER FORTY TWO It was easy to promise self abnegation when self was wrapped up in another , and heart and soul were purified by a sweet example . 
Some people seemed to get all sunshine , and some all shadow . 
It was not fair , for she tried more than Amy to be good , but never got any reward , only disappointment , trouble and hard work . 
But someone did come and help her , though Jo did not recognize her good angels at once because they wore familiar shapes and used the simple spells best fitted to poor humanity . 
Sacred moments , when heart talked to heart in the silence of the night , turning affliction to a blessing , which chastened grief and strengthned love . 
Feeling this , Jo's burden seemed easier to bear , duty grew sweeter , and life looked more endurable , seen from the safe shelter of her mother's arms . 
I need it more than she did , for I'm all wrong . 
She gave him entire confidence , he gave her the help she needed , and both found consolation in the act . 
Other helps had Jo humble , wholesome duties and delights that would not be denied their part in serving her , and which she slowly learned to see and value . 
You thoughtful creeter , you're determined we shan't miss that dear lamb ef you can help it . 
We don't say much , but we see it , and the Lord will bless you for't , see ef He don't . 
Marriage is an excellent thing , after all . 
It's just what you need to bring out the tender womanly half of your nature , Jo . 
You are like a chestnut burr , prickly outside , but silky soft within , and a sweet kernal , if one can only get at it . 
Love will make you show your heart one day , and then the rough burr will fall off . 
Frost opens chestnut burrs , ma am , and it takes a good shake to bring them down . 
Grief is the best opener of some hearts , and Jo's was nearly ready for the bag . 
Here was the task , not what she had expected , but better because self had no part in it . 
Now , could she do it ? She decided that she would try , and in her first attempt she found the helps I have suggested . 
Why don't you write ? That always used to make you happy , said her mother once , when the desponding fit over shadowed Jo . 
I've no heart to write , and if I had , nobody cares for my things . 
Write something for us , and never mind the rest of the world . 
I'm sure it would do you good , and please us very much . 
But Jo got out her desk and began to overhaul her half finished manuscripts . 
Letters from several persons , whose praise was honor , followed the appearance of the little story , newspapers copied it , and strangers as well as friends , admired it . 
For a small thing it was a great success , and Jo was more astonished than when her novel was commended and condemned all at once . 
What can there be in a simple little story like that to make people praise it so ? she said , quite bewildered . 
There is truth in it , Jo , that's the secret . 
Humor and pathos make it alive , and you have found your style at last . 
You wrote with not thoughts of fame and money , and put your heart into it , my daughter . 
You have had the bitter , now comes the sweet . 
Do your best , and grow as happy as we are in your success . 
If there is anything good or true in what I write , it isn't mine . 
I owe it all to you and Mother and Beth , said Jo , more touched by her father's words than by any amount of praise from the world . 
You like it , Mother ? said Jo , as they laid down the closely written sheets and looked at one another . 
Yes , I hoped it would be so , ever since Amy wrote that she had refused Fred . 
How sharp you are , Marmee , and how silent ! You never said a worked to me . 
Mothers have need of sharp eyes and discreet tongues when they have girls to manage . 
I was half afraid to put the idea into your head , lest you should write and congratulate them before the thing was settled . 
I'm not the scatterbrain I was . 
I'm sober and sensible enough for anyone's confidante now . 
So you are , my dear , and I should have made you mine , only I fancied it might pain you to learn that your Teddy loved someone else . 
Forgive me , dear , I can't help seeing that you are very lonely , and sometimes there is a hungry look in your eyes that goes to my heart . 
So I fancied that your boy might fill the empty place if he tried now . 
No , Mother , it is better as it ia , and I'm glad Amy has learned to love him . 
But you are right in one thing . 
I'm glad of that , Jo , for it shows that you are getting on . 
Mothers are the best lovers in the world , but I don't mind whispering to Marmee that I'd like to try all kinds . 
It's very curious , but the more I try to satisfy myself with all sorts of natural affections , the more I seem to want . 
I'd no idea hearts could take in so many . 
Mine is so elastic , it never seems full now , and I used to be quite contented with my family . 
And Mrs. March smiled her wise smile , as Jo turned back the leaves to read what Amy said of Laurie . 
It is so beautiful to be loved as Laurie loves me . 
He says he feels as if he could make a prosperous voyage now with me aboard as mate , and lots of love for ballast' . 
By and by Jo roamed away upstairs , for it was rainy , and she could not walk . 
She drew them out , turned them over , and relived that pleasant winter at kind Mrs. Kirke's . 
Wait for me , my friend . 
I may be a little late , but I shall surely come . 
Oh , if he only would ! So kine , so good , so patient with me always , my dear old Fritz . 
I didn't value him half enough when I had him , but now how I should love to see him , for everyone seems going away from me , and I'm all alone . 
It was her favorite way of spending the hour of dusk . 
Almost twenty five , and nothing to show for it . 
Jo was mistaken in that . 
There was a good deal to show , and by and by she saw , and was grateful for it . 
An old maid , that's what I'm to be . 
Well , I needn't be a sour saint nor a selfish sinner , and , I dare say , old maids are very comfortable when they get used to it , but . 
And there Jo sighed , as if the prospect was not inviting . 
It seldom is , at first , and thirty seems the end of all things to five and twenty . 
But it's not as bad as it looks , and one can get on quite happily if one has something in one's self to fall back upon . 
At twenty five , girls begin to talk about being old maids , but secretly resolve that they never will be . 
Even the sad , sour sisters should be kindly dealt with , because they have missed the sweetest part of life , if for no other reason . 
And looking at them with compassion , not contempt , girls in their bloom should remember that they too may miss the blossom time . 
But , like Jenny in the ballad . 
She could not think it he , and lay staring up at him in startled silence , till he stooped and kissed her . 
Then she knew him , and flew up , crying joyfully . 
Oh my Teddy ! Oh my Teddy ! Dear Jo , you are glad to see me , then ? Glad ! My blessed boy , words can't express my gladness . 
Where's Amy ? Your mother has got her down at Meg's . 
We stopped there by the way , and there was no getting my wife out of their clutches . 
Your what ? cried Jo , for Laurie uttered those two words with an unconscious pride and satisfaction which betrayed him . 
Oh , the dickens ! Now I've done it . 
And he looked so guilty that Jo was down on him like a flash . 
You've gone and got married ! Yes , please , but I never will again . 
And he went down upon his knees , with a penitent clasping of hands , and a face full of mischief , mirth , and triumph . 
Actually married ? Very much so , thank you . 
What dreadful thing will you do next ? And Jo fell into her seat with a gasp . 
A characteristic , but not exactly complimentary , congratulation , returned Laurie , still in an abject attitude , but beaming with satisfaction . 
Not a word , unless you let me come in my old place , and promise not to barricade . 
So , come and fess , Teddy . 
How good it sounds to hear you say Teddy' ! No one ever calls me that but you . 
And Laurie sat down with an air of great content . 
What does Amy call you ? My lord . 
Well , you look it . 
And Jo's eye plainly betrayed that she found her boy comelier than ever . 
The pillow was gone , but there was a barricade , nevertheless , a natural one , raised by time absence , and change of heart . 
Both felt it , and for a minute looked at one another as if that invisible barrier cast a little shadow over them . 
It was gone directly however , for Laurie said , with a vain attempt at dignity . 
Don't I look like a married man and the head of a family ? Not a bit , and you never will . 
You've grown bigger and bonnier , but you are the same scapegrace as ever . 
Now really , Jo , you ought to treat me with more respect , began Laurie , who enjoyed it all immensely . 
It's no use your going out in the cold to get Amy , for they are all coming up presently . 
I wanted to be the one to tell you the grand surprise , and have first skim' as we used to say when we squabbled about the cream . 
Of course you did , and spoiled your story by beginning at the wrong end . 
Now , start right , and tell me how it all happened . 
Well , I did it to please Amy , began Laurie , with a twinkle that made Jo exclaim . 
Amy did it to please you . 
Go on , and tell the truth , if you can , sir . 
Now she's beginning to marm it . 
Isn't it jolly to hear her ? said Laurie to the fire , and the fire glowed and sparkled as if it quite agreed . 
It's all the same , you know , she and I being one . 
We planned to come home with the Carrols , a month or more ago , but they suddenly changed their minds , and decided to pass another winter in Paris . 
But Grandpa wanted to come home . 
So I just settled the difficulty by saying , Let's be married , and then we can do as we like' . 
You always have things to suit you . 
And something in Laurie's voice made Jo say hastily . 
How did you ever get Aunt to agree ? It was hard work , but between us , we talked her over , for we had heaps of good reasons on our side . 
A trifle , perhaps , she's such a captivating little woman I can't help being proud of her . 
Well , then Uncle and Aunt were there to play propriety . 
We were so absorbed in one another we were of no mortal use apart , and that charming arrangement would make everything easy all round , so we did it . 
When , where , how ? asked Jo , in a fever of feminine interest and curiosity , for she could not realize it a particle . 
Six weeks ago , at the American consul's , in Paris , a very quiet wedding of course , for even in our happiness we didn't forget dear little Beth . 
Jo put her hand in his as he said that , and Laurie gently smoothed the little red pillow , which he remembered well . 
Why didn't you let us know afterward ? asked Jo , in a quieter tone , when they had sat quite still a minute . 
We wanted to surprise you . 
Amy had once called Valrosa a regular honeymoon home , so we went there , and were as happy as people are but once in their lives . 
Jo , dear , I want to say one thing , and then we'll put it by forever . 
Amy and you changed places in my heart , that's all . 
I was a boy then , headstrong and violent , and it took a hard lesson to show me my mistake . 
For it was one , Jo , as you said , and I found it out , after making a fool of myself . 
But I couldn't , and when I saw her in Switzerland , everything seemed to clear up all at once . 
The happy old times can't come back , and we mustn't expect it . 
We are man and woman now , with sober work to do , for playtime is over , and we must give up frolicking . 
I'm sure you feel this . 
I see the change in you , and you'll find it in me . 
I shall miss my boy , but I shall love the man as much , and admire him more , because he means to be what I hoped he would . 
Why , it seems only yesterday that I was buttoning Amy's pinafore , and pulling your hair when you teased . 
Mercy me , how time does fly ! As one of the children is older than yourself , you needn't talk so like a grandma . 
You may be a little older in years , but I'm ever so much older in feeling , Teddy . 
Women always are , and this last year has been such a hard one that I feel forty . 
Poor Jo ! We left you to bear it alone , while we went pleasuring . 
Here's a line , and there's another . 
Unless you smile , your eyes look sad , and when I touched the cushion , just now , I found a tear on it . 
You've had a great deal to bear , and had to bear it all alone . 
What a selfish beast I've been ! And Laurie pulled his own hair , with a remorseful look . 
I am lonely , sometimes , but I dare say it's good for me , and . 
You never shall be again , broke in Laurie , putting his arm about her , as if to fence out every human ill . 
If I shouldn't be in the way , it would be very pleasant . 
I begin to feel quite young already , for somehow all my troubles seemed to fly away when you came . 
You always were a comfort , Teddy . 
And Jo leaned her head on his shoulder , just as she did years ago , when Beth lay ill and Laurie told her to hold on to him . 
He looked down at her , wondering if she remembered the time , but Jo was smiling to herself , as if in truth her troubles had all vanished at his coming . 
You are the same Jo still , dropping tears about one minute , and laughing the next . 
You look a little wicked now . 
What is it , Grandma ? I was wondering how you and Amy get on together . 
By and by we shall take turns , for marriage , they say , halves one's rights and doubles one's duties . 
You'll go on as you begin , and Amy will rule you all the days of your life . 
Well , she does it so imperceptibly that I don't think I shall mind much . 
She is the sort of woman who knows how to rule well . 
That ever I should live to see you a henpecked husband and enjoying it ! cried Jo , with uplifted hands . 
My wife and I respect ourselves and one another too much ever to tyrannize or quarrel . 
Jo like that , and thought the new dignity very becoming , but the boy seemed changing very fast into the man , and regret mingled with her pleasure . 
I am sure of that . 
Amy and you never did quarrel as we used to . 
She is the sun and I the wind , in the fable , and the sun managed the man best , you remember . 
She can blow him up as well as shine on him , laughed Laurie . 
such a lecture as I got at Nice ! I give you my word it was a deal worse than any or your scoldings , a regular rouser . 
What baseness ! Well , if she abuses you , come to me , and I'll defend you . 
It was good to see him beam at my children' , as he called the young pair . 
Love has done much for our little girl , said her mother softly . 
She has had a good example before her all her life , my dear , Mr. March whispered back , with a loving look at the worn face and gray head beside him . 
Daisy found it impossible to keep her eyes off her pitty aunty' , but attached herself like a lap dog to the wonderful chatelaine full of delightful charms . 
Demi paused to consider the new relationship before he compromised himself by the rash acceptance of a bribe , which took the tempting form of a family of wooden bears from Berne . 
A flank movement produced an unconditional surrender , however , for Laurie knew where to have him . 
Young man , when I first had the honor of making your acquaintance you hit me in the face . 
Mrs. March as proudly leaned on the arm of my son' . 
Amy , who was handed about like refreshments , returned to the parlor on Father Laurence's arm . 
The others paired off as before , and this arrangement left Jo companionless . 
She did not mind it at the minute , for she lingered to answer Hannah's eager inquiry . 
Teddy thinks nothing too good for her , returned Jo with infinite satisfaction . 
No more there is ! Will you have hash or fishballs for breakfast ? asked Hannah , who wisely mingled poetry and prose . 
And Jo shut the door , feeling that food was an uncongenial topic just then . 
If she had known what birthday gift was coming every minute nearer and nearer , she would not have said to herself , I'll weep a little weep when I go to bed . 
It won't do to be dismal now . 
No , we haven't , only the family . 
My sister and friends have just come home , and we are all very happy . 
Come in , and make one of us . 
If I shall not be Monsieur de Trop , I will so gladly see them all . 
Not ill , but tired and sorrowful . 
We have had trouble since I saw you last . 
Ah , yes , I know . 
If the stranger had any doubts about his reception , they were set at rest in a minute by the cordial welcome he received . 
Everyone greeted him kindly , for Jo's sake at first , but very soon they liked him for his own . 
For poverty enriches those who live above it , and is a sure passport to truly hospitable spirits . 
Mr. Bhaer sat looking about him with the air of a traveler who knocks at a strange door , and when it opens , finds himself at home . 
But it did not last long . 
He got interested in spite of himself , and before he knew it , was drawn into the circle . 
For Mr. Bhaer talked well in this genial atmosphere , and did himself justice . 
Then his eyes would turn to Jo so wistfully that she would have surely answered the mute inquiry if she had seen it . 
A stealthy glance now and then refreshed her like sips of fresh water after a dusty walk , for the sidelong peeps showed her several propitious omens . 
Then he seemed quite inspired , though the burial customs of the ancients , to which the conversation had strayed , might not be considered an exhilarating topic . 
Nobody knew where the evening went to , for Hannah skillfully abstracted the babies at an early hour , nodding like two rosy poppies , and Mr. Laurence went home to rest . 
They were not all there . 
The little chair stood in its old place . 
The tidy basket , with the bit of work she left unfinished when the needle grew so heavy' , was still on its accustomed shelf . 
Let them hear how much you have improved , said Laurie , with pardonable pride in his promising pupil . 
But Amy whispered , with full eyes , as she twirled the faded stool , Not tonight , dear . 
I can't show off tonight . 
The room was very still , when the clear voice failed suddenly at the last line of Beth's favorite hymn . 
It was hard to say . 
Earth hath no sorrow that heaven cannot heal and Amy leaned against her husband , who stood behind her , feeling that her welcome home was not quite perfect without Beth's kiss . 
Now , we must finish with Mignon's song , for Mr. Bhaer sings that , said Jo , before the pause grew painful . 
And Mr. Bhaer cleared his throat with a gratified Hem ! as he stepped into the corner where Jo stood , saying . 
You will sing with me ? We go excellently well together . 
A pleasing fiction , by the way , for Jo had no more idea of music than a grasshopper . 
But she would have consented if he had proposed to sing a whole opera , and warbled away , blissfully regardless of time and tune . 
He forgot himself still further when Laurie said , in his most gracious manner , at parting . 
My wife and I are very glad to meet you , sir . 
Please remember that there is always a welcome waiting for you over the way . 
Then the Professor thanked him so heartily , and looked so suddenly illuminated with satisfaction , that Laurie thought him the most delightfully demonstrative old fellow he ever met . 
I suspect that is a wise man , remarked Mr. March , with placid satisfaction , from the hearthrug , after the last guest had gone . 
I know he is a good one , added Mrs. March , with decided approval , as she wound up the clock . 
I thought you'd like him , was all Jo said , as she slipped away to her bed . 
Go , dear , I forgot that you have any home but this . 
And Mrs. March pressed the white hand that wore the wedding ring , as if asking pardon for her maternal covetousness . 
I shouldn't have come over if I could have helped it , but I can't get on without my little woman any more than a . 
Weathercock can without the wind , suggested Jo , as he paused for a simile . 
Jo had grown quite her own saucy self again since Teddy came home . 
Don't know anything about the north , but am altogether salubrious and balmy , hey , my lady ? Lovely weather so far . 
I don't know how long it will last , but I'm not afraid of storms , for I'm learning how to sail my ship . 
Come home , dear , and I'll find your bootjack . 
I suppose that's what you are rummaging after among my things . 
Men are so helpless , Mother , said Amy , with a matronly air , which delighted her husband . 
What are you going to do with yourselves after you get settled ? asked Jo , buttoning Amy's cloak as she used to button her pinafores . 
We don't mean to say much about them yet , because we are such very new brooms , but we don't intend to be idle . 
I'm going into business with a devotion that shall delight Grandfather , and prove to him that I'm not spoiled . 
I need something of the sort to keep me steady . 
I'm tired of dawdling , and mean to work like a man . 
And Amy , what is she going to do ? asked Mrs. March , well pleased at Laurie's decision and the energy with which he spoke . 
That's about it , isn't it , Madame Recamier ? asked Laurie with a quizzical look at Amy . 
How happy those children seem together ! observed Mr. March , finding it difficult to become absorbed in his Aristotle after the young couple had gone . 
Yes , and I think it will last , added Mrs. March , with the restful expression of a pilot who has brought a ship safely into port . 
Happy Amy ! And Jo sighed , then smiled brightly as Professor Bhaer opened the gate with an impatient push . 
Later in the evening , when his mind had been set at rest about the bootjack , Laurie said suddenly to his wife , Mrs. Laurence . 
Now , Laurie , don't be too fastidious and worldly minded . 
If they love one another it doesn't matter a particle how old they are nor how poor . 
Women never should marry for money . 
Amy caught herself up short as the words escaped her , and looked at her husband , who replied , with malicious gravity . 
Certainly not , though you do hear charming girls say that they intend to do it sometimes . 
If my memory serves me , you once thought it your duty to make a rich match . 
That accounts , perhaps , for your marrying a good for nothing like me . 
Oh , my dearest boy , don't , don't say that ! I forgot you were rich when I said Yes' . 
I'd have married you if you hadn't a penny , and I sometimes wish you were poor that I might show how much I love you . 
And Amy , who was very dignified in public and very fond in private , gave convincing proofs of the truth of her words . 
I told Mamma so yesterday , and she looked as glad and grateful as if I'd given her a check for a million , to be spent in charity . 
You are not listening to my moral remarks , Mrs. Laurence . 
And Laurie paused , for Amy's eyes had an absent look , though fixed upon his face . 
Yes , I am , and admiring the mple in your chin at the same time . 
I don't wish to make you vain , but I must confess that I'm prouder of my handsome husband than of all his money . 
Don't laugh , but your nose is such a comfort to me . 
And Amy softly caressed the well cut feature with artistic satisfaction . 
Shall you care if Jo does marry Mr. Bhaer ? Oh , that's the trouble is it ? I thought there was something in the dimple that didn't quite suit you . 
Not being a dog in the manger , but the happiest fellow alive , I assure you I can dance at Jo's wedding with a heart as light as my heels . 
Do you doubt it , my darling ? Amy looked up at him , and was satisfied . 
Her little jealous fear vanished forever , and she thanked him , with a face full of love and confidence . 
I wish we could do something for that capital old Professor . 
Jo would find us out , and spoil it all . 
She is very proud of him , just as he is , and said yesterday that she thought poverty was a beautiful thing . 
Bless her dear heart ! She won't think so when she has a literary husband , and a dozen little professors and professorins to support . 
We won't interfere now , but watch our chance , and do them a good turn in spite of themselves . 
I owe Jo for a part of my education , and she believes in people's paying their honest debts , so I'll get round her in that way . 
Ah , we'll do quantities of good , won't we ? There's one sort of poverty that I particularly like to help . 
Out and out beggars get taken care of , but poor gentle folks fare badly , because they won't ask , and people don't dare to offer charity . 
Yet there are a thousand ways of helping them , if one only knows how to do it so delicately that it does not offend . 
I must say , I like to serve a decayed gentleman better than a blarnerying beggar . 
I suppose it's wrong , but I do , though it is harder . 
Because it takes a gentleman to do it , added the other member of the domestic admiration society . 
Thank you , I'm afraid I don't deserve that pretty compliment . 
If they haven't , it's a pleasure to comfort the poor souls , and keep them from despair when they find it out . 
Yes , indeed , and there's another class who can't ask , and who suffer in silence . 
I know something of it , for I belonged to it before you made a princess of me , as the king does the beggarmaid in the old story . 
Rich people have no right to sit down and enjoy themselves , or let their money accumulate for others to waste . 
It's not half so sensible to leave legacies when one dies as it is to use the money wisely while alive , and enjoy making one's fellow creatures happy with it . 
We'll have a good time ourselves , and add an extra relish to our own pleasure by giving other people a generous taste . 
Martin , stopping as you ride gallantly through the world to share your cloak with the beggar . 
If there ever were a pair of twins in danger of being utterly spoiled by adoration , it was these prattling Brookes . 
At three , Daisy demanded a needler' , and actually made a bag with four stitches in it . 
Though utterly unlike in character , the twins got on remarkably well together , and seldom quarreled more than thrice a day . 
A rosy , chubby , sunshiny little soul was Daisy , who found her way to everybody's heart , and nestled there . 
One of the captivating children , who seem made to be kissed and cuddled , adorned and adored like little goddesses , and produced for general approval on all festive occasions . 
Her small virtues were so sweet that she would have been quite angelic if a few small naughtinesses had not kept her delightfully human . 
It's your little mind , Demi , replied the sage , stroking the yellow head respectfully . 
What is a little mine ? It is something which makes your body move , as the spring made the wheels go in my watch when I showed it to you . 
I want to see it go wound . 
I can't do that any more than you could open the watch . 
God winds you up , and you go till He stops you . 
Does I ? And Demi's brown eyes grew big and bright as he took in the new thought . 
Is I wounded up like the watch ? Yes , but I can't show you how , for it is done when we don't see . 
Demi felt his back , as if expecting to find it like that of the watch , and then gravely remarked , I dess Dod does it when I's asleep . 
If he is old enough to ask the question he is old enough to receive true answers . 
I am not putting the thoughts into his head , but helping him unfold those already there . 
These children are wiser than we are , and I have no doubt the boy understands every word I have said to him . 
Now , Demi , tell me where you keep your mind . 
They'll make you sick , says Mamma to the young person who offers his services in the kitchen with unfailing regularity on plum pudding day . 
Me likes to be sick . 
I don't want to have you , so run away and help Daisy make patty cakes . 
He reluctantly departs , but his wrongs weigh upon his spirit , and by and by when an opportunity comes to redress them , he outwits Mamma by a shrewd bargain . 
Truly , Marmar ? asks Demi , with a brilliant idea in his well powdered head . 
But Demi corners her by the cool reply . 
Then we'll go and eat up all the raisins . 
Aunt Dodo was chief playmate and confidante of both children , and the trio turned the little house topsy turvy . 
But when Mr. Bhaer came , Jo neglected her playfellows , and dismay and desolation fell upon their little souls . 
Daisy , who was fond of going about peddling kisses , lost her best customer and became bankrupt . 
Mr. Bhaer's devotion was sincere , however likewise effective for honesty is the best policy in love as in law . 
He was one of the men who are at home with children , and looked particularly well when little faces made a pleasant contrast with his manly one . 
The excellent papa labored under the delusion that he was , and reveled in long discussions with the kindred spirit , till a chance remark of his more observing grandson suddenly enlightened him . 
Mr. Bhaer came in one evening to pause on the threshold of the study , astonished by the spectacle that met his eye . 
Excuse me for a moment . 
We are just finishing our lesson . 
Now , Demi , make the letter and tell its name . 
What have you been at today , bubchen ? asked Mr. Bhaer , picking up the gymnast . 
Me went to see little Mary . 
And what did you there ? I kissed her , began Demi , with artless frankness . 
Prut ! Thou beginnest early . 
What did the little Mary say to that ? asked Mr. Bhaer , continuing to confess the young sinner , who stood upon the knee , exploring the waistcoat pocket . 
Oh , she liked it , and she kissed me , and I liked it . 
Don't little boys like little girls ? asked Demi , with his mouth full , and an air of bland satisfaction . 
You precious chick ! Who put that into your head ? said Jo , enjoying the innocent revelation as much as the Professor . 
Thou shouldst save some for the little friend . 
Sweets to the sweet , mannling . 
And Mr. Bhaer offered Jo some , with a look that made her wonder if chocolate was not the nectar drunk by the gods . 
Demi also saw the smile , was impressed by it , and artlessy inquired . 
, either going or returning . 
Then , if she was going to Meg's he always had something for the babies . 
If her face was turned homeward , he had merely strolled down to see the river , and was just returning , unless they were tired of his frequent calls . 
By the second week , everyone knew perfectly well what was going on , yet everyone tried to look as if they were stone blind to the changes in Jo's face . 
They never asked why she sang about her work , did up her hair three times a day , and got so blooming with her evening exercise . 
And no one seemed to have the slightest suspicion that Professor Bhaer , while talking philosophy with the father , was giving the daughter lessons in love . 
Jo couldn't even lose her heart in a decorous manner , but sternly tried to quench her feelings , and failing to do so , led a somewhat agitated life . 
She was mortally afraid of being laughed at for surrendering , after her many and vehement declarations of independence . 
For a fortnight , the Professor came and went with lover like regularity . 
Disgusted , I dare say , and gone home as suddenly as he came . 
You'd better take the little umbrella , dear . 
It looks like rain , said her mother , observing that she had on her new bonnet , but not alluding to the fact . 
Yes , I want some twilled silesia , a paper of number nine needles , and two yards of narrow lavender ribbon . 
Have you got your thick boots on , and something warm under your cloak ? I believe so , answered Jo absently . 
If you happen to meet Mr. Bhaer , bring him home to tea . 
I quite long to see the dear man , added Mrs. March . 
A drop of rain on her cheek recalled her thoughts from baffled hopes to ruined ribbons . 
over the door , and said to herself , with a sternly reproachful air . 
You shall trudge away , and do your errands in the rain , and if you catch your death and ruin your bonnet , it's no more than you deserve . 
The fact that a somewhat dilapidated blue one remained stationary above the unprotected bonnet attracted her attention , and looking up , she saw Mr. Bhaer looking down . 
I feel to know the strong minded lady who goes so bravely under many horse noses , and so fast through much mus . 
What do you down here , my friend ? I'm shopping . 
May I go also , and take for you the bundles ? Yes , thank you . 
We thought you had gone , said Jo hastily , for she knew he was looking at her . 
Her bonnet wasn't big enough to hide her face , and she feared he might think the joy it betrayed unmaidenly . 
I knew you were busy about your own affairs , but we rather missed you , Father and Mother especially . 
And you ? I'm always glad to see you , sir . 
I thank you , and come one more time before I go . 
You are going , then ? I haf no longer any business here , it is done . 
Successfully , I hope ? said Jo , for the bitterness of disappointment was in that short reply of his . 
I ought to think so , for I haf a way opened to me by which I can make my bread and gif my Junglings much help . 
Tell me , please ! I like to know all about the the boys , said Jo eagerly . 
That is so kind , I gladly tell you . 
My friends find for me a place in a college , where I teach as at home , and earn enough to make the way smooth for Franz and Emil . 
For this I should be grateful , should I not ? Indeed you should . 
Ah ! But we shall not meet often , I fear , this place is at the West . 
So far away ! And Jo left her skirts to their fate , as if it didn't matter now what became of her clothes or herself . 
Mr. Bhaer could read several languages , but he had not learned to read women yet . 
When she met him she looked surprised , though it was impossible to help suspecting that she had come for that express purpose . 
On learning his good fortune she almost clapped her hands . 
Here's the place for my errands . 
Will you come in ? It won't take long . 
Jo rather prided herself upon her shopping capabilities , and particularly wished to impress her escort with the neatness and dispatch with which she would accomplish the business . 
But owing to the flutter she was in , everything went amiss . 
When they came out , he put the parcel under his arm with a more cheerful aspect , and splashed through the puddles as if he rather enjoyed it on the whole . 
What will we buy ? asked Jo , ignoring the latter part of his speech , and sniffing the mingled odors with an affectation of delight as they went in . 
May they haf oranges and figs ? asked Mr. Bhaer , with a paternal air . 
They eat them when they can get them . 
Do you care for nuts ? Like a squirrel . 
Then distorting his pockets with knobby bundles , and giving her the flowers to hold , he put up the old umbrella , and they traveled on again . 
Miss Marsch , I haf a great favor to ask of you , began the Professor , after a moist promenade of half a block . 
And Jo's heart began to beat so hard she was afraid he would hear it . 
I am bold to say it in spite of the rain , because so short a time remains to me . 
And Jo nearly crushed the small flowerpot with the sudden squeeze she gave it . 
I wish to get a little dress for my Tina , and I am too stupid to go alone . 
Will you kindly gif me a word of taste and help ? Yes , sir . 
And JO felt as calm and cool all of a sudden as if she had stepped into a refrigerator . 
Perhaps also a shawl for Tina's mother , she is so poor and sick , and the husband is such a care . 
Yes , yes , a thick , warm shawl would be a friendly thing to take the little mother . 
I'll do it with pleasure , Mr. Bhaer . 
Mr. Bhaer left it all to her , so she chose a pretty gown for Tina , and then ordered out the shawls . 
The clerk , being a married man , condescended to take an interest in the couple , who appeared to be shopping for their family . 
Your lady may prefer this . 
It's a superior article , a most desirable color , quite chaste and genteel , he said , shaking out a comfortable gray shawl , and throwing it over Jo's shoulders . 
Does this suit you , Mr. Bhaer ? she asked , turning her back to him , and feeling deeply grateful for the chance of hiding her face . 
Excellently well , we will haf it , answered the Professor , smiling to himself as he paid for it , while Jo continued to rummage the counters like a confirmed bargain hunter . 
Now shall we go home ? he asked , as if the words were very pleasant to him . 
Yes , it's late , and I'm so tired . 
Jo's voice was more pathetic than she knew . 
Mr. Bhaer was going away , he only cared for her as a friend , it was all a mistake , and the sooner it was over the better . 
With this idea in her head , she hailed an approaching omnibus with such a hasty gesture that the daisies flew out of the pot and were badly damaged . 
This is not our omniboos , said the Professor , waving the loaded vehicle away , and stopping to pick up the poor little flowers . 
I didn't see the name distinctly . 
Never mind , I can walk . 
I'm used to plodding in the mud , returned Jo , winking hard , because she would have died rather than openly wipe her eyes . 
Mr. Bhaer saw the drops on her cheeks , though she turned her head away . 
Instead of which , that undignified creature answered , with an irrepressible sob , Because you are going away . 
I came to see if you could care for it , and I waited to be sure that I was something more than a friend . 
Am I ? Can you make a little place in your heart for old Fritz ? he added , all in one breath . 
It was certainly proposing under difficulties , for even if he had desired to do so , Mr. Bhaer could not go down upon his knees , on account of the mud . 
Neither could he offer Jo his hand , except figuratively , for both were full . 
Much less could he indulge in tender remonstrations in the open street , though he was near it . 
, and every finger of his gloves needed mending . 
Passers by probably thought them a pair of harmless lunatics , for they entirely forgot to hail a bus , and strolled leisurely along , oblivious of deepening dusk and fog . 
The Professor looked as if he had conquered a kingdom , and the world had nothing more to offer him in the way of bliss . 
While Jo trudged beside him , feeling as if her place had always been there , and wondering how she ever could have chosen any other lot . 
Friedrich , why didn't you . 
Ah , heaven , she gifs me the name that no one speaks since Minna died ! cried the Professor , pausing in a puddle to regard her with grateful delight . 
I always call you so to myself I forgot , but I won't unless you like it . 
Like it ? It is more sweet to me than I can tell . 
Say thou' , also , and I shall say your language is almost as beautiful as mine . 
Isn't thou' a little sentimental ? asked Jo , privately thinking it a lovely monosyllable . 
Thank Gott , we Germans believe in sentiment , and keep ourselves young mit it . 
Your English you' is so cold , say thou' , heart's dearest , it means so much to me , pleaded Mr. Bhaer , more like a romantic student than a grave professor . 
Well , then , why didn't thou tell me all this sooner ? asked Jo bashfully . 
Now I shall haf to show thee all my heart , and I so gladly will , because thou must take care of it hereafter . 
Wouldst thou have said Yes' , then , if I had spoken ? I don't know . 
I'm afraid not , for I didn't have any heart just then . 
Prut ! That I do not believe . 
It was asleep till the fairy prince came through the wood , and waked it up . 
Ah , well , Die erste Liebe ist die beste' , but that I should not expect . 
Yes , the first love is the best , but be so contented , for I never had another . 
Teddy was only a boy , and soon got over his little fancy , said Jo , anxious to correct the Professor's mistake . 
Good ! Then I shall rest happy , and be sure that thou givest me all . 
I haf waited so long , I am grown selfish , as thou wilt find , Professorin . 
I like that , cried Jo , delighted with her new name . 
Now tell me what brought you , at last , just when I wanted you ? This . 
And Mr. Bhaer took a little worn paper out of his waistcoat pocket . 
How could that bring you ? she asked , wondering what he meant . 
I found it by chance . 
I knew it by the names and the initials , and in it there was one little verse that seemed to call me . 
I will see that you go not in the wet . 
Four little keys hung side by side , With faded ribbons , brave and gay When fastened there , with childish pride , Long ago , on a rainy day . 
Meg on the first lid , smooth and fair . 
No toys in this first chest remain , For all are carried away , In their old age , to join again In another small Meg's play . 
Ah , happy mother ! Well I know You hear , like a sweet refrain , Lullabies ever soft and low In the falling summer rain . 
My Beth ! the dust is always swept From the lid that bears your name , As if by loving eyes that wept , By careful hands that often came . 
The songs she sang , without lament , In her prison house of pain , Forever are they sweetly blent With the falling summer rain . 
Upon the last lid's polished field Legend now both fair and true A gallant knight bears on his shield , Amy in letters gold and blue . 
Four little chests all in a row , Dim with dust , and worn by time , Four women , taught by weal and woe To love and labor in their prime . 
Four sisters , parted for an hour , None lost , one only gone before , Made by love's immortal power , Nearest and dearest evermore . 
It's very bad poetry , but I felt it when I wrote it , one day when I was very lonely , and had a good cry on a rag bag . 
I never thought it would go where it could tell tales , said Jo , tearing up the verses the Professor had treasured so long . 
Yes , he added earnestly , I read that , and I think to myself , She has a sorrow , she is lonely , she would find comfort in true love . 
I haf a heart full , full for her . 
I had no courage to think that at first , heavenly kind as was your welcome to me . 
Jo thought that was splendid , and resolved to be worthy of her knight , though he did not come prancing on a charger in gorgeous array . 
What made you stay away so long ? she asked presently , finding it so pleasant to ask confidential questions and get delightful answers that she could not keep silent . 
How could I ask you to gif up so much for a poor old fellow , who has no fortune but a little learning ? I'm glad you are poor . 
I couldn't bear a rich husband , said Jo decidedly , adding in a softer tone , Don't fear poverty . 
I've known it long enough to lose my dread and be happy working for those I love , and don't call yourself old forty is the prime of life . 
I couldn't help loving you if you were seventy ! The Professor found that so touching that he would have been glad of his handkerchief , if he could have got at it . 
As her couldn't , Jo wiped his eyes for him , and said , laughing , as she took away a bundle or two . 
I may be strong minded , but no one can say I'm out of my sphere now , for woman's special mission is supposed to be drying tears and bearing burdens . 
I'm to carry my share , Friedrich , and help to earn the home . 
Make up your mind to that , or I'll never go , she added resolutely , as he tried to reclaim his load . 
Haf you patience to wait a long time , Jo ? I must go away and do my work alone . 
I must help my boys first , because , even for you , I may not break my word to Minna . 
I have my duty , also , and my work . 
I couldn't enjoy myself if I neglected them even for you , so there's no need of hurry or impatience . 
You can do your part out West , I can do mine here , and both be happy hoping for the best , and leaving the future to be as God wills . 
Ah ! Thou gifest me such hope and courage , and I haf nothing to gif back but a full heart and these empty hands , cried the Professor , quite overcome . 
The second year began rather soberly , for their prospects did not brighten , and Aunt March died suddenly . 
No , I don't , was Jo's decided answer , as she petted the fat poodle , whom she had adopted , out of respect to his former mistress . 
You don't mean to live there ? Yes , I do . 
But , my dear girl , it's an immense house , and will take a power of money to keep it in order . 
The garden and orchard alone need two or three men , and farming isn't in Bhaer's line , I take it . 
He'll try his hand at it there , if I propose it . 
And you expect to live on the produce of the place ? Well , that sounds paradisiacal , but you'll find it desperate hard work . 
The crop we are going to raise is a profitable one , And Jo laughed . 
Of what is this fine crop to consist , ma'am ? Boys . 
I want to open a school for little lads a good , happy , homelike school , with me to take care of them and Fritz to teach them . 
That's a truly Joian plan for you ! Isn't that just like her ? cried Laurie , appealing to the family , who looked as much surprised as he . 
I like it , said Mrs. March decidedly . 
So do I , added her husband , who welcomed the thought of a chance for trying the Socratic method of education on modern youth . 
It will be an immense care for Jo , said Meg , stroking the head or her one all absorbing son . 
Jo can do it , and be happy in it . 
Tell us all about it , cried Mr. Laurence , who had been longing to lend the lovers a hand , but knew that they would refuse his help . 
I knew you'd stand by me , sir . 
Amy does too I see it in her eyes , though she prudently waits to turn it over in her mind before she speaks . 
Now , my dear people , continued Jo earnestly , just understand that this isn't a new idea of mine , but a long cherished plan . 
I told my plan to Fritz once , and he said it was just what he would like , and agreed to try it when we got rich . 
Bless his dear heart , he's been doing it all his life helping poor boys , I mean , not getting rich , that he'll never be . 
Money doesn't stay in his pocket long enough to lay up any . 
It's just the place for boys , the house is big , and the furniture strong and plain . 
There's plenty of room for dozens inside , and splendid grounds outside . 
They could help in the garden and orchard . 
Such work is healthy , isn't it , sir ? Then Fritz could train and teach in his own way , and Father will help him . 
I can feed and nurse and pet and scold them , and Mother will be my stand by . 
I've always longed for lots of boys , and never had enough , now I can fill the house full and revel in the little dears to my heart's content . 
Think what luxury Plumfield my own , and a wilderness of boys to enjoy it with me . 
I don't see anything funny , she said gravely , when she could be heard . 
Nothing could be more natural and proper than for my Professor to open a school , and for me to prefer to reside in my own estate . 
She is putting on airs already , said Laurie , who regarded the idea in the light of a capital joke . 
Now don't be a wet blanket , Teddy . 
Of course I shall have rich pupils , also perhaps begin with such altogether . 
Then , when I've got a start , I can take in a ragamuffin or two , just for a relish . 
Rich people's children often need care and comfort , as well as poor . 
I've seen unfortunate little creatures left to servants , or backward ones pushed forward , when it's real cruelty . 
Some are naughty through mismanagment or neglect , and some lose their mothers . 
Besides , the best have to get through the hobbledehoy age , and that's the very time they need most patience and kindness . 
People laugh at them , and hustle them about , try to keep them out of sight , and expect them to turn all at once from pretty children into fine young men . 
They don't complain much plucky little souls but they feel it . 
I've been through some thing of it , and I know all about it . 
But you are not merely a businessman , you love good and beautiful things , enjoy them yourself , and let others go halves , as you always did in the old times . 
I am proud of you , Teddy , for you get better every year , and everyone feels it , though you won't let them say so . 
Yes , and when I have my flock , I'll just point to you , and say There's your model , my lads' . 
I say , Jo , that's rather too much , he began , just in his old boyish way . 
You have all done more for me than I can ever thank you for , except by doing my best not to disapoint you . 
You have rather cast me off lately , Jo , but I've had the best of help , nevertheless . 
So , if I've got on at all , you may thank these two for it . 
And he laid one hand gently on his grandfather's head , and the other on Amy's golden one , for the three were never far apart . 
I do think that families are the most beautiful things in all the world ! burst out Jo , who was in an unusually up lifted frame of mind just then . 
When I have one of my own , I hope it will be as happy as the three I know and love the best . 
If John and my Fritz were only here , it would be quite a little heaven on earth , she added more quietly . 
It was a very astonishing year altogether , for things seemed to happen in an unusually rapid and delightful manner . 
Almost before she knew where she was , Jo found herself married and settled at Plumfield . 
In this way , the sly old gentleman got round proud Jo , and furnished her with the style of boy in which she most delighted . 
It became a sort of boys' paradise , and Laurie suggested that it should be called the Bhaer garten' , as a compliment to its master and appropriate to its inhabitants . 
Every room in the big house was soon full . 
Every little plot in the garden soon had its owner . 
A regular menagerie appeared in barn and shed , for pet animals were allowed . 
Yes , Jo was a very happy woman there , in spite of hard work , much anxiety , and a perpetual racket . 
There were a great many holidays at Plumfield , and one of the most delightful was the yearly apple picking . 
For then the Marches , Laurences , Brookes . 
And Bhaers turned out in full force and made a day of it . 
The old orchard wore its holiday attire . 
Goldenrod and asters fringed the mossy walls . 
Grasshoppers skipped briskly in the sere grass , and crickets chirped like fairy pipers at a feast . 
Squirrels were busy with their small harvesting . 
Birds twittered their adieux from the alders in the lane , and every tree stood ready to send down its shower of red or yellow apples at the first shake . 
Everybody laughed and sang , climbed up and tumbled down . 
Mr. March strolled placidly about , quoting Tusser , Cowley , and Columella to Mr. Laurence , while enjoying . 
The gentle apple's winey juice . 
Laurie devoted himself to the little ones , rode his small daughter in a bushel basket , took Daisy up among the bird's nests , and kept adventurous Rob from breaking his neck . 
At four o'clock a lull took place , and baskets remained empty , while the apple pickers rested and compared rents and bruises . 
The little girls had a private tea party , and Ted roved among the edibles at his own sweet will . 
Demi , as the oldest grandchild , then presented the queen of the day with various gifts , so numerous that they were transported to the festive scene in a wheelbarrow . 
Funny presents , some of them , but what would have been defects to other eyes were ornaments to Grandma's for the children's gifts were all their own . 
Every stitch Daisy's patient little fingers had put into the handkerchiefs she hemmed was better than embroidery to Mrs. March . 
After this , the boys dispersed for a final lark , leaving Mrs. March and her daughters under the festival tree . 
And yet your life is very different from the one you pictured so long ago . 
Do you remember our castles in the air ? asked Amy , smiling as she watched Laurie and John playing cricket with the boys . 
Dear fellows ! It does my heart good to see them forget business and frolic for a day , answered Jo , who now spoke in a maternal way of all mankind . 
Yes , I remember , but the life I wanted then seems selfish , lonely , and cold to me now . 
My castle was the most nearly realized of all . 
I've got them all , thank God , and am the happiest woman in the world . 
And Meg laid her hand on her tall boy's head , with a face full of tender and devout content . 
I've begun to model a figure of baby , and Laurie says it is the best thing I've ever done . 
I think so , myself , and mean to do it in marble , so that , whatever happens , I may at least keep the image of my little angel . 
This cross was doing much for both father and mother , for one love and sorrow bound them closely together . 
Amy's nature was growing sweeter , deeper , and more tender . 
Into each life some rain must fall , Some days must be dark and sad and dreary . 
She is growing better , I am sure of it , my dear . 
Don't despond , but hope and keep happy , said Mrs. March , as tenderhearted Daisy stooped from her knee to lay her rosy cheek against her little cousin's pale one . 
I never ought to , while I have you to cheer me up , Marmee , and Laurie to take more than half of every burden , replied Amy warmly . 
So , in spite of my one cross , I can say with Meg , Thank God , I'm a happy woman . 
Fritz is getting gray and stout . 
I'm growing as thin as a shadow , and am thirty . 
But in spite of these unromantic facts , I have nothing to complain of , and never was so jolly in my life . 
Excuse the remark , but living among boys , I can't help using their expressions now and then . 
Yes , Jo , I think your harvest will be a good one , began Mrs. March , frightening away a big black cricket that was staring Teddy out of countenance . 
Not half so good as yours , Mother . 
Here it is , and we never can thank you enough for the patient sowing and reaping you have done , cried Jo , with the loving impetuosity which she never would outgrow . 
I hope there will be more wheat and fewer tares every year , said Amy softly . 
A large sheaf , but I know there's room in your heart for it , Marmee dear , added Meg's tender voice . 
