A Happy Corner of Oz . 
The Li Mon Eags Make Trouble . 
The Isle of the Magic Flower . 
The Beasts of the Forest of Gugu . 
The Loss of the Black Bag . 
The Wizard Learns the Magic Word . 
The Glass Cat Finds the Black Bag . 
The Magic of the Wizard . 
Dorothy and the Bumble Bees . 
The College of Athletic Arts . 
OZCOT at HOLLYWOOD in CALIFORNIA . 
Mount Munch On the east edge of the Land of Oz , in the Munchkin Country , is a big , tall hill called Mount Munch . 
But people DO live there , just the same . 
There are houses scattered here and there , each having its family of Hyups , as the people call themselves . 
The Hyups seldom go down the mountain , for the same reason that the Munchkins never climb up the sides are too steep . 
In one of the houses lived a wise old Hyup named Bini Aru , who used to be a clever Sorcerer . 
He destroyed many of his magic powders and tools of magic , and afterward honestly obeyed the law . 
He had never seen Ozma , but he knew she was his Ruler and must be obeyed . 
There was only one thing that grieved him . 
He had discovered a new and secret method of transformations that was unknown to any other Sorcerer . 
Glinda the Good did not know it , nor did the little Wizard of Oz , nor Dr . 
Pipt nor old Mombi , nor anyone else who dealt in magic arts . 
It was Bini Aru's own secret . 
Bini Aru had used this secret many times , but not to cause evil or suffering to others . 
been able to pronounce Pyrzqxgl ! the right way , so I think it is safe to give it to you . 
That was a clever idea , but what bothered the old Sorcerer was to find a secret place . 
So finally he decided it must be written somewhere in his own house . 
Bini Aru had a wife named Mopsi Aru who was famous for making fine huckleberry pies , and he had a son named Kiki Aru who was not famous at all . 
No one paid any attention to Kiki Aru , because he didn't amount to anything , anyway . 
Once a year there was a festival on Mount Munch which all the Hyups attended . 
It was held in the center of the saucer shaped country , and the day was given over to feasting and merry making . 
The young folks danced and sang songs the women spread the tables with good things to eat , and the men played on musical instruments and told fairy tales . 
Kiki Aru usually went to these festivals with his parents , and then sat sullenly outside the circle and would not dance or sing or even talk to the other young people . 
So the festival did not make him any happier than other days , and this time he told Bini Aru and Mopsi Aru that he would not go . 
He would rather stay at home and be unhappy all by himself , he said , and so they gladly let him stay . 
As he went in Kiki stubbed his toe on one of the floor boards . 
He searched everywhere but found no trace of his father's magic . 
Much disappointed , he started to go out again when he stubbed his toe on the same floor board . 
Examining the board more closely , Kiki found it had been pried up and then nailed down again in such a manner that it was a little higher than the other boards . 
He was just about to replace the board when it slipped from his hand and turned over , and he saw something written on the underside of it . 
Then he folded the paper and put it in his pocket , and replaced the board in the floor so that no one would suspect it had been removed . 
After this Kiki went into the garden and sitting beneath a tree made a careful study of the paper . 
So he studied it a long time , repeating it a hundred times in his mind until he was sure he would not forget it . 
But to make safety doubly sure he placed the paper in a tin box in a neglected part of the garden and covered the box with small stones . 
By this time it was getting late in the day and Kiki wished to attempt his first transformation before his parents returned from the festival . 
But now let me try my wings and see if I'm strong enough to fly across the desert . 
For he had decided to make his first trip to the country outside the Land of Oz . 
He had stolen this secret of transformation and he knew he had disobeyed the law of Oz by working magic . 
Perhaps Glinda or the Wizard of Oz would discover him and punish him , so it would be good policy to keep away from Oz altogether . 
Slowly Kiki rose into the air , and resting on his broad wings , floated in graceful circles above the saucer shaped mountain top . 
The Hawk Even a hawk has to fly high in order to cross the Deadly Desert , from which poisonous fumes are constantly rising . 
Kiki Aru felt sick and faint by the time he reached good land again , for he could not quite escape the effects of the poisons . 
But the fresh air soon restored him and he alighted in a broad table land which is called Hiland . 
Just beyond it is a valley known as Loland , and these two countries are ruled by the Gingerbread Man , John Dough , with Chick the Cherub as his Prime Minister . 
The hawk merely stopped here long enough to rest , and then he flew north and passed over a fine country called Merryland , which is ruled by a lovely Wax Doll . 
Then , following the curve of the Desert , he turned north and settled on a tree top in the Kingdom of Noland . 
Kiki was tired by this time , and the sun was now setting , so he decided to remain here till morning . 
From his tree top he could see a house near by , which looked very comfortable . 
A man was milking a cow in the yard and a pleasant faced woman came to the door and called him to supper . 
That made Kiki wonder what sort of food hawks ate . 
He felt hungry , but didn't know what to eat or where to get it . 
Who are you ? asked the man of the house . 
A stranger from the Land of Oz , replied Kiki Aru . 
Then you are welcome , said the man . 
Kiki was given a good supper and a good bed , and he behaved very well , although he refused to answer all the questions the good people of Noland asked him . 
Having escaped from his home and found a way to see the world , the young man was no longer unhappy , and so he was no longer cross and disagreeable . 
The people thought him a very respectable person and gave him breakfast next morning , after which he started on his way feeling quite contented . 
Then he flew westward into the Kingdom of Ix , and after a day in Queen Zixi's country went on westward into the Land of Ev . 
In the land of Ev he resumed his own shape again , for the cities and villages were close together and he could easily go on foot from one to another of them . 
Toward evening he came to a good Inn and asked the inn keeper if he could have food and lodging . 
You can if you have the money to pay , said the man , otherwise you must go elsewhere . 
This surprised Kiki , for in the Land of Oz they do not use money at all , everyone being allowed to take what he wishes without price . 
He had no money , therefore , and so he turned away to seek hospitality elsewhere . 
You'll be sorry for this ! exclaimed a small voice just over his head . 
Kiki looked up and saw that a sparrow , perched upon a branch , was watching him . 
Sorry for what ? he demanded . 
Oh , I saw the whole thing , asserted the sparrow . 
That's magic , and magic is wicked and unlawful and you stole money , and that's a still greater crime . 
You'll be sorry , some day . 
I don't care , replied Kiki Aru , scowling . 
Aren't you afraid to be wicked ? asked the sparrow . 
No , I didn't know I was being wicked , said Kiki , but if I was , I'm glad of it . 
I've always wanted to be wicked , but I didn't know how . 
Haw , haw , haw ! laughed someone behind him , in a big voice that's the proper spirit , my lad ! I'm glad I've met you shake hands . 
The sparrow gave a frightened squeak and flew away . 
Two Bad Ones Kiki turned around and saw a queer old man standing near . 
He didn't stand straight , for he was crooked . 
He had a fat body and thin legs and arms . 
He wore dull gray clothes that were tight fitting , and his pockets were all bunched out as if stuffed full of something . 
I didn't know you were here , said Kiki . 
I didn't come until after you did , said the queer old man . 
Who are you ? asked Kiki . 
I used to be the Nome King but I got kicked out of my country , and now I'm a wanderer . 
What made them kick you out ? inquired the Hyup boy . 
Well , it's the fashion to kick kings nowadays . 
I was a pretty good King to myself but those dreadful Oz people wouldn't let me alone . 
So I had to abdicate . 
What does that mean ? It means to be kicked out . 
But let's talk about something pleasant . 
Who are you and where did you come from ? I'm called Kiki Aru . 
I used to live on Mount Munch in the Land of Oz , but now I'm a wanderer like yourself . 
The Nome King gave him a shrewd look . 
I heard that bird say that you transformed yourself into a magpie and back again . 
Is that true ? Kiki hesitated , but saw no reason to deny it . 
He felt that it would make him appear more important . 
Well yes , he said . 
Then you're a wizard ? No I only understand transformations , he admitted . 
Well , that's pretty good magic , anyhow , declared old Ruggedo . 
I used to have some very fine magic , myself , but my enemies took it all away from me . 
Where are you going now ? I'm going into the inn , to get some supper and a bed , said Kiki . 
Have you the money to pay for it ? asked the Nome . 
I have one gold piece . 
And you're glad that you're wicked . 
I like you , young man , and I'll go to the inn with you if you'll promise not to eat eggs for supper . 
Don't you like eggs ? asked Kiki . 
I'm afraid of 'em they're dangerous ! said Ruggedo , with a shudder . 
All right , agreed Kiki I won't ask for eggs . 
Then come along , said the Nome . 
When they entered the inn , the landlord scowled at Kiki and said I told you I would not feed you unless you had money . 
Kiki showed him the gold piece . 
And how about you ? asked the landlord , turning to Ruggedo . 
The landlord was very polite to the strangers after that . 
So I had a lot of pockets made in my clothes and loaded them all up . 
Jewels are fine things to have with you when you travel you can trade them for anything . 
Are they better than gold pieces ? asked Kiki . 
The smallest of these jewels is worth a hundred gold pieces such as you stole from the old man . 
Don't talk so loud , begged Kiki , uneasily . 
Some one else might hear what you are saying . 
Then you've never seen the Emerald City of Oz ? Never . 
Well , said the Nome , I knew all the Oz people , and you can guess I do not love them . 
All during my wanderings I have brooded on how I can be revenged on them . 
Now that I've met you I can see a way to conquer the Land of Oz and be King there myself , which is better than being King of the Nomes . 
How can you do that ? inquired Kiki Aru , wonderingly . 
In the first place , I'll make a bargain with you . 
Tell me the secret of how to perform transformations and I will give you a pocketful of jewels , the biggest and finest that I possess . 
No , said Kiki , who realized that to share his power with another would be dangerous to himself . 
I'll give you TWO pocketsful of jewels , said the Nome . 
I'll give you every jewel I possess . 
No , no , no ! said Kiki , who was beginning to be frightened . 
Then , said the Nome , with a wicked look at the boy , I'll tell the inn keeper that you stole that gold piece and he will have you put in prison . 
Kiki laughed at the threat . 
Can you really do such wonderful transformations ? asked the old Nome , looking at him curiously . 
Of course , declared Kiki . 
I can transform you into a stick of wood , in a flash , or into a stone , and leave you here by the roadside . 
The wicked Nome shivered a little when he heard that , but it made him long more than ever to possess the great secret . 
After a while he said I'll tell you what I'll do . 
I'll help do that , said Kiki , but I won't tell you my secret . 
The Nome was so furious at this refusal that he jumped up and down with rage and spluttered and choked for a long time before he could control his passion . 
But the boy was not at all frightened . 
He laughed at the wicked old Nome , which made him more furious than ever . 
Let's give up the idea , he proposed , when Ruggedo had quieted somewhat . 
I don't know the Oz people you mention and so they are not my enemies . 
If they've kicked you out of your kingdom , that's your affair not mine . 
Wouldn't you like to be king of that splendid fairyland ? asked Ruggedo . 
Yes , I would , replied Kiki Aru but you want to be king yourself , and we would quarrel over it . 
No , said the Nome , trying to deceive him . 
I don't care to be King of Oz , come to think it over . 
I don't even care to live in that country . 
What I want first is revenge . 
I'll think it over , answered Kiki , and that is all he would say that evening . 
Of course , there was no such tool , and although Ruggedo searched in all the boy's pockets , he found nothing magical whatever . 
So he went back to his bed and began to doubt that Kiki could perform transformations . 
Next morning he said Which way do you travel to day ? I think I shall visit the Rose Kingdom , answered the boy . 
That is a long journey , declared the Nome . 
I shall transform myself into a bird , said Kiki , and so fly to the Rose Kingdom in an hour . 
Then transform me , also , into a bird , and I will go with you , suggested Ruggedo . 
But , in that case , let us fly together to the Land of Oz , and see what it looks like . 
Pleasant as were the countries he had visited , he heard everywhere that the Land of Oz was more beautiful and delightful . 
The Land of Oz was his own country , too , and if there was any possibility of his becoming its King , he must know something about it . 
While Kiki the Hyup thought , Ruggedo the Nome was also thinking . 
This boy possessed a marvelous power , and although very simple in some ways , he was determined not to part with his secret . 
There are wizards and magicians in Oz , remarked Kiki , after a time . 
They might discover us , in spite of our transformations . 
Not if we are careful , Ruggedo assured him . 
I said 'people , didn't I ? retorted the Nome . 
The book doesn't make a record of what birds do , or beasts . 
It only tells the doings of people . 
So , if we fly into the country as birds , Glinda won't know anything about it . 
Two birds couldn't conquer the Land of Oz , asserted the boy , scornfully . 
No that's true , admitted Ruggedo , and then he rubbed his forehead and stroked his long pointed beard and thought some more . 
Ah , now I have the idea ! he declared . 
I suppose you can transform us into beasts as well as birds ? Of course . 
And can you make a bird a beast , and a beast a bird again , without taking a human form in between ? Certainly , said Kiki . 
I can transform myself or others into anything that can talk . 
However , if I transformed myself into a tree , I would always remain a tree , because then I could not utter the magic word to change the transformation . 
I see I see , said Ruggedo , nodding his bushy , white head until the point of his hair waved back and forth like a pendulum . 
That fits in with my idea , exactly . 
Now , listen , and I'll explain to you my plan . 
We'll fly to Oz as birds and settle in one of the thick forests in the Gillikin Country . 
There you will transform us into powerful beasts , and as Glinda doesn't keep any track of the doings of beasts we can act without being discovered . 
But how can two beasts raise an army to conquer the powerful people of Oz ? inquired Kiki . 
But not an army of PEOPLE , mind you . 
That would be quickly discovered . 
It is impossible to kill anyone in the Land of Oz , declared Kiki . 
It isn't necessary to kill the Oz people , rejoined Ruggedo . 
I'm afraid I don't understand you , objected the boy . 
What will happen to the Oz people , and what sort of an army could we get together , except of people ? I'll tell you . 
The forests of Oz are full of beasts . 
Some of them , in the far away places , are savage and cruel , and would gladly follow a leader as savage as themselves . 
That is a splendid idea , you must admit , and it's so easy that we won't have any trouble at all to carry it through to success . 
Will the beasts consent , do you think ? asked the boy . 
To be sure they will . 
We can get every beast in Oz on our side except a few who live in Ozma's palace , and they won't count . 
Conspirators Kiki Aru didn't know much about Oz and didn't know much about the beasts who lived there , but the old Nome's plan seemed to him to be quite reasonable . 
He had a faint suspicion that Ruggedo meant to get the best of him in some way , and he resolved to keep a close watch on his fellow conspirator . 
This is always the way with wicked people . 
They cannot be trusted even by one another . 
Ruggedo thought he was fooling Kiki , and Kiki thought he was fooling Ruggedo so both were pleased . 
It's a long way across the Desert , remarked the boy , and the sands are hot and send up poisonous vapors . 
Let us wait until evening and then fly across in the night when it will be cooler . 
The former Nome King agreed to this , and the two spent the rest of that day in talking over their plans . 
When evening came they paid the inn keeper and walked out to a little grove of trees that stood near by . 
Remain here for a few minutes and I'll soon be back , said Kiki , and walking swiftly away , he left the Nome standing in the grove . 
Now we are ready for the start , said the voice of Kiki , coming from the eagle . 
Ruggedo realized that this time he had been outwitted . 
He had thought Kiki would utter the magic word in his presence , and so he would learn what it was , but the boy had been too shrewd for that . 
I had to have certain tools and make passes and say a lot of mystic words before I could transform anybody . 
What became of your magic tools ? inquired Kiki . 
Why did you let them do that ? asked the boy . 
Well , said Ruggedo , I couldn't help it . 
They rolled eggs at me EGGS dreadful eggs ! and if an egg even touches a Nome , he is ruined for life . 
Is any kind of an egg dangerous to a Nome ? Any kind and every kind . 
An egg is the only thing I'm afraid of . 
A Happy Corner of Oz There is no other country so beautiful as the Land of Oz . 
There are no other people so happy and contented and prosperous as the Oz people . 
But up to the time when the cruel and crafty Nome , Ruggedo , conspired with Kiki Aru , the Hyup , all such attempts had failed . 
The Oz people suspected no danger . 
Life in the world's nicest fairyland was one round of joyous , happy days . 
From a hundred towers and domes floated the banners of Oz , which included the Ozmies , the Munchkins , the Gillikins , the Winkies and the Quadlings . 
The banner of the Munchkins is blue , that of the Winkies yellow the Gillikin banner is purple , and the Quadling's banner is red . 
The colors of the Emerald City are of course green . 
Ozma's own banner has a green center , and is divided into four quarters . 
These quarters are colored blue , purple , yellow and red , indicating that she rules over all the countries of the Land of Oz . 
Still , these unknown subjects are not nearly so numerous as the known inhabitants of Oz , who occupy all the countries near to the Emerald City . 
One morning Dorothy crossed the hall of the palace and knocked on the door of another girl named Trot , also a guest and friend of Ozma . 
This sailor man was named Cap'n Bill , and he had accompanied Trot to the Land of Oz and was her oldest and most faithful comrade and friend . 
She's so good to us all that we certainly ought to remember her birthday . 
That's true , agreed Trot . 
I've been wondering , too , what I could give Ozma . 
It's pretty hard to decide , 'cause she's got already all she wants , and as she's a fairy and knows a lot about magic , she could satisfy any wish . 
I know , returned Dorothy , but that isn't the point . 
It isn't that Ozma NEEDS anything , but that it will please her to know we've remembered her birthday . 
But what shall we give her ? Trot shook her head in despair . 
I've tried to think and I can't , she declared . 
It's the same way with me , said Dorothy . 
What is it , Cap'n Bill ? It's an Enchanted Flower , said he . 
It's a pretty plant that stands in a golden flower pot an' grows all sorts o' flowers , one after another . 
One minute a fine rose buds an' blooms , an' then a tulip , an' next a chrys chrys anthemum , said Dorothy , helping him . 
That's it and next a dahlia , an' then a daffydil , an' on all through the range o' posies . 
That's wonderful ! exclaimed Dorothy . 
I think Ozma would like it . 
But where is the Magic Flower , and how can we get it ? asked Trot . 
Dun'no , zac'ly , slowly replied Cap'n Bill . 
The Glass Cat tol' me about it only yesterday , an' said it was in some lonely place up at the nor'east o' here . 
The Glass Cat goes travelin' all around Oz , you know , an' the little critter sees a lot o' things no one else does . 
That's true , said Dorothy , thoughtfully . 
Northeast of here must be in the Munchkin Country , and perhaps a good way off , so let's ask the Glass Cat to tell us how to get to the Magic Flower . 
The Glass Cat is one of the most curious creatures in all Oz . 
It was made by a famous magician named Dr . 
Pipt before Ozma had forbidden her subjects to work magic . 
Pipt had made the Glass Cat to catch mice , but the Cat refused to catch mice and was considered more curious than useful . 
This astonished cat was made all of glass and was so clear and transparent that you could see through it as easily as through a window . 
In the top of its head , however , was a mass of delicate pink balls which looked like jewels but were intended for brains . 
It had a heart made of blood red ruby . 
The eyes were two large emeralds . 
But , aside from these colors , all the rest of the animal was of clear glass , and it had a spun glass tail that was really beautiful . 
Here , wake up , said Cap'n Bill . 
We want to talk to you . 
Slowly the Glass Cat got upon its feed , yawned and then looked at the three who stood before it . 
How dare you disturb me ? it asked in a peevish voice . 
You ought to be ashamed of yourselves . 
Never mind that , returned the Sailor . 
Do you remember tellin' me yesterday 'bout a Magic Flower in a Gold Pot ? Do you think I'm a fool ? Look at my brains you can see 'em work . 
Of course I remember ! said the cat . 
Well , where can we find it ? You can't . 
It's none of your business , anyhow . 
Go away and let me sleep , advised the Glass Cat . 
Now , see here , said Dorothy we want the Magic Flower to give to Ozma on her birthday . 
You'd be glad to please Ozma , wouldn't you ? I'm not sure , replied the creature . 
Why should I want to please anybody ? You've got a heart , 'cause I can see it inside of you , said Trot . 
Yes it's a pretty heart , and I'm fond of it , said the cat , twisting around to view its own body . 
But it's made from a ruby , and it's hard as nails . 
Aren't you good for ANYthing ? asked Trot . 
Yes , I'm pretty to look at , and that's more than can be said of you , retorted the creature . 
The Flower will belong to Ozma , but everyone will know the Glass Cat discovered it . 
This was the kind of praise the crystal creature liked . 
Well , it said , while the pink brains rolled around , I found the Magic Flower way up in the north of the Munchkin Country where few people live or ever go . 
How did you get to the island ? asked Dorothy . 
No , but I'm not afraid of water , was the reply . 
I just walked across the river on the bottom . 
Under the water ? exclaimed Trot . 
The cat gave her a scornful look . 
How could I walk OVER the water on the BOTTOM of the river ? If you were transparent , anyone could see YOUR brains were not working . 
But I'm sure you could never find the place alone . 
It has always been hidden from the Oz people . 
But you , with your fine pink brains , could find it again , I s'pose , remarked Dorothy . 
Yes and if you want that Magic Flower for Ozma , I'll go with you and show you the way . 
That's lovely of you ! declared Dorothy . 
Trot and Cap'n Bill will go with you , for this is to be their birthday present to Ozma . 
While you're gone I'll have to find something else to give her . 
Come on , then , Cap'n , said the Glass Cat , starting to move away . 
Wait a minute , begged Trot . 
How long will we be gone ? Oh , about a week . 
Then I'll put some things in a basket to take with us , said the girl , and ran into the palace to make her preparations for the journey . 
Is it good poetry , Scraps ? asked Dorothy , doubtfully . 
It's as good as any ordinary song , was the reply . 
I have given it a dandy title , too . 
I shall call the song 'When Ozma Has a Birthday , Everybody's Sure to Be Gay , for She Cannot Help the Fact That She Was Born . 
That's a pretty long title , Scraps , said Dorothy . 
That makes it stylish , replied the Patchwork Girl , turning a somersault and alighting on one stuffed foot . 
Now a days the titles are sometimes longer than the songs . 
Dorothy left her and walked slowly toward the place , where she met the Tin Woodman just going up the front steps . 
What are you going to give Ozma on her birthday ? she asked . 
It's a secret , but I'll tell you , replied the Tin Woodman , who was Emperor of the Winkies . 
I am having my people make Ozma a lovely girdle set with beautiful tin nuggets . 
Each tin nugget will be surrounded by a circle of emeralds , just to set it off to good advantage . 
The clasp of the girdle will be pure tin ! Won't that be fine ? I'm sure she'll like it , said Dorothy . 
Do you know what I can give her ? I haven't the slightest idea , Dorothy . 
It took me three months to think of my own present for Ozma . 
What are you going to give Ozma on her birthday ? asked Dorothy . 
I want to surprise her , answered the Scarecrow . 
I won't tell , promised Dorothy . 
Well , I'm having some straw slippers made for her all straw , mind you , and braided very artistically . 
Ozma has always admired my straw filling , so I'm sure she'll be pleased with these lovely straw slippers . 
Ozma will be pleased with anything her loving friends give her , said the girl . 
What I'M worried about , Scarecrow , is what to give Ozma that she hasn't got already . 
That's what worried me , until I thought of the slippers , said the Scarecrow . 
You'll have to THINK , Dorothy that's the only way to get a good idea . 
If I hadn't such wonderful brains , I'd never have thought of those straw foot decorations . 
Dorothy left him and went to her room , where she sat down and tried to think hard . 
A fuzzy little black dog had squatted down at Dorothy's feet and now looked up at her with intelligent eyes . 
Tell me , Toto , said the girl what would Ozma like best for a birthday present ? The little black dog wagged his tail . 
Your love , said he . 
Ozma wants to be loved more than anything else . 
But I already love her , Toto ! Then tell her you love her twice as much as you ever did before . 
Let me see , said Toto . 
How would it be to give her that useless Pink Kitten ? No , Toto that wouldn't do . 
Well , I guess you'll have to figure it out for yourself , Dorothy , said the little dog . 
To MY notion you're more particular than Ozma will be . 
Dorothy decided that if anyone could help her it would be Glinda the Good , the wonderful Sorceress of Oz who was Ozma's faithful subject and friend . 
But Glinda's castle was in the Quadling Country and quite a journey from the Emerald City . 
The Wooden Sawhorse was one of the most remarkable creatures in Oz . 
Its body was a small log and its legs were limbs of trees stuck in the body . 
Its eyes were knots , its mouth was sawed in the end of the log and its ears were two chips . 
A small branch had been left at the rear end of the log to serve as a tail . 
The Sawhorse was a swift and willing traveler , and though it could talk if need arose , it seldom said anything unless spoken to . 
When the Sawhorse was harnessed to the Red Wagon there were no reins to guide him because all that was needed was to tell him where to go . 
Dorothy now told him to go to Glinda's Castle and the Sawhorse carried her there with marvelous speed . 
It was a great honor to be made one of Glinda's handmaidens . 
What is it , Glinda ? she asked . 
One of my recent discoveries , explained the Sorceress . 
I have found a way to make threads from emeralds , by softening the stones and then spinning them into long , silken strands . 
With these emerald threads we are weaving cloth to make Ozma a splendid court gown for her birthday . 
Dorothy's eyes were fairly dazed by the brilliance of the emerald cloth , some of which the girls had already woven . 
I've never seen ANYthing so beautiful ! she said , with a sigh . 
But tell me , Glinda , what can I give our lovely Ozma on her birthday ? The good Sorceress considered this question for a long time before she replied . 
Finally she said Of course there will be a grand feast at the Royal Palace on Ozma's birthday , and all our friends will be present . 
So I suggest that you make a fine big birthday cake of Ozma , and surround it with candles . 
Oh , just a CAKE ! exclaimed Dorothy , in disappointment . 
Nothing is nicer for a birthday , said the Sorceress . 
How many candles should there be on the cake ? asked the girl . 
A cake doesn't seem like much of a present , Dorothy asserted . 
Make it a surprise cake , suggested the Sorceress . 
Like what ? questioned Dorothy , eagerly . 
If I told you , it wouldn't be YOUR present to Ozma , but MINE , answered the Sorceress , with a smile . 
Think it over , my dear , and I am sure you can originate a surprise that will add greatly to the joy and merriment of Ozma's birthday banquet . 
Dorothy thanked her friend and entered the Red Wagon and told the Sawhorse to take her back home to the palace in the Emerald City . 
On the way she thought the matter over seriously of making a surprise birthday cake and finally decided what to do . 
The Wizard and Dorothy were firm friends and had enjoyed many strange adventures together . 
Wizard , said Dorothy , I want you to help me fix up a present for Ozma's birthday . 
I'll be glad to do anything for you and for Ozma , he answered . 
What's on your mind , Dorothy ? I'm going to make a great cake , with frosting and candles , and all that , you know . 
Very good , said the Wizard . 
In the center of this cake I'm going to leave a hollow place , with just a roof of the frosting over it , continued the girl . 
Very good , repeated the Wizard , nodding his bald head . 
Then , I want each monkey to cut out a piece of cake and hand it to a guest . 
Mercy me ! cried the little Wizard , as he chuckled with laughter . 
Is that ALL you want , Dorothy ? Almost , said she . 
Can you think of anything more the little monkeys can do , Wizard ? Not just now , he replied . 
But where will you get such tiny monkeys ? That's where you're to help me , said Dorothy . 
In some of those wild forests in the Gillikin Country are lots of monkeys . 
Big ones , said the Wizard . 
The Wizard looked at Dorothy with admiring approval , and chuckled again . 
Do you think they'll object ? asked the girl . 
Yes but perhaps we can argue them into it . 
Anyhow it's worth trying , and I'll help you if you'll agree to let this Surprise Cake be a present to Ozma from you and me together . 
I've been wondering what I could give Ozma , and as I've got to train the monkeys as well as make them small , I think you ought to make me your partner . 
Of course , said Dorothy I'll be glad to do so . 
Then it's a bargain , declared the Wizard . 
I'm ready to go any time , agreed Dorothy . 
Shall we ask Ozma to let us take the Sawhorse ? The Wizard did not answer that at once . 
He took time to think of the suggestion . 
No , he answered at length , the Red Wagon couldn't get through the thick forests and there's some danger to us in going into the wild places to search for monkeys . 
So I propose we take the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger . 
That's a splendid idea ! exclaimed Dorothy . 
Let's go now and ask the Hungry Tiger and the Cowardly Lion if they will help us . 
Shall we ask Ozma if we can go ? I think not , said the Wizard , getting his hat and his black bag of magic tools . 
This is to be a surprise for her birthday , and so she mustn't know where we're going . 
We'll just leave word , in case Ozma inquires for us , that we'll be back in a few days . 
The Forest of Gugu In the central western part of the Gillikin Country is a great tangle of trees called Gugu Forest . 
It is the biggest forest in all Oz and stretches miles and miles in every direction north , south , east and west . 
Adjoining it on the east side is a range of rugged mountains covered with underbrush and small twisted trees . 
You can find this place by looking at the Map of the Land of Oz . 
Gugu Forest is the home of most of the wild beasts that inhabit Oz . 
The biggest beasts inhabit the great forest , while the smaller ones live mostly in the mountain underbrush at the east . 
In Gugu Forest there is a King an enormous yellow leopard called Gugu after whom the forest is named . 
All these are fierce and ferocious beasts , and hold their high offices because they are more intelligent and more feared then their fellows . 
Since Oz became a fairyland , no man , woman or child ever dies in that land nor is anyone ever sick . 
Likewise the beasts of the forests never die , so that long years add to their cunning and wisdom , as well as to their size and strength . 
It is possible for beasts or even people to be destroyed , but the task is so difficult that it is seldom attempted . 
Even Ozma is not sure about this , and so the guests of Ozma from other lands are always carefully protected from any danger , so as to be on the safe side . 
In spite of the laws of the forests there are often fights among the beasts some of them have lost an eye or an ear or even had a leg torn off . 
Over this vast , wild Forest of Gugu flew two eagles , one morning , and near the center of the jungle the eagles alighted on a branch of a tall tree . 
Here is the place for us to begin our work , said one , who was Ruggedo , the Nome . 
Do many beasts live here ? asked Kiki Aru , the other eagle . 
The forest is full of them , said the Nome . 
There are enough beasts right here to enable us to conquer the people of Oz , if we can get them to consent to join us . 
To do that , we must go among them and tell them our plans , so we must now decide on what shapes we had better assume while in the forest . 
I suppose we must take the shapes of beasts ? said Kiki . 
But that requires some thought . 
All kinds of beasts live here , and a yellow leopard is King . 
If we become leopards , the King will be jealous of us . 
If we take the forms of some of the other beasts , we shall not command proper respect . 
I wonder if the beasts will attack us ? asked Kiki . 
I'm a Nome , and immortal , so nothing can hurt me , replied Ruggedo . 
I was born in the Land of Oz , so nothing can hurt me , said Kiki . 
But , in order to carry out our plans , we must win the favor of all the animals of the forest . 
Then what shall we do ? asked Kiki . 
Let us mix the shapes of several beasts , so we will not look like any one of them , proposed the wily old Nome . 
Won't that make a queer combination ? inquired Kiki . 
The queerer the better , declared Ruggedo . 
All right , said Kiki . 
You stay here , and I'll fly away to another tree and transform us both , and then we'll climb down our trees and meet in the forest . 
No , said the Nome , we mustn't separate . 
You must transform us while we are together . 
I won't do that , asserted Kiki , firmly . 
You're trying to get my secret , and I won't let you . 
The eyes of the other eagle flashed angrily , but Ruggedo did not dare insist . 
If he offended this boy , he might have to remain an eagle always and he wouldn't like that . 
Some day he hoped to be able to learn the secret word of the magical transformations , but just now he must let Kiki have his own way . 
All right , he said gruffly do as you please . 
He spread his eagle's wings and finding they were strong enough to support his monkey body and lion head he flew swiftly to the tree where he had left Ruggedo . 
The Nome was also transformed and was climbing down the tree because the branches all around him were so thickly entwined that there was no room between them to fly . 
Kiki quickly joined his comrade and it did not take them long to reach the ground . 
The Li Mon Eags Make Trouble There had been trouble in the Forest of Gugu that morning . 
Chipo the Wild Boar had bitten the tail off Arx the Giraffe while the latter had his head among the leaves of a tree , eating his breakfast . 
Arx kicked with his heels and struck Tirrip , the great Kangaroo , who had a new baby in her pouch . 
Tirrip knew it was the Wild Boar's fault , so she knocked him over with one powerful blow and then ran away to escape Chipo's sharp tusks . 
The four lords of the forest were holding solemn council in a small clearing when they saw two strange beasts approaching them beasts the like of which they had never seen before . 
Not one of the four , however , relaxed his dignity or showed by a movement that he was startled . 
The great Leopard crouched at full length upon a fallen tree trunk . 
With one consent they remained silent , eyeing with steadfast looks the intruders , who were making their way into their forest domain . 
Well met , Brothers ! said one of the strange beasts , coming to a halt beside the group , while his comrade with hesitation lagged behind . 
We are not brothers , returned the Gray Ape , sternly . 
Who are you , and how came you in the forest of Gugu ? We are two Li Mon Eags , said Ruggedo , inventing the name . 
A low roar of anger arose from the Council of Beasts . 
WHO'S going to do that ? asked Loo the Unicorn , in a high , squeaky voice , at the same time rising to his feet . 
The people of Oz , said Ruggedo . 
But what will WE be doing ? inquired the Unicorn . 
That's what I've come to talk to you about . 
You needn't talk ! We'll fight the Oz people ! screamed the Unicorn . 
We'll smash 'em we'll trample 'em we'll gore 'em we'll Silence ! growled Gugu the King , and Loo obeyed , although still trembling with wrath . 
The cold , steady gaze of the Leopard wandered over the two strange beasts . 
The people of Oz , said he , have not been our friends they have not been our enemies . 
They have let us alone , and we have let them alone . 
There is no reason for war between us . 
They could not use us as slaves if they should conquer us . 
I think you are telling us lies , you strange Li Mon Eag you mixed up beast who are neither one thing nor another . 
Oh , on my word , it's the truth ! protested the Nome in the beast's shape . 
I wouldn't lie for the world I Silence ! again growled Gugu the King and somehow , even Ruggedo was abashed and obeyed the edict . 
What do you say , Bru ? asked the King , turning to the great Bear , who had until now said nothing . 
How does the Mixed Beast know that what he says is true ? asked the Bear . 
Why , I can fly , you know , having the wings of an Eagle , explained the Nome . 
So we came here to warn you , for being beasts ourselves , although we live in the sky , we are your friends . 
The Leopard's lip curled and showed his enormous teeth , sharp as needles . 
He turned to the Gray Ape . 
What do YOU think , Rango ? he asked . 
Send these mixed beasts away , Your Majesty , replied the Gray Ape . 
Don't do that don't do that ! cried the Unicorn , nervously . 
The stranger said he would tell us what to do . 
Let him tell us , then . 
Are we fools , not to heed a warning ? Gugu the King turned to Ruggedo . 
Speak , Stranger , he commanded . 
Well , said the Nome , it's this way The Land of Oz is a fine country . 
Here in the dark forests the poor beasts have hard work to get enough to eat and to find a bed to rest in . 
Then the beasts will become the masters and the people their slaves . 
What good would that do us ? asked Bru the Bear . 
It would save you from slavery , for one thing , and you could enjoy all the fine things of Oz people have . 
Beasts wouldn't know what to do with the things people use , said the Gray Ape . 
But this is only part of my plan , insisted the Nome . 
Listen to the rest of it . 
We two Li Mon Eags are powerful magicians . 
For a moment no beast spoke . 
Then the King said Prove it . 
Prove what ? asked Ruggedo . 
Prove that you can transform us . 
If you are a magician transform the Unicorn into a man . 
Then we will believe you . 
If you fail , we will destroy you . 
All right , said the Nome . 
But I'm tired , so I'll let my comrade make the transformation . 
Kiki Aru had stood back from the circle , but he had heard all that was said . 
He now realized that he must make good Ruggedo's boast , so he retreated to the edge of the clearing and whispered the magic word . 
It's true ! shorted the man beast . 
Good gracious , look what I am ! It's wonderful ! The King of Beasts now addressed Ruggedo in a more friendly tone . 
We must believe your story , since you have given us proof of your power , said he . 
The transformations are easy to us because we are Li Mon Eags , but we cannot fight , or conquer even such weak creatures as the Oz people . 
Gugu the King turned to his Counselors . 
How shall we answer this friendly stranger ? he asked . 
Loo the former Unicorn was dancing around and cutting capers like a clown . 
On my word , your Majesty , he said , this being a man is more fun than being a Unicorn . 
You look like a fool , said the Gray Ape . 
Well , I FEEL fine ! declared the man beast . 
I think I prefer to be a Bear , said Big Bru . 
I was born a Bear , and I know a Bear's ways . 
So I am satisfied to live as a Bear lives . 
That , said the old Nome , is because you know nothing better . 
When we have conquered the Oz people , and you become a man , you'll be glad of it . 
The immense Leopard rested his chin on the log and seemed thoughtful . 
The beasts of the forest must decide this matter for themselves , he said . 
Go you , Rango the Gray Ape , and tell your monkey tribe to order all the forest beasts to assemble in the Great Clearing at sunrise to morrow . 
When all are gathered together , this mixed up Beast who is a magician shall talk to them and tell them what he has told us . 
Then , if they decide to fight the Oz people , who have declared war on us , I will lead the beasts to battle . 
Rango the Gray Ape turned at once and glided swiftly through the forest on his mission . 
The Bear gave a grunt and walked away . 
Gugu the King rose and stretched himself . 
Then he said to Ruggedo Meet us at sunrise to morrow , and with stately stride vanished among the trees . 
The man unicorn , left alone with the strangers , suddenly stopped his foolish prancing . 
You'd better make me a Unicorn again , he said . 
I like being a man , but the forest beasts won't know I'm their friend , Loo , and they might tear me in pieces before morning . 
So Kiki changed him back to his former shape , and the Unicorn departed to join his people . 
Ruggedo the Nome was much pleased with his success . 
To morrow , he said to Kiki Aru , we'll win over these beasts and set them to fight and conquer the Oz people . 
Then I will have my revenge on Ozma and Dorothy and all the rest of my enemies . 
But I am doing all the work , said Kiki . 
Never mind you're going to be King of Oz , promised Ruggedo . 
Will the big Leopard let me be King ? asked the boy anxiously . 
The Nome came close to him and whispered If Gugu the Leopard opposes us , you will transform him into a tree , and then he will be helpless . 
Of course , agreed Kiki , and he said to himself I shall also transform this deceitful Nome into a tree , for he lies and I cannot trust him . 
But the walking was not difficult and at last they came to the edge of a forest and stopped there to make camp and sleep until morning . 
From branches of trees Cap'n Bill made a tiny house that was just big enough for the little girl to crawl into and lie down . 
But first they ate some of the food Trot had carried in the basket . 
Don't you want some , too ? she asked the Glass Cat . 
No , answered the creature . 
I suppose you'll hunt around an' catch a mouse , remarked Cap'n Bill . 
Me ? Catch a mouse ! Why should I do that ? inquired the Glass Cat . 
Why , then you could eat it , said the sailor man . 
I beg to inform you , returned the crystal tabby , that I do not eat mice . 
The careless magician who made me didn't think I'd need to eat , I suppose . 
Don't you ever get hungry or thirsty ? asked Trot . 
I don't complain , you know , at the way I'm made , for I've never yet seen any living thing as beautiful as I am . 
I have the handsomest brains in the world . 
They're pink , and you can see 'em work . 
I wonder , said Trot thoughtfully , as she ate her bread and jam , if MY brains whirl around in the same way yours do . 
Brains , remarked Cap'n Bill , is of all kinds and work different ways . 
But I've noticed that them as thinks that their brains is best is often mistook . 
And in fact , no beast ventured from the forest to attack them . 
At daybreak they were up again , and after a simple breakfast Cap'n Bill said to the Glass Cat Up anchor , Mate , and let's forge ahead . 
Before long they reached the bank of a river . 
It was not very wide , at this place , but as they followed the banks in a northerly direction it gradually broadened . 
Also it's a sign our journey is nearly ended . 
If you can get to the island , your task is ended except to carry the thing home with you . 
Cap'n Bill looked at the broad expanse of water and began to whistle a low , quavering tune . 
Presently he took from the big pocket of his coat an axe blade , wound in an old cloth to keep the sharp edge from cutting his clothing . 
Then , with a large pocket knife , he cut a small limb from a tree and whittled it into a handle for his axe . 
Sit down , Trot , he advised the girl , as he worked . 
I've got quite a job ahead of me now , for I've got to build us a raft . 
What do we need a raft for , Cap'n ? Why , to take us to the island . 
We can't walk under water , in the river bed , as the Glass Cat did , so we must float atop the water . 
Can you make a raft , Cap'n Bill ? O' course , Trot , if you give me time . 
The little girl sat down on a log and gazed at the Island of the Magic Flower . 
Nothing else seemed to grow on the tiny isle . 
There was no tree , no shrub , no grass , even , as far as she could make out from that distance . 
But the gold pot glittered in the rays of the sun , and Trot could catch glimpses of glowing colors above it , as the Magic Flower changed from one sort to another . 
When I was here before , remarked the Glass Cat , lazily reclining at the girl's feet , I saw two Kalidahs on this very bank , where they had come to drink . 
What are Kalidahs ? asked the girl . 
The most powerful and ferocious beasts in all Oz . 
This forest is their especial home , and so there are few other beasts to be found except monkeys . 
The monkeys are spry enough to keep out of the way of the fierce Kalidahs , which attack all other animals and often fight among themselves . 
Did they try to fight you when you saw 'em ? asked Trot , getting very much excited . 
So , after a time , they discovered they could not hurt me , and went away . 
Cap'n Bill was cutting from the trees some long stakes , making them sharp at one end and leaving a crotch at the other end . 
These were to bind the logs of his raft together . 
He had fashioned several and was just finishing another when the Glass Cat cried Look out ! There's a Kalidah coming toward us . 
But Cap'n Bill called to her Wade into the river , Trot , up to your knees an' stay there ! and she obeyed him at once . 
Cap'n Bill moved pretty slowly , sometimes , but now he was quick as could be . 
As the Kalidah sprang toward him he stuck out his wooden leg and the point of it struck the beast between the eyes and sent it rolling upon the ground . 
By this means he captured the great beast and made it harmless , for try as it would , it could not get away from the stake that held it . 
Are you sure he can't get away ? she asked . 
But when my friends , the other Kalidahs , come here , they'll tear you to pieces for treating me this way . 
P'raps , remarked Cap'n Bill , coolly , as he chopped at the logs , an' p'raps not . 
When are your folks comin' here ? I don't know , admitted the Kalidah . 
But when they DO come , you can't escape them . 
If they hold off long enough , I'll have my raft ready , said Cap'n Bill . 
What are you going to do with a raft ? inquired the beast . 
We're goin' over to that island , to get the Magic Flower . 
The huge beast looked at him in surprise a moment , and then it began to laugh . 
The laugh was a good deal like a roar , and it had a cruel and derisive sound , but it was a laugh nevertheless . 
Good ! said the Kalidah . 
Good ! Very good ! I'm glad you're going to get the Magic Flower . 
But what will you do with it ? We're going to take it to Ozma , as a present on her birthday . 
The Kalidah laughed again then it became sober . 
If you get to the land on your raft before my people can catch you , it said , you will be safe from us . 
We can swim like ducks , so the girl couldn't have escaped me by getting into the water but Kalidahs don't go to that island over there . 
Why not ? asked Trot . 
Tell us the reason , urged Cap'n Bill . 
Well , it's the Isle of the Magic Flower , answered the Kalidah , and we don't care much for magic . 
If you hadn't had a magic leg , instead of a meat one , you couldn't have knocked me over so easily and stuck this wooden pin through me . 
So we're going to take it away to the Emerald City . 
I don't care , the beast replied in a surly tone . 
We Kalidahs would be just as contented if there wasn't a flower in our forest . 
What good are the things anyhow ? Don't you like pretty things ? asked Trot . 
No. You ought to admire my pink brains , anyhow , declared the Glass Cat . 
They're beautiful and you can see 'em work . 
Stuck Fast The day was nearly gone when , at last , the raft was ready . 
But it's safe , isn't it ? inquired the girl . 
Yes it's good enough to carry us to the island an' back again , an' that's about all we can expect of it . 
Saying this , Cap'n Bill pushed the raft into the water , and when it was afloat , stepped upon it and held out his hand to Trot , who quickly followed him . 
The Glass Cat boarded the raft last of all . 
The sailor had cut a long pole , and had also whittled a flat paddle , and with these he easily propelled the raft across the river . 
As they approached the island , the Wonderful Flower became more plainly visible , and they quickly decided that the Glass Cat had not praised it too highly . 
The colors of the flowers that bloomed in quick succession were strikingly bright and beautiful , and the shapes of the blossoms were varied and curious . 
Indeed , they did not resemble ordinary flowers at all . 
So intently did Trot and Cap'n Bill gaze upon the Golden Flower pot that held the Magic Flower that they scarcely noticed the island itself until the raft beached upon its sands . 
But then the girl exclaimed How funny it is , Cap'n Bill , that nothing else grows here excep' the Magic Flower . 
Then the sailor glanced at the island and saw that it was all bare ground , without a weed , a stone or a blade of grass . 
Trot , eager to examine the Flower closer , sprang from the raft and ran up the bank until she reached the Golden Flower pot . 
Then she stood beside it motionless and filled with wonder . 
Cap'n Bill joined her , coming more leisurely , and he , too , stood in silent admiration for a time . 
Ozma will like this , remarked the Glass Cat , sitting down to watch the shifting hues of the flowers . 
I'm sure she won't have as fine a birthday present from anyone else . 
Do you 'spose it's very heavy , Cap'n ? And can we get it home without breaking it ? asked Trot anxiously . 
Well , I've lifted many bigger things than that , he replied but let's see what it weighs . 
He tried to take a step forward , but could not lift his meat foot from the ground . 
His wooden leg seemed free enough , but the other would not budge . 
I seem stuck , Trot , he said , with a perplexed look at his foot . 
It ain't mud , an' it ain't glue , but somethin's holdin' me down . 
The girl attempted to lift her own feet , to go nearer to her friend , but the ground held them as fast as it held Cap'n Bill's foot . 
She tried to slide them , or to twist them around , but it was no use she could not move either foot a hair's breadth . 
This is funny ! she exclaimed . 
What do you 'spose has happened to us , Cap'n Bill ? I'm tryin' to make out , he answered . 
Take off your shoes , Trot . 
P'raps it's the leather soles that's stuck to the ground . 
She leaned down and unlaced her shoes , but found she could not pull her feet out of them . 
It's the same way with Trot . 
That's why you can't move . 
The roots hold you fast . 
Cap'n Bill was rather fat and couldn't see his own feet very well , but he squatted down and examined Trot's feet and decided that the Glass Cat was right . 
This is hard luck , he declared , in a voice that showed he was uneasy at the discovery . 
We're pris'ners , Trot , on this funny island , an' I'd like to know how we're ever goin' to get loose , so's we can get home again . 
Now I know why the Kalidah laughed at us , said the girl , and why he said none of the beasts ever came to this island . 
The horrid creature knew we'd be caught , and wouldn't warn us . 
Then , by getting the stake tangled among some thorny bushes , and wiggling his body , he managed to draw it out altogether . 
This one was not very revengeful , and now that his late foes were in danger of perishing , his anger against them faded away . 
Our own Kalidah King , he reflected , has certain magical powers of his own . 
Perhaps he knows how to fill up these two holes in my body . 
While the Kalidah was making good its escape Cap'n Bill took his pipe from his pocket and filled it with tobacco and lighted it . 
Then , as he puffed out the smoke , he tried to think what could be done . 
The Glass Cat seems all right , he said , an' my wooden leg didn't take roots and grow , either . 
So it's only flesh that gets caught . 
It's magic that does it , Cap'n ! I know , Trot , and that's what sticks me . 
We're livin' in a magic country , but neither of us knows any magic an' so we can't help ourselves . 
Couldn't the Wizard of Oz help us or Glinda the Good ? asked the little girl . 
Ah , now we're beginnin' to reason , he answered . 
I'd probably thought o' that , myself , in a minute more . 
Will you go ? Trot asked the cat , speaking very earnestly . 
I'm no messenger , to be sent here and there , asserted the curious animal in a sulky tone of voice . 
Well , said Cap'n Bill , you've got to go home , anyhow , 'cause you don't want to stay here , I take it . 
And , when you get home , it wouldn't worry you much to tell the Wizard what's happened to us . 
That's true , said the cat , sitting on its haunches and lazily washing its face with one glass paw . 
I don't mind telling the Wizard when I get home . 
Won't you go now ? pleaded Trot . 
That was the best way to manage the Glass Cat , which was so vain that it loved to be praised . 
I'm going home right away , said the creature , and I'll tell the Wizard to come and help you . 
Saying this , it walked down to the water and disappeared under the surface . 
Then Trot heaved a deep sigh . 
Cap'n , said she , we're in a bad fix . 
There's nothing here to eat , and we can't even lie down to sleep . 
Unless the Glass Cat hurries , and the Wizard hurries , I don't know what's going to become of us ! . 
The Beasts of the Forest of Gugu That was a wonderful gathering of wild animals in the Forest of Gugu next sunrise . 
Many other kinds of beasts , too numerous to mention , were there , and some were unlike any beasts we see in the menageries and zoos in our country . 
When the beasts had taken their places in the clearing and the rising sun was shooting its first bright rays over the treetops , King Gugu rose on his throne . 
The Leopard's giant form , towering above all the others , caused a sudden hush to fall on the assemblage . 
He says he is our friend , and he has proved to me and to my Counselors his magic powers . 
Kiki stayed down below and , half hidden by the shelf of rock , was scarcely noticed . 
The boy realized that the old Nome was helpless without his magic power , but he also realized that Ruggedo was the best talker . 
So he was willing the Nome should take the lead . 
Beasts of the Forest of Gugu , began Ruggedo the Nome , my comrade and I are your friends . 
We are magicians , and from our home in the sky we can look down into the Land of Oz and see everything that is going on . 
Also we can hear what the people below us are saying . 
Let us go to their forest and make them all our prisoners . 
Let us tie them with ropes , and beat them with sticks , until they work for us and become our willing slaves . 
Finally the roar died away , like distant thunder , and Ruggedo the Nome went on with his speech . 
We can save ourselves , cried an old Elephant . 
The Oz people are fairies , and you can't fight against magic unless you also have magic , answered the Nome . 
Tell us your plan ! shouted the huge Tiger , and the other beasts echoed his words , crying Tell us your plan . 
My plan is simple , replied Ruggedo . 
By our magic we will transform all you animals into men and women like the Oz people and we will transform all the Oz people into beasts . 
Having become men and women , you beasts will have all the comforts you desire , and having become beasts , the Oz people will be very miserable . 
That is our plan , and if you agree to it , we will all march at once into the Land of Oz and quickly conquer our enemies . 
When the stranger ceased speaking , a great silence fell on the assemblage , for the beasts were thinking of what he had said . 
He transformed ME , only last evening , and he can transform us all . 
Gugu the King now stepped forward . 
You have heard the stranger speak , said he , and now you must answer him . 
It is for you to decide . 
Shall we agree to this plan , or not ? Yes ! shouted some of the animals . 
And some were yet silent . 
Gugu looked around the great circle . 
Take more time to think , he suggested . 
Your answer is very important . 
Up to this time we have had no trouble with the Oz people , but we are proud and free , and never will become slaves . 
Think carefully , and when you are ready to answer , I will hear you . 
Kiki Uses His Magic Then arose a great confusion of sounds as all the animals began talking to their fellows . 
The monkeys chattered and the bears growled and the voices of the jaguars and lions rumbled , and the wolves yelped and the elephants had to trumpet loudly to make their voices heard . 
Such a hubbub had never been known in the forest before , and each beast argued with his neighbor until it seemed the noise would never cease . 
Ruggedo the Nome waved his arms and fluttered his wings to try to make them listen to him again , but the beasts paid no attention . 
Some wanted to fight the Oz people , some wanted to be transformed , and some wanted to do nothing at all . 
For into the circle strode a great Lion bigger and more powerful than any other lion there and on his back rode a little girl who smiled fearlessly at the multitude of beasts . 
And behind the Lion and the little girl came another beast a monstrous Tiger , who bore upon his back a funny little man carrying a black bag . 
Right past the rows of wondering beasts the strange animals walked , advancing until they stood just before the rock throne of Gugu . 
I am Gugu the Leopard , and I am King of this forest . 
Then I greet Your Majesty with great respect , said the Lion . 
Perhaps you have heard of me , Gugu . 
I am called the 'Cowardly Lion , and I am King of all Beasts , the world over . 
Yes , said he , I have heard of you . 
You have long claimed to be King of Beasts , but no beast who is a coward can be King over me . 
He isn't a coward , Your Majesty , asserted the little girl , He's just cowardly , that's all . 
All the other beasts were looking at her , too . 
Who are you ? asked the King . 
Me ? Oh , I'm just Dorothy , she answered . 
How dare you come here ? demanded the King . 
Why , I'm not afraid to go anywhere , if the Cowardly Lion is with me , she said . 
I know him pretty well , and so I can trust him . 
He's always afraid , when we get into trouble , and that's why he's cowardly but he's a terrible fighter , and that's why he isn't a coward . 
He doesn't like to fight , you know , but when he HAS to , there isn't any beast living that can conquer him . 
Gugu the King looked at the big , powerful form of the Cowardly Lion , and knew she spoke the truth . 
Also the other Lions of the forest now came forward and bowed low before the strange Lion . 
We welcome Your Majesty , said one . 
It is true , replied the Cowardly Lion but I did not come here to rule the beasts of this forest . 
Gugu is King here , and I believe he is a good King and just and wise . 
I come , with my friends , to be the guest of Gugu , and I hope we are welcome . 
That pleased the great Leopard , who said very quickly Yes you , at least , are welcome to my forest . 
But who are these strangers with you ? Dorothy has introduced herself , replied the Lion , and you are sure to like her when you know her better . 
This man is the Wizard of Oz , a friend of mine who can do wonderful tricks of magic . 
And here is my true and tried friend , the Hungry Tiger , who lives with me in the Emerald City . 
Is he ALWAYS hungry ? asked Loo the Unicorn . 
I am , replied the Tiger , answering the question himself . 
I am always hungry for fat babies . 
Can't you find any fat babies in Oz to eat ? inquired Loo , the Unicorn . 
There are plenty of them , of course , said the Tiger , but unfortunately I have such a tender conscience that it won't allow me to eat babies . 
So I'm always hungry for 'em and never can eat 'em , because my conscience won't let me . 
Now of all the surprised beasts in that clearing , not one was so much surprised at the sudden appearance of these four strangers as Ruggedo the Nome . 
So he took courage and resolved that the Wizard and Dorothy should not defeat his plans . 
It was hard to tell , just yet , what the vast assemblage of beasts thought of the new arrivals . 
Some glared angrily at them , but more of them seemed to be curious and wondering . 
All were interested , however , and they kept very quiet and listened carefully to all that was said . 
The Cowardly Lion's eyes now flashed fire he crouched low and lashed the ground with his tail and gazed around to discover who the treacherous magician might be . 
The little Munchkin boy was as angry as the lion had been , but he was small and helpless . 
Instead , he transformed the Nome into a goose , to Ruggedo's horror and dismay . 
But the Hungry Tiger had witnessed all these transformations , and he was watching to see which of those present was to blame for them . 
He was not an instant too quick in doing this , for Gugu the King had crouched on the rock's edge and was about to spring on the boy . 
The elephants backed into the forest , and all the other animals , big and little , rushed after them , scattering through the jungles until the clearing was far behind . 
A panic of fear seemed to have overtaken the forest people and they got as far away from the terrible Magician as they possibly could . 
Who are you ? the Munchkin boy asked the Rabbit and Who are you ? the Fox asked the Lamb and Who are you ? the Rabbit asked the fat Gillikin woman . 
I'm Dorothy , said the woolly Lamb . 
I'm the Wizard , said the Fox . 
I'm the Cowardly Lion , said the Munchkin boy . 
I'm the Hungry Tiger , said the Rabbit . 
I'm Gugu the King , said the fat Woman . 
But when they asked the Goose who he was , Ruggedo the Nome would not tell them . 
I'm just a Goose , he replied , and what I was before , I cannot remember . 
For , unless he understood their uses , they were of no value whatever . 
So he hung the Wizard's black bag on a branch of the tree and then climbed down to the lower limbs that he might see what the victims of his transformations were doing . 
They were all on top of the flat rock , talking together in tones so low that Kiki could not hear what they said . 
The tools are in my Black Bag but where is the Bag ? No one knew that , for none had seen Kiki Aru fly away with it . 
Let's look and see if we can find it , suggested Dorothy the Lamb . 
So they left the rock , and all of them searched the clearning high and low without finding the Bag of Magic Tools . 
Ruggedo was not really sorry , now that he thought about it , that Kiki had transformed all these Oz folks . 
So all was not lost , thought the old Nome , and the best thing for him to do was to rejoin the Hyup boy who had the secret of the transformations . 
Where's the Goose ? asked the Wizard . 
He must have run away , replied Dorothy . 
If so , his transformation was merely a trick to deceive us , and he has now gone to join his comrade , that wicked Li Mon Eag who obeyed all his commands . 
What shall we do now ? asked Dorothy . 
And we can take Gugu the King with us , and have Glinda restore him to his natural shape . 
But I hate to leave my Bag of Magic Tools behind me , for without it I shall lose much of my power as a Wizard . 
Also , if I go back to the Emerald City in the shape of a Fox , the Oz people will think I'm a poor Wizard and will lose their respect for me . 
Why did you come here , anyway ? inquired Gugu . 
We wanted to borrow a dozen monkeys , to use on Ozma's birthday , explained the Wizard . 
We were going to make them small , and train them to do tricks , and put them inside Ozma's birthday cake . 
Well , said the Forest King , you would have to get the consent of Rango the Gray Ape , to do that . 
He commands all the tribes of monkeys . 
I'm afraid it's too late , now , said Dorothy , regretfully . 
It was a splendid plan , but we've got troubles of our own , and I don't like being a lamb at all . 
You're nice and fuzzy , said the Cowardly Lion . 
That's nothing , declared Dorothy . 
I've never been 'specially proud of myself , but I'd rather be the way I was born than anything else in the whole world . 
Then it headed straight toward the Emerald City , and trotted so fast that it was like a crystal streak crossing the valleys and plains . 
Being glass , the cat was tireless , and with no reason to delay its journey , it reached Ozma's palace in wonderfully quick time . 
Where's the Wizard ? it asked the Pink Kitten , which was curled up in the sunshine on the lowest step of the palace entrance . 
Don't bother me , lazily answered the Pink Kitten , whose name was Eureka . 
I must find the Wizard at once ! said the Glass Cat . 
Then find him , advised Eureka , and went to sleep again . 
The Glass Cat darted up the stairway and came upon Toto , Dorothy's little black dog . 
Where's the Wizard ? asked the Cat . 
Gone on a journey with Dorothy , replied Toto . 
When did they go , and where have they gone ? demanded the Cat . 
They went yesterday , and I heard them say they would go to the Great Forest in the Munchkin Country . 
Dear me , said the Glass Cat that is a long journey . 
But they rode on the Hungry Tiger and the Cowardly Lion , explained Toto , and the Wizard carried his Black Bag of Magic Tools . 
The Glass Cat knew the Great Forest of Gugu well , for it had traveled through this forest many times in its journeys through the Land of Oz . 
It was a wild country and little traveled , but the Glass Cat knew every path . 
So very little time need be lost , after all . 
Without stopping to ask any more questions the Cat darted out of the palace and away from the Emerald City , taking the most direct route to the Forest of Gugu . 
Again the creature flashed through the country like a streak of light , and it would surprise you to know how quickly it reached the edge of the Great Forest . 
There were no monkey guards among the trees to cry out a warning , and this was so unusual that it astonished the Glass Cat . 
Going farther into the forest it presently came upon a wolf , which at first bounded away in terror . 
But then , seeing it was only a Glass Cat , the Wolf stopped , and the Cat could see it was trembling , as if from a terrible fright . 
What's the matter ? asked the Cat . 
A dreadful Magician has come among us ! exclaimed the Wolf , and he's changing the forms of all the beasts quick as a wink and making them all his slaves . 
The Glass Cat smiled and said Why , that's only the Wizard of Oz . 
He may be having some fun with you forest people , but the Wizard wouldn't hurt a beast for anything . 
I don't mean the Wizard , explained the Wolf . 
And if the Wizard of Oz is that funny little man who rode a great Tiger into the clearing , he's been transformed himself by the terrible Magician . 
The Wizard transformed ? Why , that's impossible , declared the Glass Cat . 
I saw him with my own eyes , changed into the form of a Fox , and the girl who was with him was changed to a woolly Lamb . 
The Glass Cat was indeed surprised . 
When did that happen ? it asked . 
Just a little while ago in the clearing . 
All the animals had met there , but they ran away when the Magician began his transformations , and I'm thankful I escaped with my natural shape . 
But I'm still afraid , and I'm going somewhere to hide . 
With this the Wolf ran on , and the Glass Cat , which knew where the big clearing was , went toward it . 
But now it walked more slowly , and its pink brains rolled and tumbled around at a great rate because it was thinking over the amazing news the Wolf had told it . 
The Cat watched them a moment and then it walked slowly into the open space . 
At once the Lamb ran toward it , crying Oh , Wizard , here's the Glass Cat ! Where , Dorothy ? asked the Fox . 
It's lost , said the Fox , and we must find it . 
Are you the Wizard ? asked the Cat . 
And who are these others ? I'm Dorothy , said the Lamb . 
I'm the Cowardly Lion , said the Munchkin boy . 
I'm the Hungry Tiger , said the Rabbit . 
I'm Gugu , King of the Forest , said the fat Woman . 
The Glass Cat sat on its hind legs and began to laugh . 
My , what a funny lot ! exclaimed the Creature . 
Who played this joke on you ? It's no joke at all , declared the Wizard . 
The Glass Cat laughed again . 
That Magician must look funnier than you do , it said . 
Where is he now ? Somewhere in the forest , said the Cowardly Lion . 
He just jumped into that tall maple tree over there , for he can climb like a monkey and fly like an eagle , and then he disappeared in the forest . 
What became of the Goose ? asked the Cat , looking around . 
He must have gone away to find his friend , answered Gugu the King . 
But a Goose can't travel very fast , so we could easily find him if we wanted to . 
The worst thing of all , said the Wizard , is that my Black Bag is lost . 
It disappeared when I was transformed . 
If I could find it I could easily break these enchantments by means of my magic , and we would resume our own forms again . 
Will you help us search for the Black Bag , Friend Cat ? Of course , replied the Glass Cat . 
But I expect the strange Magician carried it away with him . 
If he's a magician , he knows you need that Bag , and perhaps he's afraid of your magic . 
So he's probably taken the Bag with him , and you won't see it again unless you find the Magician . 
That sounds reasonable , remarked the Lamb , which was Dorothy . 
Those pink brains of yours seem to be working pretty well to day . 
If the Glass Cat is right , said the Wizard in a solemn voice , there's more trouble ahead of us . 
That Magician is dangerous , and if we go near him he may transform us into shapes not as nice as these . 
I don't see how we could be any WORSE off , growled Gugu , who was indignant because he was forced to appear in the form of a fat woman . 
Anyway , said the Cowardly Lion , our best plan is to find the Magician and try to get the Black Bag from him . 
We may manage to steal it , or perhaps we can argue him into giving it to us . 
Why not find the Goose , first ? asked Dorothy . 
The Goose will be angry at the Magician , and he may be able to help us . 
That isn't a bad idea , returned the Wizard . 
Come on , Friends let's find that Goose . 
We will separate and search in different directions , and the first to find the Goose must bring him here , where we will all meet again in an hour . 
The Nome detested anything in the way of a bird , because birds lay eggs and eggs are feared by all the Nomes more than anything else in the world . 
A goose is a foolish bird , too , and Ruggedo was dreadfully ashamed of the shape he was forced to wear . 
And it would make him shudder to reflect that the Goose might lay an egg ! So the Nome was afraid of himself and afraid of everything around him . 
If an egg touched him he could then be destroyed , and almost any animal he met in the forest might easily conquer him . 
And that would be the end of old Ruggedo the Nome . 
Aside from these fears , however , he was filled with anger against Kiki , whom he had meant to trap by cleverly stealing from him the Magic Word . 
Kiki Aru hadn't gone very far away , for he had surprised himself as well as the others by the quick transformations and was puzzled as to what to do next . 
The Goose looked up and saw him . 
You've bungled things in a dreadful way ! exclaimed the Goose . 
Why did you do it ? Because I wanted to , answered Kiki . 
You acted as if I was your slave , and I wanted to show these forest people that I am more powerful than you . 
The Goose hissed softly , but Kiki did not hear that . 
Old Ruggedo quickly recovered his wits and muttered to himself This boy is the goose , although it is I who wear the goose's shape . 
I will be gentle with him now , and fierce with him when I have him in my power . 
Then he said aloud to Kiki Well , hereafter I will be content to acknowledge you the master . 
You bungled things , as I said , but we can still conquer Oz . 
How ? asked the boy . 
First give me back the shape of the Li Mon Eag , and then we can talk together more conveniently , suggested the Nome . 
Wait a moment , then , said Kiki , and climbed higher up the tree . 
There he whispered the Magic Word and the Goose became a Li Mon Eag , as he had been before . 
Good ! said the Nome , well pleased , as Kiki joined him by dropping down from the tree . 
Now let us find a quiet place where we can talk without being overheard by the beasts . 
The old Nome whispered to Kiki not to enter the clearing or allow the monkeys to see them . 
Why not ? asked the boy , drawing back . 
Because those monkeys are to be our army the army which will conquer Oz , said the Nome . 
Sit down here with me , Kiki , and keep quiet , and I will explain to you my plan . 
Now , neither Kiki Aru nor Ruggedo had noticed that a sly Fox had followed them all the way from the tree where the Goose had been transformed to the Li Mon Eag . 
A Fox can move through a forest very softly , without making any noise , and so the Wizard's enemies did not suspect his presence . 
This is my plan , said the Nome to Kiki , speaking so low that the Wizard could only hear the rumble of his voice . 
Since you can transform anything into any form you wish , we will transform these monkeys into an army , and with that army we will conquer the Oz people . 
The monkeys won't make much of an army , objected Kiki . 
We need a great army , but not a numerous one , responded the Nome . 
You will transform each monkey into a giant man , dressed in a fine uniform and armed with a sharp sword . 
There are fifty monkeys over there and fifty giants would make as big an army as we need . 
What will they do with the swords ? asked Kiki . 
Nothing can kill the Oz people . 
Therefore , the Oz people will be afraid of the swords of our army , and we will conquer them with ease . 
That seems like a good idea , replied the boy , approvingly . 
And in such a case , we need not bother with the other beasts of the forest . 
No you have frightened the beasts , and they would no longer consent to assist us in conquering Oz . 
But those monkeys are foolish creatures , and once they are transformed to Giants , they will do just as we say and obey our commands . 
Can you transform them all at once ? No , I must take one at a time , said Kiki . 
But the fifty transformations can be made in an hour or so . 
Stay here , Ruggedo , and I will change the first monkey that one at the left , on the end of the limb into a Giant with a sword . 
Where are you going ? asked the Nome . 
Ruggedo the Nome was disappointed , but he hoped still to catch the boy unawares and surprise the Magic Word . 
So he merely nodded his lion head , and Kiki got up and went back into the forest a short distance . 
The monkey was instantly transformed into the Giant , and the Giant was so big that as he stood on the ground his head was higher than the trees of the forest . 
The monkeys raised a great chatter but did not seem to understand that the Giant was one of themselves . 
Good ! cried the Nome . 
Hurry , Kiki , and transform the others . 
But he sat still in the hollow and waited to hear it again , so it would be impressed on his mind and he would not forget it . 
Then the Wizard decided he would make an experiment and use the Magic Word himself . 
The Wizard was delighted , and leaped from the hollow just as Ruggedo looked around to see what had become of Kiki . 
The Nome saw the Fox but no Kiki , so he hastily rose to his feet . 
The Wizard did not know how powerful the queer beast might be , so he resolved to take no chances . 
I want this creature to become a walnut Pyrzqxgl ! he said aloud . 
But he did not pronounce the Magic Word in quite the right way , and Ruggedo's form did not change . 
So the Fox was not transformed , but it had to run away to escape being caught by the angry Nome . 
However , the Wizard , who was used to magic arts , remained calm and soon remembered exactly how Kiki Aru had pronounced the word . 
So he repeated the sentence he had before uttered and Ruggedo the Nome became an ordinary walnut . 
Dorothy the Lamb uttered a bleat of delight when she saw her old friend restored to his natural shape . 
The others were all there , not having found the Goose . 
The fat Gillikin woman , the Munchkin boy , the Rabbit and the Glass Cat crowded around the Wizard and asked what had happened . 
And the little Wizard showed his astonished friends the hickory nut and the walnut to prove that he had spoken the truth . 
But see here ! exclaimed Dorothy . 
What has become of those Giant Soldiers who used to be monkeys ? I forgot all about them ! admitted the Wizard but I suppose they are still standing there in the forest . 
The Lonesome Duck Trot and Cap'n Bill stood before the Magic Flower , actually rooted to the spot . 
Aren't you hungry , Cap'n ? asked the little girl , with a long sigh , for she had been standing there for hours and hours . 
I'm not sure 'bout that , Cap'n Bill , she said thoughtfully . 
Age MIGHT make a diff'rence , but seems to me SIZE would make a bigger diff'rence . 
Seeing you're twice as big as me , you ought to be twice as hungry . 
I hope I am , he rejoined , for I can stand it a while longer . 
I do hope the Glass Cat will hurry , and I hope the Wizard won't waste time a comin' to us . 
Trot sighed again and watched the wonderful Magic Flower , because there was nothing else to do . 
Just now a lovely group of pink peonies budded and bloomed , but soon they faded away , and a mass of deep blue lilies took their place . 
But I get awful tired watchin' flowers an' flowers an' flowers , she said impatiently . 
They're might pretty , observed Cap'n Bill . 
I wish , Cap'n Bill , the thing would grow fruit for a while instead of flowers . 
Scarcely had she spoken when the white balls with crimson spots faded away and a lot of beautiful ripe peaches took their place . 
With a cry of mingled surprise and delight Trot reached out and plucked a peach from the bush and began to eat it , finding it delicious . 
Cap'n Bill was somewhat dazed at the girl's wish being granted so quickly , so before he could pick a peach they had faded away and bananas took their place . 
Grab one , Cap'n ! exclaimed Trot , and even while eating the peach she seized a banana with her other hand and tore it from the bush . 
The old sailor was still bewildered . 
He put out a hand indeed , but he was too late , for now the bananas disappeared and lemons took their place . 
You can't eat those things but watch out , Cap'n , for something else . 
Cocoanuts next appeared , but Cap'n Bill shook his head . 
Ca'n't crack 'em , he remarked , 'cause we haven't anything handy to smash 'em with . 
Well , take one , anyhow , advised Trot but the cocoanuts were gone now , and a deep , purple , pear shaped fruit which was unknown to them took their place . 
Again Cap'n Bill hesitated , and Trot said to him You ought to have captured a peach and a banana , as I did . 
If you're not careful , Cap'n , you'll miss all your chances . 
Here , I'll divide my banana with you . 
Even as she spoke , the Magic Plant was covered with big red apples , growing on every branch , and Cap'n Bill hesitated no longer . 
He grabbed with both hands and picked two apples , while Trot had only time to secure one before they were gone . 
It's curious , remarked the sailor , munching his apple , how these fruits keep good when you've picked 'em , but dis'pear inter thin air if they're left on the bush . 
The whole thing is curious , declared the girl , and it couldn't exist in any country but this , where magic is so common . 
I wonder why it changed back , mused Trot , who was not worried because she had enough fruit to satisfy her hunger . 
Well , you only wished it would bear fruit 'for a while , said the sailor , and it did . 
P'raps if you'd said 'forever , Trot , it would have always been fruit . 
But why should MY wish be obeyed ? asked the girl . 
I'm not a fairy or a wizard or any kind of a magic maker . 
I guess , replied Cap'n Bill , that this little island is a magic island , and any folks on it can tell the bush what to produce , an' it'll produce it . 
Do you think I could wish for anything else , Cap'n and get it ? she inquired anxiously . 
What are you thinkin' of , Trot ? I'm thinking of wishing that these roots on our feet would disappear , and let us free . 
So she tried it , and the wish had no effect whatever . 
Try it yourself , Cap'n , she suggested . 
Then Cap'n Bill made the wish to be free , with no better result . 
But I'm gett'n' tired standing here so long , complained the girl . 
If I could only lift one foot , and rest it , I'd feel better . 
Same with me , Trot . 
I've noticed that if you've got to do a thing , and can't help yourself , it gets to be a hardship mighty quick . 
Folks that can raise their feet don't appreciate what a blessing it is , said Trot thoughtfully . 
I never knew before what fun it is to raise one foot , an' then another , any time you feel like it . 
There's lots o' things folks don't 'preciate , replied the sailor man . 
If somethin' would 'most stop your breath , you'd think breathin' easy was the finest thing in life . 
When a person's well , he don't realize how jolly it is , but when he gets sick he 'members the time he was well , an' wishes that time would come back . 
Your wooden leg ain't so bad , Cap'n , she remarked , looking at it critically . 
Anyhow , it don't take root on a Magic Island , like our meat legs do . 
I ain't complainin' , said Cap'n Bill . 
What's that swimmin' towards us , Trot ? he added , looking over the Magic Flower and across the water . 
The girl looked , too , and then she replied . 
It's a bird of some sort . 
It's like a duck , only I never saw a duck have so many colors . 
The bird swam swiftly and gracefully toward the Magic Isle , and as it drew nearer its gorgeously colored plumage astonished them . 
You're strangers , said the bird , coming to a halt near them , and you've been caught by the Magic Isle and made prisoners . 
Yes , returned Trot , with a sigh we're rooted . 
But I hope we won't grow . 
You'll grow small , said the Bird . 
You'll keep growing smaller every day , until bye and bye there'll be nothing left of you . 
That's the usual way , on this Magic Isle . 
How do you know about it , and who are you , anyhow ? asked Cap'n Bill . 
I'm the Lonesome Duck , replied the bird . 
I suppose you've heard of me ? No , said Trot , I can't say I have . 
What makes you lonesome ? Why , I haven't any family or any relations , returned the Duck . 
Haven't you any friends ? Not a friend . 
And I've nothing to do . 
I've lived a long time , and I've got to live forever , because I belong in the Land of Oz , where no living thing dies . 
I can't make friends because everyone I meet bird , beast , or person is disagreeable to me . 
In a few minutes I shall be unable to bear your society longer , and then I'll go away and leave you , said the Lonesome Duck . 
And , as for doing anything , there's no use in it . 
All I meet are doing something , so I have decided it's common and uninteresting and I prefer to remain lonesome . 
Don't you have to hunt for your food ? asked Trot . 
No. In my diamond palace , a little way up the river , food is magically supplied me but I seldom eat , because it is so common . 
You must be a Magician Duck , remarked Cap'n Bill . 
Why so ? Well , ordinary ducks don't have diamond palaces an' magic food , like you do . 
True and that's another reason why I'm lonesome . 
You must remember I'm the only Duck in the Land of Oz , and I'm not like any other duck in the outside world . 
Seems to me you LIKE bein' lonesome , observed Cap'n Bill . 
I can't say I like it , exactly , replied the Duck , but since it seems to be my fate , I'm rather proud of it . 
How do you s'pose a single , solitary Duck happened to be in the Land of Oz ? asked Trot , wonderingly . 
I used to know the reason , many years ago , but I've quite forgotten it , declared the Duck . 
The reason for a thing is never so important as the thing itself , so there's no use remembering anything but the fact that I'm lonesome . 
I guess you'd be happier if you tried to do something , asserted Trot . 
If you can't do anything for yourself , you can do things for others , and then you'd get lots of friends and stop being lonesome . 
Now you're getting disagreeable , said the Lonesome Duck , and I shall have to go and leave you . 
Can't you help us any , pleaded the girl . 
If there's anything magic about you , you might get us out of this scrape . 
I haven't any magic strong enough to get you off the Magic Isle , replied the Lonesome Duck . 
What magic I possess is very simple , but I find it enough for my own needs . 
If we could only sit down a while , we could stand it better , said Trot , but we have nothing to sit on . 
Then you will have to stand it , said the Lonesome Duck . 
P'raps you've enough magic to give us a couple of stools , suggested Cap'n Bill . 
A duck isn't supposed to know what stools are , was the reply . 
But you're diff'rent from all other ducks . 
The strange creature seemed to reflect for a moment , looking at them sharply from its round black eyes . 
Then it said Sometimes , when the sun is hot , I grow a toadstool to shelter me from its rays . 
Perhaps you could sit on toadstools . 
Well , if they were strong enough , they'd do , answered Cap'n Bill . 
Then , before I do I'll give you a couple , said the Lonesome Duck , and began waddling about in a small circle . 
It went around the circle to the right three times , and then it went around to the left three times . 
Then it hopped backward three times and forward three times . 
What are you doing ? asked Trot . 
This is an incantation , replied the Lonesome Duck , but now it began making a succession of soft noises that sounded like quacks and seemed to mean nothing at all . 
I told you not to interrupt , said the Lonesome Duck , sternly . 
If you get TOO disagreeable , you'll drive me away before I finish this incantation . 
Trot kept quiet , after the rebuke , and the Duck resumed the quacky muttering . 
Cap'n Bill chuckled a little to himself and remarked to Trot in a whisper For a bird that ain't got anything to do , this Lonesome Duck is makin' consider'ble fuss . 
An' I ain't sure , after all , as toadstools would be worth sittin' on . 
Even Cap'n Bill's weight did not break his toadstool down , and when both were seated , they found that the Lonesome Duck had waddled away and was now at the water's edge . 
Thank you , ever so much ! cried Trot , and the sailor called out Much obliged ! But the Lonesome Duck paid no attention . 
Without even looking in their direction again , the gaudy fowl entered the water and swam gracefully away . 
Of course , Kiki was foolish to have made his soldiers so big , for now they could not get out of the forest . 
Indeed , they could not stir a step , but were imprisoned by the trees . 
Even had they been in the little clearing they could not have made their way out of it , but they were a little beyond the clearing . 
So the monkeys , finding the giants helpless , began climbing up their bodies , and presently all the band were perched on the shoulders of the giants and peering into their faces . 
I'm Ebu , your father , cried one soldier to a monkey who had perched upon his left ear , but some cruel person has enchanted me . 
I'm your Uncle Peeker , said another soldier to another monkey . 
So , very soon all the monkeys knew the truth and were sorry for their friends and relations and angry at the person whoever it was who had transformed them . 
There was a great chattering among the tree tops , and the noise attracted other monkeys , so that the clearing and all the trees around were full of them . 
Rango the Gray Ape , who was the Chief of all the monkey tribes of the forest , heard the uproar and came to see what was wrong with his people . 
And Rango , being wiser and more experienced , at once knew that the strange magician who looked like a mixed up beast was responsible for the transformations . 
He realized that the six giant soldiers were helpless prisoners , because of their size , and knew he was powerless to release them . 
The Wizard did not reply at once , for he was thinking this a good opportunity to win Rango's consent to his taking some monkeys to the Emerald City for Ozma's birthday cake . 
However , I will think it over . 
Then the Wizard went to another part of the clearing and sat on a log and appeared to be in deep thought . 
The Glass Cat had been greatly interested in the Gray Ape's story and was curious to see what the giant soldiers looked like . 
Having satisfied her curiosity , the Glass Cat began to climb down from the tree more slowly . 
Suddenly she discerned the Wizard's black bag hanging from a limb of the tree . 
Then she looked around for the Wizard and seeing him seated upon the stump she hid the black bag among some leaves and then went over to where the Wizard sat . 
Good gracious , Cat ! Why didn't you tell me before ? exclaimed the Wizard . 
For the reason that I found so much excitement here that I forgot Trot and Cap'n Bill . 
What's wrong with them ? asked the Wizard . 
Then the Glass Cat explained how they had gone to get the Magic Flower for Ozma's birthday gift and had been trapped by the magic of the queer island . 
The Wizard was really alarmed , but he shook his head and said sadly I'm afraid I can't help my dear friends , because I've lost my black bag . 
If I find it , will you go to them ? asked the creature . 
Of course , replied the Wizard . 
But I do not think that a Glass Cat with nothing but pink brains can succeed when all the rest of us have failed . 
Don't you admire my pink brains ? demanded the Cat . 
They're pretty , admitted the Wizard , but they're not regular brains , you know , and so we don't expect them to amount to much . 
We've searched everywhere , and the black bag isn't to be found . 
That shows how much you know ! retorted the Glass Cat , scornfully . 
Watch my brains a minute , and see them whirl around . 
The Wizard watched , for he was anxious to regain his black bag , and the pink brains really did whirl around in a remarkable manner . 
Now , come with me , commanded the Glass Cat , and led the Wizard straight to the spot where it had covered the bag with leaves . 
According to my brains , said the creature , your black bag ought to be here . 
Then it scratched at the leaves and uncovered the bag , which the Wizard promptly seized with a cry of delight . 
Now that he had regained his Magic Tools , he felt confident he could rescue Trot and Cap'n Bill . 
Rango the Gray Ape was getting impatient . 
But the Gray Ape shook his head . 
I can't do it , he declared . 
The monkeys would be very lonesome and unhappy in the Emerald City and your people would tease them and throw stones at them , which would cause them to fight and bite . 
The people won't see them till Ozma's birthday dinner , promised the Wizard . 
I'll make them very small about four inches high , and I'll keep them in a pretty cage in my own room , where they will be safe from harm . 
I'll feed them the nicest kind of food , train them to do some clever tricks , and on Ozma's birthday I'll hide the twelve little monkeys inside a cake . 
When Ozma cuts the cake the monkeys will jump out on to the table and do their tricks . 
The next day I will bring them back to the forest and make them big as ever , and they'll have some exciting stories to tell their friends . 
What do you say , Rango ? I say no ! answered the Gray Ape . 
I won't have my monkeys enchanted and made to do tricks for the Oz people . 
Very well , said the Wizard calmly then I'll go . 
Come , Dorothy , he called to the little girl , let's start on our journey . 
Aren't you going to save those six monkeys who are giant soldiers ? asked Rango , anxiously . 
Why should I ? returned the Wizard . 
If you will not do me the favor I ask , you cannot expect me to favor you . 
Wait a minute , said the Gray Ape . 
If you will treat the twelve monkeys nicely and bring them safely back to the forest , I'll let you take them . 
Thank you , replied the Wizard , cheerfully . 
We'll go at once and save those giant soldiers . 
So all the party left the clearing and proceeded to the place where the giants still stood among the trees . 
Hundreds of monkeys , apes , baboons and orangoutangs had gathered round , and their wild chatter could be heard a mile away . 
But the Gray Ape soon hushed the babel of sounds , and the Wizard lost no time in breaking the enchantments . 
First one and then another giant soldier disappeared and became an ordinary monkey again , and the six were shortly returned to their friends in their proper forms . 
Into this dish he poured a powder and set fire to it . 
The thousands of hairy animals who had witnessed this act of magic were much astonished and applauded the Wizard by barking aloud and shaking the limbs of the trees in which they sat . 
Glinda's magic is better than mine , but mine seems good enough to use on ordinary occasions . 
And now , Rango , we will say good bye , and I promise to return your monkeys as happy and safe as they are now . 
The Wizard rode on the back of the Hungry Tiger and carried the cage of monkeys very carefully , so as not to joggle them . 
Dorothy rode on the back of the Cowardly Lion , and the Glass Cat trotted , as before , to show them the way . 
Whenever the Wizard of Oz and Princess Dorothy enter the Forest of Gugu hearafter , they will be as welcome and as safe with us as ever they are in the Emerald City . 
So we'll save time by cutting across the mountains . 
Are you sure you know the way ? asked Dorothy . 
I know all the Land of Oz better than any other living creature knows it , asserted the Glass Cat . 
Go ahead , then , and guide us , said the Wizard . 
We've left our poor friends helpless too long already , and the sooner we rescue them the happier they'll be . 
Are you sure you can get 'em out of their fix ? the little girl inquired . 
I've no doubt of it , the Wizard assured her . 
But I can't tell what sort of magic I must use until I get to the place and discover just how they are enchanted . 
I've heard of that Magic Isle where the Wonderful Flower grows , remarked the Cowardly Lion . 
Long ago , when I used to live in the forests , the beasts told stories about the Isle and how the Magic Flower was placed there to entrap strangers men or beasts . 
Is the Flower really wonderful ? questioned Dorothy . 
I have heard it is the most beautiful plant in the world , answered the Lion . 
That , in my opinion , make the Magic Plant the most wonderful in existence . 
But these are only stories , said the girl . 
What happens to them , then ? asked Dorothy . 
They grow smaller , hour by hour and day by day , and finally disappear entirely . 
Then , said the girl anxiously , we must hurry up , or Cap'n Bill an' Trot will get too small to be comf'table . 
They were proceeding at a rapid pace during this conversation , for the Hungry Tiger and the Cowardly Lion were obliged to move swiftly in order to keep pace with the Glass Cat . 
After leaving the Forest of Gugu they crossed a mountain range , and then a broad plain , after which they reached another forest , much smaller than that where Gugu ruled . 
The Magic Isle is in this forest , said the Glass Cat , but the river is at the other side of the forest . 
There is no path through the trees , but if we keep going east , we will find the river , and then it will be easy to find the Magic Isle . 
Have you ever traveled this way before ? inquired the Wizard . 
Not exactly , admitted the Cat , but I know we shall reach the river if we go east through the forest . 
Lead on , then , said the Wizard . 
We'd better go back and find a path , suggested the Hungry Tiger . 
I'm s'prised at you , said Dorothy , eyeing the Glass Cat severely . 
I'm surprised , myself , replied the Cat . 
But it's a long way around the forest to where the river enters it , and I thought we could save time by going straight through . 
No one can blame you , said the Wizard , and I think , instead of turning back , I can make a path that will allow us to proceed . 
The Wizard laid the little axe on the ground and said in a commanding voice Chop , Little Axe , chop clean and true A path for our feet you must quickly hew . 
The brush seemed to melt away before them and the little axe chopped so fast that their eyes only saw a twinkling of the blade . 
Then , suddenly , the forest was open again , and the little axe , having obeyed its orders , lay still upon the ground . 
The Wizard picked up the magic axe and after carefully wiping it with his silk handkerchief put it away in his black bag . 
Then they went on and in a short time reached the river . 
Beasts and men are terribly clumsy , continued the Duck in an irritated tone , and you've no business on this side of the River , anyway . 
What are you doing here ? We've come to rescue some friends of ours who are stuck fast on the Magic Isle in this river , explained Dorothy . 
I know 'em , said the Duck . 
I've been to see 'em , and they're stuck fast , all right . 
You may as well go back home , for no power can save them . 
This is the Wonderful Wizard of Oz , said Dorothy , pointing to the little man . 
Well , I'm the Lonesome Duck , was the reply , as the fowl strutted up and down to show its feathers to best advantage . 
I'm the great Forest Magician , as any beast can tell you , but even I have no power to destroy the dreadful charm of the Magic Isle . 
Are you lonesome because you're a magician ? inquired Dorothy . 
No I'm lonesome because I have no family and no friends . 
But I like to be lonesome , so please don't offer to be friendly with me . 
Go away , and try not to step on my Diamond Palace . 
Where is it ? asked the girl . 
Dorothy hopped off the lion's back and ran around the bush to see the Diamond Palace of the Lonesome Duck , although the gaudy fowl protested in a series of low quacks . 
The girl found , indeed , a glistening dome formed of clearest diamonds , neatly cemented together , with a doorway at the side just big enough to admit the duck . 
Where did you find so many diamonds ? asked Dorothy , wonderingly . 
Then I built this palace , and I'm positive it's the only Diamond Palace in all the world . 
You're not supposed to understand that , retorted the Lonesome Duck . 
The Diamond Palace is my home , and I like it . 
So I don't care a quack whether YOU like it or not . 
Oh , but I do ! exclaimed Dorothy . 
It's lovely on the outside , but Then she stopped speaking , for the Lonesome Duck had entered his palace through the little door without even saying good bye . 
So Dorothy returned to her friends and they resumed their journey . 
Do you think , Wizard , the Duck was right in saying no magic can rescue Trot and Cap'n Bill ? asked the girl in a worried tone of voice . 
I'll do my best , of course , and no one can do more than his best . 
That didn't entirely relieve Dorothy's anxiety , but she said nothing more , and soon , on turning the bend in the river , they came in sight of the Magic Isle . 
There they are ! exclaimed Dorothy eagerly . 
Yes , I see them , replied the Wizard , nodding . 
They are sitting on two big toadstools . 
That's queer , remarked the Glass Cat . 
There were no toadstools there when I left them . 
What a lovely flower ! cried Dorothy in rapture , as her gaze fell on the Magic Plant . 
Never mind the Flower , just now , advised the Wizard . 
The most important thing is to rescue our friends . 
How are you ? shouted the Wizard , putting his hands to his mouth so they could hear him better across the water . 
We're in hard luck , shouted Cap'n Bill , in reply . 
We're anchored here and can't move till you find a way to cut the hawser . 
What does he mean by that ? asked Dorothy . 
We can't move our feet a bit ! called Trot , speaking as loud as she could . 
Why not ? inquired Dorothy . 
They've got roots on 'em , explained Trot . 
It may take a little time to release them , for the Magic of the Isle is new to me and I shall have to experiment . 
But tell them I'll hurry as fast as I can . 
The Magic of the Wizard He first set up a small silver tripod and placed a gold basin at the top of it . 
Into this basin he put two powders a pink one and a sky blue one and poured over them a yellow liquid from a crystal vial . 
Then , after the smoke had disappeared into air , the Wizard called out to the prisoners Are you free ? Both Trot and Cap'n Bill tried to move their feet and failed . 
No ! they shouted in answer . 
The Wizard rubbed his bald head thoughtfully and then took some other magic tools from the bag . 
First he placed a little black ball in a silver pistol and shot it toward the Magic Isle . 
The ball exploded just over the head of Trot and scattered a thousand sparks over the little girl . 
Oh ! said the Wizard , I guess that will set her free . 
But Trot's feet were still rooted in the ground of the Magic Isle , and the disappointed Wizard had to try something else . 
For almost an hour he worked hard , using almost every magic tool in his black bag , and still Cap'n Bill and Trot were not rescued . 
Dear me ! exclaimed Dorothy , I'm 'fraid we'll have to go to Glinda , after all . 
That made the little Wizard blush , for it shamed him to think that his magic was not equal to that of the Magic Isle . 
I won't give up yet , Dorothy , he said , for I know a lot of wizardry that I haven't yet tried . 
It's like unlocking a door all you need is to find the right key . 
But 'spose you haven't the right key with you . 
suggested Dorothy what then ? Then we'll have to make the key , he answered . 
Just now , when I left them , both Trot and Cap'n Bill were only about half their natural sizes . 
I think , said the Wizard reflectively , that I'd better go to the shore of the island , where I can talk to them and work to better advantage . 
How did Trot and Cap'n Bill get to the island ? On a raft , answered the Glass Cat . 
It's over there now on the beach . 
I suppose you're not strong enough to bring the raft to this side , are you ? No I couldn't move it an inch , said the Cat . 
I'll try to get it for you , volunteered the Cowardly Lion . 
I'm dreadfully scared for fear the Magic Isle will capture me , too but I'll try to get the raft and bring it to this side for you . 
Thank you , my friend , said the Wizard . 
So the Lion plunged into the river and swam with powerful strokes across to where the raft was beached upon the island . 
Good ! exclaimed the little man , well pleased . 
May I go across with you ? asked Dorothy . 
If you'll take care not to leave the raft or step foot on the island , you'll be quite safe , he decided . 
So the Wizard told the Hungry Tiger and the Cowardly Lion to guard the cage of monkeys until he returned , and then he and Dorothy got upon the raft . 
Dorothy was shocked to see how small the prisoners had become , and Trot said to her friends If you can't save us soon , there'll be nothing left of us . 
Be patient , my dear , counseled the Wizard , and took the little axe from his black bag . 
What are you going to do with that ? asked Cap'n Bill . 
Don't ! shouted the sailor in alarm . 
Don't do it ! Those roots are all flesh roots , and our bodies are feeding 'em while they're growing into the ground . 
To cut off the roots , said Trot , would be like cutting off our fingers and toes . 
The Wizard put the little axe back in the black bag and took out a pair of silver pincers . 
Grow grow grow ! he said to the pincers , and at once they grew and extended until they reached from the raft to the prisoners . 
What are you going to do now ? demanded Cap'n Bill , fearfully eyeing the pincers . 
This magic tool will pull you up , roots and all , and land you on this raft , declared the Wizard . 
Don't do it ! pleaded the sailor , with a shudder . 
It would hurt us awfully . 
It would be just like pulling teeth to pull us up by the roots , explained Trot . 
Grow small ! said the Wizard to the pincers , and at once they became small and he threw them into the black bag . 
I guess , friends , it's all up with us , this time , remarked Cap'n Bill , with a dismal sigh . 
Please tell Ozma , Dorothy , said Trot , that we got into trouble trying to get her a nice birthday present . 
The Magic Flower is lovely and wonderful , but it's just a lure to catch folks on this dreadful island and then destroy them . 
Dorothy and the Bumble Bees Dorothy was greatly distressed and had hard work to keep the tears from her eyes . 
Is that all you can do , Wizard ? she asked the little man . 
It's all I can think of just now , he replied sadly . 
But I intend to keep on thinking as long as long well , as long as thinking will do any good . 
Suddenly Dorothy said Wizard , I've thought of something ! What have you thought of ? he asked , looking at the little girl with interest . 
Can you remember the Magic Word that transforms people ? she asked . 
Of course , said he . 
Then you can transform Trot and Cap'n Bill into birds or bumblebees , and they can fly away to the other shore . 
When they're there , you can transform 'em into their reg'lar shapes again ! Can you do that , Wizard ? asked Cap'n Bill , eagerly . 
Roots an' all ? inquired Trot . 
All right do it ! cried the sailor man . 
Hooray ! shouted Dorothy in delight they're saved ! I guess they are , agreed the Wizard , equally delighted . 
The bees hovered over the raft an instant and then flew across the river to where the Lion and the Tiger waited . 
The Wizard picked up the paddle and paddled the raft across as fast as he could . 
Yes there were two of them . 
Two bees ? said the Hungry Tiger , yawning . 
Why , I ate one of them and the Cowardly Lion ate the other . 
Goodness gracious ! cried Dorothy horrified . 
It was little enough for our lunch , remarked the Tiger , but the bees were the only things we could find . 
How dreadful ! wailed Dorothy , wringing her hands in despair . 
You've eaten Trot and Cap'n Bill . 
But just then she heard a buzzing overhead and two bees alighted on her shoulder . 
Here we are , said a small voice in her ear . 
And I'm Cap'n Bill , said the other bee . 
Do it now , Wizard ! advised Dorothy . 
They're so small that you never can tell what might happen to 'em . 
So the Wizard gave the command and pronounced the Magic Word , and in the instant Trot and Cap'n Bill stood beside them as natural as before they had met their fearful adventure . 
For they were no longer small in size , because the Wizard had transformed them from bumblebees into the shapes and sizes that nature had formerly given them . 
The ugly roots on their feet had disappeared with the transformation . 
While Dorothy was hugging Trot , and Trot was softly crying because she was so happy , the Wizard shook hands with Cap'n Bill and congratulated him on his escape . 
The old sailor man was so pleased that he also shook the Lion's paw and took off his hat and bowed politely to the cage of monkeys . 
Then Cap'n Bill did a curious thing . 
He went to a big tree and , taking out his knife , cut away a big , broad piece of thick bark . 
What's that for ? inquired the Wizard . 
I hate to be stumped , replied the sailor man so I'm goin' back to that island . 
And get enchanted again ? exclaimed Trot , with evident disapproval . 
No this time I'll dodge the magic of the island . 
I noticed that my wooden leg didn't get stuck , or take root , an' neither did the glass feet of the Glass Cat . 
It's only a thing that's made of meat like man an' beasts that the magic can hold an' root to the ground . 
Our shoes are leather , an' leather comes from a beast's hide . 
Our stockin's are wool , an' wool comes from a sheep's back . 
So , when we walked on the Magic Isle , our feet took root there an' held us fast . 
But not my wooden leg . 
So now I'll put a wooden bottom on my other foot an' the magic can't stop me . 
But why do you wish to go back to the island ? asked Dorothy . 
Didn't you see the Magic Flower in the gold flower pot ? returned Cap'n Bill . 
Of course I saw it , and it's lovely and wonderful . 
I suppose I could , agreed the Wizard . 
Anyhow , if you wish to try it , Cap'n Bill , go ahead and we'll stand by and watch what happens . 
So the sailor man got upon the raft again and paddled over to the Magic Isle , landing as close to the golden flower pot as he could . 
They watched him walk across the land , put both arms around the flower pot and lift it easily from its place . 
Then he carried it to the raft and set it down very gently . 
During the time the sailor was paddling across the river to where his friends awaited him , seven different varieties of flowers bloomed in succession on the plant . 
I guess the Magician who put it on the island never thought that any one would carry it off , said Dorothy . 
He figured that only men would want the plant , and any man who went upon the island to get it would be caught by the enchantment , added the Wizard . 
After this , remarked Trot , no one will care to go on the island , so it won't be a trap any more . 
It'll s'prise ev'rybody in the Em'rald City , Trot asserted in glee , and it'll be Ozma's present from Cap'n Bill and me . 
I think I ought to have a little credit , objected the Glass Cat . 
I discovered the thing , and led you to it , and brought the Wizard here to save you when you got caught . 
That's true , admitted Trot , and I'll tell Ozma the whole story , so she'll know how good you've been . 
The Monkeys Have Trouble Now , said the Wizard , we must start for home . 
But how are we going to carry that big gold flower pot ? Cap'n Bill can't lug it all the way , that's certain . 
No , acknowledged the sailor man it's pretty heavy . 
I could carry it for a little while , but I'd have to stop to rest every few minutes . 
Couldn't we put it on your back ? Dorothy asked the Cowardly Lion , with a good natured yawn . 
I don't object to carrying it , if you can fasten it on , answered the Lion . 
If it falls off , said Trot , it might get smashed an' be ruined . 
I'll fix it , promised Cap'n Bill . 
I'll make a flat board out of one of these tree trunks , an' tie the board on the lion's back , an' set the flower pot on the board . 
He set to work at once to do this , but as he only had his big knife for a tool his progress was slow . 
And at once the Little Saw began to move and it sawed the log so fast that those who watched it work were astonished . 
That beats whittlin' ! exclaimed Cap'n Bill , admiringly . 
It's the only saw of its kind in the world and if there were more like it , it wouldn't be so wonderful . 
They now tied the board on the Lion's back , flat side up , and Cap'n Bill carefully placed the Magic Flower on the board . 
For fear o' accidents , he said , I'll walk beside the Lion and hold onto the flower pot . 
Trot and Dorothy could both ride on the back of the Hungry Tiger , and between them they carried the cage of monkeys . 
The Cat was sour tempered and grumpy , at first , but before they had journeyed far , the crystal creature had discovered a fine amusement . 
That made the monkeys scream , and their screams pleased the Glass Cat immensely . 
They scolded the Cat angrily and shook the bars of their cage , but they could not get out and the Cat only laughed at them . 
By means of his magic the Wizard created three tents , pitched in a row on the grass and nicely fitted with all that was needful for the comfort of his comrades . 
The middle tent was for Dorothy and Trot , and had in it two cosy white beds and two chairs . 
Outside the tents the Wizard made a fire and placed over it a magic kettle from which he presently drew all sorts of nice things for their supper , smoking hot . 
After they had eaten and talked together for a while under the twinkling stars , they all went to bed and the people were soon asleep . 
The Lion and the Tiger had almost fallen asleep , too , when they were roused by the screams of the monkeys , for the Glass Cat was pulling their tails again . 
Annoyed by the uproar , the Hungry Tiger cried Stop that racket ! and getting sight of the Glass Cat , he raised his big paw and struck at the creature . 
The cat was quick enough to dodge the blow , but the claws of the Hungry Tiger scraped the monkey's cage and bent two of the bars . 
Then the Tiger lay down again to sleep , but the monkeys soon discovered that the bending of the bars would allow them to squeeze through . 
They did not leave the cage , however , but after whispering together they let their tails stick out and all remained quiet . 
Presently the Glass Cat stole near the cage again and gave a yank to one of the tails . 
Then they forced her out of the tent and down to the banks of the stream . 
She was no longer transparent and so thick was the mud upon her that no one could see her pink brains or her ruby heart . 
In this condition they led the pussy back to the tent and then got inside their cage again . 
By morning the mud had dried hard on the Glass Cat and it was a dull blue color throughout . 
Dorothy and Trot were horrified , but the Wizard shook his head and said it served the Glass Cat right for teasing the monkeys . 
Not just yet , answered the Wizard . 
The Cat deserves to be punished , so I think I'll leave that blue mud which is as bad as paint upon her body until she gets to the Emerald City . 
As soon as she could speak the Glass Cat asked indignantly Aren't you going to punish those monkeys for playing such a trick on me ? No , answered the Wizard . 
You played a trick on them by pulling their tails , so this is only tit for tat , and I'm glad the monkeys had their revenge . 
He wouldn't allow the Glass Cat to go near the water , to wash herself , but made her follow them when they resumed their journey toward the Emerald City . 
This is only part of your punishment , said the Wizard , severely . 
That suggestion hurt the Glass Cat more than anything else . 
For several hours the Glass Cat walked along very meekly , but toward noon it seized an opportunity when no one was looking and darted away through the long grass . 
It remembered that there was a tiny lake of pure water near by , and to this lake the Cat sped as fast as it could go . 
The others never missed her until they stopped for lunch , and then it was too late to hunt for her . 
I s'pect she's gone somewhere to clean herself , said Dorothy . 
Never mind , replied the Wizard . 
Perhaps this glass creature has been punished enough , and we must not forget she saved both Trot and Cap'n Bill . 
After first leading 'em onto an enchanted island , added Dorothy . 
But I think , as you do , that the Glass Cat is punished enough , and p'raps she won't try to pull the monkeys' tails again . 
The Glass Cat did not rejoin the party of travelers . 
She was still resentful , and they moved too slowly to suit her , besides . 
When they arrived at the Royal Palace , one of the first things they saw was the Glass Cat curled up on a bench as bright and clean and transparent as ever . 
But she pretended not to notice them , and they passed her by without remark . 
This College is located in the Munchkin Country , but not far from the Emerald City . 
One of these tablets , eaten by a scholar after breakfast , would instantly enable him to understand arithmetic or algebra or any other branch of mathematics . 
Another tablet eaten after lunch gave a student a complete knowledge of geography . 
Another tablet made it possible for the eater to spell the most difficult words , and still another enabled him to write a beautiful hand . 
It was no fun at all to swallow a tablet , with a glass of water , and call it a dinner so they refused to eat the Square Meal Tablets . 
Professor Wogglebug insisted , and the result was that the Senior Class seized the learned Professor one day and threw him into the river clothes and all . 
So Trot and Dorothy and Cap'n Bill and the Wizard were all delighted at the successful end of their adventure . 
Trot watered the Magic Flower every day and allowed no one in her room to see the beautiful blossoms except her friends , Betsy Bobbin and Dorothy . 
The Wizard treated them with great kindness and gentleness and gave them the food that monkeys love best , so they promised to do their best on the great occasion of Ozma's birthday . 
Ozma's Birthday Party It seems odd that a fairy should have a birthday , for fairies , they say , were born at the beginning of time and live forever . 
Yet , on the other hand , it would be a shame to deprive a fairy , who has so many other good things , of the delights of a birthday . 
So we need not wonder that the fairies keep their birthdays just as other folks do , and consider them occasions for feasting and rejoicing . 
Knowing she was fair in her decisions , the Oz people never murmured at her judgments , but agreed , if Ozma decided against them , she was right and they wrong . 
Ozma's palace stood in the center of a delightful and extensive garden , where splendid trees and flowering shrubs and statuary and fountains abounded . 
One could walk for hours in this fascinating park and see something interesting at every step . 
But there were also fountains that were delightfully perfumed , and fountains of delicious nectar , cool and richly flavored , where all were welcome to refresh themselves . 
Around the palace grounds was a great wall , thickly encrusted with glittering emeralds , but the gates stood open and no one was forbidden entrance . 
Not all the people could go to congratulate their Ruler , but all could celebrate her birthday , in one way or another , however far distant from her palace they might be . 
It was Ozma's custom on her birthday to give a grand feast at the palace , to which all her closest friends were invited . 
When the guests arrived , they placed their gifts on this table and then found their places at the banquet table . 
And , after the guests were all placed , the animals entered in a solemn procession and were placed at their table by Jellia Jamb . 
At Ozma's right sat the famous Scarecrow of Oz , whose straw stuffed body was not beautiful , but whose happy nature and shrewd wit had made him a general favorite . 
On the left of the Ruler was placed the Tin Woodman , whose metal body had been brightly polished for this event . 
The Tin Woodman was the Emperor of the Winkie Country and one of the most important persons in Oz . 
Then came Aunt Em and Uncle Henry , Dorothy's own relations , two kindly old people who had a cozy home in the Emerald City and were very happy and contented there . 
Then Betsy Bobbin was seated , and next to her the droll and delightful Shaggy Man , who was a favorite wherever he went . 
On the other side of the table , opposite the Tin Woodman was placed Trot , and next to her , Cap'n Bill . 
Then was seated Button Bright and Ojo the Lucky , and Dr . 
Pipt and his good wife Margalot , and the astonishing Frogman , who had come from the Yip country to be present at Ozma's birthday feast . 
On Glinda's right was the Little Wizard of Oz , who owed to Glinda all of the magical arts he knew . 
Then came Jinjur , a pretty girl farmer of whom Ozma and Dorothy were quite fond . 
The adjoining seat was occupied by the Tin Soldier , and next to him was Professor H. M. Wogglebug , T. E. , of the Royal Athletic College . 
On Glinda's left was placed the jolly Patchwork Girl , who was a little afraid of the Sorceress and so was likely to behave herself pretty well . 
Ozma wanted to look , too , to see what all were staring at , but she controlled her curiosity because it was not proper that she should yet view her birthday gifts . 
All of these had good appetites except the Sawhorse and the Glass Cat , and each was given a plentiful supply of the food it liked best . 
Finally , when the banquet was nearly over and the ice cream was to be served , four servants entered bearing a huge cake , all frosted and decorated with candy flowers . 
Jellia Jamb brought a large golden knife with a jeweled handle , and Ozma stood up in her place and attempted to cut the cake . 
Dorothy was delighted with the success of her Surprise Cake , and after the monkeys had finished their performance , the banquet came to an end . 
The Magic Flower of course attracted her attention first , and Trot had to tell her the whole story of their adventures in getting it . 
Ozma thanked them all , and said she would place the Magic Flower in her boudoir where she might enjoy its beauty and fragrance continually . 
So they sat down on a marble bench near to the Fountain of the Water of Oblivion , and between them Dorothy and the Wizard related their adventures . 
I was dreadfully fussy while I was a woolly lamb , said Dorothy , for it didn't feel good , a bit . 
And I wasn't quite sure , you know , that I'd ever get to be a girl again . 
You might have been a woolly lamb yet , if I hadn't happened to have discovered that Magic Transformation Word , declared the Wizard . 
But what became of the walnut and the hickory nut into which you transformed those dreadful beast magicians ? inquired Ozma . 
Why , I'd almost forgotten them , was the reply but I believe they are still here in my pocket . 
Then he searched in his pockets and brought out the two nuts and showed them to her . 
It isn't right to leave any living creatures in such helpless forms , said she . 
I think , Wizard , you ought to transform them into their natural shapes again . 
But I don't know what their natural shapes are , he objected , for of course the forms of mixed animals which they had assumed were not natural to them . 
And you must not forget , Ozma , that their natures were cruel and mischievous , so if I bring them back to life they might cause us a great deal of trouble . 
Nevertheless , said the Ruler of Oz , we must free them from their present enchantments . 
I am not so sure of that , protested the Wizard , with a shake of his bald head . 
The one bit of magic I robbed them of which was the Word of Transformation is so simple , yet so powerful , that neither Glinda nor I can equal it . 
It isn't all in the word , you know , it's the way the word is pronounced . 
So if the two strange magicians have other magic of the same sort , they might prove very dangerous to us , if we liberated them . 
I've an idea ! exclaimed Dorothy . 
I'm no wizard , and no fairy , but if you do as I say , we needn't fear these people at all . 
What is your thought , my dear ? asked Ozma . 
Well , replied the girl , here is this Fountain of the Water of Oblivion , and that's what put the notion into my head . 
Then they'll drink the water and forget all the magic they ever knew and everything else , too . 
That's not a bad idea , said the Wizard , looking at Dorothy approvingly . 
It's a very GOOD idea , declared Ozma . 
Run for a cup , Dorothy . 
So Dorothy ran to get a cup , and while she was gone the Wizard said I don't know whether the real forms of these magicians are those of men or beasts . 
If they're beasts , they would not drink from a cup but might attack us at once and drink afterward . 
So it might be safer for us to have the Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger here to protect us if necessary . 
Ozma drew out a silver whistle which was attached to a slender gold chain and blew upon the whistle two shrill blasts . 
Ozma explained to them what the Wizard was about to do , and told them to keep quiet unless danger threatened . 
So the two powerful guardians of the Ruler of Oz crouched beside the fountain and waited . 
Dorothy returned and set the cup on the edge of the fountain . 
He seemed bewildered , at first , as if trying to remember what had happened to him and why he was in this strange place . 
But he was facing the fountain , and the bubbling water reminded him that he was thirsty . 
He was now no longer thirsty , but he felt more bewildered than ever , for now he could remember nothing at all not even his name or where he came from . 
Kiki Aru did not know who they were , but he thought Ozma very lovely and Dorothy very pleasant . 
I do not seem to know anything , he replied . 
It's very curious , remarked the Wizard . 
He wears the dress of the Munchkins , so he must have lived at one time in the Munchkin Country . 
Of course the boy can tell us nothing of his history or his family , for he has forgotten all that he ever knew . 
He seems a nice boy , now that all the wickedness has gone from him , said Ozma . 
So we will keep him here with us and teach him our ways to be true and considerate of others . 
Why , in that case , it's lucky for him he drank the Water of Oblivion , said Dorothy . 
It is indeed , agreed the Wizard . 
But the remarkable thing , to me , is how such a young boy ever learned the secret of the Magic Word of Transformation . 
Well , we will soon know who the other is , suggested Ozma . 
He may prove to be another Munchkin boy . 
He drank the water , threw the cup on the ground and said fiercely And now and now and His voice grew gentle . 
He rubbed his forehead with a puzzled air and stroked his long beard . 
What was I going to say ? he asked , pleadingly . 
Don't you remember ? said the Wizard . 
Who ARE you ? asked Dorothy . 
I I'm sure I don't know , he stammered . 
Don't you know who WE are , either ? questioned the girl . 
I haven't the slightest idea , said the Nome . 
Tell us who this Munchkin boy is , suggested Ozma . 
Ruggedo looked at the boy and shook his head . 
He's a stranger to me . 
I I'm a stranger to myself , he said . 
Then he patted the Lion's head and murmured , Good doggie ! and the Lion growled indignantly . 
What shall we do with him ? asked the Wizard , perplexed . 
Once before the wicked old Nome came here to conquer us , and then , as now , he drank of the Water of Oblivion and became harmless . 
But we sent him back to the Nome Kingdom , where he soon learned the old evil ways again . 
For that reason , said Ozma , we must find a place for him in the Land of Oz , and keep him here . 
For here he can learn no evil and will always be as innocent of guile as our own people . 
And so the wandering ex King of the Nomes found a new home , a peaceful and happy home , where he was quite content and passed his days in innocent enjoyment . 
