Maid Marian by Thomas Love Peacock Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software MAID MARIAN CHAPTER I Now come ye for peace here , or come ye for war ? SCOTT . 
The bride , with her father and attendant maidens , entered the chapel but the earl had not arrived . 
The baron was amazed , and the bridemaidens were disconcerted . 
Matilda feared that some evil had befallen her lover , but felt no diminution of her confidence in his honour and love . 
It was then no time to ask questions , for the organ was in full peal , and the choristers were in full voice . 
The song of the choristers died away in a shake of demisemiquavers , contrary to all the rules of psalmody . 
The voice of the abbot subsided into silence through a descending scale of long drawn melody , like the sound of the ebbing sea to the explorers of a cave . 
In a few moments all was silence , interrupted only by the iron tread of the armed intruders , as it rang on the marble floor and echoed from the vaulted aisles . 
His yeomen ranged themselves at his side , and stood with their swords drawn , still and prepared , like men determined to die in his defence . 
The soldiers , confident in superiority of numbers , paused . 
The abbot took advantage of the pause to introduce a word of exhortation . 
Lord Fitzwater , to your care , for the present , I commit your daughter . 
Nay , sweet Matilda , part we must for a while but we will soon meet under brighter skies , and be this the seal of our faith . 
The earl , with a sign to his followers , made a sudden charge on the soldiers , with the intention of cutting his way through . 
The soldiers were prepared for such an occurrence , and a desperate skirmish succeeded . 
Matilda seemed disposed to fly again to her lover , but the baron forced her from the chapel . 
One tall friar alone was untouched by the panic of his brethren , and stood steadfastly watching the combat with his arms a kembo , the colossal emblem of an unarmed neutrality . 
The peaceful brethren , unused to the tumult of war , had undergone , from fear and discomposure , an exhaustion of animal spirits that required extraordinary refection . 
During the repast , they interrogated Sir Ralph Montfaucon , the leader of the soldiers , respecting the nature of the earl's offence . 
A complication of offences , replied Sir Ralph , superinduced on the original basis of forest treason . 
And the knight helped himself to half a pasty . 
A heinous offender , said a little round oily friar , appropriating the portion of pasty which Sir Ralph had left . 
The earl is a worthy peer , said the tall friar whom we have already mentioned in the chapel scene , and the best marksman in England . 
Why this is flat treason , brother Michael , said the little round friar , to call an attainted traitor a worthy peer . 
I pledge you , said brother Michael . 
The little friar smiled and filled his cup . 
He will draw the long bow , pursued brother Michael , with any bold yeoman among them all . 
So much the worse for the law then , said brother Michael . 
The law will have a heavier miss of him than he will have of the law . 
He will strike as much venison as ever , and more of other game . 
I know what I say but basta Let us drink . 
What other game ? said the little friar . 
I hope he won't poach among our partridges . 
, and drag your trout stream for you on a Thursday evening . 
Monstrous ! and starve us on fast day , said the little friar . 
But that is not the game I mean , said brother Michael . 
If the law takes his rents and beeves without his consent , he must take beeves and rents where he can get them without the consent of the law . 
This is the lex talionis . 
Truly , said Sir Ralph , I am sorry for the damsel she seems fond of this wild runagate . 
A mad girl , a mad girl , said the little friar . 
How a mad girl ? said brother Michael . 
Call you it pickling ? Truly it pickled me . 
My life was saved by miracle . 
By canary , said brother Michael . 
Canary is the only life preserver , the true aurum potabile , the universal panacea for all diseases , thirst , and short life . 
Your life was saved by canary . 
She can fence , said the little friar , and draw the long bow , and play at singlestick and quarter staff . 
You incite me , said Sir Ralph , to view her more nearly . 
That madcap earl found me other employment than to remark her in the chapel . 
The earl is a worthy peer , said brother Michael he is worth any fourteen earls on this side Trent , and any seven on the other . 
His mettle will be tried , said Sir Ralph . 
There is many a courtier will swear to King Henry to bring him in dead or alive . 
They must look to the brambles then , said brother Michael . 
Plague on your lungs , son Michael , said the abbot this is your old coil always roaring in your cups . 
I know what I say , said brother Michael there is often more sense in an old song than in a new homily . 
Tall friar , said Sir Ralph , either you shoot the shafts of your merriment at random , or you know more of the earl's designs than beseems your frock . 
Let my frock , said brother Michael , answer for its own sins . 
It is worn past covering mine . 
It is too weak for a shield , too transparent for a screen , too thin for a shelter , too light for gravity , and too threadbare for a jest . 
The wearer would be naught indeed who should misbeseem such a wedding garment . 
CHAPTER II Vray moyne si oncques en feut depuis que le monde moynant moyna de moynerie . 
swore by Saint Botolph to make him rue his sport , and , having caused him to be duly and formally accused , summoned him to London to answer the charge . 
The earl , deeming himself safer among his own vassals than among king Henry's courtiers , took no notice of the mandate . 
King Henry sent a force to bring him , vi et armis , to court . 
The earl made a resolute resistance , and put the king's force to flight under a shower of arrows an act which the courtiers declared to be treason . 
Brother Michael and the little fat friar proposed to be his guides . 
The proposal was courteously accepted , and they set out together , leaving Sir Ralph's followers at the abbey . 
Spoken , said brother Michael , with a sound Catholic conscience . 
My little brother here is most profound in the matter of trout . 
He has marked , learned , and inwardly digested the subject , twice a week at least for five and thirty years . 
I yield to him in this . 
My strong points are venison and canary . 
The good qualities of a trout , said the little friar , are firmness and redness the redness , indeed , being the visible sign of all other virtues . 
Now , said the little friar , as is the firmness so is the redness , and as is the redness so is the shyness . 
Marry why ? said brother Michael . 
The solution is not physical natural , but physical historical , or natural superinductive . 
She knelt by him his wounds to bind , She washed them with many a tear And shouts rose fast upon the wind , Which told that the foe was near . 
Around his neck she wound her arms , And she kissed his lips so pale And evermore the war's alarms Came louder up the vale . 
She drew him to the lake's steep side , Where the red heath fringed the shore She plunged with him beneath the tide , And they were seen no more . 
Their true blood mingled in Kingslea Mere , That to mingle on earth was fain And the trout that swims in that crystal clear Is tinged with the crimson stain . 
Thus you see how good comes of evil , and how a holy friar may fare better on fast day for the violent death of two lovers two hundred years ago . 
And why is the trout shyer for that ? asked Sir Ralph . 
Do you not see ? said brother Michael . 
The virtues of both lovers diffuse themselves through the lake . 
But yonder are the towers of Arlingford . 
Why , what is in the wind now , brother Peter ? said Friar Michael . 
The lady Matilda , said the little friar , can draw the long bow . 
She must bear no goodwill to Sir Ralph and if she should espy him from her tower , she may testify her recognition with a cloth yard shaft . 
She is not so infallible a markswoman , but that she might shoot at a crow and kill a pigeon . 
She might peradventure miss the knight , and hit me , who never did her any harm . 
Tut , tut , man , said brother Michael , there is no such fear . 
Mass , said the little friar , but there is such a fear , and very strong too . 
You who have it not may keep your way , and I who have it shall take mine . 
I am not just now in the vein for being picked off at a long shot . 
And saying these words , he spurred up his four footed better half , and galloped off as nimbly as if he had had an arrow singing behind him . 
Is this lady Matilda , then , so very terrible a damsel ? said Sir Ralph to brother Michael . 
By no means , said the friar . 
She has certainly a high spirit but it is the wing of the eagle , without his beak or his claw . 
From the warmth of your panegyric , ghostly father , said the knight , I should almost suspect you were in love with the damsel . 
So I am , said the friar , and I care not who knows it but all in the way of honesty , master soldier . 
I am , as it were , her spiritual lover and were she a damsel errant , I would be her ghostly esquire , her friar militant . 
I would buckle me in armour of proof , and the devil might thresh me black with an iron flail , before I would knock under in her cause . 
Though they be not yet one canonically , thanks to your soldiership , the earl is her liege lord , and she is his liege lady . 
, that a traveller has need of some one who knows the way , or the odds go hard against him that he will ever see the face of Saint Peter . 
But there must surely be some reason , said Sir Ralph , for father Peter's apprehension . 
None , said brother Michael , but the apprehension itself fear being its own father , and most prolific in self propagation . 
The lady did , it is true , once signalize her displeasure against our little brother , for reprimanding her in that she would go hunting a mornings instead of attending matins . 
I thought he had forgotten it but let that pass . 
They are twin plants of the forest , and are identified with its growth . 
For the slender beech and the sapling oak , That grow by the shadowy rill , You may cut down both at a single stroke , You may cut down which you will . 
But this you must know , that as long as they grow Whatever change may be , You never can teach either oak or beech To be aught but a greenwood tree . 
CHAPTER III Inflamed wrath in glowing breast . 
He was enraged with the earl for having brought himself into such a dilemma without his privily and he was no less enraged with the king's men for their very unseasonable intrusion . 
He had therefore contented himself with forcing away his daughter from the scene of action . 
The baron immediately proceeded to require in his daughter's mind the same summary revolution that had taken place in his own , and considered himself exceedingly ill used by her non compliance . 
The baron at the same time offered one to Sir Ralph , with the look of a man in whom habitual hospitality and courtesy were struggling with the ebullitions of natural anger . 
I am very much obliged to you , sir , said the baron very exceedingly obliged . 
You misconceive the knight , noble baron , said the friar . 
He urges not his reason in the shape of a preconceived intent , but in that of a subsequent extenuation . 
True , he has done the lady Matilda great wrong How , great wrong ? said the baron . 
But he has , said the baron , he has done both , and I will maintain it with my glove . 
It shall not need , said Sir Ralph I will concede any thing in honour . 
And I , said the baron , will concede nothing in honour I will concede nothing in honour to any man . 
Neither will I , Lord Fitzwater , said Sir Ralph , in that sense but hear me . 
I was commissioned by the king to apprehend the Earl of Huntingdon . 
I brought with me a party of soldiers , picked and tried men , knowing that he would not lightly yield . 
That would I , said the friar for I have undertaken to make her renounce the devil . 
She shall not renounce the devil , said the baron , unless I please . 
You are very ready with your undertakings . 
Are you a match for the devil , and no match for a man ? My warfare , said the friar , is not of this world . 
I am militant not against man , but the devil , who goes about seeking what he may devour . 
Oh ! does he so ? said the baron then I take it that makes you look for him so often in my buttery . 
Will you cast out the devil whose name is Legion , when you cannot cast out the imp whose name is Love ? Marriages , said the friar , are made in heaven . 
Love is God's work , and therewith I meddle not . 
God's work , indeed ! said the baron , when the ceremony was cut short in the church . 
Could men have put them asunder , if God had joined them together ? And the earl is now no earl , but plain Robert Fitz Ooth therefore , I'll none of him . 
He may atone , said the friar , and the king may mollify . 
The earl is a worthy peer , and the king is a courteous king . 
He cannot atone , said Sir Ralph . 
He has killed the king's men and if the baron should aid and abet , he will lose his castle and land . 
Will I ? said the baron not while I have a drop of blood in my veins . 
He that comes to take them shall first serve me as the friar serves my flasks of canary he shall drain me dry as hay . 
My butler , friar there is that may move your sympathy . 
Friar , the earl no earl shall come no more to my daughter . 
Very good , said the friar . 
It is not very good , said the baron , for I cannot get her to say so . 
I fear , said Sir Ralph , the young lady must be much distressed and discomposed . 
Not a whit , sir , said the baron . 
She is , as usual , in a most provoking imperturbability , and contradicts me so smilingly that it would enrage you to see her . 
I had hoped , said Sir Ralph , that I might have seen her , to make my excuse in person for the hard necessity of my duty . 
He had scarcely spoken , when the door opened , and the lady made her appearance . 
CHAPTER IV Are you mad , or what are you , that you squeak out your catches without mitigation or remorse of voice ? Twelfth Night . 
I am not at breakfast , said the baron . 
I have been at supper my last night's supper for I had none . 
I am sorry , said Matilda , you should have gone to bed supperless . 
A hunting ! said the baron . 
How do I know that ? said the baron . 
What surety have I of that ? Here is the friar , said Matilda . 
Not he , said the baron he will undertake nothing but where the devil is a party concerned . 
Yes , I will , said the friar I will undertake any thing for the lady Matilda . 
No matter for that , said the baron she shall not go hunting to day . 
Why , father , said Matilda , if you coop me up here in this odious castle , I shall pine and die like a lonely swan on a pool . 
No , said the baron , the lonely swan does not die on the pool . 
If there be a river at hand , she flies to the river , and finds her a mate and so shall not you . 
But , said Matilda , you may send with me any , or as many , of your grooms as you will . 
My grooms , said the baron , are all false knaves . 
There is not a rascal among them but loves you better than me . 
Villains that I feed and clothe . 
Surely , said Matilda , it is not villany to love me if it be , I should be sorry my father were an honest man . 
The baron relaxed his muscles into a smile . 
Or my lover either , added Matilda . 
The baron looked grim again . 
For your lover , said the baron , you may give God thanks of him . 
He is as arrant a knave as ever poached . 
What , for hunting the king's deer ? said Matilda . 
The man is the grape stone , said the baron , and the pulp of the melon . 
The house and land are the true substantial fruit , and all that give him savour and value . 
Vert and venison ! vert and venison ! exclaimed the baron . 
My visit is one of courtesy and excuse , not of menace and authority . 
There it is , said the baron every one takes a pleasure in contradicting me . 
Oh ! I cry you mercy , sir knight , said Matilda I did not mark you before . 
I am your debtor for no slight favour , and so is my liege lord . 
Her liege lord ! exclaimed the baron , taking large strides across the chamber . 
Pardon me , gentle lady , said Sir Ralph . 
Had I known you before yesterday , I would have cut off my right hand ere it should have been raised to do you displeasure . 
Oh sir , said Matilda , a good man may be forced on an ill office but I can distinguish the man from his duty . 
Well , father , added Matilda , I must go to the woods . 
Must you ? said the baron I say you must not . 
But I am going , said Matilda But I will have up the drawbridge , said the baron . 
But I will swim the moat , said Matilda . 
But I will secure the gates , said the baron . 
But I will leap from the battlement , said Matilda . 
But I will lock you in an upper chamber , said the baron . 
But I will shred the tapestry , said Matilda , and let myself down . 
But I will lock you in a turret , said the baron , where you shall only see light through a loophole . 
The hunter awakes at the peep of the dawn , But the lair it is empty , the deer it is gone , And the hunter knows not where . 
Matilda and the friar then sang together , Then follow , oh follow ! the hounds do cry The red sun flames in the eastern sky The stag bounds over the hollow . 
Then , too , he was always delighted to hear her sing , though he was not at all pleased in this instance with the subject of her song . 
Still he would have endured the subject for the sake of the melody of the treble , but his mind was not sufficiently attuned to unison to relish the harmony of the bass . 
Little I recked of matin bell , But drowned its toll with my clanging horn And the only beads I loved to tell Were the beads of dew on the spangled thorn . 
And then she and the friar sang the four lines together , and rang the changes upon them alternately . 
Little I reck of matin bell , sang the friar . 
A precious friar , said the baron . 
But drown its toll with my clanging horn , sang Matilda . 
More shame for you , said the baron . 
And the only beads I love to tell Are the beads of dew on the spangled thorn , sang Matilda and the friar together . 
Penitent and confessor , said the baron a hopeful pair truly . 
Are you mad ? said the baron . 
The baron's pent up wrath had accumulated like the waters above the dam of an overshot mill . 
Nay father , said Matilda , taking the baron's hand , do not harm the friar he means not to offend you . 
My gaiety never before displeased you . 
Least of all should it do so now , when I have need of all my spirits to outweigh the severity of my fortune . 
As she spoke the last words , tears started into her eyes , which , as if ashamed of the involuntary betraying of her feelings , she turned away to conceal . 
The baron was subdued at once . 
Then turning to Sir Ralph , he said , You see how it is , sir knight . 
Matilda is my daughter but she has me in leading strings , that is the truth of it . 
CHAPTER V 'T is true , no lover has that power To enforce a desperate amour As he that has two strings to his bow And burns for love and money too . 
They had therefore naturally calculated , as far as their wild spirits calculated at all , on the same effects from the same causes . 
But the circumstances of the preceding day had made an essential alteration in the case . 
The baron was therefore convinced that the earl's outlawry was infallible , and that Matilda must either renounce her lover , or become with him an outlaw and a fugitive . 
Roasting by a slow fire for the love of God . 
Of these lines all that is not in italics belongs to Mr. Wordsworth Resolution and Independence . 
The friar's spirits were not to be marred by such a little incident . 
The friar , having stayed long enough to see every thing replaced on a friendly footing , rose , and moved to take his leave . 
Matilda told him he must come again on the morrow , for she had a very long confession to make to him . 
This the friar promised to do , and departed with the knight . 
, that he would give the castle and lands of Locksley to the man who should bring in the earl . 
Hereupon ensued a process of thought in the mind of the knight . 
The eyes of the fair huntress of Arlingford had left a wound in his heart which only she who gave could heal . 
He had seen that the baron was no longer very partial to the outlawed earl , but that he still retained his old affection for the lands and castle of Locksley . 
He approached them , and courteously inquired the way to the nearest town . 
There is no town within several miles , was the answer . 
A village , then , if it be but large enough to furnish an inn ? There is Gamwell just by , but there is no inn nearer than the nearest town . 
An abbey , then ? There is no abbey nearer than the nearest inn . 
A house then , or a cottage , where I may obtain hospitality for the night ? Hospitality ! said one of the young women you have not far to seek for that . 
Do you not know that you are in the neighbourhood of Gamwell Hall ? So far from it , said the knight , that I never heard the name of Gamwell Hall before . 
Never heard of Gamwell Hall ? exclaimed all the young women together , who could as soon have dreamed of his never having heard of the sky . 
Indeed , no , said Sir Ralph but I shall be very happy to get rid of my ignorance . 
And so shall I , said his squire for it seems that in this case knowledge will for once be a cure for hunger , wherewith I am grievously afflicted . 
And why are you so busy , my pretty damsels , weaving these garlands ? said the knight . 
That you will , said the knight and the sweetest and brightest of all the flowers of the May , my pretty damsels . 
On which all the pretty damsels smiled at him and each other . 
A tall athletic young man approached , to whom the rustic maidens courtesied with great respect and one of them informed Sir Ralph that it was young Master William Gamwell . 
A motto was inscribed over the interior door , EAT , DRINK , AND BE MERRY an injunction which Sir Ralph and his squire showed remarkable alacrity in obeying . 
CHAPTER VI What ! shall we have incision ? shall we embrew ? Henry IV . 
They arrived on a village green , surrounded with cottages peeping from among the trees by which the green was completely encircled . 
The whole circle was hung round with one continuous garland of flowers , depending in irregular festoons from the branches . 
On their nearer approach , he recognised the lady Matilda and her ghostly adviser , brother Michael . 
A hogshead of ale was abroach under an oak , and a fire was blazing in an open space before the trees to roast the fat deer which the foresters brought . 
The jealous knight scrutinised the successful champion with great attention , and surely thought he had seen that face before . 
In the mean time the forester led the lady to the station . 
The arrow struck within the ring of gold , so close to that of the victorious forester that the points were in contact , and the feathers were intermingled . 
Great acclamations succeeded , and the forester led Matilda to the dance . 
Is that all you know of him ? said Sir Ralph . 
What more should I know of him ? said young Gamwell . 
Then I can tell you , said Sir Ralph , he is the outlawed Earl of Huntingdon , on whose head is set so large a price . 
Ay , is he ? said young Gamwell , in the same careless manner . 
He were a prize worth the taking , said Sir Ralph . 
No doubt , said young Gamwell . 
How think you ? said Sir Ralph are the foresters his adherents ? I cannot say , said young Gamwell . 
Is your peasantry loyal and well disposed ? said Sir Ralph . 
Passing loyal , said young Gamwell . 
Ay , but which side ? said the knight . 
That remains to be tried , said young Gamwell . 
I have King Henry's commission , said the knight , to apprehend this earl that was . 
This gave the knight a good excuse to pursue him , which he did with great celerity , calling , Stop , you rascal . 
When the squire fancied himself safe out of the reach of pursuit , he checked his speed , and allowed the knight to come up with him . 
God's my life , said the sheriff , as they rode along , I had as lief you would tell me of a service of plate . 
Judge now if any loyal subject can be safe in such neighbourhood . 
While the sheriff was thus enlightening his companion concerning the offenders , and whetting his own indignation against them , the sun was fast sinking to the west . 
We must make good our post , and let them dislodge us if they may . 
Robert himself made answer by letting fly an arrow that struck the ground between the fore feet of the sheriff's horse . 
I could as easily have lodged it in your heart . 
It did not need , said the knight , with rueful gallantry you have lodged one there already . 
CHAPTER VII Now , master sheriff , what's your will with me ? Henry IV . 
For what , in the devil's name ? said the baron . 
Breach of the king's fiddlestick ! answered the baron . 
, if you do not forthwith avoid my territory . 
By this time the baron's men had flocked to the battlements , with long bows and cross bows , slings and stones , and Matilda with her bow and quiver at their head . 
The ministers of civil justice said that would not do . 
The abbot said it would do and should and bade them not provoke the meekness of his catholic charity to lay them under the curse of Rome . 
The baron , meanwhile , after the ministers of justice had departed , interrogated Matilda concerning the alleged fact of the grievous bruising of the sheriff of Nottingham . 
Ay ! ay ! said the baron , and I guess who that forester was but truly this friar is a desperate fellow . 
I did not think there could have been so much valour under a grey frock . 
And so you wounded the knight in the arm . 
You are a wild girl , Mawd , a chip of the old block , Mawd . 
No more May games and Gamwell feasts . 
My lands and castle would be the forfeit of a few more such pranks and I think they are as well in my hands as the king's , quite as well . 
You know , father , said Matilda , the condition of keeping me at home I get out if I can , and not on parole . 
Ay ! ay ! said the baron , if you can very true watch and ward , Mawd , watch and ward is my word if you can , is yours . 
The mark is set , and so start fair . 
I pay tribute to your valour in calling you hacked and thwacked . 
I never was thwacked in my life , said the baron I stood my ground manfully , and covered my body with my sword . 
Whence come you now , holy father ? asked Matilda . 
What is the matter then , father ? said Matilda . 
This is the matter , said the friar my holy brethren have held a chapter on me , and sentenced me to seven years' privation of wine . 
I therefore deemed it fitting to take my departure , which they would fain have prohibited . 
I was enforced to clear the way with my staff . 
I have grievously beaten my dearly beloved brethren I grieve thereat but they enforced me thereto . 
Farewell , father , said the baron , a little softened and God send you be never assailed by more than fifty men at a time . 
Amen , said the friar , to that good wish . 
And we shall meet again , father , I trust , said Matilda . 
When the storm is blown over , said the baron . 
Doubt it not , said the friar , though flooded Trent were between us , and fifty devils guarded the bridge . 
He kissed Matilda's forehead , and walked away without a song . 
CHAPTER VIII Let gallows gape for dog let man go free . 
He was full seven feet high . 
But you know , father , said Matilda , a sharp arrow in the same place would have killed you therefore the sending a blunt one was very considerate . 
Considerate , with a vengeance ! said the baron . 
Where was the consideration of sending it at all ? This is some of your forester's pranks . 
He opened the letter , which was addressed to father Michael and found it to contain an intimation that William Gamwell was to be hanged on Monday at Nottingham . 
Robin Hood extracted from his venison pasty a similar intimation of the evil destiny of his cousin , whom he determined , if possible , to rescue from the jaws of Cerberus . 
The sheriff of Nottingham , though still sore with his bruises , was so intent on revenge , that he raised himself from his bed to attend the execution of William Gamwell . 
Young Gamwell was brought forth with his arms pinioned behind him his sister Alice and his father , Sir Guy , attending him in disconsolate mood . 
He had rejected the confessor provided by the sheriff , and had insisted on the privilege of choosing his own , whom Little John had promised to bring . 
No , no , said the sheriff I have had enough of setting odds against you . 
I have sworn you shall be hanged , and hanged you shall be . 
Then God have mercy on me , said young Gamwell and now , holy friar , shrive my sinful soul . 
I see it , said the sheriff and God be thanked for his absence . 
Young Gamwell stood at the foot of the ladder . 
The friar approached him , opened his book , groaned , turned up the whites of his eyes , tossed up his arms in the air , and said Dominus vobiscum . 
He then crossed both his hands on his breast under the folds of his holy robes , and stood a few moments as if in inward prayer . 
A deep silence among the attendant crowd accompanied this action of the friar interrupted only by the hollow tone of the death bell , at long and dreary intervals . 
Suddenly the friar threw off his holy robes , and appeared a forester clothed in green , with a sword in his right hand and a horn in his left . 
Treason ! treason ! cried the sheriff . 
The foresters did not waste time in Nottingham , but were soon at a distance from its walls . 
CHAPTER IX Who set my man i' the stocks ? I set him there , Sir but his own disorders Deserved much less advancement . 
The baron was inflexible in his resolution not to let Matilda leave the castle . 
Matilda became every day more pale and dejected her spirit , which could have contended against any strenuous affliction , pined in the monotonous inaction to which she was condemned . 
Matilda , therefore , from all these circumstances , felt little hope that her lover would be any thing but an outlaw for life . 
The departure of King Richard from England was succeeded by the episcopal regency of the bishops of Ely and Durham . 
, and make his escape beyond sea . 
Prince John followed up his advantage by obtaining possession of several strong posts , and among others of the castle of Nottingham . 
While John was conducting his operations at Nottingham , he rode at times past the castle of Arlingford . 
He stopped on one occasion to claim Lord Fitzwater's hospitality , and made most princely havoc among his venison and brawn . 
, to the castle of Arlingford , to make proposals to the lady . 
This Harpiton was a very useful person . 
Harp it on or , a corruption of greek 'Erpeton , a creeping thing . 
The little fat friar , who during the confusion was asleep in the buttery , found himself , on awaking , inclosed in the besieged castle , and dolefully bewailed his evil chance . 
CHAPTER X A noble girl , i' faith . 
Heart ! I think I fight with a familiar , or the ghost of a fencer . 
Call you this an amorous visage ? Here's blood that would have served me these seven years , in broken heads and cut fingers , and now it runs out all together . 
The machine was completed , and the ensuing morning fixed for the assault . 
Six men , relieved at intervals , kept watch over it during the night . 
Prince John retired to sleep , congratulating himself in the expectation that another day would place the fair culprit at his princely mercy . 
The night was in itself intensely dark , and the fire light shed around it a vivid and unnatural radiance . 
He looked intently on them both their position towards the fire favoured the scrutiny and the hawk's eye of love very speedily discovered that the latter was the fair Matilda . 
The forester he did not know but he had sufficient tact to discern that his success would be very much facilitated by separating her from this companion , above all others . 
Lady Matilda , said John , yield yourself my prisoner . 
Prince John wished to disarm and take captive , not in any way to wound or injure , least of all to kill , his fair opponent . 
John was following up his advantage to make a captive of the lady , when he was suddenly felled to the earth by an unseen antagonist . 
Some of his men picked him carefully up , and conveyed him to his tent , stunned and stupified . 
Are you that friar ? repeated the prince . 
Several of the by standers declared that he was not that friar . 
The little friar , encouraged by this patronage , found his voice , and pleaded for mercy . 
The prince questioned him closely concerning the burning of the castle . 
The little friar added , that he knew nothing of what had passed since till he heard the flames roaring at his elbow . 
Take him away , Harpiton , said the prince , fill him with sack , and turn him out . 
Never mind the sack , said the little friar , turn me out at once . 
A sad chance , said Harpiton , to be turned out without sack . 
But what Harpiton thought a sad chance the little friar thought a merry one , and went bounding like a fat buck towards the abbey of Rubygill . 
An arrow , with a letter attached to it , was shot into the camp , and carried to the prince . 
As it is , I have so well disposed my combustibles that it shall not serve you as a strong hold in your rebellion . 
If you hunt in the chases of Nottinghamshire , you may catch other game than my daughter . 
Both she and I are content to be houseless for a time , in the reflection that we have deserved your enmity , and the friendship of Coeur de Lion . 
CHAPTER XI Tuck , the merry friar , who many a sermon made In praise of Robin Hood , his outlaws , and their trade . 
The baron , with some of his retainers and all the foresters , halted at daybreak in Sherwood forest . 
The foresters quickly erected tents , and prepared an abundant breakfast of venison and ale . 
Now , Lord Fitzwater , said the chief forester , recognise your son in law that was to have been , in the outlaw Robin Hood . 
Ay , ay , said the baron , I have recognised you long ago . 
And recognise your young friend Gamwell , said the second , in the outlaw Scarlet . 
And Little John , the page , said the third , in Little John the outlaw . 
And Father Michael , of Rubygill Abbey , said the friar , in Friar Tuck , of Sherwood forest . 
I am in fine company , said the baron . 
In the very best of company , said the friar , in the high court of Nature , and in the midst of her own nobility . 
He levies contributions among them by the free consent of his archers , their virtual representatives . 
With whom , both ? With any that would or will dispute it . 
From whom , both ? From all that they could or can make pay them . 
Why did any pay them to William ? Why do any pay them to Robin ? For the same reason to both because they could not or cannot help it . 
Mass , we take all at once . 
What then ? It is tax by redemption and tithe by commutation . 
Your William and Richard can cut and come again , but our Robin deals with slippery subjects that come not twice to his exchequer . 
For the laureate , his only office is to find virtues in those who have none , and to drink sack for his pains . 
We have quite virtue enough to need him not , and can drink our sack for ourselves . 
Well preached , friar , said Robin Hood yet there is one thing wanting to constitute a court , and that is a queen . 
And now , lovely Matilda , look round upon these sylvan shades where we have so often roused the stag from his ferny covert . 
The rising sun smiles upon us through the stems of that beechen knoll . 
Not Matilda , said the friar the rules of our holy alliance require new birth . 
We have excepted in favour of Little John , because he is great John , and his name is a misnomer . 
I sprinkle , not thy forehead with water , but thy lips with wine , and baptize thee MARIAN . 
Here is a pretty conspiracy , exclaimed the baron . 
Why , you villanous friar , think you to nickname and marry my daughter before my face with impunity ? Even so , bold baron , said the friar we are strongest here . 
Say you , might overcomes right ? I say no . 
There is no right but might and to say that might overcomes right is to say that right overcomes itself an absurdity most palpable . 
Your right was the stronger in Arlingford , and ours is the stronger in Sherwood . 
Your right was right as long as you could maintain it so is ours . 
And now if any of you know any just impediment Fire and fury , said the baron . 
Fire and fury , said the friar , are modes of that might which constitutes right , and are just impediments to any thing against which they can be brought to bear . 
They are our good allies upon occasion , and would declare for us now if you should put them to the test . 
Father , said Matilda , you know the terms of our compact from the moment you restrained my liberty , you renounced your claim to all but compulsory obedience . 
I am no longer lady Matilda Fitzwater , of Arlingford Castle , but plain Maid Marian , of Sherwood Forest . 
Long live Maid Marian ! re echoed the foresters . 
The foresters did as the friar directed . 
Now , Little John , said the friar , on with the cloak of the abbot of Doubleflask . 
I appoint thee my clerk thou art here duly elected in full mote . 
I wish you were all in full moat together , said the baron , and smooth wall on both sides . 
Punnest thou ? said the friar . 
A heinous anti christian offence . 
Why anti christian ? Because anti catholic ? Why anti catholic ? Because anti roman . 
Why anti roman ? Because Carthaginian . 
Is not pun from Punic ? punica fides the very quint essential quiddity of bad faith double visaged double tongued . 
He that will make a pun will I say no more . 
Who is the bride's father ? There is no bride's father , said the baron . 
I am the father of Matilda Fitzwater . 
There is none such , said the friar . 
This is the fair Maid Marian . 
Stand back , sirrah Scarlet , said the baron . 
My daughter shall have no father but me . 
Needs must when the devil drives . 
No matter who drives , said the friar , so that , like a well disposed subject , you yield cheerful obedience to those who can enforce it . 
And though I here plight my troth at the altar to Robin , in the presence of this holy priest and pious clerk , yet . 
And therefore is she called Maid Marian Because she leads a spotless maiden life And shall till Robin's outlaw life have end . 
A pretty resolution , said the baron , if Robin will let you keep it . 
I have sworn it , said Robin . 
Truly so , said the friar for temptation dwells with ease and luxury but the hunter is Hippolytus , and the huntress is Dian . 
And now , dearly beloved The friar went through the ceremony with great unction , and Little John was most clerical in the intonation of his responses . 
CHAPTER XII A single volume paramount a code A master spirit a determined road . 
The next morning Robin Hood convened his foresters , and desired Little John , for the baron's edification , to read over the laws of their forest society . 
Little John read aloud with a stentorophonic voice . 
The principles of our society are six Legitimacy , Equity , Hospitality , Chivalry , Chastity , and Courtesy . 
All forest laws but our own we declare to be null and void . 
The rest we declare null and void as far as relates to ourselves , in all cases wherein a vigour beyond the law may be conducive to our own interest and preservation . 
In all cases a quorum of foresters shall constitute a court of equity , and as many as may be strong enough to manage the matter in hand shall constitute a quorum . 
These byshoppes and these archbyshoppes Ye shall them bete and bynde , says Robin Hood , in an old ballad . 
The articles of Hospitality are two I. Postmen , carriers and market folk , peasants and mechanics , farmers and millers , shall pass through our forest dominions without let or molestation . 
The article of Courtesy is one I. No one shall miscall a forester . 
And these articles we swear to keep as we are good men and true . 
Excellent laws , said the baron excellent , by the holy rood . 
William of Normandy , with my great great grandfather Fierabras at his elbow , could not have made better . 
And now , sweet Mawd A fine , a fine , cried the friar , a fine , by the article of courtesy . 
Od's life , said the baron , shall I not call my own daughter Mawd ? Methinks there should be a special exception in my favour . 
It must not be , said Robin Hood our constitution admits no privilege . 
But I will commute , said the friar for twenty marks a year duly paid into my ghostly pocket you shall call your daughter Mawd two hundred times a day . 
I will trust , said the friar , and thus let us ratify the stipulation so shall our laws and your infringement run together in an amicable parallel . 
But , said Little John , this is a bad precedent , master friar . 
It is turning discipline into profit , penalty into perquisite , public justice into private revenue . 
It is rank corruption , master friar . 
Why are laws made ? said the friar . 
For the profit of somebody . 
Of whom ? Of him who makes them first , and of others as it may happen . 
I must house , Mawd . 
I must find refuge but where ? That is the question . 
Where Sir Guy of Gamwell has found it , said Robin Hood , near the borders of Barnsdale . 
There you may dwell in safety with him and fair Alice , till King Richard return , and Little John shall give you safe conduct . 
You will have need to travel with caution , in disguise and without attendants , for Prince John commands all this vicinity , and will doubtless lay the country for you and Marian . 
Now it is first expedient to dismiss your retainers . 
If there be any among them who like our life , they may stay with us in the greenwood the rest may return to their homes . 
Some of the baron's men resolved to remain with Robin and Marian , and were furnished accordingly with suits of green , of which Robin always kept good store . 
Robin was very unwilling to consent to this , and assured her that there was more danger for her than the baron but Marian was absolute . 
Marian objected to this , that there was more danger for Robin than either herself or the baron but Robin was absolute in his turn . 
Talk not of my voice , said the friar for if Marian be a damsel errant , I will be her ghostly esquire . 
Robin insisted that this should not be , for number would only expose them to greater risk of detection . 
The friar , after some debate , reluctantly acquiesced . 
While they were discussing these matters , they heard the distant sound of horses' feet . 
Go , said Robin to Little John , and invite yonder horseman to dinner . 
Whither go you ? said Little John . 
Whithersoever my horse pleases , said the young man . 
And that shall be , said Little John , whither I please to lead him . 
I am commissioned to invite you to dine with my master . 
Who is your master ? said the young man . 
Robin Hood , said Little John . 
The bold outlaw ? said the stranger . 
Neither he nor you should have made me turn an inch aside yesterday but to day I care not . 
Robin seated the young man next to Marian . 
But the young man drank little , ate less , spake nothing , and every now and then sighed heavily . 
When the repast was ended , Now , said Robin , you are at liberty to pursue your journey but first be pleased to pay for your dinner . 
That would I gladly do , Robin , said the young man , but all I have about me are five shillings and a ring . 
To the five shillings you shall be welcome , but for the ring I will fight while there is a drop of blood in my veins . 
Gallantly spoken , said Robin Hood . 
A love token , without doubt but you must submit to our forest laws . 
Then give me some money , said bold Robin Hood , For none can I find in the good greenwood , All on the fallen leaves so brown . 
CHAPTER XIII What can a young lassie , what shall a young lassie , What can a young lassie do wi'an auld man ? BURNS . 
Here is but five shillings and a ring , said Little John , and the young man has spoken true . 
Then , said Robin to the stranger , if want of money be the cause of your melancholy , speak . 
Little John is my treasurer , and he shall disburse to you . 
In what way have you lost her ? said Robin let us clearly know that she is past regaining , before we give up our wishes to restore her to you . 
She is to be married this day , said the stranger , and perhaps is married by this , to a rich old knight and yesterday I knew it not . 
What is your name ? said Robin . 
Allen , said the stranger . 
And where is the marriage to take place , Allen ? said Robin . 
At Edwinstow church , said Allen , by the bishop of Nottingham . 
I know that bishop , said Robin he dined with me a month since , and paid three hundred pounds for his dinner . 
He has a good ear and loves music . 
The friar sang to him to some tune . 
Give me my harper's cloak , and I will play a part at this wedding . 
These are dangerous times , Robin , said Marian , for playing pranks out of the forest . 
Fear not , said Robin Edwinstow lies not Nottingham ward , and I will take my precautions . 
Robin put on his harper's cloak , while Little John painted his eyebrows and cheeks , tipped his nose with red , and tied him on a comely beard . 
Marian confessed , that had she not been present at the metamorphosis , she should not have known her own true Robin . 
Robin took his harp and went to the wedding . 
Robin found the bishop and his train in the church porch , impatiently expecting the arrival of the bride and bridegroom . 
Oh ! by my fey , said the music loving bishop , here comes a harper in the nick of time , and now I care not how long they tarry . 
A most courtly harper , said the bishop I will fill thee with sack I will make thee a walking butt of sack , if thou wilt delight my ears with thy melodies . 
It would be idle , said the bishop , to give thee sack for playing me anthems , seeing that I myself do receive sack for hearing them sung . 
Therefore , as the occasion is festive , thou shalt play me a coranto . 
Robin stopped his minstrelsy , and said to the bishop , This seems to me an unfit match . 
What do you say , rascal ? said the old knight , hobbling up to him . 
I say , said Robin , this seems to me an unfit match . 
I will not stand away from the porch , said Robin , unless the bride bid me , and tell me that you are her own true love . 
Speak , said the bride's father , in a severe tone , and with a look of significant menace . 
The girl looked alternately at her father and Robin . 
She attempted to speak , but her voice failed in the effort , and she burst into tears . 
Here is lawful cause and just impediment , said Robin , and I forbid the banns . 
Who are you , villain ? said the old knight , stamping his sound foot with rage . 
Honest harper , said the bishop , you are somewhat over officious here , and less courtly than I deemed you . 
If you love sack , forbear for this course will never bring you a drop . 
Robin stripped the bishop and clerk of their robes , and put them on the friar and Little John and Allen advanced to take the hand of the bride . 
Her cheeks grew red and her eyes grew bright , as she locked her hand in her lover's , and tripped lightly with him into the church . 
This marriage will not stand , said the bishop , for they have not been thrice asked in church . 
We will ask them seven times , said Little John , lest three should not suffice . 
And in the meantime , said Robin , the knight and the bishop shall dance to my harping . 
The knight grimaced ruefully , and begged Robin to think of his gout . 
So I do , said Robin this is the true antipodagron you shall dance the gout away , and be thankful to me while you live . 
I told you , he added to the bishop , I would play at this wedding but you did not tell me that you would dance at it . 
The next couple you marry , think of the Roman law . 
CHAPTER XIV As ye came from the holy land Of blessed Walsinghame , Oh met ye not with my true love , As by the way ye came ? Old Ballad . 
This was an awkward occurrence but there was no presence for refusal , and they followed the servant into the castle . 
The baron guessed at this circumstance from the customs of that age , and happened to be in the right . 
This miniature , added the baron , I have had the felicity to see , and should have known you by it among a million . 
Now , if it were really Matilda Fitzwater , who were her two companions ? The baron ? Aye , and the elder pilgrim was something like him . 
And the earl of Huntingdon ? Very probably . 
The earl and the baron might be good friends again , now that they were both in disgrace together . 
The knight expressed some scepticism on this point . 
Meanwhile our three pilgrims proceeded on their way . 
A peasant observed the pilgrims as they entered that narrow pass , and called after them Whither go you , my masters ? there are rogues in that direction . 
Can you show us a direction , said Robin , in which there are none ? If so we will take it in preference . 
The peasant grinned , and walked away whistling . 
The pass widened as they advanced , and the woods grew thicker and darker around them . 
In a short time all was dark , and the rising voice of the wind foretold a coming storm . 
Robin blew his horn , which was answered from below . 
Their story had no mystery , and Marian easily collected it from the tenour of their conversation . 
In this state , Robin , then earl of Huntingdon , discovered them in one of his huntings , and gave them aid and protection . 
The smiles which surrounded him were of his own creation , and he participated in the happiness he had bestowed . 
The casements began to rattle in the wind , and the rain to beat upon the windows . 
The wind swelled to a hurricane , and the rain dashed like a flood against the glass . 
Well , said the baron , give me a roof over my head , be it never so humble . 
Your greenwood canopy is pretty and pleasant in sunshine but if I were doomed to live under it , I should wish it were water tight . 
But , said Robin , we have tents and caves for foul weather , good store of wine and venison , and fuel in abundance . 
Your beech root is over hard for a couch , and your mossy stump is somewhat rough for a bolster . 
I like to feel myself safe , said the baron . 
CHAPTER XV O knight , thou lack'st a cup of canary . 
When did I see thee so put down ? Twelfth Night . 
Robin arose and went to the door . 
What are you ? said Robin . 
A soldier , replied the voice an unfortunate adherent of Longchamp , flying the vengeance of Prince John . 
Are you alone ? said Robin . 
Yes , said the voice it is a dreadful night . 
Hospitable cottagers , pray give me admittance . 
I would not have asked it but for the storm . 
I would have kept my watch in the woods . 
That I believe , said Robin . 
You did not reckon on the storm when you turned into this pass . 
Do you know there are rogues this way ? I do , said the voice . 
So do I , said Robin . 
A pause ensued , during which Robin listening attentively caught a faint sound of whispering . 
You are not alone , said Robin . 
Who are your companions ? None but the wind and the water , said the voice , and I would I had them not . 
No reply was made , but furious strokes from without resounded upon the door . 
Robin , Marian , and the baron threw by their pilgrim's attire , and stood in arms on the defensive . 
They were provided with swords , and the cottager gave them bucklers and helmets , for all Robin's haunts were furnished with secret armouries . 
, and the wife seized the spit from the fireplace , and held it as she saw the baron hold his spear . 
The stepping stones , by which the intruders must have crossed , were buried under the waters . 
The instant the door broke , Robin and Marian loosed their arrows . 
The baron raged like a tiger , and the cottager laid about him like a thresher . 
The men who were engaged with the baron and the peasant , seeing their leader subdued , immediately laid down their arms and cried for quarter . 
The wife brought some strong rope , and the baron tied their arms behind them . 
Now , Sir Ralph , said Marian , once more you are at my mercy . 
That I always am , cruel beauty , said the discomfited lover . 
Slice him down , Mawd ! slice him down , and fling him into the river . 
Confess , said Marian , what brought you here , and how did you trace our steps ? I will confess nothing , said the knight . 
Then confess you , rascal , said the baron , holding his sword to the throat of the captive squire . 
You are a merry knave , said the baron , and here is a cup of wine for you . 
Gramercy , said the squire , and better late than never but I lacked a cup of this before . 
Had I been pot valiant , I had held you play . 
Sir knight , said Marian , this is the third time you have sought the life of my lord and of me , for mine is interwoven with his . 
I spare you now , not in pity but in scorn . 
Yet shall you swear to a convention never more to pursue or molest my lord or me , and on this condition you shall live . 
The knight had no alternative but to comply , and swore , on the honour of knighthood , to keep the convention inviolate . 
How well he kept his oath we shall have no opportunity of narrating Di lui la nostra istoria piu non parla . 
CHAPTER XVI Carry me over the water , thou fine fellowe . 
The pilgrims , without experiencing further molestation , arrived at the retreat of Sir Guy of Gamwell . 
The ferryman emerged from the willows and stepped into his boat . 
As I live , exclaimed Robin , the ferryman is a friar . 
With a sword , said Marian , stuck in his rope girdle . 
The friar pushed his boat off manfully , and was presently half over the river . 
It is friar Tuck , said Marian . 
He will scarcely know us , said Robin and if he do not , I will break a staff with him for sport . 
The friar came singing across the water the boat touched the land Robin and Marian stepped on board the friar pushed off again . 
What need you of purse or pouch ? You may sing before thieves . 
But , sirrahs , I'll none of your balderdash . 
You pass not hence without clink of brass , or I'll knock your musical noddles together till they ring like a pair of cymbals . 
That will be a new tune for your minstrelships . 
This friendly speech of the friar ended as they stepped on the opposite bank . 
Robin had noticed as they passed that the summer stream was low . 
Dost thou see this coin ? Dost thou hear this music ? Look and listen for touch thou shalt not my minstrelship defies thee . 
Thou shalt carry me on thy back over the water , and receive nothing but a cracked sconce for thy trouble . 
A bargain , said the friar for the water is low , the labour is light , and the reward is alluring . 
And he stooped down for Robin , who mounted his back , and the friar waded with him over the river . 
Now , fine fellow , said the friar , thou shalt carry me back over the water , and thou shalt have a cracked sconce for thy trouble . 
Robin waded to shore , and the friar , half swimming and half scrambling , followed . 
Fine fellow , fine fellow , said the friar , now will I pay thee thy cracked sconce . 
Not so , said Robin , I have not earned it but thou hast earned it , and shalt have it . 
The parties were both so skilled in attack and defence , that their mutual efforts for a long time expended themselves in quick and loud rappings on each other's oaken staves . 
Benefit of clergy , said the friar I plead my clergy . 
And is it you indeed , ye scapegraces ? Ye are well disguised I knew ye not , by my flask . 
Robin , jolly Robin , he buys a jest dearly that pays for it with a bloody coxcomb . 
But here is balm for all bruises , outward and inward . 
Wash thy wound twice and thy throat thrice with this solar concoction , and thou shalt marvel where was thy hurt . 
but I rejoiced thereat , that I might discuss to them poetical justice and therefore have I cracked thy sconce for which , let this be thy medicine . 
But wherefore , said Marian , do we find you here , when we left you joint lord warden of Sherwood ? I do but retire to my devotions , replied the friar . 
There is no surer symptom of receding years . 
The ferryman is my faithful varlet . 
The friar now conducted them to his peaceful cell , where he spread his frugal board with fish , venison , wild fowl , fruit , and canary . 
Under the compound operation of this materia medica Robin's wounds healed apace , and the friar , who hated minstrelsy , began as usual chirping in his cups . 
Robin and Marian chimed in with his tuneful humour till the midnight moon peeped in upon their revelry . 
Will you not bring your passenger over ? said Robin . 
The friar shook his head and looked mysterious . 
That passenger , said the friar , will never come over . 
It is very strange , said Robin . 
Wondrous strange , said the friar , looking solemn . 
The voice again called Over ! in a long plaintive musical cry . 
I must go to it , said the friar , or it will give us no peace . 
I would all my customers were of this world . 
I begin to think that I am Charon , and that this river is Styx . 
I will go with you , friar , said Robin . 
By my flask , said the friar , but you shall not . 
Then I will , said Marian . 
Still less , said the friar , hurrying out of the cell . 
Robin and Marian followed but the friar outstepped them , and pushed off his boat . 
A white figure was visible under the shade of the opposite trees . 
The boat approached the shore , and the figure glided away . 
They re entered the cottage , and sat some time conversing on the phenomenon they had seen . 
The friar sipped his wine , and after a time , said There is a tradition of a damsel who was drowned here some years ago . 
Her lover's form appeared to glide , And beckon o'er the water Alas ! his blood that morn had dyed Her brother's sword with slaughter . 
Upon a little rock she stood , To make her invocation She marked not that the rain swoll'n flood Was islanding her station . 
The tempest mocked her feeble cry No saint his aid would give her The flood swelled high and yet more high , And swept her down the river . 
Yet oft beneath the pale moonlight , When hollow winds are blowing , The shadow of that maiden bright Glides by the dark stream's flowing . 
Look you now , said Robin , if the friar does not blush . 
Many strange sights have I seen in my day , but never till this moment did I see a blushing friar . 
I think , said the friar , you never saw one that blushed not , or you saw good canary thrown away . 
But you are welcome to laugh if it so please you . 
None shall laugh in my company , though it be at my expense , but I will have my share of the merriment . 
The world is a stage , and life is a farce , and he that laughs most has most profit of the performance . 
Our wanderers returned joyfully to their forest dominion , being thus relieved from the vicinity of any more formidable belligerent than their old bruised and beaten enemy the sheriff of Nottingham . 
CHAPTER XVII Oh ! this life Is nobler than attending for a check , Richer than doing nothing for a bribe Prouder than rustling in unpaid for silk . 
Robin was as hospitable as Cathmor for seven men stood on seven paths to call the stranger to his feast . 
Marian often killed the deer , Which Scarlet dressed , and Friar Tuck blessed While Little John wandered in search of a guest . 
Each of his men had , as usual , a patron saint according to his name or taste . 
Saint Bottle , then , was the saint of Friar Tuck , who did not yield even to Robin and Marian in the assiduity of his devotions to his chosen patron . 
Alcofribas Nasier an anagram of Francois Rabelais , and his assumed appellation . 
Many moons had waxed and waned , when on the afternoon of a lovely summer day a lusty broad boned knight was riding through the forest of Sherwood . 
My master has tarried dinner for you these three hours . 
I doubt , said the knight , I am not he you wot of . 
I am no where bidden to day and I know none in this vicinage . 
We feared , said the youth , your memory would be treacherous therefore am I stationed here to refresh it . 
Who is your master ? said the knight and where does he abide ? My master , said the youth , is called Robin Hood , and he abides hard by . 
And what knows he of me ? said the knight . 
He knows you , answered the youth as he does every way faring knight and friar , by instinct . 
Gramercy , said the knight then I understand his bidding but how if I say I will not come ? I am enjoined to bring you , said the youth . 
If persuasion avail not , I must use other argument . 
Say'st thou so ? said the knight I doubt if thy stripling rhetoric would convince me . 
That , said the young forester , we will see . 
We are not equally matched , boy , said the knight . 
I should get less honour by thy conquest , than grief by thy injury . 
Perhaps , said the youth , my strength is more than my seeming , and my cunning more than my strength . 
Therefore let it please your knighthood to dismount . 
It shall please my knighthood to chastise thy presumption , said the knight , springing from his saddle . 
Hereupon , which in those days was usually the result of a meeting between any two persons anywhere , they proceeded to fight . 
Mass , that had nigh been a shrewd hit . 
Thou owest him for that , lass . 
Marry , stand by , I'll pay him for thee . 
The knight turning to the voice , beheld a tall friar issuing from the thicket , brandishing a ponderous cudgel . 
Who art thou ? said the knight . 
I am the church militant of Sherwood , answered the friar . 
Why art thou in arms against our lady queen ? What meanest thou ? said the knight . 
Truly , this , said the friar , is our liege lady of the forest , against whom I do apprehend thee in overt act of treason . 
What sayest thou for thyself ? I say , answered the knight , that if this be indeed a lady , man never yet held me so long . 
Spoken , said the friar , like one who hath done execution . 
So saying , he kissed the hand of Marian , who was pleased most graciously to express her approbation . 
Gramercy , sir knight , said the friar , I laud thee for thy courtesy , which I deem to be no less than thy valour . 
Now do thou follow me , while I follow my nose , which scents the pleasant odour of roast from the depth of the forest recesses . 
I will lead thy horse , and do thou lead my lady . 
Their path had expanded sufficiently to allow the knight to take Marian's hand again , when they arrived in the august presence of Robin Hood and his court . 
An hundred foresters were here assembled over ready for their dinner , some seated at the table and some lying in groups under the trees . 
Why dost thou weep , man ? said Robin Hood . 
Thou hast done thine embassy justly , and shalt have thy Lady's grace . 
Propound me his case , said Friar Tuck , and I will give him ghostly counsel . 
You well remember , said Robin Hood , the sorrowful knight who dined with us here twelve months and a day gone by . 
Well do I , said Friar Tuck . 
His lands were in jeopardy with a certain abbot , who would allow him no longer day for their redemption . 
Mary's , hath brought it me duly , principal and interest to a penny , as Little John can testify , who told it forth . 
To be sure , he denied having it , but that was to prove our faith . 
We sought and found it . 
I know nothing of your knight , said the monk and the money was our own , as the Virgin shall bless me . 
She shall bless thee , said Friar Tuck , for a faithful messenger . 
The monk resumed his wailing . 
Little John brought him his horse . 
Robin gave him leave to depart . 
He sprang with singular nimbleness into the saddle , and vanished without saying , God give you good day . 
The stranger knight laughed heartily as the monk rode off . 
They say , sir knight , said Friar Tuck , they should laugh who win but thou laughest who art likely to lose . 
I have won , said the knight , a good dinner , some mirth , and some knowledge and I cannot lose by paying for them . 
Bravely said , answered Robin . 
Still it becomes thee to pay for it is not meet that a poor forester should treat a rich knight . 
How much money hast thou with thee ? Troth , I know not , said the knight . 
Sometimes much , sometimes little , sometimes none . 
But search , and what thou findest , keep and for the sake of thy kind heart and open hand , be it what it may , I shall wish it were more . 
Then , since thou sayest so , said Robin , not a penny will I touch . 
Many a false churl comes hither , and disburses against his will and till there is lack of these , I prey not on true men . 
Thou art thyself a true man , right well I judge , Robin , said the stranger knight , and seemest more like one bred in court than to thy present outlaw life . 
Our life , said the friar , is a craft , an art , and a mystery . 
How much of it , think you , could be learned at court ? Indeed , I cannot say , said the stranger knight but I should apprehend very little . 
And so should I , said the friar for we should find very little of our bold open practice , but should hear abundance of praise of our principles . 
Your comparison , friar , said the stranger , fails in this that your thief fights for profit , and your hero for honour . 
Misconceive me not , sir knight , said the friar . 
I would , fair lady , said the stranger , that thy latter observation were not so true . 
Gramercy , sir knight , said Robin But his speech was cut short by Little John calling , Hark ! All listened . 
A distant trampling of horses was heard . 
The sounds approached rapidly , and at length a group of horsemen glittering in holyday dresses was visible among the trees . 
God's my life ! said Robin , what means this ? To arms , my merrymen all . 
Little John bustled to re array the disorganised economy of the table , and replace the dilapidations of the provender . 
I thank thee for that , in God's name , said Robin , as if thy good service had been to myself . 
Thy bows and arrows , said Robin , will I joyfully receive but of thy money , not a penny . 
My Lady , who was thy security , hath sent it me for thee . 
Sir William pressed , but Robin was inflexible . 
It is paid , said Robin , as this good knight can testify , who saw my Lady's messenger depart but now . 
Sir William looked round to the stranger knight , and instantly fell on his knee , saying , God save King Richard . 
The foresters , friar and all , dropped on their knees together , and repeated in chorus God save King Richard . 
Rise , rise , said Richard , smiling Robin is king here , as his lady hath shown . 
I have heard much of thee , Robin , both of thy present and thy former state . 
And this , thy fair forest queen , is , if tales say true , the lady Matilda Fitzwater . 
Robin looked round on his men . 
too great for one frail mortality , I will relieve you by vicarious penance , and pour down my own throat the redundancy of the burden . 
Robin and his followers embraced the king's proposal . 
VARIANTS IN THE TEXT Changes in spelling , use of capitals , punctuation and type are not recorded . 
and the bishops and bishops . 
a posse of men fifty men . 
more fastidious relish every day I grow more intolerant of bad , and have a keener and more fastidious relish of good wine . 
