This etext was prepared by Judy Boss , Omaha , NE MALBONE AN OLDPORT ROMANCE . 
What is Nature unless there is an eventful human life passing within her ? Many joys and many sorrows are the lights and shadows in which she shows most beautiful . 
PRELUDE I. AN ARRIVAL II . 
PLACE AUX DAMES ! III . 
A DRIVE ON THE AVENUE IV . 
AUNT JANE DEFINES HER POSITION V. A MULTIVALVE HEART VI . 
SOME LOVER'S CLEAR DAY VII . 
DANGEROUS WAYS X. REMONSTRANCES XI . 
THE NEMESIS OF FASHION XV . 
AUNT JANE TO THE RESCUE XXI . 
OUT OF THE DEPTHS XXIII . 
Though almost all trace of their presence is already gone , yet their mere memory lends to these cliffs a human interest . 
Where a stranded vessel lies , thither all steps converge , so long as one plank remains upon another . 
All else is but the setting , and the eye sweeps with indifference the line of unpeopled rocks . 
They are barren , till the imagination has tenanted them with possibilities of danger and dismay . 
The ocean provides the scenery and properties of a perpetual tragedy , but the interest arrives with the performers . 
Till then the shores remain vacant , like the great conventional armchairs of the French drama , that wait for Rachel to come and die . 
IT was one of the changing days of our Oldport midsummer . 
In the morning it had rained in rather a dismal way , and Aunt Jane had said she should put it in her diary . 
It was a very serious thing for the elements when they got into Aunt Jane's diary . 
The household sat beneath the large western doorway of the old Maxwell House , he rear door , which looks on the water . 
The house had just been reoccupied by my Aunt Jane , whose great grandfather had built it , though it had for several generations been out of the family . 
I know no finer specimen of those large colonial dwellings in which the genius of Sir Christopher Wren bequeathed traditions of stateliness to our democratic days . 
Like most of the statelier houses in that region of Oldport , this abode had its rumors of a ghost and of secret chambers . 
If there was anything she hated , it was nooks and odd corners . 
But this first tumult had passed away and now there remained only the various nephews and nieces of the house , including a due proportion of small children . 
Two final guests were to arrive that day , bringing the latest breath of Europe on their wings , Philip Malbone , Hope's betrothed and little Emilia , Hope's half sister . 
As for Philip , he had been spoiled , as Aunt Jane declared , from the day of his birth , by the joint effort of all friends and neighbors . 
The New York steamer , detained by the heavy fog of the night before , now came in unwonted daylight up the bay . 
In another half hour there was a great entanglement of embraces at the water side , for the guests had landed . 
But in the brilliant little fairy beside him all looked in vain for the Emilia they remembered as a child . 
Her eyes were more beautiful than ever , the darkest violet eyes , that grew luminous with thought and almost black with sorrow . 
There is a kind of beauty that seems made to be painted on ivory , and such was hers . 
Moreover , little Helen got in the first remark in the way of serious conversation . 
Let me tell him something ! said the child . 
Philip ! that doll of mine that you used to know , only think ! she was sick and died last summer , and went into the rag bag . 
And the other split down the back , so there was an end of her . 
Polar ice would have been thawed by this reopening of communication . 
Philip soon had the little maid on his shoulder , the natural throne of all children , and they went in together to greet Aunt Jane . 
Aunt Jane was the head of the house , a lady who had spent more than fifty years in educating her brains and battling with her ailments . 
She had received from her parents a considerable inheritance in the way of whims , and had nursed it up into a handsome fortune . 
She had seen much and varied society , had been greatly admired in her youth , but had chosen to remain unmarried . 
Obliged by her physical condition to make herself the first object , she was saved from utter selfishness by sympathies as democratic as her personal habits were exclusive . 
She hated everything irresolute or vague people might play at cat's cradle or study Spinoza , just as they pleased but , whatever they did , they must give their minds to it . 
She kept house from an easy chair , and ruled her dependants with severity tempered by wit , and by the very sweetest voice in which reproof was ever uttered . 
So did the youths and maidens of her large circle they all came to see her , and she counselled , admired , scolded , and petted them all . 
She had the gayest spirits , and an unerring eye for the ludicrous , and she spoke her mind with absolute plainness to all comers . 
Her intuitions were instantaneous as lightning , and , like that , struck very often in the wrong place . 
She was thus extremely unreasonable and altogether charming . 
Such was the lady whom Emilia and Malbone went up to greet , the one shyly , the other with an easy assurance , such as she always disliked . 
Emilia submitted to another kiss , while Philip pressed Aunt Jane's hand , as he pressed all women's , and they sat down . 
Now begin to tell your adventures , said Kate . 
People always tell their adventures till tea is ready . 
Who can have any adventures left , said Philip , after such letters as I wrote you all ? Of which we got precisely one ! said Kate . 
I was at Neuchatel two months but I had no adventures . 
I lodged with a good Pasteur , who taught me geology and German . 
That is suspicious , said Kate . 
Had he a daughter passing fair ? Indeed he had . 
And you taught her English ? That is what these beguiling youths always do in novels . 
What was her name ? Lili . 
What a pretty name ! How old was she ? She was six . 
O Philip ! cried Kate but I might have known it . 
Did she love you very much ? Hope looked up , her eyes full of mild reproach at the possibility of doubting any child's love for Philip . 
Happily they had in common the one trait of perfect amiability , and she knew no more how to be jealous than he to be constant . 
Lili was easily won , he said . 
Other things being equal , people of six prefer that man who is tallest . 
Philip is not so very tall , said the eldest of the boys , who was listening eagerly , and growing rapidly . 
No , said Philip , meekly . 
But then the Pasteur was short , and his brother was a dwarf . 
When Lili found that she could reach the ceiling from Mr. Malbone's shoulder , said Emilia , she asked no more . 
Then you knew the pastor's family also , my child , said Aunt Jane , looking at her kindly and a little keenly . 
I was allowed to go there sometimes , she began , timidly . 
To meet her American Cousin , interrupted Philip . 
I got some relaxation in the rules of the school . 
But , Aunt Jane , you have told us nothing about your health . 
There is nothing to tell , she answered . 
I should like , if it were convenient , to be a little better . 
But in this life , if one can walk across the floor , and not be an idiot , it is something . 
That is all I aim at . 
Isn't it rather tiresome ? said Emilia , as the elder lady happened to look at her . 
Not at all , said Aunt Jane , composedly . 
I naturally fall back into happiness , when left to myself . 
So you have returned to the house of your fathers , said Philip . 
I hope you like it . 
It is commonplace in one respect , said Aunt Jane . 
General Washington once slept here . 
It is one of that class of houses ? Yes , said she . 
There is not a village in America that has not half a dozen of them , not counting those where he only breakfasted . 
I never was attached to the memory of Washington , meditated Philip but I always thought it was the pear tree . 
It must have been that he was such a very unsettled person . 
He certainly was not what is called a domestic character , said Aunt Jane . 
I suppose you are , Miss Maxwell , said Philip . 
Do you often go out ? Sometimes , to drive , said Aunt Jane . 
Yesterday I went shopping with Kate , and sat in the carriage while she bought under sleeves enough for a centipede . 
It is always so with that child . 
People talk about the trouble of getting a daughter ready to be married but it is like being married once a month to live with her . 
I wonder that you take her to drive with you , suggested Philip , sympathetically . 
It is a great deal worse to drive without her , said the impetuous lady . 
She is the only person who lets me enjoy things , and now I cannot enjoy them in her absence . 
Yesterday I drove alone over the three beaches , and left her at home with a dress maker . 
Never did I see so many lines of surf but they only seemed to me like some of Kate's ball dresses , with the prevailing flounces , six deep . 
I was so enraged that she was not there , I wished to cover my face with my handkerchief . 
By the third beach I was ready for the madhouse . 
Is Oldport a pleasant place to live in ? asked Emilia , eagerly . 
It is amusing in the summer , said Aunt Jane , though the society is nothing but a pack of visiting cards . 
In winter it is too dull for young people , and only suits quiet old women like me , who merely live here to keep the Ten Commandments and darn their stockings . 
Meantime the children were aiming at Emilia , whose butterfly looks amazed and charmed them , but who evidently did not know what to do with their eager affection . 
I know about you , said little Helen I know what you said when you were little . 
Did I say anything ? asked Emilia , carelessly . 
Yes , replied the child , and began to repeat the oft told domestic tradition in an accurate way , as if it were a school lesson . 
I do not think it was Emilia who asked that remarkable question , little girl , said Kate . 
I dare say it was , said Emilia I have been asking it all my life . 
Her eyes grew very moist , what with fatigue and excitement . 
But just then , as is apt to happen in this world , they were all suddenly recalled from tears to tea , and the children smothered their curiosity in strawberries and cream . 
They sat again beside the western door , after tea . 
The young moon came from a cloud and dropped a broad path of glory upon the bay a black yacht glided noiselessly in , and anchored amid this tract of splendor . 
The shadow of its masts was on the luminous surface , while their reflection lay at a different angle , and seemed to penetrate far below . 
This jewelled wonder passing , a single fishing boat drifted silently by , with its one dark sail and then the moon and the anchored yacht were left alone . 
Presently some of the luggage came from the wharf . 
Malbone brought out presents for everybody then all the family went to Europe in photographs , and with some reluctance came back to America for bed . 
This post was filled in Oldport , in those days , by my cousin Kate . 
Born into the world with many other gifts , this last and least definable gift of popularity was added to complete them all . 
She was one of those persons who seem to have come into the world well dressed . 
There was an atmosphere of elegance around her , like a costume every attitude implied a presence chamber or a ball room . 
The girls complained that in private theatricals no combination of disguises could reduce Kate to the ranks , nor give her the make up of a waiting maid . 
Without a particle of vanity or fear , secure in health and good nature and invariable prettiness , she cared little whether the appointed means of grace were ancient silk or modern muslin . 
There was one particular tarlatan dress of hers which was a sort of local institution . 
It was known to all her companions , like the State House . 
There was a report that she had first worn it at her christening the report originated with herself . 
During these epochs of privation her life , in respect to dress , was a perpetual Christmas tree of second hand gifts . 
Wealthy aunts supplied her with cast off shoes of all sizes , from two and a half up to five , and she used them all . 
She was reported to have worn one straw hat through five changes of fashion . 
Well might they acquiesce , for she stood by them superbly , and her most favored partners found no way to her hand so sure as to dance systematically through that staid sisterhood . 
You could not picture Hope to your mind in one position more than in another she had an endless variety of easy motion . 
When you thought of Kate , you remembered precisely how she sat , how she stood , and how she walked . 
That was all , and it was always the same . 
She always declared , indeed , that they were born married , and that their wedding day would seem like a silver wedding . 
Harry was quiet , unobtrusive , and manly . 
He might seem commonplace at first beside the brilliant Kate and his more gifted sister but thorough manhood is never commonplace , and he was a person to whom one could anchor . 
His strong , steadfast physique was the type of his whole nature when he came into the room , you felt as if a good many people had been added to the company . 
He made steady progress in his profession of the law , through sheer worth he never dazzled , but he led . 
His type was pure Saxon , with short , curling hair , blue eyes , and thin , fair skin , to which the color readily mounted . 
Up to a certain point he was imperturbably patient and amiable , but , when overtaxed , was fiery and impetuous for a single instant , and no more . 
Kate's love for her lover was one of those healthy and assured ties that often outlast the ardors of more passionate natures . 
For other temperaments it might have been inadequate but theirs matched perfectly , and it was all sufficient for them . 
If there was within Kate's range a more heroic and ardent emotion than that inspired by Harry , it was put forth toward Hope . 
Harry shared this adoration to quite a reasonable extent , for a brother but his admiration for Philip Malbone was one that Kate did not quite share . 
Harry's quieter mood had been dazzled from childhood by Philip , who had always been a privileged guest in the household . 
But Harry was magnetized by him very much as women were believed him true , because he was tender , and called him only fastidious where Kate called him lazy . 
Kate was spending that summer with her aunt Jane , whose especial pet and pride she was . 
Hope was spending there the summer vacation of a Normal School in which she had just become a teacher . 
Her father had shared in the family ups and downs , but had finally stayed down , while the rest had remained up . 
The elder brother and sister had alike that fine physical vigor which New England is now developing , just in time to save it from decay . 
Her brow was sometimes criticised as being a little too full for a woman but her nose was straight , her mouth and teeth beautiful , and her profile almost perfect . 
Her complexion had lost by out door life something of its delicacy , but had gained a freshness and firmness that no sunlight could impair . 
She had that wealth of hair which young girls find the most enviable point of beauty in each other . 
Hers reached below her knees , when loosened , or else lay coiled , in munificent braids of gold , full of sparkling lights and contrasted shadows , upon her queenly head . 
Her long lashes were somewhat like Emilia's , and she had the same deeply curved eyebrows in no other point was there a shade of resemblance between the half sisters . 
Kate seemed born to tread upon a Brussels carpet , and Hope on the softer luxury of the forest floor . 
Out of doors her vigor became a sort of ecstasy , and she walked the earth with a jubilee of the senses , such as Browning attributes to his Saul . 
This inexhaustible freshness of physical organization seemed to open the windows of her soul , and make for her a new heaven and earth every day . 
It was not so much that she said rare things , but her very silence was eloquent , and there was a great deal of it . 
Her girlhood had in it a certain dignity as of a virgin priestess or sibyl . 
Yet her hearty sympathies and her healthy energy made her at home in daily life , and in a democratic society . 
To Kate , for instance , she was a necessity of existence , like light or air . 
Kate's nature was limited part of her graceful equipoise was narrowness . 
Yet in daily life Hope yielded to her cousin nine times out of ten but the tenth time was the key to the situation . 
Hope loved Kate devotedly but Kate believed in her as the hunted fugitive believes in the north star . 
To these maidens , thus united , came Emilia home from Europe . 
The father of Harry and Hope had been lured into a second marriage with Emilia's mother , a charming and unscrupulous woman , born with an American body and a French soul . 
She having once won him to Paris , held him there life long , and kept her step children at a safe distance . 
It was by weaning her heart from this man that Philip Malbone had earned the thanks of the whole household during his hasty flight through Europe . 
He possessed some skill in withdrawing the female heart from an undesirable attachment , though it was apt to be done by substituting another . 
It was fortunate that , in this case , no fears could be entertained . 
A DRIVE ON THE AVENUE . 
Sometimes a faint suspicion suggests itself on the Avenue , that these torpid countenances might be roused to life , in case some horse should run away . 
But that one chance never occurs the riders may not yet be toned down into perfect breeding , but the horses are . 
And such a joyous company were our four youths and maidens when they went to drive that day , Emilia being left at home to rest after the fatigues of the voyage . 
What beautiful horses ! was Hope's first exclamation . 
What grave people ! was her second . 
What though in solemn silence all Roll round quoted Philip . 
Hope is thinking , said Harry , whether 'in reason's ear they all rejoice . 
How COULD you know that ? said she , opening her eyes . 
One thing always strikes me , said Kate . 
The sentence of stupefaction does not seem to be enforced till after five and twenty . 
That young lady we just met looked quite lively and juvenile last year , I remember , and now she has graduated into a dowager . 
Like little Helen's kitten , said Philip . 
She justly remarks that , since I saw it last , it is all spoiled into a great big cat . 
Those must be snobs , said Harry , as a carriage with unusually gorgeous liveries rolled by . 
I suppose so , said Malbone , indifferently . 
In Oldport we call all new comers snobs , you know , till they have invited us to their grand ball . 
Then we go to it , and afterwards speak well of them , and only abuse their wine . 
How do you know them for new comers ? asked Hope , looking after the carriage . 
By their improperly intelligent expression , returned Phil . 
They look around them as you do , my child , with the air of wide awake curiosity which marks the American traveller . 
That is out of place here . 
The Avenue abhors everything but a vacuum . 
I never can find out , continued Hope , how people recognize each other here . 
But it is supposed that fashion perforates the eyelids and looks through . 
If you attempt it in any other way , you are lost . 
Newly arrived people look about them , and , the more new wealth they have , the more they gaze . 
The men are uneasy behind their recently educated mustaches , and the women hold their parasols with trembling hands . 
It takes two years to learn to drive on the Avenue . 
Come again next summer , and you will see in those same carriages faces of remote superciliousness , that suggest generations of gout and ancestors . 
Fashion lies in the eye . 
People fix their own position by the way they don't look at you . 
There is a certain indifference of manner , philosophized Malbone , before which ingenuous youth is crushed . 
I may know that a man can hardly read or write , and that his father was a ragpicker till one day he picked up bank notes for a million . 
If he does not take the trouble to look at me , I must look reverentially at him . 
Here is somebody who will look at Hope , cried Kate , suddenly . 
A carriage passed , bearing a young lady with fair hair , and a keen , bright look , talking eagerly to a small and quiet youth beside her . 
The lady waved an un gloved hand , and drove by . 
Who is that ? asked Philip , eagerly . 
He was used to knowing every one . 
Hope's pet , said Kate , and she who pets Hope , Lady Antwerp . 
Is it possible ? said Malbone . 
That young creature ? I fancied her ladyship in spectacles , with little side curls . 
Men speak of her with such dismay . 
Of course , said Kate , she asks them sensible questions . 
That is bad , admitted Philip . 
Nothing exasperates fashionable Americans like a really intelligent foreigner . 
They feel as Sydney Smith says the English clergy felt about Elizabeth Fry she disturbs their repose , and gives rise to distressing comparisons , they long to burn her alive . 
It is not their notion of a countess . 
I am sure it was not mine , said Hope I can hardly remember that she is one I only know that I like her , she is so simple and intelligent . 
She might be a girl from a Normal School . 
It is because you are just that , said Kate , that she likes you . 
She came here supposing that we had all been at such schools . 
Then she complained of us , us girls in what we call good society , I mean , because , as she more than hinted , we did not seem to know anything . 
Some of the mothers were angry , said Hope . 
She said that she had forgotten all she learned at school except the boundaries of ancient Cappadocia . 
The brilliant equipages which they met each moment were not wholly uninteresting even to her , for her affections went forth to some of the riders and to all the horses . 
She had a perfectly high bred look , and an eye that in an instant would calculate one's ancestors as far back as Nebuchadnezzar , and bow to them all together . 
She smiled good naturedly on Hope , and kissed her hand to Kate . 
So , Hope , said Philip , you are bent on teaching music to Mrs. Meredith's children . 
Indeed I am ! said Hope , eagerly . 
O Philip , I shall enjoy it so ! I do not care so very much about her , but she has dear little girls . 
And you know I am a born drudge . 
Hope , said Philip , gravely , look steadily at these people whom we are meeting , and reflect . 
Should you like to have them say , 'There goes Mrs. Meredith's music teacher' ? Why not ? said Hope , with surprise . 
The children are young , and it is not very presumptuous . 
I ought to know enough for that . 
Malbone looked at Kate , who smiled with delight , and put her hand on that of Hope . 
They met the four white horses of an ex harness maker , and the superb harnesses of an ex horse dealer . 
Behind these came the gayest and most plebeian equipage of all , a party of journeymen carpenters returning from their work in a four horse wagon . 
Their work seemed like play , while the play around them seemed like work . 
Indeed , most people on the Avenue seemed to be happy in inverse ratio to their income list . 
Philip looked hard at one of these gentlemen . 
I have seen that young fellow before , said he , or his twin brother . 
But who can swear to the personal identity of a Frenchman ? IV . 
AUNT JANE DEFINES HER POSITION . 
THE next morning had that luminous morning haze , not quite dense enough to be called a fog , which is often so lovely in Oldport . 
The pale haze extended into the foreground , and half veiled the schooners that lay at anchor with their sails up . 
It was sultry , and there was something in the atmosphere that at once threatened and soothed . 
Sometimes a few drops dimpled the water and then ceased the muttering creature in the sky moved northward and grew still . 
It was a day when every one would be tempted to go out rowing , but when only lovers would go . 
Kate and Harry , meanwhile , awaited their opportunity to go in and visit Aunt Jane . 
She hated to be hurried in dressing , too for she was accustomed to say that she must have leisure to understand herself , and this was clearly an affair of time . 
Every day she expected something entirely new to happen , and was never disappointed . 
Her book that morning had displeased her , and she was boiling with indignation against its author . 
I am reading a book so dry , she said , it makes me cough . 
No wonder there was a drought last summer . 
Worcester's Geography seems in my memory as fascinating as Shakespeare , when I look back upon it from this book . 
How can a man write such a thing and live ? Perhaps he lived by writing it , said Kate . 
Perhaps it was the best he could do , added the more literal Harry . 
It certainly was not the best he could do , for he might have died , died instead of dried . 
What is it ? asked Kate . 
Somebody's memoirs , said Aunt Jane . 
Was there no man left worth writing about , that they should make a biography about this one ? It is like a life of Napoleon with all the battles left out . 
They are conceited enough to put his age in the upper corner of each page too , as if anybody cared how old he was . 
Such pretty covers ! said Kate . 
Yes , said Aunt Jane . 
I mean to send them back and have new leaves put in . 
These are so wretched , there is not a teakettle in the land so insignificant that it would boil over them . 
Don't let us talk any more about it . 
Have Philip and Hope gone out upon the water ? Yes , dear , said Kate . 
Then how did you know ? Of course I heard the boat hauled down , and of course I knew that none but lovers would go out just before a thunder storm . 
Then you and Harry came in , and I knew it was the others . 
Now she is fishing for compliments , said Kate , and she shall have one . 
She was very sweet and good to Philip last night . 
I know it , said Aunt Jane , with a groan . 
I waked in the night and thought about it . 
I was awake a great deal last night . 
I have heard cocks crowing all my life , but I never knew what that creature could accomplish before . 
So I lay and thought how good and forgiving I was it was quite distressing . 
I hate to be a saint all the time . 
There ought to be vacations . 
Instead of suffering from a bad conscience , I suffer from a good one . 
It was no merit of yours , aunt , put in Harry . 
Of course he is lovable , and that is why I dislike him . 
His father was so before him . 
That is the worst of it . 
I never in my life saw any harm done by a villain I wish I could . 
All the mischief in this world is done by lovable people . 
But , aunt , persisted Harry , if you only knew what the mass of young men are Don't I ? interrupted the impetuous lady . 
Lord help the rest ! she answered . 
Philip has a sort of refinement instead of principles , and a heart instead of a conscience , just heart enough to keep himself happy and everybody else miserable . 
Do you mean to say , asked the obstinate Hal , that there is no difference between refinement and coarseness ? Yes , there is , she said . 
Well , which is best ? Coarseness is safer by a great deal , said Aunt Jane , in the hands of a man like Philip . 
Which Philip does not , said Hal . 
Did I say he was a hypocrite ? she cried . 
He is worse than that at least , more really dangerous . 
You are growing very profane indeed . 
I have a much harder time than any coachman , Kate , retorted the injured lady . 
Nobody tries to stop him , and you are always hushing me up . 
Hushing you up , darling ? said Kate . 
When we only spoil you by praising and quoting everything you say . 
Only when it amuses you , said Aunt Jane . 
Do not interfere , Kate , said Hal . 
Aunt Jane and I only wish to understand each other . 
I am sure we don't , said Aunt Jane I have no desire to understand you , and you never will understand me till you comprehend Philip . 
Let us agree on one thing , Harry said . 
Surely , aunt , you know how he loves Hope ? Aunt Jane approached a degree nearer the equator , and said , gently , I fear I do . 
Fear ? Yes , fear . 
That is just what troubles me . 
I know precisely how he loves her . 
Philip likes to be petted , as much as any cat , and , while he will purr , Hope is happy . 
Very few men accept idolatry with any degree of grace , but he unfortunately does . 
Unfortunately ? remonstrated Hal , as far as ever from being satisfied . 
This is really too bad . 
You never will do him any justice . 
Ah ? said Aunt Jane , chilling again , I thought I did . 
I observe he is very much afraid of me , and there seems to be no other reason . 
The real trouble is , said Harry , after a pause , that you doubt his constancy . 
What do you call constancy ? said she . 
Kissing a woman's picture ten years after a man has broken her heart ? Philip Malbone has that kind of constancy , and so had his father before him . 
PHILIP MALBONE had that perfectly sunny temperament which is peculiarly captivating among Americans , because it is so rare . 
He liked everybody and everybody liked him he had a thousand ways of affording pleasure , and he received it in the giving . 
He had a personal beauty , which , strange to say , was recognized by both sexes , for handsome men must often consent to be mildly hated by their own . 
He had travelled much , and had mingled in very varied society he had a moderate fortune , no vices , no ambition , and no capacity of ennui . 
He was fastidious and over critical , it might be , in his theories , but in practice he was easily suited and never vexed . 
He liked to be with people of his own age , whatever their condition he also liked old people because they were old , and children because they were young . 
His courtesy , had , therefore , that comprehensiveness which we call republican , though it was really the least republican thing about him . 
But he liked just as well to note the ways of well dressed girls and boys at croquet parties , or to sit at the club window and hear the gossip . 
He was a jewel of a listener , and was not easily bored even when Philadelphians talked about families , or New Yorkers about bargains , or Bostonians about books . 
His friends' children ran after him in the street , and he knew the pet theories and wines of elderly gentlemen . 
He said that he won their hearts by remembering every occurrence in their lives except their birthdays . 
The reproach was unjust he had never done anything systematically in his life it was his temperament that flirted , not his will . 
He simply had that most perilous of all seductive natures , in which the seducer is himself seduced . 
With a personal refinement that almost amounted to purity , he was constantly drifting into loves more profoundly perilous than if they had belonged to a grosser man . 
Almost all women loved him , because he loved almost all he never had to assume an ardor , for he always felt it . 
In truth , he loved to explore those sweet depths humanity is the highest thing to investigate , he said , and the proper study of mankind is woman . 
Woman needs to be studied while under the influence of emotion let us therefore have the emotions . 
This was the reason he gave to himself but this refined Mormonism of the heart was not based on reason , but on temperament and habit . 
In such matters logic is only for the by standers . 
To do him justice , he would have done almost as much for them , for any of them . 
To those who had given him all that an undivided heart can give he would deny nothing but an undivided heart in return . 
The misfortune was that this was the only thing they cared to possess . 
This abundant and spontaneous feeling gave him an air of earnestness , without which he could not have charmed any woman , and , least of all , one like Hope . 
No woman really loves a trifler she must at least convince herself that he who trifles with others is serious with her . 
To love a charming woman in her presence is no test of genuine passion let us know how much you long for her in absence . 
This longing had never yet seriously troubled Malbone , provided there was another charming person within an easy walk . 
He was very winning and generous in his repentances , and he enjoyed them so much they were often repeated . 
There was for him something piquant in being thus neither innocent nor guilty , but always on some delicious middle ground . 
He loved dearly to skate on thin ice , that was the trouble , especially where he fancied the water to be just within his depth . 
Unluckily the sea of life deepens rather fast . 
She had been very fond of the young girl , and her last earthly act was to place Hope's hand in Philip's . 
Long before this final consecration , Hope had won his heart more thoroughly , he fancied , than any woman he had ever seen . 
The secret of this crowning charm was , perhaps , that she was a new sensation . 
He had prided himself on his knowledge of her sex , and yet here was a wholly new species . 
He was acquainted with the women of society , and with the women who only wished to be in society . 
Never had he known a young girl who cared for the things which this maiden sought , or who was not dazzled by things to which Hope seemed perfectly indifferent . 
She was not a devotee , she was not a prude people seemed to amuse and interest her she liked them , she declared , as much as she liked books . 
But this very way of putting the thing seemed like inverting the accustomed order of affairs in the polite world , and was of itself a novelty . 
But that Hope loved him ardently there was no doubt , however it might be explained . 
Perhaps it was some law of opposites , and she needed some one of lighter nature than her own . 
In her just indignation at those who called him heartless , she forgot to notice that his heart was not deep . 
People usually loved Philip , even while they criticised him but Hope loved him first , and then could not criticise him at all . 
Nature seems always planning to equalize characters , and to protect our friends from growing too perfect for our deserts . 
Love , for instance , is apt to strengthen the weak , and yet sometimes weakens the strong . 
Under its influence Hope sometimes appeared at disadvantage . 
Not that in his presence she became vain or petty or jealous that would have been impossible . 
She only grew credulous and absorbed and blind . 
A kind of gentle obstinacy , too , developed itself in her nature , and all suggestion of defects in him fell off from her as from a marble image of Faith . 
If he said or did anything , there was no appeal that was settled , let us pass to something else . 
I like it better , my dear , she said , with her usual frankness , to Kate . 
Hope was altogether too heavenly for my style . 
When she first came here , I secretly thought I never should care anything about her . 
She seemed nothing but a little moral tale . 
I thought she would not last me five minutes . 
But now she is growing quite human and ridiculous about that Philip , and I think I may find her very attractive indeed . 
HOPE ! said Philip Malbone , as they sailed together in a little boat the next morning , I have come back to you from months of bewildered dreaming . 
I have been wandering , no matter where . 
You cannot tell how much I need you . 
I can estimate it , she answered , gently , by my need of you . 
Not at all , said Philip , gazing in her trustful face . 
Any one whom you loved would adore you , could he be by your side . 
It is I who need you . 
Why ? she asked , simply . 
Because , he said , I am capable of behaving very much like a fool . 
Hope , I am not worthy of you why do you love me ? why do you trust me ? I do not know how I learned to love you , said Hope . 
It is a blessing that was given to me . 
But I learned to trust you in your mother's sick room . 
Ay , said Philip , sadly , there , at least , I did my full duty . 
As few would have done it , said Hope , firmly , very few . 
Such prolonged self sacrifice must strengthen a man for life . 
Not always , said Philip , uneasily . 
Too much of that sort of thing may hurt one , I fancy , as well as too little . 
He may come to imagine that the balance of virtue is in his favor , and that he may grant himself a little indulgence to make up for lost time . 
You always seemed to me a magician , but I did not think that even you could restore her to sense and wisdom so soon . 
She has always been a sort of dream to me , and the difficulty of getting any letters from her has only added to the excitement . 
Now that she is here , my whole heart yearns toward her . 
Yet , when I look into her eyes , a sort of blank hopelessness comes over me . 
They seem like the eyes of some untamable creature whose language I shall never learn . 
Philip , you are older and wiser than I , and have shown already that you understand her . 
I am beginning to fear that it can be helped , she said . 
Her thoughts were still with Emilia . 
Perhaps it can , said Phil , if you sit so far away from people . 
Here we are alone on the bay . 
Come and sit by me , Hope . 
She had been sitting amidships , but she came aft at once , and nestled by him as he sat holding the tiller . 
It is you who do me good , said she . 
O Philip , sail as slowly as you can . 
The tide was in and brimming , the fishing boats were busy , white gulls soared and clattered round them , and heavy cormorants flapped away as they neared the rocks . 
Beneath the boat the soft multitudinous jellyfishes waved their fringed pendants , or glittered with tremulous gold along their pink , translucent sides . 
They reached the ruined fort at last , and Philip , surrendering Hope to others , was himself besieged by a joyous group . 
I know of no ruin in America which nature has so resumed it seems a part of the living rock you cannot imagine it away . 
It is a single round , low tower , shaped like the tomb of Cacilia Metella . 
But its stately position makes it rank with the vast sisterhood of wave washed strongholds it might be King Arthur's Cornish Tyntagel it might be the teocallis tower of Tuloom . 
As you gaze down from its height , all things that float upon the ocean seem equalized . 
Look at the crowded life on yonder frigate , coming in full sailed before the steady sea breeze . 
Yonder there sail to the ocean , beating wearily to windward , a few slow vessels . 
Inward come jubilant white schooners , wing and wing . 
There are fishing smacks towing their boats behind them like a family of children and there are slender yachts that bear only their own light burden . 
Within , the tower is full of debris , now disintegrated into one solid mass , and covered with vegetation . 
You can lie on the blossoming clover , where the bees hum and the crickets chirp around you , and can look through the arch which frames its own fair picture . 
In the foreground lies the steep slope overgrown with bayberry and gay with thistle blooms then the little winding cove with its bordering cliffs and the rough pastures with their grazing sheep beyond . 
The conversation that day was very gay and incoherent , little fragments of all manner of things science , sentiment , everything Like a distracted dictionary , Kate said . 
At last this lively maiden got Philip away from the rest , and began to cross question him . 
Tell me , she said , about Emilia's Swiss lover . 
She shuddered when she spoke of him . 
Was he so very bad ? Not at all , was the answer . 
You had false impressions of him . 
He was a handsome , manly fellow , a little over sentimental . 
He had travelled , and had been a merchant's clerk in Paris and London . 
Then he came back , and became a boatman on the lake , some said , for love of her . 
Did she love him ? Passionately , as she thought . 
Did he love her much ? I suppose so . 
Then why did she stop loving him ? She does not hate him ? No , said Kate , that is what surprises me . 
Lovers hate , or those who have been lovers . 
Philip , she had wound silk upon a torn piece of his carte de visite , and did not know it till I showed it to her . 
Even then she did not care . 
Such is woman ! said Philip . 
She had seen somebody whom she loved better , and she still loves that somebody . 
Who was it ? She had not been introduced into society . 
There were some very superior men among them , said Philip . 
Professor Schirmer has a European reputation he wears blue spectacles and a maroon wig . 
Do not talk so , said Kate . 
I tell you , Emilia is not changeable , like you , sir . 
She is passionate and constant . 
She would have married that man or died for him . 
You may think that your sage counsels restrained her , but they did not it was that she loved some one else . 
Do you not know that there is somebody in Europe whom she loves to distraction ? I do not know it , said Philip . 
Of course you do not KNOW it , returned the questioner . 
Do you not think it ? I have no reason to believe it . 
That has nothing to do with it , said Kate . 
Things that we believe without any reason have a great deal more weight with us . 
Do you not believe it ? No , said Philip , point blank . 
It is very strange , mused Kate . 
Of course you do not know much about it . 
If you did it without that , you are a magician , as Hope once called you . 
Philip , I am afraid of you . 
There we sympathize , said Phil . 
I am sometimes afraid of myself , but I discover within half an hour what a very commonplace land harmless person I am . 
Meantime Emilia found herself beside her sister , who was sketching . 
After watching Hope for a time in silence , she began to question her . 
Tell me what you have been doing in all these years , she said . 
O , I have been at school , said Hope . 
Then I persuaded them to let me go to the Normal School for two years , and learn to be a teacher . 
A teacher ! said Emilia , with surprise . 
Is it necessary that you should be a teacher ? Very necessary , replied Hope . 
I must have something to do , you know , after I leave school . 
To do ? said the other . 
Cannot you go to parties ? Not all the time , said her sister . 
I can find time for that too , little sister , when I need them . 
But I love children , you know , and I like to teach interesting studies . 
I have splendid health , and I enjoy it all . 
I like it as you love dancing , my child , only I like dancing too , so I have a greater variety of enjoyments . 
But shall you not sometimes find it very hard ? said Emilia . 
That is why I shall like it , was the answer . 
What a girl you are ! exclaimed the younger sister . 
You know everything and can do everything . 
A very short everything , interposed Hope . 
If we both had French partners , dear , replied the elder maiden , they would soon find the difference in both respects . 
My dancing came by nature , I believe , and I learned French as a child , by talking with my old uncle , who was half a Parisian . 
I believe I have a good accent , but I have so little practice that I have no command of the language compared to yours . 
The calm day waned , the sun drooped to his setting amid a few golden bars and pencilled lines of light . 
Ere they were ready for departure , the tide had ebbed , and , in getting the boats to a practicable landing place , Malbone was delayed behind the others . 
As he at length brought his boat to the rock , Hope sat upon the ruined fort , far above him , and sang . 
All sacredness and sweetness , all that was pure and brave and truthful , seemed to rest in her . 
Later that evening , after the household had separated , Hope went into the empty drawing room for a light . 
Philip , after a moment's hesitation , followed her , and paused in the doorway . 
Looking up , she saw his eager glance then she colored , trembled , and put the candle down . 
He came to her , took her hand and kissed it , then put his hand upon her brow and gazed into her face , then kissed her lips . 
She quietly yielded , but her color came and went , and her lips moved as if to speak . 
For a moment he saw her only , thought only of her . 
Then , even while he gazed into her eyes , a flood of other memories surged over him , and his own eyes grew dim . 
There was a thrill of infinite ecstasy in the work his imagination did he gave it rein , then suddenly drew it in and looked at Hope . 
Her touch brought pain for an instant , as she laid her hand upon him , but he bore it . 
Then he took from a little folded paper a long tress of dark silken hair , and , without trusting himself to kiss it , held it firmly in the candle . 
It crisped and sparkled , and sent out a pungent odor , then turned and writhed between his fingers , like a living thing in pain . 
What part of us has earthly immortality but our hair ? It dies not with death . 
These shrinking hairs , they feared not death , but they seemed to fear Malbone . 
Nothing but the hand of man could destroy what he was destroying but his hand shrank not , and it was done . 
On the whole , the evening opened gayly . 
The admiral and the fleet captain were soon turned over to Hope , who spoke French as she did English , with quiet grace . 
She found them agreeable companions , while Emilia drifted among the elder midshipmen , who were dazzling in gold lace if not in intellect . 
Kate fell to the share of a vehement little surgeon , who danced her out of breath . 
Harry officiated as interpreter between the governor of the State and a lively young ensign , who yearned for the society of dignitaries . 
The governor was quite aware that he himself could not speak French the Frenchman was quite unaware that he himself could not speak English but with Harry's aid they plunged boldly into conversation . 
The young Frenchman was far more definite , when requested by the governor to state in English the precise number of men engaged on board the corvette . 
With the accuracy of his nation , he beamingly replied , Seeshun dredtousand . 
There were European diplomatists who spoke English perfectly there were travellers who spoke no English at all and as usual each guest sought to practise himself in the tongue he knew least . 
He had been but a month or two in this country , and so spoke our language no more correctly than Mrs. Brash , but only with more grace . 
There was no great harm in Mrs. Brash like most loquacious people , she was kind hearted , with a tendency to corpulence and good works . 
She was also afflicted with a high color , and a chronic eruption of diamonds . 
What goes forth from the lips may vary in dialect , but wine and oysters speak the universal language . 
The supper table brought our party together , and they compared notes . 
Parties are very confusing , philosophized Hope , especially when waiters and partners dress so much alike . 
Just now I saw an ill looking man elbowing his way up to Mrs. Meredith , and I thought he was bringing her something on a plate . 
Instead of that , it was his hand he held out , and she put hers into it and I was told that he was one of the leaders of society . 
There are very few gentlemen here whom I could positively tell from the waiters by their faces , and yet Harry says the fast set are not here . 
Talk of the angels ! said Philip . 
She was dressed in the loveliest pale blue silk , very low in the neck , and she seemed to smile on all with her white teeth and her white shoulders . 
With her came her daughter Blanche , a pretty blonde , whose bearing seemed at first as innocent and pastoral as her name . 
Her dress was of spotless white , what there was of it and her skin was so snowy , you could hardly tell where the dress ended . 
, into whose antecedents it was best not to inquire too closely . 
After many ups and downs , she was at present up . 
It was difficult to state with certainty what bad deed she had ever done , or what good deed . 
She simply lived by her wits , and perhaps by some want of that article in her male friends . 
Her house was a sort of gentlemanly clubhouse , where the presence of two women offered a shade less restraint than if there had been men alone . 
She was amiable and unscrupulous , went regularly to church , and needed only money to be the most respectable and fastidious of women . 
Meantime the entertainment went on . 
I shall not have scalloped oysters in heaven , lamented Kate , as she finished with healthy appetite her first instalment . 
Are you sure you shall not ? said the sympathetic Hope , who would have eagerly followed Kate into Paradise with a supply of whatever she liked best . 
At this moment Blanche Ingleside and her train swept into the supper room the girls cleared a passage , their attendant youths collected chairs . 
Blanche tilted hers slightly against a wall , professed utter exhaustion , and demanded a fresh bottle of champagne in a voice that showed no signs of weakness . 
Presently a sheepish youth drew near the noisy circle . 
Here comes that Talbot van Alsted , said Blanche , bursting at last into a loud whisper . 
What a goose he is , to be sure ! Dear baby , it promised its mother it wouldn't drink wine for two months . 
Let's all drink with him . 
Talbot , my boy , just in time ! Fill your glass . 
Then they looked round for fresh worlds to conquer . 
There are the Maxwells ! said Miss Ingleside , without lowering her voice . 
That Emily who is with her is too good for that slow set . 
She's the school girl we heard of at Nice , or somewhere she wanted to elope with somebody , and Phil Malbone stopped her , worse luck . 
She will be for eloping with us , before long . 
Emilia colored scarlet , and gave a furtive glance at Hope , half of shame , half of triumph . 
Hope looked at Blanche with surprise , made a movement forward , but was restrained by the crowd , while the noisy damsel broke out in a different direction . 
How fiendishly hot it is here , though ! Jones junior , put your elbow through that window ! This champagne is boiling . 
There was the usual array of partners , distributed by mysterious discrepancies , like soldiers' uniforms , so that all the tall drew short , and all the short had tall . 
The young people lingered extravagantly late at that ball , for the corvette was to sail next day , and the girls were willing to make the most of it . 
As they came to the outer door , the dawn was inexpressibly beautiful , deep rose melting into saffron , beneath a tremulous morning star . 
With a sudden impulse , they agreed to walk home , the fresh air seemed so delicious . 
Philip and Emilia went first , outstripping the others . 
Passing the Jewish cemetery , Kate and Harry paused a moment . 
There is a grave in that cemetery , said Kate , gently , where lovers should always be sitting . 
It lies behind that tall monument I cannot see it for the blossoming boughs . 
There were two young cousins who loved each other from childhood , but were separated , because Jews do not allow such unions . 
Neither of them was ever married and they lived to be very old , the one in New Orleans , the other at the North . 
That is his monument , and her grave was made behind it there was no room for a stone . 
Kate moved a step or two , that she might see the graves . 
AUNT JANE was eager to hear about the ball , and called everybody into her breakfast parlor the next morning . 
She was still hesitating about her bill of fare . 
I wish somebody would invent a new animal , she burst forth . 
How those sheep bleated last night ! I know it was an expression of shame for providing such tiresome food . 
You must not be so carnally minded , dear , said Kate . 
You must be very good and grateful , and not care for your breakfast . 
Somebody says that mutton chops with wit are a great deal better than turtle without . 
A very foolish somebody , pronounced Aunt Jane . 
I have had a great deal of wit in my life , and very little turtle . 
Dear child , do not excite me with impossible suggestions . 
There are dropped eggs , I might have those . 
They look so beautifully , if it only were not necessary to eat them . 
Yes , I will certainly have dropped eggs . 
I think Ruth could drop them she drops everything else . 
Poor little Ruth ! said Kate . 
Not yet grown up ! She will never grow up , said Aunt Jane , but she thinks she is a woman she even thinks she has a lover . 
O that in early life I had provided myself with a pair of twins from some asylum then I should have had some one to wait on me . 
Perhaps they would have been married too , said Kate . 
They should never have been married , retorted Aunt Jane . 
They should have signed a paper at five years old to do no such thing . 
Yesterday I told a lady that I was enraged that a servant should presume to have a heart , and the woman took it seriously and began to argue with me . 
To think of living in a town where one person could be so idiotic ! Such a town ought to be extinguished from the universe . 
Auntie ! said Kate , sternly , you must grow more charitable . 
Must I ? said Aunt Jane it will not be at all becoming . 
I have thought about it often have I weighed it in my mind whether to be monotonously lovely but I have always thrust it away . 
It must make life so tedious . 
It is too late for me to change , at least , anything about me but my countenance , and that changes the wrong way . 
Yet I feel so young and fresh I look in my glass every morning to see if I have not a new face , but it never comes . 
I am not what is called well favored . 
In fact , I am not favored at all . 
Tell me about the party . 
What shall I tell ? said Kate . 
Tell me what people were there , said Aunt Jane , and how they were dressed who were the happiest and who the most miserable . 
I think I would rather hear about the most miserable , at least , till I have my breakfast . 
The most miserable person I saw , said Kate , was Mrs. Meredith . 
It was very amusing to hear her and Hope talk at cross purposes . 
You know her daughter Helen is in Paris , and the mother seemed very sad about her . 
A lady was asking if something or other were true 'Too true , said Mrs. Meredith 'with every opportunity she has had no real success . 
It was not the poor child's fault . 
She was properly presented but as yet she has had no success at all . 
Hope looked up , full of sympathy . 
She thought Helen must be some disappointed school teacher , and felt an interest in her immediately . 
'Will there not be another examination ? she asked . 
'What an odd phrase , said Mrs. Meredith , looking rather disdainfully at Hope . 
'No , I suppose we must give it up , if that is what you mean . 
The only remaining chance is in the skating . 
I had particular attention paid to Helen's skating on that very account . 
Then the other lady said , solemnly , 'My dear Mrs. Meredith , it is too true . 
No one can tell how things will turn out in society . 
Hope understood it all then , but she took it very calmly . 
I was so indignant , I could hardly help speaking . 
I wanted to say that it was outrageous . 
Naughty Americans try it prematurely , and go while they are alive . 
Then Paris casts them out , and when they come back , their French disrepute is their stock in trade . 
I think , said the cheerful Hope , that it is not quite so bad . 
Hope always thought things not so bad . 
I was very dull not to know what Mrs. Meredith was talking about . 
Helen Meredith is a warm hearted , generous girl , and will not go far wrong , though her mother is not as wise as she is well bred . 
But Kate forgets that the few hundred people one sees here or at Paris do not represent the nation , after all . 
The most influential part of it , said Emilia . 
Are you sure , dear ? said her sister . 
I do not think they influence it half so much as a great many people who are too busy to go to either place . 
They have not had the same advantages , said Emilia . 
Nor the same disadvantages , said Hope . 
Some of them are not so well bred , and none of them speak French so well , for she speaks exquisitely . 
But in all that belongs to real training of the mind , they seem to me superior , and that is why I think they will have more influence . 
None of them are rich , though , I suppose , said Emilia , nor of very nice families , or they would not be teachers . 
So they will not be so prominent in society . 
But they may yet become very prominent in society , said Hope , they or their pupils or their children . 
At any rate , it is as certain that the noblest lives will have most influence in the end , as that two and two make four . 
Is that certain ? said Philip . 
Perhaps there are worlds where two and two do not make just that desirable amount . 
I trust there are , said Aunt Jane . 
Perhaps I was intended to be born in one of them , and that is why my housekeeping accounts never add up . 
Here hope was called away , and Emilia saucily murmured , Sour grapes ! Not a bit of it ! cried Kate , indignantly . 
Count Posen told me , only yesterday , that there was not a girl in Oldport with such an air as hers . 
Not Kate herself ? said Emilia , slyly . 
What am I ? A silly chit of a thing , with about a dozen ideas in my head , nearly every one of which was planted there by Hope . 
I like the nonsense of the world very well as it is , and without her I should have cared for nothing else . 
Count Posen asked me the other day , which country produced on the whole the most womanly women , France or America . 
He is one of the few foreigners who expect a rational answer . 
Do not begin upon Hope , said Aunt Jane . 
It is the only subject on which Kate can be tedious . 
Tell me about the dresses . 
Were people over dressed or under dressed ? Under dressed , said Phil . 
Miss Ingleside had a half inch strip of muslin over her shoulder . 
Here Philip followed Hope out of the room , and Emilia presently followed him . 
Tell on ! said Aunt Jane . 
How did Philip enjoy himself ? He is easily amused , you know , said Kate . 
He likes to observe people , and to shoot folly as it flies . 
It does not fly , retorted the elder lady . 
You can shoot it sitting , at least where Philip is . 
Auntie , said Kate , tell me truly your objection to Philip . 
I think you did not like his parents . 
Had he not a good mother ? She was good , said Aunt Jane , reluctantly , but it was that kind of goodness which is quite offensive . 
And did you know his father well ? Know him ! exclaimed Aunt Jane . 
I should think I did . 
I have sat up all night to hate him . 
That was very wrong , said Kate , decisively . 
You do not mean that . 
You only mean that you did not admire him very much . 
I never admired a dozen people in my life , Kate . 
I once made a list of them . 
There were six women , three men , and a Newfoundland dog . 
What happened ? said Kate . 
The Is raelites died after Pharaoh , or somebody , numbered them . 
Did anything happen to yours ? It was worse with mine , said Aunt Jane . 
I grew tired of some and others I forgot , till at last there was nobody left but the dog , and he died . 
Was Philip's father one of them ? No. Tell me about him , said Kate , firmly . 
Ruth , said the elder lady , as her young handmaiden passed the door with her wonted demureness , come here no , get me a glass of water . 
Kate ! I shall die of that girl . 
She does some idiotic thing , and then she looks in here with that contented , beaming look . 
There is an air of baseless happiness about her that drives me nearly frantic . 
Never mind about that , persisted Kate . 
Tell me about Philip's father . 
This neat epitaph implied the erection of a final tombstone over the whole race , and Kate asked no more . 
Meantime Malbone sat at the western door with Harry , and was running on with one of his tirades , half jest , half earnest , against American society . 
Not just ! cried Harry . 
Nowhere is there more respect for those who give their lives to intellectual pursuits . 
What are intellectual pursuits ? said Philip . 
Editing daily newspapers ? Teaching arithmetic to children ? I see no others flourishing hereabouts . 
Science and literature , answered Harry . 
The majority of people have hardly even heard their names . 
But you do not care for public life ? said Harry . 
No , said Malbone , therefore this does not trouble me , but it troubles you . 
I can always amuse myself . 
Why are you not satisfied ? Because you are not , said Harry . 
You are dissatisfied with men , and so you care chiefly to amuse yourself with women and children . 
I dare say , said Malbone , carelessly . 
They are usually less ungraceful and talk better grammar . 
But American life does not mean grace nor grammar . 
We are all living for the future . 
Rough work now , and the graces by and by . 
That is what we Americans always say , retorted Philip . 
Everything is in the future . 
What guaranty have we for that future ? I see none . 
We make no progress towards the higher arts , except in greater quantities of mediocrity . 
We sell larger editions of poor books . 
Our artists fill larger frames and travel farther for materials but a ten inch canvas would tell all they have to say . 
The wrong point of view , said Hal . 
If you begin with high art , you begin at the wrong end . 
The first essential for any nation is to put the mass of the people above the reach of want . 
We are all usefully employed , if we contribute to that . 
So is the cook usefully employed while preparing dinner , said Philip . 
Nevertheless , I do not wish to live in the kitchen . 
Yet you always admire your own country , said Harry , so long as you are in Europe . 
No doubt , said Philip . 
I do not object to the kitchen at that distance . 
And to tell the truth , America looks well from Europe . 
No culture , no art seems so noble as this far off spectacle of a self governing people . 
The enthusiasm lasts till one's return . 
Then there seems nothing here but to work hard and keep out of mischief . 
That is something , said Harry . 
A good deal in America , said Phil . 
We talk about the immorality of older countries . 
Positively , I think a man is more excusable for coveting his neighbor's wife in America than in Europe , because there is so little else to covet . 
Malbone ! said Hal , what has got into you ? Do you know what things you are saying ? Perfectly , was the unconcerned reply . 
I am not arguing I am only testifying . 
I know that in Paris , for instance , I myself have no temptations . 
More dangerous , said Hal . 
Infinitely more dangerous , in the morbid way in which you look at life . 
As the nation develops , it must produce men of high culture . 
Now there is no place for them except as bookkeepers or pedagogues or newspaper reporters . 
Meantime the incessant unintellectual activity is only a sublime bore to those who stand aside . 
Then why stand aside ? persisted the downright Harry . 
I have no place in it but a lounging place , said Malbone . 
I do not wish to chop blocks with a razor . 
I envy those men , born mere Americans , with no ambition in life but to 'swing a railroad' as they say at the West . 
Every morning I hope to wake up like them in the fear of God and the love of money . 
You may as well stop , said Harry , coloring a little . 
Meanwhile , I have my little interests , read , write , sketch Flirt ? put in Hal , with growing displeasure . 
Not now , said Phil , patting his shoulder , with imperturbable good nature . 
Our beloved has cured me of that . 
He who has won the pearl dives no more . 
Do not let us speak of Hope , said Harry . 
Everything that you have been asserting Hope's daily life disproves . 
That may be , answered Malbone , heartily . 
But , Hal , I never flirted I always despised it . 
It was always a grande passion with me , or what I took for such . 
I loved to be loved , I suppose and there was always something new and fascinating to be explored in a human heart , that is , a woman's . 
Some new temple to profane ? asked Hal severely . 
If I deceived , I shared the deception , at least for a time and , as for sensuality , I had none in me . 
Did you have nothing worse ? Rousseau ends where Tom Jones begins . 
My temperament saved me , said Philip . 
A woman is not a woman to me , without personal refinement . 
Just what Rousseau said , replied Harry . 
I acted upon it , answered Malbone . 
No one dislikes Blanche Ingleside and her demi monde more than I. You ought not , was the retort . 
You help to bring other girls to her level . 
Whom ? said Malbone , startled . 
Emilia ? repeated the other , coloring crimson . 
I , who have warned her against Blanche's society . 
And have left her no other resource , said Harry , coloring still more . 
too much power over that girl , and the only effect of it is , to keep her in perpetual excitement . 
So she seeks Blanche , as she would any other strong stimulant . 
Hope does not seem to have discovered this , but Kate has , and I have . 
Hope came in , and Harry went out . 
The next day he came to Philip and apologized most warmly for his unjust and inconsiderate words . 
Malbone , always generous , bade him think no more about it , and Harry for that day reverted strongly to his first faith . 
So noble , so high toned , he said to Kate . 
Indeed , a man never appears more magnanimous than in forgiving a friend who has told him the truth . 
IT was true enough what Harry had said . 
It was a nature half amiable , half voluptuous , that disarmed others , seeming itself unarmed . 
Sometimes it seemed as if nothing stood between him and utter profligacy but a little indolence , a little kindness , and a good deal of caution . 
How does remorse begin ? Where you are beginning , said Kate . 
I do not perceive that , he answered . 
My conscience seems , after all , to be only a form of good nature . 
I like to be stirred by emotion , I suppose , and I like to study character . 
But I can always stop when it is evident that I shall cause pain to somebody . 
Is there any other motive ? In other words , said she , you apply the match , and then turn your back on the burning house . 
How unjust you are ! Of course , we all like to play with fire , but I always put it out before it can spread . 
Do you think I have no feeling ? Kate stopped there , I suppose . 
Even she always stopped soon , if she undertook to interfere with Malbone . 
This charming Alcibiades always convinced them , after the wrestling was over , that he had not been thrown . 
The only exception to this was in the case of Aunt Jane . 
Perhaps if two beings were in absolutely no respect alike , they never could meet even for purposes of hostility there must be some common ground from which the aversion may proceed . 
So he usually went his way and if he sometimes felt one of her sharp retorts , could laugh it off that day and sleep it off before the next morning . 
For you may be sure that Philip was very little troubled by inconvenient memories . 
He never had to affect forgetfulness of anything . 
The past slid from him so easily , he forgot even to try to forget . 
Not at all , persisted he , accepting as conversation what she meant as a stab . 
I may , indeed , commit greater errors , here she grimly nodded , as if she had no doubt of it , but never just the same . 
To day must take thought for itself . 
I wish it would , she said , gently , and then went on with her own thoughts while he was silent . 
Presently she broke out again in her impulsive way . 
Depend upon it , she said , there is very little direct retribution in this world . 
Phil looked up , quite pleased at her indorsing one of his favorite views . 
She looked , as she always did , indignant at having said anything to please him . 
Yes , said she , it is the indirect retribution that crushes . 
I've seen enough of that , God knows . 
Kate , give me my thimble . 
Even in this case he only laughed good naturedly , and went out , whistling like a mocking bird , to call the children round him . 
Toward the more wayward and impulsive Emilia the good lady was far more merciful . 
With all Aunt Jane's formidable keenness , she was a little apt to be disarmed by youth and beauty , and had no very stern retributions except for those past middle age . 
Emilia especially charmed her while she repelled . 
There was no getting beyond a certain point with this strange girl , any more than with Philip but her depths tantalized , while his apparent shallows were only vexatious . 
Everybody was drawn to her , yet not a soul took any comfort in her . 
So Aunt Jane , who was wont to be perfectly decisive in her treatment of every human being , was fluctuating and inconsistent with Emilia . 
She could not help being fascinated by the motherless child , and yet scorned herself for even the doubting love she gave . 
Only think , auntie , said Kate , how you kissed Emilia , yesterday ! Of course I did , she remorsefully owned . 
I have kissed her a great many times too often . 
I never will kiss her again . 
There is nothing but sorrow to be found in loving her , and her heart is no larger than her feet . 
Today she was not even pretty ! If it were not for her voice , I think I should never wish to see her again . 
But when that soft , pleading voice came once more , and Emilia asked perhaps for luncheon , in tones fit for Ophelia , Aunt Jane instantly yielded . 
One might as well have tried to enforce indignation against the Babes in the Wood . 
This perpetual mute appeal was further strengthened by a peculiar physical habit in Emilia , which first alarmed the household , but soon ceased to inspire terror . 
She fainted very easily , and had attacks at long intervals akin to faintness , and lasting for several hours . 
The physicians pronounced them cataleptic in their nature , saying that they brought no danger , and that she would certainly outgrow them . 
They were sometimes produced by fatigue , sometimes by excitement , but they brought no agitation with them , nor any development of abnormal powers . 
They simply wrapped her in a profound repose , from which no effort could rouse her , till the trance passed by . 
There was something inexpressibly sweet , appealing , and touching in this impenetrable slumber , when it was at its deepest . 
She lived , she breathed , and yet all the storms of life could but beat against her powerless , as the waves beat on the shore . 
A few hours having passed , she suddenly waked , and was a self willed , passionate girl once more . 
When she spoke , it was with a voice wholly natural she had no recollection of what had happened , and no curiosity to learn . 
IT had been a lovely summer day , with a tinge of autumnal coolness toward nightfall , ending in what Aunt Jane called a quince jelly sunset . 
Kate and Emilia sat upon the Blue Rocks , earnestly talking . 
Promise , Emilia ! said Kate . 
Remember , continued Kate , he is Hope's betrothed . 
Promise , promise , promise ! Emilia looked into Kate's face and saw it flushed with a generous eagerness , that called forth an answering look in her . 
She tried to speak , and the words died into silence . 
There was a pause , while each watched the other . 
When one soul is grappling with another for life , such silence may last an instant too long and Kate soon felt her grasp slipping . 
There was so much to tell , more than could ever be explained or justified . 
When she spoke it was to say something evasive and unimportant , and her voice was as one from the grave . 
In truth , Philip had given Emilia his heart to play with at Neuchatel , that he might beguile her from an attachment they had all regretted . 
The toy once in her hand , the passionate girl had kept it , had clung to him with all her might he could not shake her off . 
He had not intended this it seemed hardly his fault his intentions had been good , or at least not bad . 
This piquant and wonderful fruit of nature , this girlish soul , he had merely touched it and it was his . 
Its mere fragrance was intoxicating . 
Good God ! what should he do with it ? No clear answer coming , he had drifted on with that terrible facility for which years of self indulged emotion had prepared him . 
Each step , while it was intended to be the last , only made some other last step needful . 
He had begun wrong , for he had concealed his engagement , fancying that he could secure a stronger influence over this young girl without the knowledge . 
Then , indeed , she had burst upon him with an impetuous despair that had alarmed him . 
After a long struggle , he had touched , not her sense of justice , for she had none , but her love for him he had aroused her tenderness and her pride . 
Without his actual assurance , she yet believed that he would release himself in some way from his betrothal , and love only her . 
Malbone had fortunately great control over Emilia when near her , and could thus keep the sight of this stormy passion from the pure and unconscious Hope . 
But a new distress opened before him , from the time when he again touched Hope's hand . 
The close intercourse of the voyage had given him for the time almost a surfeit of the hot house atmosphere of Emilia's love . 
From the moment they again met , his wayward heart reverted to her . 
Clairon complained that , so soon as she became seriously attached to any one , she was sure to meet somebody else whom she liked better . 
The event came about in this way . 
Hope and Kate had been to a dinner party , and were as usual reciting their experiences to Aunt Jane . 
Was it pleasant ? said that sympathetic lady . 
It was one of those dreadfully dark dining rooms , said Hope , seating herself at the open window . 
Why do they make them look so like tombs ? said Kate . 
Because , said her aunt , most Americans pass from them to the tomb , after eating such indigestible things . 
There is a wish for a gentle transition . 
Aunt Jane , said Hope , Mrs. Meredith asks to have a little visit from Emilia . 
Do you think she had better go ? Mrs. Meredith ? asked Aunt Jane . 
Is that woman alive yet ? Why , auntie ! said Kate . 
We were talking about her only a week ago . 
Perhaps so , conceded Aunt Jane , reluctantly . 
But it seems to me she has great length of days ! How very improperly you are talking , dear ! said Kate . 
She is not more than forty , and you are Fifty four , interrupted the other . 
Then she has not seen nearly so many days as you . 
But they are such long days ! That is what I must have meant . 
One of her days is as long as three of mine . 
She is so tiresome ! She does not tire you very often , said Kate . 
She comes once a year , said Aunt Jane . 
And then it is not to see me . 
She comes out of respect to the memory of my great aunt , with whom Talleyrand fell in love , when he was in America , before Mrs. Meredith was born . 
Yes , Emilia may as well go . 
To provide her with companionship , Mrs. Meredith kindly had Blanche Ingleside to stay there also . 
Blanche stayed at different houses a good deal . 
To do her justice , she was very good company , when put upon her best behavior , and beyond the reach of her demure mamma . 
She was always in spirits , often good natured , and kept everything in lively motion , you may be sure . 
She seemed a little out of place , certainly , amid the precise proprieties of Mrs. Meredith's establishment . 
But Blanche and her mother still held their place in society , and it was nothing to Mrs. Meredith who came to her doors , but only from what other doors they came . 
She would have liked to see all the best houses connected by secret galleries or underground passages , of which she and a few others should hold the keys . 
A guest properly presented could then go the rounds of all unerringly , leaving his card at each , while improper acquaintances in vain howled for admission at the outer wall . 
MALBONE stood one morning on the pier behind the house . 
A two days' fog was dispersing . 
beneath the shadowy , overhanging counters of dark vessels . 
Beyond , the atmosphere was still busy in rolling away its vapors , brushing the last gray fringes from the low hills , and leaving over them only the thinnest aerial veil . 
Farther down the bay , the pale tower of the crumbling fort was now shrouded , now revealed , then hung with floating lines of vapor as with banners . 
Hope came down on the pier to Malbone , who was looking at the boats . 
He saw with surprise that her calm brow was a little clouded , her lips compressed , and her eyes full of tears . 
Philip , she said , abruptly , do you love me ? Do you doubt it ? said he , smiling , a little uneasily . 
Fixing her eyes upon him , she said , more seriously There is a more important question , Philip . 
Tell me truly , do you care about Emilia ? He started at the words , and looked eagerly in her face for an explanation . 
Her expression only showed the most anxious solicitude . 
For one moment the wild impulse came up in his mind to put an entire trust in this truthful woman , and tell her all . 
Then the habit of concealment came back to him , the dull hopelessness of a divided duty , and the impossibility of explanations . 
How could he justify himself to her when he did not really know himself ? So he merely said , Yes . 
She is your sister , he added , in an explanatory tone , after a pause and despised himself for the subterfuge . 
It is amazing how long a man may be false in action before he ceases to shrink from being false in words . 
Philip , said the unsuspecting Hope , I knew that you cared about her . 
I have seen you look at her with so much affection and then again I have seen you look cold and almost stern . 
She notices it , I am sure she does , this changeableness . 
But this is not why I ask the question . 
I think you must have seen something else that I have been observing , and if you care about her , even for my sake , it is enough . 
Here Philip started , and felt relieved . 
You must be her friend , continued Hope , eagerly . 
She has changed her whole manner and habits very fast . 
Blanche Ingleside and that set seem to have wholly controlled her , and there is something reckless in all her ways . 
You are the only person who can help her . 
How ? I do not know how , said Hope , almost impatiently . 
You saved her before , and will do it again . 
I put her in your hands . 
What can I do for her ? asked he , with a strange mingling of terror and delight . 
If she has your society , she will not care for those people , so much her inferiors in character . 
Devote yourself to her for a time . 
And leave you ? said Philip , hesitatingly . 
Anything , anything , said she . 
If I do not see you for a month , I can bear it . 
Only promise me two things . 
First , that you will go to her this very day . 
She dines with Mrs. Ingleside . 
Then , said Hope , with saddened tones , you must not say it was I who sent you . 
Let her think that your own impulse leads you , and then she will yield . 
I know Emilia enough for that . 
Malbone paused , half in ecstasy , half in dismay . 
At Hope's appeal he was to risk Hope's peace forever he was to make her sweet sisterly affection its own executioner . 
In obedience to her love he must revive Emilia's . 
The tender intercourse which he had been trying to renounce as a crime must be rebaptized as a duty . 
He who is summoned to rescue a drowning man , knowing that he himself may go down with that inevitable clutch around his neck , is placed in some such situation as Philip's . 
He really grew quite tender and devout over these meditations . 
Considered as a form of self sacrifice , it was not without its pleasures . 
Malbone drove that afternoon to Mrs. Ingleside's charming abode , whither a few ladies were wont to resort , and a great many gentlemen . 
He timed his call between the hours of dining and driving , and made sure that Emilia had not yet emerged . 
Two or three equipages beside his own were in waiting at the gate , and gay voices resounded from the house . 
A servant received him at the door , and taking him for a tardy guest , ushered him at once into the dining room . 
He was indifferent to this , for he had been too often sought as a guest by Mrs. Ingleside to stand on any ceremony beneath her roof . 
That fair hostess , in all the beauty of her shoulders , rose to greet him , from a table where six or eight guests yet lingered over flowers and wine . 
The gentlemen were smoking , and some of the ladies were trying to look at ease with cigarettes . 
Malbone knew the whole company , and greeted them with his accustomed ease . 
He would not have been embarrassed if they had been the Forty Thieves . 
Some of them , indeed , were not so far removed from that fabled band , only it was their fortunes , instead of themselves , that lay in the jars of oil . 
You find us all here , said Mrs. Ingleside , sweetly . 
We will wait till the gentlemen finish their cigars , before driving . 
Count me in , please , said Blanche , in her usual vein of frankness . 
Unless mamma wishes me to conclude my weed on the Avenue . 
It would be fun , though . 
Fancy the dismay of the Frenchmen and the dowagers ! And old Lambert , said one of the other girls , delightedly . 
The elderly party from the rural districts , who talks to us about the domestic virtues of the wife of his youth . 
Thinks women should cruise with a broom at their mast heads , like Admiral somebody in England , said another damsel , who was rolling a cigarette for a midshipman . 
You see we do not follow the English style , said the smooth hostess to Philip . 
Ladies retiring after dinner ! After all , it is a coarse practice . 
You agree with me , Mr. Malbone ? Speak your mind , said Blanche , coolly . 
Don't say yes if you'd rather not . 
Because we find a thing a bore , you've no call to say so . 
I always say , continued the matron , that the presence of woman is needed as a refining influence . 
Malbone looked round for the refining influences . 
She was trying to extort a promise that she should appear in its pages , which , as we all remember , she did . 
One of her attendant nymphs sat leaning her elbows on the table , talking horse with a gentleman who had an undoubted professional claim to a knowledge of that commodity . 
Another , having finished her manufactured cigarette , was making the grinning midshipman open his lips wider and wider to receive it . 
Upon my word , thought Malbone , I never fancied the English after dinner practice , any more than did Napoleon . 
But if this goes on , it is the gentlemen who ought to withdraw . 
Cannot somebody lead the way to the drawing room , and leave the ladies to finish their cigars ? Till now he had hardly dared to look at Emilia . 
He saw with a thrill of love that she was the one person in the room who appeared out of place or ill at ease . 
She did not glance at him , but held her cigarette in silence and refused to light it . 
She had boasted to him once of having learned to smoke at school . 
What's the matter , Emmy ? suddenly exclaimed Blanche . 
Are you under a cloud , that you don't blow one ? Blanche , Blanche , said her mother , in sweet reproof . 
I often tell her that they are , after all , her most congenial associates . 
More so than the young and giddy . 
You'd better believe it , said the unabashed damsel . 
Take notice that whenever I go to a dinner party I look round for a clergyman to drink wine with . 
Incorrigible ! said the caressing mother . 
Mr. Malbone would hardly imagine you had been bred in a Christian land . 
I have , though , retorted Blanche . 
My esteemed parent always accustomed me to give up something during Lent , champagne , or the New York Herald , or something . 
The young men roared , and , had time and cosmetics made it possible , Mrs. Ingleside would have blushed becomingly . 
After all , the daughter was the better of the two . 
Her bluntness was refreshing beside the mother's suavity she had a certain generosity , too , and in a case of real destitution would have lent her best ear rings to a friend . 
By this time Malbone had edged himself to Emilia's side . 
Will you drive with me ? he murmured in an undertone . 
She nodded slightly , abruptly , and he withdrew again . 
It seems barbarous , said he aloud , to break up the party . 
But I must claim my promised drive with Miss Emilia . 
Blanche looked up , for once amazed , having heard a different programme arranged . 
Count Posen looked up also . 
It was no great matter . 
Young Jones's dog cart was at the door , and always opened eagerly its arms to anybody with a title . 
TEN days later Philip came into Aunt Jane's parlor , looking excited and gloomy , with a letter in his hand . 
He put it down on her table without its envelope , a thing that always particularly annoyed her . 
A letter without its envelope , she was wont to say , was like a man without a face , or a key without a string , something incomplete , preposterous . 
As usual , however , he strode across her prejudices , and said , I have something to tell you . 
Is it ? said Aunt Jane , curtly . 
That is refreshing in these times . 
A good beginning , said Kate . 
You have prepared us for something incredible . 
You will think it so , said Malbone . 
Emilia is engaged to Mr. John Lambert . 
And he went out of the room . 
Good Heavens ! said Aunt Jane , taking off her spectacles . 
What a man ! He is ugly enough to frighten the neighboring crows . 
His face looks as if it had fallen together out of chaos , and the features had come where it had pleased Fate . 
There is a look of industrious nothingness about him , such as busy dogs have . 
I know the whole family . 
They used to bake our bread . 
I suppose they are good and sensible , said Kate . 
Like boiled potatoes , my dear , was the response , wholesome but perfectly uninteresting . 
Is he of that sort ? asked Kate . 
No , said her aunt not uninteresting , but ungracious . 
But I like an ungracious man better than one like Philip , who hangs over young girls like a soft hearted avalanche . 
This Lambert will govern Emilia , which is what she needs . 
She will never love him , said Kate , which is the one thing she needs . 
There is nothing that could not be done with Emilia by any person with whom she was in love and nothing can ever be done with her by anybody else . 
No good will ever come of this , and I hope she will never marry him . 
With this unusual burst , Kate retreated to Hope . 
Hope took the news more patiently than any one , but with deep solicitude . 
A worldly marriage seemed the natural result of the Ingleside influence , but it had not occurred to anybody that it would come so soon . 
It had not seemed Emilia's peculiar temptation and yet nobody could suppose that she looked at John Lambert through any glamour of the affections . 
Mr. John Lambert was a millionnaire , a politician , and a widower . 
The late Mrs. Lambert had been a specimen of that cheerful hopelessness of temperament that one finds abundantly developed among the middle aged women of country towns . 
She enjoyed her daily murders in the newspapers , and wept profusely at the funerals of strangers . 
On every occasion , however felicitous , she offered her condolences in a feeble voice , that seemed to have been washed a great many times and to have faded . 
At last her poor , meek , fatiguing voice faded out altogether , and her husband mourned her as heartily as she would have bemoaned the demise of the most insignificant neighbor . 
After her death , being left childless , he had nothing to do but to make money , and he naturally made it . 
Having taken his primary financial education in New England , he graduated at that great business university , Chicago , and then entered on the public practice of wealth in New York . 
Aunt Jane had perhaps done injustice to the personal appearance of Mr. John Lambert . 
His features were irregular , but not insignificant , and there was a certain air of slow command about him , which made some persons call him handsome . 
He was heavily built , with a large , well shaped head , light whiskers tinged with gray , and a sort of dusty complexion . 
He seemed to bristle with memorandum books , and kept drawing them from every pocket , to put something down . 
He was slow of speech , and his very heaviness of look added to the impression of reserved power about the man . 
All his career in life had been a solid progress , and his boldest speculations seemed securer than the legitimate business of less potent financiers . 
He had read a good deal at odd times , and had seen a great deal of men . 
His private morals were unstained , he was equable and amiable , had strong good sense , and never got beyond his depth . 
He had travelled in Europe and brought home many statistics , some new thoughts , and a few good pictures selected by his friends . 
He spent his money liberally for the things needful to his position , owned a yacht , bred trotting horses , and had founded a theological school . 
He submitted to these and other social observances from a vague sense of duty as an American citizen his real interest lay in business and in politics . 
Yet he conducted these two vocations on principles diametrically opposite . 
In business he was more honest than the average in politics he had no conception of honesty , for he could see no difference between a politician and any other merchandise . 
He always succeeded in business , for he thoroughly understood its principles in politics he always failed in the end , for he recognized no principles at all . 
In business he was active , resolute , and seldom deceived in politics he was equally active , but was apt to be irresolute , and was deceived every day of his life . 
In both cases it was not so much from love of power that he labored , as from the excitement of the game . 
The larger the scale the better he liked it a large railroad operation , a large tract of real estate , a big and noisy statesman , these investments he found irresistible . 
On which of his two sets of principles he would manage a wife remained to be proved . 
John Lambert at forty was as absolutely ignorant of the qualities and habits of a cultivated woman as of the details of her toilet . 
With imagination thus touched and heart unfilled , this man had been bewitched from the very first moment by Emilia . 
He kept it to himself , and heard in silence the criticisms made at the club windows . 
And she , meanwhile , unconscious of his passion , went by him in her beauty , and caught him in the net she never threw . 
Emilia was always piquant , because she was indifferent she had never made an effort in her life , and she had no respect for persons . 
She was capable of marrying for money , perhaps , but the sacrifice must all be completed in a single vow . 
She would not tutor nor control herself for the purpose . 
Hand and heart must be duly transferred , she supposed , whenever the time was up but till then she must be free . 
This with her was not art , but necessity yet the most accomplished art could have devised nothing so effectual to hold her lover . 
His strong sense had always protected him from the tricks of matchmaking mammas and their guileless maids . 
Had Emilia made one effort to please him , once concealed a dislike , once affected a preference , the spell might have been broken . 
Had she been his slave , he might have become a very unyielding or a very heedless despot . 
Making him her slave , she kept him at the very height of bliss . 
And this passion was made all the stronger by being a good deal confined to his own breast . 
Nor could he find any relief of mind in talking with others about her . 
It enraged him to be clapped on the back and congratulated by his compeers and he stopped their coarse jokes , often rudely enough . 
As for the young men at the club , he could not bear to hear them mention his darling's name , however courteously . 
He knew well enough that for them the betrothal had neither dignity nor purity that they held it to be as much a matter of bargain and sale as their worst amours . 
He would far rather have talked to the theological professors whose salaries he paid , for he saw that they had a sort of grave , formal tradition of the sacredness of marriage . 
Sometimes he talked a little to his future brother in law , Harry , assuming , as lovers are wont , that brothers see sisters on their ideal side . 
This was quite true of Harry and Hope , but not at all true as regarded Emilia . 
She seemed to him simply a beautiful and ungoverned girl whom he could not respect , and whom he therefore found it very hard to idealize . 
Therefore he heard with a sort of sadness the outpourings of generous devotion from John Lambert . 
I don't know how it is , Henry , the merchant would gravely say , I can't get rightly used to it , that I feel so strange . 
Honestly , now , I feel as if I was beginning life over again . 
It ain't a selfish feeling , so I know there's some good in it . 
I used to be selfish enough , but I ain't so to her . 
You may not think it , but if it would make her happy , I believe I could lie down and let her carriage roll over me . 
By , I would build her a palace to live in , and keep the lodge at the gate myself , just to see her pass by . 
That is , if she was to live in it alone by herself . 
I couldn't stand sharing her . 
It must be me or nobody . 
To that young lady , trained sedulously by a devoted mother , life was really a serious thing . 
It meant the full rigor of the marriage market , tempered only by dancing and new dresses . 
There was a stern sense of duty beneath all her robing and disrobing she conscientiously did what was expected of her , and took her little amusements meanwhile . 
It was supposed that most of the purchasers in the market preferred slang and bare shoulders , and so she favored them with plenty of both . 
It was merely the law of supply and demand . 
I wouldn't mind playing Virtue Rewarded myself , young woman , said Blanche , at such a scale of prices . 
I would do it even to so slow an audience as old Lambert . 
But you see , it isn't my line . 
Don't forget your humble friends when you come into your property , that's all . 
Then the tender coterie of innocents entered on some preliminary consideration of wedding dresses . 
I am not like you and Hal , you know , said she . 
I have no fancy for love in a cottage . 
I never look well in anything that is not costly . 
I have not a taste that does not imply a fortune . 
What is the use of love ? One marries for love , and is unhappy ever after . 
One marries for money , and perhaps gets love after all . 
I dare say Mr. Lambert loves me , though I do not see why he should . 
I fear he does , said Kate , almost severely . 
It is an unequal bargain , where one side does all the loving . 
Don't be troubled , said Emilia . 
I dare say he will not love me long . 
Nobody ever did ! And her eyes filled with tears which she dashed away angrily , as she ran up to her room . 
It was harder yet for her to talk with Hope , but she did it , and that in a very serious mood . 
She had never been so open with her sister . 
Aunt Jane once told me , she said , that my only safety was in marrying a good man . 
Now I am engaged to one . 
Do you love him , Emilia ? asked Hope , gravely . 
Not much , said Emilia , honestly . 
But perhaps I shall , by and by . 
Emilia , cried Hope , there is no such thing as happiness in a marriage without love . 
Mine is not without love , the girl answered . 
It frightens me to see how much he loves me . 
I can have the devotion of a lifetime , if I will . 
Perhaps it is hard to receive it in such a way , but I can have it . 
Do you blame me very much ? Hope hesitated . 
I cannot blame you so much , my child , she said , as if I thought it were money for which you cared . 
It seems to me that there must be something beside that , and yet O Hope , how I thank you , interrupted Emilia . 
You know I do not care about money , except just to buy my clothes and things . 
At least , I do not care about so much as he has , more than a million dollars , only think ! Perhaps they said two million . 
Is it wrong for me to marry him , just because he has that ? Not if you love him . 
I do not exactly love him , but O Hope , I cannot tell you about it . 
I am not so frivolous as you think . 
I want to do my duty . 
I want to make you happy too you have been so sweet to me . 
Did you think it would make me happy to have you married ? asked Hope , surprised , and kissing again and again the young , sad face . 
And the two girls went upstairs together , brought for the moment into more sisterly nearness by the very thing that had seemed likely to set them forever apart . 
SO short was the period between Emilia's betrothal and her marriage , that Aunt Jane's sufferings over trousseau and visits did not last long . 
Mr. Lambert's society was the worst thing to bear . 
He makes such long calls ! she said , despairingly . 
He should bring an almanac with him to know when the days go by . 
But Harry and Philip are here all the time , said Kate , the accustomed soother . 
Harry is quiet , and Philip keeps out of the way lately , she answered . 
But I always thought lovers the most inconvenient thing about a house . 
They are more troublesome than the mice , and all those people who live in the wainscot for though the lovers make less noise , yet you have to see them . 
A necessary evil , dear , said Kate , with much philosophy . 
I am not sure , said the complainant . 
They might be excluded in the deed of a house , or by the terms of the lease . 
It was true , what Aunt Jane said about Malbone . 
He had changed his habits a good deal . 
While the girls were desperately busy about the dresses , he beguiled Harry to the club , and sat on the piazza , talking sentiment and sarcasm , regardless of hearers . 
When we are young , he would say , we are all idealists in love . 
Every imaginative boy has such a passion , while his intellect is crude and his senses indifferent . 
It is the height of bliss . 
All other pleasures are not worth its pains . 
With older men this ecstasy of the imagination is rare it is the senses that clutch or reason which holds . 
Is that an improvement ? asked some juvenile listener . 
No ! said Philip , strongly . 
Reason is cold and sensuality hateful a man of any feeling must feed his imagination there must be a woman of whom he can dream . 
That is , put in some more critical auditor , whom he can love as a woman loves a man . 
For want of the experience of such a passion , Malbone went on , unheeding , nobody comprehends Petrarch . 
Philosophers and sensualists all refuse to believe that his dream of Laura went on , even when he had a mistress and a child . 
What is the need of the degradation ? put in the clear headed Harry . 
None , except in weakness , said Philip . 
A stronger nature may escape it . 
Good God ! do I not know how Petrarch must have felt ? What sorrow life brings ! Suppose a man hopelessly separated from one whom he passionately loves . 
Would that one could always feel so ! But I am weak . 
Then comes impulse , it thirsts for some immediate gratification I yield , and plunge into any happiness since I cannot obtain her . 
Then comes quiet again , with the stars , and I bitterly reproach myself for needing anything more than that stainless ideal . 
And so , I fancy , did Petrarch . 
Philip was getting into a dangerous mood with his sentimentalism . 
No lawful passion can ever be so bewildering or ecstatic as an unlawful one . 
Malbone , greedy of emotion , was drinking to the dregs a passion that could have no to morrow . 
Sympathetic persons are apt to assume that every refined emotion must be ennobling . 
This is not true of men like Malbone , voluptuaries of the heart . 
Malbone did not leave his more spiritual chase so soon , it made him too happy . 
Sometimes , indeed , when he had thus caught his emotion , it caught him in return , and for a few moments made him almost unhappy . 
This he liked best of all he nursed the delicious pain , knowing that it would die out soon enough , there was no need of hurrying it to a close . 
At least , there had never been need for such solicitude before . 
Except for his genius for keeping his own counsel , every acquaintance of Malbone's would have divined the meaning of these reveries . 
Besides , he talked well to anybody on anything , and was admitted to exhibit , for a man of literary tastes , a good deal of sense . 
If he had engaged himself to a handsome schoolmistress , it was his fancy , and he could afford it . 
Moreover she was well connected , and had an air . 
Hope would have dreaded the close neighborhood of those Irish ears she would rather have ridden even in an omnibus , could she and Philip have taken all the seats . 
Their drives had some variety . 
Then she looked from her airy perch and smiled at him at the club window , where he stood in the most negligent of attitudes , and with every faculty strained in observation . 
A moment and she was gone . 
years abroad , and was supposed to have been confidential adviser to most of the crowned heads of Europe . 
For the first time in his life Malbone found himself in the grasp of a passion too strong to be delightful . 
For the first time his own heart frightened him . 
He had sometimes feared that it was growing harder , but now he discovered that it was not hard enough . 
He knew it was not merely mercenary motives that had made Emilia accept John Lambert but what troubled him was a vague knowledge that it was not mere pique . 
He was used to dealing with pique in women , and had found it the most manageable of weaknesses . 
It was an element of spasmodic conscience than he saw here , and it troubled him . 
Something told him that she had said to herself I will be married , and thus do my duty to Hope . 
Other girls marry persons whom they do not love , and it helps them to forget . 
Perhaps it will help me . 
This is a good man , they say , and I think he loves me . 
And as latterly he had thought of little else , he remained more or less stupid all the time . 
To a man like Malbone , self indulgent rather than selfish , this poor , blind semblance of a moral purpose in Emilia was a great embarrassment . 
Philip was rather accustomed to evade conscience , but he never liked to look it in the face and defy it . 
He cursed himself that he had allowed himself to be swayed back to her , and so had lost Emilia forever . 
And thus he drifted on , not knowing what he wished for , but knowing extremely well what he feared . 
MALBONE was a person of such ready , emotional nature , and such easy expression , that it was not hard for Hope to hide from herself the gradual ebbing of his love . 
Whenever he was fresh and full of spirits , he had enough to overflow upon her and every one . 
Often he cursed himself as a wretch for paining that pure and noble heart . 
By degrees he led himself , still half ashamed , to the dream that she might yet be somehow weaned from him , and leave his conscience free . 
Until that ecstasy of release should come , he would do his duty , yes , his duty . 
When these flushed hopes grew pale , as they soon did , he could at least play with the wan fancies that took their place . 
Daily and hourly he felt the last agony of a weak and passionate nature , to dream of one woman in another's arms . 
Then , coming back to him with a great overwhelming ardor of affection , she poured upon him more and more in proportion as he gave her less . 
Hope , at length , almost ceased to speak of Malbone , and revealed her grief by this evasion , as the robin reveals her nest by flitting from it . 
Yet there were times when he really tried to force himself into a revival of this calmer emotion . 
He studied Hope's beauty with his eyes , he pondered on all her nobleness . 
He wished to bring his whole heart back to her or at least wished that he wished it . 
But hearts that have educated themselves into faithlessness must sooner or later share the suffering they give . 
Love will be avenged on them . 
Nothing could have now recalled this epicure in passion , except , possibly , a little withholding or semi coquetry on Hope's part , and this was utterly impossible for her . 
Absolute directness was a part of her nature she could die , but not manouvre . 
It actually diminished Hope's hold on Philip , that she had at this time the whole field to herself . 
Emilia had gone for a few weeks to the mountains , with the household of which she was a guest . 
An ideal and unreasonable passion is strongest in absence , when the dream is all pure dream , and safe from the discrepancies of daily life . 
When the two girls were together , Emilia often showed herself so plainly Hope's inferior , that it jarred on Philip's fine perceptions . 
He could resign himself to his reveries , and pursue them into new subtleties day by day . 
There was Mrs. Meredith's house , too , where they had been so happy . 
In the windy moanings of the silent night he could put his ear at the keyhole , and could fancy that he heard the wild signals of her love and despair . 
THE children , as has been said , were all devoted to Malbone , and this was , in a certain degree , to his credit . 
But it is a mistake to call children good judges of character , except in one direction , namely , their own . 
They understand it , up to the level of their own stature they know who loves them , but not who loves virtue . 
Many a sinner has a great affection for children , and no child will ever detect the sins of such a friend because , toward them , the sins do not exist . 
The children , therefore , all loved Philip , and yet they turned with delight , when out door pleasures were in hand , to the strong and adroit Harry . 
Philip inclined to the daintier exercises , fencing , billiards , riding but Harry's vigorous physique enjoyed hard work . 
He taught all the household to swim , for instance . 
Jenny , aged five , a sturdy , deep chested little thing , seemed as amphibious as himself . 
As Harry swam farther and farther out , his head was hidden from view by her small person , and she might have passed for a red seabird rocking on the gentle waves . 
It was one of the regular delights of the household to see them bathe . 
Kate came in to Aunt Jane's room , one August morning , to say that they were going to the water side . 
How differently people may enter a room ! Hope always came in as the summer breeze comes , quiet , strong , soft , fragrant , resistless . 
Emilia never seemed to come in at all you looked up , and she had somehow drifted where she stood , pleading , evasive , lovely . 
But Kate entered any room , whether nursery or kitchen , as if it were the private boudoir of a princess and she the favorite maid of honor . 
Thus it was she came that morning to Aunt Jane . 
We are going down to see the bathers , dear , said Kate . 
Shall you miss me ? I miss you every minute , said her aunt , decisively . 
But I shall do very well . 
I have delightful times here by myself . 
What a ridiculous man it was who said that it was impossible to imagine a woman's laughing at her own comic fancies . 
I sit and laugh at my own nonsense very often . 
It is a shame to waste it , said Kate . 
It is a blessing that any of it is disposed of while you are not here , said Aunt Jane . 
You have quite enough of it . 
We never have enough , said Kate . 
And we never can make you repeat any of yesterday's . 
Of course not , said Aunt Jane . 
Nonsense must have the dew on it , or it is good for nothing . 
So you are really happiest alone ? Not so happy as when you are with me , you or Hope . 
I like to have Hope with me now she does me good . 
Really , I do not care for anybody else . 
Sometimes I think if I could always have four or five young kittens by me , in a champagne basket , with a nurse to watch them , I should be happier . 
But perhaps not they would grow up so fast ! Then I will leave you alone without compunction , said Kate . 
I am not alone , said Aunt Jane I have my man in the boat to watch through the window . 
What a singular being he is ! I think he spends hours in that boat , and what he does I can't conceive . 
There it is , quietly anchored , and there is he in it . 
I never saw anybody but myself who could get up so much industry out of nothing . 
He has all his housework there , a broom and a duster , and I dare say he has a cooking stove and a gridiron . 
He sits a little while , then he stoops down , then he goes to the other end . 
Sometimes he goes ashore in that absurd little tub , with a stick that he twirls at one end . 
That is called sculling , interrupted Kate . 
Sculling ! I suppose he runs for a baked potato . 
He is Robinson Crusoe on an island that never keeps still a single instant . 
It is all he has , and he never looks away , and never wants anything more . 
So I have him to watch . 
Think of living so near a beaver or a water rat with clothes on ! Good by . 
Leave the door ajar , it is so warm . 
And Kate went down to the landing . 
It was the weekly festival in that region , and the sunshine and the ripples made it gladdening , not gloomy . 
Every other day in the week the children of the fishermen waded waist deep in the water , and played at baptism . 
Near this shore stood the family bathing house and the girls came down to sit in its shadow and watch the swimming . 
It was late in August , and on the first of September Emilia was to be married . 
Nothing looked cool , that day , but the bay and those who were going into it . 
Out came Hope from the bathing house , in a new bathing dress of dark blue , which was evidently what the others had come forth to behold . 
Hope , what an imposter you are ! cried Kate instantly . 
You declined all my proffers of aid in cutting that dress , and now see how it fits you ! You never looked so beautifully in your life . 
There is not such another bathing dress in Oldport , nor such a figure to wear it . 
And she put both her arms round that supple , stately waist , that might have belonged to a Greek goddess , or to some queen in the Nibelungen Lied . 
The party watched the swimmers as they struck out over the clear expanse . 
It was high noon the fishing boats were all off , but a few pleasure boats swung different ways at their moorings , in the perfect calm . 
A few fishes dimpled the still surface , and as the three swam out farther and farther , their merry voices still sounded close at hand . 
Suddenly they all clapped their hands and called then pointed forward to the light house , across the narrow harbor . 
They are going to swim across , said Kate . 
What creatures they are ! Hope and little Jenny have always begged for it , and now Harry thinks it is so still a day they can safely venture . 
It is more than half a mile . 
See ! he has called that boy in a boat , and he will keep near them . 
They have swum farther than that along the shore . 
So the others went away with no fears . 
Hope said afterwards that she never swam with such delight as on that day . 
The water seemed to be peculiarly thin and clear , she said , as well as tranquil , and to retain its usual buoyancy without its density . 
It gave a delicious sense of freedom she seemed to swim in air , and felt singularly secure . 
For the first time she felt what she had always wished to experience , that swimming was as natural as walking , and might be indefinitely prolonged . 
Her strength seemed limitless , she struck out more and more strongly she splashed and played with little Jenny , when the child began to grow weary of the long motion . 
A fisherman's boy in a boat rowed slowly along by their side . 
Nine tenths of the distance had been accomplished , when the little girl grew quite impatient , and Hope bade Harry swim on before her , and land his charge . 
Light and buoyant as the child was , her tightened clasp had begun to tell on him . 
It tires you , Hal , to bear that weight so long , and you know I have nothing to carry . 
You must see that I am not in the least tired , only a little dazzled by the sun . 
Here , Charley , give me your hat , and then row on with Mr. Harry . 
She put on the boy's torn straw hat , and they yielded to her wish . 
People almost always yielded to Hope's wishes when she expressed them , it was so very seldom . 
Her body felt almost unnaturally strong , and she took powerful strokes but it seemed as if her heart went out into them and left a vacant cavity within . 
She shook her head and the fancy cleared away , and then others came . 
She was almost in it was only a slight dizziness , yet she could not see the light house . 
Concentrating all her efforts , she shut her eyes and swam on , her arms still unaccountably vigorous , though the rest of her body seemed losing itself in languor . 
The sound in her ear had grown to a roar , as of many mill wheels . 
It seemed a long distance that she thus swam with her eyes closed . 
Then she half opened her eyes , and the breakwater seemed all in motion , with tier above tier of eager faces looking down on her . 
Hope asked no questions , and hardly felt the impulse to inquire what had happened . 
A young man , leaping from the dock , had caught her in his arms , and had dived with her below the paddle wheels , just as they came upon her . 
It was a daring act , but nothing else could have saved her . 
She and the child were soon landed , and given over to the ladies . 
Due attention was paid to her young rescuer , whose dripping garments seemed for the moment as glorious as a blood stained flag . 
Harry fancied that he had seen him before , and at last traced back the impression of his features to the ball for the French officers . 
Even Hope's strong constitution felt the shock of this adventure . 
She was confined to her room for a week or two , but begged that there might be no postponement of the wedding , which , therefore , took place without her . 
Her illness gave excuse for a privacy that was welcome to all but the bridesmaids , and suited Malbone best of all . 
AUGUST drew toward its close , and guests departed from the neighborhood . 
What a short little thing summer is , meditated Aunt Jane , and butterflies are caterpillars most of the time after all . 
The wrens whisper in their box above the window , and there has not been a blast from the peacock for a week . 
He seems ashamed of the summer shortness of his tail . 
He keeps glancing at it over his shoulder to see if it is not looking better than yesterday , while the staring eyes of the old tail are in the bushes all about . 
Poor , dear little thing ! said coaxing Katie . 
Life is very rich to me . 
There is always something new in every season though to be sure I cannot think what novelty there is just now , except a choice variety of spiders . 
There is a theory that spiders kill flies . 
But I never miss a fly , and there does not seem to be any natural scourge divinely appointed to kill spiders , except Ruth . 
Even she does it so feebly , that I see them come back and hang on their webs and make faces at her . 
I suppose they are faces I do not understand their anatomy , but it must be a very unpleasant one . 
You are not quite satisfied with life , today , dear , said Kate I fear your book did not end to your satisfaction . 
It did end , though , said the lady , and that is something . 
And there would be nobody left to read it , because each reader would have been dead long before . 
But the book amused you ! interrupted Kate . 
It was so absurd that I laughed till I cried and it makes no difference whether you cry laughing or cry crying it is equally bad when your glasses come off . 
Whom did you see on the Avenue ? O , we saw Philip on horseback . 
He rides so beautifully he seems one with his horse . 
I am glad of it , interposed his aunt . 
The riders are generally so inferior to them . 
We saw Mr. and Mrs. Lambert , too . 
Emilia stopped and asked after you , and sent you her love , auntie . 
Love ! cried Aunt Jane . 
She has sent me love enough to rear a whole family on , more than I ever felt for anybody in all my days . 
But she does not really love any one . 
I hope she will love her husband , said Kate , rather seriously . 
Mark my words , Kate ! said her aunt . 
Nothing but unhappiness will ever come of that marriage . 
How can two people be happy who have absolutely nothing in common ? But no two people have just the same tastes , said Kate , except Harry and myself . 
It would be absurd for two people to be divorced , because the one preferred white bread and the other brown . 
They would be divorced very soon , said Aunt Jane , for the one who ate brown bread would not live long . 
But it is possible that he might live , auntie , in spite of your prediction . 
And perhaps people may be happy , even if you and I do not see how . 
Nobody ever thinks I see anything , said Aunt Jane , in some dejection . 
You think I am nothing in the world but a sort of old oyster , making amusement for people , and having no more to do with real life than oysters have . 
No , dearest ! cried Kate . 
You have a great deal to do with all our lives . 
You are a dear old insidious sapper and miner , looking at first very inoffensive , and then working your way into our affections , and spoiling us with coaxing . 
How you behave about children , for instance ! How ? said the other meekly . 
As well as I can . 
But you pretend that you dislike them . 
But I do dislike them . 
They have a sort of roof , too , and seem to expect to be out in all weathers . 
If you had a family of children , perhaps you would find such a travelling caravan very convenient , said Kate . 
If I had such a family , said her aunt , I would have a separate governess and guardian for each , very moral persons . 
They should come when each child was two , and stay till it was twenty . 
The children should all live apart , in order not to quarrel , and should meet once or twice a day and bow to each other . 
I think that each should learn a different language , so as not to converse , and then , perhaps , they would not get each other into mischief . 
I am sure , auntie , said Kate , you have missed our small nephews and nieces ever since their visit ended . 
How still the house has been ! I do not know , was the answer . 
I hear a great many noises about the house . 
Somebody comes in late at night . 
Perhaps it is Philip but he comes very softly in , wipes his feet very gently , like a clean thief , and goes up stairs . 
O auntie ! said Kate , you know you have got over all such fancies . 
They are not fancies , said Aunt Jane . 
But do you really hear anything ? Yes , said her aunt . 
Ruth declares she hears noises in those closets that I had nailed up , you know but that is nothing of course she does . 
What I hear at night is the creaking of stairs , when I know that nobody ought to be stirring . 
If you observe , you will hear it too . 
At least , I should think you would , only that somehow everything always seems to stop , when it is necessary to prove that I am foolish . 
The girls had no especial engagement that evening , and so got into a great excitement on the stairway over Aunt Jane's solicitudes . 
Once they heard something fall on the floor , and roll from step to step and yet they themselves stood on the stairway , and nothing passed . 
THE next evening Kate and Philip went to a ball . 
She stopped to hear , but there was silence . 
It seemed to come from the direction of Malbone's room , which was in the third story . 
Again came the cry , more gently , ending in a sort of sobbing monologue . 
Gliding rapidly up stairs in the dark , she paused at Philip's deserted room , but the door was locked , and there was profound stillness . 
She then descended , and pausing at the great landing , heard other steps descending also . 
Retreating to the end of the hall , she hastily lighted a candle , when the steps ceased . 
With her accustomed nerve , wishing to explore the thing thoroughly , she put out the light and kept still . 
As she expected , the footsteps presently recommenced , descending stealthily , but drawing no nearer , and seeming rather like sounds from an adjoining house , heard through a party wall . 
This was impossible , as the house stood alone . 
As she looked , however , a chill breath blew in from another direction , extinguishing her lamp . 
This air came from the outer door of the cellar , and she had just time to withdraw into a corner before a man's steps approached , passing close by her . 
Even Hope's strong nerves had begun to yield , and a cold shudder went through her . 
Not daring to move , she pressed herself against the wall , and her heart seemed to stop as the unseen stranger passed . 
Instead of his ascending where she had come down , as she had expected , she heard him grope his way toward the door she had seen in the wall . 
She remembered that the girls had talked of secret stairways in that house , though she had no conception whither they could lead , unless to some of the shut up closets . 
She steadily followed , treading cautiously upon each creaking step . 
The stairway was very narrow , and formed a regular spiral as in a turret . 
This glimpse of reality reassured her . 
She had begun to discover where she was . 
Relieved of that slight shudder at the supernatural which sometimes affects the healthiest nerves , Hope paused to consider . 
To alarm the neighborhood was her first thought . 
A slight murmuring from above dispelled it she must first reconnoitre a few steps farther . 
As she ascended a little way , a gleam shone upon her , and down the damp stairway came a fragrant odor , as from some perfumed chamber . 
Then a door was shut and reopened . 
Eager beyond expression , she followed on . 
Another step , and she stood at the door of Malbone's apartment . 
The room was brilliant with light the doors and windows were heavily draped . 
Fruit and flowers and wine were on the table . 
Hope stopped a moment and leaned against the door , as her eyes met Malbone's . 
Malbone tried to speak , but failed tried again , and brought forth only a whisper that broke into clearer speech as the words went on . 
No use to explain , he said . 
Lambert is in New York . 
Mrs. Meredith is expecting her to night after the ball . 
What can we do ? Hope covered her face as he spoke she could bear anything better than to have him say we , as if no gulf had opened between them . 
If the roof in falling to crush them had crushed her also , she could scarcely have seemed more rigid or more powerless . 
It passed , and the next moment she was on her feet again , capable of action . 
She must be taken , she said very clearly , but in a lower tone than usual , to my chamber . 
Then pointing to the candles , she said , more huskily , We must not be seen . 
Every syllable seemed to exhaust her . 
But as Philip obeyed her words , he saw her move suddenly and stand by Emilia's side . 
She put out both arms as if to lift the young girl , and carry her away . 
You cannot , said Philip , putting her gently aside , while she shrank from his touch . 
Then he took Emilia in his arms and bore her to the door , Hope preceding . 
Motioning him to pause a moment , she turned the lock softly , and looked out into the dark entry . 
She went out , and he followed with his motionless burden . 
They walked stealthily , like guilty things , yet every slight motion seemed to ring in their ears . 
It was chilly , and Hope shivered . 
The clock struck twelve , and it seemed as if it struck a thousand . 
When they reached Hope's door , she turned and put out her arms for Emilia , as for a child . 
Every expression had now gone from Hope's face but a sort of stony calmness , which put her infinitely farther from Malbone than had the momentary struggle . 
She , the source of all this woe , looked the only representative of innocence between two guilty things . 
Scheffer's Christus Consolator was upon the walls , and the benign figure seemed to spread wider its arms of mercy , to take in a few sad hearts more . 
Hope bore Emilia into the light and purity and warmth , while Malbone was shut out into the darkness and the chill . 
HAD Emilia chosen out of life's whole armory of weapons the means of disarming Hope , she could have found nothing so effectual as nature had supplied in her unconsciousness . 
There was a quality in Emilia which would have always produced something very like antagonism in Hope , had she not been her sister . 
Once having laid down the unconscious form , it seemed for a moment as if she could no more touch it than she could lay her hand amid flames . 
Hope felt a terrible hardness closing over her heart . 
There was nothing to be seen except the steady beacon of the light house and a pale green glimmer , like an earthly star , from an anchored vessel . 
The night wind came softly in , soothing her with a touch like a mother's , in its grateful coolness . 
It may be from this influence , she vaguely mused within herself , that the ocean derives its endless song of sorrow . 
Perhaps we shall know the meaning when we understand that of the stars , and of our own sad lives . 
She rose again and went to the bedside . 
Her thoughts still clung heavily around one thought , as the white fog clung round the house . 
Who could devise anything ? No one . 
Almost always in perplexities there is some thread by resolutely holding to which one escapes at last . 
There could probably be no concealment , certainly no explanation . 
In a few days John Lambert would return , and then the storm must break . 
He was probably a stern , jealous man , whose very dulness , once aroused , would be more formidable than if he had possessed keener perceptions . 
Still her thoughts did not dwell on Philip . 
She felt now , as then , the capacity to act with more than her accustomed resolution , though all that was within her seemed boiling up into her brain . 
As for Philip , all seemed a mere negation there was a vacuum where his place had been . 
Then , if separated , she could only marry Philip . 
Hope nerved herself to think of that , and it cost less effort than she expected . 
There seemed a numbness on that side , instead of pain . 
Hope knew he would not knew that even the simple hearted and straightforward Harry would be far more capable of such heroism than the sentimental Malbone . 
She pitied herself , that lowest ebb of melancholy self consciousness . 
She went back to Emilia , and , seating herself , studied every line of the girl's face , the soft texture of her hair , the veining of her eyelids . 
They were so lovely , she felt a sort of physical impulse to kiss them , as if they belonged to some utter stranger , whom she might be nursing in a hospital . 
Emilia looked as innocent as when Hope had tended her in the cradle . 
Are our lives ever so pure as our dreams ? This thought somehow smote across her conscience , always so strong , and stirred it into a kind of spasm of introspection . 
How selfish have I , too , been ! she thought . 
I saw only what I wished to see , did only what I preferred . 
, I could not see that I was separating him from one whom he might perhaps have truly loved . 
Hope watched her in a vague , distant way , took note of the minutest motion , yet as if some vast weight hung upon her own limbs and made all interference impossible . 
Still there was a fascination of sympathy in dwelling on that atom of discomfort , that tiny suffering , which she alone could remove . 
Hope had soberly said to herself , just before , that death would be better than life for her young sister . 
She approached her fingers to the offending tress , very slowly , half withholding them at the very last , as if the touch would burn her . 
She was almost surprised that it did not . 
She looked to see if it did not hurt Emilia . 
But it now seemed as if the slumbering girl enjoyed the caressing contact of the smooth fingers , and turned her head , almost imperceptibly , to meet them . 
This was more than Hope could bear . 
THIS was the history of Emilia's concealed visits to Malbone . 
It is only for being what is called by that name that I abhor him . 
I thought it was the only way to save Hope . 
She has been very good to me , and perhaps I should love her , if I could love anybody . 
Now I have done what will only make more misery , for I cannot bear it . 
Philip , I am alone in this wide world , except for you . 
Tell me what to do . 
I will haunt you till you die , unless you tell me . 
Answer this , or I will write again . 
She was so excited , it was equally dangerous to send her away or to admit her , and he drew her in , darkening the windows and locking the door . 
On the whole , it was not so bad as he expected at least , there was less violence and more despair . 
She covered her face with her hands , and writhed in anguish , when she said that she had utterly degraded herself by this loveless marriage . 
She scarcely mentioned her husband . 
She made no complaint of him , and even spoke of him as generous . 
It seemed as if this made it worse , and as if she would be happier if she could expend herself in hating him . 
She spoke of him rather as a mere witness to some shame for which she herself was responsible bearing him no malice , but tortured by the thought that he should exist . 
Then she turned on Malbone . 
Oh ! I wish he were here now , even he , any one who loved me truly , and whom I could love only a little . 
I would go away with such a person anywhere , and never trouble you and Hope any more . 
What shall I do ? Philip , you might tell me what to do . 
Once you told me always to come to you . 
What can you do ? he asked gloomily , in return . 
I cannot imagine , she said , with a desolate look , more pitiable than passion , on her young face . 
I wish to save Hope , and to save my to save Mr. Lambert . 
Philip , you do not love me . 
I do not call it love . 
There is no passion in your veins it is only a sort of sympathetic selfishness . 
Hope is infinitely better than you are , and I believe she is more capable of loving . 
I began by hating her , but if she loves you as I think she does , she has treated me more generously than ever one woman treated another . 
For she could not look at me and not know that I loved you . 
It swept him away this revival of passion was irresistible . 
When her pent up feeling was once uttered , she turned to his love as a fancied salvation . 
It was a terrible remedy . 
She had never looked more beautiful , and yet she seemed to have grown old at once her very caresses appeared to burn . 
Descending this , he went forth with her into the dark and silent night . 
The mist hung around the house the wet leaves fluttered and fell upon their cheeks the water lapped desolately against the pier . 
Philip found a carriage and sent her back to Mrs. Meredith's , where she was staying during the brief absence of John Lambert . 
These concealed meetings , once begun , became an absorbing excitement . 
She came several times , staying half an hour , an hour , two hours . 
They were together long enough for suffering , never long enough for soothing . 
It was a poor substitute for happiness . 
Each time she came , Malbone wished that she might never go or never return . 
His warier nature was feverish with solicitude and with self reproach he liked the excitement of slight risks , but this was far too intense , the vibrations too extreme . 
She , on the other hand , rode triumphant over waves of passion which cowed him . 
He dared not exclude her he dared not continue to admit her he dared not free himself he could not be happy . 
The privacy of the concealed stairway saved them from outward dangers , but not from inward fears . 
Their interviews were first blissful , then anxious , then sad , then stormy . 
AUNT JANE TO THE RESCUE . 
THE thing that saves us from insanity during great grief is that there is usually something to do , and the mind composes itself to the mechanical task of adjusting the details . 
Hope dared not look forward an inch into the future that way madness lay . 
Profoundly perplexed what to say or not to say to her , Hope longed with her whole soul for an adviser . 
Harry and Kate were both away , and besides , she shrank from darkening their young lives as hers had been darkened . 
She resolved to seek counsel in the one person who most thoroughly distrusted Emilia , Aunt Jane . 
This lady was in a particularly happy mood that day . 
Emilia , who did all kinds of fine needle work exquisitely , had just embroidered for Aunt Jane some pillow cases . 
Aunt Jane , who with all her penetration as to facts was often very guileless as to motives , was thoroughly touched by the humility and the embroidery . 
All last night , she said , I kept waking up , and thinking about Christian charity and my pillow cases . 
Aunt Jane kept her eyes steadily fixed on Hope's sad face , and , when the tale was ended , drew her down and kissed her lips . 
Certainly , said Aunt Jane . 
There is but one way to do that . 
I will call on her myself . 
You , auntie ? said Hope . 
Yes , I , said her aunt . 
I have owed her a call for five years . 
It is the only thing that will excite her so much as to put all else out of her head . 
O auntie ! said Hope , greatly relieved , if you only would ! But ought you really to go out ? It is almost raining . 
I shall go , said Aunt Jane , decisively , if it rains little boys ! But will not Mrs. Meredith wonder ? began Hope . 
That is one advantage , interrupted her aunt , of being an absurd old woman . 
Nobody ever wonders at anything I do , or else it is that they never stop wondering . 
She sent Ruth erelong to order the horses . 
Hope collected her various wrappers , and Ruth , returning , got her mistress into a state of preparation . 
If I might say one thing more , Hope whispered . 
Certainly , said her aunt . 
Ruth , go to my chamber , and get me a pin . 
What kind of a pin , ma'am ? asked that meek handmaiden , from the doorway . 
What a question ! said her indignant mistress . 
The common pin of North America . 
Now , Hope ? as the door closed . 
I think it better , auntie , said Hope , that Philip should not stay here longer at present . 
You can truly say that the house is full , and I have just had a note from him , said Aunt Jane severely . 
He has gone to lodge at the hotel . 
What next ? Aunt Jane , said Hope , looking her full in the face , I have not the slightest idea what to do next . 
I can see no way out , pursued Hope . 
Darling ! said Aunt Jane , with a voice full of womanly sweetness , there is always a way out , or else the world would have stopped long ago . 
Perhaps it would have been better if it had stopped , but you see it has not . 
All we can do is , to live on and try our best . 
She bade Hope leave Emilia to her , and furthermore stipulated that Hope should go to her pupils as usual , that afternoon , as it was their last lesson . 
The young girl shrank from the effort , but the elder lady was inflexible . 
She had her own purpose in it . 
Hope once out of the way , Aunt Jane could deal with Emilia . 
No human being , when met face to face with Aunt Jane , had ever failed to yield up to her the whole truth she sought . 
Emilia was on that day no exception . 
She was prostrate , languid , humble , denied nothing , was ready to concede every point but one . 
Never , while she lived , would she dwell beneath John Lambert's roof again . 
She had left it impulsively , she admitted , scarce knowing what she did . 
But she would never return there to live . 
There were new servants in the house , a new captain on the yacht she would trust Mr. Lambert's comfort to none of them she would do her full duty . 
Duty ! the more utterly she felt herself to be gliding away from him forever , the more pains she was ready to lavish in doing these nothings well . 
Sweet and plaintive as the child's face was , it had a glimmer of wildness and a hunted look , that baffled Aunt Jane a little , and compelled her to temporize . 
Meantime Hope gave her inevitable music lesson , so absorbed in her own thoughts that it was all as mechanical as the metronome . 
Presently they sprang forward with a great jerk , and a little Irish child was thrown beneath the wheel . 
She screamed and then grew faint , as Hope lifted her . 
The mother received the burden with a wail of anguish the other Irishwomen pressed around her with the dense and suffocating sympathy of their nation . 
Hope bade one and another run for a physician , but nobody stirred . 
There was no surgical aid within a mile or more . 
Hope looked round in despair , then glanced at her own disordered garments . 
As sure as you live ! shouted a well known voice from a carriage which had stopped behind them . 
If that isn't Hope what's her name , wish I may never ! Here's a lark ! Let me come there ! And the speaker pushed through the crowd . 
Miss Ingleside , said Hope , decisively , this child's arm is broken . 
There is nobody to go for a physician . 
Jones , junior , this lady will join us . 
Don't look so scared , man . 
Are you anxious about your cushions or your reputation ? The youth simpered and disclaimed . 
Jump in , then , Miss Maxwell . 
It's only the family carriage surname and arms of Jones . 
Lucky there are no parents to the fore . 
Put my shawl over you , so . 
O Blanche ! said Hope , what injustice I've done myself ? said the volatile damsel . 
Not a doubt of it . 
That's my style , you know . 
But I have some sense I know who's who . 
Now , Jones , junior , make your man handle the ribbons . 
I've always had a grudge against that ordinance about fast driving , and now's our chance . 
And the sacred ordinance , with all other proprieties , was left in ruins that day . 
Those who had tolerated all this girl's previous improprieties were obliged to admit that the line must be drawn somewhere . 
After all , Hope , she would say , the fastest thing I ever did was under your orders . 
THE members of the household were all at the window about noon , next day , watching the rise of a storm . 
A murky wing of cloud , shaped like a hawk's , hung over the low western hills across the bay . 
Then the hawk became an eagle , and the eagle a gigantic phantom , that hovered over half the visible sky . 
As the cloud ascended , the water grew rapidly blacker , and in half an hour broke into jets of white foam , all over its surface , with an angry look . 
Meantime a white film of fog spread down the bay from the northward . 
The wind hauled from southwest to northwest , so suddenly and strongly that all the anchored boats seemed to have swung round instantaneously , without visible process . 
All the depth of blackness had left the sky , and there remained only an obscure and ominous gray , through which the lightning flashed white , not red . 
Others launched skiffs in sheltered places , and pulled out bareheaded to bail out their fishing boats and keep them from swamping at their moorings . 
The shore was thronged with men in oilskin clothes and by women with shawls over their heads . 
Just after the storm had passed its height , two veritable wild horses were reined up at the door , and Philip burst in , his usual self composure gone . 
Emilia is out sailing ! he exclaimed , alone with Lambert's boatman , in this gale . 
They say she was bound for Narragansett . 
Impossible ! cried Hope , turning pale . 
I left her not three hours ago . 
Then she remembered that Emilia had spoken of going on board the yacht , to superintend some arrangements , but had said no more about it , when she opposed it . 
Harry ! said Aunt Jane , quickly , from her chair by the window , see that fisherman . 
He has just come ashore and is telling something . 
The fisherman had indeed seen Lambert's boat , which was well known . 
Something seemed to be the matter with the sail , but before the storm struck her , it had been hauled down . 
They must have taken in water enough , as it was . 
He had himself been obliged to bail out three times , running in from the reef . 
Was there any landing which they could reach ? Harry asked . 
There was none , but the light ship lay right in their track , and if they had good luck , they might get aboard of her . 
The boatman ? said Philip , anxiously , Mr. Lambert's boatman is he a good sailor ? Don't know , was the reply . 
Dutchman , Frenchman , Portegee , or some kind of a foreigner . 
Seems to understand himself in a boat , said another . 
Mr. Malbone knows him , said a third . 
The same that dove with the young woman under the steamboat paddles . 
Good grit , said the first . 
That's so , was the answer . 
But grit don't teach a man the channel . 
All agreed to this axiom but as there was so strong a probability that the voyagers had reached the light ship , there seemed less cause for fear . 
The next question was , whether it was possible to follow them . 
All agreed that it would be foolish for any boat to attempt it , till the wind had blown itself out , which might be within half an hour . 
After that , some predicted a calm , some a fog , some a renewal of the storm there was the usual variety of opinions . 
At any rate , there might perhaps be an interval during which they could go out , if the gentlemen did not mind a wet jacket . 
Within the half hour came indeed an interval of calm , and a light shone behind the clouds from the west . 
It faded soon into a gray fog , with puffs of wind from the southwest again . 
When the young men went out with the boatmen , the water had grown more quiet , save where angry little gusts ruffled it . 
But these gusts made it necessary to carry a double reef , and they made but little progress against wind and tide . 
A dark gray fog , broken by frequent wind flaws , makes the ugliest of all days on the water . 
A still , pale fog is soothing it lulls nature to a kind of repose . 
As the boat floated on , every sight and sound appeared strange . 
The music from the fort came sudden and startling through the vaporous eddies . 
A tall white schooner rose instantaneously near them , like a light house . 
They could see the steam of the factory floating low , seeking some outlet between cloud and water . 
It seemed to have a vast inorganic life of its own , a volition and a whim . 
Suddenly something vast towered amid the mist above them . 
It was the French war ship returned to her anchorage once more , and seeming in that dim atmosphere to be something spectral and strange that had taken form out of the elements . 
The muzzles of great guns rose tier above tier , along her side great boats hung one above another , on successive pairs of davits , at her stern . 
So high was her hull , that the topmost boat and the topmost gun appeared to be suspended in middle air and yet this was but the beginning of her altitude . 
They were swept past it the fog closed in it was necessary to land near the Fort , and proceed on foot . 
They walked across the rough peninsula , while the mist began to disperse again , and they were buoyant with expectation . 
As they toiled onward , the fog suddenly met them at the turn of a lane where it had awaited them , like an enemy . 
As they passed into those gray and impalpable arms , the whole world changed again . 
They walked toward the sound of the sea . 
As they approached it , the dull hue that lay upon it resembled that of the leaden sky . 
The two elements could hardly be distinguished except as the white outlines of the successive breakers were lifted through the fog . 
The lines of surf appeared constantly to multiply upon the beach , and yet , on counting them , there were never any more . 
Presently a frail gleam of something like the ghost of dead sunshine made them look toward the west . 
Leaving the beach on their right , and passing the high rocks of the Pirate's Cave , they presently descended to the water's edge once more . 
The cliffs rose to a distorted height in the dimness sprays of withered grass nodded along the edge , like Ossian's spectres . 
Light seemed to be vanishing from the universe , leaving them alone with the sea . 
And when a solitary loon uttered his wild cry , and rising , sped away into the distance , it was as if life were following light into an equal annihilation . 
That sense of vague terror , with which the ocean sometimes controls the fancy , began to lay its grasp on them . 
They remembered that Emilia , in speaking once of her intense shrinking from death , had said that the sea was the only thing from which she would not fear to meet it . 
Ever and anon there was a distinct crash of heavier sound , as if some special barricade had at length been beaten in , and the garrison must look to their inner defences . 
AS the night closed in , the wind rose steadily , still blowing from the southwest . 
The boat had been seen sailing for the Narragansett shore , and when the squall came , the boatman had lowered and reefed the sail , and stood for the light ship . 
They must be on board of her , if anywhere . 
There are safe there ? asked Philip , eagerly . 
Only place where they would be safe , then , said the spokesman . 
Unless the light ship parts , said an old fellow . 
Parts ! said the other . 
Sixty fathom of two inch chain , and old Joe talks about parting . 
Foolish , of course , said Philip but it's a dangerous shore . 
That's so , was the answer . 
Never saw so many lines of reef show outside , neither . 
There's an old saying on this shore , said Joe When Price's Neck goes to Brenton's Reef , Body and soul will come to grief . 
But when Brenton's Reef comes to Price's Neck , Soul and body are both a wreck . 
What does it mean ? asked Harry . 
It only means , said somebody , that when you see it white all the way out from the Neck to the Reef , you can't take the inside passage . 
But what does the last half mean ? persisted Harry . 
Weary and restless with vain waiting , they looked from the doorway at the weather . 
They closed the door upon the flickering fire and the uncouth shadows within , and went forth into the night . 
At first the solid blackness seemed to lay a weight on their foreheads . 
There was absolutely nothing to be seen but the two lights of the light ship , glaring from the dark sea like a wolf's eyes from a cavern . 
Some sailor's doggerel , said Harry , indifferently . 
Here is Price's Neck before us , and yonder is Brenton's Reef . 
Where ? said Philip , looking round bewildered . 
The lights had gone , as if the wolf , weary of watching , had suddenly closed his eyes , and slumbered in his cave . 
But this was not so startling as what it showed in the foreground . 
There's one wreck that is bound to make many . 
The light ship has parted . 
Drifting ashore , said Harry , his accustomed clearness of head coming back at a flash . 
Where will she strike ? Price's Neck , said the sailor . 
Harry turned to Philip and spoke to him , shouting in his ear the explanation . 
Malbone's lips moved mechanically , but he said nothing . 
Passively , he let Harry take him by the arm , and lead him on . 
Following the sailor , they rounded a projecting point , and found themselves a little sheltered from the wind . 
Not knowing the region , they stumbled about among the rocks , and scarcely knew when they neared the surf , except when a wave came swashing round their very feet . 
Pausing at the end of a cove , they stood beside their conductor , and their eyes , now grown accustomed , could make out vaguely the outlines of the waves . 
Still the wild waves reared their heads , like savage , crested animals , now white , now black , looking in from the entrance of the cove . 
And now there silently drifted upon them something higher , vaster , darker than themselves , the doomed vessel . 
she had already drifted , and she rose and fell more than once on the high waves at the very mouth of the cove , like a wild bird hovering ere it pounces . 
They could hear from the crew a mingled sound , that came as a shout of excitement from some and a shriek of despair from others . 
The vivid lightning revealed for a moment those on shipboard to those on shore and blinding as it was , it lasted long enough to show figures gesticulating and pointing . 
The old sailor , Mitchell , tried to build a fire among the rocks nearest the vessel , but it was impossible , because of the wind . 
This was a disappointment , for the light would have taken away half the danger , and more than half the terror . 
Though the cove was more quiet than the ocean , yet it was fearful enough , even there . 
The men from the farmhouse had meanwhile come down with ropes . 
It was simply impossible to judge with any accuracy of the distance of the ship . 
One of these new comers , who declared that she was lodged very near , went to a point of rocks , and shouted to those on board to heave him a rope . 
The tempest suppressed his voice , as it had put out the fire . 
But perhaps the lightning had showed him to the dark figures on the stern for when the next flash came , they saw a rope flung , which fell short . 
The real distance was more than a hundred yards . 
Then there was a long interval of darkness . 
The moment the next flash came they saw a figure let down by a rope from the stern of the vessel , while the hungry waves reared like wolves to seize it . 
Everybody crowded down to the nearest rocks , looking this way and that for a head to appear . 
They pressed eagerly in every direction where a bit of plank or a barrel head floated they fancied faint cries here and there , and went aimlessly to and fro . 
A new effort , after half a dozen failures , sent a blaze mounting up fitfully among the rocks , startling all with the sudden change its blessed splendor made . 
He was the young foreigner , John Lambert's boatman . 
He bore still around him the rope that was to save the rest . 
How pale and eager their faces looked as they bent above him ! But the eagerness was all gone from his , and only the pallor left . 
He was able to explain that the ship had been severely strained , and that all on board believed she would go to pieces before morning . 
Two ropes were then hauled on board the vessel , a larger and a smaller . 
The rope dropped beneath her weight , and all that could be done from shore was to haul her in as fast as possible , to abbreviate the period of buffeting and suffocation . 
She was so near the rocks that hands were already stretched to grasp her , when there came one of the great surging waves that sometimes filled the basin . 
Fifteen minutes after , the hammock came ashore empty , the lashings having parted . 
The cold daybreak was just opening , though the wind still blew keenly , when they found the body of Emilia . 
It was swathed in a roll of sea weed , lying in the edge of the surf , on a broad , flat rock near where the young boatman had come ashore . 
The face was not disfigured the clothing was only torn a little , and tangled closely round her but the life was gone . 
It was Philip who first saw her and he stood beside her for a moment motionless , stunned into an aspect of tranquility . 
This , then , was the end . 
For once , he must force even his accommodating and evasive nature to meet the plain , blank truth . 
Could he have fancied such a scene beforehand , he would have vowed that no hand but his should touch the breathless form of Emilia . 
As it was , he instinctively made way for the quick gathering of the others , as if almost any one else had a better right to be there . 
The storm had blown itself out by sunrise the wind had shifted , beating down the waves it seemed as if everything in nature were exhausted . 
The very tide had ebbed away . 
it is wonderfully like the look I have seen in the face of some dead soldier , on whom war had done its worst . 
And not far from the vessel , in a chamber of the seaside farm house , lay the tenderer and fairer wreck of Emilia . 
Her storms and her passions were ended . 
The censure of the world , the anguish of friends , the clinging arms of love , were nothing now to her . 
Again the soft shelter of unconsciousness had clasped her in but this time the trance was longer and the faintness was unto death . 
From the moment of her drifting ashore , it was the young boatman who had assumed the right to care for her and to direct everything . 
More than lover , said the young Swiss , overhearing . 
She was my wife before God , when you took her from me . 
In my country , a betrothal is as sacred as a marriage . 
Then came that man , he filled her heart with illusions , and took her away in my absence . 
When my brother was here in the corvette , he found her for me . 
Then I came for her I saved her sister then I saw the name on the card and would not give my own . 
She saw me in the yacht , only once she knew me she was afraid . 
Then she said , 'Perhaps I still love you , a little I do not know I am in despair take me from this home I hate . 
We sailed that day in the small boat for Narragansett , I know not where . 
She hardly looked up or spoke but for me , I cared for nothing since she was with me . 
When the storm came , she was frightened , and said , 'It is a retribution . 
I said , 'You shall never go back . 
You cannot take her from me . 
Once on board the light ship , she had been assigned the captain's state room , while Antoine watched at the door . 
She seemed to shrink from him whenever he went to speak to her , he owned , but she answered kindly and gently , begging to be left alone . 
When at last the vessel parted her moorings , he persuaded Emilia to come on deck and be lashed to the mast , where she sat without complaint . 
Death answers no questions it only makes them needless . 
The morning brought to the scene John Lambert , just arrived by land from New York . 
The passion of John Lambert for his wife was of that kind which ennobles while it lasts , but which rarely outlasts marriage . 
Let now death change that form to marble , and instantly it resumes its virgin holiness though the presence of life did not sanctify , its departure does . 
It is only the true lover to whom the breathing form is as sacred as the breathless . 
While Philip wandered off silent and lonely with his grief , John Lambert knelt by the beautiful remains , talking inarticulately , his eyes streaming with unchecked tears . 
Again was Emilia , in her marble paleness , the calm centre of a tragedy she herself had caused . 
The wild , ungoverned child was the image of peace it was the stolid and prosperous man who was in the storm . 
It was not till Hope came that there was any change . 
Then his prostrate nature sought hers , as the needle leaps to the iron the first touch of her hand , the sight of her kiss upon Emilia's forehead , made him strong . 
It was the thorough subjection of a worldly man to the higher organization of a noble woman , and thenceforth it never varied . 
After it was all ended , Hope told him everything that had happened but in that wild moment of his despair she told him nothing . 
The breaking of Hope's engagement to Philip was attributed to every cause but the true one . 
And when the storm of the great Rebellion broke over the land , its vast calamity absorbed all minor griefs . 
THANK God ! it is not within the power of one man's errors to blight the promise of a life like that of Hope . 
It is but a feeble destiny that is wrecked by passion , when it should be ennobled . 
Kindle the light of the light house , and it has nothing to do , except to shine . 
There is for it no wrong direction . 
Somewhere there is a ship that needs it , or if not , the light does its duty . 
We must leave her here . 
The greater part of the human race live out their mortal years without attaining more than a far off glimpse of the very highest joy . 
Were this life all , its very happiness were sadness . 
If , as I doubt not , there be another sphere , then that which is unfulfilled in this must yet find completion , nothing omitted , nothing denied . 
And though a thousand oracles should pronounce this thought an idle dream , neither Hope nor I would believe them . 
It was a radiant morning of last February when I walked across the low hills to the scene of the wreck . 
Leaving the road before reaching the Fort , I struck across the wild moss country , full of boulders and footpaths and stunted cedars and sullen ponds . 
I crossed the height of land , where the ruined lookout stands like the remains of a Druidical temple , and then went down toward the ocean . 
Banks and ridges of snow lay here and there among the fields , and the white lines of distant capes seemed but drifts running seaward . 
The rocks were dark with moisture , steaming in the sun . 
Great sheets of ice , white masks of departing winter , clung to every projecting cliff , or slid with crash and shiver into the surge . 
