Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
We know not whether Aylmer possessed this degree of faith in man's ultimate control over Nature . 
He had devoted himself , however , too unreservedly to scientific studies ever to be weaned from them by any second passion . 
Such a union accordingly took place , and was attended with truly remarkable consequences and a deeply impressive moral . 
One day , very soon after their marriage , Aylmer sat gazing at his wife with a trouble in his countenance that grew stronger until he spoke . 
To tell you the truth it has been so often called a charm that I was simple enough to imagine it might be so . 
Ah , upon another face perhaps it might , replied her husband but never on yours . 
Shocks you , my husband ! cried Georgiana , deeply hurt at first reddening with momentary anger , but then bursting into tears . 
In the usual state of her complexion a healthy though delicate bloom the mark wore a tint of deeper crimson , which imperfectly defined its shape amid the surrounding rosiness . 
When she blushed it gradually became more indistinct , and finally vanished amid the triumphant rush of blood that bathed the whole cheek with its brilliant glow . 
But if any shifting motion caused her to turn pale there was the mark again , a crimson stain upon the snow , in what Aylmer sometimes deemed an almost fearful distinctness . 
Its shape bore not a little similarity to the human hand , though of the smallest pygmy size . 
Many a desperate swain would have risked life for the privilege of pressing his lips to the mysterious hand . 
It must not be concealed , however , that the impression wrought by this fairy sign manual varied exceedingly , according to the difference of temperament in the beholders . 
But it would be as reasonable to say that one of those small blue stains which sometimes occur in the purest statuary marble would convert the Eve of Powers to a monster . 
After his marriage , for he thought little or nothing of the matter before , Aylmer discovered that this was the case with himself . 
Trifling as it at first appeared , it so connected itself with innumerable trains of thought and modes of feeling that it became the central point of all . 
Georgiana soon learned to shudder at his gaze . 
And you did dream of it ? continued Georgiana , hastily for she dreaded lest a gush of tears should interrupt what she had to say . 
A terrible dream ! I wonder that you can forget it . 
Aylmer now remembered his dream . 
When the dream had shaped itself perfectly in his memory , Aylmer sat in his wife's presence with a guilty feeling . 
Aylmer , resumed Georgiana , solemnly , I know not what may be the cost to both of us to rid me of this fatal birthmark . 
Perhaps its removal may cause cureless deformity or it may be the stain goes as deep as life itself . 
I am convinced of the perfect practicability of its removal . 
If there be the remotest possibility of it , continued Georgiana , let the attempt be made at whatever risk . 
Danger is nothing to me for life , while this hateful mark makes me the object of your horror and disgust , life is a burden which I would fling down with joy . 
Either remove this dreadful hand , or take my wretched life ! You have deep science . 
All the world bears witness of it . 
You have achieved great wonders . 
I have already given this matter the deepest thought thought which might almost have enlightened me to create a being less perfect than yourself . 
Georgiana , you have led me deeper than ever into the heart of science . 
It is resolved , then , said Georgiana , faintly smiling . 
And , Aylmer , spare me not , though you should find the birthmark take refuge in my heart at last . 
Her husband tenderly kissed her cheek her right cheek not that which bore the impress of the crimson hand . 
She permits us , indeed , to mar , but seldom to mend , and , like a jealous patentee , on no account to make . 
As he led her over the threshold of the laboratory , Georgiana was cold and tremulous . 
Aminadab ! Aminadab ! shouted Aylmer , stamping violently on the floor . 
Throw open the door of the boudoir , Aminadab , said Aylmer , and burn a pastil . 
When Georgiana recovered consciousness she found herself breathing an atmosphere of penetrating fragrance , the gentle potency of which had recalled her from her deathlike faintness . 
The scene around her looked like enchantment . 
For aught Georgiana knew , it might be a pavilion among the clouds . 
Where am I ? Ah , I remember , said Georgiana , faintly and she placed her hand over her cheek to hide the terrible mark from her husband's eyes . 
Fear not , dearest ! exclaimed he . 
Do not shrink from me ! Believe me , Georgiana , I even rejoice in this single imperfection , since it will be such a rapture to remove it . 
Oh , spare me ! sadly replied his wife . 
Pray do not look at it again . 
I never can forget that convulsive shudder . 
Airy figures , absolutely bodiless ideas , and forms of unsubstantial beauty came and danced before her , imprinting their momentary footsteps on beams of light . 
Then again , when she felt a wish to look forth from her seclusion , immediately , as if her thoughts were answered , the procession of external existence flitted across a screen . 
When wearied of this , Aylmer bade her cast her eyes upon a vessel containing a quantity of earth . 
She did so , with little interest at first but was soon startled to perceive the germ of a plant shooting upward from the soil . 
Then came the slender stalk the leaves gradually unfolded themselves and amid them was a perfect and lovely flower . 
It is magical ! cried Georgiana . 
I dare not touch it . 
Nay , pluck it , answered Aylmer , pluck it , and inhale its brief perfume while you may . 
The flower will wither in a few moments and leave nothing save its brown seed vessels but thence may be perpetuated a race as ephemeral as itself . 
But Georgiana had no sooner touched the flower than the whole plant suffered a blight , its leaves turning coal black as if by the agency of fire . 
There was too powerful a stimulus , said Aylmer , thoughtfully . 
To make up for this abortive experiment , he proposed to take her portrait by a scientific process of his own invention . 
It was to be effected by rays of light striking upon a polished plate of metal . 
Aylmer snatched the metallic plate and threw it into a jar of corrosive acid . 
Soon , however , he forgot these mortifying failures . 
Not less singular were his opinions in regard to the elixir vitae . 
Aylmer , are you in earnest ? asked Georgiana , looking at him with amazement and fear . 
It is terrible to possess such power , or even to dream of possessing it . 
Oh , do not tremble , my love , said her husband . 
At the mention of the birthmark , Georgiana , as usual , shrank as if a redhot iron had touched her cheek . 
Again Aylmer applied himself to his labors . 
After hours of absence , Aylmer reappeared and proposed that she should now examine his cabinet of chemical products and natural treasures of the earth . 
And what is this ? asked Georgiana , pointing to a small crystal globe containing a gold colored liquid . 
It is so beautiful to the eye that I could imagine it the elixir of life . 
In one sense it is , replied Aylmer or , rather , the elixir of immortality . 
It is the most precious poison that ever was concocted in this world . 
By its aid I could apportion the lifetime of any mortal at whom you might point your finger . 
The strength of the dose would determine whether he were to linger out years , or drop dead in the midst of a breath . 
No king on his guarded throne could keep his life if I , in my private station , should deem that the welfare of millions justified me in depriving him of it . 
Why do you keep such a terrific drug ? inquired Georgiana in horror . 
Do not mistrust me , dearest , said her husband , smiling its virtuous potency is yet greater than its harmful one . 
But see ! here is a powerful cosmetic . 
With a few drops of this in a vase of water , freckles may be washed away as easily as the hands are cleansed . 
A stronger infusion would take the blood out of the cheek , and leave the rosiest beauty a pale ghost . 
Is it with this lotion that you intend to bathe my cheek ? asked Georgiana , anxiously . 
Oh , no , hastily replied her husband this is merely superficial . 
Your case demands a remedy that shall go deeper . 
In his interviews with Georgiana , Aylmer generally made minute inquiries as to her sensations and whether the confinement of the rooms and the temperature of the atmosphere agreed with her . 
Still , whenever she dared to look into the mirror , there she beheld herself pale as a white rose and with the crimson birthmark stamped upon her cheek . 
Not even Aylmer now hated it so much as she . 
To dispel the tedium of the hours which her husband found it necessary to devote to the processes of combination and analysis , Georgiana turned over the volumes of his scientific library . 
In many dark old tomes she met with chapters full of romance and poetry . 
They were the works of philosophers of the middle ages , such as Albertus Magnus , Cornelius Agrippa , Paracelsus , and the famous friar who created the prophetic Brazen Head . 
The book , in truth , was both the history and emblem of his ardent , ambitious , imaginative , yet practical and laborious life . 
He handled physical details as if there were nothing beyond them yet spiritualized them all , and redeemed himself from materialism by his strong and eager aspiration towards the infinite . 
In his grasp the veriest clod of earth assumed a soul . 
Georgiana , as she read , reverenced Aylmer and loved him more profoundly than ever , but with a less entire dependence on his judgment than heretofore . 
Much as he had accomplished , she could not but observe that his most splendid successes were almost invariably failures , if compared with the ideal at which he aimed . 
His brightest diamonds were the merest pebbles , and felt to be so by himself , in comparison with the inestimable gems which lay hidden beyond his reach . 
The volume , rich with achievements that had won renown for its author , was yet as melancholy a record as ever mortal hand had penned . 
Perhaps every man of genius in whatever sphere might recognize the image of his own experience in Aylmer's journal . 
So deeply did these reflections affect Georgiana that she laid her face upon the open volume and burst into tears . 
In this situation she was found by her husband . 
It is dangerous to read in a sorcerer's books , said he with a smile , though his countenance was uneasy and displeased . 
Georgiana , there are pages in that volume which I can scarcely glance over and keep my senses . 
Take heed lest it prove as detrimental to you . 
It has made me worship you more than ever , said she . 
Ah , wait for this one success , rejoined he , then worship me if you will . 
I shall deem myself hardly unworthy of it . 
But come , I have sought you for the luxury of your voice . 
Sing to me , dearest . 
So she poured out the liquid music of her voice to quench the thirst of his spirit . 
He then took his leave with a boyish exuberance of gayety , assuring her that her seclusion would endure but a little longer , and that the result was already certain . 
Scarcely had he departed when Georgiana felt irresistibly impelled to follow him . 
She had forgotten to inform Aylmer of a symptom which for two or three hours past had begun to excite her attention . 
It was a sensation in the fatal birthmark , not painful , but which induced a restlessness throughout her system . 
Hastening after her husband , she intruded for the first time into the laboratory . 
There was a distilling apparatus in full operation . 
Around the room were retorts , tubes , cylinders , crucibles , and other apparatus of chemical research . 
An electrical machine stood ready for immediate use . 
The atmosphere felt oppressively close , and was tainted with gaseous odors which had been tormented forth by the processes of science . 
The severe and homely simplicity of the apartment , with its naked walls and brick pavement , looked strange , accustomed as Georgiana had become to the fantastic elegance of her boudoir . 
But what chiefly , indeed almost solely , drew her attention , was the aspect of Aylmer himself . 
Now , if there be a thought too much or too little , it is all over . 
Ho ! ho ! mumbled Aminadab . 
Look , master ! look ! Aylmer raised his eyes hastily , and at first reddened , then grew paler than ever , on beholding Georgiana . 
He rushed towards her and seized her arm with a gripe that left the print of his fingers upon it . 
Why do you come hither ? Have you no trust in your husband ? cried he , impetuously . 
Would you throw the blight of that fatal birthmark over my labors ? It is not well done . 
You mistrust your wife you have concealed the anxiety with which you watch the development of this experiment . 
Think not so unworthily of me , my husband . 
Tell me all the risk we run , and fear not that I shall shrink for my share in it is far less than your own . 
No , no , Georgiana ! said Aylmer , impatiently it must not be . 
I submit , replied she calmly . 
My noble wife , said Aylmer , deeply moved , I knew not the height and depth of your nature until now . 
Know , then , that this crimson hand , superficial as it seems , has clutched its grasp into your being with a strength of which I had no previous conception . 
I have already administered agents powerful enough to do aught except to change your entire physical system . 
Only one thing remains to be tried . 
If that fail us we are ruined . 
Why did you hesitate to tell me this ? asked she . 
Because , Georgiana , said Aylmer , in a low voice , there is danger . 
Danger ? There is but one danger that this horrible stigma shall be left upon my cheek ! cried Georgiana . 
Remove it , remove it , whatever be the cost , or we shall both go mad ! Heaven knows your words are too true , said Aylmer , sadly . 
And now , dearest , return to your boudoir . 
In a little while all will be tested . 
He conducted her back and took leave of her with a solemn tenderness which spoke far more than his words how much was now at stake . 
After his departure Georgiana became rapt in musings . 
She considered the character of Aylmer , and did it completer justice than at any previous moment . 
The sound of her husband's footsteps aroused her . 
He bore a crystal goblet containing a liquor colorless as water , but bright enough to be the draught of immortality . 
Aylmer was pale but it seemed rather the consequence of a highly wrought state of mind and tension of spirit than of fear or doubt . 
The concoction of the draught has been perfect , said he , in answer to Georgiana's look . 
Unless all my science have deceived me , it cannot fail . 
Save on your account , my dearest Aylmer , observed his wife , I might wish to put off this birthmark of mortality by relinquishing mortality itself in preference to any other mode . 
Life is but a sad possession to those who have attained precisely the degree of moral advancement at which I stand . 
Were I weaker and blinder it might be happiness . 
Were I stronger , it might be endured hopefully . 
But , being what I find myself , methinks I am of all mortals the most fit to die . 
You are fit for heaven without tasting death ! replied her husband But why do we speak of dying ? The draught cannot fail . 
Behold its effect upon this plant . 
On the window seat there stood a geranium diseased with yellow blotches , which had overspread all its leaves . 
Aylmer poured a small quantity of the liquid upon the soil in which it grew . 
In a little time , when the roots of the plant had taken up the moisture , the unsightly blotches began to be extinguished in a living verdure . 
There needed no proof , said Georgiana , quietly . 
Give me the goblet I joyfully stake all upon your word . 
Drink , then , thou lofty creature ! exclaimed Aylmer , with fervid admiration . 
There is no taint of imperfection on thy spirit . 
Thy sensible frame , too , shall soon be all perfect . 
She quaffed the liquid and returned the goblet to his hand . 
It is grateful , said she with a placid smile . 
Methinks it is like water from a heavenly fountain for it contains I know not what of unobtrusive fragrance and deliciousness . 
It allays a feverish thirst that had parched me for many days . 
Now , dearest , let me sleep . 
My earthly senses are closing over my spirit like the leaves around the heart of a rose at sunset . 
She spoke the last words with a gentle reluctance , as if it required almost more energy than she could command to pronounce the faint and lingering syllables . 
Scarcely had they loitered through her lips ere she was lost in slumber . 
Aylmer sat by her side , watching her aspect with the emotions proper to a man the whole value of whose existence was involved in the process now to be tested . 
Mingled with this mood , however , was the philosophic investigation characteristic of the man of science . 
Not the minutest symptom escaped him . 
Intense thought had set its stamp upon every previous page of that volume , but the thoughts of years were all concentrated upon the last . 
While thus employed , he failed not to gaze often at the fatal hand , and not without a shudder . 
Yet once , by a strange and unaccountable impulse he pressed it with his lips . 
His spirit recoiled , however , in the very act , and Georgiana , out of the midst of her deep sleep , moved uneasily and murmured as if in remonstrance . 
Again Aylmer resumed his watch . 
Nor was it without avail . 
The crimson hand , which at first had been strongly visible upon the marble paleness of Georgiana's cheek , now grew more faintly outlined . 
She remained not less pale than ever but the birthmark with every breath that came and went , lost somewhat of its former distinctness . 
Its presence had been awful its departure was more awful still . 
Watch the stain of the rainbow fading out the sky , and you will know how that mysterious symbol passed away . 
By Heaven ! it is well nigh gone ! said Aylmer to himself , in almost irrepressible ecstasy . 
I can scarcely trace it now . 
Success ! success ! And now it is like the faintest rose color . 
The lightest flush of blood across her cheek would overcome it . 
But she is so pale ! He drew aside the window curtain and suffered the light of natural day to fall into the room and rest upon her cheek . 
At the same time he heard a gross , hoarse chuckle , which he had long known as his servant Aminadab's expression of delight . 
These exclamations broke Georgiana's sleep . 
She slowly unclosed her eyes and gazed into the mirror which her husband had arranged for that purpose . 
But then her eyes sought Aylmer's face with a trouble and anxiety that he could by no means account for . 
My poor Aylmer ! murmured she . 
Poor ? Nay , richest , happiest , most favored ! exclaimed he . 
Do not repent that with so high and pure a feeling , you have rejected the best the earth could offer . 
Yet , had Alymer reached a profounder wisdom , he need not thus have flung away the happiness which would have woven his mortal life of the selfsame texture with the celestial . 
A lone woman is troubled with such dreams and such thoughts that she's afeard of herself sometimes . 
Pray tarry with me this night , dear husband , of all nights in the year . 
My love and my Faith , replied young Goodman Brown , of all nights in the year , this one night must I tarry away from thee . 
My journey , as thou callest it , forth and back again , must needs be done 'twixt now and sunrise . 
Amen ! cried Goodman Brown . 
Say thy prayers , dear Faith , and go to bed at dusk , and no harm will come to thee . 
Poor little Faith ! thought he , for his heart smote him . 
What a wretch am I to leave her on such an errand ! She talks of dreams , too . 
Methought as she spoke there was trouble in her face , as if a dream had warned her what work is to be done tonight . 
But no , no 't would kill her to think it . 
Well , she's a blessed angel on earth and after this one night I'll cling to her skirts and follow her to heaven . 
With this excellent resolve for the future , Goodman Brown felt himself justified in making more haste on his present evil purpose . 
He had taken a dreary road , darkened by all the gloomiest trees of the forest , which barely stood aside to let the narrow path creep through , and closed immediately behind . 
He arose at Goodman Brown's approach and walked onward side by side with him . 
You are late , Goodman Brown , said he . 
The clock of the Old South was striking as I came through Boston , and that is full fifteen minutes agone . 
Faith kept me back a while , replied the young man , with a tremor in his voice , caused by the sudden appearance of his companion , though not wholly unexpected . 
It was now deep dusk in the forest , and deepest in that part of it where these two were journeying . 
Still they might have been taken for father and son . 
This , of course , must have been an ocular deception , assisted by the uncertain light . 
Come , Goodman Brown , cried his fellow traveller , this is a dull pace for the beginning of a journey . 
Take my staff , if you are so soon weary . 
Friend , said the other , exchanging his slow pace for a full stop , having kept covenant by meeting thee here , it is my purpose now to return whence I came . 
I have scruples touching the matter thou wot'st of . 
Sayest thou so ? replied he of the serpent , smiling apart . 
Let us walk on , nevertheless , reasoning as we go and if I convince thee not thou shalt turn back . 
We are but a little way in the forest yet . 
Too far ! too far ! exclaimed the goodman , unconsciously resuming his walk . 
My father never went into the woods on such an errand , nor his father before him . 
Well said , Goodman Brown ! I have been as well acquainted with your family as with ever a one among the Puritans and that's no trifle to say . 
They were my good friends , both and many a pleasant walk have we had along this path , and returned merrily after midnight . 
I would fain be friends with you for their sake . 
We are a people of prayer , and good works to boot , and abide no such wickedness . 
Wickedness or not , said the traveller with the twisted staff , I have a very general acquaintance here in New England . 
The governor and I , too But these are state secrets . 
Can this be so ? cried Goodman Brown , with a stare of amazement at his undisturbed companion . 
Howbeit , I have nothing to do with the governor and council they have their own ways , and are no rule for a simple husbandman like me . 
Well , then , to end the matter at once , said Goodman Brown , considerably nettled , there is my wife , Faith . 
It would break her dear little heart and I'd rather break my own . 
Nay , if that be the case , answered the other , e'en go thy ways , Goodman Brown . 
I would not for twenty old women like the one hobbling before us that Faith should come to any harm . 
A marvel , truly , that Goody Cloyse should be so far in the wilderness at nightfall , said he . 
But with your leave , friend , I shall take a cut through the woods until we have left this Christian woman behind . 
Being a stranger to you , she might ask whom I was consorting with and whither I was going . 
Be it so , said his fellow traveller . 
Betake you to the woods , and let me keep the path . 
Accordingly the young man turned aside , but took care to watch his companion , who advanced softly along the road until he had come within a staff's length of the old dame . 
She , meanwhile , was making the best of her way , with singular speed for so aged a woman , and mumbling some indistinct words a prayer , doubtless as she went . 
The traveller put forth his staff and touched her withered neck with what seemed the serpent's tail . 
The devil ! screamed the pious old lady . 
Then Goody Cloyse knows her old friend ? observed the traveller , confronting her and leaning on his writhing stick . 
Ah , forsooth , and is it your worship indeed ? cried the good dame . 
Yea , truly is it , and in the very image of my old gossip , Goodman Brown , the grandfather of the silly fellow that now is . 
Ah , your worship knows the recipe , cried the old lady , cackling aloud . 
But now your good worship will lend me your arm , and we shall be there in a twinkling . 
That can hardly be , answered her friend . 
I may not spare you my arm , Goody Cloyse but here is my staff , if you will . 
Of this fact , however , Goodman Brown could not take cognizance . 
That old woman taught me my catechism , said the young man and there was a world of meaning in this simple comment . 
The moment his fingers touched them they became strangely withered and dried up as with a week's sunshine . 
Friend , said he , stubbornly , my mind is made up . 
Not another step will I budge on this errand . 
Sit here and rest yourself a while and when you feel like moving again , there is my staff to help you along . 
Without more words , he threw his companion the maple stick , and was as speedily out of sight as if he had vanished into the deepening gloom . 
On came the hoof tramps and the voices of the riders , two grave old voices , conversing soberly as they drew near . 
Goodman Brown alternately crouched and stood on tiptoe , pulling aside the branches and thrusting forth his head as far as he durst without discerning so much as a shadow . 
While yet within hearing , one of the riders stopped to pluck a switch . 
Of the two , reverend sir , said the voice like the deacon's , I had rather miss an ordination dinner than to night's meeting . 
Moreover , there is a goodly young woman to be taken into communion . 
Mighty well , Deacon Gookin ! replied the solemn old tones of the minister . 
Spur up , or we shall be late . 
Nothing can be done , you know , until I get on the ground . 
The hoofs clattered again and the voices , talking so strangely in the empty air , passed on through the forest , where no church had ever been gathered or solitary Christian prayed . 
He looked up to the sky , doubting whether there really was a heaven above him . 
Yet there was the blue arch , and the stars brightening in it . 
With heaven above and Faith below , I will yet stand firm against the devil ! cried Goodman Brown . 
The blue sky was still visible , except directly overhead , where this black mass of cloud was sweeping swiftly northward . 
Aloft in the air , as if from the depths of the cloud , came a confused and doubtful sound of voices . 
The next moment , so indistinct were the sounds , he doubted whether he had heard aught but the murmur of the old forest , whispering without a wind . 
The cry of grief , rage , and terror was yet piercing the night , when the unhappy husband held his breath for a response . 
But something fluttered lightly down through the air and caught on the branch of a tree . 
The young man seized it , and beheld a pink ribbon . 
My Faith is gone ! cried he , after one stupefied moment . 
There is no good on earth and sin is but a name . 
Come , devil for to thee is this world given . 
But he was himself the chief horror of the scene , and shrank not from its other horrors . 
Ha ! ha ! ha ! roared Goodman Brown when the wind laughed at him . 
Let us hear which will laugh loudest . 
Think not to frighten me with your deviltry . 
Come witch , come wizard , come Indian powwow , come devil himself , and here comes Goodman Brown . 
You may as well fear him as he fear you . 
In truth , all through the haunted forest there could be nothing more frightful than the figure of Goodman Brown . 
The fiend in his own shape is less hideous than when he rages in the breast of man . 
He knew the tune it was a familiar one in the choir of the village meeting house . 
The verse died heavily away , and was lengthened by a chorus , not of human voices , but of all the sounds of the benighted wilderness pealing in awful harmony together . 
Goodman Brown cried out , and his cry was lost to his own ear by its unison with the cry of the desert . 
In the interval of silence he stole forward until the light glared full upon his eyes . 
The mass of foliage that had overgrown the summit of the rock was all on fire , blazing high into the night and fitfully illuminating the whole field . 
Each pendent twig and leafy festoon was in a blaze . 
A grave and dark clad company , quoth Goodman Brown . 
In truth they were such . 
Some affirm that the lady of the governor was there . 
Either the sudden gleams of light flashing over the obscure field bedazzled Goodman Brown , or he recognized a score of the church members of Salem village famous for their especial sanctity . 
Good old Deacon Gookin had arrived , and waited at the skirts of that venerable saint , his revered pastor . 
It was strange to see that the good shrank not from the wicked , nor were the sinners abashed by the saints . 
Scattered also among their pale faced enemies were the Indian priests , or powwows , who had often scared their native forest with more hideous incantations than any known to English witchcraft . 
But where is Faith ? thought Goodman Brown and , as hope came into his heart , he trembled . 
Unfathomable to mere mortals is the lore of fiends . 
The four blazing pines threw up a loftier flame , and obscurely discovered shapes and visages of horror on the smoke wreaths above the impious assembly . 
At the same moment the fire on the rock shot redly forth and formed a glowing arch above its base , where now appeared a figure . 
With reverence be it spoken , the figure bore no slight similitude , both in garb and manner , to some grave divine of the New England churches . 
Bring forth the converts ! cried a voice that echoed through the field and rolled into the forest . 
A rampant hag was she . 
And there stood the proselytes beneath the canopy of fire . 
Welcome , my children , said the dark figure , to the communion of your race . 
Ye have found thus young your nature and your destiny . 
There , resumed the sable form , are all whom ye have reverenced from youth . 
Ye deemed them holier than yourselves , and shrank from your own sin , contrasting it with their lives of righteousness and prayerful aspirations heavenward . 
Yet here are they all in my worshipping assembly . 
And now , my children , look upon each other . 
They did so and , by the blaze of the hell kindled torches , the wretched man beheld his Faith , and the wife her husband , trembling before that unhallowed altar . 
Depending upon one another's hearts , ye had still hoped that virtue were not all a dream . 
Evil is the nature of mankind . 
Evil must be your only happiness . 
Welcome again , my children , to the communion of your race . 
Welcome , repeated the fiend worshippers , in one cry of despair and triumph . 
And there they stood , the only pair , as it seemed , who were yet hesitating on the verge of wickedness in this dark world . 
A basin was hollowed , naturally , in the rock . 
The husband cast one look at his pale wife , and Faith at him . 
Whether Faith obeyed he knew not . 
Hardly had he spoken when he found himself amid calm night and solitude , listening to a roar of the wind which died heavily away through the forest . 
He staggered against the rock , and felt it chill and damp while a hanging twig , that had been all on fire , besprinkled his cheek with the coldest dew . 
The next morning young Goodman Brown came slowly into the street of Salem village , staring around him like a bewildered man . 
He shrank from the venerable saint as if to avoid an anathema . 
Old Deacon Gookin was at domestic worship , and the holy words of his prayer were heard through the open window . 
What God doth the wizard pray to ? quoth Goodman Brown . 
Goody Cloyse , that excellent old Christian , stood in the early sunshine at her own lattice , catechizing a little girl who had brought her a pint of morning's milk . 
Goodman Brown snatched away the child as from the grasp of the fiend himself . 
But Goodman Brown looked sternly and sadly into her face , and passed on without a greeting . 
A stern , a sad , a darkly meditative , a distrustful , if not a desperate man did he become from the night of that fearful dream . 
RAPPACCINI'S DAUGHTER From the Writings of Aubepine . 
and the great body of pen and ink men who address the intellect and sympathies of the multitude . 
His fictions are sometimes historical , sometimes of the present day , and sometimes , so far as can be discovered , have little or no reference either to time or space . 
His first appearance was by a collection of stories in a long series of volumes entitled Contes deux fois racontees . 
are as follows Le Voyage Celeste a Chemin de Fer , tom . 
, Le nouveau Pere Adam et la nouvelle Mere Eve , tom . 
, Roderic ou le Serpent a l'estomac , tom . 
, Le Culte du Feu , a folio volume of ponderous research into the religion and ritual of the old Persian Ghebers , published in La Soiree du Chateau en Espagne , tom . 
, vo , and L'Artiste du Beau ou le Papillon Mecanique , tom . 
The ensuing tale is a translation of his Beatrice ou la Belle Empoisonneuse , recently published in La Revue Anti Aristocratique . 
This journal , edited by the Comte de Bearhaven , has for some years past led the defence of liberal principles and popular rights with a faithfulness and ability worthy of all praise . 
A young man , named Giovanni Guasconti , came , very long ago , from the more southern region of Italy , to pursue his studies at the University of Padua . 
Guasconti mechanically did as the old woman advised , but could not quite agree with her that the Paduan sunshine was as cheerful as that of southern Italy . 
Does this garden belong to the house ? asked Giovanni . 
Heaven forbid , signor , unless it were fruitful of better pot herbs than any that grow there now , answered old Lisabetta . 
No that garden is cultivated by the own hands of Signor Giacomo Rappaccini , the famous doctor , who , I warrant him , has been heard of as far as Naples . 
It is said that he distils these plants into medicines that are as potent as a charm . 
Oftentimes you may see the signor doctor at work , and perchance the signora , his daughter , too , gathering the strange flowers that grow in the garden . 
From its appearance , he judged it to be one of those botanic gardens which were of earlier date in Padua than elsewhere in Italy or in the world . 
The water , however , continued to gush and sparkle into the sunbeams as cheerfully as ever . 
While Giovanni stood at the window he heard a rustling behind a screen of leaves , and became aware that a person was at work in the garden . 
Nevertheless , in spite of this deep intelligence on his part , there was no approach to intimacy between himself and these vegetable existences . 
Nor were these his only armor . 
Are you in the garden ? Yes , Beatrice , answered the gardener , and I need your help . 
As Beatrice came down the garden path , it was observable that she handled and inhaled the odor of several of the plants which her father had most sedulously avoided . 
Here , Beatrice , said the latter , see how many needful offices require to be done to our chief treasure . 
Yet , shattered as I am , my life might pay the penalty of approaching it so closely as circumstances demand . 
Henceforth , I fear , this plant must be consigned to your sole charge . 
And gladly will I undertake it , cried again the rich tones of the young lady , as she bent towards the magnificent plant and opened her arms as if to embrace it . 
Rappaccini had finished his labors in the garden , or that his watchful eye had caught the stranger's face , he now took his daughter's arm and retired . 
Flower and maiden were different , and yet the same , and fraught with some strange peril in either shape . 
Giovanni's first movement , on starting from sleep , was to throw open the window and gaze down into the garden which his dreams had made so fertile of mysteries . 
The young man rejoiced that , in the heart of the barren city , he had the privilege of overlooking this spot of lovely and luxuriant vegetation . 
It would serve , he said to himself , as a symbolic language to keep him in communion with Nature . 
Neither the sickly and thoughtworn Dr . 
The professor was an elderly personage , apparently of genial nature , and habits that might almost be called jovial . 
He kept the young man to dinner , and made himself very agreeable by the freedom and liveliness of his conversation , especially when warmed by a flask or two of Tuscan wine . 
Giovanni , conceiving that men of science , inhabitants of the same city , must needs be on familiar terms with one another , took an opportunity to mention the name of Dr . 
But the professor did not respond with so much cordiality as he had anticipated . 
The truth is , our worshipful Dr . 
Rappaccini has as much science as any member of the faculty with perhaps one single exception in Padua , or all Italy but there are certain grave objections to his professional character . 
And what are they ? asked the young man . 
Has my friend Giovanni any disease of body or heart , that he is so inquisitive about physicians ? said the professor , with a smile . 
His patients are interesting to him only as subjects for some new experiment . 
Methinks he is an awful man indeed , remarked Guasconti , mentally recalling the cold and purely intellectual aspect of Rappaccini . 
It is his theory that all medicinal virtues are comprised within those substances which we term vegetable poisons . 
That the signor doctor does less mischief than might be expected with such dangerous substances is undeniable . 
The youth might have taken Baglioni's opinions with many grains of allowance had he known that there was a professional warfare of long continuance between him and Dr . 
Rappaccini , in which the latter was generally thought to have gained the advantage . 
If the reader be inclined to judge for himself , we refer him to certain black letter tracts on both sides , preserved in the medical department of the University of Padua . 
Aha ! cried the professor , with a laugh . 
So now our friend Giovanni's secret is out . 
You have heard of this daughter , whom all the young men in Padua are wild about , though not half a dozen have ever had the good hap to see her face . 
Perchance her father destines her for mine ! Other absurd rumors there be , not worth talking about or listening to . 
So now , Signor Giovanni , drink off your glass of lachryma . 
Guasconti returned to his lodgings somewhat heated with the wine he had quaffed , and which caused his brain to swim with strange fantasies in reference to Dr . 
Rappaccini and the beautiful Beatrice . 
On his way , happening to pass by a florist's , he bought a fresh bouquet of flowers . 
All beneath his eye was a solitude . 
The strange plants were basking in the sunshine , and now and then nodding gently to one another , as if in acknowledgment of sympathy and kindred . 
At first , as we have said , the garden was a solitude . 
And give me this flower of thine , which I separate with gentlest fingers from the stem and place it close beside my heart . 
With these words the beautiful daughter of Rappaccini plucked one of the richest blossoms of the shrub , and was about to fasten it in her bosom . 
But now , unless Giovanni's draughts of wine had bewildered his senses , a singular incident occurred . 
A small orange colored reptile , of the lizard or chameleon species , chanced to be creeping along the path , just at the feet of Beatrice . 
For an instant the reptile contorted itself violently , and then lay motionless in the sunshine . 
Beatrice observed this remarkable phenomenon and crossed herself , sadly , but without surprise nor did she therefore hesitate to arrange the fatal flower in her bosom . 
But Giovanni , out of the shadow of his window , bent forward and shrank back , and murmured and trembled . 
Am I awake ? Have I my senses ? said he to himself . 
Rappaccini's shrubs had lured it from afar . 
Without alighting on the flowers , this winged brightness seemed to be attracted by Beatrice , and lingered in the air and fluttered about her head . 
Now , here it could not be but that Giovanni Guasconti's eyes deceived him . 
Again Beatrice crossed herself and sighed heavily as she bent over the dead insect . 
An impulsive movement of Giovanni drew her eyes to the window . 
Scarcely knowing what he did , Giovanni threw down the bouquet which he had hitherto held in his hand . 
Signora , said he , there are pure and healthful flowers . 
Wear them for the sake of Giovanni Guasconti . 
I accept your gift , and would fain recompense it with this precious purple flower but if I toss it into the air it will not reach you . 
So Signor Guasconti must even content himself with my thanks . 
It was an idle thought there could be no possibility of distinguishing a faded flower from a fresh one at so great a distance . 
For many days after this incident the young man avoided the window that looked into Dr . 
Rappaccini's garden , as if something ugly and monstrous would have blasted his eyesight had he been betrayed into a glance . 
He felt conscious of having put himself , to a certain extent , within the influence of an unintelligible power by the communication which he had opened with Beatrice . 
Blessed are all simple emotions , be they dark or bright ! It is the lurid intermixture of the two that produces the illuminating blaze of the infernal regions . 
One day he found himself arrested his arm was seized by a portly personage , who had turned back on recognizing the young man and expended much breath in overtaking him . 
Signor Giovanni ! Stay , my young friend ! cried he . 
Have you forgotten me ? That might well be the case if I were as much altered as yourself . 
It was Baglioni , whom Giovanni had avoided ever since their first meeting , from a doubt that the professor's sagacity would look too deeply into his secrets . 
Endeavoring to recover himself , he stared forth wildly from his inner world into the outer one and spoke like a man in a dream . 
Yes I am Giovanni Guasconti . 
You are Professor Pietro Baglioni . 
Now let me pass ! Not yet , not yet , Signor Giovanni Guasconti , said the professor , smiling , but at the same time scrutinizing the youth with an earnest glance . 
Speedily , then , most worshipful professor , speedily , said Giovanni , with feverish impatience . 
Nevertheless , there was a peculiar quietness in the look , as if taking merely a speculative , not a human interest , in the young man . 
Rappaccini ! whispered the professor when the stranger had passed . 
Has he ever seen your face before ? Not that I know , answered Giovanni , starting at the name . 
He HAS seen you ! he must have seen you ! said Baglioni , hastily . 
For some purpose or other , this man of science is making a study of you . 
Signor Giovanni , I will stake my life upon it , you are the subject of one of Rappaccini's experiments ! Will you make a fool of me ? cried Giovanni , passionately . 
THAT , signor professor , were an untoward experiment . 
Patience ! patience ! replied the imperturbable professor . 
I tell thee , my poor Giovanni , that Rappaccini has a scientific interest in thee . 
He looked after the young man intently and shook his head . 
This must not be , said Baglioni to himself . 
The youth is the son of my old friend , and shall not come to any harm from which the arcana of medical science can preserve him . 
This daughter of his ! It shall be looked to . 
He turned his eyes full upon the withered face that was puckering itself into a smile , but seemed to behold it not . 
The old dame , therefore , laid her grasp upon his cloak . 
A private entrance into Dr . 
Rappaccini's garden ? Hush ! hush ! not so loud ! whispered Lisabetta , putting her hand over his mouth . 
Yes into the worshipful doctor's garden , where you may see all his fine shrubbery . 
Many a young man in Padua would give gold to be admitted among those flowers . 
Giovanni put a piece of gold into her hand . 
Show me the way , said he . 
But such a suspicion , though it disturbed Giovanni , was inadequate to restrain him . 
The instant that he was aware of the possibility of approaching Beatrice , it seemed an absolute necessity of his existence to do so . 
He paused , hesitated , turned half about , but again went on . 
Passion will choose his own time to rush upon the scene , and lingers sluggishly behind when an appropriate adjustment of events would seem to summon his appearance . 
So was it now with Giovanni . 
But now there was a singular and untimely equanimity within his breast . 
He threw a glance around the garden to discover if Beatrice or her father were present , and , perceiving that he was alone , began a critical observation of the plants . 
The aspect of one and all of them dissatisfied him their gorgeousness seemed fierce , passionate , and even unnatural . 
In fine , Giovanni recognized but two or three plants in the collection , and those of a kind that he well knew to be poisonous . 
While busy with these contemplations he heard the rustling of a silken garment , and , turning , beheld Beatrice emerging from beneath the sculptured portal . 
Rappaccini or his daughter but Beatrice's manner placed him at his ease , though leaving him still in doubt by what agency he had gained admittance . 
She came lightly along the path and met him near the broken fountain . 
There was surprise in her face , but brightened by a simple and kind expression of pleasure . 
You are a connoisseur in flowers , signor , said Beatrice , with a smile , alluding to the bouquet which he had flung her from the window . 
It is no marvel , therefore , if the sight of my father's rare collection has tempted you to take a nearer view . 
And yourself , lady , observed Giovanni , if fame says true , you likewise are deeply skilled in the virtues indicated by these rich blossoms and these spicy perfumes . 
Would you deign to be my instructress , I should prove an apter scholar than if taught by Signor Rappaccini himself . 
Are there such idle rumors ? asked Beatrice , with the music of a pleasant laugh . 
There are many flowers here , and those not the least brilliant , that shock and offend me when they meet my eye . 
But pray , signor , do not believe these stories about my science . 
Believe nothing of me save what you see with your own eyes . 
And must I believe all that I have seen with my own eyes ? asked Giovanni , pointedly , while the recollection of former scenes made him shrink . 
No , signora you demand too little of me . 
Bid me believe nothing save what comes from your own lips . 
It would appear that Beatrice understood him . 
There came a deep flush to her cheek but she looked full into Giovanni's eyes , and responded to his gaze of uneasy suspicion with a queenlike haughtiness . 
I do so bid you , signor , she replied . 
Forget whatever you may have fancied in regard to me . 
If true to the outward senses , still it may be false in its essence but the words of Beatrice Rappaccini's lips are true from the depths of the heart outward . 
It might be the odor of the flowers . 
Evidently her experience of life had been confined within the limits of that garden . 
There came thoughts , too , from a deep source , and fantasies of a gemlike brilliancy , as if diamonds and rubies sparkled upward among the bubbles of the fountain . 
But such reflections were only momentary the effect of her character was too real not to make itself familiar at once . 
A fragrance was diffused from it which Giovanni recognized as identical with that which he had attributed to Beatrice's breath , but incomparably more powerful . 
As her eyes fell upon it , Giovanni beheld her press her hand to her bosom as if her heart were throbbing suddenly and painfully . 
For the first time in my life , murmured she , addressing the shrub , I had forgotten thee . 
Permit me now to pluck it as a memorial of this interview . 
He made a step towards the shrub with extended hand but Beatrice darted forward , uttering a shriek that went through his heart like a dagger . 
She caught his hand and drew it back with the whole force of her slender figure . 
Giovanni felt her touch thrilling through his fibres . 
Touch it not ! exclaimed she , in a voice of agony . 
Not for thy life ! It is fatal ! Then , hiding her face , she fled from him and vanished beneath the sculptured portal . 
As Giovanni followed her with his eyes , he beheld the emaciated figure and pale intelligence of Dr . 
Rappaccini , who had been watching the scene , he knew not how long , within the shadow of the entrance . 
Thus did he spend the night , nor fell asleep until the dawn had begun to awake the slumbering flowers in Dr . 
Rappaccini's garden , whither Giovanni's dreams doubtless led him . 
Up rose the sun in his due season , and , flinging his beams upon the young man's eyelids , awoke him to a sense of pain . 
On the back of that hand there was now a purple print like that of four small fingers , and the likeness of a slender thumb upon his wrist . 
After the first interview , a second was in the inevitable course of what we call fate . 
Nor was it otherwise with the daughter of Rappaccini . 
She watched for the youth's appearance , and flew to his side with confidence as unreserved as if they had been playmates from early infancy as if they were such playmates still . 
But , with all this intimate familiarity , there was still a reserve in Beatrice's demeanor , so rigidly and invariably sustained that the idea of infringing it scarcely occurred to his imagination . 
He had never touched one of the gleaming ringlets of her hair her garment so marked was the physical barrier between them had never been waved against him by a breeze . 
A considerable time had now passed since Giovanni's last meeting with Baglioni . 
One morning , however , he was disagreeably surprised by a visit from the professor , whom he had scarcely thought of for whole weeks , and would willingly have forgotten still longer . 
Given up as he had long been to a pervading excitement , he could tolerate no companions except upon condition of their perfect sympathy with his present state of feeling . 
Such sympathy was not to be expected from Professor Baglioni . 
The visitor chatted carelessly for a few moments about the gossip of the city and the university , and then took up another topic . 
I have been reading an old classic author lately , said he , and met with a story that strangely interested me . 
Possibly you may remember it . 
It is of an Indian prince , who sent a beautiful woman as a present to Alexander the Great . 
She was as lovely as the dawn and gorgeous as the sunset but what especially distinguished her was a certain rich perfume in her breath richer than a garden of Persian roses . 
Poison was her element of life . 
With that rich perfume of her breath she blasted the very air . 
Her love would have been poison her embrace death . 
Is not this a marvellous tale ? A childish fable , answered Giovanni , nervously starting from his chair . 
I marvel how your worship finds time to read such nonsense among your graver studies . 
Were I to breathe it long , methinks it would make me ill . 
It is like the breath of a flower but I see no flowers in the chamber . 
Nor are there any , replied Giovanni , who had turned pale as the professor spoke nor , I think , is there any fragrance except in your worship's imagination . 
Odors , being a sort of element combined of the sensual and the spiritual , are apt to deceive us in this manner . 
The recollection of a perfume , the bare idea of it , may easily be mistaken for a present reality . 
Our worshipful friend Rappaccini , as I have heard , tinctures his medicaments with odors richer than those of Araby . 
But he strove hard to quell them and to respond to Baglioni with a true lover's perfect faith . 
Signor professor , said he , you were my father's friend perchance , too , it is your purpose to act a friendly part towards his son . 
I would fain feel nothing towards you save respect and deference but I pray you to observe , signor , that there is one subject on which we must not speak . 
You know not the Signora Beatrice . 
You cannot , therefore , estimate the wrong the blasphemy , I may even say that is offered to her character by a light or injurious word . 
Giovanni ! my poor Giovanni ! answered the professor , with a calm expression of pity , I know this wretched girl far better than yourself . 
You shall hear the truth in respect to the poisoner Rappaccini and his poisonous daughter yes , poisonous as she is beautiful . 
Listen for , even should you do violence to my gray hairs , it shall not silence me . 
That old fable of the Indian woman has become a truth by the deep and deadly science of Rappaccini and in the person of the lovely Beatrice . 
What , then , will be your fate ? Beyond a doubt you are selected as the material of some new experiment . 
Perhaps the result is to be death perhaps a fate more awful still . 
Rappaccini , with what he calls the interest of science before his eyes , will hesitate at nothing . 
It is a dream , muttered Giovanni to himself surely it is a dream . 
But , resumed the professor , be of good cheer , son of my friend . 
It is not yet too late for the rescue . 
Possibly we may even succeed in bringing back this miserable child within the limits of ordinary nature , from which her father's madness has estranged her . 
Behold this little silver vase ! It was wrought by the hands of the renowned Benvenuto Cellini , and is well worthy to be a love gift to the fairest dame in Italy . 
But its contents are invaluable . 
One little sip of this antidote would have rendered the most virulent poisons of the Borgias innocuous . 
Doubt not that it will be as efficacious against those of Rappaccini . 
Bestow the vase , and the precious liquid within it , on your Beatrice , and hopefully await the result . 
Baglioni laid a small , exquisitely wrought silver vial on the table and withdrew , leaving what he had said to produce its effect upon the young man's mind . 
There is something truer and more real than what we can see with the eyes and touch with the finger . 
On such better evidence had Giovanni founded his confidence in Beatrice , though rather by the necessary force of her high attributes than by any deep and generous faith on his part . 
Not that he gave her up he did but distrust . 
With this idea he hastened to the florist's and purchased a bouquet that was still gemmed with the morning dew drops . 
It was now the customary hour of his daily interview with Beatrice . 
At least , thought he , her poison has not yet insinuated itself into my system . 
I am no flower to perish in her grasp . 
With that thought he turned his eyes on the bouquet , which he had never once laid aside from his hand . 
A thrill of indefinable horror shot through his frame on perceiving that those dewy flowers were already beginning to droop they wore the aspect of things that had been fresh and lovely yesterday . 
Giovanni grew white as marble , and stood motionless before the mirror , staring at his own reflection there as at the likeness of something frightful . 
He remembered Baglioni's remark about the fragrance that seemed to pervade the chamber . 
It must have been the poison in his breath ! Then he shuddered shuddered at himself . 
Giovanni bent towards the insect , and emitted a deep , long breath . 
The spider suddenly ceased its toil the web vibrated with a tremor originating in the body of the small artisan . 
Again Giovanni sent forth a breath , deeper , longer , and imbued with a venomous feeling out of his heart he knew not whether he were wicked , or only desperate . 
The spider made a convulsive gripe with his limbs and hung dead across the window . 
Accursed ! accursed ! muttered Giovanni , addressing himself . 
Incapable as he was of such high faith , still her presence had not utterly lost its magic . 
Giovanni's rage was quelled into an aspect of sullen insensibility . 
Beatrice , with a quick spiritual sense , immediately felt that there was a gulf of blackness between them which neither he nor she could pass . 
Giovanni was affrighted at the eager enjoyment the appetite , as it were with which he found himself inhaling the fragrance of the flowers . 
Beatrice , asked he , abruptly , whence came this shrub ? My father created it , answered she , with simplicity . 
Created it ! created it ! repeated Giovanni . 
Approach it not ! continued she , observing with terror that Giovanni was drawing nearer to the shrub . 
It has qualities that you little dream of . 
But I , dearest Giovanni , I grew up and blossomed with the plant and was nourished with its breath . 
It was my sister , and I loved it with a human affection for , alas ! hast thou not suspected it ? there was an awful doom . 
Here Giovanni frowned so darkly upon her that Beatrice paused and trembled . 
But her faith in his tenderness reassured her , and made her blush that she had doubted for an instant . 
There was an awful doom , she continued , the effect of my father's fatal love of science , which estranged me from all society of my kind . 
Until Heaven sent thee , dearest Giovanni , oh , how lonely was thy poor Beatrice ! Was it a hard doom ? asked Giovanni , fixing his eyes upon her . 
Only of late have I known how hard it was , answered she , tenderly . 
Oh , yes but my heart was torpid , and therefore quiet . 
Giovanni's rage broke forth from his sullen gloom like a lightning flash out of a dark cloud . 
Accursed one ! cried he , with venomous scorn and anger . 
The force of his words had not found its way into her mind she was merely thunderstruck . 
Yes , poisonous thing ! repeated Giovanni , beside himself with passion . 
Holy Virgin , pity me , a poor heart broken child ! Thou , dost thou pray ? cried Giovanni , still with the same fiendish scorn . 
Thy very prayers , as they come from thy lips , taint the atmosphere with death . 
Behold ! this power have I gained from the pure daughter of Rappaccini . 
There was a swarm of summer insects flitting through the air in search of the food promised by the flower odors of the fatal garden . 
They circled round Giovanni's head , and were evidently attracted towards him by the same influence which had drawn them for an instant within the sphere of several of the shrubs . 
He sent forth a breath among them , and smiled bitterly at Beatrice as at least a score of the insects fell dead upon the ground . 
I see it ! I see it ! shrieked Beatrice . 
But my father , he has united us in this fearful sympathy . 
Giovanni's passion had exhausted itself in its outburst from his lips . 
There now came across him a sense , mournful , and not without tenderness , of the intimate and peculiar relationship between Beatrice and himself . 
They stood , as it were , in an utter solitude , which would be made none the less solitary by the densest throng of human life . 
But Giovanni did not know it . 
Behold ! there is a medicine , potent , as a wise physician has assured me , and almost divine in its efficacy . 
It is composed of ingredients the most opposite to those by which thy awful father has brought this calamity upon thee and me . 
It is distilled of blessed herbs . 
She added , with a peculiar emphasis , I will drink but do thou await the result . 
She put Baglioni's antidote to her lips and , at the same moment , the figure of Rappaccini emerged from the portal and came slowly towards the marble fountain . 
Beatrice shuddered nervously , and pressed her hand upon her heart . 
My daughter , said Rappaccini , thou art no longer lonely in the world . 
Pluck one of those precious gems from thy sister shrub and bid thy bridegroom wear it in his bosom . 
It will not harm him now . 
But now it matters not . 
Farewell , Giovanni ! Thy words of hatred are like lead within my heart but they , too , will fall away as I ascend . 
BULLFROG It makes me melancholy to see how like fools some very sensible people act in the matter of choosing wives . 
They perplex their judgments by a most undue attention to little niceties of personal appearance , habits , disposition , and other trifles which concern nobody but the lady herself . 
An unhappy gentleman , resolving to wed nothing short of perfection , keeps his heart and hand till both get so old and withered that no tolerable woman will accept them . 
Now this is the very height of absurdity . 
For my own part I freely confess that , in my bachelorship , I was precisely such an over curious simpleton as I now advise the reader not to be . 
My early habits had gifted me with a feminine sensibility and too exquisite refinement . 
It is not assuming too much to affirm that the ladies themselves were hardly so ladylike as Thomas Bullfrog . 
The same morning that Mrs. Bullfrog and I came together as a unit , we took two seats in the stage coach and began our journey towards my place of business . 
There being no other passengers , we were as much alone and as free to give vent to our raptures as if I had hired a hack for the matrimonial jaunt . 
My bride looked charmingly in a green silk calash and riding habit of pelisse cloth and whenever her red lips parted with a smile , each tooth appeared like an inestimable pearl . 
The gentle eye of Mrs. Bullfrog scarcely rebuked me for the profanation . 
My love , said Mrs. Bullfrog tenderly , you will disarrange my curls . 
Oh , no , my sweet Laura ! replied I , still playing with the glossy ringlet . 
Even your fair hand could not manage a curl more delicately than mine . 
I propose myself the pleasure of doing up your hair in papers every evening at the same time with my own . 
Mr. Bullfrog , repeated she , you must not disarrange my curls . 
This was spoken in a more decided tone than I had happened to hear , until then , from my gentlest of all gentle brides . 
At the same time she put up her hand and took mine prisoner but merely drew it away from the forbidden ringlet , and then immediately released it . 
Such airy diet will sometimes keep them in pretty good flesh for a week together . 
Laying hold of this same little basket , I thrust my hand under the newspaper with which it was carefully covered . 
What's this , my dear ? cried I for the black neck of a bottle had popped out of the basket . 
A bottle of Kalydor , Mr. Bullfrog , said my wife , coolly taking the basket from my hands and replacing it on the front seat . 
There was no possibility of doubting my wife's word but I never knew genuine Kalydor , such as I use for my own complexion , to smell so much like cherry brandy . 
I was about to express my fears that the lotion would injure her skin , when an accident occurred which threatened more than a skin deep injury . 
Our Jehu had carelessly driven over a heap of gravel and fairly capsized the coach , with the wheels in the air and our heels where our heads should have been . 
Like many men's wives , the good lady served her husband as a steppingstone . 
I had scrambled out of the coach and was instinctively settling my cravat , when somebody brushed roughly by me , and I heard a smart thwack upon the coachman's ear . 
Take that , you villain ! cried a strange , hoarse voice . 
Now , who or what fearful apparition was inflicting this punishment on the poor fellow remained an impenetrable mystery to me . 
There being no teeth to modulate the voice , it had a mumbled fierceness , not passionate , but stern , which absolutely made me quiver like calf's foot jelly . 
There would have been a comfort in giving her Christian burial . 
I , also , though a small sized man , went to work like a son of Anak . 
The coachman , too , with the blood still streaming from his nose , tugged and toiled most manfully , dreading , doubtless , that the next blow might break his head . 
And yet , bemauled as the poor fellow had been , he seemed to glance at me with an eye of pity , as if my case were more deplorable than his . 
Why , here we are , all to rights again ! exclaimed a sweet voice behind . 
Thank you for your assistance , gentlemen . 
My dear Mr. Bullfrog , how you perspire ! Do let me wipe your face . 
Don't take this little accident too much to heart , good driver . 
We ought to be thankful that none of our necks are broken . 
We might have spared one neck out of the three , muttered the driver , rubbing his ear and pulling his nose , to ascertain whether he had been cuffed or not . 
How she had happened to disappear , and who had supplied her place , and whence she did now return , were problems too knotty for me to solve . 
That was the one thing certain among a heap of mysteries . 
Nothing remained but to help her into the coach , and plod on , through the journey of the day and the journey of life , as comfortably as we could . 
Yet , unreasonable as it may appear , I confess that my feelings were not altogether so ecstatic as when I first called Mrs. Bullfrog mine . 
I recollected the tale of a fairy , who half the time was a beautiful woman and half the time a hideous monster . 
The paper was two or three years old , but contained an article of several columns , in which I soon grew wonderfully interested . 
It was the report of a trial for breach of promise of marriage , giving the testimony in full , with fervid extracts from both the gentleman's and lady's amatory correspondence . 
The deserted damsel had personally appeared in court , and had borne energetic evidence to her lover's perfidy and the strength of her blighted affections . 
A horrible idea was suggested by the lady's name . 
As I made no reply , she gently took my hands within her own , removed them from my face , and fixed her eyes steadfastly on mine . 
You have discovered , perhaps , some little imperfections in your bride . 
Well , what did you expect ? Women are not angels . 
If they were , they would go to heaven for husbands or , at least , be more difficult in their choice on earth . 
But why conceal those imperfections ? interposed I , tremulously . 
Now , my love , are not you a most unreasonable little man ? said Mrs. Bullfrog , patting me on the cheek . 
Well , what a strange man you are ! Poh ! you are joking . 
But the suit for breach of promise ! groaned I. Ah , and is that the rub ? exclaimed my wife . 
The jury gave me every cent the rascal had and I have kept it all for my dear Bullfrog . 
Then , thou dear woman , cried I , with an overwhelming gush of tenderness , let me fold thee to my heart . 
The basis of matrimonial bliss is secure , and all thy little defects and frailties are forgiven . 
Nay , since the result has been so fortunate , I rejoice at the wrongs which drove thee to this blessed lawsuit . 
It interested me much to learn that by the public spirit of some of the inhabitants a railroad has recently been established between this populous and flourishing town and the Celestial City . 
Having a little time upon my hands , I resolved to gratify a liberal curiosity by making a trip thither . 
Being , moreover , a director of the railroad corporation and one of its largest stockholders , he had it in his power to give me all desirable information respecting that praiseworthy enterprise . 
On both sides lay an extensive quagmire , which could not have been more disagreeable either to sight or smell , had all the kennels of the earth emptied their pollution there . 
This , remarked Mr. Smooth it away , is the famous Slough of Despond a disgrace to all the neighborhood and the greater that it might so easily be converted into firm ground . 
I have understood , said I , that efforts have been made for that purpose from time immemorial . 
Bunyan mentions that above twenty thousand cartloads of wholesome instructions had been thrown in here without effect . 
Very probably ! And what effect could be anticipated from such unsubstantial stuff ? cried Mr. Smooth it away . 
You observe this convenient bridge . 
The whole bog might be filled up with similar matter . 
Nevertheless we got over without accident , and soon found ourselves at the stationhouse . 
Some malicious persons it is true deny the identity of this reputable character with the Evangelist of old times , and even pretend to bring competent evidence of an imposture . 
Whether they will be as readily received at the gate of the Celestial City I decline giving an opinion . 
A large number of passengers were already at the station house awaiting the departure of the cars . 
By the aspect and demeanor of these persons it was easy to judge that the feelings of the community had undergone a very favorable change in reference to the celestial pilgrimage . 
It would have done Bunyan's heart good to see it . 
Among the gentlemen were characters of deserved eminence magistrates , politicians , and men of wealth , by whose example religion could not but be greatly recommended to their meaner brethren . 
In the ladies' apartment , too , I rejoiced to distinguish some of those flowers of fashionable society who are so well fitted to adorn the most elevated circles of the Celestial City . 
Even an infidel would have heard little or nothing to shock his sensibility . 
One great convenience of the new method of going on pilgrimage I must not forget to mention . 
Another thing , likewise , the benevolent reader will be delighted to understand . 
Every good heart must surely exult at so satisfactory an arrangement of an immemorial difficulty . 
He was offered the situation of brakeman but , to tell you the truth , our friend Greatheart has grown preposterously stiff and narrow in his old age . 
He has so often guided pilgrims over the road on foot that he considers it a sin to travel in any other fashion . 
Yonder comes the engineer of the train . 
You will probably recognize him at once . 
And how will Christian rejoice to hear of this happy transformation of his old antagonist ! I promise myself great pleasure in informing him of it when we reach the Celestial City . 
The passengers being all comfortably seated , we now rattled away merrily , accomplishing a greater distance in ten minutes than Christian probably trudged over in a day . 
The preposterous obstinacy of these honest people in persisting to groan and stumble along the difficult pathway rather than take advantage of modern improvements , excited great mirth among our wiser brotherhood . 
We greeted the two pilgrims with many pleasant gibes and a roar of laughter whereupon they gazed at us with such woful and absurdly compassionate visages that our merriment grew tenfold more obstreperous . 
These little practical jokes amused us mightily , and doubtless afforded the pilgrims the gratification of considering themselves martyrs . 
In Bunyan's road book it is mentioned as the Interpreter's House . 
But the footpath still passes his door , and the old gentleman now and then receives a call from some simple traveller , and entertains him with fare as old fashioned as himself . 
Before our talk on this subject came to a conclusion we were rushing by the place where Christian's burden fell from his shoulders at the sight of the Cross . 
It would have been a sad spectacle to see such an assortment of valuable articles tumbling into the sepulchre . 
Young ladies ! cried Mr. Smooth it away , as soon as he could speak for laughing . 
Ah , well , said I , much comforted , then I can very readily dispense with their acquaintance . 
Even while we were speaking the train shot into the entrance of this dreaded Valley . 
Hence , also , is obtained a plentiful supply of fuel for the use of the engines . 
Did you not start , said I , for the Celestial City ? That's a fact , said Mr. Take it easy , carelessly puffing some smoke into my eyes . 
But I heard such bad accounts that I never took pains to climb the hill on which the city stands . 
No business doing , no fun going on , nothing to drink , and no smoking allowed , and a thrumming of church music from morning till night . 
I would not stay in such a place if they offered me house room and living free . 
I hope to see you back again some day soon . 
A pleasant journey to you . 
While he was speaking the bell of the engine rang , and we dashed away after dropping a few passengers , but receiving no new ones . 
Rattling onward through the Valley , we were dazzled with the fiercely gleaming gas lamps , as before . 
I almost thought that they were my own sins that appalled me there . 
The mephitic gases of that region intoxicate the brain . 
Ere we had gone a mile beyond it I could well nigh have taken my oath that this whole gloomy passage was a dream . 
As we rushed by the cavern's mouth we caught a hasty glimpse of him , looking somewhat like an ill proportioned figure , but considerably more like a heap of fog and duskiness . 
He shouted after us , but in so strange a phraseology that we knew not what he meant , nor whether to be encouraged or affrighted . 
Many passengers stop to take their pleasure or make their profit in the Fair , instead of going onward to the Celestial City . 
In justification of this high praise I need only mention the names of the Rev . 
Mr. Shallow deep , the Rev . 
Mr. Stumble at truth , that fine old clerical character the Rev . 
Mr. This today , who expects shortly to resign his pulpit to the Rev . 
Mr. That tomorrow together with the Rev . 
Mr. Bewilderment , the Rev . 
Mr. Clog the spirit , and , last and greatest , the Rev . 
These ingenious methods constitute a sort of machinery , by which thought and study are done to every person's hand without his putting himself to the slightest inconvenience in the matter . 
There is another species of machine for the wholesale manufacture of individual morality . 
It would fill a volume , in an age of pamphlets , were I to record all my observations in this great capital of human business and pleasure . 
Some of the purchasers , I thought , made very foolish bargains . 
There was a sort of stock or scrip , called Conscience , which seemed to be in great demand , and would purchase almost anything . 
Yet as this stock was the only thing of permanent value , whoever parted with it was sure to find himself a loser in the long run . 
Several of the speculations were of a questionable character . 
Occasionally a member of Congress recruited his pocket by the sale of his constituents and I was assured that public officers have often sold their country at very moderate prices . 
Thousands sold their happiness for a whim . 
Gilded chains were in great demand , and purchased with almost any sacrifice . 
A few articles , however , could not be found genuine at Vanity Fair . 
Prince Beelzebub himself took great interest in this sort of traffic , and sometimes condescended to meddle with smaller matters . 
The prince remarked with a smile , that he was a loser by the transaction . 
Day after day , as I walked the streets of Vanity , my manners and deportment became more and more like those of the inhabitants . 
The place began to seem like home the idea of pursuing my travels to the Celestial City was almost obliterated from my mind . 
It prompted him to address me . 
Sir , inquired he , with a sad , yet mild and kindly voice . 
do you call yourself a pilgrim ? Yes , I replied , my right to that appellation is indubitable . 
I am merely a sojourner here in Vanity Fair , being bound to the Celestial City by the new railroad . 
You may travel on it all your lifetime , were you to live thousands of years , and yet never get beyond the limits of Vanity Fair . 
Yea , though you should deem yourself entering the gates of the blessed city , it will be nothing but a miserable delusion . 
Wherefore every man who buys a ticket must lay his account with losing the purchase money , which is the value of his own soul . 
Poh , nonsense ! said Mr. Smooth it away , taking my arm and leading me off , these fellows ought to be indicted for a libel . 
If the law stood as it once did in Vanity Fair we should see them grinning through the iron bars of the prison window . 
Still , I grew anxious to be gone . 
There was one strange thing that troubled me . 
But it was otherwise with me . 
Finally , after a pretty long residence at the Fair , I resumed my journey towards the Celestial City , still with Mr. Smooth it away at my side . 
A little further onward was the spot where Lot's wife had stood forever under the semblance of a pillar of salt . 
Curious travellers have long since carried it away piecemeal . 
The next remarkable object was a large edifice , constructed of moss grown stone , but in a modern and airy style of architecture . 
The engine came to a pause in its vicinity , with the usual tremendous shriek . 
It is one of our stopping places . 
It seems but slightly put together , remarked I , looking at the frail yet ponderous walls . 
I do not envy Mr. Flimsy faith his habitation . 
Some day it will thunder down upon the heads of the occupants . 
We shall escape at all events , said Mr. Smooth it away , for Apollyon is putting on the steam again . 
The road now plunged into a gorge of the Delectable Mountains , and traversed the field where in former ages the blind men wandered and stumbled among the tombs . 
One of these ancient tombstones had been thrust across the track by some malicious person , and gave the train of cars a terrible jolt . 
Far up the rugged side of a mountain I perceived a rusty iron door , half overgrown with bushes and creeping plants , but with smoke issuing from its crevices . 
It is neither more nor less than the door of a cavern which they use as a smoke house for the preparation of mutton hams . 
I awoke , however , as soon as we crossed the borders of the pleasant land of Beulah . 
All the passengers were rubbing their eyes , comparing watches , and congratulating one another on the prospect of arriving so seasonably at the journey's end . 
Once , as we dashed onward like a hurricane , there was a flutter of wings and the bright appearance of an angel in the air , speeding forth on some heavenly mission . 
How amazingly well those men have got on , cried I to Mr. Smoothit away . 
I wish we were secure of as good a reception . 
Never fear , never fear ! answered my friend . 
Come , make haste the ferry boat will be off directly , and in three minutes you will be on the other side of the river . 
No doubt you will find coaches to carry you up to the city gates . 
Looking back to the shore , I was amazed to discern Mr. Smooth it away waving his hand in token of farewell . 
Oh , no ! I have come thus far only for the sake of your pleasant company . 
Good by ! We shall meet again . 
The impudent fiend ! To deny the existence of Tophet , when he felt its fiery tortures raging within his breast . 
Thank Heaven it was a Dream ! THE PROCESSION OF LIFE Life figures itself to me as a festal or funereal procession . 
All of us have our places , and are to move onward under the direction of the Chief Marshal . 
Its members are classified by the merest external circumstances , and thus are more certain to be thrown out of their true positions than if no principle of arrangement were attempted . 
Trades and professions march together with scarcely a more real bond of union . 
Let all who are afflicted with like physical diseases form themselves into ranks . 
Our first attempt at classification is not very successful . 
Some maladies are rich and precious , and only to be acquired by the right of inheritance or purchased with gold . 
In mercy to their toes , let us hope that the march may not be long . 
The Dyspeptics , too , are people of good standing in the world . 
They can afford to flavor all their dishes with indolence , which , in spite of the general opinion , is a sauce more exquisitely piquant than appetite won by exercise . 
Apoplexy is another highly respectable disease . 
Behold here a train of house painters , all afflicted with a peculiar sort of colic . 
Next in place we will marshal those workmen in cutlery , who have breathed a fatal disorder into their lungs with the impalpable dust of steel . 
These are a wretched quaking , short breathed set . 
Consumption points their place in the procession . 
With their sad sisterhood are intermingled many youthful maidens who have sickened in aristocratic mansions , and for whose aid science has unavailingly searched its volumes , and whom breathless love has watched . 
In our ranks the rich maiden and the poor seamstress may walk arm in arm . 
But it is not hard to own that disease is the natural aristocrat . 
All things considered , these are as proper subjects of human pride as any relations of human rank that men can fix upon . 
Ay , this is a reality , before which the conventional distinctions of society melt away like a vapor when we would grasp it with the hand . 
Peer or ploughman , we will muster them pair by pair and shoulder to shoulder . 
Even society , in its most artificial state , consents to this arrangement . 
Other modes of intellect bring together as strange companies . 
Silk gowned professor of languages , give your arm to this sturdy blacksmith , and deem yourself honored by the conjunction , though you behold him grimy from the anvil . 
All varieties of human speech are like his mother tongue to this rare man . 
But we may safely leave these brethren and sisterhood to settle their own congenialities . 
Yet the longer I reflect the less am I satisfied with the idea of forming a separate class of mankind on the basis of high intellectual power . 
At best it is but a higher development of innate gifts common to all . 
But we do not classify for eternity . 
We appeal now to the sacred bond of sorrow , and summon the great multitude who labor under similar afflictions to take their places in the march . 
We will therefore be at some pains to discriminate . 
But the visionary shapes of a long posterity , for whose home this mansion was intended , have faded into nothingness since the death of the founder's only son . 
The sailor boy , who was her sole earthly stay , was washed overboard in a late tempest . 
This couple from the palace and the almshouse are but the types of thousands more who represent the dark tragedy of life and seldom quarrel for the upper parts . 
If pride the influence of the world's false distinctions remain in the heart , then sorrow lacks the earnestness which makes it holy and reverend . 
It loses its reality and becomes a miserable shadow . 
On this ground we have an opportunity to assign over multitudes who would willingly claim places here to other parts of the procession . 
If the mourner have anything dearer than his grief he must seek his true position elsewhere . 
There is no room here . 
Perhaps we may institute a separate class where such unfortunates will naturally fall into the procession . 
Meanwhile let them stand aside and patiently await their time . 
If our trumpeter can borrow a note from the doomsday trumpet blast , let him sound it now . 
In many bosoms it will awaken a still small voice more terrible than its own reverberating uproar . 
The hideous appeal has swept around the globe . 
Come , all ye guilty ones , and rank yourselves in accordance with the brotherhood of crime . 
This , indeed , is an awful summons . 
I almost tremble to look at the strange partnerships that begin to be formed , reluctantly , but by the in vincible necessity of like to like in this part of the procession . 
A forger from the state prison seizes the arm of a distinguished financier . 
Yet he now finds his place . 
Oh no it must be merely the impertinence of those unblushing hussies and we can only wonder how such respectable ladies should have responded to a summons that was not meant for them . 
The foul fiend to whom it properly belongs must relieve us of our loathsome task . 
Let the bond servants of sin pass on . 
But neither man nor woman , in whom good predominates , will smile or sneer , nor bid the Rogues' March be played , in derision of their array . 
Many , however , will be astonished at the fatal impulse that drags them thitherward . 
Nothing is more remarkable than the various deceptions by which guilt conceals itself from the perpetrator's conscience , and oftenest , perhaps , by the splendor of its garments . 
Here the effect of circumstance and accident is done away , and a man finds his rank according to the spirit of his crime , in whatever shape it may have been developed . 
We have called the Evil now let us call the Good . 
Then let the summons be to those whose pervading principle is Love . 
This classification will embrace all the truly good , and none in whose souls there exists not something that may expand itself into a heaven , both of well doing and felicity . 
But here they come , the genuine benefactors of their race . 
And with those whose impulses have guided them to benevolent actions , we will rank others to whom Providence has assigned a different tendency and different powers . 
We have summoned this various multitude and , to the credit of our nature , it is a large one on the principle of Love . 
But it is far otherwise . 
Each sect surrounds its own righteousness with a hedge of thorns . 
Then again , though the heart be large , yet the mind is often of such moderate dimensions as to be exclusively filled up with one idea . 
His scheme must be wrought out by the united strength of the whole world's stock of love , or the world is no longer worthy of a position in the universe . 
For such reasons , strange to say , it is harder to contrive a friendly arrangement of these brethren of love and righteousness , in the procession of life . 
than to unite even the wicked , who , indeed , are chained together by their crimes . 
The fact is too preposterous for tears , too lugubrious for laughter . 
Their own view may be bounded by country , creed , profession , the diversities of individual character but above them all is the breadth of Providence . 
It is desirable to find some comprehensive principle , that shall render our task easier by bringing thousands into the ranks where hitherto we have brought one . 
But here will be another disappointment for we can attempt no more than merely to associate in one fraternity all who are afflicted with the same vague trouble . 
Some great mistake in life is the chief condition of admittance into this class . 
Here are members of the learned professions , whom Providence endowed with special gifts for the plough , the forge , and the wheelbarrow , or for the routine of unintellectual business . 
The latter have lost less than their companions yet more , because they deem it infinite . 
Perchance the two species of unfortunates may comfort one another . 
Here are Quakers with the instinct of battle in them and men of war who should have worn the broad brim . 
All these , therefore , are melancholy laughing stocks . 
Let us see if they can confine themselves within the line of our procession . 
To such men , we give for a companion him whose rare talents , which perhaps require a Revolution for their exercise , are buried in the tomb of sluggish circumstances . 
Shall we bid the trumpet sound again ? It is hardly worth the while . 
The remainder , if any , may connect themselves with whatever rank of the procession they shall find best adapted to their tastes and consciences . 
The worst possible fate would be to remain behind , shivering in the solitude of time , while all the world is on the move towards eternity . 
Our attempt to classify society is now complete . 
Our task is done ! Now let the grand procession move ! Yet pause a while ! We had forgotten the Chief Marshal . 
Hark ! That world wide swell of solemn music , with the clang of a mighty bell breaking forth through its regulated uproar , announces his approach . 
He knows not , more than we , our destined goal . 
Whence the coal came , and how brought thither by an invisible hand , I have never been able to discover . 
Good ! quoth Mother Rigby , with a nod of her head . 
Thank ye , Dickon ! And now for making this scarecrow . 
Be within call , Dickon , in case I need you again . 
in order to set about making a scarecrow , which she intended to put in the middle of her corn patch . 
was one of the most cunning and potent witches in New England , and might , with very little trouble , have made a scarecrow ugly enough to frighten the minister himself . 
Besides , there is no use in scaring the little children for a mile roundabout , though 't is true I'm a witch . 
It was settled , therefore , in her own mind , that the scarecrow should represent a fine gentleman of the period , so far as the materials at hand would allow . 
Perhaps it may be as well to enumerate the chief of the articles that went to the composition of this figure . 
As for its legs , the right was a hoe handle , and the left an undistinguished and miscellaneous stick from the woodpile . 
Its lungs , stomach , and other affairs of that kind were nothing better than a meal bag stuffed with straw . 
It was really quite a respectable face . 
I've seen worse ones on human shoulders , at any rate , said Mother Rigby . 
And many a fine gentleman has a pumpkin head , as well as my scarecrow . 
But the clothes , in this case , were to be the making of the man . 
I've made many a puppet since I've been a witch , but methinks this is the finest of them all . 
'Tis almost too good for a scarecrow . 
And , by the by , I'll just fill a fresh pipe of tobacco and then take him out to the corn patch . 
While filling her pipe the old woman continued to gaze with almost motherly affection at the figure in the corner . 
The more Mother Rigby looked the better she was pleased . 
She drew in a long whiff and puffed it forth again into the bar of morning sunshine which struggled through the one dusty pane of her cottage window . 
Mother Rigby always liked to flavor her pipe with a coal of fire from the particular chimney corner whence this had been brought . 
He's capable of better things . 
He'll meet plenty of his brethren at every street corner ! continued she . 
Puff , darling , puff ! said she . 
It was the very feeblest of whiffs , to be sure but it was followed by another and another , each more decided than the preceding one . 
Puff away , my pet ! puff away , my pretty one ! Mother Rigby kept repeating , with her pleasantest smile . 
It is the breath of life to ye and that you may take my word for . 
Beyond all question the pipe was bewitched . 
The figure , after a few doubtful attempts at length blew forth a volley of smoke extending all the way from the obscure corner into the bar of sunshine . 
There it eddied and melted away among the motes of dust . 
It seemed a convulsive effort for the two or three next whiffs were fainter , although the coal still glowed and threw a gleam over the scarecrow's visage . 
The old witch clapped her skinny hands together , and smiled encouragingly upon her handiwork . 
She saw that the charm worked well . 
Well puffed , my pretty lad ! still cried old Mother Rigby . 
Come , another good stout whiff , and let it be with might and main . 
Why lurkest thou in the corner , lazy one ? said she . 
What could the witch expect ? It was nothing , after all , but a scarecrow stuck upon two sticks . 
So it stepped into the bar of sunshine . 
have so overpeopled the world of fiction . 
, at this pusillanimous behavior of the thing which she had taken the trouble to put together . 
Puff away , wretch ! cried she , wrathfully . 
Thus threatened , the unhappy scarecrow had nothing for it but to puff away for dear life . 
As need was , therefore , it applied itself lustily to the pipe , and sent forth such abundant volleys of tobacco smoke that the small cottage kitchen became all vaporous . 
The one sunbeam struggled mistily through , and could but imperfectly define the image of the cracked and dusty window pane on the opposite wall . 
In fear and trembling did this poor scarecrow puff . 
Its very garments , moreover , partook of the magical change , and shone with the gloss of novelty and glistened with the skilfully embroidered gold that had long ago been rent away . 
And , half revealed among the smoke , a yellow visage bent its lustreless eyes on Mother Rigby . 
At last the old witch clinched her fist and shook it at the figure . 
But here was the crisis . 
Should she fail in what she now sought to effect , it was her ruthless purpose to scatter the miserable simulacre into its original elements . 
Thou hast a man's aspect , said she , sternly . 
Some narrators of this legend hold the opinion that Mother Rigby's conjurations and the fierceness of her will had compelled a familiar spirit into the figure , and that the voice was his . 
thou shalt not lack the wherewithal to talk . 
Talk ! Why , thou shall babble like a mill stream , if thou wilt . 
Thou hast brains enough for that , I trow ! At your service , mother , responded the figure . 
And that was well said , my pretty one , answered Mother Rigby . 
Then thou speakest like thyself , and meant nothing . 
Thou shalt have a hundred such set phrases , and five hundred to the boot of them . 
But thou art the very best . 
So give heed to what I say . 
Yes , kind mother , said the figure , with all my heart ! With all thy heart ! cried the old witch , setting her hands to her sides and laughing loudly . 
Thou hast such a pretty way of speaking . 
And , that he might hold up his head with the best of them , she endowed him , on the spot , with an unreckonable amount of wealth . 
If the salt were not dissolved , and could be brought to market , it would fetch a pretty penny among the fishermen . 
With that brass alone , quoth Mother Rigby , thou canst pay thy way all over the earth . 
Kiss me , pretty darling ! I have done my best for thee . 
, who stood at the head of society in the neighboring metropolis . 
The token was neither more nor less than a single word , which Mother Rigby whispered to the scarecrow , and which the scarecrow was to whisper to the merchant . 
Gouty as the old fellow is , he'll run thy errands for thee , when once thou hast given him that word in his ear , said the old witch . 
The worshipful Master Gookin , whispered she , hath a comely maiden to his daughter . 
And hark ye , my pet ! Thou hast a fair outside , and a pretty wit enough of thine own . 
Yea , a pretty wit enough ! Thou wilt think better of it when thou hast seen more of other people's wits . 
Now , with thy outside and thy inside , thou art the very man to win a young girl's heart . 
Never doubt it ! I tell thee it shall be so . 
It was wonderful to see how exceedingly like a human being it behaved . 
were bent on Mother Rigby , and at suitable junctures it nodded or shook its head . 
Its garments , too , glistened so much the brighter with an illusory magnificence . 
But the beldam foresaw the difficulty . 
Hold thou the pipe , my precious one , said she , while I fill it for thee again . 
Now , mine own heart's darling , quoth Mother Rigby , whatever may happen to thee , thou must stick to thy pipe . 
Thy life is in it and that , at least , thou knowest well , if thou knowest nought besides . 
cry sharply , 'Dickon , a fresh pipe of tobacco ! and , 'Dickon , another coal for my pipe ! and have it into thy pretty mouth as speedily as may be . 
If an honest man and a gentleman may ! Thou playest thy part to perfection . 
I hold myself a better witch than yesterday , for thy sake . 
That gold head has as much sense in it as thine own , said Mother Rigby , and it will guide thee straight to worshipful Master Gookin's door . 
Get thee gone , my pretty pet , my darling , my precious one , my treasure and if any ask thy name , it is Feathertop . 
She watched him until out of sight , and threw a witch benediction after her darling , when a turn of the road snatched him from her view . 
His port as well as his garments betokened nothing short of nobility . 
, he carried beneath his arm . 
On the breast of his coat glistened a star . 
As may well be supposed , the street was all astir to find out the stranger's name . 
It is some great nobleman , beyond question , said one of the townspeople . 
Do you see the star at his breast ? Nay it is too bright to be seen , said another . 
Yes he must needs be a nobleman , as you say . 
If he came among us in rags , nobility would shine through a hole in his elbow . 
I never saw such dignity of aspect . 
He has the old Norman blood in his veins , I warrant him . 
I rather take him to be a Dutchman , or one of your high Germans , said another citizen . 
The men of those countries have always the pipe at their mouths . 
And so has a Turk , answered his companion . 
The stranger's character and office are evident enough . 
He is a French ambassador , come to treat with our rulers about the cession of Canada . 
Those settlers in Peru and Mexico have skins as yellow as the gold which they dig out of their mines . 
Upon my honor , they have quite dazzled me . 
Was ever so original and exquisite a compliment ? murmured the lady , in an ecstasy of delight . 
Amid the general admiration excited by the stranger's appearance , there were only two dissenting voices . 
The other dissentient was a young child , who squalled at the fullest stretch of his lungs , and babbled some unintelligible nonsense about a pumpkin . 
Feathertop meanwhile pursued his way along the street . 
In the interim , before his summons was answered , the stranger was observed to shake the ashes out of his pipe . 
What did he say in that sharp voice ? inquired one of the spectators . 
Nay , I know not , answered his friend . 
But the sun dazzles my eyes strangely . 
There is something mysterious about this stranger . 
What a whiff of smoke was that ! Dim and faded did you call him ? Why , as he turns about the star on his breast is all ablaze . 
It is , indeed , said his companion and it will go near to dazzle pretty Polly Gookin , whom I see peeping at it out of the chamber window . 
Our legend here loses somewhat of its continuity , and , passing over the preliminary explanation between Feathertop and the merchant , goes in quest of the pretty Polly Gookin . 
She was a damsel of a soft , round figure , with light hair and blue eyes , and a fair , rosy face , which seemed neither very shrewd nor very simple . 
Polly ! daughter Polly ! cried the old merchant . 
Master Gookin's aspect , as he opened the door , was doubtful and troubled . 
Pay your duty to his lordship , child , and honor him as his quality deserves . 
After these few words of introduction , the worshipful magistrate immediately quitted the room . 
The old man was nervous , fidgety , and very pale . 
The truth appears to have been that Mother Rigby's word of introduction , whatever it might be , had operated far more on the rich merchant's fears than on his good will . 
Moreover , being a man of wonderfully acute observation , he had noticed that these painted figures on the bowl of Feathertop's pipe were in motion . 
Gladly would poor Master Gookin have thrust his dangerous guest into the street but there was a constraint and terror within him . 
It so happened that the parlor door was partly of glass , shaded by a silken curtain , the folds of which hung a little awry . 
But there was nothing very miraculous to be seen nothing except the trifles previously noticed to confirm the idea of a supernatural peril environing the pretty Polly . 
Perhaps it was this peculiarity that invested him with a species of ghastliness and awe . 
But pretty Polly Gookin felt not thus . 
, she was evidently beginning to be in love . 
No matter what Feathertop said , his words found depth and reverberation in her ear no matter what he did , his action was heroic to her eye . 
The maiden raised her eyes and suffered them to linger upon her companion with a bashful and admiring gaze . 
It was one of the truest plates in the world and incapable of flattery . 
The wretched simulacrum ! We almost pity him . 
Yet it did not seem so much the tramp of human footsteps as the clatter of sticks or the rattling of dry bones . 
Ha ! thought the old witch , what step is that ? Whose skeleton is out of its grave now , I wonder ? A figure burst headlong into the cottage door . 
, the poor reality was felt beneath the cunning artifice . 
What has gone wrong ? demanded the witch . 
Did the girl scorn my precious one ? asked Mother Rigby , her fierce eyes glowing like two coals of Tophet . 
The eyeholes were now lustreless but the rudely carved gap , that just before had been a mouth still seemed to twist itself into a despairing grin , and was so far human . 
Poor fellow ! quoth Mother Rigby , with a rueful glance at the relics of her ill fated contrivance . 
Poor Feathertop ! she continued . 
I could easily give him another chance and send him forth again tomorrow . 
But no his feelings are too tender , his sensibilities too deep . 
He seems to have too much heart to bustle for his own advantage in such an empty and heartless world . 
Well ! well ! I'll make a scarecrow of him after all . 
So saying Mother Rigby put the stem between her lips . 
Dickon ! cried she , in her high , sharp tone , another coal for my pipe ! EGOTISM OR , THE BOSOM SERPENT From the Unpublished Allegories of the Heart . 
The physical fact , to which it is here attempted to give a moral signification , has been known to occur in more than one instance . 
Here he comes ! shouted the boys along the street . 
A snake in his bosom ! repeated the young sculptor to himself . 
No second man on earth has such a bosom friend . 
And now , my poor Rosina , Heaven grant me wisdom to discharge my errand aright ! Woman's faith must be strong indeed since thine has not yet failed . 
Thus musing , he took his stand at the entrance of the gate and waited until the personage so singularly announced should make his appearance . 
The wretched being approached the gate , but , instead of entering , stopped short and fixed the glitter of his eye full upon the compassionate yet steady countenance of the sculptor . 
It gnaws me ! It gnaws me ! he exclaimed . 
And then there was an audible hiss , but whether it came from the apparent lunatic's own lips , or was the real hiss of a serpent , might admit of a discussion . 
At all events , it made Herkimer shudder to his heart's core . 
Do you know me , George Herkimer ? asked the snake possessed . 
The possibility of such a transformation being granted , it was as easy to conceive it effected in a moment as in an age . 
Elliston ! Roderick ! cried he , I had heard of this but my conception came far short of the truth . 
What has befallen you ? Why do I find you thus ? Oh , 'tis a mere nothing ! A snake ! A snake ! The commonest thing in the world . 
A snake in the bosom that's all , answered Roderick Elliston . 
But how is your own breast ? continued he , looking the sculptor in the eye with the most acute and penetrating glance that it had ever been his fortune to encounter . 
I have crossed the ocean to meet you . 
Listen ! Let us be private . 
I bring a message from Rosina from your wife ! It gnaws me ! It gnaws me ! muttered Roderick . 
He then freed himself from Herkimer's grasp by a subtle motion , and , gliding through the gate , took refuge in his antiquated family residence . 
The sculptor did not pursue him . 
He succeeded in obtaining the necessary information from an eminent medical gentleman . 
The symptoms caused them endless perplexity . 
They looked for the root of this trouble in his shattered schemes of domestic bliss , wilfully shattered by himself , but could not be satisfied of its existence there . 
Some thought that their once brilliant friend was in an incipient stage of insanity , of which his passionate impulses had perhaps been the forerunners others prognosticated a general blight and gradual decline . 
From Roderick's own lips they could learn nothing . 
, had been relieved of a SNAKE in his stomach ! So here was the monstrous secret , ejected from its lurking place into public view , in all its horrible deformity . 
The mystery was out but not so the bosom serpent . 
He , if it were anything but a delusion , still lay coiled in his living den . 
He summoned the old black servant , who had been bred up in his father's house , and was a middle aged man while Roderick lay in his cradle . 
Scipio ! he began and then paused , with his arms folded over his heart . 
What do people say of me , Scipio . 
Sir ! my poor master ! that you had a serpent in your bosom , answered the servant with hesitation . 
And what else ? asked Roderick , with a ghastly look at the man . 
Nothing else , dear master , replied Scipio , only that the doctor gave you a powder , and that the snake leaped out upon the floor . 
No , no ! muttered Roderick to himself , as he shook his head , and pressed his hands with a more convulsive force upon his breast , I feel him still . 
It gnaws me ! It gnaws me ! From this time the miserable sufferer ceased to shun the world , but rather solicited and forced himself upon the notice of acquaintances and strangers . 
But still more , this craving for notoriety was a symptom of the intense morbidness which now pervaded his nature . 
Such individuals are made acutely conscious of a self , by the torture in which it dwells . 
Self , therefore , grows to be so prominent an object with them that they cannot but present it to the face of every casual passer by . 
Roderick Elliston , who , a little while before , had held himself so scornfully above the common lot of men , now paid full allegiance to this humiliating law . 
He soon exhibited what most people considered indubitable tokens of insanity . 
Thus he drew his misery around him like a regal mantle , and looked down triumphantly upon those whose vitals nourished no deadly monster . 
Oftener , however , his human nature asserted its empire over him in the shape of a yearning for fellowship . 
With cankered ingenuity , he sought out his own disease in every breast . 
For instance , he met an individual , who , for thirty years , had cherished a hatred against his own brother . 
The snake ! exclaimed the brother hater what do you mean ? The snake ! The snake ! Does it gnaw you ? persisted Roderick . 
Why is this lunatic allowed to go at large ? Ha , ha ! chuckled Roderick , releasing his grasp of the man . 
His bosom serpent has stung him then ! Often it pleased the unfortunate young man to vex people with a lighter satire , yet still characterized by somewhat of snake like virulence . 
You have swallowed a snake in a cup of sacramental wine , quoth he . 
Profane wretch ! exclaimed the divine but , nevertheless , his hand stole to his breast . 
This man's very heart , if Roderick might be believed , had been changed into a serpent , which would finally torment both him and itself to death . 
Observing a married couple , whose domestic troubles were matter of notoriety , he condoled with both on having mutually taken a house adder to their bosoms . 
And what one is that ? asked a by stander , overhearing him . 
It was a dark browed man who put the question he had an evasive eye , which in the course of a dozen years had looked no mortal directly in the face . 
What bosom serpent has the sharpest sting ? repeated this man but he put the question as if by a reluctant necessity , and grew pale while he was uttering it . 
Why need you ask ? replied Roderick , with a look of dark intelligence . 
Look into your own breast . 
If there were in fact any such sound , it might have been caused by a malicious exercise of ventriloquism on the part of Roderick . 
Nobody could elude him none could withstand him . 
He grappled with the ugliest truth that he could lay his hand on , and compelled his adversary to do the same . 
Still the city could not bear this new apostle . 
Accordingly , his relatives interfered and placed him in a private asylum for the insane . 
When the news was noised abroad , it was observed that many persons walked the streets with freer countenances and covered their breasts less carefully with their hands . 
His confinement , however , although it contributed not a little to the peace of the town , operated unfavorably upon Roderick himself . 
In solitude his melancholy grew more black and sullen . 
He spent whole days indeed , it was his sole occupation in communing with the serpent . 
A conversation was sustained , in which , as it seemed , the hidden monster bore a part , though unintelligibly to the listeners , and inaudible except in a hiss . 
Singular as it may appear , the sufferer had now contracted a sort of affection for his tormentor , mingled , however , with the intensest loathing and horror . 
Nor were such discordant emotions incompatible . 
Each , on the contrary , imparted strength and poignancy to its opposite . 
Sometimes , in his moments of rage and bitter hatred against the snake and himself , Roderick determined to be the death of him , even at the expense of his own life . 
Then he privily took a dose of active poison , imagining that it would not fail to kill either himself or the devil that possessed him , or both together . 
Another mistake for if Roderick had not yet been destroyed by his own poisoned heart nor the snake by gnawing it , they had little to fear from arsenic or corrosive sublimate . 
Indeed , the venomous pest appeared to operate as an antidote against all other poisons . 
The physicians tried to suffocate the fiend with tobacco smoke . 
He breathed it as freely as if it were his native atmosphere . 
Again , they drugged their patient with opium and drenched him with intoxicating liquors , hoping that the snake might thus be reduced to stupor and perhaps be ejected from the stomach . 
Thenceforth they gave up all attempts at cure or palliation . 
It is supposed that he succeeded for the attendants once heard a frenzied shout , and , rushing into the room , found Roderick lifeless upon the floor . 
He was kept but little longer under restraint . 
On this decision of such competent authority Roderick was released , and had returned to his native city the very day before his encounter with George Herkimer . 
As soon as possible after learning these particulars the sculptor , together with a sad and tremulous companion , sought Elliston at his own house . 
Some immense old elms almost concealed the front of the mansion . 
Remain in the arbor , whispered the sculptor to the figure that leaned upon his arm . 
You will know whether , and when , to make your appearance . 
God will teach me , was the reply . 
How strange is the life of a fountain ! born at every moment , yet of an age coeval with the rocks , and far surpassing the venerable antiquity of a forest . 
You are come ! I have expected you , said Elliston , when he became aware of the sculptor's presence . 
His manner was very different from that of the preceding day quiet , courteous , and , as Herkimer thought , watchful both over his guest and himself . 
This unnatural restraint was almost the only trait that betokened anything amiss . 
He had just thrown a book upon the grass , where it lay half opened , thus disclosing itself to be a natural history of the serpent tribe , illustrated by lifelike plates . 
If I mistake not , he will prove to be sui generis , and akin to no other reptile in creation . 
Whence came this strange calamity ? inquired the sculptor . 
This insinuating personage once crept into the vitals of my great grandfather and dwelt there many years , tormenting the old gentleman beyond mortal endurance . 
In short it is a family peculiarity . 
But , to tell you the truth , I have no faith in this idea of the snake's being an heirloom . 
He is my own snake , and no man's else . 
But what was his origin ? demanded Herkimer . 
Oh , there is poisonous stuff in any man's heart sufficient to generate a brood of serpents , said Elliston with a hollow laugh . 
You should have heard my homilies to the good town's people . 
Positively , I deem myself fortunate in having bred but a single serpent . 
You , however , have none in your bosom , and therefore cannot sympathize with the rest of the world . 
Then , likewise , was heard that frightful hiss , which often ran through the sufferer's speech , and crept between the words and syllables without interrupting their succession . 
This is awful indeed ! exclaimed the sculptor an awful infliction , whether it be actual or imaginary . 
Could I for one moment forget myself , the serpent might not abide within me . 
It is my diseased self contemplation that has engendered and nourished him . 
She touched Roderick with her hand . 
A tremor shivered through his frame . 
At that moment , if report be trustworthy , the sculptor beheld a waving motion through the grass , and heard a tinkling sound , as if something had plunged into the fountain . 
The punishment has been severe , observed the sculptor . 
A tremendous Egotism , manifesting itself in your case in the form of jealousy , is as fearful a fiend as ever stole into the human heart . 
Can a breast , where it has dwelt so long , be purified ? Oh yes , said Rosina with a heavenly smile . 
The serpent was but a dark fantasy , and what it typified was as shadowy as itself . 
The past , dismal as it seems , shall fling no gloom upon the future . 
To give it its due importance we must think of it but as an anecdote in our Eternity . 
Ah ! that will do , Drowne , that will do ! cried the jolly captain , tapping the log with his rattan . 
I bespeak this very piece of oak for the figure head of the Cynosure . 
She has shown herself the sweetest craft that ever floated , and I mean to decorate her prow with the handsomest image that the skill of man can cut out of timber . 
And , Drowne , you are the fellow to execute it . 
You give me more credit than I deserve , Captain Hunnewell , said the carver , modestly , yet as one conscious of eminence in his art . 
But , for the sake of the good brig , I stand ready to do my best . 
Here is the valiant Admiral Vernon . 
Or , if you prefer a female figure , what say you to Britannia with the trident ? All very fine , Drowne all very fine , answered the mariner . 
But as nothing like the brig ever swam the ocean , so I am determined she shall have such a figure head as old Neptune never saw in his life . 
And what is more , as there is a secret in the matter , you must pledge your credit not to betray it . 
You may depend , captain , on my being as secret as the nature of the case will permit . 
We shall , therefore , take the opportunity to give the reader a few desirable particulars about Drowne himself . 
He became noted for carving ornamental pump heads , and wooden urns for gate posts , and decorations , more grotesque than fanciful , for mantelpieces . 
But the great scope of his business lay in the manufacture of figure heads for vessels . 
The captain of the Cynosure had now finished his instructions . 
And Drowne , said he , impressively , you must lay aside all other business and set about this forthwith . 
And as to the price , only do the job in first rate style , and you shall settle that point yourself . 
Often he was absent in the daytime . 
Nothing remarkable , however , was observed in the shop at those late hours when it was thrown open . 
A fine piece of timber , indeed , which Drowne was known to have reserved for some work of especial dignity , was seen to be gradually assuming shape . 
What shape it was destined ultimately to take was a problem to his friends and a point on which the carver himself preserved a rigid silence . 
At each new visit they beheld a larger pile of wooden chips and a nearer approximation to something beautiful . 
But in not a single instance did it seem as if the wood were imbibing the ethereal essence of humanity . 
You would have me think that you are praising me highly , Mr. Copley , answered Drowne , turning his back upon Wolfe's image in apparent disgust . 
But there has come a light into my mind . 
There is the same difference between them and the works of an inspired artist as between a sign post daub and one of your best pictures . 
But no there was not a trace of it . 
He was about to withdraw when his eyes chanced to fall upon a half developed figure which lay in a corner of the workshop , surrounded by scattered chips of oak . 
It arrested him at once . 
What is here ? Who has done this ? he broke out , after contemplating it in speechless astonishment for an instant . 
Here is the divine , the lifegiving touch . 
What inspired hand is beckoning this wood to arise and live ? Whose work is this ? No man's work , replied Drowne . 
The figure lies within that block of oak , and it is my business to find it . 
Strange enough ! said the artist to himself . 
Day by day , however , the work assumed greater precision , and settled its irregular and misty outline into distincter grace and beauty . 
The general design was now obvious to the common eye . 
And now , so far as carving went , this wonderful production was complete . 
It is as ideal as an antique statue , and yet as real as any lovely woman whom one meets at a fireside or in the street . 
A well spring of inward wisdom gushed within me as I wrought upon the oak with my whole strength , and soul , and faith . 
Let others do what they may with marble , and adopt what rules they choose . 
If I can produce my desired effect by painted wood , those rules are not for me , and I have a right to disregard them . 
The very spirit of genius , muttered Copley to himself . 
When all was finished he threw open his workshop , and admitted the towns people to behold what he had done . 
Then came a sensation of fear as if , not being actually human , yet so like humanity , she must therefore be something preternatural . 
I have not wrought it for money , said Drowne . 
What sort of a fellow is this ! thought Copley . 
A Yankee , and throw away the chance of making his fortune ! He has gone mad and thence has come this gleam of genius . 
The bigots of the day hinted that it would be no matter of surprise if an evil spirit were allowed to enter this beautiful form , and seduce the carver to destruction . 
The fame of the image spread far and wide . 
The inhabitants visited it so universally , that after a few days of exhibition there was hardly an old man or a child who had not become minutely familiar with its aspect . 
The people in the street started , rubbed their eyes , and either leaped aside from their path , or stood as if transfixed to wood or marble in astonishment . 
Do you see it ? do you see it ? cried one , with tremulous eagerness . 
It is the very same ! The same ? answered another , who had arrived in town only the night before . 
It was exactly and minutely the shape , the garb , and the face which the towns people had so recently thronged to see and admire . 
A real diamond sparkled on her finger . 
One thing is certain , muttered a Puritan of the old stamp , Drowne has sold himself to the devil and doubtless this gay Captain Hunnewell is a party to the bargain . 
And I , said a young man who overheard him , would almost consent to be the third victim , for the liberty of saluting those lovely lips . 
And so would I , said Copley , the painter , for the privilege of taking her picture . 
The crowd still followed , gathering volume as it rolled along . 
Never had a modern miracle occurred in such broad daylight , nor in the presence of such a multitude of witnesses . 
She was observed to flutter her fan with such vehement rapidity that the elaborate delicacy of its workmanship gave way , and it remained broken in her hand . 
She and her cavalier then disappeared . 
Ah ! murmured the crowd , drawing a deep breath , as with one vast pair of lungs . 
The world looks darker now that she has vanished , said some of the young men . 
If she be other than a bubble of the elements , exclaimed Copley , I must look upon her face again . 
The carver stood beside his creation mending the beautiful fan , which by some accident was broken in her hand . 
Captain Hunnewell , too , had vanished . 
His hoarse sea breezy tones , however , were audible on the other side of a door that opened upon the water . 
Sit down in the stern sheets , my lady , said the gallant captain . 
Come , bear a hand , you lubbers , and set us on board in the turning of a minute glass . 
And then was heard the stroke of oars . 
Drowne , said Copley with a smile of intelligence , you have been a truly fortunate man . 
What painter or statuary ever had such a subject ! No wonder that she inspired a genius into you , and first created the artist who afterwards created her image . 
Drowne looked at him with a visage that bore the traces of tears , but from which the light of imagination and sensibility , so recently illuminating it , had departed . 
He was again the mechanical carver that he had been known to be all his lifetime . 
I hardly understand what you mean , Mr. Copley , said he , putting his hand to his brow . 
To our friend Drowne there came a brief season of excitement , kindled by love . 
This fair stranger must have been the original of Drowne's Wooden Image . 
The open bravery displayed by both parties was in accordance with civilized ideas of valor and chivalry itself might not blush to record the deeds of one or two individuals . 
The early sunbeams hovered cheerfully upon the tree tops , beneath which two weary and wounded men had stretched their limbs the night before . 
He next turned his eyes to the companion who reclined by his side . 
The first act of reviving recollection was to make anxious inquiries respecting the condition of his wounded fellow traveller . 
The latter shook his head . 
Reuben , my boy , said he , this rock beneath which we sit will serve for an old hunter's gravestone . 
The Indian bullet was deadlier than I thought . 
You are weary with our three days' travel , replied the youth , and a little longer rest will recruit you . 
I doubt not that , with my help , you can attain to some one of the frontier garrisons . 
Your wounds are deep and your strength is failing fast yet , if you hasten onward alone , you may be preserved . 
For me there is no hope , and I will await death here . 
If it must be so , I will remain and watch by you , said Reuben , resolutely No , my son , no , rejoined his companion . 
Let the wish of a dying man have weight with you give me one grasp of your hand , and get you hence . 
I charge you to be gone that I may die in peace . 
And because you have been a father to me , should I therefore leave you to perish and to lie unburied in the wilderness ? exclaimed the youth . 
No if your end be in truth approaching , I will watch by you and receive your parting words . 
Tarry not , then , for a folly like this , but hasten away , if not for your own sake , for hers who will else be desolate . 
Malvin spoke the last few words in a faltering voice , and their effect upon his companion was strongly visible . 
They reminded him that there were other and less questionable duties than that of sharing the fate of a man whom his death could not benefit . 
Nor can it be affirmed that no selfish feeling strove to enter Reuben's heart , though the consciousness made him more earnestly resist his companion's entreaties . 
How terrible to wait the slow approach of death in this solitude ! exclaimed he . 
I am a man of no weak heart , and , if I were , there is a surer support than that of earthly friends . 
You are young , and life is dear to you . 
But I will urge no selfish motive to your generous nature . 
Leave me for my sake , that , having said a prayer for your safety , I may have space to settle my account undisturbed by worldly sorrows . 
And your daughter , how shall I dare to meet her eye ? exclaimed Reuben . 
She will ask the fate of her father , whose life I vowed to defend with my own . 
He felt as if it were both sin and folly to think of happiness at such a moment . 
His companion watched his changing countenance , and sought with generous art to wile him to his own good . 
Perhaps I deceive myself in regard to the time I have to live , he resumed . 
It may be that , with speedy assistance , I might recover of my wound . 
The foremost fugitives must , ere this , have carried tidings of our fatal battle to the frontiers , and parties will be out to succor those in like condition with ourselves . 
Surely there is reason , weighty reason , to hope that friends are not far distant , he said , half aloud . 
There fled one coward , unwounded , in the beginning of the fight , and most probably he made good speed . 
Counsel me faithfully , he added , turning to Malvin , in distrust of his own motives . 
And did you return in time to save him ? asked Reuben , hanging on Malvin's words as if they were to be prophetic of his own success . 
I did , answered the other . 
I came upon the camp of a hunting party before sunset of the same day . 
This example , powerful in affecting Reuben's decision , was aided , unconsciously to himself , by the hidden strength of many another motive . 
Roger Malvin perceived that the victory was nearly won . 
Now , go , my son , and Heaven prosper you ! he said . 
Reuben Bourne , but half convinced that he was acting rightly , at length raised himself from the ground and prepared himself for his departure . 
And first , though contrary to Malvin's wishes , he collected a stock of roots and herbs , which had been their only food during the last two days . 
This useless supply he placed within reach of the dying man , for whom , also , he swept together a bed of dry oak leaves . 
Then climbing to the summit of the rock , which on one side was rough and broken , he bent the oak sapling downward , and bound his handkerchief to the topmost branch . 
He then descended , and stood , with downcast eyes , to receive Roger Malvin's parting words . 
The experience of the latter suggested much and minute advice respecting the youth's journey through the trackless forest . 
But his firmness was shaken before he concluded . 
Carry my blessing to Dorcas , and say that my last prayer shall be for her and you . 
Reuben , therefore , felt the full importance of the promise which he most solemnly made to return and perform Roger Malvin's obsequies . 
Reuben was internally convinced that he should see Malvin's living face no more . 
It is enough , said Roger Malvin , having listened to Reuben's promise . 
Go , and God speed you ! The youth pressed his hand in silence , turned , and was departing . 
His slow and faltering steps , however , had borne him but a little way before Malvin's voice recalled him . 
Reuben , Reuben , said he , faintly and Reuben returned and knelt down by the dying man . 
Raise me , and let me lean against the rock , was his last request . 
My face will be turned towards home , and I shall see you a moment longer as you pass among the trees . 
Reuben , having made the desired alteration in his companion's posture , again began his solitary pilgrimage . 
He felt how hard was the doom of the kind and generous being whom he had deserted in his extremity . 
Many circumstances combined to retard the wounded traveller in his way to the frontiers . 
His scanty sustenance was supplied by the berries and other spontaneous products of the forest . 
His wounds , irritated by the constant exertion in which lay the only hope of life , wore away his strength and at intervals confused his reason . 
In this situation he was discovered by a party who , upon the first intelligence of the fight , had been despatched to the relief of the survivors . 
They conveyed him to the nearest settlement , which chanced to be that of his own residence . 
Dorcas nourished her apprehensions in silence till one afternoon when Reuben awoke from an unquiet sleep , and seemed to recognize her more perfectly than at any previous time . 
She saw that his intellect had become composed , and she could no longer restrain her filial anxiety . 
My father , Reuben ? she began but the change in her lover's countenance made her pause . 
The youth shrank as if with a bitter pain , and the blood gushed vividly into his wan and hollow cheeks . 
His first impulse was to cover his face but , apparently with a desperate effort , he half raised himself and spoke vehemently , defending himself against an imaginary accusation . 
Reuben felt it impossible to acknowledge that his selfish love of life had hurried him away before her father's fate was decided . 
He spoke not he only bowed his head and , between shame and exhaustion , sank back and hid his face in the pillow . 
Dorcas wept when her fears were thus confirmed but the shock , as it had been long anticipated . 
was on that account the less violent . 
You dug a grave for my poor father in the wilderness , Reuben ? was the question by which her filial piety manifested itself . 
My hands were weak but I did what I could , replied the youth in a smothered tone . 
During the marriage ceremony the bride was covered with blushes , but the bridegroom's face was pale . 
There was now in the breast of Reuben Bourne an incommunicable thought something which he was to conceal most heedfully from her whom he most loved and trusted . 
He felt that for leaving Roger Malvin he deserved no censure . 
By a certain association of ideas , he at times almost imagined himself a murderer . 
For years , also , a thought would occasionally recur , which , though he perceived all its folly and extravagance , he had not power to banish from his mind . 
Yet such was the consequence of his prevarication that he could not obey the call . 
But year after year that summons , unheard but felt , was disobeyed . 
His one secret thought became like a chain binding down his spirit and like a serpent gnawing into his heart and he was transformed into a sad and downcast yet irritable man . 
In the course of a few years after their marriage changes began to be visible in the external prosperity of Reuben and Dorcas . 
Reuben Bourne , however , was a neglectful husbandman and , while the lands of the other settlers became annually more fruitful , his deteriorated in the same proportion . 
But Reuben did not profit by the altered condition of the country nor can it be denied that his intervals of industrious attention to his affairs were but scantily rewarded with success . 
The irritability by which he had recently become distinguished was another cause of his declining prosperity , as it occasioned frequent quarrels in his unavoidable intercourse with the neighboring settlers . 
He was to throw sunlight into some deep recess of the forest , and seek subsistence from the virgin bosom of the wilderness . 
The only child of Reuben and Dorcas was a son , now arrived at the age of fifteen years , beautiful in youth , and giving promise of a glorious manhood . 
He was peculiarly qualified for , and already began to excel in , the wild accomplishments of frontier life . 
Two months of autumn were thus occupied , after which Reuben Bourne and his young hunter returned to spend their last winter in the settlements . 
The sadness of the parting moment had , to each of the pilgrims , its peculiar alleviations . 
Reuben , a moody man , and misanthropic because unhappy , strode onward with his usual stern brow and downcast eye , feeling few regrets and disdaining to acknowledge any . 
And the boy dashed one tear drop from his eye , and thought of the adventurous pleasures of the untrodden forest . 
When death , like the sweet sleep which we welcome after a day of happiness , came over him , his far descendants would mourn over the venerated dust . 
They slept beneath a hut of branches , and awoke at peep of light refreshed for the toils of another day . 
Cyrus Bourne was sufficiently skilled in the travel of the woods to observe that his father did not adhere to the course they had pursued in their expedition of the preceding autumn . 
On the afternoon of the fifth day they halted , and made their simple encampment nearly an hour before sunset . 
There is something chilling , and yet heart warming , in the thought of these three , united by strong bands of love and insulated from all that breathe beside . 
Dorcas in the meanwhile , had seated herself near their fire of fallen branches upon the mossgrown and mouldering trunk of a tree uprooted years before . 
The twelfth of May ! I should remember it well , muttered he , while many thoughts occasioned a momentary confusion in his mind . 
It was near this time of the month , eighteen years ago , that my poor father left this world for a better . 
Reuben Bourne's rapid pace gradually slackened as the pang , unintentionally inflicted by the words of Dorcas , became less acute . 
His steps were imperceptibly led almost in a circle nor did he observe that he was on the verge of a tract of land heavily timbered , but not with pine trees . 
He was musing on the strange influence that had led him away from his premeditated course , and so far into the depths of the wilderness . 
From these thoughts he was aroused by a rustling in the forest at some distance from the spot to which he had wandered . 
Perceiving the motion of some object behind a thick veil of undergrowth , he fired , with the instinct of a hunter and the aim of a practised marksman . 
A low moan , which told his success , and by which even animals cars express their dying agony , was unheeded by Reuben Bourne . 
As if reflected in a mirror , its likeness was in Reuben's memory . 
There was one singularity observable in this tree which made Reuben tremble . 
Reuben remembered how the little banner had fluttered on that topmost bough , when it was green and lovely , eighteen years before . 
Whose guilt had blasted it ? . 
Dorcas , after the departure of the two hunters , continued her preparations for their evening repast . 
It had a strange aspect that one little spot of homely comfort in the desolate heart of Nature . 
The whole song possessed the nameless charm peculiar to unborrowed thought , but four continually recurring lines shone out from the rest like the blaze of the hearth whose joys they celebrated . 
The next moment she laughed in the pride of a mother's heart . 
My beautiful young hunter ! My boy has slain a deer ! she exclaimed , recollecting that in the direction whence the shot proceeded Cyrus had gone to the chase . 
She waited a reasonable time to hear her son's light step bounding over the rustling leaves to tell of his success . 
But he did not immediately appear and she sent her cheerful voice among the trees in search of him . 
Cyrus ! Cyrus ! His coming was still delayed and she determined , as the report had apparently been very near , to seek for him in person . 
Her assistance , also , might be necessary in bringing home the venison which she flattered herself he had obtained . 
The sun was now beneath the horizon , and the light that came down among the leaves was sufficiently dim to create many illusions in her expecting fancy . 
Several times she seemed indistinctly to see his face gazing out from among the leaves and once she imagined that he stood beckoning to her at the base of a craggy rock . 
Making her way round the foot of the rock , she suddenly found herself close to her husband , who had approached in another direction . 
Leaning upon the butt of his gun , the muzzle of which rested upon the withered leaves , he was apparently absorbed in the contemplation of some object at his feet . 
How is this , Reuben ? Have you slain the deer and fallen asleep over him ? exclaimed Dorcas , laughing cheerfully , on her first slight observation of his posture and appearance . 
He stirred not , neither did he turn his eyes towards her and a cold , shuddering fear , indefinite in its source and object , began to creep into her blood . 
He gave not the slightest evidence that he was aware of her approach . 
For the love of Heaven , Reuben , speak to me ! cried Dorcas and the strange sound of her own voice affrighted her even more than the dead silence . 
Her husband started , stared into her face , drew her to the front of the rock , and pointed with his finger . 
Had a sudden weariness overcome the youthful hunter ? Would his mother's voice arouse him ? She knew that it was death . 
This broad rock is the gravestone of your near kindred , Dorcas , said her husband . 
Your tears will fall at once over your father and your son . 
With one wild shriek , that seemed to force its way from the sufferer's inmost soul , she sank insensible by the side of her dead boy . 
Then Reuben's heart was stricken , and the tears gushed out like water from a rock . 
The vow that the wounded youth had made the blighted man had come to redeem . 
What can Owen Warland be about ? muttered old Peter Hovenden , himself a retired watchmaker , and the former master of this same young man whose occupation he was now wondering at . 
What can the fellow be about ? These six months past I have never come by his shop without seeing him just as steadily at work as now . 
Perhaps , father , said Annie , without showing much interest in the question , Owen is inventing a new kind of timekeeper . 
I am sure he has ingenuity enough . 
A plague on such ingenuity ! All the effect that ever I knew of it was to spoil the accuracy of some of the best watches in my shop . 
His ears are as delicate as his feelings and you know how easily disturbed they are . 
Do let us move on . 
So Peter Hovenden and his daughter Annie plodded on without further conversation , until in a by street of the town they found themselves passing the open door of a blacksmith's shop . 
Now , that is a pleasant sight , said the old watchmaker . 
I know what it is to work in gold but give me the worker in iron after all is said and done . 
He spends his labor upon a reality . 
What say you , daughter Annie ? Pray don't speak so loud , father , whispered Annie , Robert Danforth will hear you . 
And what if he should hear me ? said Peter Hovenden . 
So I say once again , give me main strength for my money . 
Annie drew her father onward without giving him time for reply . 
But it was always for purposes of grace , and never with any mockery of the useful . 
He did not , like the crowd of school boy artisans , construct little windmills on the angle of a barn or watermills across the neighboring brook . 
He looked with singular distaste at the stiff and regular processes of ordinary machinery . 
Not that his sense of beauty was thereby diminished into a sense of prettiness . 
But , at all events , this characteristic minuteness in his objects and accomplishments made the world even more incapable than it might otherwise have been of appreciating Owen Warland's genius . 
Peter Hovenden's opinion of his apprentice has already been expressed . 
He could make nothing of the lad . 
This pursuit had already consumed many months . 
It was Annie herself ! murmured he . 
I should have known it , by this throbbing of my heart , before I heard her father's voice . 
Ah , how it throbs ! I shall scarcely be able to work again on this exquisite mechanism to night . 
O throbbing heart , be quiet ! If my labor be thus thwarted , there will come vague and unsatisfied dreams which will leave me spiritless to morrow . 
Robert Danforth had brought a little anvil of his own manufacture , and peculiarly constructed , which the young artist had recently bespoken . 
Owen examined the article and pronounced it fashioned according to his wish . 
But what then ? I put more main strength into one blow of my sledge hammer than all that you have expended since you were a 'prentice . 
Is not that the truth ? Very probably , answered the low and slender voice of Owen . 
Strength is an earthly monster . 
I make no pretensions to it . 
My force , whatever there may be of it , is altogether spiritual . 
Folks do say that you are trying to discover the perpetual motion . 
The perpetual motion ? Nonsense ! replied Owen Warland , with a movement of disgust for he was full of little petulances . 
It can never be discovered . 
It is a dream that may delude men whose brains are mystified with matter , but not me . 
I am not ambitious to be honored with the paternity of a new kind of cotton machine . 
That would be droll enough ! cried the blacksmith , breaking out into such an uproar of laughter that Owen himself and the bell glasses on his work board quivered in unison . 
No , no , Owen ! No child of yours will have iron joints and sinews . 
Well , I won't hinder you any more . 
Good night , Owen , and success , and if you need any assistance , so far as a downright blow of hammer upon anvil will answer the purpose , I'm your man . 
And with another laugh the man of main strength left the shop . 
His hard , brute force darkens and confuses the spiritual element within me but I , too , will be strong in my own way . 
I will not yield to him . 
Heaven ! What have I done ? exclaimed he . 
The vapor , the influence of that brute force , it has bewildered me and obscured my perception . 
I have made the very stroke the fatal stroke that I have dreaded from the first . 
It is all over the toil of months , the object of my life . 
I am ruined ! And there he sat , in strange despair , until his lamp flickered in the socket and left the Artist of the Beautiful in darkness . 
For a time Owen Warland succumbed to this severe but inevitable test . 
He spent a few sluggish weeks with his head so continually resting in his hands that the towns people had scarcely an opportunity to see his countenance . 
When at last it was again uplifted to the light of day , a cold , dull , nameless change was perceptible upon it . 
Owen now , indeed , applied himself to business with dogged industry . 
In consequence of the good report thus acquired , Owen Warland was invited by the proper authorities to regulate the clock in the church steeple . 
In a word , the heavy weight upon his spirits kept everything in order , not merely within his own system , but wheresoever the iron accents of the church clock were audible . 
One day , during the era of this happy transformation , old Peter Hovenden came to visit his former apprentice . 
I should hardly dare touch it , sir , replied Owen , in a depressed tone for he was weighed down by his old master's presence . 
In time , said the latter , In time , you will be capable of it . 
The artist , meanwhile , could scarcely lift his head . 
Owen groaned in spirit and prayed fervently to be delivered from him . 
What have we here ? Owen ! Owen ! there is witchcraft in these little chains , and wheels , and paddles . 
See ! with one pinch of my finger and thumb I am going to deliver you from all future peril . 
Aha , young man ! And is it so ? said the old watchmaker , looking at him with just enough penetration to torture Owen's soul with the bitterness of worldly criticism . 
Well , take your own course but I warn you again that in this small piece of mechanism lives your evil spirit . 
He then took his leave , with an uplifted finger and a sneer upon his face that haunted the artist's dreams for many a night afterwards . 
But the innate tendency of his soul had only been accumulating fresh vigor during its apparent sluggishness . 
He wasted the sunshine , as people said , in wandering through the woods and fields and along the banks of streams . 
There , like a child , he found amusement in chasing butterflies or watching the motions of water insects . 
There was something truly mysterious in the intentness with which he contemplated these living playthings as they sported on the breeze or examined the structure of an imperial insect whom he had imprisoned . 
The night was now his time for the slow progress of re creating the one idea to which all his intellectual activity referred itself . 
Always at the approach of dusk he stole into the town , locked himself within his shop , and wrought with patient delicacy of touch for many hours . 
Daylight , to the morbid sensibility of his mind , seemed to have an intrusiveness that interfered with his pursuits . 
She had worn a hole through her silver thimble , and wanted Owen to repair it . 
But I don't know whether you will condescend to such a task , said she , laughing , now that you are so taken up with the notion of putting spirit into machinery . 
Where did you get that idea , Annie ? said Owen , starting in surprise . 
And that would be a pretty sight ! retorted Annie , glancing with imperceptible slightness at the artist's small and slender frame . 
Well here is the thimble . 
But that is a strange idea of yours , said Owen , about the spiritualization of matter . 
And then the thought stole into his mind that this young girl possessed the gift to comprehend him better than all the world besides . 
Annie , cried he , growing pale as death at the thought , how gladly would I tell you the secret of my pursuit ! You , methinks , would estimate it rightly . 
You , I know , would hear it with a reverence that I must not expect from the harsh , material world . 
Would I not ? to be sure I would ! replied Annie Hovenden , lightly laughing . 
Come explain to me quickly what is the meaning of this little whirligig , so delicately wrought that it might be a plaything for Queen Mab . 
See ! I will put it in motion . 
She was affrighted at the convulsion of intense rage and anguish that writhed across his features . 
The next instant he let his head sink upon his hands . 
Go , Annie , murmured he I have deceived myself , and must suffer for it . 
Even Annie Hovenden , possibly might not have disappointed him had she been enlightened by the deep intelligence of love . 
The decease of a relative had put him in possession of a small inheritance . 
Owen Warland made proof of whatever show of bliss may be found in riot . 
From this perilous state he was redeemed by an incident which more than one person witnessed , but of which the shrewdest could not explain or conjecture the operation on Owen Warland's mind . 
And now , again , he resumed his wanderings in the woods and fields . 
When it took flight his eyes followed the winged vision , as if its airy track would show the path to heaven . 
In Owen Warland's case the judgment of his towns people may have been correct . 
The lack of sympathy that contrast between himself and his neighbors which took away the restraint of example was enough to make him so . 
Or possibly he had caught just so much of ethereal radiance as served to bewilder him , in an earthly sense , by its intermixture with the common daylight . 
Owen never met this man without a shrinking of the heart . 
On this occasion the old watchmaker had merely a gracious word or two to say . 
Owen , my lad , said he , we must see you at my house to morrow night . 
The artist began to mutter some excuse . 
Oh , but it must be so , quoth Peter Hovenden , for the sake of the days when you were one of the household . 
What , my boy ! don't you know that my daughter Annie is engaged to Robert Danforth ? We are making an entertainment , in our humble way , to celebrate the event . 
however , imperceptible to the old watchmaker , he allowed himself . 
Of course he had deceived himself there were no such attributes in Annie Hovenden as his imagination had endowed her with . 
She , in the aspect which she wore to his inward vision , was as much a creature of his own as the mysterious piece of mechanism would be were it ever realized . 
There was nothing left for Owen Warland but to sit down like a man that had been stunned . 
He went through a fit of illness . 
After his recovery his small and slender frame assumed an obtuser garniture of flesh than it had ever before worn . 
His thin cheeks became round his delicate little hand , so spiritually fashioned to achieve fairy task work , grew plumper than the hand of a thriving infant . 
It was as if the spirit had gone out of him , leaving the body to flourish in a sort of vegetable existence . 
Not that Owen Warland was idiotic . 
He could talk , and not irrationally . 
But all these accounts , said Owen Warland , I am now satisfied are mere impositions . 
Then , in a mysterious way , he would confess that he once thought differently . 
He seemed , however , to retain no very distinct perception either of the process of achieving this object or of the design itself . 
I have thrown it all aside now , he would say . 
It was a dream such as young men are always mystifying themselves with . 
Now that I have acquired a little common sense , it makes me laugh to think of it . 
Poor , poor and fallen Owen Warland ! These were the symptoms that he had ceased to be an inhabitant of the better sphere that lies unseen around us . 
How it awoke again is not recorded . 
Perhaps the torpid slumber was broken by a convulsive pain . 
Now for my task , said he . 
Never did I feel such strength for it as now . 
Yet , strong as he felt himself , he was incited to toil the more diligently by an anxiety lest death should surprise him in the midst of his labors . 
So long as we love life for itself , we seldom dread the losing it . 
When we desire life for the attainment of an object , we recognize the frailty of its texture . 
The prophet dies , and the man of torpid heart and sluggish brain lives on . 
The poet leaves his song half sung , or finishes it , beyond the scope of mortal ears , in a celestial choir . 
But rather such incomplete designs of this life will be perfected nowhere . 
In heaven , all ordinary thought is higher and more melodious than Milton's song . 
Then , would he add another verse to any strain that he had left unfinished here ? But to return to Owen Warland . 
It was his fortune , good or ill , to achieve the purpose of his life . 
There he found the man of iron , with his massive substance thoroughly warmed and attempered by domestic influences . 
My old friend Owen ! cried Robert Danforth , starting up , and compressing the artist's delicate fingers within a hand that was accustomed to gripe bars of iron . 
This is kind and neighborly to come to us at last . 
I was afraid your perpetual motion had bewitched you out of the remembrance of old times . 
We are glad to see you , said Annie , while a blush reddened her matronly cheek . 
It was not like a friend to stay from us so long . 
But the artist was disturbed by the child's look , as imagining a resemblance between it and Peter Hovenden's habitual expression . 
Yes , my friends , it is the truth . 
Indeed ! cried Annie , a look of maiden mirthfulness peeping out of her face again . 
And is it lawful , now , to inquire what the secret is ? Surely it is to disclose it that I have come , answered Owen Warland . 
If , forgive me , Annie , if you know how to value this gift , it can never come too late . 
He produced , as he spoke , what seemed a jewel box . 
This case of ebony the artist opened , and bade Annie place her fingers on its edge . 
It is impossible to express by words the glory , the splendor , the delicate gorgeousness which were softened into the beauty of this object . 
The rich down was visible upon its wings the lustre of its eyes seemed instinct with spirit . 
In its perfect beauty , the consideration of size was entirely lost . 
Had its wings overreached the firmament , the mind could not have been more filled or satisfied . 
Beautiful ! beautiful ! exclaimed Annie . 
Is it alive ? Is it alive ? Alive ? To be sure it is , answered her husband . 
Is it alive ? she repeated , more earnestly than before . 
Judge for yourself , said Owen Warland , who stood gazing in her face with fixed attention . 
The infant on the floor followed its course with his sagacious little eyes . 
After flying about the room , it returned in a spiral curve and settled again on Annie's finger . 
But is it alive ? exclaimed she again and the finger on which the gorgeous mystery had alighted was so tremulous that the butterfly was forced to balance himself with his wings . 
Tell me if it be alive , or whether you created it . 
Wherefore ask who created it , so it be beautiful ? replied Owen Warland . 
But and here his countenance somewhat changed this butterfly is not now to me what it was when I beheld it afar off in the daydreams of my youth . 
Be it what it may , it is a pretty plaything , said the blacksmith , grinning with childlike delight . 
I wonder whether it would condescend to alight on such a great clumsy finger as mine ? Hold it hither , Annie . 
By the artist's direction , Annie touched her finger's tip to that of her husband and , after a momentary delay , the butterfly fluttered from one to the other . 
That goes beyond me , I confess . 
But what then ? There is more real use in one downright blow of my sledge hammer than in the whole five years' labor that our friend Owen has wasted on this butterfly . 
Here the child clapped his hands and made a great babble of indistinct utterance , apparently demanding that the butterfly should be given him for a plaything . 
Owen Warland , meanwhile , glanced sidelong at Annie , to discover whether she sympathized in her husband's estimate of the comparative value of the beautiful and the practical . 
But Owen , in the latter stages of his pursuit , had risen out of the region in which such a discovery might have been torture . 
Not at this latest moment was he to learn that the reward of all high performance must be sought within itself , or sought in vain . 
But the artist smiled and kept the secret to himself . 
Father , said Annie , thinking that a word of praise from the old watchmaker might gratify his former apprentice , do come and admire this pretty butterfly . 
Here is my finger for it to alight upon . 
I shall understand it better when once I have touched it . 
It is dying ! it is dying ! cried Annie , in alarm . 
It has been delicately wrought , said the artist , calmly . 
As I told you , it has imbibed a spiritual essence call it magnetism , or what you will . 
In an atmosphere of doubt and mockery its exquisite susceptibility suffers torture , as does the soul of him who instilled his own life into it . 
It has already lost its beauty in a few moments more its mechanism would be irreparably injured . 
Take away your hand , father ! entreated Annie , turning pale . 
Here is my child let it rest on his innocent hand . 
There , perhaps , its life will revive and its colors grow brighter than ever . 
Her father , with an acrid smile , withdrew his finger . 
He , meanwhile , extended his plump hand as he had seen his father and mother do , and watched the waving of the insect's wings with infantine delight . 
How wise the little monkey looks ! whispered Robert Danforth to his wife . 
I never saw such a look on a child's face , answered Annie , admiring her own infant , and with good reason , far more than the artistic butterfly . 
The darling knows more of the mystery than we do . 
As if the butterfly , like the artist , were conscious of something not entirely congenial in the child's nature , it alternately sparkled and grew dim . 
Had there been no obstruction , it might have soared into the sky and grown immortal . 
Then the butterfly came fluttering down , and , instead of returning to the infant , was apparently attracted towards the artist's hand . 
Not so ! not so ! murmured Owen Warland , as if his handiwork could have understood him . 
Thou has gone forth out of thy master's heart . 
There is no return for thee . 
Old Peter Hovenden burst into a cold and scornful laugh . 
The blacksmith , by main force , unclosed the infant's hand , and found within the palm a small heap of glittering fragments , whence the mystery of beauty had fled forever . 
And as for Owen Warland , he looked placidly at what seemed the ruin of his life's labor , and which was yet no ruin . 
He had caught a far other butterfly than this . 
