But there certainly are not so many men of large fortune in the world as there are pretty women to deserve them . 
Miss Ward , at the end of half a dozen years , found herself obliged to be attached to the Rev . 
Mr. Norris , a friend of her brother in law , with scarcely any private fortune , and Miss Frances fared yet worse . 
She could hardly have made a more untoward choice . 
It was the natural result of the conduct of each party , and such as a very imprudent marriage almost always produces . 
To save herself from useless remonstrance , Mrs. Price never wrote to her family on the subject till actually married . 
By the end of eleven years , however , Mrs. Price could no longer afford to cherish pride or resentment , or to lose one connexion that might possibly assist her . 
It re established peace and kindness . 
Sir Thomas sent friendly advice and professions , Lady Bertram dispatched money and baby linen , and Mrs. Norris wrote the letters . 
Such were its immediate effects , and within a twelvemonth a more important advantage to Mrs. Price resulted from it . 
Lady Bertram agreed with her instantly . 
I think we cannot do better , said she let us send for the child . 
Sir Thomas could not give so instantaneous and unqualified a consent . 
He thought of his own four children , of his two sons , of cousins in love , etc . 
but no sooner had he deliberately begun to state his objections , than Mrs. Norris interrupted him with a reply to them all , whether stated or not . 
Do not let us be frightened from a good deed by a trifle . 
Give a girl an education , and introduce her properly into the world , and ten to one but she has the means of settling well , without farther expense to anybody . 
A niece of ours , Sir Thomas , I may say , or at least of yours , would not grow up in this neighbourhood without many advantages . 
I don't say she would be so handsome as her cousins . 
I never knew an instance of it . 
It is , in fact , the only sure way of providing against the connexion . 
Suppose her a pretty girl , and seen by Tom or Edmund for the first time seven years hence , and I dare say there would be mischief . 
But breed her up with them from this time , and suppose her even to have the beauty of an angel , and she will never be more to either than a sister . 
I thoroughly understand you , cried Mrs. Norris , you are everything that is generous and considerate , and I am sure we shall never disagree on this point . 
My own trouble , you know , I never regard . 
I will send Nanny to London on purpose , and she may have a bed at her cousin the saddler's , and the child be appointed to meet her there . 
They may easily get her from Portsmouth to town by the coach , under the care of any creditable person that may chance to be going . 
I dare say there is always some reputable tradesman's wife or other going up . 
Mrs. Norris was sorry to say that the little girl's staying with them , at least as things then were , was quite out of the question . 
Then she had better come to us , said Lady Bertram , with the utmost composure . 
After a short pause Sir Thomas added with dignity , Yes , let her home be in this house . 
We will endeavour to do our duty by her , and she will , at least , have the advantage of companions of her own age , and of a regular instructress . 
I only wish I could be more useful but you see I do all in my power . 
I am not one of those that spare their own trouble and Nanny shall fetch her , however it may put me to inconvenience to have my chief counsellor away for three days . 
I suppose , sister , you will put the child in the little white attic , near the old nurseries . 
Indeed , I do not see that you could possibly place her anywhere else . 
Lady Bertram made no opposition . 
I hope she will prove a well disposed girl , continued Mrs. Norris , and be sensible of her uncommon good fortune in having such friends . 
That is exactly what I think , cried Mrs. Norris , and what I was saying to my husband this morning . 
I hope she will not tease my poor pug , said Lady Bertram I have but just got Julia to leave it alone . 
Their rank , fortune , rights , and expectations will always be different . 
It is a point of great delicacy , and you must assist us in our endeavours to choose exactly the right line of conduct . 
It will be readily believed that Mrs. Norris did not write to her sister in vain . 
She spoke of her farther as somewhat delicate and puny , but was sanguine in the hope of her being materially better for change of air . 
Poor woman ! she probably thought change of air might agree with many of her children . 
The two girls were more at a loss from being younger and in greater awe of their father , who addressed them on the occasion with rather an injudicious particularity . 
There were in fact but two years between the youngest and Fanny . 
Julia Bertram was only twelve , and Maria but a year older . 
The little visitor meanwhile was as unhappy as possible . 
The fatigue , too , of so long a journey , became soon no trifling evil . 
This is not a very promising beginning , said Mrs. Norris , when Fanny had left the room . 
After all that I said to her as we came along , I thought she would have behaved better I told her how much might depend upon her acquitting herself well at first . 
Her feelings were very acute , and too little understood to be properly attended to . 
Nobody meant to be unkind , but nobody put themselves out of their way to secure her comfort . 
The holiday allowed to the Miss Bertrams the next day , on purpose to afford leisure for getting acquainted with , and entertaining their young cousin , produced little union . 
She was disheartened by Lady Bertram's silence , awed by Sir Thomas's grave looks , and quite overcome by Mrs. Norris's admonitions . 
The grandeur of the house astonished , but could not console her . 
He tried to console her . 
Let us walk out in the park , and you shall tell me all about your brothers and sisters . 
On pursuing the subject , he found that , dear as all these brothers and sisters generally were , there was one among them who ran more in her thoughts than the rest . 
It was William whom she talked of most , and wanted most to see . 
William , the eldest , a year older than herself , her constant companion and friend her advocate with her mother in every distress . 
William did not like she should come away he had told her he should miss her very much indeed . 
But William will write to you , I dare say . 
Yes , he had promised he would , but he had told her to write first . 
And when shall you do it ? She hung her head and answered hesitatingly , she did not know she had not any paper . 
If that be all your difficulty , I will furnish you with paper and every other material , and you may write your letter whenever you choose . 
Would it make you happy to write to William ? Yes , very . 
Then let it be done now . 
Come with me into the breakfast room , we shall find everything there , and be sure of having the room to ourselves . 
My uncle ! repeated Fanny , with a frightened look . 
Yes , when you have written the letter , I will take it to my father to frank . 
He wrote with his own hand his love to his cousin William , and sent him half a guinea under the seal . 
From this day Fanny grew more comfortable . 
She felt that she had a friend , and the kindness of her cousin Edmund gave her better spirits with everybody else . 
To her cousins she became occasionally an acceptable companion . 
He was just entering into life , full of spirits , and with all the liberal dispositions of an eldest son , who feels born only for expense and enjoyment . 
His kindness to his little cousin was consistent with his situation and rights he made her some very pretty presents , and laughed at her . 
A mean opinion of her abilities was not confined to them . 
She thinks of nothing but the Isle of Wight , and she calls it the Island , as if there were no other island in the world . 
I am sure I should have been ashamed of myself , if I had not known better long before I was so old as she is . 
I cannot remember the time when I did not know a great deal that she has not the least notion of yet . 
Very true indeed , my dears , but you are blessed with wonderful memories , and your poor cousin has probably none at all . 
There is a vast deal of difference in memories , as well as in everything else , and therefore you must make allowance for your cousin , and pity her deficiency . 
Yes , I know there is , till I am seventeen . 
But I must tell you another thing of Fanny , so odd and so stupid . 
Do you know , she says she does not want to learn either music or drawing . 
To be sure , my dear , that is very stupid indeed , and shows a great want of genius and emulation . 
In everything but disposition they were admirably taught . 
To the education of her daughters Lady Bertram paid not the smallest attention . 
She had not time for such cares . 
His eldest son was careless and extravagant , and had already given him much uneasiness but his other children promised him nothing but good . 
He was to be a clergyman . 
Once , and once only , in the course of many years , had she the happiness of being with William . 
Edmund's friendship never failed her his leaving Eton for Oxford made no change in his kind dispositions , and only afforded more frequent opportunities of proving them . 
In return for such services she loved him better than anybody in the world except William her heart was divided between the two . 
CHAPTER III The first event of any importance in the family was the death of Mr. Norris , which happened when Fanny was about fifteen , and necessarily introduced alterations and novelties . 
You have robbed Edmund for ten , twenty , thirty years , perhaps for life , of more than half the income which ought to be his . 
On Mr. Norris's death the presentation became the right of a Dr . 
Grant , who came consequently to reside at Mansfield and on proving to be a hearty man of forty five , seemed likely to disappoint Mr. Bertram's calculations . 
But no , he was a short necked , apoplectic sort of fellow , and , plied well with good things , would soon pop off . 
He had a wife about fifteen years his junior , but no children and they entered the neighbourhood with the usual fair report of being very respectable , agreeable people . 
But you must come up and tack on my patterns all the same . 
The news was as disagreeable to Fanny as it had been unexpected . 
She had never received kindness from her aunt Norris , and could not love her . 
I shall be very sorry to go away , said she , with a faltering voice . 
Yes , I dare say you will that's natural enough . 
I suppose you have had as little to vex you since you came into this house as any creature in the world . 
I hope I am not ungrateful , aunt , said Fanny modestly . 
No , my dear I hope not . 
I have always found you a very good girl . 
And am I never to live here again ? Never , my dear but you are sure of a comfortable home . 
It can make very little difference to you , whether you are in one house or the other . 
Fanny left the room with a very sorrowful heart she could not feel the difference to be so small , she could not think of living with her aunt with anything like satisfaction . 
As soon as she met with Edmund she told him her distress . 
I am going to live entirely with my aunt Norris . 
Indeed ! Yes my aunt Bertram has just told me so . 
I am to leave Mansfield Park , and go to the White House , I suppose , as soon as she is removed there . 
Well , Fanny , and if the plan were not unpleasant to you , I should call it an excellent one . 
Oh , cousin ! It has everything else in its favour . 
My aunt is acting like a sensible woman in wishing for you . 
She is choosing a friend and companion exactly where she ought , and I am glad her love of money does not interfere . 
You will be what you ought to be to her . 
I hope it does not distress you very much , Fanny ? Indeed it does I cannot like it . 
I love this house and everything in it I shall love nothing there . 
You know how uncomfortable I feel with her . 
I can say nothing for her manner to you as a child but it was the same with us all , or nearly so . 
She never knew how to be pleasant to children . 
But you are now of an age to be treated better I think she is behaving better already and when you are her only companion , you must be important to her . 
I can never be important to any one . 
What is to prevent you ? Everything . 
My situation , my foolishness and awkwardness . 
As to your foolishness and awkwardness , my dear Fanny , believe me , you never have a shadow of either , but in using the words so improperly . 
There is no reason in the world why you should not be important where you are known . 
You have good sense , and a sweet temper , and I am sure you have a grateful heart , that could never receive kindness without wishing to return it . 
I do not know any better qualifications for a friend and companion . 
You are too kind , said Fanny , colouring at such praise how shall I ever thank you as I ought , for thinking so well of me . 
Oh ! cousin , if I am to go away , I shall remember your goodness to the last moment of my life . 
Why , indeed , Fanny , I should hope to be remembered at such a distance as the White House . 
You speak as if you were going two hundred miles off instead of only across the park but you will belong to us almost as much as ever . 
The two families will be meeting every day in the year . 
The only difference will be that , living with your aunt , you will necessarily be brought forward as you ought to be . 
Here there are too many whom you can hide behind but with her you will be forced to speak for yourself . 
Oh ! I do not say so . 
I must say it , and say it with pleasure . 
Mrs. Norris is much better fitted than my mother for having the charge of you now . 
She is of a temper to do a great deal for anybody she really interests herself about , and she will force you to do justice to your natural powers . 
If I could suppose my aunt really to care for me , it would be delightful to feel myself of consequence to anybody . 
Here , I know , I am of none , and yet I love the place so well . 
The place , Fanny , is what you will not quit , though you quit the house . 
You will have as free a command of the park and gardens as ever . 
Even your constant little heart need not take fright at such a nominal change . 
You will have the same walks to frequent , the same library to choose from , the same people to look at , the same horse to ride . 
It had never occurred to her , on the present occasion , but as a thing to be carefully avoided . 
The spare rooms at the Parsonage had never been wanted , but the absolute necessity of a spare room for a friend was now never forgotten . 
Live with me , dear Lady Bertram ! what do you mean ? Is she not to live with you ? I thought you had settled it with Sir Thomas . 
I never spoke a syllable about it to Sir Thomas , nor he to me . 
Fanny live with me ! the last thing in the world for me to think of , or for anybody to wish that really knows us both . 
Nobody that wishes me well , I am sure , would propose it . 
How came Sir Thomas to speak to you about it ? Indeed , I do not know . 
I suppose he thought it best . 
But what did he say ? He could not say he wished me to take Fanny . 
I am sure in his heart he could not wish me to do it . 
No he only said he thought it very likely and I thought so too . 
We both thought it would be a comfort to you . 
But if you do not like it , there is no more to be said . 
She is no encumbrance here . 
She is in good hands , and sure of doing well . 
I must struggle through my sorrows and difficulties as I can . 
Then you will not mind living by yourself quite alone ? Lady Bertram , I do not complain . 
I know I cannot live as I have done , but I must retrench where I can , and learn to be a better manager . 
I have been a liberal housekeeper enough , but I shall not be ashamed to practise economy now . 
My situation is as much altered as my income . 
A great many things were due from poor Mr. Norris , as clergyman of the parish , that cannot be expected from me . 
It is unknown how much was consumed in our kitchen by odd comers and goers . 
At the White House , matters must be better looked after . 
I dare say you will . 
You always do , don't you ? My object , Lady Bertram , is to be of use to those that come after me . 
It is for your children's good that I wish to be richer . 
I have nobody else to care for , but I should be very glad to think I could leave a little trifle among them worth their having . 
You are very good , but do not trouble yourself about them . 
They are sure of being well provided for . 
Sir Thomas will take care of that . 
Why , you know , Sir Thomas's means will be rather straitened if the Antigua estate is to make such poor returns . 
Oh ! that will soon be settled . 
Sir Thomas has been writing about it , I know . 
Mrs. Norris took possession of the White House , the Grants arrived at the Parsonage , and these events over , everything at Mansfield went on for some time as usual . 
The Grants showing a disposition to be friendly and sociable , gave great satisfaction in the main among their new acquaintance . 
They had their faults , and Mrs. Norris soon found them out . 
Mrs. Norris could not speak with any temper of such grievances , nor of the quantity of butter and eggs that were regularly consumed in the house . 
A fine lady in a country parsonage was quite out of place . 
Her store room , she thought , might have been good enough for Mrs. Grant to go into . 
Inquire where she would , she could not find out that Mrs. Grant had ever had more than five thousand pounds . 
Lady Bertram listened without much interest to this sort of invective . 
These opinions had been hardly canvassed a year before another event arose of such importance in the family , as might fairly claim some place in the thoughts and conversation of the ladies . 
They left England with the probability of being nearly a twelvemonth absent . 
The Miss Bertrams were much to be pitied on the occasion not for their sorrow , but for their want of it . 
Their father was no object of love to them he had never seemed the friend of their pleasures , and his absence was unhappily most welcome . 
She cried bitterly over this reflection when her uncle was gone and her cousins , on seeing her with red eyes , set her down as a hypocrite . 
Lady Bertram did not go into public with her daughters . 
Upon the whole , it was a comfortable winter to her for though it brought no William to England , the never failing hope of his arrival was worth much . 
Edmund was absent at this time , or the evil would have been earlier remedied . 
Grant might now and then lend them the pony he sent to the post . 
She could not but consider it as absolutely unnecessary , and even improper , that Fanny should have a regular lady's horse of her own , in the style of her cousins . 
Fanny must have a horse , was Edmund's only reply . 
Mrs. Norris could not see it in the same light . 
He had three horses of his own , but not one that would carry a woman . 
The new mare proved a treasure with a very little trouble she became exactly calculated for the purpose , and Fanny was then put in almost full possession of her . 
Her sentiments towards him were compounded of all that was respectful , grateful , confiding , and tender . 
Mr. Rushworth was from the first struck with the beauty of Miss Bertram , and , being inclined to marry , soon fancied himself in love . 
It was not long before a good understanding took place between this lady and herself . 
Mrs. Norris accepted the compliment , and admired the nice discernment of character which could so well distinguish merit . 
Edmund was the only one of the family who could see a fault in the business but no representation of his aunt's could induce him to find Mr. Rushworth a desirable companion . 
Sir Thomas , however , was truly happy in the prospect of an alliance so unquestionably advantageous , and of which he heard nothing but the perfectly good and agreeable . 
It was a connexion exactly of the right sort in the same county , and the same interest and his most hearty concurrence was conveyed as soon as possible . 
He only conditioned that the marriage should not take place before his return , which he was again looking eagerly forward to . 
He wrote in April , and had strong hopes of settling everything to his entire satisfaction , and leaving Antigua before the end of the summer . 
They were young people of fortune . 
The son had a good estate in Norfolk , the daughter twenty thousand pounds . 
In their uncle's house they had found a kind home . 
The meeting was very satisfactory on each side . 
While she treated it as a joke , therefore , she did not forget to think of it seriously . 
The scheme was soon repeated to Henry . 
And now , added Mrs. Grant , I have thought of something to make it complete . 
Henry bowed and thanked her . 
If you can persuade Henry to marry , you must have the address of a Frenchwoman . 
All that English abilities can do has been tried already . 
If your Miss Bertrams do not like to have their hearts broke , let them avoid Henry . 
My dear brother , I will not believe this of you . 
No , I am sure you are too good . 
You will be kinder than Mary . 
You will allow for the doubts of youth and inexperience . 
I am of a cautious temper , and unwilling to risk my happiness in a hurry . 
Nobody can think more highly of the matrimonial state than myself I consider the blessing of a wife as most justly described in those discreet lines of the poet 'Heaven's last best gift . 
There , Mrs. Grant , you see how he dwells on one word , and only look at his smile . 
I assure you he is very detestable the Admiral's lessons have quite spoiled him . 
I pay very little regard , said Mrs. Grant , to what any young person says on the subject of marriage . 
If they profess a disinclination for it , I only set it down that they have not yet seen the right person . 
Grant laughingly congratulated Miss Crawford on feeling no disinclination to the state herself . 
Oh yes ! I am not at all ashamed of it . 
CHAPTER V The young people were pleased with each other from the first . 
On each side there was much to attract , and their acquaintance soon promised as early an intimacy as good manners would warrant . 
Miss Crawford's beauty did her no disservice with the Miss Bertrams . 
Her brother was not handsome no , when they first saw him he was absolutely plain , black and plain but still he was the gentleman , with a pleasing address . 
He was , in fact , the most agreeable young man the sisters had ever known , and they were equally delighted with him . 
Maria's notions on the subject were more confused and indistinct . 
She did not want to see or understand . 
There could be no harm in her liking an agreeable man everybody knew her situation Mr. Crawford must take care of himself . 
He did not want them to die of love but with sense and temper which ought to have made him judge and feel better , he allowed himself great latitude on such points . 
I like your Miss Bertrams exceedingly , sister , said he , as he returned from attending them to their carriage after the said dinner visit they are very elegant , agreeable girls . 
So they are indeed , and I am delighted to hear you say it . 
But you like Julia best . 
Oh yes ! I like Julia best . 
But do you really ? for Miss Bertram is in general thought the handsomest . 
I shall not talk to you , Henry , but I know you will like her best at last . 
Do not I tell you that I like her best at first ? And besides , Miss Bertram is engaged . 
Remember that , my dear brother . 
Yes , and I like her the better for it . 
An engaged woman is always more agreeable than a disengaged . 
She is satisfied with herself . 
Her cares are over , and she feels that she may exert all her powers of pleasing without suspicion . 
All is safe with a lady engaged no harm can be done . 
Why , as to that , Mr. Rushworth is a very good sort of young man , and it is a great match for her . 
But Miss Bertram does not care three straws for him that is your opinion of your intimate friend . 
I do not subscribe to it . 
I am sure Miss Bertram is very much attached to Mr. Rushworth . 
I could see it in her eyes , when he was mentioned . 
I think too well of Miss Bertram to suppose she would ever give her hand without her heart . 
Mary , how shall we manage him ? We must leave him to himself , I believe . 
He will be taken in at last . 
But I would not have him taken in I would not have him duped I would have it all fair and honourable . 
Oh dear ! let him stand his chance and be taken in . 
It will do just as well . 
Everybody is taken in at some period or other . 
Not always in marriage , dear Mary . 
Ah ! You have been in a bad school for matrimony , in Hill Street . 
My poor aunt had certainly little cause to love the state but , however , speaking from my own observation , it is a manoeuvring business . 
What is this but a take in ? My dear child , there must be a little imagination here . 
I beg your pardon , but I cannot quite believe you . 
Depend upon it , you see but half . 
You see the evil , but you do not see the consolation . 
Well done , sister ! I honour your esprit du corps . 
When I am a wife , I mean to be just as staunch myself and I wish my friends in general would be so too . 
It would save me many a heartache . 
You are as bad as your brother , Mary but we will cure you both . 
Mansfield shall cure you both , and without any taking in . 
Stay with us , and we will cure you . 
The Crawfords , without wanting to be cured , were very willing to stay . 
Mary was satisfied with the Parsonage as a present home , and Henry equally ready to lengthen his visit . 
He had come , intending to spend only a few days with them but Mansfield promised well , and there was nothing to call him elsewhere . 
It delighted Mrs. Grant to keep them both with her , and Dr . 
The Miss Bertrams' admiration of Mr. Crawford was more rapturous than anything which Miss Crawford's habits made her likely to feel . 
She had felt an early presentiment that she should like the eldest best . 
She knew it was her way . 
Miss Crawford soon felt that he and his situation might do . 
It might do very well she believed she should accept him and she began accordingly to interest herself a little about the horse which he had to run at the B races . 
The notice , which she excited herself , was to this effect . 
I begin now to understand you all , except Miss Price , said Miss Crawford , as she was walking with the Mr. Bertrams . 
Pray , is she out , or is she not ? I am puzzled . 
She dined at the Parsonage , with the rest of you , which seemed like being out and yet she says so little , that I can hardly suppose she is . 
Edmund , to whom this was chiefly addressed , replied , I believe I know what you mean , but I will not undertake to answer the question . 
My cousin is grown up . 
She has the age and sense of a woman , but the outs and not outs are beyond me . 
And yet , in general , nothing can be more easily ascertained . 
The distinction is so broad . 
Manners as well as appearance are , generally speaking , so totally different . 
Till now , I could not have supposed it possible to be mistaken as to a girl's being out or not . 
A girl not out has always the same sort of dress a close bonnet , for instance looks very demure , and never says a word . 
You may smile , but it is so , I assure you and except that it is sometimes carried a little too far , it is all very proper . 
Girls should be quiet and modest . 
The most objectionable part is , that the alteration of manners on being introduced into company is frequently too sudden . 
They sometimes pass in such very little time from reserve to quite the opposite to confidence ! That is the faulty part of the present system . 
One does not like to see a girl of eighteen or nineteen so immediately up to every thing and perhaps when one has seen her hardly able to speak the year before . 
Mr. Bertram , I dare say you have sometimes met with such changes . 
I believe I have , but this is hardly fair I see what you are at . 
You are quizzing me and Miss Anderson . 
Miss Anderson ! I do not know who or what you mean . 
I am quite in the dark . 
But I will quiz you with a great deal of pleasure , if you will tell me what about . 
Ah ! you carry it off very well , but I cannot be quite so far imposed on . 
You must have had Miss Anderson in your eye , in describing an altered young lady . 
You paint too accurately for mistake . 
The Andersons of Baker Street . 
We were speaking of them the other day , you know . 
Edmund , you have heard me mention Charles Anderson . 
The circumstance was precisely as this lady has represented it . 
When Anderson first introduced me to his family , about two years ago , his sister was not out , and I could not get her to speak to me . 
I met her at Mrs. Holford's , and did not recollect her . 
She came up to me , claimed me as an acquaintance , stared me out of countenance and talked and laughed till I did not know which way to look . 
I felt that I must be the jest of the room at the time , and Miss Crawford , it is plain , has heard the story . 
And a very pretty story it is , and with more truth in it , I dare say , than does credit to Miss Anderson . 
It is too common a fault . 
Mothers certainly have not yet got quite the right way of managing their daughters . 
I do not know where the error lies . 
I do not pretend to set people right , but I do see that they are often wrong . 
Those who are showing the world what female manners should be , said Mr. Bertram gallantly , are doing a great deal to set them right . 
The error is plain enough , said the less courteous Edmund such girls are ill brought up . 
They are given wrong notions from the beginning . 
They are always acting upon motives of vanity , and there is no more real modesty in their behaviour before they appear in public than afterwards . 
I do not know , replied Miss Crawford hesitatingly . 
Yes , I cannot agree with you there . 
It is certainly the modestest part of the business . 
It is much worse to have girls not out give themselves the same airs and take the same liberties as if they were , which I have seen done . 
That is worse than anything quite disgusting ! Yes , that is very inconvenient indeed , said Mr. Bertram . 
It leads one astray one does not know what to do . 
, tell one what is expected but I got into a dreadful scrape last year from the want of them . 
I went down to Ramsgate for a week with a friend last September , just after my return from the West Indies . 
My friend Sneyd you have heard me speak of Sneyd , Edmund his father , and mother , and sisters , were there , all new to me . 
When we reached Albion Place they were out we went after them , and found them on the pier Mrs. and the two Miss Sneyds , with others of their acquaintance . 
I had not a suspicion that I could be doing anything wrong . 
Miss Augusta ought not to have been noticed for the next six months and Miss Sneyd , I believe , has never forgiven me . 
Though I have no younger sister , I feel for her . 
To be neglected before one's time must be very vexatious but it was entirely the mother's fault . 
Miss Augusta should have been with her governess . 
Such half and half doings never prosper . 
But now I must be satisfied about Miss Price . 
My mother seldom goes into company herself , and dines nowhere but with Mrs. Grant , and Fanny stays at home with her . 
Oh ! then the point is clear . 
Miss Price is not out . 
It would be a very flat business , she was sure . 
In comparison with his brother , Edmund would have nothing to say . 
The subject had been already handled in the drawing room it was revived in the dining parlour . 
I wish you could see Compton , said he it is the most complete thing ! I never saw a place so altered in my life . 
I told Smith I did not know where I was . 
The approach now , is one of the finest things in the country you see the house in the most surprising manner . 
I declare , when I got back to Sotherton yesterday , it looked like a prison quite a dismal old prison . 
Oh , for shame ! cried Mrs. Norris . 
A prison indeed ? Sotherton Court is the noblest old place in the world . 
It wants improvement , ma'am , beyond anything . 
I never saw a place that wanted so much improvement in my life and it is so forlorn that I do not know what can be done with it . 
I must try to do something with it , said Mr. Rushworth , but I do not know what . 
I hope I shall have some good friend to help me . 
Your best friend upon such an occasion , said Miss Bertram calmly , would be Mr. Repton , I imagine . 
That is what I was thinking of . 
As he has done so well by Smith , I think I had better have him at once . 
His terms are five guineas a day . 
Well , and if they were ten , cried Mrs. Norris , I am sure you need not regard it . 
The expense need not be any impediment . 
If I were you , I should not think of the expense . 
I would have everything done in the best style , and made as nice as possible . 
Such a place as Sotherton Court deserves everything that taste and money can do . 
You have space to work upon there , and grounds that will well reward you . 
It would be too ridiculous for me to attempt anything where I am now , with my little half acre . 
It would be quite a burlesque . 
But if I had more room , I should take a prodigious delight in improving and planting . 
We did a vast deal in that way at the Parsonage we made it quite a different place from what it was when we first had it . 
He could hardly ever get out , poor man , to enjoy anything , and that disheartened me from doing several things that Sir Thomas and I used to talk of . 
If it had not been for that , we should have carried on the garden wall , and made the plantation to shut out the churchyard , just as Dr . 
We were always doing something as it was . 
The tree thrives well , beyond a doubt , madam , replied Dr . 
The soil is good and I never pass it without regretting that the fruit should be so little worth the trouble of gathering . 
You were imposed on , ma'am , replied Dr . 
Grant these potatoes have as much the flavour of a Moor Park apricot as the fruit from that tree . 
It is an insipid fruit at the best but a good apricot is eatable , which none from my garden are . 
The truth is , ma'am , said Mrs. Grant , pretending to whisper across the table to Mrs. Norris , that Dr . 
Mrs. Norris , who had begun to redden , was appeased and , for a little while , other subjects took place of the improvements of Sotherton . 
Grant and Mrs. Norris were seldom good friends their acquaintance had begun in dilapidations , and their habits were totally dissimilar . 
After a short interruption Mr. Rushworth began again . 
Smith's place is the admiration of all the country and it was a mere nothing before Repton took it in hand . 
I think I shall have Repton . 
Mr. Rushworth , said Lady Bertram , if I were you , I would have a very pretty shrubbery . 
One likes to get out into a shrubbery in fine weather . 
Mr. Rushworth , however , though not usually a great talker , had still more to say on the subject next his heart . 
Smith has not much above a hundred acres altogether in his grounds , which is little enough , and makes it more surprising that the place can have been so improved . 
But Miss Bertram thought it most becoming to reply The avenue ! Oh ! I do not recollect it . 
I really know very little of Sotherton . 
He smiled as he answered , I am afraid the avenue stands a bad chance , Fanny . 
I should like to see Sotherton before it is cut down , to see the place as it is now , in its old state but I do not suppose I shall . 
Have you never been there ? No , you never can and , unluckily , it is out of distance for a ride . 
I wish we could contrive it . 
Oh ! it does not signify . 
Whenever I do see it , you will tell me how it has been altered . 
I collect , said Miss Crawford , that Sotherton is an old place , and a place of some grandeur . 
It stands in one of the lowest spots of the park in that respect , unfavourable for improvement . 
But the woods are fine , and there is a stream , which , I dare say , might be made a good deal of . 
Mr. Rushworth is quite right , I think , in meaning to give it a modern dress , and I have no doubt that it will be all done extremely well . 
Miss Crawford listened with submission , and said to herself , He is a well bred man he makes the best of it . 
I do not wish to influence Mr. Rushworth , he continued but , had I a place to new fashion , I should not put myself into the hands of an improver . 
I would rather have an inferior degree of beauty , of my own choice , and acquired progressively . 
I would rather abide by my own blunders than by his . 
You would know what you were about , of course but that would not suit me . 
It would be delightful to me to see the progress of it all , said Fanny . 
Ay , you have been brought up to it . 
I would have everything as complete as possible in the country , shrubberies and flower gardens , and rustic seats innumerable but it must all be done without my care . 
Henry is different he loves to be doing . 
Edmund was sorry to hear Miss Crawford , whom he was much disposed to admire , speak so freely of her uncle . 
It did not suit his sense of propriety , and he was silenced , till induced by further smiles and liveliness to put the matter by for the present . 
Mr. Bertram , said she , I have tidings of my harp at last . 
I am assured that it is safe at Northampton and there it has probably been these ten days , in spite of the solemn assurances we have so often received to the contrary . 
Edmund expressed his pleasure and surprise . 
It was seen by some farmer , and he told the miller , and the miller told the butcher , and the butcher's son in law left word at the shop . 
I am very glad that you have heard of it , by whatever means , and hope there will be no further delay . 
I might as well have asked for porters and a handbarrow . 
You could not be expected to have thought on the subject before but when you do think of it , you must see the importance of getting in the grass . 
However , I am to have my harp fetched to morrow . 
Henry , who is good nature itself , has offered to fetch it in his barouche . 
Will it not be honourably conveyed ? Edmund spoke of the harp as his favourite instrument , and hoped to be soon allowed to hear her . 
Fanny had never heard the harp at all , and wished for it very much . 
Now , Mr. Bertram , if you write to your brother , I entreat you to tell him that my harp is come he heard so much of my misery about it . 
If I write , I will say whatever you wish me but I do not , at present , foresee any occasion for writing . 
No , I dare say , nor if he were to be gone a twelvemonth , would you ever write to him , nor he to you , if it could be helped . 
The occasion would never be foreseen . 
You have but one style among you . 
Bath seems full , and everything as usual . 
That is the true manly style that is a complete brother's letter . 
When they are at a distance from all their family , said Fanny , colouring for William's sake , they can write long letters . 
Miss Price has a brother at sea , said Edmund , whose excellence as a correspondent makes her think you too severe upon us . 
Miss Crawford civilly wished him an early promotion . 
Post captains may be very good sort of men , but they do not belong to us . 
Of various admirals I could tell you a great deal of them and their flags , and the gradation of their pay , and their bickerings and jealousies . 
But , in general , I can assure you that they are all passed over , and all very ill used . 
Certainly , my home at my uncle's brought me acquainted with a circle of admirals . 
Of Rears and Vices I saw enough . 
Now do not be suspecting me of a pun , I entreat . 
Edmund again felt grave , and only replied , It is a noble profession . 
It has never worn an amiable form to me . 
Edmund reverted to the harp , and was again very happy in the prospect of hearing her play . 
My dear Henry , have you nothing to say ? You have been an improver yourself , and from what I hear of Everingham , it may vie with any place in England . 
Its natural beauties , I am sure , are great . 
You are fond of the sort of thing ? said Julia . 
My plan was laid at Westminster , a little altered , perhaps , at Cambridge , and at one and twenty executed . 
I am inclined to envy Mr. Rushworth for having so much happiness yet before him . 
I have been a devourer of my own . 
Those who see quickly , will resolve quickly , and act quickly , said Julia . 
You can never want employment . 
Instead of envying Mr. Rushworth , you should assist him with your opinion . 
Lady Bertram made no objection and every one concerned in the going was forward in expressing their ready concurrence , excepting Edmund , who heard it all and said nothing . 
CHAPTER VII Well , Fanny , and how do you like Miss Crawford now ? said Edmund the next day , after thinking some time on the subject himself . 
How did you like her yesterday ? Very well very much . 
I like to hear her talk . 
She entertains me and she is so extremely pretty , that I have great pleasure in looking at her . 
It is her countenance that is so attractive . 
I could not have believed it ! I thought you would be struck . 
It was very wrong very indecorous . 
And very ungrateful , I think . 
Ungrateful is a strong word . 
I do not know that her uncle has any claim to her gratitude his wife certainly had and it is the warmth of her respect for her aunt's memory which misleads her here . 
With such warm feelings and lively spirits it must be difficult to do justice to her affection for Mrs. Crawford , without throwing a shade on the Admiral . 
I do not censure her opinions but there certainly is impropriety in making them public . 
That is a fair remark . 
Yes , we must suppose the faults of the niece to have been those of the aunt and it makes one more sensible of the disadvantages she has been under . 
But I think her present home must do her good . 
Mrs. Grant's manners are just what they ought to be . 
She speaks of her brother with a very pleasing affection . 
Yes , except as to his writing her such short letters . 
I am sure William would never have used me so , under any circumstances . 
She is perfectly feminine , except m the instances we have been speaking of . 
There she cannot be justified . 
I am glad you saw it all as I did . 
Miss Crawford's attractions did not lessen . 
The season , the scene , the air , were all favourable to tenderness and sentiment . 
Grant doing the honours of it , were worth looking at . 
There was a charm , perhaps , in his sincerity , his steadiness , his integrity , which Miss Crawford might be equal to feel , though not equal to discuss with herself . 
She did not think very much about it , however he pleased her for the present she liked to have him near her it was enough . 
No pain , no injury , however , was designed by him to his cousin in this offer she was not to lose a day's exercise by it . 
Miss Crawford made her first essay with great credit to herself , and no inconvenience to Fanny . 
The second day's trial was not so guiltless . 
Miss Crawford's enjoyment of riding was such that she did not know how to leave off . 
Fanny was ready and waiting , and Mrs. Norris was beginning to scold her for not being gone , and still no horse was announced , no Edmund appeared . 
To avoid her aunt , and look for him , she went out . 
Grant's meadow she immediately saw the group Edmund and Miss Crawford both on horse back , riding side by side , Dr . 
and Mrs. Grant , and Mr. Crawford , with two or three grooms , standing about and looking on . 
A happy party it appeared to her , all interested in one object cheerful beyond a doubt , for the sound of merriment ascended even to her . 
It was a sound which did not make her cheerful she wondered that Edmund should forget her , and felt a pang . 
She could not turn her eyes from the meadow she could not help watching all that passed . 
After a few minutes they stopped entirely . 
She began to think it rather hard upon the mare to have such double duty if she were forgotten , the poor mare should be remembered . 
She began then to be afraid of appearing rude and impatient and walked to meet them with a great anxiety to avoid the suspicion . 
Selfishness must always be forgiven , you know , because there is no hope of a cure . 
Fanny's answer was extremely civil , and Edmund added his conviction that she could be in no hurry . 
I wish you may not be fatigued by so much exercise . 
I wish you had saved yourself this walk home . 
No part of it fatigues me but getting off this horse , I assure you , said she , as she sprang down with his help I am very strong . 
Nothing ever fatigues me but doing what I do not like . 
It is a pleasure to see a lady with such a good heart for riding ! said he . 
I never see one sit a horse better . 
She did not seem to have a thought of fear . 
Very different from you , miss , when you first began , six years ago come next Easter . 
Lord bless you ! how you did tremble when Sir Thomas first had you put on ! In the drawing room Miss Crawford was also celebrated . 
I was sure she would ride well , said Julia she has the make for it . 
Her figure is as neat as her brother's . 
Yes , added Maria , and her spirits are as good , and she has the same energy of character . 
I cannot but think that good horsemanship has a great deal to do with the mind . 
When they parted at night Edmund asked Fanny whether she meant to ride the next day . 
No , I do not know not if you want the mare , was her answer . 
But any morning will do for this . 
She would be extremely sorry to interfere with you . 
It would be very wrong if she did . 
She rides only for pleasure you for health . 
I shall not ride to morrow , certainly , said Fanny I have been out very often lately , and would rather stay at home . 
You know I am strong enough now to walk very well . 
A successful scheme of this sort generally brings on another and the having been to Mansfield Common disposed them all for going somewhere else the day after . 
There were many other views to be shewn and though the weather was hot , there were shady lanes wherever they wanted to go . 
A young party is always provided with a shady lane . 
Four fine mornings successively were spent in this manner , in shewing the Crawfords the country , and doing the honours of its finest spots . 
Miss Bertram was the one . 
Edmund and Julia were invited to dine at the Parsonage , and she was excluded . 
Her own gentle voice speaking from the other end of the room , which was a very long one , told them that she was on the sofa . 
That is a very foolish trick , Fanny , to be idling away all the evening upon a sofa . 
Why cannot you come and sit here , and employ yourself as we do ? If you have no work of your own , I can supply you from the poor basket . 
There is all the new calico , that was bought last week , not touched yet . 
I am sure I almost broke my back by cutting it out . 
You should learn to think of other people and , take my word for it , it is a shocking trick for a young person to be always lolling upon a sofa . 
Fanny , said Edmund , after looking at her attentively , I am sure you have the headache . 
She could not deny it , but said it was not very bad . 
I can hardly believe you , he replied I know your looks too well . 
How long have you had it ? Since a little before dinner . 
It is nothing but the heat . 
Yes , indeed , Edmund , added her ladyship , who had been thoroughly awakened by Mrs. Norris's sharp reprimand to Fanny I was out above an hour . 
I sat three quarters of an hour in the flower garden , while Fanny cut the roses and very pleasant it was , I assure you , but very hot . 
It was shady enough in the alcove , but I declare I quite dreaded the coming home again . 
Fanny has been cutting roses , has she ? Yes , and I am afraid they will be the last this year . 
Poor thing ! She found it hot enough but they were so full blown that one could not wait . 
There was no help for it , certainly , rejoined Mrs. Norris , in a rather softened voice but I question whether her headache might not be caught then , sister . 
There is nothing so likely to give it as standing and stooping in a hot sun but I dare say it will be well to morrow . 
Suppose you let her have your aromatic vinegar I always forget to have mine filled . 
She has got it , said Lady Bertram she has had it ever since she came back from your house the second time . 
Mrs. Norris was talking to Julia , and did not hear . 
I think nobody can justly accuse me of sparing myself upon any occasion , but really I cannot do everything at once . 
And as for Fanny's just stepping down to my house for me it is not much above a quarter of a mile I cannot think I was unreasonable to ask it . 
If Fanny would be more regular in her exercise , she would not be knocked up so soon . 
She has not been out on horseback now this long while , and I am persuaded that , when she does not ride , she ought to walk . 
If she had been riding before , I should not have asked it of her . 
Between ourselves , Edmund , nodding significantly at his mother , it was cutting the roses , and dawdling about in the flower garden , that did the mischief . 
It was as much as I could bear myself . 
Sitting and calling to Pug , and trying to keep him from the flower beds , was almost too much for me . 
She wished to be able to decline it but the tears , which a variety of feelings created , made it easier to swallow than to speak . 
Vexed as Edmund was with his mother and aunt , he was still more angry with himself . 
His own forgetfulness of her was worse than anything which they had done . 
Fanny went to bed with her heart as full as on the first evening of her arrival at the Park . 
The state of her spirits had probably had its share in her indisposition for she had been feeling neglected , and been struggling against discontent and envy for some days past . 
Before his return Mrs. Grant and Miss Crawford came in . 
Having been out some time , and taken a different route to the house , they had not met him . 
Comfortable hopes , however , were given that he would find Mr. Crawford at home . 
The Sotherton scheme was mentioned of course . 
The fatigue would be too much for my sister , a great deal too much , I assure you , my dear Mrs. Rushworth . 
Ten miles there , and ten back , you know . 
You must excuse my sister on this occasion , and accept of our two dear girls and myself without her . 
Sotherton is the only place that could give her a wish to go so far , but it cannot be , indeed . 
He can go on horseback , you know . 
Mrs. Rushworth being obliged to yield to Lady Bertram's staying at home , could only be sorry . 
You are very kind , you are all kindness , my dear madam , cried Mrs. Norris but as to Fanny , she will have opportunities in plenty of seeing Sotherton . 
She has time enough before her and her going now is quite out of the question . 
Lady Bertram could not possibly spare her . 
Oh no ! I cannot do without Fanny . 
The Miss Bertrams laughed at the idea , assuring her that the barouche would hold four perfectly well , independent of the box , on which one might go with him . 
Besides , said Maria , I know that Mr. Crawford depends upon taking us . 
After what passed at first , he would claim it as a promise . 
I will answer for it that we shall find no inconvenience from narrow roads on Wednesday . 
There is no hardship , I suppose , nothing unpleasant , said Edmund , in going on the barouche box . 
Unpleasant ! cried Maria oh dear ! I believe it would be generally thought the favourite seat . 
There can be no comparison as to one's view of the country . 
Probably Miss Crawford will choose the barouche box herself . 
There can be no objection , then , to Fanny's going with you there can be no doubt of your having room for her . 
Fanny ! repeated Mrs. Norris my dear Edmund , there is no idea of her going with us . 
She stays with her aunt . 
I told Mrs. Rushworth so . 
If you could do without her , you would not wish to keep her at home ? To be sure not , but I cannot do without her . 
You can , if I stay at home with you , as I mean to do . 
There was a general cry out at this . 
Yes , he continued , there is no necessity for my going , and I mean to stay at home . 
Fanny has a great desire to see Sotherton . 
I know she wishes it very much . 
She felt that she had arranged everything extremely well , and that any alteration must be for the worse . 
It seems very odd , said Maria , that you should be staying at home instead of Fanny . 
Fanny will feel quite as grateful as the occasion requires , was Edmund's only reply , and the subject dropt . 
Fanny's gratitude , when she heard the plan , was , in fact , much greater than her pleasure . 
The next meeting of the two Mansfield families produced another alteration in the plan , and one that was admitted with general approbation . 
Mrs. Grant offered herself as companion for the day to Lady Bertram in lieu of her son , and Dr . 
Grant was to join them at dinner . 
Lady Bertram was very well pleased to have it so , and the young ladies were in spirits again . 
The place of all places , the envied seat , the post of honour , was unappropriated . 
She was not often invited to join in the conversation of the others , nor did she desire it . 
That was the only point of resemblance between her and the lady who sat by her in everything but a value for Edmund , Miss Crawford was very unlike her . 
When they came within the influence of Sotherton associations , it was better for Miss Bertram , who might be said to have two strings to her bow . 
She had Rushworth feelings , and Crawford feelings , and in the vicinity of Sotherton the former had considerable effect . 
Mr. Rushworth's consequence was hers . 
Now we shall have no more rough road , Miss Crawford our difficulties are over . 
The rest of the way is such as it ought to be . 
Mr. Rushworth has made it since he succeeded to the estate . 
Those cottages are really a disgrace . 
The church spire is reckoned remarkably handsome . 
I am glad the church is not so close to the great house as often happens in old places . 
The annoyance of the bells must be terrible . 
There is the parsonage a tidy looking house , and I understand the clergyman and his wife are very decent people . 
Those are almshouses , built by some of the family . 
To the right is the steward's house he is a very respectable man . 
Now we are coming to the lodge gates but we have nearly a mile through the park still . 
It is not ugly , you see , at this end there is some fine timber , but the situation of the house is dreadful . 
We go down hill to it for half a mile , and it is a pity , for it would not be an ill looking place if it had a better approach . 
Miss Crawford was not slow to admire she pretty well guessed Miss Bertram's feelings , and made it a point of honour to promote her enjoyment to the utmost . 
Mrs. Norris was all delight and volubility and even Fanny had something to say in admiration , and might be heard with complacency . 
The avenue , therefore , must be at the back of it . 
Mr. Rushworth talked of the west front . 
Yes , it is exactly behind the house begins at a little distance , and ascends for half a mile to the extremity of the grounds . 
You may see something of it here something of the more distant trees . 
CHAPTER IX Mr. Rushworth was at the door to receive his fair lady and the whole party were welcomed by him with due attention . 
In the drawing room they were met with equal cordiality by the mother , and Miss Bertram had all the distinction with each that she could wish . 
Much was said , and much was ate , and all went well . 
The particular object of the day was then considered . 
How would Mr. Crawford like , in what manner would he chuse , to take a survey of the grounds ? Mr. Rushworth mentioned his curricle . 
Mr. Crawford suggested the greater desirableness of some carriage which might convey more than two . 
To be depriving themselves of the advantage of other eyes and other judgments , might be an evil even beyond the loss of present pleasure . 
Mrs. Rushworth proposed that the chaise should be taken also but this was scarcely received as an amendment the young ladies neither smiled nor spoke . 
Every room on the west front looked across a lawn to the beginning of the avenue immediately beyond tall iron palisades and gates . 
I am disappointed , said she , in a low voice , to Edmund . 
This is not my idea of a chapel . 
There is nothing awful here , nothing melancholy , nothing grand . 
Here are no aisles , no arches , no inscriptions , no banners . 
No banners , cousin , to be 'blown by the night wind of heaven . 
No signs that a 'Scottish monarch sleeps below . 
You forget , Fanny , how lately all this has been built , and for how confined a purpose , compared with the old chapels of castles and monasteries . 
It was only for the private use of the family . 
They have been buried , I suppose , in the parish church . 
There you must look for the banners and the achievements . 
It was foolish of me not to think of all that but I am disappointed . 
Mrs. Rushworth began her relation . 
This chapel was fitted up as you see it , in James the Second's time . 
It is a handsome chapel , and was formerly in constant use both morning and evening . 
Prayers were always read in it by the domestic chaplain , within the memory of many but the late Mr. Rushworth left it off . 
Every generation has its improvements , said Miss Crawford , with a smile , to Edmund . 
Mrs. Rushworth was gone to repeat her lesson to Mr. Crawford and Edmund , Fanny , and Miss Crawford remained in a cluster together . 
It is a pity , cried Fanny , that the custom should have been discontinued . 
It was a valuable part of former times . 
That is hardly Fanny's idea of a family assembling , said Edmund . 
If the master and mistress do not attend themselves , there must be more harm than good in the custom . 
At any rate , it is safer to leave people to their own devices on such subjects . 
Everybody likes to go their own way to chuse their own time and manner of devotion . 
For a few moments she was unanswered . 
You have given us an amusing sketch , and human nature cannot say it was not so . 
They would have two chances at least in their favour . 
There would be less to distract the attention from without , and it would not be tried so long . 
The greater length of the service , however , I admit to be sometimes too hard a stretch upon the mind . 
One wishes it were not so but I have not yet left Oxford long enough to forget what chapel prayers are . 
Julia , joining them at the moment , carried on the joke . 
How unlucky that you are not ordained Mr. Rushworth and Maria are quite ready . 
Miss Crawford's countenance , as Julia spoke , might have amused a disinterested observer . 
She looked almost aghast under the new idea she was receiving . 
How distressed she will be at what she said just now , passed across her mind . 
Ordained ! said Miss Crawford what , are you to be a clergyman ? Yes I shall take orders soon after my father's return probably at Christmas . 
The chapel was soon afterwards left to the silence and stillness which reigned in it , with few interruptions , throughout the year . 
Miss Bertram , displeased with her sister , led the way , and all seemed to feel that they had been there long enough . 
It is past two , and we are to dine at five . 
Suppose we turn down here for the present , said Mrs. Rushworth , civilly taking the hint and following them . 
Here are the greatest number of our plants , and here are the curious pheasants . 
Query , said Mr. Crawford , looking round him , whether we may not find something to employ us here before we go farther ? I see walls of great promise . 
Mr. Rushworth , shall we summon a council on this lawn ? James , said Mrs. Rushworth to her son , I believe the wilderness will be new to all the party . 
The Miss Bertrams have never seen the wilderness yet . 
No objection was made , but for some time there seemed no inclination to move in any plan , or to any distance . 
All were attracted at first by the plants or the pheasants , and all dispersed about in happy independence . 
Mr. Crawford was the first to move forward to examine the capabilities of that end of the house . 
It was a good spot for fault finding . 
Shall any of us object to being comfortable ? Here is a nice little wood , if one can but get into it . 
What happiness if the door should not be locked ! but of course it is for in these great places the gardeners are the only people who can go where they like . 
The door , however , proved not to be locked , and they were all agreed in turning joyfully through it , and leaving the unmitigated glare of day behind . 
They all felt the refreshment of it , and for some time could only walk and admire . 
At length , after a short pause , Miss Crawford began with , So you are to be a clergyman , Mr. Bertram . 
This is rather a surprise to me . 
Why should it surprise you ? You must suppose me designed for some profession , and might perceive that I am neither a lawyer , nor a soldier , nor a sailor . 
Very true but , in short , it had not occurred to me . 
And you know there is generally an uncle or a grandfather to leave a fortune to the second son . 
A very praiseworthy practice , said Edmund , but not quite universal . 
I am one of the exceptions , and being one , must do something for myself . 
'But why are you to be a clergyman ? I thought that was always the lot of the youngest , where there were many to chuse before him . 
Do you think the church itself never chosen , then ? Never is a black word . 
But yes , in the never of conversation , which means not very often , I do think it . 
For what is to be done in the church ? Men love to distinguish themselves , and in either of the other lines distinction may be gained , but not in the church . 
The nothing of conversation has its gradations , I hope , as well as the never . 
A clergyman cannot be high in state or fashion . 
He must not head mobs , or set the ton in dress . 
No one here can call the office nothing . 
You assign greater consequence to the clergyman than one has been used to hear given , or than I can quite comprehend . 
You are speaking of London , I am speaking of the nation at large . 
The metropolis , I imagine , is a pretty fair sample of the rest . 
Not , I should hope , of the proportion of virtue to vice throughout the kingdom . 
We do not look in great cities for our best morality . 
It is not there that respectable people of any denomination can do most good and it certainly is not there that the influence of the clergy can be most felt . 
The clergy are lost there in the crowds of their parishioners . 
They are known to the largest part only as preachers . 
Certainly , said Fanny , with gentle earnestness . 
There , cried Miss Crawford , you have quite convinced Miss Price already . 
I wish I could convince Miss Crawford too . 
You really are fit for something better . 
Come , do change your mind . 
It is not too late . 
Go into the law ! With as much ease as I was told to go into this wilderness . 
Now you are going to say something about law being the worst wilderness of the two , but I forestall you remember , I have forestalled you . 
You need not hurry when the object is only to prevent my saying a bon mot , for there is not the least wit in my nature . 
I am a very matter of fact , plain spoken being , and may blunder on the borders of a repartee for half an hour together without striking it out . 
My dear Fanny , cried Edmund , immediately drawing her arm within his , how thoughtless I have been ! I hope you are not very tired . 
Perhaps , turning to Miss Crawford , my other companion may do me the honour of taking an arm . 
Thank you , but I am not at all tired . 
You scarcely touch me , said he . 
You do not make me of any use . 
I am really not tired , which I almost wonder at for we must have walked at least a mile in this wood . 
Oh ! you do not consider how much we have wound about . 
But if you remember , before we left that first great path , we saw directly to the end of it . 
We looked down the whole vista , and saw it closed by iron gates , and it could not have been more than a furlong in length . 
We have been exactly a quarter of an hour here , said Edmund , taking out his watch . 
Do you think we are walking four miles an hour ? Oh ! do not attack me with your watch . 
A watch is always too fast or too slow . 
I cannot be dictated to by a watch . 
Every sort of exercise fatigues her so soon , Miss Crawford , except riding . 
Your attentiveness and consideration makes me more sensible of my own neglect . 
Fanny's interest seems in safer hands with you than with me . 
It is generally allowed to be the greatest bore in the world , and Miss Price has found it so , though she did not know it . 
I shall soon be rested , said Fanny to sit in the shade on a fine day , and look upon verdure , is the most perfect refreshment . 
After sitting a little while Miss Crawford was up again . 
I must move , said she resting fatigues me . 
I have looked across the ha ha till I am weary . 
I must go and look through that iron gate at the same view , without being able to see it so well . 
Edmund left the seat likewise . 
Now , Miss Crawford , if you will look up the walk , you will convince yourself that it cannot be half a mile long , or half half a mile . 
It is an immense distance , said she I see that with a glance . 
He still reasoned with her , but in vain . 
She would not calculate , she would not compare . 
She would only smile and assert . 
The greatest degree of rational consistency could not have been more engaging , and they talked with mutual satisfaction . 
At last it was agreed that they should endeavour to determine the dimensions of the wood by walking a little more about it . 
Fanny said she was rested , and would have moved too , but this was not suffered . 
She watched them till they had turned the corner , and listened till all sound of them had ceased . 
CHAPTER X A quarter of an hour , twenty minutes , passed away , and Fanny was still thinking of Edmund , Miss Crawford , and herself , without interruption from any one . 
She began to be surprised at being left so long , and to listen with an anxious desire of hearing their steps and their voices again . 
Miss Price all alone and My dear Fanny , how comes this ? were the first salutations . 
Poor dear Fanny , cried her cousin , how ill you have been used by them ! You had better have staid with us . 
Then seating herself with a gentleman on each side , she resumed the conversation which had engaged them before , and discussed the possibility of improvements with much animation . 
Go therefore they must to that knoll , and through that gate but the gate was locked . 
It is undoubtedly the best thing we can do now , as we are so far from the house already , said Mr. Crawford , when he was gone . 
Yes , there is nothing else to be done . 
But now , sincerely , do not you find the place altogether worse than you expected ? No , indeed , far otherwise . 
I find it better , grander , more complete in its style , though that style may not be the best . 
And to tell you the truth , speaking rather lower , I do not think that I shall ever see Sotherton again with so much pleasure as I do now . 
Another summer will hardly improve it to me . 
After a moment's embarrassment the lady replied , You are too much a man of the world not to see with the eyes of the world . 
If other people think Sotherton improved , I have no doubt that you will . 
I am afraid I am not quite so much the man of the world as might be good for me in some points . 
My feelings are not quite so evanescent , nor my memory of the past under such easy dominion as one finds to be the case with men of the world . 
This was followed by a short silence . 
You seemed to enjoy your drive here very much this morning . 
I was glad to see you so well entertained . 
You and Julia were laughing the whole way . 
Were we ? Yes , I believe we were but I have not the least recollection at what . 
Oh ! I believe I was relating to her some ridiculous stories of an old Irish groom of my uncle's . 
Your sister loves to laugh . 
You think her more light hearted than I am ? More easily amused , he replied consequently , you know , smiling , better company . 
I could not have hoped to entertain you with Irish anecdotes during a ten miles' drive . 
Naturally , I believe , I am as lively as Julia , but I have more to think of now . 
You have , undoubtedly and there are situations in which very high spirits would denote insensibility . 
Your prospects , however , are too fair to justify want of spirits . 
You have a very smiling scene before you . 
Do you mean literally or figuratively ? Literally , I conclude . 
Yes , certainly , the sun shines , and the park looks very cheerful . 
But unluckily that iron gate , that ha ha , give me a feeling of restraint and hardship . 
I cannot get out , as the starling said . 
As she spoke , and it was with expression , she walked to the gate he followed her . 
Prohibited ! nonsense ! I certainly can get out that way , and I will . 
Mr. Rushworth will be here in a moment , you know we shall not be out of sight . 
Or if we are , Miss Price will be so good as to tell him that he will find us near that knoll the grove of oak on the knoll . 
Fanny , feeling all this to be wrong , could not help making an effort to prevent it . 
You had better not go . 
She seemed to have the little wood all to herself . 
She could almost have thought that Edmund and Miss Crawford had left it , but that it was impossible for Edmund to forget her so entirely . 
She was again roused from disagreeable musings by sudden footsteps somebody was coming at a quick pace down the principal walk . 
A pretty trick , upon my word ! I cannot see them anywhere , looking eagerly into the park . 
But they cannot be very far off , and I think I am equal to as much as Maria , even without help . 
But , Julia , Mr. Rushworth will be here in a moment with the key . 
Do wait for Mr. Rushworth . 
I have had enough of the family for one morning . 
Why , child , I have but this moment escaped from his horrible mother . 
Yes , yes , we saw him . 
He was posting away as if upon life and death , and could but just spare time to tell us his errand , and where you all were . 
It is a pity he should have so much trouble for nothing . 
That is Miss Maria's concern . 
I am not obliged to punish myself for her sins . 
The mother I could not avoid , as long as my tiresome aunt was dancing about with the housekeeper , but the son I can get away from . 
And she immediately scrambled across the fence , and walked away , not attending to Fanny's last question of whether she had seen anything of Miss Crawford and Edmund . 
The sort of dread in which Fanny now sat of seeing Mr. Rushworth prevented her thinking so much of their continued absence , however , as she might have done . 
She felt that he had been very ill used , and was quite unhappy in having to communicate what had passed . 
He joined her within five minutes after Julia's exit and though she made the best of the story , he was evidently mortified and displeased in no common degree . 
At first he scarcely said anything his looks only expressed his extreme surprise and vexation , and he walked to the gate and stood there , without seeming to know what to do . 
They desired me to stay my cousin Maria charged me to say that you would find them at that knoll , or thereabouts . 
I do not believe I shall go any farther , said he sullenly I see nothing of them . 
By the time I get to the knoll they may be gone somewhere else . 
I have had walking enough . 
And he sat down with a most gloomy countenance by Fanny . 
I am very sorry , said she it is very unlucky . 
And she longed to be able to say something more to the purpose . 
After an interval of silence , I think they might as well have staid for me , said he . 
Miss Bertram thought you would follow her . 
I should not have had to follow her if she had staid . 
This could not be denied , and Fanny was silenced . 
I do not think him at all handsome . 
Handsome ! Nobody can call such an undersized man handsome . 
He is not five foot nine . 
I should not wonder if he is not more than five foot eight . 
I think he is an ill looking fellow . 
In my opinion , these Crawfords are no addition at all . 
We did very well without them . 
A small sigh escaped Fanny here , and she did not know how to contradict him . 
If I had made any difficulty about fetching the key , there might have been some excuse , but I went the very moment she said she wanted it . 
He got up and walked to the gate again , and wished he had had the key about him at the time . 
She found herself more successful in sending away than in retaining a companion . 
Mr. Rushworth was worked on . 
Well , said he , if you really think I had better go it would be foolish to bring the key for nothing . 
And letting himself out , he walked off without farther ceremony . 
Fanny's thoughts were now all engrossed by the two who had left her so long ago , and getting quite impatient , she resolved to go in search of them . 
It was evident that they had been spending their time pleasantly , and were not aware of the length of their absence . 
Mrs. Norris had been too well employed to move faster . 
She felt , as she looked at Julia and Mr. Rushworth , that hers was not the only dissatisfied bosom amongst them there was gloom on the face of each . 
The request had not been foreseen , but was very graciously received , and Julia's day was likely to end almost as well as it began . 
He was certainly better pleased to hand her into the barouche than to assist her in ascending the box , and his complacency seemed confirmed by the arrangement . 
Well , Fanny , this has been a fine day for you , upon my word , said Mrs. Norris , as they drove through the park . 
Nothing but pleasure from beginning to end ! I am sure you ought to be very much obliged to your aunt Bertram and me for contriving to let you go . 
A pretty good day's amusement you have had ! Maria was just discontented enough to say directly , I think you have done pretty well yourself , ma'am . 
Your lap seems full of good things , and here is a basket of something between us which has been knocking my elbow unmercifully . 
Nothing would satisfy that good old Mrs. Whitaker , but my taking one of the cheeses . 
I stood out as long as I could , till the tears almost came into her eyes , and I knew it was just the sort that my sister would be delighted with . 
Take care of the cheese , Fanny . 
Now I can manage the other parcel and the basket very well . 
What else have you been spunging ? said Maria , half pleased that Sotherton should be so complimented . 
Spunging , my dear ! It is nothing but four of those beautiful pheasants' eggs , which Mrs. Whitaker would quite force upon me she would not take a denial . 
And if I have good luck , your mother shall have some . 
Their spirits were in general exhausted and to determine whether the day had afforded most pleasure or pain , might occupy the meditations of almost all . 
November was the black month fixed for his return . 
Sir Thomas wrote of it with as much decision as experience and anxiety could authorise . 
It was a gloomy prospect , and all she could do was to throw a mist over it , and hope when the mist cleared away she should see something else . 
It would probably be the middle of November at least the middle of November was three months off . 
Three months comprised thirteen weeks . 
Much might happen in thirteen weeks . 
Edmund looked round at Mr. Rushworth too , but had nothing to say . 
Your father's return will be a very interesting event . 
It will , indeed , after such an absence an absence not only long , but including so many dangers . 
It will be the forerunner also of other interesting events your sister's marriage , and your taking orders . 
There is no sacrifice in the case , replied Edmund , with a serious smile , and glancing at the pianoforte again it is entirely her own doing . 
Oh yes I know it is . 
She has done no more than what every young woman would do and I have no doubt of her being extremely happy . 
My other sacrifice , of course , you do not understand . 
My taking orders , I assure you , is quite as voluntary as Maria's marrying . 
It is fortunate that your inclination and your father's convenience should accord so well . 
There is a very good living kept for you , I understand , hereabouts . 
Which you suppose has biassed me ? But that I am sure it has not , cried Fanny . 
Thank you for your good word , Fanny , but it is more than I would affirm myself . 
On the contrary , the knowing that there was such a provision for me probably did bias me . 
Nor can I think it wrong that it should . 
There was no natural disinclination to be overcome , and I see no reason why a man should make a worse clergyman for knowing that he will have a competence early in life . 
I was in safe hands . 
I hope I should not have been influenced myself in a wrong way , and I am sure my father was too conscientious to have allowed it . 
I have no doubt that I was biased , but I think it was blamelessly . 
Nobody wonders that they should prefer the line where their friends can serve them best , or suspects them to be less in earnest in it than they appear . 
No , my dear Miss Price , and for reasons good . 
The profession , either navy or army , is its own justification . 
It has everything in its favour heroism , danger , bustle , fashion . 
Soldiers and sailors are always acceptable in society . 
Nobody can wonder that men are soldiers and sailors . 
But the motives of a man who takes orders with the certainty of preferment may be fairly suspected , you think ? said Edmund . 
To be justified in your eyes , he must do it in the most complete uncertainty of any provision . 
What ! take orders without a living ! No that is madness indeed absolute madness . 
But I must beg some advantage to the clergyman from your own argument . 
It is indolence , Mr. Bertram , indeed . 
Indolence and love of ease a want of all laudable ambition , of taste for good company , or of inclination to take the trouble of being agreeable , which make men clergymen . 
A clergyman has nothing to do but be slovenly and selfish read the newspaper , watch the weather , and quarrel with his wife . 
His curate does all the work , and the business of his own life is to dine . 
There are such clergymen , no doubt , but I think they are not so common as to justify Miss Crawford in esteeming it their general character . 
commonplace censure , you are not judging from yourself , but from prejudiced persons , whose opinions you have been in the habit of hearing . 
It is impossible that your own observation can have given you much knowledge of the clergy . 
You can have been personally acquainted with very few of a set of men you condemn so conclusively . 
You are speaking what you have been told at your uncle's table . 
I speak what appears to me the general opinion and where an opinion is general , it is usually correct . 
Though I have not seen much of the domestic lives of clergymen , it is seen by too many to leave any deficiency of information . 
Where any one body of educated men , of whatever denomination , are condemned indiscriminately , there must be a deficiency of information , or of something else . 
Your uncle , and his brother admirals , perhaps knew little of clergymen beyond the chaplains whom , good or bad , they were always wishing away . 
To own the truth , Henry and I were partly driven out this very evening by a disappointment about a green goose , which he could not get the better of . 
My poor sister was forced to stay and bear it . 
I do not wonder at your disapprobation , upon my word . 
Fanny , it goes against us . 
We cannot attempt to defend Dr . 
No , replied Fanny , but we need not give up his profession for all that because , whatever profession Dr . 
Besides , I cannot but suppose that whatever there may be to wish otherwise in Dr . 
A man a sensible man like Dr . 
It must make him think and I have no doubt that he oftener endeavours to restrain himself than he would if he had been anything but a clergyman . 
I think the man who could often quarrel with Fanny , said Edmund affectionately , must be beyond the reach of any sermons . 
There goes good humour , I am sure , said he presently . 
I like to hear your enthusiasm , Fanny . 
They lose a great deal . 
You taught me to think and feel on the subject , cousin . 
I had a very apt scholar . 
There's Arcturus looking very bright . 
Yes , and the Bear . 
I wish I could see Cassiopeia . 
We must go out on the lawn for that . 
Should you be afraid ? Not in the least . 
It is a great while since we have had any star gazing . 
Yes I do not know how it has happened . 
Fanny sighed alone at the window till scolded away by Mrs. Norris's threats of catching cold . 
CHAPTER XII Sir Thomas was to return in November , and his eldest son had duties to call him earlier home . 
The season and duties which brought Mr. Bertram back to Mansfield took Mr. Crawford into Norfolk . 
Everingham could not do without him in the beginning of September . 
Each sister believed herself the favourite . 
Julia might be justified in so doing by the hints of Mrs. Grant , inclined to credit what she wished , and Maria by the hints of Mr. Crawford himself . 
As it was , however , she only hazarded a hint , and the hint was lost . 
He is used to much gayer places than Mansfield . 
It is to his credit , was Edmund's answer and I dare say it gives his sister pleasure . 
She does not like his unsettled habits . 
What a favourite he is with my cousins ! Yes , his manners to women are such as must please . 
Mrs. Grant , I believe , suspects him of a preference for Julia I have never seen much symptom of it , but I wish it may be so . 
He has no faults but what a serious attachment would remove . 
If Miss Bertram were not engaged , said Fanny cautiously , I could sometimes almost think that he admired her more than Julia . 
It had , however , been a very happy one to Fanny through four dances , and she was quite grieved to be losing even a quarter of an hour . 
Young folks in their situation should be excused complying with the common forms . 
I wonder my son did not propose it . 
I dare say he did , ma'am . 
Mr. Rushworth is never remiss . 
How she had looked before , Fanny could not recollect , for she had been dancing with Edmund herself , and had not thought about her . 
And what do you say , ma'am , to the chance of another match ? Mr. Rushworth has set a good example , and such things are very catching . 
Mrs. Rushworth , who saw nothing but her son , was quite at a loss . 
The couple above , ma'am . 
Do you see no symptoms there ? Oh dear ! Miss Julia and Mr. Crawford . 
Yes , indeed , a very pretty match . 
What is his property ? Four thousand a year . 
Those who have not more must be satisfied with what they have . 
Four thousand a year is a pretty estate , and he seems a very genteel , steady young man , so I hope Miss Julia will be very happy . 
It is not a settled thing , ma'am , yet . 
We only speak of it among friends . 
But I have very little doubt it will be . 
He is growing extremely particular in his attentions . 
Fanny could listen no farther . 
Fanny found that it was not to be , and in the modesty of her nature immediately felt that she had been unreasonable in expecting it . 
With more than equal civility the offer was declined she did not wish to dance . 
I am glad of it , said he , in a much brisker tone , and throwing down the newspaper again , for I am tired to death . 
I only wonder how the good people can keep it up so long . 
They had need be all in love , to find any amusement in such folly and so they are , I fancy . 
A strange business this in America , Dr . 
Grant ! What is your opinion ? I always come to you to know what I am to think of public matters . 
Your mother is quite anxious about it , but cannot very well spare time to sit down herself , because of her fringe . 
Now , you and I and Dr . 
Grant will just do and though we play but half crowns , you know , you may bet half guineas with him . 
I should be most happy , replied he aloud , and jumping up with alacrity , it would give me the greatest pleasure but that I am this moment going to dance . 
Come , Fanny , taking her hand , do not be dawdling any longer , or the dance will be over . 
A pretty modest request upon my word , he indignantly exclaimed as they walked away . 
To want to nail me to a card table for the next two hours with herself and Dr . 
Grant , who are always quarrelling , and that poking old woman , who knows no more of whist than of algebra . 
That is what I dislike most particularly . 
It is a great deal too bad . 
But when my aunt has got a fancy in her head , nothing can stop her . 
To be so near happiness , so near fame , so near the long paragraph in praise of the private theatricals at Ecclesford , the seat of the Right Hon . 
Ecclesford and its theatre , with its arrangements and dresses , rehearsals and jokes , was his never failing subject , and to boast of the past his only consolation . 
The play had been Lovers' Vows , and Mr. Yates was to have been Count Cassel . 
It must have injured the piece materially but I was resolved to make no difficulties . 
Sir Henry thought the duke not equal to Frederick , but that was because Sir Henry wanted the part himself whereas it was certainly in the best hands of the two . 
I was surprised to see Sir Henry such a stick . 
Luckily the strength of the piece did not depend upon him . 
Our Agatha was inimitable , and the duke was thought very great by many . 
And upon the whole , it would certainly have gone off wonderfully . 
It was a hard case , upon my word and , I do think you were very much to be pitied , were the kind responses of listening sympathy . 
An afterpiece instead of a comedy , said Mr. Bertram . 
Lovers' Vows were at an end , and Lord and Lady Ravenshaw left to act My Grandmother by themselves . 
The thought returned again and again . 
Oh for the Ecclesford theatre and scenery to try something with . 
Each sister could echo the wish and Henry Crawford , to whom , in all the riot of his gratifications it was yet an untasted pleasure , was quite alive at the idea . 
I feel as if I could be anything or everything as if I could rant and storm , or sigh or cut capers , in any tragedy or comedy in the English language . 
Let us be doing something . 
Any room in this house might suffice . 
We must have a curtain , said Tom Bertram a few yards of green baize for a curtain , and perhaps that may be enough . 
For mere amusement among ourselves we should want nothing more . 
I believe we must be satisfied with less , said Maria . 
There would not be time , and other difficulties would arise . 
We must rather adopt Mr. Crawford's views , and make the performance , not the theatre , our object . 
Many parts of our best plays are independent of scenery . 
Nay , said Edmund , who began to listen with alarm . 
Let us do nothing by halves . 
If we do not outdo Ecclesford , we do nothing . 
Now , Edmund , do not be disagreeable , said Julia . 
Nobody loves a play better than you do , or can have gone much farther to see one . 
He was determined to prevent it , if possible , though his mother , who equally heard the conversation which passed at table , did not evince the least disapprobation . 
The same evening afforded him an opportunity of trying his strength . 
Maria , Julia , Henry Crawford , and Mr. Yates were in the billiard room . 
It seems to join the billiard room on purpose . 
You are not serious , Tom , in meaning to act ? said Edmund , in a low voice , as his brother approached the fire . 
Not serious ! never more so , I assure you . 
What is there to surprise you in it ? I think it would be very wrong . 
You take up a thing so seriously ! as if we were going to act three times a week till my father's return , and invite all the country . 
But it is not to be a display of that sort . 
We mean nothing but a little amusement among ourselves , just to vary the scene , and exercise our powers in something new . 
We want no audience , no publicity . 
I have no fears and no scruples . 
It is a very anxious period for her . 
As he said this , each looked towards their mother . 
Edmund smiled and shook his head . 
By Jove ! this won't do , cried Tom , throwing himself into a chair with a hearty laugh . 
To be sure , my dear mother , your anxiety I was unlucky there . 
What is the matter ? asked her ladyship , in the heavy tone of one half roused I was not asleep . 
I cannot agree with you I am convinced that my father would totally disapprove it . 
And I am convinced to the contrary . 
I am sure he encouraged it in us as boys . 
It was a very different thing . 
You must see the difference yourself . 
My father wished us , as schoolboys , to speak well , but he would never wish his grown up daughters to be acting plays . 
His sense of decorum is strict . 
I know all that , said Tom , displeased . 
I know my father as well as you do and I'll take care that his daughters do nothing to distress him . 
Manage your own concerns , Edmund , and I'll take care of the rest of the family . 
It would be taking liberties with my father's house in his absence which could not be justified . 
For everything of that nature I will be answerable , said Tom , in a decided tone . 
His house shall not be hurt . 
Absolute nonsense ! The innovation , if not wrong as an innovation , will be wrong as an expense . 
Yes , the expense of such an undertaking would be prodigious ! Perhaps it might cost a whole twenty pounds . 
Don't imagine that nobody in this house can see or judge but yourself . 
Don't act yourself , if you do not like it , but don't expect to govern everybody else . 
No , as to acting myself , said Edmund , that I absolutely protest against . 
Tom walked out of the room as he said it , and Edmund was left to sit down and stir the fire in thoughtful vexation . 
Your brother's taste and your sisters' seem very different . 
I have no hope there , Fanny . 
If they persist in the scheme , they will find something . 
I shall speak to my sisters and try to dissuade them , and that is all I can do . 
I should think my aunt Norris would be on your side . 
Family squabbling is the greatest evil of all , and we had better do anything than be altogether by the ears . 
Their mother had no objection to the plan , and they were not in the least afraid of their father's disapprobation . 
Opposition was vain and as to Mrs. Norris , he was mistaken in supposing she would wish to make any . 
CHAPTER XIV Fanny seemed nearer being right than Edmund had supposed . 
Other preparations were also in hand . 
All the best plays were run over in vain . 
Not a tolerable woman's part in the play . 
Anything but that , my dear Tom . 
It would be impossible to fill it up . 
One could not expect anybody to take such a part . 
Nothing but buffoonery from beginning to end . 
That might do , perhaps , but for the low parts . 
If I must give my opinion , I have always thought it the most insipid play in the English language . 
I do not wish to make objections I shall be happy to be of any use , but I think we could not chuse worse . 
Fanny looked on and listened , not unamused to observe the selfishness which , more or less disguised , seemed to govern them all , and wondering how it would end . 
For her own gratification she could have wished that something might be acted , for she had never seen even half a play , but everything of higher consequence was against it . 
This will never do , said Tom Bertram at last . 
We are wasting time most abominably . 
Something must be fixed on . 
No matter what , so that something is chosen . 
We must not be so nice . 
A few characters too many must not frighten us . 
We must descend a little . 
If a part is insignificant , the greater our credit in making anything of it . 
From this moment I make no difficulties . 
I take any part you chuse to give me , so as it be comic . 
Let it but be comic , I condition for nothing more . 
For about the fifth time he then proposed the Heir at Law , doubting only whether to prefer Lord Duberley or Dr . 
Pangloss for himself and very earnestly , but very unsuccessfully , trying to persuade the others that there were some fine tragic parts in the rest of the dramatis personae . 
And as for the rest , they may be filled up by anybody . 
It is only Count Cassel and Anhalt . 
The suggestion was generally welcome . 
Everybody was growing weary of indecision , and the first idea with everybody was , that nothing had been proposed before so likely to suit them all . 
Henry Crawford was ready to take either . 
Whichever Mr. Yates did not chuse would perfectly satisfy him , and a short parley of compliment ensued . 
She was acknowledged to be quite right , and the two parts being accepted accordingly , she was certain of the proper Frederick . 
This is not behaving well by the absent , said she . 
Here are not women enough . 
Amelia and Agatha may do for Maria and me , but here is nothing for your sister , Mr. Crawford . 
But this was immediately opposed by Tom Bertram , who asserted the part of Amelia to be in every respect the property of Miss Crawford , if she would accept it . 
It falls as naturally , as necessarily to her , said he , as Agatha does to one or other of my sisters . 
It can be no sacrifice on their side , for it is highly comic . 
Each sister looked anxious for each felt the best claim to Agatha , and was hoping to have it pressed on her by the rest . 
Henry Crawford , who meanwhile had taken up the play , and with seeming carelessness was turning over the first act , soon settled the business . 
I must entreat Miss Julia Bertram , said he , not to engage in the part of Agatha , or it will be the ruin of all my solemnity . 
You must not , indeed you must not . 
I could not stand your countenance dressed up in woe and paleness . 
The many laughs we have had together would infallibly come across me , and Frederick and his knapsack would be obliged to run away . 
Pleasantly , courteously , it was spoken but the manner was lost in the matter to Julia's feelings . 
Maria will be the best Agatha . 
Though Julia fancies she prefers tragedy , I would not trust her in it . 
There is nothing of tragedy about her . 
She has not the look of it . 
Her features are not tragic features , and she walks too quick , and speaks too quick , and would not keep her countenance . 
She had better do the old countrywoman the Cottager's wife you had , indeed , Julia . 
Cottager's wife is a very pretty part , I assure you . 
The old lady relieves the high flown benevolence of her husband with a good deal of spirit . 
You shall be Cottager's wife . 
Cottager's wife ! cried Mr. Yates . 
What are you talking of ? The most trivial , paltry , insignificant part the merest commonplace not a tolerable speech in the whole . 
Your sister do that ! It is an insult to propose it . 
At Ecclesford the governess was to have done it . 
We all agreed that it could not be offered to anybody else . 
A little more justice , Mr. Manager , if you please . 
You do not deserve the office , if you cannot appreciate the talents of your company a little better . 
Why , as to that , my good friend , till I and my company have really acted there must be some guesswork but I mean no disparagement to Julia . 
We cannot have two Agathas , and we must have one Cottager's wife and I am sure I set her the example of moderation myself in being satisfied with the old Butler . 
It could make no difference in the play , and as for Cottager himself , when he has got his wife's speeches , I would undertake him with all my heart . 
We must not allow her to accept the part . 
She must not be left to her own complaisance . 
Her talents will be wanted in Amelia . 
Amelia is a character more difficult to be well represented than even Agatha . 
I consider Amelia is the most difficult character in the whole piece . 
It requires great powers , great nicety , to give her playfulness and simplicity without extravagance . 
I have seen good actresses fail in the part . 
Simplicity , indeed , is beyond the reach of almost every actress by profession . 
It requires a delicacy of feeling which they have not . 
It requires a gentlewoman a Julia Bertram . 
No , no , Julia must not be Amelia . 
It is not at all the part for her . 
She would not like it . 
She would not do well . 
She is too tall and robust . 
Amelia should be a small , light , girlish , skipping figure . 
It is fit for Miss Crawford , and Miss Crawford only . 
She looks the part , and I am persuaded will do it admirably . 
Without attending to this , Henry Crawford continued his supplication . 
You must oblige us , said he , indeed you must . 
When you have studied the character , I am sure you will feel it suit you . 
Tragedy may be your choice , but it will certainly appear that comedy chuses you . 
Julia wavered but was he only trying to soothe and pacify her , and make her overlook the previous affront ? She distrusted him . 
The slight had been most determined . 
He was , perhaps , but at treacherous play with her . 
Tom Bertram began again Miss Crawford must be Amelia . 
She will be an excellent Amelia . 
An odious , little , pert , unnatural , impudent girl . 
I have always protested against comedy , and this is comedy in its worst form . 
CHAPTER XV Miss Crawford accepted the part very readily and soon after Miss Bertram's return from the Parsonage , Mr. Rushworth arrived , and another character was consequently cast . 
We have got a play , said he . 
I do not know how I shall like it . 
Fanny's eyes followed Edmund , and her heart beat for him as she heard this speech , and saw his look , and felt what his sensations must be . 
Lovers' Vows ! in a tone of the greatest amazement , was his only reply to Mr. Rushworth , and he turned towards his brother and sisters as if hardly doubting a contradiction . 
Yes , cried Mr. Yates . 
After all our debatings and difficulties , we find there is nothing that will suit us altogether so well , nothing so unexceptionable , as Lovers' Vows . 
The wonder is that it should not have been thought of before . 
But what do you do for women ? said Edmund gravely , and looking at Maria . 
Maria blushed in spite of herself as she answered , I take the part which Lady Ravenshaw was to have done , and Miss Crawford is to be Amelia . 
Mr. Rushworth followed him to say , I come in three times , and have two and forty speeches . 
That's something , is not it ? But I do not much like the idea of being so fine . 
I shall hardly know myself in a blue dress and a pink satin cloak . 
Edmund could not answer him . 
I cannot but suppose you will when you have read it carefully over . 
Read only the first act aloud to either your mother or aunt , and see how you can approve it . 
It will not be necessary to send you to your father's judgment , I am convinced . 
We see things very differently , cried Maria . 
I am sorry for it , was his answer but in this matter it is you who are to lead . 
You must set the example . 
If others have blundered , it is your place to put them right , and shew them what true delicacy is . 
In all points of decorum your conduct must be law to the rest of the party . 
There would be the greatest indecorum , I think . 
Do you imagine that I could have such an idea in my head ? No let your conduct be the only harangue . 
Say that , on examining the part , you feel yourself unequal to it that you find it requiring more exertion and confidence than you can be supposed to have . 
Say this with firmness , and it will be quite enough . 
All who can distinguish will understand your motive . 
The play will be given up , and your delicacy honoured as it ought . 
Do not act anything improper , my dear , said Lady Bertram . 
Sir Thomas would not like it . 
Fanny , ring the bell I must have my dinner . 
To be sure , Julia is dressed by this time . 
I am convinced , madam , said Edmund , preventing Fanny , that Sir Thomas would not like it . 
There , my dear , do you hear what Edmund says ? If I were to decline the part , said Maria , with renewed zeal , Julia would certainly take it . 
I am sure she would argue so . 
I was just going to say the very same thing , said Mrs. Norris . 
it can be easily left out . 
We must not be over precise , Edmund . 
As Mr. Rushworth is to act too , there can be no harm . 
I only wish Tom had known his own mind when the carpenters began , for there was the loss of half a day's work about those side doors . 
The curtain will be a good job , however . 
The maids do their work very well , and I think we shall be able to send back some dozens of the rings . 
There is no occasion to put them so very close together . 
I am of some use , I hope , in preventing waste and making the most of things . 
There should always be one steady head to superintend so many young ones . 
I forgot to tell Tom of something that happened to me this very day . 
, I'll take the boards to your father , Dick , so get you home again as fast as you can . 
Maria , wanting Henry Crawford's animating support , thought the subject better avoided . 
She was very civilly answered by Lady Bertram , but Edmund said nothing . 
His being only a bystander was not disclaimed . 
Mr. Rushworth was to be Count Cassel , but no one had yet undertaken Anhalt . 
I had my choice of the parts , said Mr. Rushworth but I thought I should like the Count best , though I do not much relish the finery I am to have . 
You chose very wisely , I am sure , replied Miss Crawford , with a brightened look Anhalt is a heavy part . 
The Count has two and forty speeches , returned Mr. Rushworth , which is no trifle . 
I am not at all surprised , said Miss Crawford , after a short pause , at this want of an Anhalt . 
Such a forward young lady may well frighten the men . 
I should be but too happy in taking the part , if it were possible , cried Tom but , unluckily , the Butler and Anhalt are in together . 
I will not entirely give it up , however I will try what can be done I will look it over again . 
Your brother should take the part , said Mr. Yates , in a low voice . 
Do not you think he would ? I shall not ask him , replied Tom , in a cold , determined manner . 
Miss Crawford talked of something else , and soon afterwards rejoined the party at the fire . 
They do not want me at all , said she , seating herself . 
I only puzzle them , and oblige them to make civil speeches . 
Mr. Edmund Bertram , as you do not act yourself , you will be a disinterested adviser and , therefore , I apply to you . 
If any part could tempt you to act , I suppose it would be Anhalt , observed the lady archly , after a short pause for he is a clergyman , you know . 
That circumstance would by no means tempt me , he replied , for I should be sorry to make the character ridiculous by bad acting . 
Oh ! we do not want to disturb you from your seat . 
We do not want your present services . 
We shall only want you in our play . 
You must be Cottager's wife . 
Me ! cried Fanny , sitting down again with a most frightened look . 
Indeed you must excuse me . 
I could not act anything if you were to give me the world . 
No , indeed , I cannot act . 
Indeed , but you must , for we cannot excuse you . 
If you are afraid of half a dozen speeches , cried Mr. Rushworth , what would you do with such a part as mine ? I have forty two to learn . 
Yes , yes , you can act well enough for us . 
Learn your part , and we will teach you all the rest . 
No , indeed , Mr. Bertram , you must excuse me . 
You cannot have an idea . 
It would be absolutely impossible for me . 
If I were to undertake it , I should only disappoint you . 
Phoo ! Phoo ! Do not be so shamefaced . 
You'll do it very well . 
Every allowance will be made for you . 
We do not expect perfection . 
Do not urge her , madam , said Edmund . 
It is not fair to urge her in this manner . 
You see she does not like to act . 
Let her chuse for herself , as well as the rest of us . 
Her judgment may be quite as safely trusted . 
Do not urge her any more . 
But there will not be the smallest difficulty in filling it , he added . 
We have but to speak the word we may pick and chuse . 
After a moment's thought , Miss Crawford calmly replied , As far as I am concerned , I can have no objection to anything that you all think eligible . 
Have I ever seen either of the gentlemen ? Yes , Mr. Charles Maddox dined at my sister's one day , did not he , Henry ? A quiet looking young man . 
Let him be applied to , if you please , for it will be less unpleasant to me than to have a perfect stranger . 
Charles Maddox was to be the man . 
It will be very disagreeable , and by no means what I expected . 
CHAPTER XVI It was not in Miss Crawford's power to talk Fanny into any real forgetfulness of what had passed . 
It had been their school room so called till the Miss Bertrams would not allow it to be called so any longer , and inhabited as such to a later period . 
There Miss Lee had lived , and there they had read and written , and talked and laughed , till within the last three years , when she had quitted them . 
The comfort of it in her hours of leisure was extreme . 
She could go there after anything unpleasant below , and find immediate consolation in some pursuit , or some train of thought at hand . 
Her eyes brightened at the sight of Edmund . 
Can I speak with you , Fanny , for a few minutes ? said he . 
My opinion ! she cried , shrinking from such a compliment , highly as it gratified her . 
Yes , your advice and opinion . 
I do not know what to do . 
This acting scheme gets worse and worse , you see . 
This is the end of all the privacy and propriety which was talked about at first . 
I know no harm of Charles Maddox but the excessive intimacy which must spring from his being admitted among us in this manner is highly objectionable , the more than intimacy the familiarity . 
I cannot think of it with any patience and it does appear to me an evil of such magnitude as must , if possible , be prevented . 
Do not you see it in the same light ? Yes but what can be done ? Your brother is so determined . 
There is but one thing to be done , Fanny . 
I must take Anhalt myself . 
I am well aware that nothing else will quiet Tom . 
Fanny could not answer him . 
It is not at all what I like , he continued . 
No man can like being driven into the appearance of such inconsistency . 
Can you , Fanny ? No , said Fanny slowly , not immediately , but But what ? I see your judgment is not with me . 
Think it a little over . 
To think only of the licence which every rehearsal must tend to create . 
It is all very bad ! Put yourself in Miss Crawford's place , Fanny . 
Consider what it would be to act Amelia with a stranger . 
She has a right to be felt for , because she evidently feels for herself . 
Her feelings ought to be respected . 
Does it not strike you so , Fanny ? You hesitate . 
It will be such a triumph to the others ! They will not have much cause of triumph when they see how infamously I act . 
But , however , triumph there certainly will be , and I must brave it . 
But if I can be the means of restraining the publicity of the business , of limiting the exhibition , of concentrating our folly , I shall be well repaid . 
This will be a material gain . 
My object is to confine it to Mrs. Rushworth and the Grants . 
Will not this be worth gaining ? Yes , it will be a great point . 
But still it has not your approbation . 
Can you mention any other measure by which I have a chance of doing equal good ? No , I cannot think of anything else . 
Give me your approbation , then , Fanny . 
I am not comfortable without it . 
I thought you would have entered more into Miss Crawford's feelings . 
No doubt she will be very glad . 
It must be a great relief to her , said Fanny , trying for greater warmth of manner . 
She never appeared more amiable than in her behaviour to you last night . 
It gave her a very strong claim on my goodwill . 
She was very kind , indeed , and I am glad to have her spared . 
She could not finish the generous effusion . 
Her conscience stopt her in the middle , but Edmund was satisfied . 
I shall walk down immediately after breakfast , said he , and am sure of giving pleasure there . 
And now , dear Fanny , I will not interrupt you any longer . 
You want to be reading . 
But I could not be easy till I had spoken to you , and come to a decision . 
Sleeping or waking , my head has been full of this matter all night . 
It is an evil , but I am certainly making it less than it might be . 
You , in the meanwhile , will be taking a trip into China , I suppose . 
How does Lord Macartney go on ? opening a volume on the table and then taking up some others . 
And here are Crabbe's Tales , and the Idler , at hand to relieve you , if you tire of your great book . 
I admire your little establishment exceedingly and as soon as I am gone , you will empty your head of all this nonsense of acting , and sit comfortably down to your table . 
But do not stay here to be cold . 
He went but there was no reading , no China , no composure for Fanny . 
He had told her the most extraordinary , the most inconceivable , the most unwelcome news and she could think of nothing else . 
Could it be possible ? Edmund so inconsistent ! Was he not deceiving himself ? Was he not wrong ? Alas ! it was all Miss Crawford's doing . 
She had seen her influence in every speech , and was miserable . 
The doubts and alarms as to her own conduct , which had previously distressed her , and which had all slept while she listened to him , were become of little consequence now . 
This deeper anxiety swallowed them up . 
Things should take their course she cared not how it ended . 
Her cousins might attack , but could hardly tease her . 
She was beyond their reach and if at last obliged to yield no matter it was all misery now . 
CHAPTER XVII It was , indeed , a triumphant day to Mr. Bertram and Maria . 
Such a victory over Edmund's discretion had been beyond their hopes , and was most delightful . 
Edmund had descended from that moral elevation which he had maintained before , and they were both as much the better as the happier for the descent . 
To have it quite in their own family circle was what they had particularly wished . 
It was all good humour and encouragement . 
Perhaps , said Tom , Fanny may be more disposed to oblige us now . 
Perhaps you may persuade her . 
No , she is quite determined . 
She certainly will not act . 
And not another word was said but Fanny felt herself again in danger , and her indifference to the danger was beginning to fail her already . 
He was certainly right in respecting such feelings he was glad he had determined on it . 
And the morning wore away in satisfactions very sweet , if not very sound . 
She was safe but peace and safety were unconnected here . 
Her mind had been never farther from peace . 
She could not feel that she had done wrong herself , but she was disquieted in every other way . 
Her heart and her judgment were equally against Edmund's decision she could not acquit his unsteadiness , and his happiness under it made her wretched . 
She was full of jealousy and agitation . 
Miss Crawford came with looks of gaiety which seemed an insult , with friendly expressions towards herself which she could hardly answer calmly . 
She could almost think anything would have been preferable to this . 
Fanny's heart was not absolutely the only saddened one amongst them , as she soon began to acknowledge to herself . 
Julia was a sufferer too , though not quite so blamelessly . 
I rather wonder Julia is not in love with Henry , was her observation to Mary . 
I dare say she is , replied Mary coldly . 
I imagine both sisters are . 
Both ! no , no , that must not be . 
Do not give him a hint of it . 
Think of Mr. Rushworth ! You had better tell Miss Bertram to think of Mr. Rushworth . 
It may do her some good . 
I often think of Mr. Rushworth's property and independence , and wish them in other hands but I never think of him . 
A man might represent the county with such an estate a man might escape a profession and represent the county . 
I dare say he will be in parliament soon . 
When Sir Thomas comes , I dare say he will be in for some borough , but there has been nobody to put him in the way of doing anything yet . 
Sir Thomas is to achieve many mighty things when he comes home , said Mary , after a pause . 
Do you remember Hawkins Browne's 'Address to Tobacco , in imitation of Pope ? Blest leaf ! whose aromatic gales dispense To Templars modesty , to Parsons sense . 
I will parody them Blest Knight ! whose dictatorial looks dispense To Children affluence , to Rushworth sense . 
Will not that do , Mrs. Grant ? Everything seems to depend upon Sir Thomas's return . 
You will find his consequence very just and reasonable when you see him in his family , I assure you . 
I do not think we do so well without him . 
He has a fine dignified manner , which suits the head of such a house , and keeps everybody in their place . 
Lady Bertram seems more of a cipher now than when he is at home and nobody else can keep Mrs. Norris in order . 
But , Mary , do not fancy that Maria Bertram cares for Henry . 
I would not give much for Mr. Rushworth's chance if Henry stept in before the articles were signed . 
Julia did suffer , however , though Mrs. Grant discerned it not , and though it escaped the notice of many of her own family likewise . 
Her heart was sore and angry , and she was capable only of angry consolations . 
Fanny saw and pitied much of this in Julia but there was no outward fellowship between them . 
Julia made no communication , and Fanny took no liberties . 
They were two solitary sufferers , or connected only by Fanny's consciousness . 
The inattention of the two brothers and the aunt to Julia's discomposure , and their blindness to its true cause , must be imputed to the fullness of their own minds . 
Tom was engrossed by the concerns of his theatre , and saw nothing that did not immediately relate to it . 
Everybody began to have their vexation . 
Tom himself began to fret over the scene painter's slow progress , and to feel the miseries of waiting . 
Fanny , being always a very courteous listener , and often the only listener at hand , came in for the complaints and the distresses of most of them . 
So far from being all satisfied and all enjoying , she found everybody requiring something they had not , and giving occasion of discontent to the others . 
She did not like him as a man , but she must admit him to be the best actor , and on this point there were not many who differed from her . 
The gloom of her first anticipations was proved to have been unfounded . 
She was occasionally useful to all she was perhaps as much at peace as any . 
There are but three seams you may do them in a trice . 
It would be lucky for me if I had nothing but the executive part to do . 
What is the play about , Fanny ? you have never told me . 
Oh ! sister , pray do not ask her now for Fanny is not one of those who can talk and work at the same time . 
It is about Lovers' Vows . 
Lady Bertram seemed quite resigned to waiting . 
The whole subject of it was love a marriage of love was to be described by the gentleman , and very little short of a declaration of love be made by the lady . 
She had read and read the scene again with many painful , many wondering emotions , and looked forward to their representation of it as a circumstance almost too interesting . 
She did not believe they had yet rehearsed it , even in private . 
The morrow came , the plan for the evening continued , and Fanny's consideration of it did not become less agitated . 
Am I right ? Yes this is the East room . 
My dear Miss Price , I beg your pardon , but I have made my way to you on purpose to entreat your help . 
Fanny , quite surprised , endeavoured to shew herself mistress of the room by her civilities , and looked at the bright bars of her empty grate with concern . 
Thank you I am quite warm , very warm . 
Allow me to stay here a little while , and do have the goodness to hear me my third act . 
You will be so good , won't you ? Fanny was most civil in her assurances , though she could not give them in a very steady voice . 
Have you ever happened to look at the part I mean ? continued Miss Crawford , opening her book . 
I did not think much of it at first but , upon my word . 
There , look at that speech , and that , and that . 
How am I ever to look him in the face and say such things ? Could you do it ? But then he is your cousin , which makes all the difference . 
You must rehearse it with me , that I may fancy you him , and get on by degrees . 
You have a look of his sometimes . 
Have I ? I will do my best with the greatest readiness but I must read the part , for I can say very little of it . 
None of it , I suppose . 
You are to have the book , of course . 
We must have two chairs at hand for you to bring forward to the front of the stage . 
Yates is storming away in the dining room . 
I heard him as I came upstairs , and the theatre is engaged of course by those indefatigable rehearsers , Agatha and Frederick . 
If they are not perfect , I shall be surprised . 
Was not that well done of me ? He brightened up directly . 
She could not equal them in their warmth . 
Her spirits sank under the glow of theirs , and she felt herself becoming too nearly nothing to both to have any comfort in having been sought by either . 
They must now rehearse together . 
Edmund proposed , urged , entreated it , till the lady , not very unwilling at first , could refuse no longer , and Fanny was wanted only to prompt and observe them . 
She believed herself to feel too much of it in the aggregate for honesty or safety in particulars . 
To prompt them must be enough for her and it was sometimes more than enough for she could not always pay attention to the book . 
In watching them she forgot herself and , agitated by the increasing spirit of Edmund's manner , had once closed the page and turned away exactly as he wanted help . 
It was imputed to very reasonable weariness , and she was thanked and pitied but she deserved their pity more than she hoped they would ever surmise . 
Whatever might be its effect , however , she must stand the brunt of it again that very day . 
There seemed a general diffusion of cheerfulness on the occasion . 
Tom was enjoying such an advance towards the end Edmund was in spirits from the morning's rehearsal , and little vexations seemed everywhere smoothed away . 
They did not wait long for the Crawfords , but there was no Mrs. Grant . 
Grant , professing an indisposition , for which he had little credit with his fair sister in law , could not spare his wife . 
Grant is ill , said she , with mock solemnity . 
He has been ill ever since he did not eat any of the pheasant today . 
He fancied it tough , sent away his plate , and has been suffering ever since . 
Here was disappointment ! Mrs. Grant's non attendance was sad indeed . 
Her pleasant manners and cheerful conformity made her always valuable amongst them but now she was absolutely necessary . 
They could not act , they could not rehearse with any satisfaction without her . 
The comfort of the whole evening was destroyed . 
What was to be done ? Tom , as Cottager , was in despair . 
She was immediately surrounded by supplications everybody asked it even Edmund said , Do , Fanny , if it is not very disagreeable to you . 
But Fanny still hung back . 
She could not endure the idea of it . 
You have only to read the part , said Henry Crawford , with renewed entreaty . 
And I do believe she can say every word of it , added Maria , for she could put Mrs. Grant right the other day in twenty places . 
Fanny , I am sure you know the part . 
She would do her best . 
Everybody was satisfied and she was left to the tremors of a most palpitating heart , while the others prepared to begin . 
CHAPTER XIX How is the consternation of the party to be described ? To the greater number it was a moment of absolute horror . 
Sir Thomas in the house ! All felt the instantaneous conviction . 
Not a hope of imposition or mistake was harboured anywhere . 
Julia was the first to move and speak again . 
Her going roused the rest and at the same moment the two brothers stepped forward , feeling the necessity of doing something . 
A very few words between them were sufficient . 
The case admitted no difference of opinion they must go to the drawing room directly . 
Maria joined them with the same intent , just then the stoutest of the three for the very circumstance which had driven Julia away was to her the sweetest support . 
Henry Crawford's retaining her hand at such a moment , a moment of such peculiar proof and importance , was worth ages of doubt and anxiety . 
She hailed it as an earnest of the most serious determination , and was equal even to encounter her father . 
Fanny was left with only the Crawfords and Mr. Yates . 
Her agitation and alarm exceeded all that was endured by the rest , by the right of a disposition which not even innocence could keep from suffering . 
The Crawfords were more warm on the subject than Mr. Yates , from better understanding the family , and judging more clearly of the mischief that must ensue . 
As she entered , her own name caught her ear . 
He had never been so kind , so very kind to her in his life . 
His manner seemed changed , his voice was quick from the agitation of joy and all that had been awful in his dignity seemed lost in tenderness . 
A fine blush having succeeded the previous paleness of her face , he was justified in his belief of her equal improvement in health and beauty . 
Sir Thomas was indeed the life of the party , who at his suggestion now seated themselves round the fire . 
There was nothing disagreeable in Mr. Rushworth's appearance , and Sir Thomas was liking him already . 
Mrs. Norris was by no means to be compared in happiness to her sister . 
It had left her nothing to do . 
Sure , my dear Sir Thomas , a basin of soup would be a much better thing for you than tea . 
Do have a basin of soup . 
Sir Thomas could not be provoked . 
Still the same anxiety for everybody's comfort , my dear Mrs. Norris , was his answer . 
But indeed I would rather have nothing but tea . 
Well , then , Lady Bertram , suppose you speak for tea directly suppose you hurry Baddeley a little he seems behindhand to night . 
She carried this point , and Sir Thomas's narrative proceeded . 
At length there was a pause . 
We have been all alive with acting . 
Indeed ! and what have you been acting ? Oh ! they'll tell you all about it . 
The all will soon be told , cried Tom hastily , and with affected unconcern but it is not worth while to bore my father with it now . 
You will hear enough of it to morrow , sir . 
We have just been trying , by way of doing something , and amusing my mother , just within the last week , to get up a few scenes , a mere trifle . 
We have had such incessant rains almost since October began , that we have been nearly confined to the house for days together . 
I have hardly taken out a gun since the rd . 
Tolerable sport the first three days , but there has been no attempting anything since . 
I do not think you will find your woods by any means worse stocked than they were . 
I never saw Mansfield Wood so full of pheasants in my life as this year . 
I hope you will take a day's sport there yourself , sir , soon . 
He was gone before anything had been said to prepare him for the change he must find there and a pause of alarm followed his disappearance . 
Edmund was the first to speak Something must be done , said he . 
It is time to think of our visitors , said Maria , still feeling her hand pressed to Henry Crawford's heart , and caring little for anything else . 
Where did you leave Miss Crawford , Fanny ? Fanny told of their departure , and delivered their message . 
Then poor Yates is all alone , cried Tom . 
I will go and fetch him . 
He will be no bad assistant when it all comes out . 
To the theatre he went , and reached it just in time to witness the first meeting of his father and his friend . 
Some one was talking there in a very loud accent he did not know the voice more than talking almost hallooing . 
It would be the last in all probability the last scene on that stage but he was sure there could not be a finer . 
The house would close with the greatest eclat . 
There was little time , however , for the indulgence of any images of merriment . 
It was necessary for him to step forward , too , and assist the introduction , and with many awkward sensations he did his best . 
I come from your theatre , said he composedly , as he sat down I found myself in it rather unexpectedly . 
It appears a neat job , however , as far as I could judge by candlelight , and does my friend Christopher Jackson credit . 
This was , in fact , the origin of our acting , said Tom , after a moment's thought . 
It was like treading old ground again . 
Such a look of reproach at Edmund from his father she could never have expected to witness and to feel that it was in any degree deserved was an aggravation indeed . 
To own the truth , Sir Thomas , we were in the middle of a rehearsal when you arrived this evening . 
We were going through the three first acts , and not unsuccessfully upon the whole . 
We bespeak your indulgence , you understand , as young performers we bespeak your indulgence . 
My indulgence shall be given , sir , replied Sir Thomas gravely , but without any other rehearsal . 
And with a relenting smile , he added , I come home to be happy and indulgent . 
Then turning away towards any or all of the rest , he tranquilly said , Mr. and Miss Crawford were mentioned in my last letters from Mansfield . 
Mr. Crawford was a most pleasant , gentleman like man his sister a sweet , pretty , elegant , lively girl . 
Mr. Rushworth could be silent no longer . 
Sir Thomas did not quite understand this , and looked with some surprise at the speaker . 
If I must say what I think , continued Mr. Rushworth , in my opinion it is very disagreeable to be always rehearsing . 
It is having too much of a good thing . 
I am not so fond of acting as I was at first . 
I think we are a great deal better employed , sitting comfortably here among ourselves , and doing nothing . 
Sir Thomas looked again , and then replied with an approving smile , I am happy to find our sentiments on this subject so much the same . 
It gives me sincere satisfaction . 
Sir Thomas meant to be giving Mr. Rushworth's opinion in better words than he could find himself . 
It was impossible for many of the others not to smile . 
We have all been more or less to blame , said he , every one of us , excepting Fanny . 
Fanny is the only one who has judged rightly throughout who has been consistent . 
Her feelings have been steadily against it from first to last . 
She never ceased to think of what was due to you . 
You will find Fanny everything you could wish . 
He did not enter into any remonstrance with his other children he was more willing to believe they felt their error than to run the risk of investigation . 
The reproof of an immediate conclusion of everything , the sweep of every preparation , would be sufficient . 
There was one person , however , in the house , whom he could not leave to learn his sentiments merely through his conduct . 
He could not help giving Mrs. Norris a hint of his having hoped that her advice might have been interposed to prevent what her judgment must certainly have disapproved . 
Her only resource was to get out of the subject as fast as possible , and turn the current of Sir Thomas's ideas into a happier channel . 
But her chief strength lay in Sotherton . 
Her greatest support and glory was in having formed the connexion with the Rushworths . 
She took to herself all the credit of bringing Mr. Rushworth's admiration of Maria to any effect . 
But I left no stone unturned . 
I was ready to move heaven and earth to persuade my sister , and at last I did persuade her . 
You know the distance to Sotherton it was in the middle of winter , and the roads almost impassable , but I did persuade her . 
I know how great , how justly great , your influence is with Lady Bertram and her children , and am the more concerned that it should not have been . 
And then the poor horses too ! To see them straining away ! You know how I always feel for the horses . 
And when we got to the bottom of Sandcroft Hill , what do you think I did ? You will laugh at me but I got out and walked up . 
I caught a dreadful cold , but that I did not regard . 
My object was accomplished in the visit . 
I hope we shall always think the acquaintance worth any trouble that might be taken to establish it . 
He seemed to feel exactly as one could wish . 
Yes , indeed , and the more you know of him the better you will like him . 
'Upon my word , Mrs. Norris , said Mrs. Grant the other day , 'if Mr. Rushworth were a son of your own , he could not hold Sir Thomas in greater respect . 
It was a busy morning with him . 
Conversation with any of them occupied but a small part of it . 
Mr. Yates felt it as acutely as might be supposed . 
The evening passed with external smoothness , though almost every mind was ruffled and the music which Sir Thomas called for from his daughters helped to conceal the want of real harmony . 
Maria was in a good deal of agitation . 
She had been expecting to see him the whole morning , and all the evening , too , was still expecting him . 
Mr. Rushworth had set off early with the great news for Sotherton and she had fondly hoped for such an immediate eclaircissement as might save him the trouble of ever coming back again . 
But they had seen no one from the Parsonage , not a creature , and had heard no tidings beyond a friendly note of congratulation and inquiry from Mrs. Grant to Lady Bertram . 
It was the first day for many , many weeks , in which the families had been wholly divided . 
Four and twenty hours had never passed before , since August began , without bringing them together in some way or other . 
It was a sad , anxious day and the morrow , though differing in the sort of evil , did by no means bring less . 
A few moments of feverish enjoyment were followed by hours of acute suffering . 
Henry Crawford was again in the house he walked up with Dr . 
Grant , who was anxious to pay his respects to Sir Thomas , and at rather an early hour they were ushered into the breakfast room , where were most of the family . 
Sir Thomas soon appeared , and Maria saw with delight and agitation the introduction of the man she loved to her father . 
The play should not be lost by his absence . 
From Bath , Norfolk , London , York , wherever I may be , said he I will attend you from any place in England , at an hour's notice . 
It was well at that moment that Tom had to speak , and not his sister . 
The painter was sent off yesterday , and very little will remain of the theatre to morrow . 
I knew how that would be from the first . 
It is early for Bath . 
You will find nobody there . 
It is about my uncle's usual time . 
When do you think of going ? I may , perhaps , get as far as Banbury to day . 
To her he soon turned , repeating much of what he had already said , with only a softened air and stronger expressions of regret . 
He might talk of necessity , but she knew his independence . 
He was gone he had touched her hand for the last time , he had made his parting bow , and she might seek directly all that solitude could do for her . 
Julia could rejoice that he was gone . 
His presence was beginning to be odious to her and if Maria gained him not , she was now cool enough to dispense with any other revenge . 
She did not want exposure to be added to desertion . 
Henry Crawford gone , she could even pity her sister . 
With a purer spirit did Fanny rejoice in the intelligence . 
She heard it at dinner , and felt it a blessing . 
In himself he was wearisome , but as the friend of Tom and the admirer of Julia he became offensive . 
Mrs. Norris contrived to remove one article from his sight that might have distressed him . 
CHAPTER XXI Sir Thomas's return made a striking change in the ways of the family , independent of Lovers' Vows . 
Under his government , Mansfield was an altered place . 
Some members of their society sent away , and the spirits of many others saddened it was all sameness and gloom compared with the past a sombre family party rarely enlivened . 
There was little intercourse with the Parsonage . 
Sir Thomas , drawing back from intimacies in general , was particularly disinclined , at this time , for any engagements but in one quarter . 
The Rushworths were the only addition to his own domestic circle which he could solicit . 
Edmund did not wonder that such should be his father's feelings , nor could he regret anything but the exclusion of the Grants . 
But they , he observed to Fanny , have a claim . 
They seem to belong to us they seem to be part of ourselves . 
I could wish my father were more sensible of their very great attention to my mother and sisters while he was away . 
I am afraid they may feel themselves neglected . 
But the truth is , that my father hardly knows them . 
They had not been here a twelvemonth when he left England . 
If he knew them better , he would value their society as it deserves for they are in fact exactly the sort of people he would like . 
We are sometimes a little in want of animation among ourselves my sisters seem out of spirits , and Tom is certainly not at his ease . 
and Mrs. Grant would enliven us , and make our evenings pass away with more enjoyment even to my father . 
Do you think so ? said Fanny in my opinion , my uncle would not like any addition . 
I think he values the very quietness you speak of , and that the repose of his own family circle is all he wants . 
And it does not appear to me that we are more serious than we used to be I mean before my uncle went abroad . 
As well as I can recollect , it was always much the same . 
There must be a sort of shyness but I cannot recollect that our evenings formerly were ever merry , except when my uncle was in town . 
No young people's are , I suppose , when those they look up to are at home . 
I believe you are right , Fanny , was his reply , after a short consideration . 
I believe our evenings are rather returned to what they were , than assuming a new character . 
The novelty was in their being lively . 
Yet , how strong the impression that only a few weeks will give ! I have been feeling as if we had never lived so before . 
I suppose I am graver than other people , said Fanny . 
The evenings do not appear long to me . 
I love to hear my uncle talk of the West Indies . 
I could listen to him for an hour together . 
It entertains me more than many other things have done but then I am unlike other people , I dare say . 
Why should you dare say that ? . 
Such language was so new to Fanny that it quite embarrassed her . 
Your uncle thinks you very pretty , dear Fanny and that is the long and the short of the matter . 
Your complexion is so improved ! and you have gained so much countenance ! and your figure nay , Fanny , do not turn away about it it is but an uncle . 
If you cannot bear an uncle's admiration , what is to become of you ? You must really begin to harden yourself to the idea of being worth looking at . 
You must try not to mind growing up into a pretty woman . 
You are one of those who are too silent in the evening circle . 
But I do talk to him more than I used . 
I am sure I do . 
Did not you hear me ask him about the slave trade last night ? I did and was in hopes the question would be followed up by others . 
It would have pleased your uncle to be inquired of farther . 
Miss Crawford was very right in what she said of you the other day that you seemed almost as fearful of notice and praise as other women were of neglect . 
We were talking of you at the Parsonage , and those were her words . 
I know nobody who distinguishes characters better . 
Could they be much together , I feel sure of their liking each other . 
He would enjoy her liveliness and she has talents to value his powers . 
I wish they met more frequently ! I hope she does not suppose there is any dislike on his side . 
She must know herself too secure of the regard of all the rest of you , said Fanny , with half a sigh , to have any such apprehension . 
And Sir Thomas's wishing just at first to be only with his family , is so very natural , that she can argue nothing from that . 
After a little while , I dare say , we shall be meeting again in the same sort of way , allowing for the difference of the time of year . 
This is the first October that she has passed in the country since her infancy . 
Miss Crawford's kind opinion of herself deserved at least a grateful forbearance , and she began to talk of something else . 
To morrow , I think , my uncle dines at Sotherton , and you and Mr. Bertram too . 
We shall be quite a small party at home . 
I hope my uncle may continue to like Mr. Rushworth . 
That is impossible , Fanny . 
He must like him less after to morrow's visit , for we shall be five hours in his company . 
I should dread the stupidity of the day , if there were not a much greater evil to follow the impression it must leave on Sir Thomas . 
He cannot much longer deceive himself . 
I am sorry for them all , and would give something that Rushworth and Maria had never met . 
In this quarter , indeed , disappointment was impending over Sir Thomas . 
He had expected a very different son in law and beginning to feel grave on Maria's account , tried to understand her feelings . 
Little observation there was necessary to tell him that indifference was the most favourable state they could be in . 
Her behaviour to Mr. Rushworth was careless and cold . 
She could not , did not like him . 
Sir Thomas resolved to speak seriously to her . 
Advantageous as would be the alliance , and long standing and public as was the engagement , her happiness must not be sacrificed to it . 
Mr. Rushworth had , perhaps , been accepted on too short an acquaintance , and , on knowing him better , she was repenting . 
He would act for her and release her . 
She had the highest esteem for Mr. Rushworth's character and disposition , and could not have a doubt of her happiness with him . 
Sir Thomas was satisfied too glad to be satisfied , perhaps , to urge the matter quite so far as his judgment might have dictated to others . 
It was an alliance which he could not have relinquished without pain and thus he reasoned . 
Mr. Rushworth was young enough to improve . 
To her the conference closed as satisfactorily as to him . 
Henry Crawford had destroyed her happiness , but he should not know that he had done it he should not destroy her credit , her appearance , her prosperity , too . 
He should not have to think of her as pining in the retirement of Mansfield for him , rejecting Sotherton and London , independence and splendour , for his sake . 
Independence was more needful than ever the want of it at Mansfield more sensibly felt . 
She was less and less able to endure the restraint which her father imposed . 
The liberty which his absence had given was now become absolutely necessary . 
She must escape from him and Mansfield as soon as possible , and find consolation in fortune and consequence , bustle and the world , for a wounded spirit . 
Her mind was quite determined , and varied not . 
To such feelings delay , even the delay of much preparation , would have been an evil , and Mr. Rushworth could hardly be more impatient for the marriage than herself . 
The preparations of new carriages and furniture might wait for London and spring , when her own taste could have fairer play . 
The principals being all agreed in this respect , it soon appeared that a very few weeks would be sufficient for such arrangements as must precede the wedding . 
It was a very proper wedding . 
In everything else the etiquette of the day might stand the strictest investigation . 
It was done , and they were gone . 
Sir Thomas felt as an anxious father must feel , and was indeed experiencing much of the agitation which his wife had been apprehensive of for herself , but had fortunately escaped . 
The plan of the young couple was to proceed , after a few days , to Brighton , and take a house there for some weeks . 
Every public place was new to Maria , and Brighton is almost as gay in winter as in summer . 
When the novelty of amusement there was over , it would be time for the wider range of London . 
Julia was to go with them to Brighton . 
Their departure made another material change at Mansfield , a chasm which required some time to fill up . 
The family circle became greatly contracted and though the Miss Bertrams had latterly added little to its gaiety , they could not but be missed . 
Not only at home did her value increase , but at the Parsonage too . 
Her visits there , beginning by chance , were continued by solicitation . 
A civil servant she had withstood but when Dr . 
The value of an event on a wet day in the country was most forcibly brought before her . 
Grant's carriage and horses out to take her home , with which she was threatened . 
To Fanny herself it appeared a very simple and natural circumstance . 
She played till Fanny's eyes , straying to the window on the weather's being evidently fair , spoke what she felt must be done . 
Another quarter of an hour , said Miss Crawford , and we shall see how it will be . 
Do not run away the first moment of its holding up . 
But they are passed over , said Fanny . 
I have been watching them . 
This weather is all from the south . 
South or north , I know a black cloud when I see it and you must not set forward while it is so threatening . 
And besides , I want to play something more to you a very pretty piece and your cousin Edmund's prime favourite . 
You must stay and hear your cousin's favourite . 
There seems something more speakingly incomprehensible in the powers , the failures , the inequalities of memory , than in any other of our intelligences . 
Miss Crawford , untouched and inattentive , had nothing to say and Fanny , perceiving it , brought back her own mind to what she thought must interest . 
It may seem impertinent in me to praise , but I must admire the taste Mrs. Grant has shewn in all this . 
I am so glad to see the evergreens thrive ! said Fanny , in reply . 
My uncle's gardener always says the soil here is better than his own , and so it appears from the growth of the laurels and evergreens in general . 
One cannot fix one's eyes on the commonest natural production without finding food for a rambling fancy . 
To say the truth , replied Miss Crawford , I am something like the famous Doge at the court of Lewis XIV . 
and may declare that I see no wonder in this shrubbery equal to seeing myself in it . 
I have now been here nearly five months and , moreover , the quietest five months I ever passed . 
Too quiet for you , I believe . 
I should have thought so theoretically myself , but , and her eyes brightened as she spoke , take it all and all , I never spent so happy a summer . 
But then , with a more thoughtful air and lowered voice , there is no saying what it may lead to . 
Fanny's heart beat quick , and she felt quite unequal to surmising or soliciting anything more . 
Miss Crawford , however , with renewed animation , soon went on I am conscious of being far better reconciled to a country residence than I had ever expected to be . 
I can even suppose it pleasant to spend half the year in the country , under certain circumstances , very pleasant . 
There is nothing frightful in such a picture , is there , Miss Price ? One need not envy the new Mrs. Rushworth with such a home as that . 
Envy Mrs. Rushworth ! was all that Fanny attempted to say . 
I expect we shall be all very much at Sotherton another year . 
Fanny was silent , and Miss Crawford relapsed into thoughtfulness , till suddenly looking up at the end of a few minutes , she exclaimed , Ah ! here he is . 
It was not Mr. Rushworth , however , but Edmund , who then appeared walking towards them with Mrs. Grant . 
My sister and Mr. Bertram . 
I am so glad your eldest cousin is gone , that he may be Mr. Bertram again . 
There is something in the sound of Mr. Edmund Bertram so formal , so pitiful , so younger brother like , that I detest it . 
How differently we feel ! cried Fanny . 
To me , the sound of Mr. Bertram is so cold and nothing meaning , so entirely without warmth or character ! It just stands for a gentleman , and that's all . 
But there is nobleness in the name of Edmund . 
It is a name of heroism and renown of kings , princes , and knights and seems to breathe the spirit of chivalry and warm affections . 
It was the first time of his seeing them together since the beginning of that better acquaintance which he had been hearing of with great satisfaction . 
They cannot have been sitting long , cried Mrs. Grant , for when I went up for my shawl I saw them from the staircase window , and then they were walking . 
And really , added Edmund , the day is so mild , that your sitting down for a few minutes can be hardly thought imprudent . 
Our weather must not always be judged by the calendar . 
We may sometimes take greater liberties in November than in May . 
Upon my word , cried Miss Crawford , you are two of the most disappointing and unfeeling kind friends I ever met with ! There is no giving you a moment's uneasiness . 
Do not flatter yourself , my dearest Mary . 
You have not the smallest chance of moving me . 
Grant would enjoy it on Sunday after the fatigues of the day , will not keep beyond to morrow . 
These are something like grievances , and make me think the weather most unseasonably close . 
The sweets of housekeeping in a country village ! said Miss Crawford archly . 
Commend me to the nurseryman and the poulterer . 
My dear child , commend Dr . 
Grant to the deanery of Westminster or St . 
Paul's , and I should be as glad of your nurseryman and poulterer as you could be . 
But we have no such people in Mansfield . 
What would you have me do ? Oh ! you can do nothing but what you do already be plagued very often , and never lose your temper . 
Their remoteness and unpunctuality , or their exorbitant charges and frauds , will be drawing forth bitter lamentations . 
I mean to be too rich to lament or to feel anything of the sort . 
A large income is the best recipe for happiness I ever heard of . 
It certainly may secure all the myrtle and turkey part of it . 
You intend to be very rich ? said Edmund , with a look which , to Fanny's eye , had a great deal of serious meaning . 
Do not you ? Do not we all ? I cannot intend anything which it must be so completely beyond my power to command . 
Miss Crawford may chuse her degree of wealth . 
She has only to fix on her number of thousands a year , and there can be no doubt of their coming . 
My intentions are only not to be poor . 
By moderation and economy , and bringing down your wants to your income , and all that . 
I understand you and a very proper plan it is for a person at your time of life , with such limited means and indifferent connexions . 
Be honest and poor , by all means but I shall not envy you I do not much think I shall even respect you . 
I have a much greater respect for those that are honest and rich . 
Your degree of respect for honesty , rich or poor , is precisely what I have no manner of concern with . 
I do not mean to be poor . 
Poverty is exactly what I have determined against . 
Honesty , in the something between , in the middle state of worldly circumstances , is all that I am anxious for your not looking down on . 
But I do look down upon it , if it might have been higher . 
I must look down upon anything contented with obscurity when it might rise to distinction . 
Grant was in the vestibule , and as they stopt to speak to him she found , from Edmund's manner , that he did mean to go with her . 
He too was taking leave . 
She could not but be thankful . 
In the moment of parting , Edmund was invited by Dr . 
Very well , very well , cried Dr . 
Grant , all the better I am glad to hear you have anything so good in the house . 
But Miss Price and Mr. Edmund Bertram , I dare say , would take their chance . 
We none of us want to hear the bill of fare . 
A friendly meeting , and not a fine dinner , is all we have in view . 
A turkey , or a goose , or a leg of mutton , or whatever you and your cook chuse to give us . 
CHAPTER XXIII But why should Mrs. Grant ask Fanny ? said Lady Bertram . 
How came she to think of asking Fanny ? Fanny never dines there , you know , in this sort of way . 
I cannot spare her , and I am sure she does not want to go . 
I cannot imagine why Mrs. Grant should think of asking her ? She never did before . 
She used to ask your sisters now and then , but she never asked Fanny . 
If you cannot do without me , ma'am said Fanny , in a self denying tone . 
But my mother will have my father with her all the evening . 
To be sure , so I shall . 
Suppose you take my father's opinion , ma'am . 
So I will , Edmund . 
I will ask Sir Thomas , as soon as he comes in , whether I can do without her . 
But he will be very much surprised that Mrs. Grant should ask Fanny at all . 
Her tone of calm languor , for she never took the trouble of raising her voice , was always heard and attended to and Sir Thomas came back . 
Her story began and Fanny immediately slipped out of the room for to hear herself the subject of any discussion with her uncle was more than her nerves could bear . 
Her cause , meanwhile , went on well . 
It began , on Lady Bertram's part , with I have something to tell you that will surprise you . 
Mrs. Grant has asked Fanny to dinner . 
Well , said Sir Thomas , as if waiting more to accomplish the surprise . 
Edmund wants her to go . 
He told the whole and she had only to add , So strange ! for Mrs. Grant never used to ask her . 
Mrs. Grant's shewing civility to Miss Price , to Lady Bertram's niece , could never want explanation . 
The only surprise I can feel is , that this should be the first time of its being paid . 
Fanny was perfectly right in giving only a conditional answer . 
She appears to feel as she ought . 
But as I conclude that she must wish to go , since all young people like to be together , I can see no reason why she should be denied the indulgence . 
But can I do without her , Sir Thomas ? Indeed I think you may . 
She always makes tea , you know , when my sister is not here . 
Your sister , perhaps , may be prevailed on to spend the day with us , and I shall certainly be at home . 
Very well , then , Fanny may go , Edmund . 
The good news soon followed her . 
Edmund knocked at her door in his way to his own . 
Well , Fanny , it is all happily settled , and without the smallest hesitation on your uncle's side . 
He had but one opinion . 
Nor must you be fancying that the invitation is meant as any particular compliment to you the compliment is intended to your uncle and aunt and me . 
Oh ! depend upon it , your aunt can do very well without you , or you would not be allowed to go . 
I shall be here , so you may be quite easy about your aunt . 
And I hope you will have a very agreeable day , and find it all mighty delightful . 
Five only five to be sitting round that table . 
However , you will have dinner enough on it for ten , I dare say . 
Mrs. Norris fetched breath , and went on again . 
That will never do , believe me . 
And as to coming away at night , you are to stay just as long as Edmund chuses . 
Leave him to settle that . 
Yes , ma'am , I should not think of anything else . 
Her niece thought it perfectly reasonable . 
My dear Sir Thomas ! cried Mrs. Norris , red with anger , Fanny can walk . 
Walk ! repeated Sir Thomas , in a tone of most unanswerable dignity , and coming farther into the room . 
I observed he was hoarse on Thursday night . 
But this could not impose on Fanny . 
What have you got on ? The new dress that my uncle was so good as to give me on my cousin's marriage . 
I hope it is not too fine but I thought I ought to wear it as soon as I could , and that I might not have such another opportunity all the winter . 
I hope you do not think me too fine . 
A woman can never be too fine while she is all in white . 
No , I see no finery about you nothing but what is perfectly proper . 
Your gown seems very pretty . 
I like these glossy spots . 
Has not Miss Crawford a gown something the same ? In approaching the Parsonage they passed close by the stable yard and coach house . 
He is here , of course . 
This is quite a surprise , Fanny . 
I shall be very glad to see him . 
Her opinion was sought as to the probable continuance of the open weather , but her answers were as short and indifferent as civility allowed . 
She could not wish him to stay , and would much rather not have him speak to her . 
Her two absent cousins , especially Maria , were much in her thoughts on seeing him but no embarrassing remembrance affected his spirits . 
Grant , which seemed entirely to engross them , and Mrs. Grant occupied at the tea table , he began talking of them with more particularity to his other sister . 
And Mr. Yates , I presume , is not far off . 
Mr. Yates ! Oh ! we hear nothing of Mr. Yates . 
Poor Rushworth and his two and forty speeches ! continued Crawford . 
Nobody can ever forget them . 
Poor fellow ! I see him now his toil and his despair . 
And then changing his tone again to one of gentle gallantry , and addressing Fanny , he said , You were Mr. Rushworth's best friend . 
Fanny coloured , and said nothing . 
It is as a dream , a pleasant dream ! he exclaimed , breaking forth again , after a few minutes' musing . 
I shall always look back on our theatricals with exquisite pleasure . 
There was such an interest , such an animation , such a spirit diffused . 
There was employment , hope , solicitude , bustle , for every hour of the day . 
Always some little objection , some little doubt , some little anxiety to be got over . 
Another week , only one other week , would have been enough for us . 
Not that we would have endangered his safety by any tremendous weather but only by a steady contrary wind , or a calm . 
I think , Miss Price , we would have indulged ourselves with a week's calm in the Atlantic at that season . 
My uncle disapproved it all so entirely when he did arrive , that in my opinion everything had gone quite far enough . 
It was more pleasant than prudent . 
We were getting too noisy . 
And then turning the conversation , he would have engaged her on some other subject , but her answers were so shy and reluctant that he could not advance in any . 
Miss Crawford , who had been repeatedly eyeing Dr . 
Grant and Edmund , now observed , Those gentlemen must have some very interesting point to discuss . 
The most interesting in the world , replied her brother how to make money how to turn a good income into a better . 
Grant is giving Bertram instructions about the living he is to step into so soon . 
I find he takes orders in a few weeks . 
They were at it in the dining parlour . 
I am glad to hear Bertram will be so well off . 
He will have a very pretty income to make ducks and drakes with , and earned without much trouble . 
I apprehend he will not have less than seven hundred a year . 
You would look rather blank , Henry , if your menus plaisirs were to be limited to seven hundred a year . 
Perhaps I might but all that you know is entirely comparative . 
Birthright and habit must settle the business . 
Bertram is certainly well off for a cadet of even a baronet's family . 
By the time he is four or five and twenty he will have seven hundred a year , and nothing to do for it . 
Bertram , said Henry Crawford , I shall make a point of coming to Mansfield to hear you preach your first sermon . 
I shall come on purpose to encourage a young beginner . 
When will it be ? You must preach at Mansfield , you know , that Sir Thomas and Lady Bertram may hear you . 
Will he not feel this ? thought Fanny . 
No , he can feel nothing as he ought . 
Miss Crawford was too much vexed by what had passed to be in a humour for anything but music . 
With that she soothed herself and amused her friend . 
She was very angry with him . 
She had thought her influence more . 
She had begun to think of him she felt that she had , with great regard , with almost decided intentions but she would now meet him with his own cool feelings . 
It was plain that he could have no serious views , no true attachment , by fixing himself in a situation which he must know she would never stoop to . 
She would learn to match him in his indifference . 
She would henceforth admit his attentions without any idea beyond immediate amusement . 
If he could so command his affections , hers should do her no harm . 
Not exactly , though I shall be happy to do both , but that would be exercise only to my body , and I must take care of my mind . 
Besides , that would be all recreation and indulgence , without the wholesome alloy of labour , and I do not like to eat the bread of idleness . 
No , my plan is to make Fanny Price in love with me . 
Fanny Price ! Nonsense ! No , no . 
You ought to be satisfied with her two cousins . 
But I cannot be satisfied without Fanny Price , without making a small hole in Fanny Price's heart . 
You do not seem properly aware of her claims to notice . 
When we talked of her last night , you none of you seemed sensible of the wonderful improvement that has taken place in her looks within the last six weeks . 
You see her every day , and therefore do not notice it but I assure you she is quite a different creature from what she was in the autumn . 
She was then merely a quiet , modest , not plain looking girl , but she is now absolutely pretty . 
And then , her air , her manner , her tout ensemble , is so indescribably improved ! She must be grown two inches , at least , since October . 
She is just what she was in October , believe me . 
The truth is , that she was the only girl in company for you to notice , and you must have a somebody . 
I have always thought her pretty not strikingly pretty but 'pretty enough , as people say a sort of beauty that grows on one . 
Her brother gave only a smile to this accusation , and soon afterwards said , I do not quite know what to make of Miss Fanny . 
I do not understand her . 
I could not tell what she would be at yesterday . 
Her looks say , 'I will not like you , I am determined not to like you' and I say she shall . 
It can be but for a fortnight , said Henry and if a fortnight can kill her , she must have a constitution which nothing could save . 
Moderation itself ! said Mary . 
I can have no scruples now . 
Well , you will have opportunities enough of endeavouring to recommend yourself , for we are a great deal together . 
of such a man as Crawford , in spite of there being some previous ill opinion of him to be overcome , had not her affection been engaged elsewhere . 
William , her brother , the so long absent and dearly loved brother , was in England again . 
He proved , however , to be too late . 
All those fine first feelings , of which he had hoped to be the exciter , were already given . 
This dear William would soon be amongst them . 
That time , however , did gradually come , forwarded by an affection on his side as warm as her own , and much less encumbered by refinement or self distrust . 
all the evil and good of their earliest years could be gone over again , and every former united pain and pleasure retraced with the fondest recollection . 
An advantage this , a strengthener of love , in which even the conjugal tie is beneath the fraternal . 
Too often , alas ! it is so . 
Fraternal love , sometimes almost everything , is at others worse than nothing . 
An affection so amiable was advancing each in the opinion of all who had hearts to value anything good . 
Henry Crawford was as much struck with it as any . 
It was a picture which Henry Crawford had moral taste enough to value . 
Fanny's attractions increased increased twofold for the sensibility which beautified her complexion and illumined her countenance was an attraction in itself . 
He was no longer in doubt of the capabilities of her heart . 
She had feeling , genuine feeling . 
It would be something to be loved by such a girl , to excite the first ardours of her young unsophisticated mind ! She interested him more than he had foreseen . 
A fortnight was not enough . 
William was often called on by his uncle to be the talker . 
Young as he was , William had already seen a great deal . 
To Henry Crawford they gave a different feeling . 
He longed to have been at sea , and seen and done and suffered as much . 
In one respect it was better , as it gave him the means of conferring a kindness where he wished to oblige . 
End volume one of this edition . 
from giving a more willing assent to invitations on that account . 
Luckily Sir Thomas was at hand . 
What shall I do , Sir Thomas ? Whist and speculation which will amuse me most ? Sir Thomas , after a moment's thought , recommended speculation . 
He was a whist player himself , and perhaps might feel that it would not much amuse him to have her for a partner . 
Very well , was her ladyship's contented answer then speculation , if you please , Mrs. Grant . 
I know nothing about it , but Fanny must teach me . 
and Mrs. Grant being seated at the table of prime intellectual state and dignity , the remaining six , under Miss Crawford's direction , were arranged round the other . 
I hope your ladyship is pleased with the game . 
Oh dear , yes ! very entertaining indeed . 
I do not know what it is all about . 
I am never to see my cards and Mr. Crawford does all the rest . 
I found myself , in short , in Thornton Lacey . 
You inquired , then ? No , I never inquire . 
But I told a man mending a hedge that it was Thornton Lacey , and he agreed to it . 
You have a good memory . 
I had forgotten having ever told you half so much of the place . 
Thornton Lacey was the name of his impending living , as Miss Crawford well knew and her interest in a negotiation for William Price's knave increased . 
Well , continued Edmund , and how did you like what you saw ? Very much indeed . 
You are a lucky fellow . 
There will be work for five summers at least before the place is liveable . 
No , no , not so bad as that . 
The farmyard must be moved , I grant you but I am not aware of anything else . 
The house is by no means bad , and when the yard is removed , there may be a very tolerable approach to it . 
The farmyard must be cleared away entirely , and planted up to shut out the blacksmith's shop . 
And there must be your approach , through what is at present the garden . 
You must make a new garden at what is now the back of the house which will be giving it the best aspect in the world , sloping to the south east . 
The ground seems precisely formed for it . 
I rode fifty yards up the lane , between the church and the house , in order to look about me and saw how it might all be . 
They belong to the living , I suppose if not , you must purchase them . 
Then the stream something must be done with the stream but I could not quite determine what . 
I had two or three ideas . 
And I have two or three ideas also , said Edmund , and one of them is , that very little of your plan for Thornton Lacey will ever be put in practice . 
I must be satisfied with rather less ornament and beauty . 
No cold prudence for me . 
I am not born to sit still and do nothing . 
If I lose the game , it shall not be from not striving for it . 
The game was hers , and only did not pay her for what she had given to secure it . 
Another deal proceeded , and Crawford began again about Thornton Lacey . 
My plan may not be the best possible I had not many minutes to form it in but you must do a good deal . 
The place deserves it , and you will find yourself not satisfied with much less than it is capable of . 
The place deserves it , Bertram . 
You talk of giving it the air of a gentleman's residence . 
Miss Crawford listened , and Edmund agreed to this . 
The air of a gentleman's residence , therefore , you cannot but give it , if you do anything . 
But it is capable of much more . 
you may give it a higher character . 
You may raise it into a place . 
From being the mere gentleman's residence , it becomes , by judicious improvement , the residence of a man of education , taste , modern manners , good connexions . 
You have bought her too dearly , and your brother does not offer half her value . 
No , no , sir , hands off , hands off . 
Your sister does not part with the queen . 
The game will be yours , turning to her again it will certainly be yours . 
And Fanny had much rather it were William's , said Edmund , smiling at her . 
I see things very differently now . 
Do not think of me as I appeared then . 
Sotherton was a word to catch Mrs. Norris , and being just then in the happy leisure which followed securing the odd trick by Sir Thomas's capital play and her own against Dr . 
and Mrs. Grant's great hands , she called out , in high good humour , Sotherton ! Yes , that is a place , indeed , and we had a charming day there . 
Your cousins are not of a sort to forget their relations , and Mr. Rushworth is a most amiable man . 
They are at Brighton now , you know in one of the best houses there , as Mr. Rushworth's fine fortune gives them a right to be . 
As yet Sir Thomas had seen nothing to remark in Mr. Crawford's behaviour but when the whist table broke up at the end of the second rubber , and leaving Dr . 
, though that consideration had certainly some weight , feeling as he did that , in spite of all Dr . 
Sir Thomas heard and was not offended . 
Finding by whom he was observed , Henry Crawford addressed himself on the same subject to Sir Thomas , in a more everyday tone , but still with feeling . 
I want to be your neighbour , Sir Thomas , as you have , perhaps , heard me telling Miss Price . 
Certainly , sir , I have no idea but of residence . 
But , Crawford , though I refuse you as a tenant , come to me as a friend . 
We shall be the losers , continued Sir Thomas . 
It is perfectly natural that you should not have thought much on the subject , Mr. Crawford . 
But a parish has wants and claims which can be known only by a clergyman constantly resident , and which no proxy can be capable of satisfying to the same extent . 
Mr. Crawford bowed his acquiescence . 
I repeat again , added Sir Thomas , that Thornton Lacey is the only house in the neighbourhood in which I should not be happy to wait on Mr. Crawford as occupier . 
Mr. Crawford bowed his thanks . 
Sir Thomas , said Edmund , undoubtedly understands the duty of a parish priest . 
We must hope his son may prove that he knows it too . 
All the agreeable of her speculation was over for that hour . 
The chief of the party were now collected irregularly round the fire , and waiting the final break up . 
William and Fanny were the most detached . 
They remained together at the otherwise deserted card table , talking very comfortably , and not thinking of the rest , till some of the rest began to think of them . 
This is the assembly night , said William . 
If I were at Portsmouth I should be at it , perhaps . 
But you do not wish yourself at Portsmouth , William ? No , Fanny , that I do not . 
I shall have enough of Portsmouth and of dancing too , when I cannot have you . 
And I do not know that there would be any good in going to the assembly , for I might not get a partner . 
The Portsmouth girls turn up their noses at anybody who has not a commission . 
One might as well be nothing as a midshipman . 
One is nothing , indeed . 
You remember the Gregorys they are grown up amazing fine girls , but they will hardly speak to me , because Lucy is courted by a lieutenant . 
It is not worth minding . 
It is no reflection on you it is no more than what the greatest admirals have all experienced , more or less , in their time . 
When you are a lieutenant ! only think , William , when you are a lieutenant , how little you will care for any nonsense of this kind . 
I begin to think I shall never be a lieutenant , Fanny . 
Everybody gets made but me . 
Oh ! my dear William , do not talk so do not be so desponding . 
My uncle says nothing , but I am sure he will do everything in his power to get you made . 
He knows , as well as you do , of what consequence it is . 
She was checked by the sight of her uncle much nearer to them than she had any suspicion of , and each found it necessary to talk of something else . 
Are you fond of dancing , Fanny ? Yes , very only I am soon tired . 
I should like to go to a ball with you and see you dance . 
Some very grave reproof , or at least the coldest expression of indifference , must be coming to distress her brother , and sink her to the ground . 
But , on the contrary , it was no worse than , I am sorry to say that I am unable to answer your question . 
it must be at some other time . 
There is one person in company who does not like to have Miss Price spoken of . 
Come , Fanny , Fanny , what are you about ? We are going . 
Do not you see your aunt is going ? Quick , quick ! I cannot bear to keep good old Wilcox waiting . 
You should always remember the coachman and horses . 
My dear Sir Thomas , we have settled it that the carriage should come back for you , and Edmund and William . 
CHAPTER XXVI William's desire of seeing Fanny dance made more than a momentary impression on his uncle . 
The hope of an opportunity , which Sir Thomas had then given , was not given to be thought of no more . 
It would give me pleasure to see you both dance . 
You spoke of the balls at Northampton . 
Your cousins have occasionally attended them but they would not altogether suit us now . 
The fatigue would be too much for your aunt . 
I believe we must not think of a Northampton ball . 
A dance at home would be more eligible and if Ah , my dear Sir Thomas ! interrupted Mrs. Norris , I knew what was coming . 
I knew what you were going to say . 
If they were at home to grace the ball , a ball you would have this very Christmas . 
Could we be all assembled , our satisfaction would undoubtedly be more complete , but the absence of some is not to debar the others of amusement . 
Mrs. Norris had not another word to say . 
She saw decision in his looks , and her surprise and vexation required some minutes' silence to be settled into composure . 
A ball at such a time ! His daughters absent and herself not consulted ! There was comfort , however , soon at hand . 
She must be the doer of everything Lady Bertram would of course be spared all thought and exertion , and it would all fall upon her . 
Edmund , William , and Fanny did , in their different ways , look and speak as much grateful pleasure in the promised ball as Sir Thomas could desire . 
Edmund's feelings were for the other two . 
His father had never conferred a favour or shewn a kindness more to his satisfaction . 
Lady Bertram was perfectly quiescent and contented , and had no objections to make . 
The ball was now a settled thing , and before the evening a proclaimed thing to all whom it concerned . 
Invitations were sent with despatch , and many a young lady went to bed that night with her head full of happy cares as well as Fanny . 
These were anxious considerations enough to sober her spirits even under the prospect of a ball given principally for her gratification . 
The preparations meanwhile went on , and Lady Bertram continued to sit on her sofa without any inconvenience from them . 
On the rd he was going to a friend near Peterborough , in the same situation as himself , and they were to receive ordination in the course of the Christmas week . 
Half his destiny would then be determined , but the other half might not be so very smoothly wooed . 
His duties would be established , but the wife who was to share , and animate , and reward those duties , might yet be unattainable . 
He knew his own mind , but he was not always perfectly assured of knowing Miss Crawford's . 
The issue of all depended on one question . 
Independent of his two cousins' enjoyment in it , the evening was to him of no higher value than any other appointed meeting of the two families might be . 
and Mrs. Grant , who were together in the drawing room . 
Miss Crawford , pleased with the appeal , gave her all her best judgment and taste , made everything easy by her suggestions , and tried to make everything agreeable by her encouragement . 
The dress being settled in all its grander parts But what shall you have by way of necklace ? said Miss Crawford . 
Shall not you wear your brother's cross ? And as she spoke she was undoing a small parcel , which Fanny had observed in her hand when they met . 
Fanny acknowledged her wishes and doubts on this point she did not know how either to wear the cross , or to refrain from wearing it . 
She was answered by having a small trinket box placed before her , and being requested to chuse from among several gold chains and necklaces . 
You see what a collection I have , said she more by half than I ever use or think of . 
I do not offer them as new . 
I offer nothing but an old necklace . 
You must forgive the liberty , and oblige me . 
Fanny still resisted , and from her heart . 
The gift was too valuable . 
Miss Crawford smiled her perfect approbation and hastened to complete the gift by putting the necklace round her , and making her see how well it looked . 
Fanny had not a word to say against its becomingness , and , excepting what remained of her scruples , was exceedingly pleased with an acquisition so very apropos . 
She would rather , perhaps , have been obliged to some other person . 
But this was an unworthy feeling . 
Miss Crawford had anticipated her wants with a kindness which proved her a real friend . 
When I wear this necklace I shall always think of you , said she , and feel how very kind you were . 
You must think of somebody else too , when you wear that necklace , replied Miss Crawford . 
You must think of Henry , for it was his choice in the first place . 
He gave it to me , and with the necklace I make over to you all the duty of remembering the original giver . 
It is to be a family remembrancer . 
The sister is not to be in your mind without bringing the brother too . 
Fanny , in great astonishment and confusion , would have returned the present instantly . 
Miss Crawford thought she had never seen a prettier consciousness . 
Its being a gift of my brother's need not make the smallest difference in your accepting it , as I assure you it makes none in my willingness to part with it . 
He is always giving me something or other . 
I have such innumerable presents from him that it is quite impossible for me to value or for him to remember half . 
Say no more against it , I entreat you . 
Such a trifle is not worth half so many words . 
It was impossible for her to be insensible of Mr. Crawford's change of manners . 
She had long seen it . 
Fanny , said he directly , leaving his seat and his pen , and meeting her with something in his hand , I beg your pardon for being here . 
I came to look for you , and after waiting a little while in hope of your coming in , was making use of your inkstand to explain my errand . 
I hope you will like the chain itself , Fanny . 
I cannot attempt to thank you , she continued , in a very agitated manner thanks are out of the question . 
I feel much more than I can possibly express . 
Your goodness in thinking of me in such a way is beyond If that is all you have to say , Fanny smiling and turning away again . 
No , no , it is not . 
I want to consult you . 
It will exactly suit my cross . 
They must and shall be worn together . 
It comes , too , in such an acceptable moment . 
Oh , cousin , you do not know how acceptable it is . 
My dear Fanny , you feel these things a great deal too much . 
I am most happy that you like the chain , and that it should be here in time for to morrow but your thanks are far beyond the occasion . 
Believe me , I have no pleasure in the world superior to that of contributing to yours . 
No , I can safely say , I have no pleasure so complete , so unalloyed . 
It is without a drawback . 
Return the necklace ! No , my dear Fanny , upon no account . 
It would be mortifying her severely . 
There can hardly be a more unpleasant sensation than the having anything returned on our hands which we have given with a reasonable hope of its contributing to the comfort of a friend . 
No doubt it is handsomer than mine , and fitter for a ballroom . 
No , it is not handsomer , not at all handsomer in its way , and , for my purpose , not half so fit . 
The chain will agree with William's cross beyond all comparison better than the necklace . 
I would not have the shadow of a coolness arise , he repeated , his voice sinking a little , between the two dearest objects I have on earth . 
He was gone as he spoke and Fanny remained to tranquillise herself as she could . 
She was one of his two dearest that must support her . 
He would marry Miss Crawford . 
To call or to fancy it a loss , a disappointment , would be a presumption for which she had not words strong enough to satisfy her own humility . 
To think of him as Miss Crawford might be justified in thinking , would in her be insanity . 
To her he could be nothing under any circumstances nothing dearer than a friend . 
Why did such an idea occur to her even enough to be reprobated and forbidden ? It ought not to have touched on the confines of her imagination . 
Two lines more prized had never fallen from the pen of the most distinguished author never more completely blessed the researches of the fondest biographer . 
The enthusiasm of a woman's love is even beyond the biographer's . 
To her , the handwriting itself , independent of anything it may convey , is a blessedness . 
Mr. Crawford meant to be in town by his uncle's accustomary late dinner hour , and William was invited to dine with him at the Admiral's . 
Sir Thomas approved of it for another reason . 
His nephew's introduction to Admiral Crawford might be of service . 
The Admiral , he believed , had interest . 
Upon the whole , it was a very joyous note . 
Fanny's spirits lived on it half the morning , deriving some accession of pleasure from its writer being himself to go away . 
Miss Price , known only by name to half the people invited , was now to make her first appearance , and must be regarded as the queen of the evening . 
As she walked slowly upstairs she thought of yesterday it had been about the same hour that she had returned from the Parsonage , and found Edmund in the East room . 
Suppose I were to find him there again to day ! said she to herself , in a fond indulgence of fancy . 
Fanny , said a voice at that moment near her . 
Starting and looking up , she saw , across the lobby she had just reached , Edmund himself , standing at the head of a different staircase . 
You look tired and fagged , Fanny . 
You have been walking too far . 
No , I have not been out at all . 
Then you have had fatigues within doors , which are worse . 
You had better have gone out . 
He did not appear in spirits something unconnected with her was probably amiss . 
They proceeded upstairs together , their rooms being on the same floor above . 
Grant's , said Edmund presently . 
You may guess my errand there , Fanny . 
And he looked so conscious , that Fanny could think but of one errand , which turned her too sick for speech . 
she says it is to be the last time that she ever will dance with me . 
I think , I hope , I am sure she is not serious but I would rather not hear it . 
She never has danced with a clergyman , she says , and she never will . 
For my own sake , I could wish there had been no ball just at I mean not this very week , this very day to morrow I leave home . 
Fanny struggled for speech , and said , I am very sorry that anything has occurred to distress you . 
This ought to be a day of pleasure . 
My uncle meant it so . 
Oh yes , yes ! and it will be a day of pleasure . 
It will all end right . 
I am only vexed for a moment . 
You see how it is and could tell me , perhaps better than I could tell you , how and why I am vexed . 
Let me talk to you a little . 
You are a kind , kind listener . 
I have been pained by her manner this morning , and cannot get the better of it . 
She does not think evil , but she speaks it , speaks it in playfulness and though I know it to be playfulness , it grieves me to the soul . 
The effect of education , said Fanny gently . 
Edmund could not but agree to it . 
Do not ask advice of me . 
You are right , Fanny , to protest against such an office , but you need not be afraid . 
I only want to talk to you . 
Excuse the liberty but take care how you talk to me . 
Do not tell me anything now , which hereafter you may be sorry for . 
The time may come The colour rushed into her cheeks as she spoke . 
The time will never come . 
No such time as you allude to will ever come . 
He had said enough to shake the experience of eighteen . 
I cannot be afraid of hearing anything you wish to say . 
Tell me whatever you like . 
They were now on the second floor , and the appearance of a housemaid prevented any farther conversation . 
But as it was , they parted with looks on his side of grateful affection , and with some very precious sensations on hers . 
She had felt nothing like it for hours . 
William's good fortune returned again upon her mind , and seemed of greater value than at first . 
She had , to oblige Edmund , resolved to wear it but it was too large for the purpose . 
She acknowledged it to be right . 
The necklace really looked very well and Fanny left her room at last , comfortably satisfied with herself and all about her . 
Her aunt Bertram had recollected her on this occasion with an unusual degree of wakefulness . 
CHAPTER XXVIII Her uncle and both her aunts were in the drawing room when Fanny went down . 
To the former she was an interesting object , and he saw with pleasure the general elegance of her appearance , and her being in remarkably good looks . 
Yes , said Lady Bertram , she looks very well . 
I sent Chapman to her . 
Only think , my dear Sir Thomas , what extraordinary advantages you and I have been the means of giving her . 
The very gown you have been taking notice of is your own generous present to her when dear Mrs. Rushworth married . 
Fanny saw that she was approved and the consciousness of looking well made her look still better . 
She had nothing more to wish for . 
She had hardly ever been in a state so nearly approaching high spirits in her life . 
Half an hour followed that would have been at least languid under any other circumstances , but Fanny's happiness still prevailed . 
Fanny felt that there must be a struggle in Edmund's cheerfulness , but it was delightful to see the effort so successfully made . 
She was introduced here and there by her uncle , and forced to be spoken to , and to curtsey , and speak again . 
The entrance of the Grants and Crawfords was a favourable epoch . 
The stiffness of the meeting soon gave way before their popular manners and more diffused intimacies little groups were formed , and everybody grew comfortable . 
Her happiness on this occasion was very much a la mortal , finely chequered . 
Then she could gradually rise up to the genuine satisfaction of having a partner , a voluntary partner , secured against the dancing began . 
No other man would have thought of it . 
I honour him beyond expression . 
And she looked around as if longing to tell him so . 
Fanny's heart sunk , but there was no leisure for thinking long even of Miss Crawford's feelings . 
They were in the ballroom , the violins were playing , and her mind was in a flutter that forbade its fixing on anything serious . 
She must watch the general arrangements , and see how everything was done . 
In a few minutes Sir Thomas came to her , and asked if she were engaged and the Yes , sir to Mr. Crawford , was exactly what he had intended to hear . 
She could hardly believe it . 
To be placed above so many elegant young women ! The distinction was too great . 
She was attractive , she was modest , she was Sir Thomas's niece , and she was soon said to be admired by Mr. Crawford . 
It was enough to give her general favour . 
Yes , she does look very well , was Lady Bertram's placid reply . 
Chapman helped her to dress . 
I sent Chapman to her . 
Miss Crawford blundered most towards Fanny herself in her intentions to please . 
The first time he ever denied me his confidence ! But this is what we all come to . 
All are supplanted sooner or later . 
Now , I must apply to you for information . 
Pray , what is Henry going for ? Fanny protested her ignorance as steadily as her embarrassment allowed . 
Well , then , replied Miss Crawford , laughing , I must suppose it to be purely for the pleasure of conveying your brother , and of talking of you by the way . 
Fanny had a good deal of enjoyment in the course of the evening but Henry's attentions had very little to do with it . 
But still his attentions made no part of her satisfaction . 
She was happy even when they did take place but not from any flow of spirits on his side , or any such expressions of tender gallantry as had blessed the morning . 
His mind was fagged , and her happiness sprung from being the friend with whom it could find repose . 
I am worn out with civility , said he . 
I have been talking incessantly all night , and with nothing to say . 
But with you , Fanny , there may be peace . 
You will not want to be talked to . 
Let us have the luxury of silence . 
Fanny would hardly even speak her agreement . 
The evening had afforded Edmund little pleasure . 
They had talked , and they had been silent he had reasoned , she had ridiculed and they had parted at last with mutual vexation . 
Fanny , not able to refrain entirely from observing them , had seen enough to be tolerably satisfied . 
It was barbarous to be happy when Edmund was suffering . 
Yet some happiness must and would arise from the very conviction that he did suffer . 
From that time Mr. Crawford sat down likewise . 
I hope we shall keep it up these two hours . 
Well , then , Fanny , you shall not get up to morrow before I go . 
Sleep as long as you can , and never mind me . 
It will be the last time , you know the last morning . 
He is to have breakfasted and be gone by half past nine . 
And in a lower tone to Fanny , I shall have only a desolate house to hurry from . 
Your brother will find my ideas of time and his own very different to morrow . 
Mr. Crawford was in love with Fanny . 
He had a pleasing anticipation of what would be . 
His niece , meanwhile , did not thank him for what he had just done . 
She had hoped to have William all to herself the last morning . 
It would have been an unspeakable indulgence . 
But though her wishes were overthrown , there was no spirit of murmuring within her . 
Shortly afterward , Sir Thomas was again interfering a little with her inclination , by advising her to go immediately to bed . 
In thus sending her away , Sir Thomas perhaps might not be thinking merely of her health . 
It might occur to him that Mr. Crawford had been sitting by her long enough , or he might mean to recommend her as a wife by shewing her persuadableness . 
CHAPTER XXIX The ball was over , and the breakfast was soon over too the last kiss was given , and William was gone . 
Mr. Crawford had , as he foretold , been very punctual , and short and pleasant had been the meal . 
She sat and cried con amore as her uncle intended , but it was con amore fraternal and no other . 
William was gone , and she now felt as if she had wasted half his visit in idle cares and selfish solicitudes unconnected with him . 
It was a heavy , melancholy day . 
Soon after the second breakfast , Edmund bade them good bye for a week , and mounted his horse for Peterborough , and then all were gone . 
Nothing remained of last night but remembrances , which she had nobody to share in . 
Lady Bertram was not certain of anybody's dress or anybody's place at supper but her own . 
The evening was heavy like the day . 
I cannot think what is the matter with me , said Lady Bertram , when the tea things were removed . 
It must be sitting up so late last night . 
Fanny , you must do something to keep me awake . 
Fetch the cards I feel so very stupid . 
Last night it had been hope and smiles , bustle and motion , noise and brilliancy , in the drawing room , and out of the drawing room , and everywhere . 
Now it was languor , and all but solitude . 
A good night's rest improved her spirits . 
But this must be learned to be endured . 
William was kindly commended and his promotion hoped for . 
And there is no reason to suppose , added Sir Thomas , but that his visits to us may now be tolerably frequent . 
As to Edmund , we must learn to do without him . 
This will be the last winter of his belonging to us , as he has done . 
Yes , said Lady Bertram , but I wish he was not going away . 
They are all going away , I think . 
I wish they would stay at home . 
A great deal of good sense followed on Sir Thomas's side , tending to reconcile his wife to the arrangement . 
Everything that a considerate parent ought to feel was advanced for her use and everything that an affectionate mother must feel in promoting her children's enjoyment was attributed to her nature . 
Sir Thomas immediately improved this compliment by adding , Very true . 
We shew Fanny what a good girl we think her by praising her to her face , she is now a very valuable companion . 
If we have been kind to her , she is now quite as necessary to us . 
Yes , said Lady Bertram presently and it is a comfort to think that we shall always have her . 
And that is not very likely to be , Sir Thomas . 
The week which passed so quietly and peaceably at the great house in Mansfield had a very different character at the Parsonage . 
To the young lady , at least , in each family , it brought very different feelings . 
What was tranquillity and comfort to Fanny was tediousness and vexation to Mary . 
Something arose from difference of disposition and habit one so easily satisfied , the other so unused to endure but still more might be imputed to difference of circumstances . 
In some points of interest they were exactly opposed to each other . 
To Fanny's mind , Edmund's absence was really , in its cause and its tendency , a relief . 
To Mary it was every way painful . 
They were now a miserable trio , confined within doors by a series of rain and snow , with nothing to do and no variety to hope for . 
, she could not help thinking of him continually when absent , dwelling on his merit and affection , and longing again for the almost daily meetings they lately had . 
His absence was unnecessarily long . 
He should not have planned such an absence he should not have left home for a week , when her own departure from Mansfield was so near . 
Then she began to blame herself . 
She wished she had not spoken so warmly in their last conversation . 
She was afraid she had used some strong , some contemptuous expressions in speaking of the clergy , and that should not have been . 
It was ill bred it was wrong . 
She wished such words unsaid with all her heart . 
Her vexation did not end with the week . 
She had , moreover , to contend with one disagreeable emotion entirely new to her jealousy . 
His friend Mr. Owen had sisters he might find them attractive . 
Had Henry returned , as he talked of doing , at the end of three or four days , she should now have been leaving Mansfield . 
It became absolutely necessary for her to get to Fanny and try to learn something more . 
The first half hour was lost , for Fanny and Lady Bertram were together , and unless she had Fanny to herself she could hope for nothing . 
Does his staying longer surprise you ? I do not know , said Fanny hesitatingly . 
Yes I had not particularly expected it . 
Perhaps he will always stay longer than he talks of . 
It is the general way all young men do . 
He did not , the only time he went to see Mr. Owen before . 
He finds the house more agreeable now . 
I am looking for Henry every day , and as soon as he comes there will be nothing to detain me at Mansfield . 
I should like to have seen him once more , I confess . 
But you must give my compliments to him . 
Yes I think it must be compliments . 
All that I heard was that his friend had pressed him to stay longer , and that he had agreed to do so . 
A few days longer , or some days longer I am not quite sure which . 
Oh ! if he wrote to his father but I thought it might have been to Lady Bertram or you . 
But if he wrote to his father , no wonder he was concise . 
Who could write chat to Sir Thomas ? If he had written to you , there would have been more particulars . 
You would have heard of balls and parties . 
He would have sent you a description of everything and everybody . 
How many Miss Owens are there ? Three grown up . 
Are they musical ? I do not at all know . 
That is the first question , you know , said Miss Crawford , trying to appear gay and unconcerned , which every woman who plays herself is sure to ask about another . 
There is a beauty in every family it is a regular thing . 
I know nothing of the Miss Owens , said Fanny calmly . 
You know nothing and you care less , as people say . 
Never did tone express indifference plainer . 
She does not like my going . 
Fanny felt obliged to speak . 
'You cannot doubt your being missed by many , said she . 
You will be very much missed . 
But I am not fishing don't compliment me . 
If I am missed , it will appear . 
I may be discovered by those who want to see me . 
I shall not be in any doubtful , or distant , or unapproachable region . 
The Miss Owens , said she , soon afterwards suppose you were to have one of the Miss Owens settled at Thornton Lacey how should you like it ? Stranger things have happened . 
I dare say they are trying for it . 
And they are quite in the light , for it would be a very pretty establishment for them . 
I do not at all wonder or blame them . 
It is everybody's duty to do as well for themselves as they can . 
Sir Thomas Bertram's son is somebody and now he is in their own line . 
Their father is a clergyman , and their brother is a clergyman , and they are all clergymen together . 
He is their lawful property he fairly belongs to them . 
You don't speak , Fanny Miss Price , you don't speak . 
But honestly now , do not you rather expect it than otherwise ? No , said Fanny stoutly , I do not expect it at all . 
Not at all ! cried Miss Crawford with alacrity . 
But I dare say you know exactly I always imagine you are perhaps you do not think him likely to marry at all or not at present . 
No , I do not , said Fanny softly , hoping she did not err either in the belief or the acknowledgment of it . 
And the next day did bring a surprise to her . 
Sitting with them an hour and a half ! exclaimed Mary . 
But this was only the beginning of her surprise . 
My mind is entirely made up . 
Will it astonish you ? No you must be aware that I am quite determined to marry Fanny Price . 
The conviction of his determination once admitted , it was not unwelcome . 
There was even pleasure with the surprise . 
Mary was in a state of mind to rejoice in a connexion with the Bertram family , and to be not displeased with her brother's marrying a little beneath him . 
Yes , Mary , was Henry's concluding assurance . 
You know with what idle designs I began but this is the end of them . 
I have , I flatter myself , made no inconsiderable progress in her affections but my own are entirely fixed . 
You will have a sweet little wife all gratitude and devotion . 
When did you begin to think seriously about her ? Nothing could be more impossible than to answer such a question , though nothing could be more agreeable than to have it asked . 
But this he stoutly denied . 
He knew his uncle too well to consult him on any matrimonial scheme . 
The Admiral hated marriage , and thought it never pardonable in a young man of independent fortune . 
When Fanny is known to him , continued Henry , he will doat on her . 
But till it is absolutely settled settled beyond all interference , he shall know nothing of the matter . 
No , Mary , you are quite mistaken . 
You have not discovered my business yet . 
Well , well , I am satisfied . 
I know now to whom it must relate , and am in no hurry for the rest . 
There is not a better girl in the world , and you do not want for fortune and as to her connexions , they are more than good . 
The Bertrams are undoubtedly some of the first people in this country . 
She is niece to Sir Thomas Bertram that will be enough for the world . 
But go on , go on . 
What are your plans ? Does she know her own happiness ? No. What are you waiting for ? For for very little more than opportunity . 
Mary , she is not like her cousins but I think I shall not ask in vain . 
Oh no ! you cannot . 
The gentleness and gratitude of her disposition would secure her all your own immediately . 
Fanny's beauty of face and figure , Fanny's graces of manner and goodness of heart , were the exhaustless theme . 
Her temper he had good reason to depend on and to praise . 
He had often seen it tried . 
Was there one of the family , excepting Edmund , who had not in some way or other continually exercised her patience and forbearance ? Her affections were evidently strong . 
I could so wholly and absolutely confide in her , said he and that is what I want . 
Well might his sister , believing as she really did that his opinion of Fanny Price was scarcely beyond her merits , rejoice in her prospects . 
Your wicked project upon her peace turns out a clever thought indeed . 
You will both find your good in it . 
I will make her very happy , Mary happier than she has ever yet been herself , or ever seen anybody else . 
I will not take her from Northamptonshire . 
I shall let Everingham , and rent a place in this neighbourhood perhaps Stanwix Lodge . 
I shall let a seven years' lease of Everingham . 
I am sure of an excellent tenant at half a word . 
I could name three people now , who would give me my own terms and thank me . 
Ha ! cried Mary settle in Northamptonshire ! That is pleasant ! Then we shall be all together . 
You must give us more than half your time , said he . 
I cannot admit Mrs. Grant to have an equal claim with Fanny and myself , for we shall both have a right in you . 
You will divide your year between London and Northamptonshire ? Yes . 
That's right and in London , of course , a house of your own no longer with the Admiral . 
To have seen you grow like the Admiral in word or deed , look or gesture , would have broken my heart . 
Well , well , we do not think quite alike here . 
The Admiral has his faults , but he is a very good man , and has been more than a father to me . 
Few fathers would have let me have my own way half so much . 
You must not prejudice Fanny against him . 
I must have them love one another . 
The impossibility of not doing everything in the world to make Fanny Price happy , or of ceasing to love Fanny Price , was of course the groundwork of his eloquent answer . 
Had you seen her so , Mary , you would not have implied the possibility of her power over my heart ever ceasing . 
My dearest Henry , cried Mary , stopping short , and smiling in his face , how glad I am to see you so much in love ! It quite delights me . 
But what will Mrs. Rushworth and Julia say ? I care neither what they say nor what they feel . 
They will now see what sort of woman it is that can attach me , that can attach a man of sense . 
I wish the discovery may do them any good . 
And they will now see their cousin treated as she ought to be , and I wish they may be heartily ashamed of their own abominable neglect and unkindness . 
They will be angry , he added , after a moment's silence , and in a cooler tone Mrs. Rushworth will be very angry . 
Now she is dependent , helpless , friendless , neglected , forgotten . 
Nay , Henry , not by all not forgotten by all not friendless or forgotten . 
Her cousin Edmund never forgets her . 
The two ladies were together in the breakfast room , and , fortunately for him , Lady Bertram was on the very point of quitting it as he entered . 
Your brother is a lieutenant . 
I have the infinite satisfaction of congratulating you on your brother's promotion . 
Here are the letters which announce it , this moment come to hand . 
You will , perhaps , like to see them . 
Fanny could not speak , but he did not want her to speak . 
To see the expression of her eyes , the change of her complexion , the progress of her feelings , their doubt , confusion , and felicity , was enough . 
She took the letters as he gave them . 
Compared with you , who has a right to be happy ? I have almost grudged myself my own prior knowledge of what you ought to have known before all the world . 
I have not lost a moment , however . 
The post was late this morning , but there has not been since a moment's delay . 
My uncle , who is the very best man in the world , has exerted himself , as I knew he would , after seeing your brother . 
He was delighted with him . 
I would not allow myself yesterday to say how delighted , or to repeat half that the Admiral said in his praise . 
I deferred it all till his praise should be proved the praise of a friend , as this day does prove it . 
Has this been all your doing , then ? cried Fanny . 
Good heaven ! how very , very kind ! Have you really was it by your desire ? I beg your pardon , but I am bewildered . 
Did Admiral Crawford apply ? How was it ? I am stupefied . 
Henry was most happy to make it more intelligible , by beginning at an earlier stage , and explaining very particularly what he had done . 
This had been his business . 
My uncle ought to know it as soon as possible . 
But this could not be suffered . 
The opportunity was too fair , and his feelings too impatient . 
He was after her immediately . 
This is a sort of talking which is very unpleasant to me . 
It was so he had said it . 
Her astonishment and confusion increased and though still not knowing how to suppose him serious , she could hardly stand . 
He pressed for an answer . 
No , no , no ! she cried , hiding her face . 
I can hear no more of this . 
But you are not thinking of me . 
I know it is all nothing . 
She had burst away from him , and at that moment Sir Thomas was heard speaking to a servant in his way towards the room they were in . 
She was feeling , thinking , trembling about everything agitated , happy , miserable , infinitely obliged , absolutely angry . 
It was all beyond belief ! He was inexcusable , incomprehensible ! But such were his habits that he could do nothing without a mixture of evil . 
He had previously made her the happiest of human beings , and now he had insulted she knew not what to say , how to class , or how to regard it . 
She would not have him be serious , and yet what could excuse the use of such words and offers , if they meant but to trifle ? But William was a lieutenant . 
That was a fact beyond a doubt , and without an alloy . 
She would think of it for ever and forget all the rest . 
This was a most unwelcome hearing , for though he might think nothing of what had passed , it would be quite distressing to her to see him again so soon . 
She could not have supposed it in the power of any concurrence of circumstances to give her so many painful sensations on the first day of hearing of William's promotion . 
Mr. Crawford was not only in the room he was soon close to her . 
He had a note to deliver from his sister . 
Fanny could not look at him , but there was no consciousness of past folly in his voice . 
Go on , my dear Fanny , and without fear there can be no difficulties worth naming . 
She did not know what to do , or what to think . 
There was wretchedness in the idea of its being serious there was perplexity and agitation every way . 
She was more silent than ever . 
She would hardly join even when William was the subject , for his commission came all from the right hand too , and there was pain in the connexion . 
Mrs. Norris seemed as much delighted with the saving it would be to Sir Thomas as with any part of it . 
I am glad you gave him something considerable , said Lady Bertram , with most unsuspicious calmness , for I gave him only . 
Indeed ! cried Mrs. Norris , reddening . 
Upon my word , he must have gone off with his pockets well lined , and at no expense for his journey to London either ! Sir Thomas told me would be enough . 
Mrs. Norris , being not at all inclined to question its sufficiency , began to take the matter in another point . 
Very true , sister , as you say . 
But , poor things ! they cannot help it and you know it makes very little difference to Sir Thomas . 
Fanny , William must not forget my shawl if he goes to the East Indies and I shall give him a commission for anything else that is worth having . 
I wish he may go to the East Indies , that I may have my shawl . 
I think I will have two shawls , Fanny . 
Fanny , meanwhile , speaking only when she could not help it , was very earnestly trying to understand what Mr. and Miss Crawford were at . 
There was everything in the world against their being serious but his words and manner . 
Everything natural , probable , reasonable , was against it all their habits and ways of thinking , and all her own demerits . 
Fanny was ashamed of her own doubts . 
Everything might be possible rather than serious attachment , or serious approbation of it toward her . 
She had quite convinced herself of this before Sir Thomas and Mr. Crawford joined them . 
But she still tried to believe it no more than what he might often have expressed towards her cousins and fifty other women . 
She thought he was wishing to speak to her unheard by the rest . 
Pray write to her , if it be only a line . 
Oh yes ! certainly , cried Fanny , rising in haste , the haste of embarrassment and of wanting to get away I will write directly . 
She went accordingly to the table , where she was in the habit of writing for her aunt , and prepared her materials without knowing what in the world to say . 
She had read Miss Crawford's note only once , and how to reply to anything so imperfectly understood was most distressing . 
I have seen too much of Mr. Crawford not to understand his manners if he understood me as well , he would , I dare say , behave differently . 
I do not know what I write , but it would be a great favour of you never to mention the subject again . 
With thanks for the honour of your note , I remain , dear Miss Crawford , etc . 
The conclusion was scarcely intelligible from increasing fright , for she found that Mr. Crawford , under pretence of receiving the note , was coming towards her . 
Do not hurry yourself , I entreat . 
And why it was not done already she could not devise , for Miss Crawford certainly wanted no delay . 
Fanny had hoped , in the course of his yesterday's visit , to hear the day named but he had only spoken of their journey as what would take place ere long . 
It was indeed Sir Thomas who opened the door and asked if she were there , and if he might come in . 
The terror of his former occasional visits to that room seemed all renewed , and she felt as if he were going to examine her again in French and English . 
I am not cold , sir I never sit here long at this time of year . 
But you have a fire in general ? No , sir . 
How comes this about ? Here must be some mistake . 
I understood that you had the use of this room by way of making you perfectly comfortable . 
In your bedchamber I know you cannot have a fire . 
Here is some great misapprehension which must be rectified . 
It is highly unfit for you to sit , be it only half an hour a day , without a fire . 
Your aunt cannot be aware of this . 
I understand , cried her uncle , recollecting himself , and not wanting to hear more I understand . 
Your aunt Norris has always been an advocate , and very judiciously , for young people's being brought up without unnecessary indulgences but there should be moderation in everything . 
She is also very hardy herself , which of course will influence her in her opinion of the wants of others . 
And on another account , too , I can perfectly comprehend . 
I know what her sentiments have always been . 
The principle was good in itself , but it may have been , and I believe has been , carried too far in your case . 
You have an understanding which will prevent you from receiving things only in part , and judging partially by the event . 
I am sure you will not disappoint my opinion of you , by failing at any time to treat your aunt Norris with the respect and attention that are due to her . 
Sit down , my dear . 
I must speak to you for a few minutes , but I will not detain you long . 
Fanny obeyed , with eyes cast down and colour rising . 
After a moment's pause , Sir Thomas , trying to suppress a smile , went on . 
You are not aware , perhaps , that I have had a visitor this morning . 
I had not been long in my own room , after breakfast , when Mr. Crawford was shewn in . 
His errand you may probably conjecture . 
He talked , therefore , for several minutes without Fanny's daring to interrupt him . 
She had hardly even attained the wish to do it . 
Her mind was in too much confusion . 
She had changed her position and , with her eyes fixed intently on one of the windows , was listening to her uncle in the utmost perturbation and dismay . 
Mr. Crawford , as you have perhaps foreseen , is yet in the house . 
He is in my room , and hoping to see you there . 
I do not catch your meaning , said Sir Thomas , sitting down again . 
received as much encouragement to proceed as a well judging young woman could permit herself to give . 
I was very much pleased with what I collected to have been your behaviour on the occasion it shewed a discretion highly to be commended . 
How could Mr. Crawford say such a thing ? I gave him no encouragement yesterday . 
I thought it might all pass for nothing with him . 
She could say no more her breath was almost gone . 
Am I to understand , said Sir Thomas , after a few moments' silence , that you mean to refuse Mr. Crawford ? Yes , sir . 
Refuse him ? Yes , sir . 
Refuse Mr. Crawford ! Upon what plea ? For what reason ? I I cannot like him , sir , well enough to marry him . 
This is very strange ! said Sir Thomas , in a voice of calm displeasure . 
There is something in this which my comprehension does not reach . 
And he is not an acquaintance of to day you have now known him some time . 
It is very uncertain when my interest might have got William on . 
He has done it already . 
You must have been aware , continued Sir Thomas presently , you must have been some time aware of a particularity in Mr. Crawford's manners to you . 
This cannot have taken you by surprise . 
, I never perceived them to be unpleasant to you . 
I am half inclined to think , Fanny , that you do not quite know your own feelings . 
Oh yes , sir ! indeed I do . 
His attentions were always what I did not like . 
Sir Thomas looked at her with deeper surprise . 
This is beyond me , said he . 
Young as you are , and having seen scarcely any one , it is hardly possible that your affections He paused and eyed her fixedly . 
He saw her lips formed into a no , though the sound was inarticulate , but her face was like scarlet . 
Well , there is nothing more to be said . 
And for a few minutes he did say nothing . 
He was deep in thought . 
His niece was deep in thought likewise , trying to harden and prepare herself against farther questioning . 
She would rather die than own the truth and she hoped , by a little reflection , to fortify herself beyond betraying it . 
I wish he were more likely to fix . 
Here was a glance at Fanny . 
Edmund , I consider , from his dispositions and habits , as much more likely to marry early than his brother . 
He , indeed , I have lately thought , has seen the woman he could love , which , I am convinced , my eldest son has not . 
Am I right ? Do you agree with me , my dear ? Yes , sir . 
It was gently , but it was calmly said , and Sir Thomas was easy on the score of the cousins . 
She longed to add , But of his principles I have but her heart sunk under the appalling prospect of discussion , explanation , and probably non conviction . 
Her ill opinion of him was founded chiefly on observations , which , for her cousins' sake , she could scarcely dare mention to their father . 
To her infinite grief she found it was not . 
We had better put an end to this most mortifying conference . 
Mr. Crawford must not be kept longer waiting . 
For I had , Fanny , as I think my behaviour must have shewn , formed a very favourable opinion of you from the period of my return to England . 
You have shewn yourself very , very different from anything that I had imagined . 
The advantage or disadvantage of your family , of your parents , your brothers and sisters , never seems to have had a moment's share in your thoughts on this occasion . 
How they might be benefited , how they must rejoice in such an establishment for you , is nothing to you . 
Gladly would I have bestowed either of my own daughters on him . 
Maria is nobly married but had Mr. Crawford sought Julia's hand , I should have given it to him with superior and more heartfelt satisfaction than I gave Maria's to Mr. Rushworth . 
I should have been much surprised and much hurt by such a proceeding . 
I should have thought it a gross violation of duty and respect . 
You are not to be judged by the same rule . 
You do not owe me the duty of a child . 
But , Fanny , if your heart can acquit you of ingratitude He ceased . 
Fanny was by this time crying so bitterly that , angry as he was , he would not press that article farther . 
He thought her all this . 
She had deceived his expectations she had lost his good opinion . 
What was to become of her ? I am very sorry , said she inarticulately , through her tears , I am very sorry indeed . 
Sorry ! yes , I hope you are sorry and you will probably have reason to be long sorry for this day's transactions . 
There is no use in these tears they can do no good . 
You must now come downstairs with me . 
Mr. Crawford has been kept waiting too long already . 
I am totally unequal to it . 
But Fanny shewed such reluctance , such misery , at the idea of going down to him , that Sir Thomas , after a little consideration , judged it better to indulge her . 
The past , present , future , everything was terrible . 
But her uncle's anger gave her the severest pain of all . 
Selfish and ungrateful ! to have appeared so to him ! She was miserable for ever . 
She had no one to take her part , to counsel , or speak for her . 
Her only friend was absent . 
He might have softened his father but all , perhaps all , would think her selfish and ungrateful . 
She might have to endure the reproach again and again she might hear it , or see it , or know it to exist for ever in every connexion about her . 
She could not but feel some resentment against Mr. Crawford yet , if he really loved her , and were unhappy too ! It was all wretchedness together . 
In about a quarter of an hour her uncle returned she was almost ready to faint at the sight of him . 
He spoke calmly , however , without austerity , without reproach , and she revived a little . 
There was comfort , too , in his words , as well as his manner , for he began with , Mr. Crawford is gone he has just left me . 
I need not repeat what has passed . 
I do not want to add to anything you may now be feeling , by an account of what he has felt . 
Suffice it , that he has behaved in the most gentlemanlike and generous manner , and has confirmed me in a most favourable opinion of his understanding , heart , and temper . 
Upon my representation of what you were suffering , he immediately , and with the greatest delicacy , ceased to urge to see you for the present . 
Here Fanny , who had looked up , looked down again . 
But there is no time fixed perhaps to morrow , or whenever your spirits are composed enough . 
For the present you have only to tranquillise yourself . 
Check these tears they do but exhaust you . 
, I shall make no mention below of what has passed I shall not even tell your aunt Bertram . 
There is no occasion for spreading the disappointment say nothing about it yourself . 
This was an order to be most joyfully obeyed this was an act of kindness which Fanny felt at her heart . 
To be spared from her aunt Norris's interminable reproaches ! he left her in a glow of gratitude . 
Anything might be bearable rather than such reproaches . 
Even to see Mr. Crawford would be less overpowering . 
Not to excite suspicion by her look or manner was now an object worth attaining and she felt equal to almost anything that might save her from her aunt Norris . 
A fire ! it seemed too much just at that time to be giving her such an indulgence was exciting even painful gratitude . 
Sir Thomas had given orders for it . 
I must be a brute , indeed , if I can be really ungrateful ! said she , in soliloquy . 
Heaven defend me from being ungrateful ! She saw nothing more of her uncle , nor of her aunt Norris , till they met at dinner . 
It would have made no difference to you , I suppose , whether you had walked in the shrubbery or gone to my house . 
I recommended the shrubbery to Fanny as the driest place , said Sir Thomas . 
Oh ! said Mrs. Norris , with a moment's check , that was very kind of you , Sir Thomas but you do not know how dry the path is to my house . 
Fanny would have had quite as good a walk there , I assure you , with the advantage of being of some use , and obliging her aunt it is all her fault . 
She was talking at Fanny , and resenting this private walk half through the dinner . 
She would not , could not believe , that Mr. Crawford's affection for her could distress him long his mind was not of that sort . 
London would soon bring its cure . 
In London he would soon learn to wonder at his infatuation , and be thankful for the right reason in her which had saved him from its evil consequences . 
but you are so very eager to put yourself forward . 
What should Sir Thomas want you for ? It is me , Baddeley , you mean I am coming this moment . 
You mean me , Baddeley , I am sure Sir Thomas wants me , not Miss Price . 
No , ma'am , it is Miss Price I am certain of its being Miss Price . 
And there was a half smile with the words , which meant , I do not think you would answer the purpose at all . 
CHAPTER XXXIII The conference was neither so short nor so conclusive as the lady had designed . 
The gentleman was not so easily satisfied . 
He had all the disposition to persevere that Sir Thomas could wish him . 
He would not despair he would not desist . 
, was of a sort to heighten all his wishes , and confirm all his resolutions . 
He knew not that he had a pre engaged heart to attack . 
Of that he had no suspicion . 
Must it not follow of course , that , when he was understood , he should succeed ? He believed it fully . 
A little difficulty to be overcome was no evil to Henry Crawford . 
He rather derived spirits from it . 
He had been apt to gain hearts too easily . 
His situation was new and animating . 
To Fanny , however , who had known too much opposition all her life to find any charm in it , all this was unintelligible . 
She found that he did mean to persevere but how he could , after such language from her as she felt herself obliged to use , was not to be understood . 
Her manner was incurably gentle and she was not aware how much it concealed the sternness of her purpose . 
She must be courteous , and she must be compassionate . 
She must have a sensation of being honoured , and whether thinking of herself or her brother , she must have a strong feeling of gratitude . 
Some resentment did arise at a perseverance so selfish and ungenerous . 
Here was again a want of delicacy and regard for others which had formerly so struck and disgusted her . 
Here was again a something of the same Mr. Crawford whom she had so reprobated before . 
Sir Thomas was obliged , or obliged himself , to wait till the morrow for a knowledge of what had passed between the young people . 
He then saw Mr. Crawford , and received his account . 
Nothing was omitted , on his side , of civility , compliment , or kindness , that might assist the plan . 
Mr. Crawford's steadiness was honoured , and Fanny was praised , and the connexion was still the most desirable in the world . 
At Mansfield Park Mr. Crawford would always be welcome he had only to consult his own judgment and feelings as to the frequency of his visits , at present or in future . 
In all his niece's family and friends , there could be but one opinion , one wish on the subject the influence of all who loved her must incline one way . 
Everything was said that could encourage , every encouragement received with grateful joy , and the gentlemen parted the best of friends . 
Upon her disposition he believed kindness might be the best way of working . 
Entreaty should be from one quarter only . 
The forbearance of her family on a point , respecting which she could be in no doubt of their wishes , might be their surest means of forwarding it . 
With him it is entirely a matter of feeling he claims no merit in it perhaps is entitled to none . 
Yet , having chosen so well , his constancy has a respectable stamp . 
Had his choice been less unexceptionable , I should have condemned his persevering . 
Your feelings are as well known to me as my wishes and regrets must be to you . 
There is nothing more to be said or done . 
From this hour the subject is never to be revived between us . 
You will have nothing to fear , or to be agitated about . 
You cannot suppose me capable of trying to persuade you to marry against your inclinations . 
He proceeds at his own risk . 
You are on safe ground . 
I have engaged for your seeing him whenever he calls , as you might have done had nothing of this sort occurred . 
You will see him with the rest of us , in the same manner , and , as much as you can , dismissing the recollection of everything unpleasant . 
He leaves Northamptonshire so soon , that even this slight sacrifice cannot be often demanded . 
The future must be very uncertain . 
And now , my dear Fanny , this subject is closed between us . 
The promised departure was all that Fanny could think of with much satisfaction . 
He , who had married a daughter to Mr. Rushworth romantic delicacy was certainly not to be expected from him . 
She must do her duty , and trust that time might make her duty easier than it now was . 
How much time she might , in her own fancy , allot for its dominion , is another concern . 
It would not be fair to inquire into a young lady's exact estimate of her own perfections . 
He had no idea of concealment . 
He deprecated her mistaken but well meaning zeal . 
Mrs. Norris , however , relieved him . 
He pressed for the strictest forbearance and silence towards their niece she not only promised , but did observe it . 
She only looked her increased ill will . 
Angry she was bitterly angry but she was more angry with Fanny for having received such an offer than for refusing it . 
Lady Bertram took it differently . 
She had been a beauty , and a prosperous beauty , all her life and beauty and wealth were all that excited her respect . 
To know Fanny to be sought in marriage by a man of fortune , raised her , therefore , very much in her opinion . 
I must just speak of it once , I told Sir Thomas I must once , and then I shall have done . 
I give you joy , my dear niece . 
You cannot wish me to marry for you would miss me , should not you ? Yes , I am sure you would miss me too much for that . 
No , my dear , I should not think of missing you , when such an offer as this comes in your way . 
I could do very well without you , if you were married to a man of such good estate as Mr. Crawford . 
And you must be aware , Fanny , that it is every young woman's duty to accept such a very unexceptionable offer as this . 
This was almost the only rule of conduct , the only piece of advice , which Fanny had ever received from her aunt in the course of eight years and a half . 
She felt how unprofitable contention would be . 
If her aunt's feelings were against her , nothing could be hoped from attacking her understanding . 
Lady Bertram was quite talkative . 
I will tell you what , Fanny , said she , I am sure he fell in love with you at the ball I am sure the mischief was done that evening . 
You did look remarkably well . 
And you know you had Chapman to help you to dress . 
I am very glad I sent Chapman to you . 
I shall tell Sir Thomas that I am sure it was done that evening . 
CHAPTER XXXIV Edmund had great things to hear on his return . 
Many surprises were awaiting him . 
The first that occurred was not least in interest the appearance of Henry Crawford and his sister walking together through the village as he rode into it . 
He had concluded he had meant them to be far distant . 
His absence had been extended beyond a fortnight purposely to avoid Miss Crawford . 
Her reception of him was of a sort which he could not have hoped for , had he expected to see her . 
It was enough to set his heart in a glow , and to bring him home in the properest state for feeling the full value of the other joyful surprises at hand . 
Fanny suspected what was going on . 
He was not intending , however , by such action , to be conveying to her that unqualified approbation and encouragement which her hopes drew from it . 
It was designed only to express his participation in all that interested her , and to tell her that he had been hearing what quickened every feeling of affection . 
He was , in fact , entirely on his father's side of the question . 
Crawford had been too precipitate . 
He had not given her time to attach herself . 
He had begun at the wrong end . 
With such powers as his , however , and such a disposition as hers , Edmund trusted that everything would work out a happy conclusion . 
Meanwhile , he saw enough of Fanny's embarrassment to make him scrupulously guard against exciting it a second time , by any word , or look , or movement . 
Crawford called the next day , and on the score of Edmund's return , Sir Thomas felt himself more than licensed to ask him to stay dinner it was really a necessary compliment . 
In the evening a few circumstances occurred which he thought more promising . 
When he and Crawford walked into the drawing room , his mother and Fanny were sitting as intently and silently at work as if there were nothing else to care for . 
Edmund could not help noticing their apparently deep tranquillity . 
We have not been so silent all the time , replied his mother . 
Fanny has been reading to me , and only put the book down upon hearing you coming . 
And sure enough there was a book on the table which had the air of being very recently closed a volume of Shakespeare . 
Let me have the pleasure of finishing that speech to your ladyship , said he . 
I shall find it immediately . 
Not a look or an offer of help had Fanny given not a syllable for or against . 
All her attention was for her work . 
She seemed determined to be interested by nothing else . 
But taste was too strong in her . 
She could not abstract her mind five minutes she was forced to listen his reading was capital , and her pleasure in good reading extreme . 
That play must be a favourite with you , said he you read as if you knew it well . 
I once saw Henry the Eighth acted , or I have heard of it from somebody who did , I am not certain which . 
But Shakespeare one gets acquainted with without knowing how . 
It is a part of an Englishman's constitution . 
His thoughts and beauties are so spread abroad that one touches them everywhere one is intimate with him by instinct . 
No man of any brain can open at a good part of one of his plays without falling into the flow of his meaning immediately . 
No doubt one is familiar with Shakespeare in a degree , said Edmund , from one's earliest years . 
To know him in bits and scraps is common enough to know him pretty thoroughly is , perhaps , not uncommon but to read him well aloud is no everyday talent . 
Sir , you do me honour , was Crawford's answer , with a bow of mock gravity . 
Both gentlemen had a glance at Fanny , to see if a word of accordant praise could be extorted from her yet both feeling that it could not be . 
Her praise had been given in her attention that must content them . 
Lady Bertram's admiration was expressed , and strongly too . 
It was really like being at a play , said she . 
I wish Sir Thomas had been here . 
I mean when you are settled there . 
I think you will fit up a theatre at your house in Norfolk . 
Do you , ma'am ? cried he , with quickness . 
No , no , that will never be . 
Your ladyship is quite mistaken . 
No theatre at Everingham ! Oh no ! And he looked at Fanny with an expressive smile , which evidently meant , That lady will never allow a theatre at Everingham . 
The subject of reading aloud was farther discussed . 
The subject is more justly considered . 
This would be the way to Fanny's heart . 
that nineteen times out of twenty I am thinking how such a prayer ought to be read , and longing to have it to read myself . 
I fancied you might be going to tell me I ought to be more attentive , and not allow my thoughts to wander . 
He then returned to his former station , and went on as if there had been no such tender interruption . 
A sermon , well delivered , is more uncommon even than prayers well read . 
A sermon , good in itself , is no rare thing . 
It is more difficult to speak well than to compose well that is , the rules and trick of composition are oftener an object of study . 
A thoroughly good sermon , thoroughly well delivered , is a capital gratification . 
I can never hear such a one without the greatest admiration and respect , and more than half a mind to take orders and preach myself . 
There is something in the eloquence of the pulpit , when it is really eloquence , which is entitled to the highest praise and honour . 
I should like to be such a man . 
I never listened to a distinguished preacher in my life without a sort of envy . 
But then , I must have a London audience . 
I could not preach but to the educated to those who were capable of estimating my composition . 
What did that shake of the head mean ? said he . 
What was it meant to express ? Disapprobation , I fear . 
But of what ? What had I been saying to displease you ? Did you think me speaking improperly , lightly , irreverently on the subject ? Only tell me if I was . 
Only tell me if I was wrong . 
I want to be set right . 
Nay , nay , I entreat you for one moment put down your work . 
In the same low , eager voice , and the same close neighbourhood , he went on , reurging the same questions as before . 
She grew more agitated and displeased . 
How can you , sir ? You quite astonish me I wonder how you can Do I astonish you ? said he . 
I will not leave you to wonder long . 
In spite of herself , she could not help half a smile , but she said nothing . 
You shook your head at my acknowledging that I should not like to engage in the duties of a clergyman always for a constancy . 
Yes , that was the word . 
Constancy I am not afraid of the word . 
I would spell it , read it , write it with anybody . 
I see nothing alarming in the word . 
He had always something to entreat the explanation of . 
The opportunity was too fair . 
None such had occurred since his seeing her in her uncle's room , none such might occur again before his leaving Mansfield . 
Well , said Crawford , after a course of rapid questions and reluctant answers I am happier than I was , because I now understand more clearly your opinion of me . 
You think me unsteady easily swayed by the whim of the moment , easily tempted , easily put aside . 
With such an opinion , no wonder that . 
It is not by protestations that I shall endeavour to convince you I am wronged it is not by telling you that my affections are steady . 
My conduct shall speak for me absence , distance , time shall speak for me . 
They shall prove that , as far as you can be deserved by anybody , I do deserve you . 
You are infinitely my superior in merit all that I know . 
You have qualities which I had not before supposed to exist in such a degree in any human creature . 
You have some touches of the angel in you beyond what not merely beyond what one sees , because one never sees anything like it but beyond what one fancies might be . 
But still I am not frightened . 
It is not by equality of merit that you can be won . 
That is out of the question . 
It is he who sees and worships your merit the strongest , who loves you most devotedly , that has the best right to a return . 
There I build my confidence . 
By that right I do and will deserve you and when once convinced that my attachment is what I declare it , I know you too well not to entertain the warmest hopes . 
Yes , dearest , sweetest Fanny . 
You have given the name such reality of sweetness , that nothing else can now be descriptive of you . 
The solemn procession , headed by Baddeley , of tea board , urn , and cake bearers , made its appearance , and delivered her from a grievous imprisonment of body and mind . 
Mr. Crawford was obliged to move . 
She was at liberty , she was busy , she was protected . 
Edmund was not sorry to be admitted again among the number of those who might speak and hear . 
Sir Thomas was most cordially anxious for the perfection of Mr. Crawford's character in that point . 
He wished him to be a model of constancy and fancied the best means of effecting it would be by not trying him too long . 
Edmund was not unwilling to be persuaded to engage in the business he wanted to know Fanny's feelings . 
I am come to walk with you , Fanny , said he . 
Shall I ? Drawing her arm within his . 
It is a long while since we have had a comfortable walk together . 
She assented to it all rather by look than word . 
But , Fanny , he presently added , in order to have a comfortable walk , something more is necessary than merely pacing this gravel together . 
You must talk to me . 
I know you have something on your mind . 
I know what you are thinking of . 
You cannot suppose me uninformed . 
Not of facts , perhaps but of feelings , Fanny . 
No one but you can tell me them . 
I do not mean to press you , however . 
If it is not what you wish yourself , I have done . 
I had thought it might be a relief . 
I am afraid we think too differently for me to find any relief in talking of what I feel . 
Do you suppose that we think differently ? I have no idea of it . 
I consider it as most natural that all your family should wish you could return it but that , as you cannot , you have done exactly as you ought in refusing him . 
Can there be any disagreement between us here ? Oh no ! But I thought you blamed me . 
I thought you were against me . 
This is such a comfort ! This comfort you might have had sooner , Fanny , had you sought it . 
As far as you have gone , Fanny , I think you perfectly right . 
I may be sorry , I may be surprised though hardly that , for you had not had time to attach yourself but I think you perfectly right . 
Can it admit of a question ? It is disgraceful to us if it does . 
You did not love him nothing could have justified your accepting him . 
Fanny had not felt so comfortable for days and days . 
So far your conduct has been faultless , and they were quite mistaken who wished you to do otherwise . 
But the matter does not end here . 
Crawford's is no common attachment he perseveres , with the hope of creating that regard which had not been created before . 
This , we know , must be a work of time . 
let him succeed at last , Fanny , let him succeed at last . 
You have proved yourself upright and disinterested , prove yourself grateful and tender hearted and then you will be the perfect model of a woman which I have always believed you born for . 
Oh ! never , never , never ! he never will succeed with me . 
I must hope better things . 
I know that the apprehension of being forced to quit Mansfield will for a time be arming you against him . 
I wish he had not been obliged to tell you what he was trying for . 
I wish he had known you as well as I do , Fanny . 
Between us , I think we should have won you . 
My theoretical and his practical knowledge together could not have failed . 
He should have worked upon my plans . 
to deserve you by his steady affection , will give him his reward . 
I cannot suppose that you have not the wish to love him the natural wish of gratitude . 
You must have some feeling of that sort . 
You must be sorry for your own indifference . 
There never were two people more dissimilar . 
We have not one taste in common . 
You are mistaken , Fanny . 
The dissimilarity is not so strong . 
You are quite enough alike . 
You have tastes in common . 
You have moral and literary tastes in common . 
He is lively , you are serious but so much the better his spirits will support yours . 
It is your disposition to be easily dejected and to fancy difficulties greater than they are . 
His cheerfulness will counteract this . 
He sees difficulties nowhere and his pleasantness and gaiety will be a constant support to you . 
Your being so far unlike , Fanny , does not in the smallest degree make against the probability of your happiness together do not imagine it . 
I am myself convinced that it is rather a favourable circumstance . 
Some opposition here is , I am thoroughly convinced , friendly to matrimonial happiness . 
I exclude extremes , of course and a very close resemblance in all those points would be the likeliest way to produce an extreme . 
A counteraction , gentle and continual , is the best safeguard of manners and conduct . 
Full well could Fanny guess where his thoughts were now Miss Crawford's power was all returning . 
He had been speaking of her cheerfully from the hour of his coming home . 
His avoiding her was quite at an end . 
He had dined at the Parsonage only the preceding day . 
I must say , cousin , that I cannot approve his character . 
I have not thought well of him from the time of the play . 
The time of the play is a time which I hate to recollect . 
Maria was wrong , Crawford was wrong , we were all wrong together but none so wrong as myself . 
Compared with me , all the rest were blameless . 
I was playing the fool with my eyes open . 
As a bystander , said Fanny , perhaps I saw more than you did and I do think that Mr. Rushworth was sometimes very jealous . 
Nothing could be more improper than the whole business . 
I am shocked whenever I think that Maria could be capable of it but , if she could undertake the part , we must not be surprised at the rest . 
Before the play , I am much mistaken if Julia did not think he was paying her attentions . 
Julia ! I have heard before from some one of his being in love with Julia but I could never see anything of it . 
And I must say , that its being for you has raised him inconceivably in my opinion . 
It does him the highest honour it shews his proper estimation of the blessing of domestic happiness and pure attachment . 
It proves him unspoilt by his uncle . 
It proves him , in short , everything that I had been used to wish to believe him , and feared he was not . 
I am persuaded that he does not think , as he ought , on serious subjects . 
Say , rather , that he has not thought at all upon serious subjects , which I believe to be a good deal the case . 
Happily , those feelings have generally been good . 
He has chosen his partner , indeed , with rare felicity . 
He will make you happy , Fanny I know he will make you happy but you will make him everything . 
I confess myself sincerely anxious that you may . 
I have no common interest in Crawford's well doing . 
Next to your happiness , Fanny , his has the first claim on me . 
You are aware of my having no common interest in Crawford . 
Fanny was too well aware of it to have anything to say and they walked on together some fifty yards in mutual silence and abstraction . 
I was afraid of the bias of those worldly maxims , which she has been too much used to hear . 
But it was very different . 
She spoke of you , Fanny , just as she ought . 
She desires the connexion as warmly as your uncle or myself . 
We had a long talk about it . 
Mrs. Grant laughed at her for her rapidity . 
It is above a week since I saw Miss Crawford . 
Yes , she laments it yet owns it may have been best . 
You will see her , however , before she goes . 
She is very angry with you , Fanny you must be prepared for that . 
She calls herself very angry , but you can imagine her anger . 
It is the regret and disappointment of a sister , who thinks her brother has a right to everything he may wish for , at the first moment . 
She is hurt , as you would be for William but she loves and esteems you with all her heart . 
I knew she would be very angry with me . 
My dearest Fanny , cried Edmund , pressing her arm closer to him , do not let the idea of her anger distress you . 
It is anger to be talked of rather than felt . 
Her heart is made for love and kindness , not for resentment . 
I wish you could have overheard her tribute of praise I wish you could have seen her countenance , when she said that you should be Henry's wife . 
And I observed that she always spoke of you as 'Fanny , which she was never used to do and it had a sound of most sisterly cordiality . 
And Mrs. Grant , did she say did she speak was she there all the time ? Yes , she was agreeing exactly with her sister . 
The surprise of your refusal , Fanny , seems to have been unbounded . 
That you could refuse such a man as Henry Crawford seems more than they can understand . 
But this is teasing you . 
Do not turn away from me . 
In my situation , it would have been the extreme of vanity to be forming expectations on Mr. Crawford . 
I am sure his sisters , rating him as they do , must have thought it so , supposing he had meant nothing . 
The higher his deserts , the more improper for me ever to have thought of him . 
And , and we think very differently of the nature of women , if they can imagine a woman so very soon capable of returning an affection as this seems to imply . 
My dear , dear Fanny , now I have the truth . 
I know this to be the truth and most worthy of you are such feelings . 
I had attributed them to you before . 
I thought I could understand you . 
Miss Crawford made us laugh by her plans of encouragement for her brother . 
She meant to urge him to persevere in the hope of being loved in time , and of having his addresses most kindly received at the end of about ten years' happy marriage . 
Fanny could with difficulty give the smile that was here asked for . 
Her feelings were all in revolt . 
On this principle , he soon afterwards observed They go on Monday . 
You are sure , therefore , of seeing your friend either to morrow or Sunday . 
They really go on Monday and I was within a trifle of being persuaded to stay at Lessingby till that very day ! I had almost promised it . 
What a difference it might have made ! Those five or six days more at Lessingby might have been felt all my life . 
You were near staying there ? Very . 
I was most kindly pressed , and had nearly consented . 
You spent your time pleasantly there ? Yes that is , it was the fault of my own mind if I did not . 
They were all very pleasant . 
I doubt their finding me so . 
I took uneasiness with me , and there was no getting rid of it till I was in Mansfield again . 
The Miss Owens you liked them , did not you ? Yes , very well . 
Pleasant , good humoured , unaffected girls . 
But I am spoilt , Fanny , for common female society . 
Good humoured , unaffected girls will not do for a man who has been used to sensible women . 
They are two distinct orders of being . 
You and Miss Crawford have made me too nice . 
CHAPTER XXXVI Edmund now believed himself perfectly acquainted with all that Fanny could tell , or could leave to be conjectured of her sentiments , and he was satisfied . 
She must be used to the consideration of his being in love with her , and then a return of affection might not be very distant . 
Sir Thomas promised that it should be so . 
There was nothing to be done , however , but to submit quietly and hope the best . 
The promised visit from her friend , as Edmund called Miss Crawford , was a formidable threat to Fanny , and she lived in continual terror of it . 
Her displeasure , her penetration , and her happiness were all fearful to encounter and the dependence of having others present when they met was Fanny's only support in looking forward to it . 
But here she hoped too much Miss Crawford was not the slave of opportunity . 
Her habits of ready submission , on the contrary , made her almost instantly rise and lead the way out of the room . 
She did it with wretched feelings , but it was inevitable . 
They were no sooner in the hall than all restraint of countenance was over on Miss Crawford's side . 
She immediately shook her head at Fanny with arch , yet affectionate reproach , and taking her hand , seemed hardly able to help beginning directly . 
Do you remember it ? I came to rehearse . 
Your cousin came too and we had a rehearsal . 
You were our audience and prompter . 
I shall never forget it . 
Here we were , just in this part of the room here was your cousin , here was I , here were the chairs . 
Oh ! why will such things ever pass away ? Happily for her companion , she wanted no answer . 
Her mind was entirely self engrossed . 
She was in a reverie of sweet remembrances . 
The scene we were rehearsing was so very remarkable ! The subject of it so very very what shall I say ? He was to be describing and recommending matrimony to me . 
I think I see him now , trying to be as demure and composed as Anhalt ought , through the two long speeches . 
'When two sympathetic hearts meet in the marriage state , matrimony may be called a happy life . 
I suppose no time can ever wear out the impression I have of his looks and voice as he said those words . 
Say what you would , Fanny , it should be that for I never knew such exquisite happiness in any other . 
His sturdy spirit to bend as it did ! Oh ! it was sweet beyond expression . 
But alas , that very evening destroyed it all . 
That very evening brought your most unwelcome uncle . 
No , I do him justice now . 
He is just what the head of such a family should be . 
Nay , in sober sadness , I believe I now love you all . 
She had not foreseen anything of this , and her feelings could seldom withstand the melancholy influence of the word last . 
I shall see no one half so amiable where I am going . 
Who says we shall not be sisters ? I know we shall . 
I feel that we are born to be connected and those tears convince me that you feel it too , dear Fanny . 
Fanny roused herself , and replying only in part , said , But you are only going from one set of friends to another . 
You are going to a very particular friend . 
Mrs. Fraser has been my intimate friend for years . 
But I have not the least inclination to go near her . 
I can think only of the friends I am leaving my excellent sister , yourself , and the Bertrams in general . 
You have all so much more heart among you than one finds in the world at large . 
You all give me a feeling of being able to trust and confide in you , which in common intercourse one knows nothing of . 
I wish I had settled with Mrs. Fraser not to go to her till after Easter , a much better time for the visit , but now I cannot put her off . 
After this speech the two girls sat many minutes silent , each thoughtful Fanny meditating on the different sorts of friendship in the world , Mary on something of less philosophic tendency . 
Another short fit of abstraction followed , when , shaking it off , she thus attacked her companion . 
Why , Fanny , you are absolutely in a reverie . 
Thinking , I hope , of one who is always thinking of you . 
You should come to London to know how to estimate your conquest . 
Oh ! she has been trying for him to such a degree . 
I wish Margaret were married , for my poor friend's sake , for I look upon the Frasers to be about as unhappy as most other married people . 
And yet it was a most desirable match for Janet at the time . 
And my friend does not manage him well she does not seem to know how to make the best of it . 
There is a spirit of irritation which , to say nothing worse , is certainly very ill bred . 
In their house I shall call to mind the conjugal manners of Mansfield Parsonage with respect . 
I shall be at Mansfield for ever , Fanny . 
My own sister as a wife , Sir Thomas Bertram as a husband , are my standards of perfection . 
Poor Janet has been sadly taken in , and yet there was nothing improper on her side she did not run into the match inconsiderately there was no want of foresight . 
This seems as if nothing were a security for matrimonial comfort . 
I had my doubts at the time about her being right , for he has not even the air of a gentleman , and now I am sure she was wrong . 
By the bye , Flora Ross was dying for Henry the first winter she came out . 
But were I to attempt to tell you of all the women whom I have known to be in love with him , I should never have done . 
It is you , only you , insensible Fanny , who can think of him with anything like indifference . 
But are you so insensible as you profess yourself ? No , no , I see you are not . 
There was , indeed , so deep a blush over Fanny's face at that moment as might warrant strong suspicion in a predisposed mind . 
Excellent creature ! I will not tease you . 
Everything shall take its course . 
But , dear Fanny , you must allow that you were not so absolutely unprepared to have the question asked as your cousin fancies . 
It is not possible but that you must have had some thoughts on the subject , some surmises as to what might be . 
You must have seen that he was trying to please you by every attention in his power . 
Was not he devoted to you at the ball ? And then before the ball , the necklace ! Oh ! you received it just as it was meant . 
You were as conscious as heart could desire . 
Do you mean , then , that your brother knew of the necklace beforehand ? Oh ! Miss Crawford , that was not fair . 
Knew of it ! It was his own doing entirely , his own thought . 
I am ashamed to say that it had never entered my head , but I was delighted to act on his proposal for both your sakes . 
It is as true as that I sit here . 
And had I had an idea of it , nothing should have induced me to accept the necklace . 
I had not , Miss Crawford , been an inattentive observer of what was passing between him and some part of this family in the summer and autumn . 
I was quiet , but I was not blind . 
I could not but see that Mr. Crawford allowed himself in gallantries which did mean nothing . 
Ah ! I cannot deny it . 
He has now and then been a sad flirt , and cared very little for the havoc he might be making in young ladies' affections . 
I have often scolded him for it , but it is his only fault and there is this to be said , that very few young ladies have any affections worth caring for . 
I cannot think well of a man who sports with any woman's feelings and there may often be a great deal more suffered than a stander by can judge of . 
I do not defend him . 
I leave him entirely to your mercy , and when he has got you at Everingham , I do not care how much you lecture him . 
If any man ever loved a woman for ever , I think Henry will do as much for you . 
Fanny could not avoid a faint smile , but had nothing to say . 
I cannot imagine Henry ever to have been happier , continued Mary presently , than when he had succeeded in getting your brother's commission . 
She had made a sure push at Fanny's feelings here . 
How very , very kind of him . 
I know he must have exerted himself very much , for I know the parties he had to move . 
What a happy creature William must be ! I wish we could see him . 
Poor Fanny's mind was thrown into the most distressing of all its varieties . 
A very , very kind embrace , and some agitation of manner , accompanied these words . 
I have two favours to ask , Fanny one is your correspondence . 
You must write to me . 
And the other , that you will often call on Mrs. Grant , and make her amends for my being gone . 
There was no resisting so much apparent affection . 
Her disposition was peculiarly calculated to value a fond treatment , and from having hitherto known so little of it , she was the more overcome by Miss Crawford's . 
Besides , there was gratitude towards her , for having made their tete a tete so much less painful than her fears had predicted . 
It was over , and she had escaped without reproaches and without detection . 
Her secret was still her own and while that was the case , she thought she could resign herself to almost everything . 
In the evening there was another parting . 
Quite unlike his usual self , he scarcely said anything . 
He was evidently oppressed , and Fanny must grieve for him , though hoping she might never see him again till he were the husband of some other woman . 
On the morrow the Crawfords were gone . 
He watched her with this idea but he could hardly tell with what success . 
He hardly knew whether there were any difference in her spirits or not . 
She was always so gentle and retiring that her emotions were beyond his discrimination . 
Edmund did not discern any symptoms of regret , and thought his father a little unreasonable in supposing the first three or four days could produce any . 
What chiefly surprised Edmund was , that Crawford's sister , the friend and companion who had been so much to her , should not be more visibly regretted . 
He wondered that Fanny spoke so seldom of her , and had so little voluntarily to say of her concern at this separation . 
Alas ! it was this sister , this friend and companion , who was now the chief bane of Fanny's comfort . 
On his side the inclination was stronger , on hers less equivocal . 
It could only be imputed to increasing attachment . 
His good and her bad feelings yielded to love , and such love must unite them . 
She might love , but she did not deserve Edmund by any other sentiment . 
But as such were Fanny's persuasions , she suffered very much from them , and could never speak of Miss Crawford without pain . 
He came and he would have been delighted to shew his uniform there too , had not cruel custom prohibited its appearance except on duty . 
This scheme was that she should accompany her brother back to Portsmouth , and spend a little time with her own family . 
It had occurred to Sir Thomas , in one of his dignified musings , as a right and desirable measure but before he absolutely made up his mind , he consulted his son . 
Edmund considered it every way , and saw nothing but what was right . 
The thing was good in itself , and could not be done at a better time and he had no doubt of it being highly agreeable to Fanny . 
It was a medicinal project upon his niece's understanding , which he must consider as at present diseased . 
A residence of eight or nine years in the abode of wealth and plenty had a little disordered her powers of comparing and judging . 
At the moment she could only thank and accept . 
This was a prospect to be dwelt on with a fondness that could be but half acknowledged . 
What might have been hard to bear at Mansfield was to become a slight evil at Portsmouth . 
The only drawback was the doubt of her aunt Bertram's being comfortable without her . 
But he was master at Mansfield Park . 
Sir Thomas had appealed to her reason , conscience , and dignity . 
He called it a sacrifice , and demanded it of her goodness and self command as such . 
That may be , sister , was all Lady Bertram's reply . 
I dare say you are very right but I am sure I shall miss her very much . 
The next step was to communicate with Portsmouth . 
She had probably alienated love by the helplessness and fretfulness of a fearful temper , or been unreasonable in wanting a larger share than any one among so many could deserve . 
William was almost as happy in the plan as his sister . 
He did not scruple to add that her being at home for a while would be a great advantage to everybody . 
I do not know how it is , said he but we seem to want some of your nice ways and orderliness at my father's . 
The house is always in confusion . 
You will set things going in a better way , I am sure . 
William and Fanny were horror struck at the idea . 
All the comfort of their comfortable journey would be destroyed at once . 
With woeful countenances they looked at each other . 
Their suspense lasted an hour or two . 
No one interfered to encourage or dissuade . 
It had , in fact , occurred to her , that though taken to Portsmouth for nothing , it would be hardly possible for her to avoid paying her own expenses back again . 
So her poor dear sister Price was left to all the disappointment of her missing such an opportunity , and another twenty years' absence , perhaps , begun . 
Edmund's plans were affected by this Portsmouth journey , this absence of Fanny's . 
He too had a sacrifice to make to Mansfield Park as well as his aunt . 
He told Fanny of it . 
She knew so much already , that she must know everything . 
Once afterwards she was alluded to by him . 
Had she doubted his meaning while she listened , the glow in his face , when she looked up at him , would have been decisive . 
For this letter she must try to arm herself . 
The vicissitudes of the human mind had not yet been exhausted by her . 
Poor Fanny ! though going as she did willingly and eagerly , the last evening at Mansfield Park must still be wretchedness . 
Her heart was completely sad at parting . 
She had tears for every room in the house , much more for every beloved inhabitant . 
Of pleasant talk between the brother and sister there was no end . 
Fanny's immediate concerns , as far as they involved Mr. Crawford , made no part of their conversation . 
She had reason to suppose herself not yet forgotten by Mr. Crawford . 
It was a correspondence which Fanny found quite as unpleasant as she had feared . 
Here , too , her present removal promised advantage . 
Fanny was all agitation and flutter all hope and apprehension . 
We have been looking for you this half hour . 
The Thrush went out of harbour this morning . 
It was a beautiful sight . 
And they think she will have her orders in a day or two . 
But manner Fanny did not want . 
Would they but love her , she should be satisfied . 
Her mother , however , could not stay long enough to suspect anything . 
She was gone again to the street door , to welcome William . 
Oh ! my dear William , how glad I am to see you . 
It takes me quite unawares . 
And now you must be off for Spithead too . 
Her son answered cheerfully , telling her that everything was always for the best and making light of his own inconvenience in being obliged to hurry away so soon . 
Poor dears ! how tired you must both be ! and now , what will you have ? I began to think you would never come . 
Betsey and I have been watching for you this half hour . 
And now I am afraid Campbell will be here before there is time to dress a steak , and we have no butcher at hand . 
It is very inconvenient to have no butcher in the street . 
We were better off in our last house . 
Perhaps you would like some tea as soon as it can be got . 
They both declared they should prefer it to anything . 
I wish we could get the bell mended but Betsey is a very handy little messenger . 
Betsey went with alacrity , proud to shew her abilities before her fine new sister . 
Dear me ! continued the anxious mother , what a sad fire we have got , and I dare say you are both starved with cold . 
Draw your chair nearer , my dear . 
I cannot think what Rebecca has been about . 
I am sure I told her to bring some coals half an hour ago . 
Susan , you should have taken care of the fire . 
I was upstairs , mama , moving my things , said Susan , in a fearless , self defending tone , which startled Fanny . 
You know you had but just settled that my sister Fanny and I should have the other room and I could not get Rebecca to give me any help . 
Fanny with doubting feelings had risen to meet him , but sank down again on finding herself undistinguished in the dusk , and unthought of . 
With a friendly shake of his son's hand , and an eager voice , he instantly began Ha ! welcome back , my boy . 
Have you heard the news ? The Thrush went out of harbour this morning . 
I have been to Turner's about your mess it is all in a way to be done . 
By G , I wish you may ! But old Scholey was saying , just now , that he thought you would be sent first to the Texel . 
Well , well , we are ready , whatever happens . 
Old Scholey ran in at breakfast time , to say she had slipped her moorings and was coming out , I jumped up , and made but two steps to the platform . 
If ever there was a perfect beauty afloat , she is one and there she lays at Spithead , and anybody in England would take her for an eight and twenty . 
I was upon the platform two hours this afternoon looking at her . 
She lays close to the Endymion , between her and the Cleopatra , just to the eastward of the sheer hulk . 
Ha ! cried William , that's just where I should have put her myself . 
It's the best berth at Spithead . 
But here is my sister , sir here is Fanny , turning and leading her forward it is so dark you do not see her . 
Charles had been born since Fanny's going away , but Tom she had often helped to nurse , and now felt a particular pleasure in seeing again . 
But though she had seen all the members of the family , she had not yet heard all the noise they could make . 
Another quarter of an hour brought her a great deal more . 
William was soon calling out from the landing place of the second story for his mother and for Rebecca . 
He was in distress for something that he had left there , and did not find again . 
But , alas ! it was not such a home , she had not such a welcome , as she checked herself she was unreasonable . 
Perhaps it must be so . 
The destination of the Thrush must be now preeminently interesting . 
A day or two might shew the difference . 
She only was to blame . 
Yet she thought it would not have been so at Mansfield . 
The only interruption which thoughts like these received for nearly half an hour was from a sudden burst of her father's , not at all calculated to compose them . 
Holla , you there ! Sam , stop your confounded pipe , or I shall be after you . 
The next opening of the door brought something more welcome it was for the tea things , which she had begun almost to despair of seeing that evening . 
Fanny's spirit was as much refreshed as her body her head and heart were soon the better for such well timed kindness . 
Susan had an open , sensible countenance she was like William , and Fanny hoped to find her like him in disposition and goodwill towards herself . 
In this more placid state of things William reentered , followed not far behind by his mother and Betsey . 
Her year ! cried Mrs. Price I am sure I hope I shall be rid of her before she has staid a year , for that will not be up till November . 
Servants are come to such a pass , my dear , in Portsmouth , that it is quite a miracle if one keeps them more than half a year . 
I have no hope of ever being settled and if I was to part with Rebecca , I should only get something worse . 
Fanny was silent but not from being convinced that there might not be a remedy found for some of these evils . 
There had been something remarkably amiable about her . 
Fanny in those early days had preferred her to Susan and when the news of her death had at last reached Mansfield , had for a short time been quite afflicted . 
The sight of Betsey brought the image of little Mary back again , but she would not have pained her mother by alluding to her for the world . 
While considering her with these ideas , Betsey , at a small distance , was holding out something to catch her eyes , meaning to screen it at the same time from Susan's . 
What have you got there , my love ? said Fanny come and shew it to me . 
It was a silver knife . 
Every feeling of duty , honour , and tenderness was wounded by her sister's speech and her mother's reply . 
Now , Susan , cried Mrs. Price , in a complaining voice , now , how can you be so cross ? You are always quarrelling about that knife . 
I wish you would not be so quarrelsome . 
Poor little Betsey how cross Susan is to you ! But you should not have taken it out , my dear , when I sent you to the drawer . 
You know I told you not to touch it , because Susan is so cross about it . 
I must hide it another time , Betsey . 
Poor Mary little thought it would be such a bone of contention when she gave it me to keep , only two hours before she died . 
Poor little dear ! she was so fond of it , Fanny , that she would have it lay by her in bed , all through her illness . 
It was the gift of her good godmother , old Mrs. Admiral Maxwell , only six weeks before she was taken for death . 
Poor little sweet creature ! Well , she was taken away from evil to come . 
, you have not the luck of such a good godmother . 
Aunt Norris lives too far off to think of such little people as you . 
Fanny had indeed nothing to convey from aunt Norris , but a message to say she hoped that her god daughter was a good girl , and learnt her book . 
There had been at one moment a slight murmur in the drawing room at Mansfield Park about sending her a prayer book but no second sound had been heard of such a purpose . 
Mrs. Norris , however , had gone home and taken down two old prayer books of her husband with that idea but , upon examination , the ardour of generosity went off . 
One was found to have too small a print for a child's eyes , and the other to be too cumbersome for her to carry about . 
There was nothing to raise her spirits in the confined and scantily furnished chamber that she was to share with Susan . 
The smallness of the rooms above and below , indeed , and the narrowness of the passage and staircase , struck her beyond her imagination . 
She soon learned to think with respect of her own little attic at Mansfield Park , in that house reckoned too small for anybody's comfort . 
Could he have seen only half that she felt before the end of a week , he would have thought Mr. Crawford sure of her , and been delighted with his own sagacity . 
Before the week ended , it was all disappointment . 
In the first place , William was gone . 
Everything in that quarter failed her , except William's affection . 
His last thought on leaving home was for her . 
He stepped back again to the door to say , Take care of Fanny , mother . 
She is tender , and not used to rough it like the rest of us . 
I charge you , take care of Fanny . 
It was the abode of noise , disorder , and impropriety . 
Nobody was in their right place , nothing was done as it ought to be . 
She could not respect her parents as she had hoped . 
She had never been able to recall anything approaching to tenderness in his former treatment of herself . 
There had remained only a general impression of roughness and loudness and now he scarcely ever noticed her , but to make her the object of a coarse joke . 
Her disappointment in her mother was greater there she had hoped much , and found almost nothing . 
Every flattering scheme of being of consequence to her soon fell to the ground . 
The instinct of nature was soon satisfied , and Mrs. Price's attachment had no other source . 
Her heart and her time were already quite full she had neither leisure nor affection to bestow on Fanny . 
Her daughters never had been much to her . 
She was fond of her sons , especially of William , but Betsey was the first of her girls whom she had ever much regarded . 
To her she was most injudiciously indulgent . 
William was her pride Betsey her darling and John , Richard , Sam , Tom , and Charles occupied all the rest of her maternal solicitude , alternately her worries and her comforts . 
These shared her heart her time was given chiefly to her house and her servants . 
Of her two sisters , Mrs. Price very much more resembled Lady Bertram than Mrs. Norris . 
She was a manager by necessity , without any of Mrs. Norris's inclination for it , or any of her activity . 
She might have made just as good a woman of consequence as Lady Bertram , but Mrs. Norris would have been a more respectable mother of nine children on a small income . 
Much of all this Fanny could not but be sensible of . 
She had great pleasure in feeling her usefulness , but could not conceive how they would have managed without her . 
Their sister soon despaired of making the smallest impression on them they were quite untameable by any means of address which she had spirits or time to attempt . 
Every afternoon brought a return of their riotous games all over the house and she very early learned to sigh at the approach of Saturday's constant half holiday . 
Such was the home which was to put Mansfield out of her head , and teach her to think of her cousin Edmund with moderated feelings . 
On the contrary , she could think of nothing but Mansfield , its beloved inmates , its happy ways . 
Everything where she now was in full contrast to it . 
The living in incessant noise was , to a frame and temper delicate and nervous like Fanny's , an evil which no superadded elegance or harmony could have entirely atoned for . 
It was the greatest misery of all . 
Whatever was wanted was hallooed for , and the servants hallooed out their excuses from the kitchen . 
The doors were in constant banging , the stairs were never at rest , nothing was done without a clatter , nobody sat still , and nobody could command attention when they spoke . 
In a review of the two houses , as they appeared to her before the end of a week , Fanny was tempted to apply to them Dr . 
Johnson's celebrated judgment as to matrimony and celibacy , and say , that though Mansfield Park might have some pains , Portsmouth could have no pleasures . 
Here was another strange revolution of mind ! She was really glad to receive the letter when it did come . 
We seemed very glad to see each other , and I do really think we were a little . 
We had a vast deal to say . 
Upon the whole , Julia was in the best looks of the two , at least after you were spoken of . 
There was no recovering the complexion from the moment that I spoke of 'Fanny , and spoke of her as a sister should . 
But Mrs. Rushworth's day of good looks will come we have cards for her first party on the th . 
Then she will be in beauty , for she will open one of the best houses in Wimpole Street . 
Henry could not have afforded her such a house . 
She will grow sober by degrees . 
From all that I hear and guess , Baron Wildenheim's attentions to Julia continue , but I do not know that he has any serious encouragement . 
She ought to do better . 
A poor honourable is no catch , and I cannot imagine any liking in the case , for take away his rants , and the poor baron has nothing . 
What a difference a vowel makes ! If his rents were but equal to his rants ! Your cousin Edmund moves slowly detained , perchance , by parish duties . 
There may be some old woman at Thornton Lacey to be converted . 
I am unwilling to fancy myself neglected for a young one . 
Her correspondence with her aunt Bertram was her only concern of higher interest . 
The men appeared to her all coarse , the women all pert , everybody underbred and she gave as little contentment as she received from introductions either to old or new acquaintance . 
Susan saw that much was wrong at home , and wanted to set it right . 
In every argument with her mother , Susan had in point of reason the advantage , and never was there any maternal tenderness to buy her off . 
The blind fondness which was for ever producing evil around her she had never known . 
There was no gratitude for affection past or present to make her better bear with its excesses to the others . 
All this became gradually evident , and gradually placed Susan before her sister as an object of mingled compassion and respect . 
The intimacy thus begun between them was a material advantage to each . 
By sitting together upstairs , they avoided a great deal of the disturbance of the house Fanny had peace , and Susan learned to think it no misfortune to be quietly employed . 
They sat without a fire but that was a privation familiar even to Fanny , and she suffered the less because reminded by it of the East room . 
It was the only point of resemblance . 
There were none in her father's house but wealth is luxurious and daring , and some of hers found its way to a circulating library . 
Susan had read nothing , and Fanny longed to give her a share in her own first pleasures , and inspire a taste for the biography and poetry which she delighted in herself . 
She had no doubt of what would ensue . 
The promised notification was hanging over her head . 
The postman's knock within the neighbourhood was beginning to bring its daily terrors , and if reading could banish the idea for even half an hour , it was something gained . 
CHAPTER XLI A week was gone since Edmund might be supposed in town , and Fanny had heard nothing of him . 
There were three different conclusions to be drawn from his silence , between which her mind was in fluctuation each of them at times being held the most probable . 
It was a gentleman's voice it was a voice that Fanny was just turning pale about , when Mr. Crawford walked into the room . 
The consciousness of his being known there only as William's friend was some support . 
Mrs. Price's manners were also at their best . 
Mr. Price was out , which she regretted very much . 
She might scold herself for the weakness , but there was no scolding it away . 
She was ashamed , and she would have been yet more ashamed of her father than of all the rest . 
They talked of William , a subject on which Mrs. Price could never tire and Mr. Crawford was as warm in his commendation as even her heart could wish . 
Nothing of all that she had been used to think of as the proof of importance , or the employment of wealth , had brought him to Portsmouth . 
Now they came to an understanding . 
Mrs. Price , it appeared , scarcely ever stirred out of doors , except of a Sunday she owned she could seldom , with her large family , find time for a walk . 
Would she not , then , persuade her daughters to take advantage of such weather , and allow him the pleasure of attending them ? Mrs. Price was greatly obliged and very complying . 
He stopt and , ungentlemanlike as he looked , Fanny was obliged to introduce him to Mr. Crawford . 
She could not have a doubt of the manner in which Mr. Crawford must be struck . 
He must be ashamed and disgusted altogether . 
her father was a very different man , a very different Mr. Price in his behaviour to this most highly respected stranger , from what he was in his own family at home . 
Such was his instinctive compliment to the good manners of Mr. Crawford and , be the consequence what it might , Fanny's immediate feelings were infinitely soothed . 
Fanny was most conveniently in want of rest . 
Crawford could not have wished her more fatigued or more ready to sit down but he could have wished her sister away . 
Norfolk was what he had mostly to talk of there he had been some time , and everything there was rising in importance from his present schemes . 
For Fanny , somewhat more was related than the accidental agreeableness of the parties he had been in . 
For her approbation , the particular reason of his going into Norfolk at all , at this unusual time of year , was given . 
It had been real business , relative to the renewal of a lease in which the welfare of a large and he believed industrious family was at stake . 
He had suspected his agent of some underhand dealing of meaning to bias him against the deserving and he had determined to go himself , and thoroughly investigate the merits of the case . 
This was aimed , and well aimed , at Fanny . 
It was pleasing to hear him speak so properly here he had been acting as he ought to do . 
She turned away , and wished he would not say such things . 
She was willing to allow he might have more good qualities than she had been wont to suppose . 
She began to feel the possibility of his turning out well at last but he was and must ever be completely unsuited to her , and ought not to think of her . 
He perceived that enough had been said of Everingham , and that it would be as well to talk of something else , and turned to Mansfield . 
He could not have chosen better that was a topic to bring back her attention and her looks almost instantly . 
It was a real indulgence to her to hear or to speak of Mansfield . 
He particularly built upon a very happy summer and autumn there this year he felt that it would be so he depended upon it a summer and autumn infinitely superior to the last . 
As animated , as diversified , as social , but with circumstances of superiority undescribable . 
It was a subject which she must learn to speak of , and the weakness that shrunk from it would soon be quite unpardonable . 
She was nice only from natural delicacy , but he had been brought up in a school of luxury and epicurism . 
CHAPTER XLII The Prices were just setting off for church the next day when Mr. Crawford appeared again . 
The family were now seen to advantage . 
Nature had given them no inconsiderable share of beauty , and every Sunday dressed them in their cleanest skins and best attire . 
Sunday always brought this comfort to Fanny , and on this Sunday she felt it more than ever . 
Her poor mother now did not look so very unworthy of being Lady Bertram's sister as she was but too apt to look . 
Mrs. Price took her weekly walk on the ramparts every fine Sunday throughout the year , always going directly after morning service and staying till dinner time . 
It made her uncomfortable for a time , but yet there were enjoyments in the day and in the view which would be felt . 
The day was uncommonly lovely . 
The loveliness of the day , and of the view , he felt like herself . 
You have been here a month , I think ? said he . 
No not quite a month . 
It is only four weeks to morrow since I left Mansfield . 
You are a most accurate and honest reckoner . 
I should call that a month . 
I did not arrive here till Tuesday evening . 
And it is to be a two months' visit , is not ? Yes . 
My uncle talked of two months . 
I suppose it will not be less . 
And how are you to be conveyed back again ? Who comes for you ? I do not know . 
I have heard nothing about it yet from my aunt . 
Perhaps I may be to stay longer . 
It may not be convenient for me to be fetched exactly at the two months' end . 
After a moment's reflection , Mr. Crawford replied , I know Mansfield , I know its way , I know its faults towards you . 
I know the danger of your being so far forgotten , as to have your comforts give way to the imaginary convenience of any single being in the family . 
Two months is an ample allowance I should think six weeks quite enough . 
I am considering your sister's health , said he , addressing himself to Susan , which I think the confinement of Portsmouth unfavourable to . 
She requires constant air and exercise . 
You know the ease and the pleasure with which this would be done . 
You know all that would be felt on the occasion . 
Fanny thanked him , but tried to laugh it off . 
I am perfectly serious , he replied , as you perfectly know . 
And I hope you will not be cruelly concealing any tendency to indisposition . 
This was towards the close of their walk . 
I wish you were not so tired , said he , still detaining Fanny after all the others were in the house I wish I left you in stronger health . 
Is there anything I can do for you in town ? I have half an idea of going into Norfolk again soon . 
I am not satisfied about Maddison . 
I am sure he still means to impose on me if possible , and get a cousin of his own into a certain mill , which I design for somebody else . 
I must come to an understanding with him . 
I must make him know that I will not be tricked on the south side of Everingham , any more than on the north that I will be master of my own property . 
I was not explicit enough with him before . 
The mischief such a man does on an estate , both as to the credit of his employer and the welfare of the poor , is inconceivable . 
I have a great mind to go back into Norfolk directly , and put everything at once on such a footing as cannot be afterwards swerved from . 
Would it not be worse than simple ? Shall I go ? Do you advise it ? I advise ! You know very well what is right . 
When you give me your opinion , I always know what is right . 
Your judgment is my rule of right . 
Oh , no ! do not say so . 
We have all a better guide in ourselves , if we would attend to it , than any other person can be . 
Good bye I wish you a pleasant journey to morrow . 
Is there nothing I can do for you in town ? Nothing I am much obliged to you . 
Certainly and if he is lazy or negligent , I will write his excuses myself . 
He could say no more , for Fanny would be no longer detained . 
He pressed her hand , looked at her , and was gone . 
Fanny was out of spirits all the rest of the day . 
Though tolerably secure of not seeing Mr. Crawford again , she could not help being low . 
The wonderful improvement which she still fancied in Mr. Crawford was the nearest to administering comfort of anything within the current of her thoughts . 
This , as well as I understand , is to be the substance of my information . 
I have no news for you . 
You have politics , of course and it would be too bad to plague you with the names of people and parties that fill up my time . 
My friend , Mrs. Fraser , is mad for such a house , and it would not make me miserable . 
I go to Lady Stornaway after Easter she seems in high spirits , and very happy . 
He will not do by the side of your cousin Edmund . 
Of the last mentioned hero , what shall I say ? If I avoided his name entirely , it would look suspicious . 
I will say , then , that we have seen him two or three times , and that my friends here are very much struck with his gentlemanlike appearance . 
Luckily there is no distinction of dress nowadays to tell tales , but but but Yours affectionately . 
one very material thing I had to say from Henry and myself I mean about our taking you back into Northamptonshire . 
My dear little creature , do not stay at Portsmouth to lose your pretty looks . 
Those vile sea breezes are the ruin of beauty and health . 
My poor aunt always felt affected if within ten miles of the sea , which the Admiral of course never believed , but I know it was so . 
I am at your service and Henry's , at an hour's notice . 
Only keep your cousin Edmund from me at such a time I should not like to be tempted . 
What a long letter ! one word more . 
The value of a man like Henry , on such an occasion , is what you can have no conception of so you must take it upon my word to be inestimable . 
He will see the Rushworths , which own I am not sorry for having a little curiosity , and so I think has he though he will not acknowledge it . 
This was a letter to be run through eagerly , to be read deliberately , to supply matter for much reflection , and to leave everything in greater suspense than ever . 
The only certainty to be drawn from it was , that nothing decisive had yet taken place . 
Edmund had not yet spoken . 
She would try to be more ambitious than her heart would allow . 
She would hesitate , she would tease , she would condition , she would require a great deal , but she would finally accept . 
This was Fanny's most frequent expectation . 
A house in town that , she thought , must be impossible . 
Yet there was no saying what Miss Crawford might not ask . 
The prospect for her cousin grew worse and worse . 
Those parts of the letter which related only to Mr. Crawford and herself , touched her , in comparison , slightly . 
Whether Mr. Crawford went into Norfolk before or after the th was certainly no concern of hers , though , everything considered , she thought he would go without delay . 
He acknowledged no such inducement , and his sister ought to have given him credit for better feelings than her own . 
She could not command her attention as she wished . 
Suspense must be submitted to , and must not be allowed to wear her out , and make her useless . 
Time did something , her own exertions something more , and she resumed her attentions to Susan , and again awakened the same interest in them . 
Fanny's explanations and remarks were a most important addition to every essay , or every chapter of history . 
The early habit of reading was wanting . 
Their conversations , however , were not always on subjects so high as history or morals . 
Susan , who had an innate taste for the genteel and well appointed , was eager to hear , and Fanny could not but indulge herself in dwelling on so beloved a theme . 
That a girl so capable of being made everything good should be left in such hands , distressed her more and more . 
She thought he was really good tempered , and could fancy his entering into a plan of that sort most pleasantly . 
CHAPTER XLIV Seven weeks of the two months were very nearly gone , when the one letter , the letter from Edmund , so long expected , was put into Fanny's hands . 
These were the contents My Dear Fanny , Excuse me that I have not written before . 
Crawford told me that you were wishing to hear from me , but I found it impossible to write from London , and persuaded myself that you would understand my silence . 
Could I have sent a few happy lines , they should not have been wanting , but nothing of that nature was ever in my power . 
I am returned to Mansfield in a less assured state that when I left it . 
My hopes are much weaker . 
You are probably aware of this already . 
So very fond of you as Miss Crawford is , it is most natural that she should tell you enough of her own feelings to furnish a tolerable guess at mine . 
I will not be prevented , however , from making my own communication . 
Our confidences in you need not clash . 
It will be a comfort to me to tell you how things now are , and what are my present plans , if plans I can be said to have . 
I have been returned since Saturday . 
I was three weeks in London , and saw her very often . 
I had every attention from the Frasers that could be reasonably expected . 
I dare say I was not reasonable in carrying with me hopes of an intercourse at all like that of Mansfield . 
It was her manner , however , rather than any unfrequency of meeting . 
You know the weak side of her character , and may imagine the sentiments and expressions which were torturing me . 
She was in high spirits , and surrounded by those who were giving all the support of their own bad sense to her too lively mind . 
I do not like Mrs. Fraser . 
I look upon her intimacy with those two sisters as the greatest misfortune of her life and mine . 
They have been leading her astray for years . 
Could she be detached from them ! and sometimes I do not despair of it , for the affection appears to me principally on their side . 
They are very fond of her but I am sure she does not love them as she loves you . 
I cannot give her up , Fanny . 
She is the only woman in the world whom I could ever think of as a wife . 
If I did not believe that she had some regard for me , of course I should not say this , but I do believe it . 
I am convinced that she is not without a decided preference . 
I have no jealousy of any individual . 
It is the influence of the fashionable world altogether that I am jealous of . 
It is the habits of wealth that I fear . 
Her ideas are not higher than her own fortune may warrant , but they are beyond what our incomes united could authorise . 
There is comfort , however , even here . 
I could better bear to lose her because not rich enough , than because of my profession . 
Her prejudices , I trust , are not so strong as they were . 
You have my thoughts exactly as they arise , my dear Fanny perhaps they are sometimes contradictory , but it will not be a less faithful picture of my mind . 
Having once begun , it is a pleasure to me to tell you all I feel . 
I cannot give her up . 
The loss of Mary I must consider as comprehending the loss of Crawford and of Fanny . 
Were I refused , I must bear it and till I am , I can never cease to try for her . 
Even now , she speaks with pleasure of being in Mansfield in June but June is at a great distance , and I believe I shall write to her . 
I have nearly determined on explaining myself by letter . 
To be at an early certainty is a material object . 
My present state is miserably irksome . 
Considering everything , I think a letter will be decidedly the best method of explanation . 
My greatest danger would lie in her consulting Mrs. Fraser , and I at a distance unable to help my own cause . 
I must think this matter over a little . 
This long letter , full of my own concerns alone , will be enough to tire even the friendship of a Fanny . 
The last time I saw Crawford was at Mrs. Fraser's party . 
I am more and more satisfied with all that I see and hear of him . 
There is not a shadow of wavering . 
He thoroughly knows his own mind , and acts up to his resolutions an inestimable quality . 
I could not see him and my eldest sister in the same room without recollecting what you once told me , and I acknowledge that they did not meet as friends . 
There was marked coolness on her side . 
I saw him draw back surprised , and I was sorry that Mrs. Rushworth should resent any former supposed slight to Miss Bertram . 
You will wish to hear my opinion of Maria's degree of comfort as a wife . 
There is no appearance of unhappiness . 
I hope they get on pretty well together . 
I dined twice in Wimpole Street , and might have been there oftener , but it is mortifying to be with Rushworth as a brother . 
Julia seems to enjoy London exceedingly . 
I had little enjoyment there , but have less here . 
We are not a lively party . 
You are very much wanted . 
I miss you more than I can express . 
My mother desires her best love , and hopes to hear from you soon . 
She talks of you almost every hour , and I am sorry to find how many weeks more she is likely to be without you . 
My father means to fetch you himself , but it will not be till after Easter , when he has business in town . 
You are happy at Portsmouth , I hope , but this must not be a yearly visit . 
I want you at home , that I may have your opinion about Thornton Lacey . 
I have little heart for extensive improvements till I know that it will ever have a mistress . 
I think I shall certainly write . 
It is quite settled that the Grants go to Bath they leave Mansfield on Monday . 
I am glad of it . 
Yours ever , my dearest Fanny . 
I never will , no , I certainly never will wish for a letter again , was Fanny's secret declaration as she finished this . 
As for the main subject of the letter , there was nothing in that to soothe irritation . 
She was almost vexed into displeasure and anger against Edmund . 
There is no good in this delay , said she . 
Why is not it settled ? He is blinded , and nothing will open his eyes nothing can , after having had truths before him so long in vain . 
He will marry her , and be poor and miserable . 
God grant that her influence do not make him cease to be respectable ! She looked over the letter again . 
'So very fond of me ! 'tis nonsense all . 
She loves nobody but herself and her brother . 
Her friends leading her astray for years ! She is quite as likely to have led them astray . 
'The only woman in the world whom he could ever think of as a wife . 
It is an attachment to govern his whole life . 
Accepted or refused , his heart is wedded to her for ever . 
'The loss of Mary I must consider as comprehending the loss of Crawford and Fanny . 
Edmund , you do not know me . 
The families would never be connected if you did not connect them ! Oh ! write , write . 
Let there be an end of this suspense . 
Fix , commit , condemn yourself . 
Such sensations , however , were too near akin to resentment to be long guiding Fanny's soliloquies . 
She was soon more softened and sorrowful . 
His warm regard , his kind expressions , his confidential treatment , touched her strongly . 
He was only too good to everybody . 
It was a letter , in short , which she would not but have had for the world , and which could never be valued enough . 
This was the end of it . 
Grant's gouty symptoms and Mrs. Grant's morning calls , it was very hard upon her to be deprived of one of the last epistolary uses she could put them to . 
There was a rich amends , however , preparing for her . 
Lady Bertram's hour of good luck came . 
As I have little doubt of your feeling for us , my dear Fanny , under these distressing circumstances , I will write again very soon . 
Fanny's feelings on the occasion were indeed considerably more warm and genuine than her aunt's style of writing . 
She felt truly for them all . 
Tom dangerously ill , Edmund gone to attend him , and the sadly small party remaining at Mansfield , were cares to shut out every other care , or almost every other . 
It was a sort of playing at being frightened . 
He is just come , my dear Fanny , and is taken upstairs and I am so shocked to see him , that I do not know what to do . 
I am sure he has been very ill . 
Poor Tom ! I am quite grieved for him , and very much frightened , and so is Sir Thomas and how glad I should be if you were here to comfort me . 
But Sir Thomas hopes he will be better to morrow , and says we must consider his journey . 
The real solicitude now awakened in the maternal bosom was not soon over . 
They were all very seriously frightened . 
Susan was her only companion and listener on this , as on more common occasions . 
Susan was always ready to hear and to sympathise . 
So long divided and so differently situated , the ties of blood were little more than nothing . 
An attachment , originally as tranquil as their tempers , was now become a mere name . 
Mrs. Price did quite as much for Lady Bertram as Lady Bertram would have done for Mrs. Price . 
The fever was subdued the fever had been his complaint of course he would soon be well again . 
They were apprehensive for his lungs . 
A very few lines from Edmund shewed her the patient and the sickroom in a juster and stronger light than all Lady Bertram's sheets of paper could do . 
There was hardly any one in the house who might not have described , from personal observation , better than herself not one who was not more useful at times to her son . 
She could do nothing but glide in quietly and look at him but when able to talk or be talked to , or read to , Edmund was the companion he preferred . 
His aunt worried him by her cares , and Sir Thomas knew not how to bring down his conversation or his voice to the level of irritation and feebleness . 
Edmund was all in all . 
Even in the sick chamber the fortunate Mary was not forgotten . 
Edmund's letter had this postscript . 
When Tom is better , I shall go . 
Such was the state of Mansfield , and so it continued , with scarcely any change , till Easter . 
A line occasionally added by Edmund to his mother's letter was enough for Fanny's information . 
Tom's amendment was alarmingly slow . 
Easter came particularly late this year , as Fanny had most sorrowfully considered , on first learning that she had no chance of leaving Portsmouth till after it . 
It came , and she had yet heard nothing of her return nothing even of the going to London , which was to precede her return . 
Her aunt often expressed a wish for her , but there was no notice , no message from the uncle on whom all depended . 
She supposed he could not yet leave his son , but it was a cruel , a terrible delay to her . 
That was now the home . 
Portsmouth was Portsmouth Mansfield was home . 
I trust and hope , and sincerely wish you may never be absent from home so long again , were most delightful sentences to her . 
Still , however , it was her private regale . 
Delicacy to her parents made her careful not to betray such a preference of her uncle's house . 
It was always When I go back into Northamptonshire , or when I return to Mansfield , I shall do so and so . 
She reproached herself , coloured , and looked fearfully towards her father and mother . 
She need not have been uneasy . 
There was no sign of displeasure , or even of hearing her . 
They were perfectly free from any jealousy of Mansfield . 
She was as welcome to wish herself there as to be there . 
It was sad to Fanny to lose all the pleasures of spring . 
She had not known before what pleasures she had to lose in passing March and April in a town . 
She had not known before how much the beginnings and progress of vegetation had delighted her . 
She felt that she must have been of use to all . 
They might return to Mansfield when they chose travelling could be no difficulty to them , and she could not comprehend how both could still keep away . 
If Mrs. Rushworth could imagine any interfering obligations , Julia was certainly able to quit London whenever she chose . 
It appeared from one of her aunt's letters that Julia had offered to return if wanted , but this was all . 
It was evident that she would rather remain where she was . 
Fanny was disposed to think the influence of London very much at war with all respectable attachments . 
I want to know the state of things at Mansfield Park , and you , no doubt , are perfectly able to give it . 
One should be a brute not to feel for the distress they are in and from what I hear , poor Mr. Bertram has a bad chance of ultimate recovery . 
I thought little of his illness at first . 
I need not say how rejoiced I shall be to hear there has been any mistake , but the report is so prevalent that I confess I cannot help trembling . 
To have such a fine young man cut off in the flower of his days is most melancholy . 
Poor Sir Thomas will feel it dreadfully . 
I really am quite agitated on the subject . 
Fanny , Fanny , I see you smile and look cunning , but , upon my honour , I never bribed a physician in my life . 
It was a foolish precipitation last Christmas , but the evil of a few days may be blotted out in part . 
Varnish and gilding hide many stains . 
It will be but the loss of the Esquire after his name . 
With real affection , Fanny , like mine , more might be overlooked . 
Write to me by return of post , judge of my anxiety , and do not trifle with it . 
Tell me the real truth , as you have it from the fountainhead . 
And now , do not trouble yourself to be ashamed of either my feelings or your own . 
Believe me , they are not only natural , they are philanthropic and virtuous . 
I put it to your conscience , whether 'Sir Edmund' would not do more good with all the Bertram property than any other possible 'Sir . 
, and is not yet returned and Julia is with the cousins who live near Bedford Square , but I forget their name and street . 
I suppose Mrs. R. 's Easter holidays will not last much longer no doubt they are thorough holidays to her . 
The Aylmers are pleasant people and her husband away , she can have nothing but enjoyment . 
Do not you think Edmund would have been in town again long ago , but for this illness ? Yours ever , Mary . 
I had actually begun folding my letter when Henry walked in , but he brings no intelligence to prevent my sending it . 
Mrs. R. knows a decline is apprehended he saw her this morning she returns to Wimpole Street to day the old lady is come . 
Now do not make yourself uneasy with any queer fancies because he has been spending a few days at Richmond . 
He does it every spring . 
Be assured he cares for nobody but you . 
At this very moment he is wild to see you , and occupied only in contriving the means for doing so , and for making his pleasure conduce to yours . 
In proof , he repeats , and more eagerly , what he said at Portsmouth about our conveying you home , and I join him in it with all my soul . 
Dear Fanny , write directly , and tell us to come . 
It will do us all good . 
He and I can go to the Parsonage , you know , and be no trouble to our friends at Mansfield Park . 
I have not time or patience to give half Henry's messages be satisfied that the spirit of each and every one is unalterable affection . 
incapable of judging impartially whether the concluding offer might be accepted or not . 
To herself , individually , it was most tempting . 
To have him still the acquaintance , the flirt perhaps , of Mrs. Rushworth ! She was mortified . 
She had thought better of him . 
She had a rule to apply to , which settled everything . 
Her awe of her uncle , and her dread of taking a liberty with him , made it instantly plain to her what she had to do . 
She must absolutely decline the proposal . 
If he wanted , he would send for her and even to offer an early return was a presumption which hardly anything would have seemed to justify . 
She thanked Miss Crawford , but gave a decided negative . 
She had only learnt to think nothing of consequence but money . 
On receiving it , she could instantly decide on its containing little writing , and was persuaded of its having the air of a letter of haste and business . 
Say not a word of it hear nothing , surmise nothing , whisper nothing till I write again . 
I am sure it will be all hushed up , and nothing proved but Rushworth's folly . 
If they are gone , I would lay my life they are only gone to Mansfield Park , and Julia with them . 
But why would not you let us come for you ? I wish you may not repent it . 
As no scandalous , ill natured rumour had reached her , it was impossible for her to understand much of this strange letter . 
Miss Crawford need not be alarmed for her . 
She was only sorry for the parties concerned and for Mansfield , if the report should spread so far but she hoped it might not . 
Very uncomfortable she was , and must continue , till she heard from Miss Crawford again . 
It was impossible to banish the letter from her thoughts , and she could not relieve herself by speaking of it to any human being . 
Miss Crawford need not have urged secrecy with so much warmth she might have trusted to her sense of what was due to her cousin . 
The next day came and brought no second letter . 
She was deep in other musing . 
The remembrance of her first evening in that room , of her father and his newspaper , came across her . 
No candle was now wanted . 
The sun was yet an hour and half above the horizon . 
Here , its power was only a glare a stifling , sickly glare , serving but to bring forward stains and dirt that might otherwise have slept . 
There was neither health nor gaiety in sunshine in a town . 
And don't they live in Wimpole Street ? Yes , sir . 
much good may such fine relations do you . 
I don't know what Sir Thomas may think of such matters he may be too much of the courtier and fine gentleman to like his daughter the less . 
But , by G ! if she belonged to me , I'd give her the rope's end as long as I could stand over her . 
A little flogging for man and woman too would be the best way of preventing such things . 
It is a mistake , sir , said Fanny instantly it must be a mistake , it cannot be true it must mean some other people . 
She spoke from the instinctive wish of delaying shame she spoke with a resolution which sprung from despair , for she spoke what she did not , could not believe herself . 
It had been the shock of conviction as she read . 
The truth rushed on her and how she could have spoken at all , how she could even have breathed , was afterwards matter of wonder to herself . 
Mr. Price cared too little about the report to make her much answer . 
It might be all a lie , he acknowledged but so many fine ladies were going to the devil nowadays that way , that there was no answering for anybody . 
At first , it was a sort of stupefaction but every moment was quickening her perception of the horrible evil . 
She could not doubt , she dared not indulge a hope , of the paragraph being false . 
Miss Crawford's letter , which she had read so often as to make every line her own , was in frightful conformity with it . 
It was not Mr. and Mrs. Rushworth it was Mrs. Rushworth and Mr. Crawford . 
Fanny seemed to herself never to have been shocked before . 
There was no possibility of rest . 
The evening passed without a pause of misery , the night was totally sleepless . 
She passed only from feelings of sickness to shudderings of horror and from hot fits of fever to cold . 
The event was so shocking , that there were moments even when her heart revolted from it as impossible when she thought it could not be . 
His unsettled affections , wavering with his vanity , Maria's decided attachment , and no sufficient principle on either side , gave it possibility Miss Crawford's letter stampt it a fact . 
The mother's sufferings , the father's there she paused . 
Julia's , Tom's , Edmund's there a yet longer pause . 
They were the two on whom it would fall most horribly . 
Nothing happened the next day , or the next , to weaken her terrors . 
Two posts came in , and brought no refutation , public or private . 
This was an evil omen . 
It bore the London postmark , and came from Edmund . 
Dear Fanny , You know our present wretchedness . 
May God support you under your share ! We have been here two days , but there is nothing to be done . 
You may not have heard of the last blow Julia's elopement she is gone to Scotland with Yates . 
She left London a few hours before we entered it . 
At any other time this would have been felt dreadfully . 
Now it seems nothing yet it is an heavy aggravation . 
My father is not overpowered . 
He is still able to think and act and I write , by his desire , to propose your returning home . 
He is anxious to get you there for my mother's sake . 
I shall be at Portsmouth the morning after you receive this , and hope to find you ready to set off for Mansfield . 
My father wishes you to invite Susan to go with you for a few months . 
You may imagine something of my present state . 
There is no end of the evil let loose upon us . 
You will see me early by the mail . 
Never had Fanny more wanted a cordial . 
Never had she felt such a one as this letter contained . 
To morrow ! to leave Portsmouth to morrow ! She was , she felt she was , in the greatest danger of being exquisitely happy , while so many were miserable . 
The evil which brought such good to her ! She dreaded lest she should learn to be insensible of it . 
Julia's elopement could affect her comparatively but little she was amazed and shocked but it could not occupy her , could not dwell on her mind . 
There is nothing like employment , active indispensable employment , for relieving sorrow . 
Employment , even melancholy , may dispel melancholy , and her occupations were hopeful . 
She had so much to do , that not even the horrible story of Mrs. Rushworth now fixed to the last point of certainty could affect her as it had done before . 
She had not time to be miserable . 
Within twenty four hours she was hoping to be gone her father and mother must be spoken to , Susan prepared , everything got ready . 
Business followed business the day was hardly long enough . 
The affliction of the Bertrams was little felt in the family . 
The advantage of much sleep to prepare them for their journey was impossible . 
The cousin who was travelling towards them could hardly have less than visited their agitated spirits one all happiness , the other all varying and indescribable perturbation . 
By eight in the morning Edmund was in the house . 
The girls heard his entrance from above , and Fanny went down . 
The idea of immediately seeing him , with the knowledge of what he must be suffering , brought back all her own first feelings . 
He so near her , and in misery . 
She was ready to sink as she entered the parlour . 
Have you breakfasted ? When shall you be ready ? Does Susan go ? were questions following each other rapidly . 
His great object was to be off as soon as possible . 
When Mansfield was considered , time was precious and the state of his own mind made him find relief only in motion . 
It was settled that he should order the carriage to the door in half an hour . 
Fanny answered for their having breakfasted and being quite ready in half an hour . 
He had already ate , and declined staying for their meal . 
He would walk round the ramparts , and join them with the carriage . 
He was gone again glad to get away even from Fanny . 
He looked very ill evidently suffering under violent emotions , which he was determined to suppress . 
She knew it must be so , but it was terrible to her . 
Fanny's last meal in her father's house was in character with her first she was dismissed from it as hospitably as she had been welcomed . 
How her heart swelled with joy and gratitude as she passed the barriers of Portsmouth , and how Susan's face wore its broadest smiles , may be easily conceived . 
Sitting forwards , however , and screened by her bonnet , those smiles were unseen . 
The journey was likely to be a silent one . 
Edmund's deep sighs often reached Fanny . 
The next morning produced a little more . 
They were in the environs of Mansfield long before the usual dinner time , and as they approached the beloved place , the hearts of both sisters sank a little . 
Visions of good and ill breeding , of old vulgarisms and new gentilities , were before her and she was meditating much upon silver forks , napkins , and finger glasses . 
Fanny had been everywhere awake to the difference of the country since February but when they entered the Park her perceptions and her pleasures were of the keenest sort . 
It was three months , full three months , since her quitting it , and the change was from winter to summer . 
Her enjoyment , however , was for herself alone . 
Edmund could not share it . 
By one of the suffering party within they were expected with such impatience as she had never known before . 
CHAPTER XLVII It had been a miserable party , each of the three believing themselves most miserable . 
Mrs. Norris , however , as most attached to Maria , was really the greatest sufferer . 
She was an altered creature , quieted , stupefied , indifferent to everything that passed . 
When really touched by affliction , her active powers had been all benumbed and neither Lady Bertram nor Tom had received from her the smallest support or attempt at support . 
She had done no more for them than they had done for each other . 
They had been all solitary , helpless , and forlorn alike and now the arrival of the others only established her superiority in wretchedness . 
Her companions were relieved , but there was no good for her . 
Had Fanny accepted Mr. Crawford this could not have happened . 
Susan too was a grievance . 
By her other aunt , Susan was received with quiet kindness . 
To talk over the dreadful business with Fanny , talk and lament , was all Lady Bertram's consolation . 
To be listened to and borne with , and hear the voice of kindness and sympathy in return , was everything that could be done for her . 
To be otherwise comforted was out of the question . 
The case admitted of no comfort . 
Her affections were not acute , nor was her mind tenacious . 
Fanny learnt from her all the particulars which had yet transpired . 
His having been in the same neighbourhood Fanny already knew . 
for his advice Mr. Harding feared there had been at least very flagrant indiscretion . 
The maidservant of Mrs. Rushworth , senior , threatened alarmingly . 
This dreadful communication could not be kept from the rest of the family . 
Everything was by that time public beyond a hope . 
The servant of Mrs. Rushworth , the mother , had exposure in her power , and supported by her mistress , was not to be silenced . 
However that might be , she was unmanageable . 
His present state Fanny could hardly bear to think of . 
There was but one of his children who was not at this time a source of misery to him . 
She saw that it was . 
His letters expressed how much he deplored it . 
Such was his opinion of the set into which she had thrown herself . 
Fanny felt for him most acutely . 
He could have no comfort but in Edmund . 
Every other child must be racking his heart . 
His displeasure against herself she trusted , reasoning differently from Mrs. Norris , would now be done away . 
Mr. Crawford would have fully acquitted her conduct in refusing him but this , though most material to herself , would be poor consolation to Sir Thomas . 
Her uncle's displeasure was terrible to her but what could her justification or her gratitude and attachment do for him ? His stay must be on Edmund alone . 
She was mistaken , however , in supposing that Edmund gave his father no present pain . 
Fanny was not in the secret of her uncle's feelings , Sir Thomas not in the secret of Miss Crawford's character . 
Had he been privy to her conversation with his son , he would not have wished her to belong to him , though her twenty thousand pounds had been forty . 
She thought he did , but she wanted to be assured of it . 
If he would now speak to her with the unreserve which had sometimes been too much for her before , it would be most consoling but that she found was not to be . 
She seldom saw him never alone . 
He probably avoided being alone with her . 
This must be his state . 
He yielded , but it was with agonies which did not admit of speech . 
Long , long would it be ere Miss Crawford's name passed his lips again , or she could hope for a renewal of such confidential intercourse as had been . 
They reached Mansfield on Thursday , and it was not till Sunday evening that Edmund began to talk to her on the subject . 
He had seen Miss Crawford . 
He had been invited to see her . 
But as he proceeded in his story , these fears were over . 
'I heard you were in town , said she 'I wanted to see you . 
Let us talk over this sad business . 
What can equal the folly of our two relations ? I could not answer , but I believe my looks spoke . 
Sometimes how quick to feel ! With a graver look and voice she then added , 'I do not mean to defend Henry at your sister's expense . 
So she began , but how she went on , Fanny , is not fit , is hardly fit to be repeated to you . 
I cannot recall all her words . 
I would not dwell upon them if I could . 
Their substance was great anger at the folly of each . 
Guess what I must have felt . 
I will tell you everything , and then have done for ever . 
She saw it only as folly , and that folly stamped only by exposure . 
It was the imprudence which had brought things to extremity , and obliged her brother to give up every dearer plan in order to fly with her . 
, what could you say ? Nothing , nothing to be understood . 
I was like a man stunned . 
She went on , began to talk of you yes , then she began to talk of you , regretting , as well she might , the loss of such a . 
There she spoke very rationally . 
But she has always done justice to you . 
'He has thrown away , said she , 'such a woman as he will never see again . 
She would have fixed him she would have made him happy for ever . 
My dearest Fanny , I am giving you , I hope , more pleasure than pain by this retrospect of what might have been but what never can be now . 
You do not wish me to be silent ? If you do , give me but a look , a word , and I have done . 
No look or word was given . 
Thank God , said he . 
We were all disposed to wonder , but it seems to have been the merciful appointment of Providence that the heart which knew no guile should not suffer . 
Simple girl ! I shall never forgive her . 
He would have taken no pains to be on terms with Mrs. Rushworth again . 
It would have all ended in a regular standing flirtation , in yearly meetings at Sotherton and Everingham . 
Could you have believed it possible ? But the charm is broken . 
Cruel ! said Fanny , quite cruel . 
At such a moment to give way to gaiety , to speak with lightness , and to you ! Absolute cruelty . 
Cruelty , do you call it ? We differ there . 
No , hers is not a cruel nature . 
I do not consider her as meaning to wound my feelings . 
She was speaking only as she had been used to hear others speak , as she imagined everybody else would speak . 
Hers are not faults of temper . 
Perhaps it is best for me , since it leaves me so little to regret . 
Gladly would I submit to all the increased pain of losing her , rather than have to think of her as I do . 
Did you ? Yes when I left her I told her so . 
How long were you together ? Five and twenty minutes . 
Well , she went on to say that what remained now to be done was to bring about a marriage between them . 
She spoke of it , Fanny , with a steadier voice than I can . 
He was obliged to pause more than once as he continued . 
Fanny he must give up . 
I do not think that even he could now hope to succeed with one of her stamp , and therefore I hope we may find no insuperable difficulty . 
What I advise is , that your father be quiet . 
Do not let him injure his own cause by interference . 
Persuade him to let things take their course . 
If by any officious exertions of his , she is induced to leave Henry's protection , there will be much less chance of his marrying her than if she remain with him . 
I know how he is likely to be influenced . 
Let Sir Thomas trust to his honour and compassion , and it may all end well but if he get his daughter away , it will be destroying the chief hold . 
It was long before he could speak again . 
At last , Now , Fanny , said he , I shall soon have done . 
I have told you the substance of all that she said . 
This is what I said , the purport of it but , as you may imagine , not spoken so collectedly or methodically as I have repeated it to you . 
She was astonished , exceedingly astonished more than astonished . 
I saw her change countenance . 
She would have laughed if she could . 
It was a sort of laugh , as she answered , 'A pretty good lecture , upon my word . 
She tried to speak carelessly , but she was not so careless as she wanted to appear . 
I had gone a few steps , Fanny , when I heard the door open behind me . 
I resisted it was the impulse of the moment to resist , and still walked on . 
And what an acquaintance has it been ! How have I been deceived ! Equally in brother and sister deceived ! I thank you for your patience , Fanny . 
This has been the greatest relief , and now we will have done . 
And such was Fanny's dependence on his words , that for five minutes she thought they had done . 
Then , however , it all came on again , or something very like it , and nothing less than Lady Bertram's rousing thoroughly up could really close such a conversation . 
This was not an agreeable intimation . 
Nature resisted it for a while . 
It would have been a vast deal pleasanter to have had her more disinterested in her attachment but his vanity was not of a strength to fight long against reason . 
Fanny thought exactly the same and they were also quite agreed in their opinion of the lasting effect , the indelible impression , which such a disappointment must make on his mind . 
Fanny's friendship was all that he had to cling to . 
CHAPTER XLVIII Let other pens dwell on guilt and misery . 
My Fanny , indeed , at this very time , I have the satisfaction of knowing , must have been happy in spite of everything . 
She must have been a happy creature in spite of all that she felt , or thought she felt , for the distress of those around her . 
She had sources of delight that must force their way . 
It is true that Edmund was very far from happy himself . 
He was suffering from disappointment and regret , grieving over what was , and wishing for what could never be . 
Sir Thomas , poor Sir Thomas , a parent , and conscious of errors in his own conduct as a parent , was the longest to suffer . 
Julia's match became a less desperate business than he had considered it at first . 
She was humble , and wishing to be forgiven and Mr. Yates , desirous of being really received into the family , was disposed to look up to him and be guided . 
There was comfort also in Tom , who gradually regained his health , without regaining the thoughtlessness and selfishness of his previous habits . 
He was the better for ever for his illness . 
He became what he ought to be useful to his father , steady and quiet , and not living merely for himself . 
After wandering about and sitting under trees with Fanny all the summer evenings , he had so well talked his mind into submission as to be very tolerably cheerful again . 
Here had been grievous mismanagement but , bad as it was , he gradually grew to feel that it had not been the most direful mistake in his plan of education . 
Something must have been wanting within , or time would have worn away much of its ill effect . 
He feared that principle , active principle , had been wanting that they had never been properly taught to govern their inclinations and tempers by that sense of duty which can alone suffice . 
They had been instructed theoretically in their religion , but never required to bring it into daily practice . 
To be distinguished for elegance and accomplishments , the authorised object of their youth , could have had no useful influence that way , no moral effect on the mind . 
Bitterly did he deplore a deficiency which now he could scarcely comprehend to have been possible . 
The high spirit and strong passions of Mrs. Rushworth , especially , were made known to him only in their sad result . 
She was not to be prevailed on to leave Mr. Crawford . 
She had lived with him to be reproached as the ruin of all his happiness in Fanny , and carried away no better consolation in leaving him than that she had divided them . 
She had despised him , and loved another and he had been very much aware that it was so . 
The indignities of stupidity , and the disappointments of selfish passion , can excite little pity . 
His punishment followed his conduct , as did a deeper punishment the deeper guilt of his wife . 
Where she could be placed became a subject of most melancholy and momentous consultation . 
Mrs. Norris , whose attachment seemed to augment with the demerits of her niece , would have had her received at home and countenanced by them all . 
Sir Thomas would not hear of it and Mrs. Norris's anger against Fanny was so much the greater , from considering her residence there as the motive . 
Mrs. Norris's removal from Mansfield was the great supplementary comfort of Sir Thomas's life . 
She was regretted by no one at Mansfield . 
Not even Fanny had tears for aunt Norris , not even when she was gone for ever . 
Her beauty and acquirements had held but a second place . 
She had been always used to think herself a little inferior to Maria . 
Her temper was naturally the easiest of the two her feelings , though quick , were more controllable , and education had not given her so very hurtful a degree of self consequence . 
She had submitted the best to the disappointment in Henry Crawford . 
This had been her motive in going to her cousin's . 
Mr. Yates's convenience had had nothing to do with it . 
She had not eloped with any worse feelings than those of selfish alarm . 
It had appeared to her the only thing to be done . 
Maria's guilt had induced Julia's folly . 
Henry Crawford , ruined by early independence and bad domestic example , indulged in the freaks of a cold blooded vanity a little too long . 
Once it had , by an opening undesigned and unmerited , led him into the way of happiness . 
His affection had already done something . 
Her influence over him had already given him some influence over her . 
Would he have persevered , and uprightly , Fanny must have been his reward , and a reward very voluntarily bestowed , within a reasonable period from Edmund's marrying Mary . 
But he was pressed to stay for Mrs. Fraser's party his staying was made of flattering consequence , and he was to meet Mrs. Rushworth there . 
She loved him there was no withdrawing attentions avowedly dear to her . 
He was entangled by his own vanity , with as little excuse of love as possible , and without the smallest inconstancy of mind towards her cousin . 
To keep Fanny and the Bertrams from a knowledge of what was passing became his first object . 
Secrecy could not have been more desirable for Mrs. Rushworth's credit than he felt it for his own . 
When he returned from Richmond , he would have been glad to see Mrs. Rushworth no more . 
They lived together and when Dr . 
Edmund had greatly the advantage of her in this respect . 
He had not to wait and wish with vacant affections for an object worthy to succeed her in them . 
Her mind , disposition , opinions , and habits wanted no half concealment , no self deception on the present , no reliance on future improvement . 
Even in the midst of his late infatuation , he had acknowledged Fanny's mental superiority . 
But there was happiness elsewhere which no description can reach . 
Let no one presume to give the feelings of a young woman on receiving the assurance of that affection of which she has scarcely allowed herself to entertain a hope . 
Their own inclinations ascertained , there were no difficulties behind , no drawback of poverty or parent . 
It was a match which Sir Thomas's wishes had even forestalled . 
Fanny was indeed the daughter that he wanted . 
His charitable kindness had been rearing a prime comfort for himself . 
His liberality had a rich repayment , and the general goodness of his intentions by her deserved it . 
After settling her at Thornton Lacey with every kind attention to her comfort , the object of almost every day was to see her there , or to get her away from it . 
Selfishly dear as she had long been to Lady Bertram , she could not be parted with willingly by her . 
No happiness of son or niece could make her wish the marriage . 
But it was possible to part with her , because Susan remained to supply her place . 
Susan could never be spared . 
First as a comfort to Fanny , then as an auxiliary , and last as her substitute , she was established at Mansfield , with every appearance of equal permanency . 
Her more fearless disposition and happier nerves made everything easy to her there . 
With so much true merit and true love , and no want of fortune and friends , the happiness of the married cousins must appear as secure as earthly happiness can be . 
Grant , occurred just after they had been married long enough to begin to want an increase of income , and feel their distance from the paternal abode an inconvenience . 
