TO MORROW by Joseph Conrad What was known of Captain Hagberd in the little seaport of Colebrook was not exactly in his favour . 
He did not belong to the place . 
He had come to settle there under circumstances not at all myste rious he used to be very communicative about them at the time but extremely morbid and un reasonable . 
He was possessed of some little money evidently , because he bought a plot of ground , and had a pair of ugly yellow brick cottages run up very cheaply . 
He occupied one of them himself and let the other to Josiah Carvil blind Carvil , the retired boat builder a man of evil repute as a domestic tyrant . 
These cottages had one wall in common , shared in a line of iron railing dividing their front gar dens a wooden fence separated their back gardens . 
Miss Bessie Carvil was allowed , as it were of right , to throw over it the tea cloths , blue rags , or an apron that wanted drying . 
It rots the wood , Bessie my girl , the captain would remark mildly , from his side of the fence , each time he saw her exercising that privilege . 
She was a tall girl the fence was low , and she could spread her elbows on the top . 
It rots the wood , repeated Captain Hagberd . 
It is the only unthrifty , careless habit I know in you . 
Why don't you have a clothes line out in your back yard ? Miss Carvil would say nothing to this she only shook her head negatively . 
After paying for his pur chase with three half pence extracted from the cor ner of a handkerchief which he carried in the cuff of his sleeve , Captain Hagberd went out . 
As soon as the door was shut the barber laughed . 
The old one and the young one will be strolling arm in arm to get shaved in my place presently . 
The tailor shall be set to work , and the barber , and the candlestick maker high old times are coming for Colebrook , they are coming , to be sure . 
It used to be 'next week , now it has come to 'next month , and so on soon it will be next spring , for all I know . 
The boy had been driven away from home , he shouldn't wonder had run away to sea and had never been heard of since . 
Put to rest in Davy Jones's locker this many a day , as likely as not . 
, getting out of a third class smoker as if the devil had been at his heels and the only thing that brought him down was a letter a hoax probably . 
Funny , ain't it ? The old chap had been advertising in the London papers for Harry Hagberd , and offer ing rewards for any sort of likely information . 
And when people only smiled at this he would rub his forehead in a confused sort of way before he slunk off , looking offended . 
After a time the old man abandoned the ac tive search . 
His son had evidently gone away but he settled himself to wait . 
His son had been once at least in Colebrook in preference to his na tive place . 
There must have been some reason for it , he seemed to think , some very powerful induce ment , that would bring him back to Colebrook again . 
Ha , ha , ha ! Why , of course , Colebrook . 
Where else ? That's the only place in the United Kingdom for your long lost sons . 
So he sold up his old home in Colchester , and down he comes here . 
Well , it's a craze , like any other . 
Wouldn't catch me going crazy over any of my youngsters clear ing out . 
I've got eight of them at home . 
The barber was showing off his strength of mind in the midst of a laughter that shook the tap room . 
Strange , though , that sort of thing , he would confess , with the frankness of a superior intelli gence , seemed to be catching . 
It was a strong craze . 
He could remember the time when the whole town was full of it . 
But he had his hopes of the old chap yet . 
He would cure him by a course of judicious chaffing . 
He was watching the progress of the treatment . 
In other matters he was quite rational , so this , too , was bound to come . 
Such was the barber's firm opin ion . 
Captain Hagberd's movements showed no infirmity he walked stiffly in his suit of canvas , a quaint and remarkable fig ure only his eyes wandered more furtively perhaps than of yore . 
He was unwilling now to talk with the townsfolk . 
He had earned for himself the reputation of an awful skinflint , of a miser in the matter of living . 
He mumbled regretfully in the shops , bought in ferior scraps of meat after long hesitations and discouraged all allusions to his costume . 
It was as the barber had foretold . 
In their intimacy of back yard and front gar den he talked with her paternally , reasonably , and dogmatically , with a touch of arbitrariness . 
They met on the ground of unreserved confidence , which was authenticated by an affectionate wink now and then . 
Miss Carvil had come to look forward rather to these winks . 
At first they had discomposed her the poor fellow was mad . 
Afterwards she had learned to laugh at them there was no harm in him . 
Now she was aware of an unacknowledged , pleasurable , incredulous emotion , expressed by a faint blush . 
A handsome , hale , upright , ca pable man , with a white beard . 
You did not think of his age . 
His son , he affirmed , had resembled him amazingly from his earliest babyhood . 
Harry would be one and thirty next July , he declared . 
Proper age to get married with a nice , sensible girl that could appreciate a good home . 
He was a very high spirited boy . 
High spirited husbands were the easiest to manage . 
These mean , soft chaps , that you would think butter wouldn't melt in their mouths , were the ones to make a wom an thoroughly miserable . 
And there was nothing like a home a fireside a good roof no turning out of your warm bed in all sorts of weather . 
Eh , my dear ? Captain Hagberd had been one of those sailors that pursue their calling within sight of land . 
One of the many children of a bankrupt farmer , he had been apprenticed hurriedly to a coasting skipper , and had remained on the coast all his sea life . 
People did not know what they let their boys in for when they let them go to sea , he expounded to Bessie . 
As soon make convicts of them at once . 
He did not believe you ever got used to it . 
The weariness of such a life got worse as you got older . 
he threw up his command of an East coast collier with a feeling as though he had escaped from the galleys . 
After all these years he might have counted on the fingers of his two hands all the days he had been out of sight of Eng land . 
He had never known what it was to be out of soundings . 
I have never been further than eighty fathoms from the land , was one of his boasts . 
Bessie Carvil heard all these things . 
In front of their cottage grew an under sized ash and on sum mer afternoons she would bring out a chair on the grass plot and sit down with her sewing . 
Captain Hagberd , in his canvas suit , leaned on a spade . 
He dug every day in his front plot . 
He turned it over and over several times every year , but was not go ing to plant anything just at present . 
To Bessie Carvil he would state more explicitly Not till our Harry comes home to morrow . 
And she had heard this formula of hope so often that it only awakened the vaguest pity in her heart for that hopeful old man . 
Everything was put off in that way , and every thing was being prepared likewise for to morrow . 
There was a boxful of packets of various flower seeds to choose from , for the front garden . 
He will doubtless let you have your say about that , my dear , Captain Hagberd intimated to her across the railing . 
Miss Bessie's head remained bowed over her work . 
She had heard all this so many times . 
But now and then she would rise , lay down her sewing , and come slowly to the fence . 
There was a charm in these gentle ravings . 
He was determined that his son should not go away again for the want of a home all ready for him . 
He had been filling the other cottage with all sorts of furniture . 
She im agined it all new , fresh with varnish , piled up as in a warehouse . 
There would be tables wrapped up in sacking rolls of carpets thick and vertical like fragments of columns , the gleam of white mar ble tops in the dimness of the drawn blinds . 
Cap tain Hagberd always described his purchases to her , carefully , as to a person having a legitimate interest in them . 
The overgrown yard of his cot tage could be laid over with concrete . 
We may just as well do away with the fence . 
You could have your drying line out , quite clear of your flowers . 
He winked , and she would blush faintly . 
This madness that had entered her life through the kind impulses of her heart had reasonable de tails . 
What if some day his son returned ? But she could not even be quite sure that he ever had a son and if he existed anywhere he had been too long away . 
When Captain Hagberd got excited in his talk she would steady him by a pretence of belief , laughing a little to salve her conscience . 
Only once she had tried pityingly to throw some doubt on that hope doomed to disappointment , but the effect of her attempt had scared her very much . 
All at once over that man's face there came an ex pression of horror and incredulity , as though he had seen a crack open out in the firmament . 
On that occasion the violence of the emotion was followed by a most paternal and complacent re covery . 
Don't alarm yourself , my dear , he said a lit tle cunningly the sea can't keep him . 
He does not belong to it . 
None of us Hagberds ever did belong to it . 
Look at me I didn't get drowned . 
Moreover , he isn't a sailor at all and if he is not a sailor he's bound to come back . 
There's nothing to prevent him coming back . 
His eyes began to wander . 
She never tried again , for fear the man should go out of his mind on the spot . 
She seemed the only sensible person in the town and he would congratulate himself frankly before her face on having secured such a level headed wife for his son . 
The rest of the town , he confided to her once , in a fit of temper , was certainly queer . 
The way they looked at you the way they talked to you ! He had never got on with any one in the place . 
He would not have left his own country if it had not been clear that his son had taken a fancy to Colebrook . 
She humoured him in silence , listening patiently by the fence crocheting with downcast eyes . 
Blushes came with difficulty on her dead white complexion , under the negligently twisted opu lence of mahogany coloured hair . 
Her father was frankly carroty . 
She had a full figure a tired , unrefreshed face . 
When Captain Hagberd vaunted the necessity and propriety of a home and the delights of one's own fireside , she smiled a little , with her lips only . 
Her home delights had been confined to the nursing of her father during the ten best years of her life . 
A bestial roaring coming out of an upstairs win dow would interrupt their talk . 
She would begin at once to roll up her crochet work or fold her sew ing , without the slightest sign of haste . 
She would go in slowly at the front door , and a moment afterwards there would fall a profound silence . 
Presently she would re appear , leading by the hand a man , gross and un wieldy like a hippopotamus , with a bad tempered , surly face . 
He was a widowed boat builder , whom blindness had overtaken years before in the full flush of busi ness . 
He behaved to his daughter as if she had been responsible for its incurable character . 
He thanked God for it , in a fiendish tone as though he were cursing . 
Captain Hagberd had been so unfavourably im pressed by his tenant , that once he told Miss Bes sie , He is a very extravagant fellow , my dear . 
She was knitting that day , finishing a pair of socks for her father , who expected her to keep up the supply dutifully . 
She hated knitting , and , as she was just at the heel part , she had to keep her eyes on her needles . 
Of course it isn't as if he had a son to provide for , Captain Hagberd went on a little vacantly . 
Girls , of course , don't require so much h'm h'm . 
They don't run away from home , my dear . 
No , said Miss Bessie , quietly . 
Captain Hagberd , amongst the mounds of turned up earth , chuckled . 
With his maritime rig , his weather beaten face , his beard of Father Nep tune , he resembled a deposed sea god who had ex changed the trident for the spade . 
And he must look upon you as already pro vided for , in a manner . 
That's the best of it with the girls . 
Miss Bessie , absorbed in her knitting , coloured faintly . 
Bessie ! my hat ! old Carvil bellowed out sud denly . 
He had been sitting under the tree mute and motionless , like an idol of some remarkably monstrous superstition . 
He never opened his mouth but to howl for her , at her , sometimes about her and then he did not moderate the terms of his abuse . 
He was one of the few blind people who smoke . 
When he felt the hat being put on his head he stopped his noise at once . 
Then he rose , and they passed to gether through the gate . 
He weighed heavily on her arm . 
During their slow , toilful walks she appeared to be dragging with her for a penance the burden of that infirm bulk . 
, and for a long , long time they would remain in view , ascending imperceptibly the flight of wooden steps that led to the top of the sea wall . 
It ran on from east to west , shutting out the Channel like a neglected railway embankment , on which no train had ever rolled within memory of man . 
Groups of sturdy fishermen would emerge upon the sky , walk along for a bit , and sink without haste . 
Captain Hagberd , pot tering aimlessly about his cottages , would raise his head to see how they got on in their promenade . 
He advertised still in the Sunday papers for Harry Hagberd . 
These sheets were read in for eign parts to the end of the world , he informed Bes sie . 
At the same time he seemed to think that his son was in England so near to Colebrook that he would of course turn up to morrow . 
She declared she did not know what he lived on . 
Her argumentation would puzzle him and cast him down for a time . 
They all do it , he pointed out . 
There was a whole column devoted to appeals after missing relatives . 
He would bring the news paper to show her . 
He and his wife had advertised for years only she was an impatient woman . 
You are not an impatient woman , my dear . 
I've no patience with you sometimes , she would say . 
What more could he want ? Colebrook was the place , and there was no need to ask for more . 
He would dash his spade into the ground and walk to and fro before it . 
Miss Bessie called it his tan trums . 
She shook her finger at him . 
For all their intimacy , which had lasted some years now , they had never talked without a fence or a railing between them . 
He described to her all the splendours accumulated for the setting up of their housekeeping , but had never invited her to an inspection . 
No human eye was to behold them till Harry had his first look . 
Then , coming out , he would remark apologetically , It was only a small kettle , my dear . 
Every Monday she paid him his rent over the railings . 
He clutched the shillings greedily . 
He grudged every penny he had to spend on his main tenance , and when he left her to make his purchases his bearing changed as soon as he got into the street . 
Away from the sanction of her pity , he felt himself exposed without defence . 
He brushed the walls with his shoulder . 
He mistrusted the queer ness of the people yet , by then , even the town children had left off calling after him , and the tradesmen served him without a word . 
The slight est allusion to his clothing had the power to puzzle and frighten especially , as if it were something utterly unwarranted and incomprehensible . 
In the autumn , the driving rain drummed on his sailcloth suit saturated almost to the stiffness of sheet iron , with its surface flowing with water . 
The ground was so much dug up all over , that as the season advanced it turned to a quagmire . 
When it froze hard , he was disconso late . 
Why don't that extravagant fellow get you a servant ? he asked impatiently one mild after noon . 
She had thrown something over her head to run out for a while . 
I don't know , said the pale Bessie , wearily , staring away with her heavy lidded , grey , and un expectant glance . 
There were always smudgy shadows under her eyes , and she did not seem able to see any change or any end to her life . 
You wait till you get married , my dear , said her only friend , drawing closer to the fence . 
Harry will get you one . 
His hopeful craze seemed to mock her own want of hope with so bitter an aptness that in her ner vous irritation she could have screamed at him out right . 
He flung his head back and laughed his throaty affected cackle of anger . 
I'll soon Bessie ! Bessie ! Bessie ! howled old Carvil in side . 
Bessie ! my pipe ! That fat blind man had given himself up to a very lust of laziness . 
He would not lift his hand to reach for the things she took care to leave at his very elbow . 
, without calling her to his side and hanging all his atrocious weight on her shoulder . 
He would not eat one single mouthful of food without her close attendance . 
He had made himself helpless beyond his affliction , to enslave her better . 
She stood still for a moment , setting her teeth in the dusk , then turned and walked slowly indoors . 
Captain Hagberd went back to his spade . 
The shouting in Carvil's cottage stopped , and after a while the window of the parlour downstairs was lit up . 
A cold white light lin gered in the western sky . 
The man leaned over the gate in an interested manner . 
You must be Captain Hagberd , he said , with easy assurance . 
The old man spun round , pulling out his spade , startled by the strange voice . 
Yes , I am , he answered nervously . 
He's coming home to morrow . 
The devil he is ! The stranger marvelled greatly , and then went on , with only a slight change of tone You've grown a beard like Father Christmas himself . 
Captain Hagberd drew a little nearer , and leaned forward over his spade . 
Go your way , he said , resentfully and timidly at the same time , because he was always afraid of being laughed at . 
Every mental state , even madness , has its equi librium based upon self esteem . 
Its disturbance causes unhappiness and Captain Hagberd lived amongst a scheme of settled notions which it pained him to feel disturbed by people's grins . 
Yes , peo ple's grins were awful . 
They hinted at something wrong but what ? He could not tell and that stranger was obviously grinning had come on purpose to grin . 
It was bad enough on the streets , but he had never before been outraged like this . 
Suppose you let me come in . 
YOU come in ! murmured old Hagberd , with inexpressible horror . 
I could give you some real information about your son the very latest tip , if you care to hear . 
He began to pace wildly to and fro , he shouldered his spade , he ges ticulated with his other arm . 
Here's a fellow a grinning fellow , who says there's something wrong . 
I've got more information than you're aware of . 
I've all the information I want . 
I've had it for years for years for years enough to last me till to morrow . 
had given her such an emotion that she could not utter a sound . 
Captain Hagberd seemed to be trying to find his way out of a cage . 
His feet squelched in the pud dles left by his industry . 
He stumbled in the holes of the ruined grass plot . 
He ran blindly against the fence . 
Here , steady a bit ! said the man at the gate , gravely stretching his arm over and catching him by the sleeve . 
Somebody's been trying to get at you . 
Hallo ! what's this rig you've got on ? Storm canvas , by George ! He had a big laugh . 
Well , you ARE a character ! Captain Hagberd jerked himself free , and began to back away shrinkingly . 
For the present , he muttered , in a crestfallen tone . 
What's the matter with him ? The stranger addressed Bessie with the utmost familiarity , in a deliberate , explanatory tone . 
I didn't want to startle the old man . 
He lowered his voice as though he had known her for years . 
I dropped into a barber's on my way , to get a twopenny shave , and they told me there he was something of a character . 
The old man has been a character all his life . 
I didn't want to upset him , the man said , after a short silence . 
What's the meaning of all this ? He isn't quite crazy . 
He has been worrying a long time about his lost son , said Bessie , in a low , apologetic tone . 
Well , I am his son . 
Harry ! she cried and was profoundly si lent . 
Know my name ? Friends with the old man , eh ? He's our landlord , Bessie faltered out , catch ing hold of the iron railing . 
Owns both them rabbit hutches , does he ? commented young Hagberd , scornfully just the thing he would be proud of . 
Can you tell me who's that chap coming to morrow ? You must know something of it . 
I tell you , it's a swindle on the old man nothing else . 
She did not answer , helpless before an insur mountable difficulty , appalled before the necessity , the impossibility and the dread of an explanation in which she and madness seemed involved together . 
Oh I am so sorry , she murmured . 
What's the matter ? he said , with serenity . 
You needn't be afraid of upsetting me . 
It's the other fellow that'll be upset when he least expects it . 
I don't care a hang but there will be some fun when he shows his mug to morrow . 
I don't care THAT for the old man's pieces , but right is right . 
You shall see me put a head on that coon whoever he is ! He had come nearer , and towered above her on the other side of the railings . 
He glanced at her hands . 
He fancied she was trembling , and it oc curred to him that she had her part perhaps in that little game that was to be sprung on his old man to morrow . 
He had come just in time to spoil their sport . 
He was entertained by the idea scornful of the baffled plot . 
But all his life he had been full of indulgence for all sorts of women's tricks . 
She really was trembling very much her wrap had slipped off her head . 
Poor devil ! he thought . 
Never mind about that chap . 
I daresay he'll change his mind before to morrow . 
But what about me ? I can't loaf about the gate til the morn ing . 
She burst out It is YOU you yourself that he's waiting for . 
It is YOU who come to morrow . 
Oh ! It's me ! blankly , and they seemed to become breathless together . 
Ap parently he was pondering over what he had heard then , without irritation , but evidently perplexed , he said I don't understand . 
I hadn't written or anything . 
It's my chum who saw the paper and told me this very morning . 
Eh ? what ? He bent his ear she whispered rapidly , and he listened for a while , muttering the words yes and I see at times . 
Then , But why won't to day do ? he queried at last . 
You didn't understand me ! she exclaimed , impatiently . 
The clear streak of light under the clouds died out in the west . 
He squared his shoulders the broad brimmed shadow of a hat sat cavalierly on his head . 
Awk ward this , eh ? he appealed to her . 
To morrow ? Well , well ! Never heard tell of anything like this . 
It's all to morrow , then , without any sort of to day , as far as I can see . 
She remained still and mute . 
And you have been encouraging this funny notion , he said . 
Why didn't you ? What for should I ? she defended herself . 
It would only have made him miserable . 
He would have gone out of his mind . 
His mind ! he muttered , and heard a short nervous laugh from her . 
Where was the harm ? Was I to quarrel with the poor old man ? It was easier to half believe it myself . 
Aye , aye , he meditated , intelligently . 
I suppose the old chap got around you somehow with his soft talk . 
Her hands moved up in the dark nervously . 
And it might have been true . 
This is the to morrow we have been waiting for . 
She drew a breath , and he said , good humour edly Aye , with the door shut . 
And you think he could be brought round to recognise me . 
I have been in this place , though , once before , and for more than a week . 
That lark did not come off , though . 
We had to clear out and none too soon . 
But this time I've a chum waiting for me in London , and besides . 
Bessie Carvil was breathing quickly . 
What if I tried a knock at the door ? he sug gested . 
He isn't frisky is he ? I would be afraid to lay hold of him . 
The chaps are always telling me I don't know my own strength . 
He's the most harmless creature that ever lived , she interrupted . 
You wouldn't say so if you had seen him chas ing me upstairs with a hard leather strap , he said I haven't forgotten it in sixteen years . 
She got warm from head to foot under another soft , subdued laugh . 
At the rat tat tat of the knocker her heart flew into her mouth . 
Hey , dad ! Let me in . 
I am Harry , I am . 
Straight ! Come back home a day too soon . 
One of the windows upstairs ran up . 
A grinning , information fellow , said the voice of old Hagberd , up in the darkness . 
Don't you have anything to do with him . 
It will spoil every thing . 
She heard Harry Hagberd say , Hallo , dad , then a clanging clatter . 
The window rumbled down , and he stood before her again . 
It's just like old times . 
Nearly walloped the life out of me to stop me going away , and now I come back he throws a confounded shovel at my head to keep me out . 
I wouldn't care , he began , only I spent my last shillings on the railway fare and my last two pence on a shave out of respect for the old man . 
Are you really Harry Hagberd ? she asked . 
Can you prove it ? Can I prove it ? Can any one else prove it ? he said jovially . 
I am more like Harry Hagberd than any man alive and I can prove it to you in a minute , if you will let me step inside your gate . 
Come in , she said . 
He entered then the front garden of the Carvils . 
His tall shadow strode with a swagger she turned her back on the window and waited , watching the shape , of which the footfalls seemed the most mate rial part . 
The light fell on a tilted hat a power ful shoulder , that seemed to cleave the darkness on a leg stepping out . 
He swung about and stood still , facing the illuminated parlour window at her back , turning his head from side to side , laughing softly to himself . 
Just fancy , for a minute , the old man's beard stuck on to my chin . 
I was the very spit of him from a boy . 
It's true , she murmured to herself . 
And that's about as far as it goes . 
He was al ways one of your domestic characters . 
Why , I re member how he used to go about looking very sick for three days before he had to leave home on one of his trips to South Shields for coal . 
He had a standing charter from the gas works . 
You would think he was off on a whaling cruise three years and a tail . 
Ha , ha ! Not a bit of it . 
Ten days on the outside . 
The Skimmer of the Seas was a smart craft . 
Fine name , wasn't it ? Mother's uncle owned her . 
He interrupted himself , and in a lowered voice , Did he ever tell you what mother died of ? he asked . 
Yes , said Miss Bessie , bitterly from impa tience . 
He made no sound for a while then brusquely They were so afraid I would turn out badly that they fairly drove me away . 
Mother nagged at me for being idle , and the old man said he would cut my soul out of my body rather than let me go to sea . 
Well , it looked as if he would do it too so I went . 
It looks to me sometimes as if I had been born to them by a mistake in that other hutch of a house . 
Where ought you to have been born by rights ? Bessie Carvil interrupted him , defiantly . 
In the open , upon a beach , on a windy night , he said , quick as lightning . 
It's for me , she said , with indifference . 
He stepped aside , out of the streak of light . 
Your husband ? he inquired , with the tone of a man accustomed to unlawful trysts . 
Fine voice for a ship's deck in a thundering squall . 
You seem a fine girl , Miss Bessie , dear , he said at once . 
She turned her face away . 
Oh , I say , what's up ? Who's murdering him ? He wants his tea . 
She faced him , still and tall , with averted head , with her hands hanging clasped before her . 
Her wrap had slipped down to her elbows . 
You'll have all the town coming out presently . 
I'll wait here a bit . 
Her wrap fell to the ground , and he stooped to pick it up she had vanished . 
The shouting stopped the blind ran down . 
He lost himself in thinking how awkward it was . 
Father mad no getting into the house . 
No money to get back a hungry chum in London who would begin to think he had been given the go by . 
He turned cold at the thought . 
He stamped his feet on the sod den grass . 
What are you ? a sailor ? said an agitated voice . 
She had flitted out , a shadow herself , attracted by the reckless shadow waiting under the wall of her home . 
Enough of a sailor to be worth my salt before the mast . 
Came home that way this time . 
Where do you come from ? she asked . 
Right away from a jolly good spree , he said , by the London train see ? Ough ! I hate being shut up in a train . 
I don't mind a house so much . 
Ah , she said that's lucky . 
Because in a house you can at any time open the blamed door and walk away straight before you . 
And never come back ? Not for sixteen years at least , he laughed . 
To a rabbit hutch , and get a confounded old shovel . 
A ship is not so very big , she taunted . 
No , but the sea is great . 
And then , why , a ship's a ship . 
You love her and leave her and a voyage isn't a marriage . 
He quoted the sailor's saying lightly . 
It is not a marriage , she whispered . 
I never took a false name , and I've never yet told a lie to a woman . 
What lie ? Why , THE lie . 
Take me or leave me , I say and if you take me , then it is . 
He hummed a snatch very low , leaning against the wall . 
Oh , ho , ho Rio ! And fare thee well , My bonnie young girl , We're bound to Rio Grande Capstan song , he explained . 
You are cold , he said . 
Here's that affair of yours I picked up . 
She felt his hands about her , wrapping her closely . 
Hold the ends to gether in front , he commanded . 
What did you come here for ? she asked , re pressing a shudder . 
Five quid , he answered , promptly . 
We let our spree go on a little too long and got hard up . 
You've been drinking ? she said . 
Blind three days on purpose . 
I am not given that way don't you think . 
There's nothing and nobody that can get over me unless I like . 
I can be as steady as a rock . 
My chum sees the paper this morning , and says he to me 'Go on , Harry loving parent . 
So we scraped all our pockets for the fare . 
Devil of a lark ! You have a hard heart , I am afraid , she sighed . 
What for ? For running away ? Why ! he wanted to make a lawyer's clerk of me just to please himself . 
Master in his own house and my poor mother egged him on for my good , I sup pose . 
Well , then so long and I went . 
No , I tell you the day I cleared out , I was all black and blue from his great fondness for me . 
Ah ! he was always a bit of a character . 
Look at that shovel now . 
Off his chump ? Not much . 
That's just exactly like my dad . 
He wants me here just to have somebody to order about . 
However , we two were hard up and what's five quid to him once in sixteen hard years ? Oh , but I am sorry for you . 
Did you never want to come back home ? Be a lawyer's clerk and rot here in some such place as this ? he cried in contempt . 
And where else is it that you hope to die ? In the bush somewhere in the sea on a blamed mountain top for choice . 
At home ? Yes ! the world's my home but I expect I'll die in a hospital some day . 
What of that ? Any place is good enough , as long as I've lived and I've been every thing you can think of almost but a tailor or a soldier . 
I've been a boundary rider I've sheared sheep and humped my swag and harpooned a whale . 
I've rigged ships , and prospected for gold , and skinned dead bullocks , and turned my back on more money than the old man would have scraped in his whole life . 
Ha , ha ! He overwhelmed her . 
She pulled herself to gether and managed to utter , Time to rest now . 
He straightened himself up , away from the wall , and in a severe voice said , Time to go . 
But he did not move . 
He leaned back again , and hummed thoughtfully a bar or two of an out landish tune . 
She felt as if she were about to cry . 
That's another of your cruel songs , she said . 
Learned it in Mexico in Sonora . 
It is the song of the Gambucinos . 
You don't know ? The song of restless men . 
Nothing could hold them in one place not even a woman . 
You used to meet one of them now and again , in the old days , on the edge of the gold country , away north there beyond the Rio Gila . 
A prospecting engineer in Mazatlan took me along with him to help look after the waggons . 
A sailor's a handy chap to have about you anyhow . 
It's all a desert cracks in the earth that you can't see the bottom of and mountains sheer rocks standing up high like walls and church spires , only a hundred times bigger . 
The valleys are full of boulders and black stones . 
There's not a blade of grass to see and the sun sets more red over that country than I have seen it anywhere blood red and angry . 
You do not want to go back there again ? she stammered out . 
No. That's the blamed gold country . 
It gave me the shivers sometimes to look at it and we were a big lot of men together , mind but these Gambucinos wandered alone . 
They knew that country before anybody had ever heard of it . 
They had a sort of gift for prospect ing , and the fever of it was on them too and they did not seem to want the gold very much . 
They would find some rich spot , and then turn their backs on it pick up perhaps a little enough for a spree and then be off again , looking for more . 
They never stopped long where there were houses they had no wife , no chick , no home , never a chum . 
You couldn't be friends with a Gambucino they were too restless here to day , and gone , God knows where , to morrow . 
They told no one of their finds , and there has never been a Gambucino well off . 
That's what the song says . 
It's all about a pretty girl that tried hard to keep hold of a Gambucino lover , so that he should bring her lots of gold . 
No fear ! Off he went , and she never saw him again . 
What became of her ? she breathed out . 
Cried a bit , I daresay . 
They were the fellows kiss and go . 
But it's the looking for a thing a something . 
Sometimes I think I am a sort of Gambucino myself . 
No woman can hold you , then , she began in a brazen voice , which quavered suddenly before the end . 
No longer than a week , he joked , playing upon her very heartstrings with the gay , tender note of his laugh and yet I am fond of them all . 
Anything for a woman of the right sort . 
The scrapes they got me into , and the scrapes they got me out of ! I love them at first sight . 
I've fallen in love with you already , Miss Bessie's your name eh ? She backed away a little , and with a trembling laugh You haven't seen my face yet . 
A little pale it suits some . 
But you are a fine figure of a girl , Miss Bessie . 
She was all in a flutter . 
Nobody had ever said so much to her before . 
I am getting middling hungry , though . 
Had no breakfast to day . 
Couldn't you scare up some bread from that tea for me , or She was gone already . 
He had been on the point of asking her to let him come inside . 
I asked as a friend . 
My dad is rich , you know . 
He starves himself for your sake . 
And I have starved for his whim , he said , tak ing up another piece . 
All he has in the world is for you , she pleaded . 
Yes , if I come here to sit on it like a dam' toad in a hole . 
Thank you and what about the shovel , eh ? He always had a queer way of showing his love . 
I could bring him round in a week , she sug gested , timidly . 
He was too hungry to answer her and , holding the plate submissively to his hand , she began to whisper up to him in a quick , panting voice . 
He listened , amazed , eating slower and slower , till at last his jaws stopped altogether . 
That's his game , is it ? he said , in a rising tone of scathing contempt . 
An ungovernable movement of his arm sent the plate flying out of her fingers . 
He shot out a violent curse . 
She shrank from him , putting her hand against the wall . 
He expects ! Expects ME for his rotten money ! . 
Who wants his home ? Mad not he ! Don't you think . 
He wants his own way . 
He wanted to turn me into a miserable lawyer's clerk , and now he wants to make of me a blamed tame rabbit in a cage . 
Of me ! Of me ! His subdued angry laugh frightened her now . 
The whole world ain't a bit too big for me to spread my elbows in , I can tell you what's your name Bessie let alone a dam' parlour in a hutch . 
He bit his thumb with rage at the mere idea . 
A grinning , information fellow , pronounced old Hagberd dogmatically , in measured tones . 
And the sound of his voice seemed to Bessie to make the night itself mad to pour insanity and dis aster on the earth . 
Now I know what's wrong with the people here , my dear . 
Why , of course ! With this mad chap going about . 
Don't you have anything to do with him , Bessie . 
Bessie , I say ! They stood as if dumb . 
The old man fidgeted and mumbled to himself at the window . 
Suddenly he cried , piercingly Bessie I see you . 
She made a movement as if to run away , but stopped and raised her hands to her temples . 
Young Hagberd , shadowy and big , stirred no more than a man of bronze . 
Over their heads the crazy night whimpered and scolded in an old man's voice . 
Send him away , my dear . 
He's only a vaga bond . 
What you want is a good home of your own . 
That chap has no home he's not like Harry . 
Harry is coming to morrow . 
Do you hear ? One day more , he babbled more ex citedly never you fear Harry shall marry you . 
His voice rose very shrill and mad against the regular deep soughing of the swell coiling heavily about the outer face of the sea wall . 
I shall make him , or if not he swore a great oath I'll cut him off with a shilling to morrow , and leave everything to you . 
Harry drew a deep breath , and took one step toward Bessie . 
So it's you the girl , he said , in a lowered voice . 
She had not moved , and she re mained half turned away from him , pressing her head in the palms of her hands . 
My word ! he continued , with an invisible half smile on his lips . 
I have a great mind to stop . 
Her elbows were trembling violently . 
For a week , he finished without a pause . 
She clapped her hands to her face . 
He came up quite close , and took hold of her wrists gently . 
She felt his breath on her ear . 
It's a scrape I am in this , and it is you that must see me through . 
He was trying to uncover her face . 
He let her go then , and stepping back a little , Have you got any money ? he asked . 
I must be off now . 
Here it is ! she whispered . 
Oh , go away ! go away for God's sake ! If I had more more I would give it all to forget to make you for get . 
No fear ! I haven't forgotten a single one of you in the world . 
Some gave me more than money but I am a beggar now and you women always had to get me out of my scrapes . 
He swaggered up to the parlour window , and in the dim light filtering through the blind , looked at the coin lying in his palm . 
It was a half sovereign . 
He slipped it into his pocket . 
She stood a little on one side , with her head drooping , as if wounded with her arms hanging passive by her side , as if dead . 
You can't buy me in , he said , and you can't buy yourself out . 
He set his hat firmly with a little tap , and next moment she felt herself lifted up in the powerful embrace of his arms . 
Her feet lost the ground her head hung back he showered kisses on her face with a silent and over mastering ardour , as if in haste to get at her very soul . 
It was as if the sea , breaking down the wall pro tecting all the homes of the town , had sent a wave over her head . 
It passed on she staggered back wards , with her shoulders against the wall , ex hausted , as if she had been stranded there after a storm and a shipwreck . 
She opened her eyes after awhile and listening to the firm , leisurely footsteps going away with their conquest , began to gather her skirts , staring all the time before her . 
Suddenly she darted through the open gate into the dark and deserted street . 
Presently every sound grew fainter , as though she were slowly turning into stone . 
A fear of this awful silence came to her worse than the fear of death . 
She called upon her ebbing strength for the final appeal Harry ! Not even the dying echo of a footstep . 
The thundering of the surf , the voice of the restless sea itself , seemed stopped . 
Captain Hagberd , inside his dark house , had kept on the alert . 
Is he gone yet that information fellow ? Do you hear him about , my dear ? She burst into tears . 
No ! no ! no ! I don't hear him any more , she sobbed . 
He began to chuckle up there triumphantly . 
Now we shall be all right . 
Don't you be impatient , my dear . 
It had no lofty portal , no terrific inscription of forfeited hopes she did not understand wherein she had sinned . 
Captain Hagberd had gradually worked himself into a state of noisy happiness up there . 
Go in ! Keep quiet ! she turned upon him tearfully , from the doorstep below . 
He rebelled against her authority in his great joy at having got rid at last of that something wrong . 
