In editing the electronic text I have put footnotes at the bottom of the paragraph to which they refer . 
This sometimes means that I have moved the text of the footnote to maintain proximity to the text to which it refers . 
Spellings as in the original are retained only obvious typographical errors have been corrected . 
There are few , to whom her writings could in any case have given pleasure , that would have wished that this fragment should have been suppressed , because it is a fragment . 
The purpose and structure of the following work , had long formed a favourite subject of meditation with its author , and she judged them capable of producing an important effect . 
The composition had been in progress for a period of twelve months . 
She was anxious to do justice to her conception , and recommenced and revised the manuscript several different times . 
A more copious extract of this letter is subjoined to the author's preface . 
The part communicated consisted of the first fourteen chapters . 
In writing this novel , I have rather endeavoured to pourtray passions than manners . 
In the invention of the story , this view restrained my fancy and the history ought rather to be considered , as of woman , than of an individual . 
The sentiments I have embodied . 
In many works of this species , the hero is allowed to be mortal , and to become wise and virtuous as well as happy , by a train of events and circumstances . 
The heroines , on the contrary , are to be born immaculate , and to act like goddesses of wisdom , just come forth highly finished Minervas from the head of Jove . 
The following is an extract of a letter from the author to a friend , to whom she communicated her manuscript . 
Love , in which the imagination mingles its bewitching colouring , must be fostered by delicacy . 
I should despise , or rather call her an ordinary woman , who could endure such a husband as I have sketched . 
to be the peculiar Wrongs of Woman , because they degrade the mind . 
This is what I have in view and to show the wrongs of different classes of women , equally oppressive , though , from the difference of education , necessarily various . 
She could not have imagined , that , in all the fermentation of civilized depravity , a similar plot could have entered a human mind . 
She had been stunned by an unexpected blow yet life , however joyless , was not to be indolently resigned , or misery endured without exertion , and proudly termed patience . 
She had hitherto meditated only to point the dart of anguish , and suppressed the heart heavings of indignant nature merely by the force of contempt . 
Maria contemplated this scene she knew not how long or rather gazed on the walls , and pondered on her situation . 
I have had many ladies under my care , who have resolved to starve themselves but , soon or late , they gave up their intent , as they recovered their senses . 
Do you really think me mad ? asked Maria , meeting the searching glance of her eye . 
But what does that prove ? Only that you must be the more carefully watched , for appearing at times so reasonable . 
You have not touched a morsel since you entered the house . 
Could any thing but madness produce such a disgust for food ? Yes , grief you would not ask the question if you knew what it was . 
Doubt gathered still thicker on the brow of her guard , as she attempted to convict her of mistake . 
Have patience ! exclaimed Maria , with a solemnity that inspired awe . 
Indulged sorrow , she perceived , must blunt or sharpen the faculties to the two opposite extremes producing stupidity , the moping melancholy of indolence or the restless activity of a disturbed imagination . 
The lamp of life seemed to be spending itself to chase the vapours of a dungeon which no art could dissipate . 
Maria's conversation had amused and interested her , and the natural consequence was a desire , scarcely observed by herself , of obtaining the esteem of a person she admired . 
But of her child , debilitated by the grief with which its mother had been assailed before it saw the light , she could not think without an impatient struggle . 
In proportion as other expectations were torn from her , this tender one had been fondly clung to , and knit into her heart . 
They might perhaps instruct her daughter , and shield her from the misery , the tyranny , her mother knew not how to avoid . 
This thought gave life to her diction , her soul flowed into it , and she soon found the task of recollecting almost obliterated impressions very interesting . 
She lived again in the revived emotions of youth , and forgot her present in the retrospect of sorrows that had assumed an unalterable character . 
Thus degraded , was she let loose on the world and virtue , never nurtured by affection , assumed the stern aspect of selfish independence . 
This general view of her life , Maria gathered from her exclamations and dry remarks . 
Jemima's countenance , and dark hints , seemed to say , You are an extraordinary woman but let me consider , this may only be one of your lucid intervals . 
Nay , the very energy of Maria's character , made her suspect that the extraordinary animation she perceived might be the effect of madness . 
It is not over the decaying productions of the mind , embodied with the happiest art , we grieve most bitterly . 
Maria took up the books with emotion . 
Dryden's Fables , Milton's Paradise Lost , with several modern productions , composed the collection . 
It was a mine of treasure . 
These remarks were written with a degree of generous warmth , when alluding to the enslaved state of the labouring majority , perfectly in unison with Maria's mode of thinking . 
She read them over and over again and fancy , treacherous fancy , began to sketch a character , congenial with her own , from these shadowy outlines . 
Was he mad ? She reperused the marginal notes , and they seemed the production of an animated , but not of a disturbed imagination . 
Maria had often thought , when disciplining her wayward heart , that to charm , was to be virtuous . 
Maria , in the course of the ensuing day , returned some of the books , with the hope of getting others and more marginal notes . 
Did you ever see the unfortunate being to whom these books belong ? asked Maria , when Jemima brought her slipper . 
He sometimes walks out , between five and six , before the family is stirring , in the morning , with two keepers but even then his hands are confined . 
What ! is he so unruly ? enquired Maria , with an accent of disappointment . 
No , not that I perceive , replied Jemima but he has an untamed look , a vehemence of eye , that excites apprehension . 
Were his hands free , he looks as if he could soon manage both his guards yet he appears tranquil . 
If he be so strong , he must be young , observed Maria . 
Three or four and thirty , I suppose but there is no judging of a person in his situation . 
Are you sure that he is mad ? interrupted Maria with eagerness . 
Jemima quitted the room , without replying . 
No , no , he certainly is not ! exclaimed Maria , answering herself the man who could write those observations was not disordered in his intellects . 
She sat musing , gazing at the moon , and watching its motion as it seemed to glide under the clouds . 
At breakfast , Jemima enquired whether she understood French ? for , unless she did , the stranger's stock of books was exhausted . 
Maria replied in the affirmative but forbore to ask any more questions respecting the person to whom they belonged . 
And Jemima gave her a new subject for contemplation , by describing the person of a lovely maniac , just brought into an adjoining chamber . 
She was singing the pathetic ballad of old Rob with the most heart melting falls and pauses . 
and that , in consequence of his treatment , or something which hung on her mind , she had , during her first lying in , lost her senses . 
What a subject of meditation even to the very confines of madness . 
Towards the evening , Jemima brought her Rousseau's Heloise and she sat reading with eyes and heart , till the return of her guard to extinguish the light . 
One instance of her kindness was , the permitting Maria to have one , till her own hour of retiring to rest . 
She had read this work long since but now it seemed to open a new world to her the only one worth inhabiting . 
She returned dispirited to her couch , and thought of her child till the broad glare of day again invited her to the window . 
But if she lent St . 
Preux , or the demi god of her fancy , his form , she richly repaid him by the donation of all St . 
He must have been a transient acquaintance but to discover an acquaintance was fortunate , could she contrive to attract his attention , and excite his sympathy . 
Every glance afforded colouring for the picture she was delineating on her heart and once , when the window was half open , the sound of his voice reached her . 
Conviction flashed on her she had certainly , in a moment of distress , heard the same accents . 
They were manly , and characteristic of a noble mind nay , even sweet or sweet they seemed to her attentive ear . 
Whoever you are , who partake of my fate , accept my sincere commiseration I would have said protection but the privilege of man is denied me . 
I will enquire , why you are so mysteriously detained and I will have an answer . 
By the most pressing intreaties , Maria prevailed on Jemima to permit her to write a reply to this note . 
To write these letters was the business of the day , and to receive them the moment of sunshine . 
By some means , Darnford having discovered Maria's window , when she next appeared at it , he made her , behind his keepers , a profound bow of respect and recognition . 
Writing to Darnford , she was led from the sad objects before her , and frequently rendered insensible to the horrid noises around her , which previously had continually employed her feverish fancy . 
Maria impatiently wished to see her fellow sufferer but Darnford was still more earnest to obtain an interview . 
The copy which had received the author's last corrections breaks off in this place , and the pages which follow , to the end of Chap . 
IV , are printed from a copy in a less finished state . 
By degrees , Darnford entered into the particulars of his story . 
Nothing like meanness tarnished the lustre of his youth , nor had the worm of selfishness lurked in the unfolding bud , even while he had been the dupe of others . 
Yet he tardily acquired the experience necessary to guard him against future imposition . 
My father and mother were people of fashion married by their parents . 
He was fond of the turf , she of the card table . 
I , and two or three other children since dead , were kept at home till we became intolerable . 
My father and mother had a visible dislike to each other , continually displayed the servants were of the depraved kind usually found in the houses of people of fortune . 
My brothers and parents all dying , I was left to the care of guardians and sent to Eton . 
I never knew the sweets of domestic affection , but I felt the want of indulgence and frivolous respect at school . 
I will not disgust you with a recital of the vices of my youth , which can scarcely be comprehended by female delicacy . 
I formed my acquaintance with them at the theaters and , when vivacity danced in their eyes , I was not easily disgusted by the vulgarity which flowed from their lips . 
I shall not trouble you with the details of a military life . 
My blood was still kept in motion till , towards the close of the contest , I was wounded and taken prisoner . 
My political sentiments now underwent a total change and , dazzled by the hospitality of the Americans , I determined to take up my abode with freedom . 
I , therefore , with my usual impetuosity , sold my commission , and travelled into the interior parts of the country , to lay out my money to advantage . 
Added to this , I did not much like the puritanical manners of the large towns . 
Inequality of condition was there most disgustingly galling . 
renders the society of modest women so stupid in England , here seemed to throw still more leaden fetters on their charms . 
Not being an adept in gallantry , I found that I could only keep myself awake in their company by making downright love to them . 
Consequently , I determined to travel . 
Motion was a substitute for variety of objects and , passing over immense tracks of country , I exhausted my exuberant spirits , without obtaining much experience . 
The Indians who hovered on the skirts of the European settlements had only learned of their neighbours to plunder , and they stole their guns from them to do it with more safety . 
I wrote to a distant relation in England , with whom I had been educated , mentioning the vessel in which I intended to sail . 
Arriving in London , my senses were intoxicated . 
appeared to me like angels . 
My keepers are deaf to my remonstrances and enquiries , yet assure me that my confinement shall not last long . 
Still I cannot guess , though I weary myself with conjectures , why I am confined , or in what part of England this house is situated . 
I imagine sometimes that I hear the sea roar , and wished myself again on the Atlantic , till I had a glimpse of you . 
The introduction of Darnford as the deliverer of Maria in a former instance , appears to have been an after thought of the author . 
This has occasioned the omission of any allusion to that circumstance in the preceding narration . 
But , such was the native soundness of her constitution , that time had only given to her countenance the character of her mind . 
Having had to struggle incessantly with the vices of mankind , Maria's imagination found repose in pourtraying the possible virtues the world might contain . 
Pygmalion formed an ivory maid , and longed for an informing soul . 
She , on the contrary , combined all the qualities of a hero's mind , and fate presented a statue in which she might enshrine them . 
We mean not to trace the progress of this passion , or recount how often Darnford and Maria were obliged to part in the midst of an interesting conversation . 
Jemima ever watched on the tip toe of fear , and frequently separated them on a false alarm , when they would have given worlds to remain a little longer together . 
A magic lamp now seemed to be suspended in Maria's prison , and fairy landscapes flitted round the gloomy walls , late so blank . 
Rushing from the depth of despair , on the seraph wing of hope , she found herself happy . 
She was beloved , and every emotion was rapturous . 
One evening , when Jemima left them , to listen to the sound of a distant footstep , which seemed cautiously to approach , he seized Maria's hand it was not withdrawn . 
They conversed with earnestness of their situation and , during the conversation , he once or twice gently drew her towards him . 
Jemima was again at her elbow , and the restraint of her presence did not prevent an animated conversation , in which love , sly urchin , was ever at bo peep . 
So much of heaven did they enjoy , that paradise bloomed around them or they , by a powerful spell , had been transported into Armida's garden . 
Love , the grand enchanter , lapt them in Elysium , and every sense was harmonized to joy and social extacy . 
She seemed indeed to breathe more freely the cloud of suspicion cleared away from her brow she felt herself , for once in her life , treated like a fellow creature . 
Horror still reigned in the darkened cells , suspicion lurked in the passages , and whispered along the walls . 
The yells of men possessed , sometimes , made them pause , and wonder that they felt so happy , in a tomb of living death . 
They even chid themselves for such apparent insensibility still the world contained not three happier beings . 
And Jemima , after again patrolling the passage , was so softened by the air of confidence which breathed around her , that she voluntarily began an account of herself . 
The chicken has a wing to shelter under but I had no bosom to nestle in , no kindred warmth to foster me . 
Confined then in a damp hovel , to rock the cradle of the succeeding tribe , I looked like a little old woman , or a hag shrivelling into nothing . 
The furrows of reflection and care contracted the youthful cheek , and gave a sort of supernatural wildness to the ever watchful eye . 
During this period , my father had married another fellow servant , who loved him less , and knew better how to manage his passion , than my mother . 
I was young , it was true , but appeared a knowing little thing , and might be made handy . 
Accordingly I was brought to her house but not to a home for a home I never knew . 
I said that it was a part of my daily labour to attend this child , with the servility of a slave still it was but a part . 
No wonder then , treated like a creature of another species , that I began to envy , and at length to hate , the darling of the house . 
Yet , I perfectly remember , that it was the caresses , and kind expressions of my step mother , which first excited my jealous discontent . 
As her daughter grew up , she was pampered with cakes and fruit , while I was , literally speaking , fed with the refuse of the table , with her leavings . 
A liquorish tooth is , I believe , common to children , and I used to steal any thing sweet , that I could catch up with a chance of concealment . 
, the principal discourse was to recount my faults , and attribute them to the wicked disposition which I had brought into the world with me , inherited from my mother . 
He did not fail to leave the marks of his resentment on my body , and then solaced himself by playing with my sister . 
I could have murdered her at those moments . 
in my true colours but she , 'warranted , snapping her fingers , 'that she should break my spirit or heart . 
I shudder with horror , when I recollect the treatment I had now to endure . 
I was described as a wretch , whose nose must be kept to the grinding stone and it was held there with an iron grasp . 
It seemed indeed the privilege of their superior nature to kick me about , like the dog or cat . 
If I were attentive , I was called fawning , if refractory , an obstinate mule , and like a mule I received their censure on my loaded back . 
I stole now , from absolute necessity , bread yet whatever else was taken , which I had it not in my power to take , was ascribed to me . 
Even the very air I breathed was tainted with scorn for I was sent to the neighbouring shops with Glutton , Liar , or Thief , written on my forehead . 
Thus was I the mark of cruelty till my sixteenth year and then I have only to point out a change of misery for a period I never knew . 
Allow me first to make one observation . 
I had no one to love me or to make me respected , to enable me to acquire respect . 
I was an egg dropped on the sand a pauper by nature , hunted from family to family , who belonged to nobody and nobody cared for me . 
I was despised from my birth , and denied the chance of obtaining a footing for myself in society . 
My master had once or twice caught hold of me in the passage but I instinctively avoided his disgusting caresses . 
I communicated this dreadful circumstance to my master , who was almost equally alarmed at the intelligence for he feared his wife , and public censure at the meeting . 
I could not resolve to take this infernal potion but I wrapped it up in an old gown , and hid it in a corner of my box . 
Nobody yet suspected me , because they had been accustomed to view me as a creature of another species . 
His extreme intoxication made him forget his customary caution , and my mistress entered and found us in a situation that could not have been more hateful to her than me . 
Her husband was 'pot valiant , he feared her not at the moment , nor had he then much reason , for she instantly turned the whole force of her anger another way . 
My situation was , of course , discovered , and she declared that I should not stay another night under the same roof with an honest family . 
I was therefore pushed out of doors , and my trumpery thrown after me , when it had been contemptuously examined in the passage , lest I should have stolen any thing . 
I could not endure to hear him curse the day I was born , though life had been a curse to me . 
This night was spent in a state of stupefaction , or desperation . 
I detested mankind , and abhorred myself . 
In the morning I ventured out , to throw myself in my master's way , at his usual hour of going abroad . 
My head turned round , my heart grew sick , and in the horrors of approaching dissolution , mental anguish was swallowed up . 
I have since read in novels of the blandishments of seduction , but I had not even the pleasure of being enticed into vice . 
Fate dragged me through the very kennels of society I was still a slave , a bastard , a common property . 
You can scarcely conceive the tyranny exercised by these wretches considering themselves as the instruments of the very laws they violate , the pretext which steels their conscience , hardens their heart . 
To escape from this persecution , I once more entered into servitude . 
Besides , the common civility of speech , contrasted with the gross vulgarity to which I had been accustomed , was something like the polish of civilization . 
I was not shut out from all intercourse of humanity . 
, the being his mistress was purchasing it at a very dear rate . 
But my fondness of reading increasing , and my master occasionally shutting himself up in this retreat , for weeks together , to write , I had many opportunities of improvement . 
But , acquiring new principles , I began to have the ambition of returning to the respectable part of society , and was weak enough to suppose it possible . 
The attention of my unassuming instructor , who , without being ignorant of his own powers , possessed great simplicity of manners , strengthened the illusion . 
again threw me into the desert of human society . 
Tears started in my eyes , burning tears for there are situations in which a wretch is humbled by the contempt they are conscious they do not deserve . 
I returned to the metropolis but the solitude of a poor lodging was inconceivably dreary , after the society I had enjoyed . 
To be cut off from human converse , now I had been taught to relish it , was to wander a ghost among the living . 
Besides , I foresaw , to aggravate the severity of my fate , that my little pittance would soon melt away . 
The want of a character prevented my getting a place for , irksome as servitude would have been to me , I should have made another trial , had it been feasible . 
Not that I disliked employment , but the inequality of condition to which I must have submitted . 
I had not , it is true , tasted the charms of affection , but I had been familiar with the graces of humanity . 
One of the gentlemen , whom I had frequently dined in company with , while I was treated like a companion , met me in the street , and enquired after my health . 
To another I wrote , stating my case , and requesting advice . 
He was an advocate for unequivocal sincerity and had often , in my presence , descanted on the evils which arise in society from the despotism of rank and riches . 
In reply , I received a long essay on the energy of the human mind , with continual allusions to his own force of character . 
How writers , professing to be friends to freedom , and the improvement of morals , can assert that poverty is no evil , I cannot imagine . 
The mind is necessarily imprisoned in its own little tenement and , fully occupied by keeping it in repair , has not time to rove abroad for improvement . 
The copy which appears to have received the author's last corrections , ends at this place . 
Godwin's note And independence , said Darnford , they are necessarily strangers to , even the independence of despising their persecutors . 
If the poor are happy , or can be happy , things are very well as they are . 
And I cannot conceive on what principle those writers contend for a change of system , who support this opinion . 
But pray go on , addressing Jemima , though your narrative gives rise to the most painful reflections on the present state of society . 
On the happiness to be enjoyed over a washing tub I need not comment yet you will allow me to observe , that this was a wretchedness of situation peculiar to my sex . 
Condemned to labour , like a machine , only to earn bread , and scarcely that , I became melancholy and desperate . 
I have now to mention a circumstance which fills me with remorse , and fear it will entirely deprive me of your esteem . 
A tradesman became attached to me , and visited me frequently , and I at last obtained such a power over him , that he offered to take me home to his house . 
Consider , dear madam , I was famishing wonder not that I became a wolf ! . 
She approached her father's door , in the skirts of London , listened at the shutters , but could not knock . 
A watchman had observed her go and return several times Poor wretch ! The remorse Jemima spoke of , seemed to be stinging her to the soul , as she proceeded . 
I thought of my own state , and wondered how I could be such a monster ! I worked hard and , returning home , I was attacked by a fever . 
I suffered both in body and mind . 
I determined not to live with the wretch . 
But he did not try me he left the neighbourhood . 
I once more returned to the wash tub . 
Still this state , miserable as it was , admitted of aggravation . 
Lifting one day a heavy load , a tub fell against my shin , and gave me great pain . 
I did not pay much attention to the hurt , till it became a serious wound being obliged to work as usual , or starve . 
But , finding myself at length unable to stand for any time , I thought of getting into an hospital . 
I cannot give you an adequate idea of the wretchedness of an hospital every thing is left to the care of people intent on gain . 
The attendants seem to have lost all feeling of compassion in the bustling discharge of their offices death is so familiar to them , that they are not anxious to ward it off . 
Every thing appeared to be conducted for the accommodation of the medical men and their pupils , who came to make experiments on the poor , for the benefit of the rich . 
One of the physicians , I must not forget to mention , gave me half a crown , and ordered me some wine , when I was at the lowest ebb . 
I thought of making my case known to the lady like matron but her forbidding countenance prevented me . 
I could not now cease to reason , but I hated mankind . 
I despised myself , yet I justified my conduct . 
I was taken , tried , and condemned to six months' imprisonment in a house of correction . 
My soul recoils with horror from the remembrance of the insults I had to endure , till , branded with shame , I was turned loose in the street , pennyless . 
I wandered from street to street , till , exhausted by hunger and fatigue , I sunk down senseless at a door , where I had vainly demanded a morsel of bread . 
Jemima returning , seemed in haste to finish her tale . 
The overseer farmed the poor of different parishes , and out of the bowels of poverty was wrung the money with which he purchased this dwelling , as a private receptacle for madness . 
He had been a keeper at a house of the same description , and conceived that he could make money much more readily in his old occupation . 
He is a shrewd shall I say it ? villain . 
He observed something resolute in my manner , and offered to take me with him , and instruct me how to treat the disturbed minds he meant to intrust to my care . 
I agreed to accompany him and four years have I been attendant on many wretches , and she lowered her voice , the witness of many enormities . 
In solitude my mind seemed to recover its force , and many of the sentiments which I imbibed in the only tolerable period of my life , returned with their full force . 
Darnford soon after heard his summons , and , taking leave of him , Maria promised to gratify his curiosity , with respect to herself , the first opportunity . 
CHAPTER ACTIVE as love was in the heart of Maria , the story she had just heard made her thoughts take a wider range . 
The opening buds of hope closed , as if they had put forth too early , and the the happiest day of her life was overcast by the most melancholy reflections . 
Thinking of Jemima's peculiar fate and her own , she was led to consider the oppressed state of women , and to lament that she had given birth to a daughter . 
Maria thought , and thought again . 
This project was now the only subject of reflection and she watched impatiently for the dawn of day , with that determinate purpose which generally insures success . 
At the usual hour , Jemima brought her breakfast , and a tender note from Darnford . 
While Jemima waited to take away the breakfast , Maria alluded to the reflections , that had haunted her during the night to the exclusion of sleep . 
The Good night ! Maria uttered was peculiarly solemn and affectionate . 
Recollecting herself , a still kinder Adieu ! with a God bless you ! that seemed to include a maternal benediction , dismissed Jemima . 
The dreary solitude of the ensuing day , lengthened by impatiently dwelling on the same idea , was intolerably wearisome . 
She listened for the sound of a particular clock , which some directions of the wind allowed her to hear distinctly . 
She marked the shadow gaining on the wall and , twilight thickening into darkness , her breath seemed oppressed while she anxiously counted nine . 
She was even obliged to prepare for bed , restless as she was , not to disoblige her new attendant . 
She had been cautioned not to speak too freely to her but the caution was needless , her countenance would still more emphatically have made her shrink back . 
Jemima put down the tea things , and appeared very busy in arranging the table . 
From my narrative , my dear girl , you may gather the instruction , the counsel , which is meant rather to exercise than influence your mind . 
Gain experience ah ! gain it while experience is worth having , and acquire sufficient fortitude to pursue your own happiness it includes your utility , by a direct path . 
Had I not wasted years in deliberating , after I ceased to doubt , how I ought to have acted I might now be useful and happy . 
For my sake , warned by my example , always appear what you are , and you will not pass through existence without enjoying its genuine blessings , love and respect . 
In his family , to regain his lost consequence , he determined to keep up the same passive obedience , as in the vessels in which he had commanded . 
My eldest brother , it is true , as he grew up , was treated with more respect by my father and became in due form the deputy tyrant of the house . 
The representative of my father , a being privileged by nature a boy , and the darling of my mother , he did not fail to act like an heir apparent . 
Such indeed was my mother's extravagant partiality , that , in comparison with her affection for him , she might be said not to love the rest of her children . 
Yet none of the children seemed to have so little affection for her . 
Thus are we destined to experience a mixture of bitterness , with the recollection of our most innocent enjoyments . 
Such indeed is the force of prejudice , that what was called spirit and wit in him , was cruelly repressed as forwardness in me . 
My mother had an indolence of character , which prevented her from paying much attention to our education . 
But the healthy breeze of a neighbouring heath , on which we bounded at pleasure , volatilized the humours that improper food might have generated . 
I had however one advantage , an instructor , the brother of my father , who , intended for the church , had of course received a liberal education . 
Every other passion was lost in this master one , and only served to swell the torrent . 
His native country , the world ! lately a garden of blooming sweets , blasted by treachery , seemed changed into a parched desert , the abode of hissing serpents . 
Something in my countenance pleased him , when I began to prattle . 
He had a forcible manner of speaking , rendered more so by a certain impressive wildness of look and gesture , calculated to engage the attention of a young and ardent mind . 
It is not then surprising that I quickly adopted his opinions in preference , and reverenced him as one of a superior order of beings . 
These remarks are necessary to elucidate some peculiarities in my character , which by the world are indefinitely termed romantic . 
My uncle's increasing affection led him to visit me often . 
My eldest brother was articled to a neighbouring attorney , the shrewdest , and , I may add , the most unprincipled man in that part of the country . 
As my brother generally came home every Saturday , to astonish my mother by exhibiting his attainments , he gradually assumed a right of directing the whole family , not excepting my father . 
About this period a merchant's family came to settle in our neighbourhood . 
My sensations were very different , and all of a pleasurable kind . 
I longed to see new characters , to break the tedious monotony of my life and to find a friend , such as fancy had pourtrayed . 
I cannot then describe the emotion I felt , the Sunday they made their appearance at church . 
We visited them in form and I quickly selected the eldest daughter for my friend . 
Had my home been more comfortable , or my previous acquaintance more numerous , I should not probably have been so eager to open my heart to new affections . 
Indeed , he had laboured to throw off his authority , having despised his narrow plans and cautious speculation . 
In London , George had acquired habits of libertinism , which he carefully concealed from his father and his commercial connections . 
A circumstance which soon after occurred , rendered all these virtues palpable . 
The incident is perhaps worth relating on other accounts , and therefore I shall describe it distinctly . 
I had a great affection for my nurse , old Mary , for whom I used often to work , to spare her eyes . 
Peggy , Mary's sister , lived with her , till her husband , becoming a mate in a West Indian trader , got a little before hand in the world . 
It was too much to set out on a journey the moment he had finished a voyage , and fifty miles by land , was worse than a thousand leagues by sea . 
She packed up her alls , and came to London but did not meet honest Daniel . 
A common misfortune prevented her , and the poor are bound to suffer for the good of their country he was pressed in the river and never came on shore . 
Peggy was miserable in London , not knowing , as she said , 'the face of any living soul . 
Besides , her imagination had been employed , anticipating a month or six weeks' happiness with her husband . 
Daniel was to have gone with her to Sadler's Wells , and Westminster Abbey , and to many sights , which he knew she never heard of in the country . 
His letters were made up of How do you does , and God bless yous , information was reserved for the hour of meeting . 
She too had her portion of information , near at heart . 
Molly and Jacky were grown such little darlings , she was almost angry that daddy did not see their tricks . 
She had not half the pleasure she should have had from their prattle , could she have recounted to him each night the pretty speeches of the day . 
Some stories , however , were stored up and Jacky could say papa with such a sweet voice , it must delight his heart . 
But more sorrow was in store for Peggy , innocent as she was . 
Daniel was killed in the first engagement , and then the papa was agony , sounding to the heart . 
She did not like to go to service , to be snubbed about , after being her own mistress . 
It was pleasant to work for her children . 
The country people were honest , and Peggy left her linen out to dry very late . 
A recruiting party , as she supposed , passing through , made free with a large wash for it was all swept away , including her own and her children's little stock . 
This was a dreadful blow two dozen of shirts , stocks and handkerchiefs . 
She was now with Mary , and had just told her tale , which Mary instantly repeated it was intended for my ear . 
He demanded Peggy's , and , in spite of her intreaties , her poor goods had been seized and sold . 
So that she had not , and what was worse her children , 'for she had known sorrow enough , a bed to lie on . 
She entering in the midst of the package , I gave her some new feathers , to silence her . 
My project of usefulness ended not here I determined to speak to the attorney he frequently paid me compliments . 
My repose was sweet and , waking with the first dawn of day , I bounded to Mary's cottage . 
The present moment was full fraught with happiness and on futurity I bestowed not a thought , excepting to anticipate my success with the attorney . 
This man of the world , with rosy face and simpering features , received me politely , nay kindly listened with complacency to my remonstrances , though he scarcely heeded Mary's tears . 
Pressing my hand , he promised to let Peggy remain in the house as long as I wished . 
I more than returned the pressure I was so grateful and so happy . 
Emboldened by my innocent warmth , he then kissed me and I did not draw back I took it for a kiss of charity . 
Gay as a lark , I went to dine at Mr. Venables' . 
Miss Venables gave me half a crown the heir five shillings but George sat unmoved . 
I was roused by a gentle tap on my shoulder from behind Charlotte's chair . 
I turned my head , and George slid a guinea into my hand , putting his finger to his mouth , to enjoin me silence . 
What a revolution took place , not only in my train of thoughts , but feelings ! I trembled with emotion now , indeed , I was in love . 
The bitter experience was yet to come , that has taught me how very distinct are the principles of virtue , from the casual feelings from which they germinate . 
But , to hasten to the more busy scenes of my life . 
Mr. Venables and my mother died the same summer and , wholly engrossed by my attention to her , I thought of little else . 
They but too frequently waste their health and spirits attending a dying parent , who leaves them in comparative poverty . 
My mother's conduct led me to make these reflections . 
During my mother's illness , I was obliged to manage my father's temper , who , from the lingering nature of her malady , began to imagine that it was merely fancy . 
At this period , an artful kind of upper servant attracted my father's attention , and the neighbours made many remarks on the finery , not honestly got , exhibited at evening service . 
But I was too much occupied with my mother to observe any change in her dress or behaviour , or to listen to the whisper of scandal . 
My mother had solemnly recommended my sisters to my care , and bid me be a mother to them . 
George , though dissatisfied with his portion of the fortune , which had till lately been all in trade , visited the family as usual . 
He was now full of speculations in trade , and his brow became clouded by care . 
He seemed to relax in his attention to me , when the presence of my uncle gave a new turn to his behaviour . 
I was too unsuspecting , too disinterested , to trace these changes to their source . 
My home every day became more and more disagreeable to me my liberty was unnecessarily abridged , and my books , on the pretext that they made me idle , taken from me . 
My father's mistress was with child , and he , doating on her , allowed or overlooked her vulgar manner of tyrannizing over us . 
I was indignant , especially when I saw her endeavouring to attract , shall I say seduce ? my younger brother . 
The wearisomeness of my situation can scarcely be described . 
My father's former occasional tenderness , in spite of his violence of temper , had been soothing to me but now he only met me with reproofs or portentous frowns . 
To my uncle I ventured to open my heart and he , with his wonted benevolence , began to consider in what manner he could extricate me out of my present irksome situation . 
the only chance for happiness in this disastrous world . 
A colt of mettle will curvet and shew his paces . 
Yes my dear girl , these prudent young men want all the fire necessary to ferment their faculties , and are characterized as wise , only because they are not foolish . 
All my schemes of usefulness would not then have been blasted . 
The tenderness of my heart would not have heated my imagination with visions of the ineffable delight of happy love nor would the sweet duty of a mother have been so cruelly interrupted . 
But I must not suffer the fortitude I have so hardly acquired , to be undermined by unavailing regret . 
Let me hasten forward to describe the turbid stream in which I had to wade but let me exultingly declare that it is passed my soul holds fellowship with him no more . 
These varying emotions will not allow me to proceed . 
I heave sigh after sigh yet my heart is still oppressed . 
For what am I reserved ? Why was I not born a man , or why was I born at all ? CHAPTER I RESUME my pen to fly from thought . 
I was married and we hastened to London . 
An objection was made to her accompanying me , that appeared plausible and I reluctantly acquiesced . 
I was however willingly allowed to take with me Molly , poor Peggy's daughter . 
London and preferment , are ideas commonly associated in the country and , as blooming as May , she bade adieu to Peggy with weeping eyes . 
He asked me , giving me a kiss , 'If I had lost my senses ? I started back , as if I had found a wasp in a rose bush . 
He sneered and the demon of discord entered our paradise , to poison with his pestiferous breath every opening joy . 
My husband was sunk in my esteem still there are youthful emotions , which , for a while , fill up the chasm of love and friendship . 
Besides , it required some time to enable me to see his whole character in a just light , or rather to allow it to become fixed . 
This discovery , strange as you may think the assertion , gave me pleasure my husband's embarrassments endeared him to me . 
I was glad to find an excuse for his conduct to my sisters , and my mind became calmer . 
My uncle introduced me to some literary society and the theatres were a never failing source of amusement to me . 
Still the novelty of London , and the attentive fondness of my husband , for he had some personal regard for me , made several months glide away . 
With all my attention and affectionate interest , I perceived that I could not become the friend or confident of my husband . 
Returning from the theatre , or any amusing party , I frequently began to relate what I had seen and highly relished but with sullen taciturnity he soon silenced me . 
I seemed therefore gradually to lose , in his society , the soul , the energies of which had just been in action . 
The very countenance of my husband changed his complexion became sallow , and all the charms of youth were vanishing with its vivacity . 
At first it was to prevent bills being noted , to the injury of his credit then to bail him and afterwards to prevent an execution from entering the house . 
From the moment I pronounced this determination , indifference on his part was changed into rudeness , or something worse . 
He now seldom dined at home , and continually returned at a late hour , drunk , to bed . 
Meretricious ornaments and manners were necessary to attract his attention . 
Men who are inferior to their fellow men , are always most anxious to establish their superiority over women . 
It is not easy to be pleased , because , after promising to love , in different circumstances , we are told that it is our duty . 
forget my own sensations , when rising with health and spirit , and after scenting the sweet morning , I have met my husband at the breakfast table . 
The squeamishness of stomach alone , produced by the last night's intemperance , which he took no pains to conceal , destroyed my appetite . 
I think I now see him lolling in an arm chair , in a dirty powdering gown , soiled linen , ungartered stockings , and tangled hair , yawning and stretching himself . 
I watched her sick bed for some months , and then closed her eyes , gentle spirit ! for ever . 
She was pretty , with very engaging manners yet had never an opportunity to marry , excepting to a very old man . 
I had casually observed an old , meanlooking woman , who called on my husband every two or three months to receive some money . 
'So much the better , he replied , and pray mind your own business , good woman . 
A month or two elapsed before I saw this woman again and then she had a child in her hand that tottered along , scarcely able to sustain her own weight . 
They were going away , to return at the hour Mr. Venables was expected he was now from home . 
I desired the woman to walk into the parlour . 
She hesitated , yet obeyed . 
, that I had seen her , or his child . 
The woman stared at me with astonishment and I turned my eyes on the squalid object that accompanied her . 
She could hardly support herself , her complexion was sallow , and her eyes inflamed , with an indescribable look of cunning , mixed with the wrinkles produced by the peevishness of pain . 
Poor child ! I exclaimed . 
'Ah ! you may well say poor child , replied the woman . 
'I brought her here to see whether he would have the heart to look at her , and not get some advice . 
I do not know what they deserve who nursed her . 
On further enquiry I was informed , that this miserable spectacle was the daughter of a servant , a country girl , who caught Mr. Venables' eye , and whom he seduced . 
On his marriage he sent her away , her situation being too visible . 
After her delivery , she was thrown on the town and died in an hospital within the year . 
I grew sick at heart . 
If the state of this child affected me , what were my feelings at a discovery I made respecting Peggy ? The manuscript is imperfect here . 
An episode seems to have been intended , which was never committed to paper . 
I took down with me some presents for my step mother it did not require an effort for me to treat her with civility , or to forget the past . 
This was the first time I had visited my native village , since my marriage . 
I forgot , with equal facility , that I ever felt sorrow , or knew care in the country while a transient rainbow stole athwart the cloudy sky of despondency . 
The picturesque form of several favourite trees , and the porches of rude cottages , with their smiling hedges , were recognized with the gladsome playfulness of childish vivacity . 
I could have kissed the chickens that pecked on the common and longed to pat the cows , and frolic with the dogs that sported on it . 
I wandered through the church in fancy , as I used sometimes to do on a Saturday evening . 
I recollected with what fervour I addressed the God of my youth and once more with rapturous love looked above my sorrows to the Father of nature . 
I insensibly breathe soft , hushing every wayward emotion , as if fearing to sully with a sigh , a contentment so extatic . 
Having settled my father's affairs , and , by my exertions in his favour , made my brother my sworn foe , I returned to London . 
He besought me to aid him with my counsel , praised my understanding , and appealed to the tenderness of my heart . 
This conduct only inspired me with compassion . 
left a fragrance behind , to mark where he had shook his wings . 
My husband's renewed caresses then became hateful to me his brutality was tolerable , compared to his distasteful fondness . 
Still , compassion , and the fear of insulting his supposed feelings , by a want of sympathy , made me dissemble , and do violence to my delicacy . 
They may possess tenderness but they want that fire of the imagination , which produces active sensibility , and positive virtue . 
Yes eagerly as I wish you to possess true rectitude of mind , and purity of affection , I must insist that a heartless conduct is the contrary of virtuous . 
Truth is the only basis of virtue and we cannot , without depraving our minds , endeavour to please a lover or husband , but in proportion as he pleases us . 
Marriage had bastilled me for life . 
When I exhorted my husband to economy , I referred to himself . 
I was obliged to practise the most rigid , or contract debts , which I had too much reason to fear would never be paid . 
I despised this paltry privilege of a wife , which can only be of use to the vicious or inconsiderate , and determined not to increase the torrent that was bearing him down . 
I was then ignorant of the extent of his fraudulent speculations , whom I was bound to honour and obey . 
A woman neglected by her husband , or whose manners form a striking contrast with his , will always have men on the watch to soothe and flatter her . 
A man of feeling thinks not of seducing , he is himself seduced by all the noblest emotions of his soul . 
He figures to himself all the sacrifices a woman of sensibility must make , and every situation in which his imagination places her , touches his heart , and fires his passions . 
These remarks are not dictated by experience but merely by the compassion I feel for many amiable women , the outlaws of the world . 
For myself , never encouraging any of the advances that were made to me , my lovers dropped off like the untimely shoots of spring . 
My reserve was then the consequence of delicacy . 
He had been deceived in the unfolding of his character he now thought it fixed in a train of actions that would inevitably lead to ruin and disgrace . 
The evening before his departure , which we spent alone together , he folded me to his heart , uttering the endearing appellation of 'child . 
He had before expressed his sorrow at hearing of my pregnancy , having determined to prevail on me to accompany him , till I informed him of that circumstance . 
He expressed himself unfeignedly sorry that any new tie should bind me to a man whom he thought so incapable of estimating my value such was the kind language of affection . 
in case her husband merits neither her love , nor esteem . 
Esteem will often supply the place of love and prevent a woman from being wretched , though it may not make her happy . 
But the misfortune is , that many women only submit in appearance , and forfeit their own respect to secure their reputation in the world . 
The situation of a woman separated from her husband , is undoubtedly very different from that of a man who has left his wife . 
He , with lordly dignity , has shaken of a clog and the allowing her food and raiment , is thought sufficient to secure his reputation from taint . 
And , should she have been inconsiderate , he will be celebrated for his generosity and forbearance . 
is despised and shunned , for asserting the independence of mind distinctive of a rational being , and spurning at slavery . 
During the remainder of the evening , my uncle's tenderness led him frequently to revert to the subject , and utter , with increasing warmth , sentiments to the same purport . 
At length it was necessary to say 'Farewell ! and we parted gracious God ! to meet no more . 
I ever disdained unnecessary , perhaps even prudent concealments and my husband , with great ease , discovered the amount of my uncle's parting present . 
A copy of a writ was the stale pretext to extort it from me and I had soon reason to believe that it was fabricated for the purpose . 
I acknowledge my folly in thus suffering myself to be continually imposed on . 
Thus did he pillage me and my family , thus frustrate all my plans of usefulness . 
what she earns by her own exertions . 
But I must have done on this subject , my indignation continually runs away with me . 
The amusement his conversation afforded me , made it easy to comply with my husband's request , to endeavour to render our house agreeable to him . 
He assumed a new mode of attack , and I was , for a while , the dupe of his pretended friendship . 
I had , merely in the style of badinage , boasted of my conquest , and repeated his lover like compliments to my husband . 
But he begged me , for God's sake , not to affront his friend , or I should destroy all his projects , and be his ruin . 
This friend began now , in confidence , to discover to me the real state of my husband's affairs . 
He was considered , he added , lowering his voice , 'on 'Change as a swindler . 
I felt at that moment the first maternal pang . 
that I began to consult him respecting the best mode of retrieving my husband's character it is the good name of a woman only that sets to rise no more . 
I knew not that he had been drawn into a whirlpool , out of which he had not the energy to attempt to escape . 
He seemed indeed destitute of the power of employing his faculties in any regular pursuit . 
He was just such a citizen , as a father . 
One day he came , as I thought accidentally , to dinner . 
My husband was very much engaged in business , and quitted the room soon after the cloth was removed . 
We conversed as usual , till confidential advice led again to love . 
I had a sincere regard for him , and hoped that he had an equal friendship for me . 
I therefore began mildly to expostulate with him . 
This gentleness he mistook for coy encouragement and he would not be diverted from the subject . 
I snatched the letter with indescribable emotion . 
The purport of it was to invite him to dinner , and to ridicule his chivalrous respect for me . 
These he termed liberal sentiments . 
I read this letter twice over and the firm purpose it inspired , calmed the rising tumult of my soul . 
I rose deliberately , requested Mr. S to wait a moment , and instantly going into the counting house , desired Mr. Venables to return with me to the dining parlour . 
He laid down his pen , and entered with me , without observing any change in my countenance . 
I shut the door , and , giving him the letter , simply asked , 'whether he wrote it , or was it a forgery ? Nothing could equal his confusion . 
His friend's eye met his , and he muttered something about a joke But I interrupted him 'It is sufficient We part for ever . 
I continued , with solemnity , 'I have borne with your tyranny and infidelities . 
I disdain to utter what I have borne with . 
I thought you unprincipled , but not so decidedly vicious . 
Neglected by you , I have resolutely stifled the enticing emotions , and respected the plighted faith you outraged . 
I will provide for myself and child . 
I leave him as free as I am determined to be myself he shall be answerable for no debts of mine . 
'Was it possible ? Was I , indeed , free ? Yes free I termed myself , when I decidedly perceived the conduct I ought to adopt . 
The face of heaven grew fairer as I viewed it , and the clouds seemed to flit away obedient to my wishes , to give my soul room to expand . 
felt as if I could have dissolved in the soft balmy gale that kissed my cheek , or have glided below the horizon on the glowing , descending beams . 
The lustre of these bright picturesque sketches faded with the setting sun but I was still alive to the calm delight they had diffused through my heart . 
There may be advocates for matrimonial obedience , who , making a distinction between the duty of a wife and of a human being , may blame my conduct . 
So far from having an affection for me , he really hated me , because he was convinced that I must despise him . 
'Reflection , I replied , 'had only confirmed my purpose , and no power on earth could divert me from it . 
I declared , interrupting him , 'that I would promise nothing . 
I had no measures to keep with him I was resolved , and would not condescend to subterfuge . 
I had passively followed him up stairs , not wishing to fatigue myself with unavailing exertion . 
Nothing calms the mind like a fixed purpose . 
I disregarded present inconveniences , when my mind had done struggling with itself , when reason and inclination had shaken hands and were at peace . 
He had been drinking plentifully to aid his courage . 
I did not at first deign to reply . 
He attempted to pull me into the chamber , half joking . 
I sat musing some time longer then , throwing my cloak around me , prepared for sleep on a sopha . 
He uttered this speech with a self satisfied air , and went down stairs to dress . 
In about an hour he came to me again and in the same tone said , 'That he came as my gentleman usher to hand me down to breakfast . 
'Of the black rod ? asked I. This question , and the tone in which I asked it , a little disconcerted him . 
For his part , he thanked God , he was no hypocrite and , if he stretched a point sometimes , it was always with an intention of paying every man his own . 
He had no doubt of becoming rich in a few years , though he had been thrown back by some unlucky adventures at the setting out . 
I mildly replied , 'That I wished he might not involve himself still deeper . 
He had no notion that I was governed by a decision of judgment , not to be compared with a mere spurt of resentment . 
He knew not what it was to feel indignation against vice , and often boasted of his placable temper , and readiness to forgive injuries . 
And , as his heart never opened to friendship , it never was wounded by disappointment . 
His respect for rank or fortune was more permanent , though he chanced to have no design of availing himself of the influence of either to promote his own views . 
flushed over my whole countenance as he spoke he alluded to my situation . 
I was not , he laid a stress on his words , 'without my passions and a husband was a convenient cloke . 
My spirits were all in arms , and I played a kind of extemporary prelude . 
The cadence was probably wild and impassioned , while , lost in thought , I made the sounds a kind of echo to my train of thinking . 
Pausing for a moment , I met Mr. Venables' eyes . 
He was observing me with an air of conceited satisfaction , as much as to say 'My last insinuation has done the business she begins to know her own interest . 
I still continued playing and , turning to a sprightly lesson , I executed it with uncommon vivacity . 
I heard footsteps approach the door , and was soon convinced that Mr. Venables was listening the consciousness only gave more animation to my fingers . 
He went down into the kitchen , and the cook , probably by his desire , came to me , to know what I would please to order for dinner . 
Mr. Venables came into the parlour again , with apparent carelessness . 
I perceived that the cunning man was overreaching himself and I gave my directions as usual , and left the room . 
While I was making some alteration in my dress , Mr. Venables peeped in , and , begging my pardon for interrupting me , disappeared . 
, and two or three messages were sent to me , probably for no other purpose , but to enable Mr. Venables to ascertain what I was about . 
I listened whenever I heard the street door open at last I imagined I could distinguish Mr. Venables' step , going out . 
I almost feared that the coach would break down before I got out of the street and , when I turned the corner , I seemed to breathe a freer air . 
I was ready to imagine that I was rising above the thick atmosphere of earth or I felt , as wearied souls might be supposed to feel on entering another state of existence . 
I mentioned my intention of setting out for Lisbon , to claim my uncle's protection , the moment my health would permit . 
The tranquillity however , which I was recovering , was soon interrupted . 
My landlady came up to me one day , with eyes swollen with weeping , unable to utter what she was commanded to say . 
Sobs prevented her from proceeding , or answering my impatient enquiries , to know what she meant . 
I snatched the paper from her . 
Perfectly acquainted with Mr. Venables' meanness of soul , this step did not excite my surprise , and scarcely my contempt . 
Resentment in my breast , never survived love . 
I bade the poor woman , in a kind tone , wipe her eyes , and request her husband to come up , and speak to me himself . 
He respected a lady , though not a woman and began to mutter out an apology . 
A husband and wife were , God knows , just as one , and all would come round at last . 
To argue with this privileged first born of reason , I perceived , would be vain . 
Without wasting any time in the fruitless indulgence of vexation , I once more set out in search of an abode in which I could hide myself for a few weeks . 
Thus was I obliged to shroud my head in infamy . 
I did not inform my landlady where I was going . 
He could be kind hearted , as she expressed it , when he pleased . 
And this thawed sternness , contrasted with his habitual brutality , was the more acceptable , and could not be purchased at too dear a rate . 
to the chambers of my uncle's friend . 
He kept his word still no letter arrived to put an end to my painful state of suspense . 
I procured some books and music , to beguile the tedious solitary days . 
The maid servant assured him there was no such person in the house . 
A bustle ensued I caught the alarm listened distinguished his voice , and immediately locked the door . 
Finding my door locked , she requested me to open it , and prepare to go home with my husband , poor gentleman ! to whom I had already occasioned sufficient vexation . 
Mr. Venables then , in an assumed tone of softness , intreated me , 'to consider what he suffered , and my own reputation , and get the better of childish resentment . 
Sick of the farce , and perceiving that I could not avoid the hated interview , I opened the door , and he entered . 
His conductress was retiring , to give us , as she said , an opportunity to accommodate matters . 
But I bade her come in , or I would go out and curiosity impelled her to obey me . 
Mr. Venables began to expostulate and this woman , proud of his confidence , to second him . 
After a long altercation , the particulars of which , it would be to no purpose to repeat , he left the room . 
Some time was spent in loud conversation in the parlour below , and I discovered that he had brought his friend , an attorney , with him . 
In the original edition the paragraph following is preceded by three lines of asterisks Publisher's note . 
The stranger turned to me , observing , with the most soothing politeness and manly interest , that 'my countenance told a very different story . 
He added , 'that I should not be insulted , or forced out of the house , by any body . 
to have been an after thought of the author . 
XVII , that an interference of a more decisive nature was designed to be attributed to him . 
Godwin's note 'Not by her husband ? asked the attorney . 
'No , sir , not by her husband . 
Two and a half lines of asterisks appear here in the original Publisher's note . 
They were scarcely out of the house , when my landlady came up to me again , and begged my pardon , in a very different tone . 
For , though Mr. Venables had bid her , at her peril , harbour me , he had not attended , I found , to her broad hints , to discharge the lodging . 
So much so , that their boasted sensibility is often stifled by false delicacy . 
He would have been ashamed of being as indulgent to himself , as he was to others . 
'Genuine fortitude , he would assert , 'consisted in governing our own emotions , and making allowance for the weaknesses in our friends , that we would not tolerate in ourselves . 
But where is my fond regret leading me ! 'Women must be submissive , said my landlady . 
She was in a talking mood , and proceeded to inform me how she had been used in the world . 
'She knew what it was to have a bad husband , or she did not know who should . 
to marry a likely man , a footman in the family , not worth a groat . 
Aye , madam , these are misfortunes that you gentlefolks know nothing of , but sorrow is sorrow , let it come which way it will . 
my husband returned found me out , and came with such a penitent face , I forgave him , and clothed him from head to foot . 
He was soon tired of me , when there was nothing more to be had , and left me again . 
, and then we would plan a journey to Italy , leaving the fogs and cares of England far behind . 
He approved of my conduct , promised to adopt my child , and seemed to have no doubt of obliging Mr. Venables to hear reason . 
'Ought to be ! I exclaimed and I endeavoured to drive away the tenderness that suffocated me but my spirits were weak , and the unbidden tears would flow . 
The spring was melting into summer , and you , my little companion , began to smile that smile made hope bud out afresh , assuring me the world was not a desert . 
Your gestures were ever present to my fancy and I dwelt on the joy I should feel when you would begin to walk and lisp . 
A friend of Mr. Venables , the same attorney who had accompanied him in several excursions to hunt me from my hiding places , waited on me to propose a reconciliation . 
The bond was executed still I was impatient to leave England . 
Disturbed by the late occurrences , I instantly prepared for my departure . 
My only delay was waiting for a maid servant , who spoke French fluently , and had been warmly recommended to me . 
A valet I was advised to hire , when I fixed on my place of residence for any time . 
My God , with what a light heart did I set out for Dover ! It was not my country , but my cares , that I was leaving behind . 
My heart seemed to bound with the wheels , or rather appeared the centre on which they twirled . 
I clasped you to my bosom , exclaiming 'And you will be safe quite safe when we are once on board the packet . 
I was already in the snare I never reached the packet I never saw thee more . 
I have scarcely patience to write down the details . 
The maid the plausible woman I had hired put , doubtless , some stupefying potion in what I ate or drank , the morning I left town . 
How long I slept I know not certainly many hours , for I woke at the close of day , in a strange confusion of thought . 
I was probably roused to recollection by some one thundering at a huge , unwieldy gate . 
Attempting to ask where I was , my voice died away , and I tried to raise it in vain , as I have done in a dream . 
The door was opened slowly , and a murderous visage peeped out , with a lantern . 
'Hush ! he uttered , in a threatning tone , and the affrighted animal stole back to his kennel . 
The door of the chaise flew back , the stranger put down the lantern , and clasped his dreadful arms around me . 
I was carried up the steps into a close shut hall . 
A candle flaring in the socket , scarcely dispersed the darkness , though it displayed to me the ferocious countenance of the wretch who held me . 
He mounted a wide staircase . 
Large figures painted on the walls seemed to start on me , and glaring eyes to meet me at every turn . 
A strange looking female started out of one of the recesses , and observed me with more curiosity than interest till , sternly bid retire , she flitted back like a shadow . 
Other faces , strongly marked , or distorted , peeped through the half opened doors , and I heard some incoherent sounds . 
I had no distinct idea where I could be I looked on all sides , and almost doubted whether I was alive or dead . 
APPENDIX ADVERTISEMENT THE performance , with a fragment of which the reader has now been presented , was designed to consist of three parts . 
The preceding sheets were considered as constituting one of those parts . 
The fastidious and cold hearted critic may perhaps feel himself repelled by the incoherent form in which they are presented . 
Presumed to have been written by Godwin Publisher's note . 
In her case , to talk of duty , was a farce , excepting what was due to herself . 
He was and the tear which glistened in his eye , when he respectfully pressed her to his bosom , rendered him peculiarly dear to the unfortunate mother . 
Grief had stilled the transports of love , only to render their mutual tenderness more touching . 
He adverted to her narrative , and spoke with warmth of the oppression she had endured . 
They met again and again and Darnford declared , while passion suffused his cheeks , that he never before knew what it was to love . 
One morning Jemima informed Maria , that her master intended to wait on her , and speak to her without witnesses . 
He came , and brought a letter with him , pretending that he was ignorant of its contents , though he insisted on having it returned to him . 
Maria answered with warmth , That she had no terms to make with the murderer of her babe , nor would she purchase liberty at the price of her own respect . 
She began to expostulate with her jailor but he sternly bade her Be silent he had not gone so far , not to go further . 
Darnford came in the evening . 
Jemima was obliged to be absent , and she , as usual , locked the door on them , to prevent interruption or discovery . 
The lovers were , at first , embarrassed but fell insensibly into confidential discourse . 
Darnford represented , that they might soon be parted , and wished her to put it out of the power of fate to separate them . 
As her husband she now received him , and he solemnly pledged himself as her protector and eternal friend . 
Maria now , imagining that she had found a being of celestial mould was happy , nor was she deceived . 
He was then plastic in her impassioned hand and reflected all the sentiments which animated and warmed her . 
Two and a half lines of dashes follow here in the original Publisher's note . 
I am prepared then , said Jemima , to accompany you in your flight . 
Maria started up , her eyes darting towards the door , as if afraid that some one should fasten it on her for ever . 
Jemima continued , I have perhaps no right now to expect the performance of your promise but on you it depends to reconcile me with the human race . 
But Darnford ! exclaimed Maria , mournfully sitting down again , and crossing her arms I have no child to go to , and liberty has lost its sweets . 
In that inform him where he may find you in London fix on some hotel . 
Give me your clothes I will send them out of the house with mine , and we will slip out at the garden gate . 
Write your letter while I make these arrangements , but lose no time ! In an agitation of spirit , not to be calmed , Maria began to write to Darnford . 
She called him by the sacred name of husband , and bade him hasten to her , to share her fortune , or she would return to him . 
An hotel in the Adelphi was the place of rendezvous . 
A being , with a visage that would have suited one possessed by a devil , crossed the path , and seized Maria by the arm . 
Maria had no fear but of being detained Who are you ? what are you ? for the form was scarcely human . 
They were out of his reach . 
When Maria arrived in town , she drove to the hotel already fixed on . 
But she could not sit still her child was ever before her and all that had passed during her confinement , appeared to be a dream . 
She went to the house in the suburbs , where , as she now discovered , her babe had been sent . 
The moment she entered , her heart grew sick but she wondered not that it had proved its grave . 
She made the necessary enquiries , and the church yard was pointed out , in which it rested under a turf . 
A little frock which the nurse's child wore caught her eye . 
She then waited on the attorney who had made her uncle's will , and explained to him her situation . 
He readily advanced her some of the money which still remained in his hands , and promised to take the whole of the case into consideration . 
Maria inconsiderately consented Darnford was arrived , and she wished to be only alive to love she wished to forget the anguish she felt whenever she thought of her child . 
They took a ready furnished lodging together , for she was above disguise Jemima insisting on being considered as her house keeper , and to receive the customary stipend . 
On no other terms would she remain with her friend . 
Darnford was indefatigable in tracing the mysterious circumstances of his confinement . 
The cause was simply , that a relation , a very distant one , to whom he was heir , had died intestate , leaving a considerable fortune . 
Darnford , who still pursued his enquiries , at last discovered that they had fixed their place of refuge at Paris . 
The indignation Maria felt cannot be explained she repented of the forbearance she had exercised in giving up the notes . 
She visited some ladies with whom she had formerly been intimate , but was refused admittance and at the opera , or Ranelagh , they could not recollect her . 
Had she remained with her husband , practicing insincerity , and neglecting her child to manage an intrigue , she would still have been visited and respected . 
And Brutus is an honourable man ! said Mark Antony with equal sincerity . 
The name in the manuscript is by mistake written Caesar . 
Poets have imagined scenes of bliss but , sencing out sorrow , all the extatic emotions of the Soul , and even its grandeur , seem to be equally excluded . 
The heart is often shut by romance against social pleasure and , fostering a sickly sensibility , grows callous to the soft touches of humanity . 
To part with Darnford was indeed cruel . 
CHAPTER SUCH was her state of mind when the dogs of law were let loose on her . 
Maria took the task of conducting Darnford's defence upon herself . 
She instructed his counsel to plead guilty to the charge of adultery but to deny that of seduction . 
But that she left his house without assigning any cause . 
By some means the defendant enabled her to make her escape , and they had lived together , in despite of all sense of order and decorum . 
It was of the most atrocious kind , as decency was set at defiance , and respect for reputation , which shows internal compunction , utterly disregarded . 
A strong sense of injustice had silenced every motion , which a mixture of true and false delicacy might otherwise have excited in Maria's bosom . 
She only felt in earnest to insist on the privilege of her nature . 
The sarcasms of society , and the condemnations of a mistaken world , were nothing to her , compared with acting contrary to those feelings which were the foundation of her principles . 
She therefore eagerly put herself forward , instead of desiring to be absent , on this memorable occasion . 
Whether the duties of the state are reciprocal , I mean not to discuss but I can prove repeated infidelities which I overlooked or pardoned . 
Witnesses are not wanting to establish these facts . 
I at present maintain the child of a maid servant , sworn to him , and born after our marriage . 
With proper restrictions however , I revere the institution which fraternizes the world . 
I will not enlarge on those provocations which only the individual can estimate but will bring forward such charges only , the truth of which is an insult upon humanity . 
On the discovery of this act of atrocity , I determined to leave him , and in the most decided manner , for ever . 
I consider all obligations as made void by his conduct and hold , that schisms which proceed from want of principles , can never be healed . 
He received a fortune with me to the amount of five thousand pounds . 
On the death of my uncle , convinced that I could provide for my child , I destroyed the settlement of that fortune . 
I required none of my property to be returned to me , nor shall enumerate the sums extorted from me during six years that we lived together . 
I pardon my oppressor bitterly as I lament the loss of my child , torn from me in the most violent manner . 
To force me to give my fortune , I was imprisoned yes in a private mad house . 
There , in the heart of misery , I met the man charged with seducing me . 
We became attached I deemed , and ever shall deem , myself free . 
The death of my babe dissolved the only tie which subsisted between me and my , what is termed , lawful husband . 
I protest equally against any charge being brought to criminate the man , whom I consider as my husband . 
Mr. Darnford found me a forlorn and oppressed woman , and promised the protection women in the present state of society want . 
But the man who now claims me was he deprived of my society by this conduct ? The question is an insult to common sense , considering where Mr. Darnford met me . 
I did not put myself into a situation to justify a charge of adultery , till I had , from conviction , shaken off the fetters which bound me to Mr. Venables . 
While I lived with him , I defy the voice of calumny to sully what is termed the fair fame of woman . 
From that moment I believed myself , in the sight of heaven , free and no power on earth shall force me to renounce my resolution . 
The judge , in summing up the evidence , alluded to the fallacy of letting women plead their feelings , as an excuse for the violation of the marriage vow . 
For his part , he had always determined to oppose all innovation , and the newfangled notions which incroached on the good old rules of conduct . 
As to the charges brought against the husband , they were vague , supported by no witnesses , excepting that of imprisonment in a private madhouse . 
The proofs of an insanity in the family , might render that however a prudent measure and indeed the conduct of the lady did not appear that of a person of sane mind . 
CONCLUSION BY THE EDITOR i . 
VERY FEW hints exist respecting the plan of the remainder of the work . 
I find only two detached sentences , and some scattered heads for the continuation of the story . 
I. Darnford's letters were affectionate but circumstances occasioned delays , and the miscarriage of some letters rendered the reception of wished for answers doubtful his return was necessary to calm Maria's mind . 
As Darnford had informed her that his business was settled , his delaying to return seemed extraordinary but love to excess , excludes fear or suspicion . 
The scattered heads for the continuation of the story , are as follow . 
To understand these minutes , it is necessary the reader should consider each of them as setting out from the same point in the story , viz . 
the point to which it is brought down in the preceding chapter . 
A prosecution for adultery commenced Trial Darnford sets out for France Letters Once more pregnant He returns Mysterious behaviour Visit Expectation Discovery Interview Consequence . 
Divorced by her husband Her lover unfaithful Pregnancy Miscarriage Suicide . 
The following passage appears in some respects to deviate from the preceding hints . 
It is superscribed THE END . 
Her murdered child again appeared to her , mourning for the babe of which she was the tomb . 
, 'this cannot last long and what is a little bodily pain to the pangs I have endured ? A new vision swam before her . 
Jemima seemed to enter leading a little creature , that , with tottering footsteps , approached the bed . 
The voice of Jemima sounding as at a distance , called her she tried to listen , to speak , to look ! 'Behold your child ! exclaimed Jemima . 
Maria started off the bed , and fainted . 
When she was restored to life , Jemima addressed her with great solemnity led me to suspect , that your husband and brother had deceived you , and secreted the child . 
But , in reality , these hints , simple as they are , are pregnant with passion and distress . 
This view restrained her fancy . 
