Margaret Ogilvy by her Son J. M. Barrie . 
Scanned and proofed by David Price , email ccx coventry . 
on one of the chairs , or sitting on them regally , or withdrawing and re opening the door suddenly to take the six by surprise . 
Thus was one little bit of her revealed to me at once I wonder if I took note of it . 
Neighbours came in to see the boy and the chairs . 
It is all guess work for six years , and she whom I see in them is the woman who came suddenly into view when they were at an end . 
Her timid lips I have said , but they were not timid then , and when I knew her the timid lips had come . 
The soft face they say the face was not so soft then . 
We did not see her becoming little then , nor sharply turn our heads when she said wonderingly how small her arms had grown . 
And that is the beginning and end of literature . 
Those eyes that I cannot see until I was six years old have guided me through life , and I pray God they may remain my only earthly judge to the last . 
She had a son who was far away at school . 
I remember very little about him , only that he was a merry faced boy who ran like a squirrel up a tree and shook the cherries into my lap . 
But I speak from hearsay no longer I knew my mother for ever now . 
That is how she got her soft face and her pathetic ways and her large charity , and why other mothers ran to her when they had lost a child . 
'Dinna greet , poor Janet , she would say to them and they would answer , 'Ah , Margaret , but you're greeting yoursel . 
Margaret Ogilvy had been her maiden name , and after the Scotch custom she was still Margaret Ogilvy to her old friends . 
Margaret Ogilvy I loved to name her . 
Often when I was a boy , 'Margaret Ogilvy , are you there ? I would call up the stair . 
She was always delicate from that hour , and for many months she was very ill . 
I have heard that the first thing she expressed a wish to see was the christening robe , and she looked long at it and then turned her face to the wall . 
Hundreds of other children were christened in it also , such robes being then a rare possession , and the lending of ours among my mother's glories . 
And she had not made it herself , which was the most wonderful thing about it to me , for she seemed to have made all other things . 
In the fashion ! I must come back to this . 
Never was a woman with such an eye for it . 
She had no fashion plates she did not need them . 
they had but to pass our window once , and the scalp , so to speak , was in my mother's hands . 
Observe her rushing , scissors in hand , thread in mouth , to the drawers where her daughters' Sabbath clothes were kept . 
If you were the minister's wife that day or the banker's daughters you would have got a shock . 
But she bought the christening robe , and when I used to ask why , she would beam and look conscious , and say she wanted to be extravagant once . 
My mother lay in bed with the christening robe beside her , and I peeped in many times at the door and then went to the stair and sat on it and sobbed . 
I went ben excitedly , but the room was dark , and when I heard the door shut and no sound come from the bed I was afraid , and I stood still . 
I thought it was the dead boy she was speaking to , and I said in a little lonely voice , 'No , it's no him , it's just me . 
Then I heard a cry , and my mother turned in bed , and though it was dark I knew that she was holding out her arms . 
Thus I was deprived of some of my glory , and I remember once only making her laugh before witnesses . 
I kept a record of her laughs on a piece of paper , a stroke for each , and it was my custom to show this proudly to the doctor every morning . 
It was doubtless that same sister who told me not to sulk when my mother lay thinking of him , but to try instead to get her to talk about him . 
to become so like him that even my mother should not see the difference , and many and artful were the questions I put to that end . 
Then I practised in secret , but after a whole week had passed I was still rather like myself . 
There was always something of the child in her , and her laugh was its voice , as eloquent of the past to me as was the christening robe to her . 
But I had not made her forget the bit of her that was dead in those nine and twenty years he was not removed one day farther from her . 
She read many times the book in which it is printed , but when she came to that chapter she would put her hands to her heart or even over her ears . 
Before I reached my tenth year a giant entered my native place in the night , and we woke to find him in possession . 
Rather are their working years too few now , not because they will it so but because it is with youth that the power looms must be fed . 
Well , this teaches them to make provision , and they have the means as they never had before . 
So much of what is great in Scotland has sprung from the closeness of the family ties it is there I sometimes fear that my country is being struck . 
I have even seen them given as my reason for writing of a past time , and in that at least there is no truth . 
Such a grip has her memory of her girlhood had upon me since I was a boy of six . 
At last he draws nigh , hoasting . 
I see her frocks lengthening , though they were never very short , and the games given reluctantly up . 
She had discovered that work is the best fun after all , and I learned it in time , but have my lapses , and so had she . 
She never said , indeed she denied strenuously , that she had led the men a dance , but again the smile returned , and came between us and full belief . 
Yes , she had her little vanities when she got the Mizpah ring she did carry that finger in such a way that the most reluctant must see . 
A reviewer said she acted thus , not because she cared how she looked , but for the sake of her son . 
This , I remember , amused my mother very much . 
I have seen many weary on dings of snow , but the one I seem to recollect best occurred nearly twenty years before I was born . 
That would be the end , I suppose , if it were a story , but to my mother it was only another beginning , and not the last . 
, and anon it is a girl who is in the cradle , and then another girl already a tragic figure to those who know the end . 
'I am sorrow to say , her father writes in an old letter now before me , 'that Margaret is in a state that she was never so bad before in this world . 
Till Wednesday night she was in as poor a condition as you could think of to be alive . 
However , after bleeding , leeching , etc . 
I can give you no adequate view of what my feelings are , indeed they are a burden too heavy for me and I cannot describe them . 
O for more faith in His supporting grace in this hour of trial . 
Then she is 'on the mend , she may 'thole thro'' if they take great care of her , 'which we will be forward to do . 
The fourth child dies when but a few weeks old , and the next at two years . 
Now with deep sorrow I must tell you that yesterday I assisted in laying her dear remains in the lonely grave . 
She died at o'clock on Wednesday evening , I suppose by the time you had got the letter . 
did not think it was croup till late on Tuesday night , and all that Medical aid could prescribe was done , but the Dr . 
I cannot well describe my feelings on the occasion . 
I am much afraid that she will not soon if ever get over this trial . 
food since Monday night , and till some time is elapsed we cannot say how she may be . 
There is none that is not a Parent themselves that can fully sympathise with one in such a state . 
David is much affected also , but it is not so well known on him , and the younger branches of the family are affected but it will be only momentary . 
But alas in all this vast ado , there is only the sorrow of the world which worketh death . 
O how gladdening would it be if we were in as great bitterness for sin as for the loss of a first born . 
It is strange that the living lay the things so little to heart until they have to engage in that war where there is no discharge . 
O that my head were waters and mine eyes a fountain of tears that I might weep day and night for my own and others' stupidity in this great matter . 
O for grace to do every day work in its proper time and to live above the tempting cheating train of earthly things . 
The rest of the family are moderately well . 
I have been for some days worse than I have been for months past , but I may soon get better . 
I have no other news to send you , and as little heart for them . 
I hope you will take the earliest opportunity of writing that you can , and be particular as regards Margaret , for she requires consolation . 
He died exactly a week after writing this letter , but my mother was to live for another forty four years . 
She told me everything , and so my memories of our little red town are coloured by her memories . 
One of her delights was to learn from me scraps of Horace , and then bring them into her conversation with 'colleged men . 
Yet there were times when she grudged him to them as the day when he returned victorious . 
Then what was before her eyes was not the son coming marching home again but an old woman peering for him round the window curtain and trying not to look uplifted . 
The newspaper reports would be about the son , but my mother's comment was 'She's a proud woman this night . 
, but on discovering that they were nights when we had paid for knights we sent that volume packing , and I have curled my lips at it ever since . 
I read , standing at the counter , most of the other books in the shop , which is perhaps the most exquisite way of reading . 
And I took in a magazine called 'Sunshine , the most delicious periodical , I am sure , of any day . 
This romantic little creature took such hold of my imagination that I cannot eat water cress even now without emotion . 
Authorship seemed , like her bannock baking , to consist of running between two points . 
on black chargers , and round the first corner a lady selling water cress . 
where he stabbed us both was in writing that he considered me a 'clever lady . 
I replied stiffly that I was a gentleman , and since then I have kept that manuscript concealed . 
I looked through it lately , and , oh , but it is dull ! I defy any one to read it . 
The malignancy of publishers , however , could not turn me back . 
From the day on which I first tasted blood in the garret my mind was made up there could be no hum dreadful drum profession for me literature was my game . 
It was not highly thought of by those who wished me well . 
I had one person only on my side , an old tailor , one of the fullest men I have known , and quite the best talker . 
This man had heard of my set of photographs of the poets and asked for a sight of them , which led to our first meeting . 
Those park seats were the monster's glaring eyes to her , and as I go by them now she is nearer to me than when I am in any other part of London . 
to the place where you buy sealskin coats for middling old ladies . 
But ere the laugh was done the park would come through the map like a blot . 
'If you could only be sure of as much as would keep body and soul together , my mother would say with a sigh . 
'With something over , mother , to send to you . 
'You couldna expect that at the start . 
Queen Mary seems to have been luring me to my undoing ever since I saw Holyrood , and I have a horrid fear that I may write that novel yet . 
That anything could be written about my native place never struck me . 
, and she would add dolefully , 'But I doubt I'm the only woman you know well . 
'Then I must make you my heroine , I said lightly . 
'A gey auld farrant like heroine ! she said , and we both laughed at the notion so little did we read the future . 
on an English provincial paper . 
Leaders ! How were they written ? what were they about ? My mother was already sitting triumphant among my socks , and I durst not let her see me quaking . 
I retired to ponder , and presently she came to me with the daily paper . 
Which were the leaders ? she wanted to know , so evidently I could get no help from her . 
Had she any more newspapers ? I asked , and after rummaging , she produced a few with which her boxes had been lined . 
Others , very dusty , came from beneath carpets , and lastly a sooty bundle was dragged down the chimney . 
Surrounded by these I sat down , and studied how to become a journalist . 
A boy who found that a knife had been put into his pocket in the night could not have been more surprised . 
For her , as for me , that newspaper was soon to have the face of a friend . 
If London folk reads them we're done for . 
And I was sounded as to the advisability of sending him a present of a lippie of shortbread , which was to be her crafty way of getting round him . 
I was now able to see my mother again , and the park seats no longer loomed so prominent in our map of London . 
Still , there they were , and it was with an effort that she summoned up courage to let me go . 
'I'm glad of that , but maybe he wouldna like you when he saw you . 
Can you deny it , you vain woman ? My mother would deny it vigorously . 
'How would you set about it ? Then my mother would begin to laugh . 
'I would find out first if he had a family , and then I would say they were the finest family in London . 
'Not he ! 'You don't understand that what imposes on common folk would never hoodwink an editor . 
'That's where you are wrong . 
Gentle or simple , stupid or clever , the men are all alike in the hands of a woman that flatters them . 
'Ah , I'm sure there are better ways of getting round an editor than that . 
'I daresay there are , my mother would say with conviction , 'but if you try that plan you will never need to try another . 
'How artful you are , mother you with your soft face ! Do you not think shame ? 'Pooh ! says my mother brazenly . 
'I can see the reason why you are so popular with men . 
'Ay , you can see it , but they never will . 
'Well , how would you dress yourself if you were going to that editor's office ? 'Of course I would wear my silk and my Sabbath bonnet . 
'It is you who are shortsighted now , mother . 
But my mother would shake her head at this , and reply almost hotly , 'I tell you if I ever go into that man's office , I go in silk . 
and my pen refuse to write for evermore . 
, it also scared her . 
by his way of thinking that the others would pass as they were , while he sent these back and asked me to make them better . 
Here again she came to my aid . 
Tell him my charge for this important news is two pounds ten . 
'Ay , but though we're doing well , it's no' the same as if they were a book with your name on it . 
So the ambitious woman would say with a sigh , and I did my best to turn the Auld Licht sketches into a book with my name on it . 
I was willing to present it to them , but they would have it in no guise there seemed to be a blight on everything that was Scotch . 
And at last publishers , sufficiently daring and far more than sufficiently generous , were found for us by a dear friend , who made one woman very 'uplifted . 
He also was an editor , and had as large a part in making me a writer of books as the other in determining what the books should be about . 
Now that I was an author I must get into a club . 
You think it's a lot o' siller ? Oh no , you're mista'en it's nothing ava . 
What use are they ? Oh , they're terrible useful . 
You see it doesna do for a man in London to eat his dinner in his lodgings . 
Other men shake their heads at him . 
He maun away to his club if he is to be respected . 
Even the potatoes daurna look like potatoes . 
My wisest policy was to remain downstairs when these withering blasts were blowing , but probably I went up in self defence . 
'I never saw you so pugnacious before , mother . 
'Oh , she would reply promptly , 'you canna expect me to be sharp in the uptake when I am no' a member of a club . 
'But the difficulty is in becoming a member . 
They are very particular about whom they elect , and I daresay I shall not get in . 
, but I think I can tell you to make your mind easy on that head . 
You'll get in , I'se uphaud and your thirty pounds will get in , too . 
'If I get in it will be because the editor is supporting me . 
'It's the first ill thing I ever heard of him . 
'What bare faced scoundrels ? 'Them that have the club . 
'But all the members have the club between them . 
'Havers ! I'm no' to be catched with chaff . 
'But don't you believe me ? 'I believe they've filled your head with their stories till you swallow whatever they tell you . 
If the place belongs to the members , why do they have to pay thirty pounds ? 'To keep it going . 
'They dinna have to pay for their dinners , then ? 'Oh yes , they have to pay extra for dinner . 
'And a gey black price , I'm thinking . 
'Well , five or six shillings . 
'Is that all ? Losh , it's nothing , I wonder they dinna raise the price . 
Nevertheless my mother was of a sex that scorned prejudice , and , dropping sarcasm , she would at times cross examine me as if her mind was not yet made up . 
'Tell me this , if you were to fall ill , would you be paid a weekly allowance out of the club ? No , it was not that kind of club . 
Well , I am just trying to find out what kind of club it is . 
Do you get anything out of it for accidents ? Not a penny . 
'Anything at New Year's time ? Not so much as a goose . 
'Is there any one mortal thing you get free out of that club ? There was not one mortal thing . 
'And thirty pounds is what you pay for this ? If the committee elected me . 
'How many are in the committee ? About a dozen , I thought . 
'A dozen ! Ay , ay , that makes two pound ten apiece . 
When I was elected I thought it wisdom to send my sister upstairs with the news . 
My mother was ironing , and made no comment , unless with the iron , which I could hear rattling more violently in its box . 
Presently I heard her laughing at me undoubtedly , but she had recovered control over her face before she came downstairs to congratulate me sarcastically . 
This was grand news , she said without a twinkle , and I must write and thank the committee , the noble critturs . 
I saw behind her mask , and maintained a dignified silence , but she would have another shot at me . 
'And tell them , she said from the door , 'you were doubtful of being elected , but your auld mother had aye a mighty confidence they would snick you in . 
Money , you see , meant so much to her , though even at her poorest she was the most cheerful giver . 
So often in those days she went down suddenly upon her knees we would come upon her thus , and go away noiselessly . 
After her death I found that she had preserved in a little box , with a photograph of me as a child , the envelopes which had contained my first cheques . 
There was a little ribbon round them . 
It should not be difficult , for she repeated herself from day to day and yet did it with a quaint unreasonableness that was ever yielding fresh delight . 
Our love for her was such that we could easily tell what she would do in given circumstances , but she had always a new way of doing it . 
Well , with break of day she wakes and sits up in bed and is standing in the middle of the room . 
that these three actions must be considered as one she is on the floor before you have time to count them . 
She has strict orders not to rise until her fire is lit , and having broken them there is a demure elation on her face . 
The question is what to do before she is caught and hurried to bed again . 
Her fingers are tingling to prepare the breakfast she would dearly love to black lead the grate , but that might rouse her daughter from whose side she has slipped so cunningly . 
She catches sight of the screen at the foot of the bed , and immediately her soft face becomes very determined . 
To guard her from draughts the screen had been brought here from the lordly east room , where it was of no use whatever . 
The screen is an unwieldy thing , but still as a mouse she carries it , and they are well under weigh when it strikes against the gas bracket in the passage . 
Next moment a reproachful hand arrests her . 
She is challenged with being out of bed , she denies it standing in the passage . 
and join them anxiously so often has my mother been taken ill in the night that the slightest sound from her room rouses the house . 
She is in bed again , looking as if she had never been out of it , but I know her and listen sternly to the tale of her misdoings . 
to lie there and watch that beautiful screen being spoilt . 
, or that if it has not , something is wrong with the clock . 
Next moment she is captured on her way downstairs to wind up the clock . 
is a shawl , not placed there by her own hands , and on her head a delicious mutch . 
It is mine now , and to me the black threads with which she stitched it are as part of the contents . 
Other books she read in the ordinary manner , but this one differently , her lips moving with each word as if she were reading aloud , and her face very solemn . 
The Testament lies open on her lap long after she has ceased to read , and the expression of her face has not changed . 
I have seen her reading other books early in the day but never without a guilty look on her face , for she thought reading was scarce respectable until night had come . 
, or she is under the bed searching for band boxes and asking sternly where we have put that bonnet . 
When in London I had to hear daily what she was eating , and perhaps she had refused all dishes until they produced the pen and ink . 
These were flourished before her , and then she would say with a sigh , 'Tell him I am to eat an egg . 
But they were not so easily deceived they waited , pen in hand , until the egg was eaten . 
She never 'went for a walk' in her life . 
That kissing of the hand was the one English custom she had learned . 
In an hour or so I return , and perhaps find her in bed , according to promise , but still I am suspicious . 
The way to her detection is circuitous . 
'I'll need to be rising now , she says , with a yawn that may be genuine . 
'How long have you been in bed ? 'You saw me go . 
'And then I saw you at the window . 
Did you go straight back to bed ? 'Surely I had that much sense . 
'The truth ! 'I might have taken a look at the clock first . 
'It is a terrible thing to have a mother who prevaricates . 
Have you been lying down ever since I left ? 'Thereabout . 
'What does that mean exactly ? 'Off and on . 
'Have you been to the garret ? 'What should I do in the garret ? 'But have you ? 'I might just have looked up the garret stair . 
'You have been redding up the garret again ! 'Not what you could call a redd up . 
'O , woman , woman , I believe you have not been in bed at all ! 'You see me in it . 
'My opinion is that you jumped into bed when you heard me open the door . 
'Well , then , when you heard me at the gate ? 'It might have been when I heard you at the gate . 
among women novelists , or if it be a Carlyle , and we move softly , she will read , entranced , for hours . 
he had asked her to be his wife . 
He was very nice , and if I remember aright , saw her to her journey's end , though he had intended to alight at some half way place . 
I call this an adventure , and I am sure it seemed to my mother to be the most touching and memorable adventure that can come into a woman's life . 
But there were times , she held , when Carlyle must have made his wife a glorious woman . 
'As when ? I might inquire . 
'Pooh ! said my mother , 'a man's roar is neither here nor there . 
But her verdict as a whole was , 'I would rather have been his mother than his wife . 
So we have got her into her chair with the Carlyles , and all is well . 
Furthermore , 'to mak siccar , my father has taken the opposite side of the fireplace and is deep in the latest five columns of Gladstone , who is his Carlyle . 
, and she gratefully gave up reading 'leaders' the day I ceased to write them . 
And then , with a motherly smile , she would leave them to gorge on him . 
But in the idolising of Gladstone she recognised , nevertheless , a certain inevitability , and would no more have tried to contend with it than to sweep a shadow off the floor . 
Gladstone was , and there was an end of it in her practical philosophy . 
Nor did she accept him coldly like a true woman she sympathised with those who suffered severely , and they knew it and took counsel of her in the hour of need . 
It was all such plain sailing for him , she pointed out he did not like this Home Rule , and therefore he must vote against it . 
She put it pitiful clear , he replied with a groan . 
But she was like another woman to him when he appeared before her on his way to the polling booth . 
A watery Sabbath means a doleful day , and 'A watery Sabbath it is , he replied with feeling . 
A silence followed , broken only by the click of the wires . 
, 'Away with you , and vote for Gladstone's man ! He jumped up and made off without a word , but from the east window we watched him strutting down the brae . 
I laughed , but she said , 'I'm no sure that it's a laughing matter , and afterwards , 'I would have liked fine to be that Gladstone's mother . 
It is nine o'clock now , a quarter past nine , half past nine all the same moment to me , for I am at a sentence that will not write . 
His supper will be completely spoilt . 
'Oh , that weary writing ! 'I can do no more , mother , so you must come down and stop him . 
'I have no power over him , my mother says , but she rises smiling , and presently she is opening my door . 
'In five minutes ! I cry , but when I see that it is she I rise and put my arm round her . 
'Poor thing , she says to it , 'and you would have liked so fine to be printed ! and she puts her hand over my desk to prevent my writing more . 
'In the last five minutes , I begin , 'one can often do more than in the first hour . 
'Many a time I've said it in my young days , she says slowly . 
I hear such a little cry from near the door . 
So my mother and I go up the stair together . 
'We have changed places , she says 'that was just how I used to help you up , but I'm the bairn now . 
She brings out the Testament again it was always lying within reach it is the lock of hair she left me when she died . 
And when she has read for a long time she 'gives me a look , as we say in the north , and I go out , to leave her alone with God . 
She had been but a child when her mother died , and so she fell early into the way of saying her prayers with no earthly listener . 
Often and often I have found her on her knees , but I always went softly away , closing the door . 
CHAPTER VI HER MAID OF ALL WORK And sometimes I was her maid of all work . 
It is early morn , and my mother has come noiselessly into my room . 
I know it is she , though my eyes are shut , and I am only half awake . 
But she is speaking to herself . 
'I'm sweer to waken him I doubt he was working late oh , that weary writing no , I maunna waken him . 
She is wringing her hands . 
'What is wrong ? I cry , but I know before she answers . 
'And she winna let me go down the stair to make a cup of tea for her , she groans . 
'I will soon make the tea , mother . 
'Will you ? she says eagerly . 
It is what she has come to me for , but 'It is a pity to rouse you , she says . 
'It won't be the first time , mother , since I was an author . 
'More like the fiftieth ! she says almost gleefully , so I have begun well , for to keep up her spirits is the great thing to day . 
I take in the bread , looking so sternly at him that he dare not smile . 
Furious knocking in a remote part . 
This means that the author is in the coal cellar . 
Anon I carry two breakfasts upstairs in triumph . 
I enter the bedroom like no mere humdrum son , but after the manner of the Glasgow waiter . 
I must say more about him . 
She knew how I was exulting in having her there , so would not say a word to damp me , but I craftily drew it out of her . 
No , she was very comfortable , and the house was grand beyond speech , but but where was he ? he had not been very hearty . 
But what she most resented was the waiter with his swagger black suit and short quick steps and the 'towel' over his arm . 
, when we spoke to each other he affected not to hear , we might laugh but this uppish fellow would not join in . 
We retired , crushed , and he had the final impudence to open the door for us . 
But of this I take no notice , for my object is to fire her with the spirit of the game , so that she eats unwittingly . 
Perhaps I have been at work for half an hour when I hear movements overhead . 
One or other of them is wondering why the house is so quiet . 
and look suspiciously beneath the coverlet . 
The kitchen is now speckless , not an unwashed platter in sight , unless you look beneath the table . 
I feel that I have earned time for an hour's writing at last , and at it I go with vigour . 
She has not exactly left her room , she gives me to understand but suddenly a conviction had come to her that I was writing without a warm mat at my feet . 
She carries one in her hands . 
new chapters are as easy to turn out as new bannocks . 
I bow with him , eat with him , and gnaw my moustache with him . 
If the character be a lady with an exquisite laugh , I suddenly terrify you by laughing exquisitely . 
, but now and again she would use a word that was new to me , or I might hear one of her contemporaries use it . 
Now is my opportunity to angle for its meaning . 
she falls into the trap , and the words explain themselves in her replies . 
Or maybe to day she sees whither I am leading her , and such is her sensitiveness that she is quite hurt . 
, and her reproachful eyes but now I am on the arm of her chair , and we have made it up . 
I am off for my afternoon walk , and she has promised to bar the door behind me and open it to none . 
When I return , well , the door is still barred , but she is looking both furtive and elated . 
I should say that she is burning to tell me something , but cannot tell it without exposing herself . 
Has she opened the door , and if so , why ? I don't ask , but I watch . 
It is she who is sly now . 
'Have you been in the east room since you came in ? she asks , with apparent indifference . 
'No why do you ask ? 'Oh , I just thought you might have looked in . 
'Is there anything new there ? 'I dinna say there is , but but just go and see . 
'There can't be anything new if you kept the door barred , I say cleverly . 
This crushes her for a moment but her eagerness that I should see is greater than her fear . 
I set off for the east room , and she follows , affecting humility , but with triumph in her eye . 
'A going about body was selling them in a cart , my mother begins , and what followed presents itself to my eyes before she can utter another word . 
Ten minutes at the least did she stand at the door argy bargying with that man . 
But it would be cruelty to scold a woman so uplifted . 
'Fifteen shillings he wanted , she cries , 'but what do you think I beat him down to ? 'Seven and sixpence ? She claps her hands with delight . 
'Four shillings , as I'm a living woman ! she crows never was a woman fonder of a bargain . 
'And the man said it cost himself five shillings , my mother continues exultantly . 
You would have thought her the hardest person had not a knock on the wall summoned us about this time to my sister's side . 
'Four shillings to a penny ! says my mother . 
'I daresay , says my sister 'but after you paid him the money I heard you in the little bedroom press . 
What were you doing there ? My mother winces . 
'I may have given him a present of an old topcoat , she falters . 
But that was after I made the bargain . 
'Were there bairns in the cart ? 'There might have been a bit lassie in the cart . 
What did you give her ? I heard you in the pantry . 
'Four shillings was what I got that chair for , replies my mother firmly . 
If I don't interfere there will be a coldness between them for at least a minute . 
'There is blood on your finger , I say to my mother . 
'So there is , she says , concealing her hand . 
'Blood ! exclaims my sister anxiously , and then with a cry of triumph , 'I warrant it's jelly . 
The last thing I do as maid of all work is to lug upstairs the clothes basket which has just arrived with the mangling . 
I may leave her now with her sheets and collars and napkins and fronts . 
Indeed , she probably orders me to go . 
I hope I may not be disturbed , for to night I must make my hero say 'Darling , and it needs both privacy and concentration . 
that I have sat down to a love chapter . 
, but though the public will probably read the word without blinking , it went off in my hands with a bang . 
will write a love chapter and then go out , quite coolly , to dinner , but such goings on are contrary to the Scotch nature even the great novelists dared not . 
Conceive Mr. Stevenson left alone with a hero , a heroine , and a proposal impending . 
So I have yoked to mine when , enter my mother , looking wistful . 
'I suppose you are terrible thrang , she says . 
'Well , I am rather busy , but what is it you want me to do ? 'It would be a shame to ask you . 
'I am so terrified they may be filed . 
'You want me to ? 'If you would just come up , and help me to fold the sheets ! The sheets are folded and I return to Albert . 
'Then what did you grate the carrots on ? asks the voice , and the door handle is shaken just as I shake Albert . 
I am wondering whether I should confess or brazen it out , when I hear my sister going hurriedly upstairs . 
I have a presentiment that she has gone to talk about me , and I basely open my door and listen . 
'Just look at that , mother ! 'Is it a dish cloth ? 'That's what it is now . 
'Losh behears ! it's one of the new table napkins . 
'Woe's me ! That is what comes of his not letting me budge from this room . 
O , it is a watery Sabbath when men take to doing women's work ! 'It defies the face of clay , mother , to fathom what makes him so senseless . 
'Oh , it's that weary writing . 
'And the worst of it is he will talk to morrow as if he had done wonders . 
'That's the way with the whole clanjam fray of them . 
'Yes , but as usual you will humour him , mother . 
'Oh , well , it pleases him , you see , says my mother , 'and we can have our laugh when his door's shut . 
'He is most terribly handless . 
'He is all that , but , poor soul , he does his best . 
She said 'That Stevenson man' with a sneer , and , it was never easy to her to sneer . 
He knew her opinion of him , and would write , 'My ears tingled yesterday I sair doubt she has been miscalling me again . 
I remember the day she found it out , which was not , however , the day she admitted it . 
'Not writing ! I echoed , no , I was not writing , I saw no use in ever trying to write again . 
And down , I suppose , went my head once more . 
'I could never thole his books , said my mother immediately , and indeed vindictively . 
'You have not read any of them , I reminded her . 
'And never will , said she with spirit . 
And I have no doubt that she called him a dark character that very day . 
I would place it on her table so that it said good morning to her when she rose . 
She would frown , and carrying it downstairs , as if she had it in the tongs , replace it on its book shelf . 
I would wrap it up in the cover she had made for the latest Carlyle she would skin it contemptuously and again bring it down . 
I would hide her spectacles in it , and lay it on top of the clothes basket and prop it up invitingly open against her tea pot . 
And at last I got her , though I forget by which of many contrivances . 
What I recall vividly is a key hole view , to which another member of the family invited me . 
Some such conversation as this followed 'You have been sitting very quietly , mother . 
'I always sit quietly , I never do anything , I'm just a finished stocking . 
'Have you been reading ? 'Do I ever read at this time of day ? 'What is that in your lap ? 'Just my apron . 
'Is that a book beneath the apron ? 'It might be a book . 
'Go away with you to your work . 
But I lifted the apron . 
'Why , it's The Master of Ballantrae ! I exclaimed , shocked . 
'So it is ! said my mother , equally surprised . 
But I looked sternly at her , and perhaps she blushed . 
'Well what do you think not nearly equal to mine ? said I with humour . 
'Nothing like them , she said determinedly . 
'Not a bit , said I , though whether with a smile or a groan is immaterial they would have meant the same thing . 
'I'm no that kind , replied my mother . 
Much of the play no doubt I forget , but one incident I remember clearly . 
Mr. Stevenson's books are not for the shelf , they are for the hand even when you lay them down , let it be on the table for the next comer . 
Being the most sociable that man has penned in our time , they feel very lonely up there in a stately row . 
And the result is not dissimilar , for in another moment you two are at play . 
I wrote on doggedly , but could hear the whispering . 
'Am I to be a wall flower ? asked James Durie reproachfully . 
'Speak lower , replied my mother , with an uneasy look at me . 
'Pooh ! said James contemptuously , 'that kail runtle ! 'I winna have him miscalled , said my mother , frowning . 
, which made my mother sigh . 
Like the man he was , he followed up his advantage with a comparison that made me dip viciously . 
'A prettier sound that , said he , clanking his sword again , 'than the clack clack of your young friend's shuttle . 
'Whist ! cried my mother , who had seen me dip . 
'Then give me your arm , said James , lowering his voice . 
'I dare not , answered my mother . 
'He's so touchy about you . 
'How old are you ? he inquired . 
'You're gey an' pert ! cried my mother . 
'Are you seventy ? 'Off and on , she admitted . 
that I could catch only one remark . 
It came from James , and seems to show the tenor of their whisperings , for his words were , 'Easily enough , if you slip me beneath your shawl . 
That is what she did , and furthermore she left the room guiltily , muttering something about redding up the drawers . 
And then like a good mother she took up one of her son's books and read it most determinedly . 
'The Master of Ballantrae' is not the best . 
Conceive the glory , which was my mother's , of knowing from a trustworthy source that there are at least three better awaiting you on the same shelf . 
She did not know Alan Breck yet , and he was as anxious to step down as Mr. Bally himself . 
Not to know these gentlemen , what is it like ? It is like never having been in love . 
But they are in the house ! That is like knowing that you will fall in love to morrow morning . 
of its unworthiness , and that the reason she wanted to read the others was to get further proof . 
All this she made plain to me , eyeing me a little anxiously the while , and of course I accepted the explanation . 
Alan is the biggest child of them all , and I doubt not that she thought so , but curiously enough her views of him are among the things I have forgotten . 
'Those pirate stories are so uninteresting , I would reply without fear , for she was too engrossed to see through me . 
'Better without them , she replies promptly . 
'I wonder , mother , what it is about the man that so infatuates the public ? 'He takes no hold of me , she insists . 
'I would a hantle rather read your books . 
I offer obligingly to bring one of them to her , and now she looks at me suspiciously . 
that he had a way with him which was beyond her son . 
'Silk and sacking , that is what we are , she was informed , to which she would reply obstinately , 'Well , then , I prefer sacking . 
'But if he had been your son ? 'But he is not . 
'You wish he were ? 'I dinna deny but what I could have found room for him . 
That was when some podgy red sealed blue crossed letter arrived from Vailima , inviting me to journey thither . 
, and these letters terrified her . 
It was not the finger of Jim Hawkins she now saw beckoning me across the seas , it was John Silver , waving a crutch . 
'I have a letter from 'So I have heard . 
'Would you like to hear it ? 'No . 
'Can you not abide him ? 'I cauna thole him . 
'Is he a black ? 'He is all that . 
Well , Vailima was the one spot on earth I had any great craving to visit , but I think she always knew I would never leave her . 
Sometime , she said , she should like me to go , but not until she was laid away . 
'And how small I have grown this last winter . 
It canna be long now . 
No , I never thought of going , was never absent for a day from her without reluctance , and never walked so quickly as when I was going back . 
In the meantime that happened which put an end for ever to my scheme of travel . 
I shall never go up the Road of Loving Hearts now , on 'a wonderful clear night of stars , to meet the man coming toward me on a horse . 
It is still a wonderful clear night of stars , but the road is empty . 
So I never saw the dear king of us all . 
It is not a memory of one night only . 
She was wearing herself done . 
To have a strange woman in my mother's room you who are used to them cannot conceive what it meant to us . 
Then we must have a servant . 
This seemed only less horrible . 
My father turned up his sleeves and clutched the besom . 
I tossed aside my papers , and was ready to run the errands . 
He answered the door , I kept the fires going , he gave me a lesson in cooking , I showed him how to make beds , one of us wore an apron . 
It was not for long . 
I was led to my desk , the newspaper was put into my father's hand . 
'But a servant ! we cried , and would have fallen to again . 
I cannot say which of us felt it most . 
In London I was used to servants , and in moments of irritation would ring for them furiously , though doubtless my manner changed as they opened the door . 
From my earliest days I had seen servants . 
The manse had a servant , the bank had another one of their uses was to pounce upon , and carry away in stately manner , certain naughty boys who played with me . 
The banker did not seem really great to me , but his servant oh yes . 
For the lovers were really common men , until she gave them that glance over the shoulder which , I have noticed , is the fatal gift of servants . 
But even while I boasted I doubted . 
Reduced to life size she may have been but a woman who came in to help . 
I shall say no more about her , lest some one comes forward to prove that she went home at night . 
Never shall I forget my first servant . 
, and I had travelled by rail to visit a relative . 
My relative met me at the station , but I wasted no time in hoping I found him well . 
I did not even cross my legs for him , so eager was I to hear whether she was still there . 
But now when we could have servants for ourselves I shrank from the thought . 
It would not be the same house we should have to dissemble I saw myself speaking English the long day through . 
, and my sister was the most reserved of us all you might at times see a light through one of my chinks she was double shuttered . 
Not for other eyes those long vigils when , night about , we sat watching , nor the awful nights when we stood together , teeth clenched waiting it must be now . 
And it was not then her hand became cooler , her breathing more easy she smiled to us . 
I would not there had been one less though I could have written an immortal book for it . 
How my sister toiled to prevent a stranger's getting any footing in the house ! And how , with the same object , my mother strove to 'do for herself' once more . 
'Where is the pain ? 'I have no pain to speak of . 
'Is it at your heart ? 'No . 
'Is your breathing hurting you ? 'Not it . 
'Do you feel those stounds in your head again ? 'No , no , I tell you there is nothing the matter with me . 
'Have you a pain in your side ? 'Really , it's most provoking I canna put my hand to my side without your thinking I have a pain there . 
'You have a pain in your side ! 'I might have a pain in my side . 
'And you were trying to hide it ! Is it very painful ? 'It's it's no so bad but what I can bear it . 
I would take them separately , and press the one to yield for the sake of the other , but they saw so easily through my artifice . 
My mother might go bravely to my sister and say , 'I have been thinking it over , and I believe I would like a servant fine once we got used to her . 
'Did he tell you to say that ? asks my sister sharply . 
'I say it of my own free will . 
'He put you up to it , I am sure , and he told you not to let on that you did it to lighten my work . 
'Maybe he did , but I think we should get one . 
'She needna often be seen upstairs . 
'We'll set her to the walking every day . 
'There will be a many errands for her to run . 
We'll tell her to take her time over them . 
'Three times she shall go to the kirk every Sabbath , and we'll egg her on to attending the lectures in the hall . 
'She is sure to have friends in the town . 
We'll let her visit them often . 
'If she dares to come into your room , mother ! 'Mind this , every one of you , servant or no servant , I fold all the linen mysel . 
'She shall not get cleaning out the east room . 
'Nor putting my chest of drawers in order . 
'Nor tidying up my manuscripts . 
'I hope she's a reader , though . 
You could set her down with a book , and then close the door canny on her . 
I know not what we should have done without her . 
When it was known that I had begun another story my mother might ask what it was to be about this time . 
'Fine we can guess who it is about , my sister would say pointedly . 
'Maybe you can guess , but it is beyond me , says my mother , with the meekness of one who knows that she is a dull person . 
My sister scorned her at such times . 
'What woman is in all his books ? she would demand . 
'I'm sure I canna say , replies my mother determinedly . 
'I thought the women were different every time . 
'Mother , I wonder you can be so audacious ! Fine you know what woman I mean . 
'I won't give you the satisfaction of saying her name . 
But this I will say , it is high time he was keeping her out of his books . 
And then as usual my mother would give herself away unconsciously . 
Did I hear a faint sound from the other end of the bed ? Perhaps I did not I may only have been listening for it , but I falter and look up . 
My sister and I look sternly at my mother . 
'That's a way to behave ! cries my sister . 
'I cannot help it , my mother gasps . 
'And there's nothing to laugh at . 
'It's that woman , my mother explains unnecessarily . 
'Maybe she's not the woman you think her , I say , crushed . 
'Maybe not , says my mother doubtfully . 
'What was her name ? 'Her name , I answer with triumph , 'was not Margaret' but this makes her ripple again . 
'I have so many names nowadays , she mutters . 
'H'sh ! says my father , and the reading is resumed . 
Perhaps the woman who came along the path was of tall and majestic figure , which should have shown my mother that I had contrived to start my train without her this time . 
'What are you laughing at now ? says my sister severely . 
'Do you not hear that she was a tall , majestic woman ? 'It's the first time I ever heard it said of her , replies my mother . 
'Ke fy , havers ! 'The book says it . 
'There will be a many queer things in the book . 
What was she wearing ? I have not described her clothes . 
'That's a mistake , says my mother . 
The woman on the path was eighteen years of age , and of remarkable beauty . 
'That settles you , says my sister . 
'I was no beauty at eighteen , my mother admits , but here my father interferes unexpectedly . 
'There wasna your like in this countryside at eighteen , says he stoutly . 
'Pooh ! says she , well pleased . 
'Were you plain , then ? we ask . 
'Sal , she replies briskly , 'I was far from plain . 
'I assure you we're mounting in the world , I hear my mother murmur , but I hurry on without looking up . 
The lady lives in a house where there are footmen but the footmen have come on the scene too hurriedly . 
Often the readings had to end abruptly because her mirth brought on violent fits of coughing . 
Sometimes I read to my sister alone , and she assured me that she could not see my mother among the women this time . 
This she said to humour me . 
Some of the ways you say she had your mother had them just the same . 
Did you ever notice what an extraordinary woman your mother is ? Then would I seek my mother for comfort . 
'You see Jess is not really you , I begin inquiringly . 
'Oh no , she is another kind of woman altogether , my mother says , and then spoils the compliment by adding naively , 'She had but two rooms and I have six . 
'Without counting the pantry , and it's a great big pantry , she mutters . 
'I began with an up the stair , but I always had it in my mind I never mentioned it , but there it was to have the down the stair as well . 
Ay , and I've had it this many a year . 
'Still , there is no denying that Jess had the same ambition . 
'She had , but to her two roomed house she had to stick all her born days . 
Was that like me ? 'No , but she wanted 'She wanted , and I wanted , but I got and she didna . 
That's the difference betwixt her and me . 
'If that is all the difference , it is little credit I can claim for having created her . 
My mother sees that I need soothing . 
'That is far from being all the difference , she would say eagerly . 
'There's my silk , for instance . 
Though I say it mysel , there's not a better silk in the valley of Strathmore . 
Had Jess a silk of any kind not to speak of a silk like that ? 'Well , she had no silk , but you remember how she got that cloak with beads . 
That would have lowered her pride ! 'I don't believe that is what you would have done , mother . 
Then a sweeter expression would come into her face . 
'No , she would say reflectively , 'it's not . 
'What would you have done ? I think I know . 
'Yes , I am certain that is what you would have done . 
But oh , mother , that is just how Jess would have acted if some poorer woman than she had shown her a new shawl . 
'Maybe , but though I hadna boasted about my silk I would have wanted to do it . 
Let us try the story about the minister . 
My mother's first remark is decidedly damping . 
'N no , oh no . 
She had a very different life from mine . 
I never let on to a soul that she is me ! 'She was not meant to be you when I began . 
Mother , what a way you have of coming creeping in ! 'You should keep better watch on yourself . 
'Perhaps if I had called Margaret by some other name 'I should have seen through her just the same . 
As soon as I heard she was the mother I began to laugh . 
In some ways , though , she's no' so very like me . 
She was long in finding out about Babbie . 
I'se uphaud I should have been quicker . 
'Babbie , you see , kept close to the garden wall . 
'It's not the wall up at the manse that would have hidden her from me . 
'She came out in the dark . 
'I'm thinking she would have found me looking for her with a candle . 
'That would have put me on my mettle . 
But my new heroine is to be a child . 
What has madam to say to that ? A child ! Yes , she has something to say even to that . 
'This beats all ! are the words . 
We came very close to each other in those talks . 
'It is a queer thing , she would say softly , 'that near everything you write is about this bit place . 
You little expected that when you began . 
I mind well the time when it never entered your head , any more than mine , that you could write a page about our squares and wynds . 
I wonder how it has come about ? There was a time when I could not have answered that question , but that time had long passed . 
There is scarce a house in all my books where I have not seemed to see you a thousand times , bending over the fireplace or winding up the clock . 
'And now you've gone back to my father's time . 
It's more than sixty years since I carried his dinner in a flagon through the long parks of Kinnordy . 
and swinging the flagon round so quick that what was inside hadna time to fall out . 
I used to wear a magenta frock and a white pinafore . 
Did I ever tell you that ? 'Mother , the little girl in my story wears a magenta frock and a white pinafore . 
'You minded that ! But I'm thinking it wasna a lassie in a pinafore you saw in the long parks of Kinnordy , it was just a gey done auld woman . 
'It was a lassie in a pinafore , mother , when she was far away , but when she came near it was a gey done auld woman . 
'And a fell ugly one ! 'The most beautiful one I shall ever see . 
'I wonder to hear you say it . 
Look at my wrinkled auld face . 
'It is the sweetest face in all the world . 
'See how the rings drop off my poor wasted finger . 
'There will always be someone nigh , mother , to put them on again . 
'Ay , will there ! Well I know it . 
Do you mind how when you were but a bairn you used to say , Wait till I'm a man , and you'll never have a reason for greeting again ? I remembered . 
And when I lay on gey hard beds you said , When I'm a man you'll lie on feathers . 
You saw nothing bonny , you never heard of my setting my heart on anything , but what you flung up your head and cried , Wait till I'm a man . 
You fair shamed me before the neighbours , and yet I was windy , too . 
And now it has all come true like a dream . 
'Your hopes and ambitions were so simple , I would say , but she did not like that . 
'They werena that simple , she would answer , flushing . 
And she was not afraid , but still she lingered , and He waited , smiling . 
I never read any of that last book to her when it was finished she was too heavy with years to follow a story . 
On a day but three weeks before she died my father and I were called softly upstairs . 
My mother was sitting bolt upright , as she loved to sit , in her old chair by the window , with a manuscript in her hands . 
But she was looking about her without much understanding . 
'Just to please him , my sister whispered , and then in a low , trembling voice my mother began to read . 
I looked at my sister . 
Tears of woe were stealing down her face . 
Soon the reading became very slow and stopped . 
After a pause , 'There was something you were to say to him , my sister reminded her . 
'Luck , muttered a voice as from the dead , 'luck . 
She made an effort to read but could not . 
Suddenly she stooped and kissed the broad page . 
'Will that do instead ? she asked . 
Even then I knew it was a vain thing I did , but I am sure there was no morbidness in it . 
I knew that I might reach her too late I saw myself open a door where there was none to greet me , and go up the old stair into the old room . 
But what I did not foresee was that which happened . 
My mother's favourite paraphrase is one known in our house as David's because it was the last he learned to repeat . 
In those last weeks , though we did not know it , my sister was dying on her feet . 
'I'll never leave you , mother . 
'Fine I know you'll never leave me . 
I thought that cry so pathetic at the time , but I was not to know its full significance until it was only the echo of a cry . 
Looking at these two then it was to me as if my mother had set out for the new country , and my sister held her back . 
But I see with a clearer vision now . 
My mother liked it best from her . 
'I like them fine , but I canna do without you . 
My sister , so unselfish in all other things , had an unwearying passion for parading it before us . 
It was the rich reward of her life . 
Even my mother , who spoke so calmly to us of the coming time , could not mention it to her . 
And I made promises , but I suppose neither of us saw that she had already reaped . 
In the night my mother might waken and sit up in bed , confused by what she saw . 
While she slept , six decades or more had rolled back and she was again in her girlhood suddenly recalled from it she was dizzy , as with the rush of the years . 
So she had many preparations on her mind , and the morning was the time when she had any strength to carry them out . 
It had come true many times , but never again . 
The morning came when I was to go away . 
But always it was the same scene . 
Nor shall I say more of the silent figure in the background , always in the background , always near my mother . 
The last I saw of these two was from the gate . 
They were at the window which never passes from my eyes . 
That action was an epitome of my sister's life . 
I had been gone a fortnight when the telegram was put into my hands . 
I had got a letter from my sister , a few hours before , saying that all was well at home . 
The telegram said in five words that she had died suddenly the previous night . 
There was no mention of my mother , and I was three days' journey from home . 
The news I got on reaching London was this my mother did not understand that her daughter was dead , and they were waiting for me to tell her . 
I need not have been such a coward . 
This is how these two died for , after all , I was too late by twelve hours to see my mother alive . 
Their last night was almost gleeful . 
But this night was a last gift to my sister . 
How my sister must have been rejoicing . 
For some time afterwards their voices could be heard from downstairs , but what they talked of is not known . 
It had been so a thousand times . 
My sister awoke next morning with a headache . 
She had always been a martyr to headaches , but this one , like many another , seemed to be unusually severe . 
Nevertheless she rose and lit my mother's fire and brought up her breakfast , and then had to return to bed . 
The doctor was called , but she rapidly became unconscious . 
In this state she was removed from my mother's bed to another . 
It was discovered that she was suffering from an internal disease . 
No one had guessed it . 
In this unconsciousness she passed away , without knowing that she was leaving her mother . 
When I reached London I did hear how my sister died , but still I was afraid . 
I saw myself in my mother's room telling her why the door of the next room was locked , and I was afraid . 
God had done so much , and yet I could not look confidently to Him for the little that was left to do . 
'O ye of little faith ! These are the words I seem to hear my mother saying to me now , and she looks at me so sorrowfully . 
He did it very easily , and it has ceased to seem marvellous to me because it was so plainly His doing . 
My timid mother saw the one who was never to leave her carried unconscious from the room , and she did not break down . 
She who used to wring her hands if her daughter was gone for a moment never asked for her again , they were afraid to mention her name an awe fell upon them . 
But I am sure they need not have been so anxious . 
There are mysteries in life and death , but this was not one of them . 
A child can understand what happened . 
God said that my sister must come first , but He put His hand on my mother's eyes at that moment and she was altered . 
They told her that I was on my way home , and she said with a confident smile , 'He will come as quick as trains can bring him . 
That is my reward , that is what I have got for my books . 
Everything I could do for her in this life I have done since I was a boy I look back through the years and I cannot see the smallest thing left undone . 
They were buried together on my mother's seventy sixth birthday , though there had been three days between their deaths . 
On the last day , my mother insisted on rising from bed and going through the house . 
Once she said eagerly , 'Is that you , David ? and again she thought she heard her father knocking the snow off his boots . 
Her desire for that which she could not name came back to her , and at last they saw that what she wanted was the old christening robe . 
And yet it was a very commonplace name . 
They knew now that she was dying . 
She said good bye to them all , and at last turned her face to the side where her best beloved had lain , and for over an hour she prayed . 
They only caught the words now and again , and the last they heard were 'God' and 'love . 
I think God was smiling when He took her to Him , as He had so often smiled at her during those seventy six years . 
I saw her lying dead , and her face was beautiful and serene . 
But it was the other room I entered first , and it was by my sister's side that I fell upon my knees . 
The rounded completeness of a woman's life that was my mother's had not been for her . 
She would not have it at the price . 
'I'll never leave you , mother . 
'Fine I know you'll never leave me . 
The fierce joy of loving too much , it is a terrible thing . 
My sister's mouth was firmly closed , as if she had got her way . 
