The Mayor of Casterbridge by Thomas Hardy . 
The man was of fine figure , swarthy , and stern in aspect and he showed in profile a facial angle so slightly inclined as to be almost perpendicular . 
Virtually she walked the highway alone , save for the child she bore . 
The chief almost the only attraction of the young woman's face was its mobility . 
The first phase was the work of Nature , the second probably of civilization . 
That the man and woman were husband and wife , and the parents of the girl in arms there could be little doubt . 
No other than such relationship would have accounted for the atmosphere of stale familiarity which the trio carried along with them like a nimbus as they moved down the road . 
But as they approached the village sundry distant shouts and rattles reached their ears from some elevated spot in that direction , as yet screened from view by foliage . 
The reader promptly glanced up . 
Any trade doing here ? he asked phlegmatically , designating the village in his van by a wave of the broadsheet . 
And thinking the labourer did not understand him , he added , Anything in the hay trussing line ? The turnip hoer had already begun shaking his head . 
The pessimist still maintained a negative . 
Pulling down is more the nater of Weydon . 
There were five houses cleared away last year , and three this and the volk nowhere to go no , not so much as a thatched hurdle that's the way o' Weydon Priors . 
The hay trusser , which he obviously was , nodded with some superciliousness . 
Looking towards the village , he continued , There is something going on here , however , is there not ? Ay . 
Though what you hear now is little more than the clatter and scurry of getting away the money o' children and fools , for the real business is done earlier than this . 
I've been working within sound o't all day , but I didn't go up not I. 'Twas no business of mine . 
Neither of our pedestrians had much heart for these things , and they looked around for a refreshment tent among the many which dotted the down . 
Two , which stood nearest to them in the ochreous haze of expiring sunlight , seemed almost equally inviting . 
One was formed of new , milk hued canvas , and bore red flags on its summit it announced Good Home brewed Beer , Ale , and Cyder . 
The other was less new a little iron stove pipe came out of it at the back and in front appeared the placard , Good Furmity Sold Hear . 
The man mentally weighed the two inscriptions and inclined to the former tent . 
No no the other one , said the woman . 
I always like furmity and so does Elizabeth Jane and so will you . 
It is nourishing after a long hard day . 
I've never tasted it , said the man . 
However , he gave way to her representations , and they entered the furmity booth forthwith . 
A rather numerous company appeared within , seated at the long narrow tables that ran down the tent on each side . 
She slowly stirred the contents of the pot . 
Vessels holding the separate ingredients stood on a white clothed table of boards and trestles close by . 
The young man and woman ordered a basin each of the mixture , steaming hot , and sat down to consume it at leisure . 
But there was more in that tent than met the cursory glance and the man , with the instinct of a perverse character , scented it quickly . 
After a mincing attack on his bowl , he watched the hag's proceedings from the corner of his eye , and saw the game she played . 
The liquor poured in was rum . 
The man as slily sent back money in payment . 
He found the concoction , thus strongly laced , much more to his satisfaction than it had been in its natural state . 
His wife had observed the proceeding with much uneasiness but he persuaded her to have hers laced also , and she agreed to a milder allowance after some misgiving . 
The man finished his basin , and called for another , the rum being signalled for in yet stronger proportion . 
But he turned a deaf ear to those bird like chirpings . 
He talked loud to the company . 
The child's black eyes , after slow , round , ruminating gazes at the candles when they were lighted , fell together then they opened , then shut again , and she slept . 
The conversation took a high turn , as it often does on such occasions . 
I did for myself that way thoroughly , said the trusser with a contemplative bitterness that was well night resentful . 
I married at eighteen , like the fool that I was and this is the consequence o't . 
He pointed at himself and family with a wave of the hand intended to bring out the penuriousness of the exhibition . 
The man continued I haven't more than fifteen shillings in the world , and yet I am a good experienced hand in my line . 
I'd challenge England to beat me in the fodder business and if I were a free man again I'd be worth a thousand pound before I'd done o't . 
But a fellow never knows these little things till all chance of acting upon 'em is past . 
From his appearance he had possibly been in former time groom or coachman to some neighbouring county family . 
Then , crossing his legs , he resumed his pipe with a nicely adjusted gaze at a point in the air . 
The fuddled young husband stared for a few seconds at this unexpected praise of his wife , half in doubt of the wisdom of his own attitude towards the possessor of such qualities . 
But he speedily lapsed into his former conviction , and said harshly Well , then , now is your chance I am open to an offer for this gem o' creation . 
She turned to her husband and murmured , Michael , you have talked this nonsense in public places before . 
A joke is a joke , but you may make it once too often , mind ! I know I've said it before I meant it . 
All I want is a buyer . 
In watching the bird till it made its escape the assembled company neglected to respond to the workman's offer , and the subject dropped . 
Here I am waiting to know about this offer of mine . 
The woman is no good to me . 
Who'll have her ? The company had by this time decidedly degenerated , and the renewed inquiry was received with a laugh of appreciation . 
The woman whispered she was imploring and anxious Come , come , it is getting dark , and this nonsense won't do . 
If you don't come along , I shall go without you . 
Come ! She waited and waited yet he did not move . 
In ten minutes the man broke in upon the desultory conversation of the furmity drinkers with . 
I asked this question , and nobody answered to 't . 
Will any Jack Rag or Tom Straw among ye buy my goods ? The woman's manner changed , and her face assumed the grim shape and colour of which mention has been made . 
Mike , Mike , she said this is getting serious . 
O ! too serious ! Will anybody buy her ? said the man . 
I wish somebody would , said she firmly . 
Her present owner is not at all to her liking ! Nor you to mine , said he . 
So we are agreed about that . 
Gentlemen , you hear ? It's an agreement to part . 
She shall take the girl if she wants to , and go her ways . 
I'll take my tools , and go my ways . 
'Tis simple as Scripture history . 
Now then , stand up , Susan , and show yourself . 
Don't , my chiel , whispered a buxom staylace dealer in voluminous petticoats , who sat near the woman yer good man don't know what he's saying . 
The woman , however , did stand up . 
Now , who's auctioneer ? cried the hay trusser . 
I be , promptly answered a short man , with a nose resembling a copper knob , a damp voice , and eyes like button holes . 
Who'll make an offer for this lady ? The woman looked on the ground , as if she maintained her position by a supreme effort of will . 
Five shillings , said someone , at which there was a laugh . 
No insults , said the husband . 
Who'll say a guinea ? Nobody answered and the female dealer in staylaces interposed . 
Two guineas ! said the auctioneer and no one replied . 
If they don't take her for that , in ten seconds they'll have to give more , said the husband . 
Now auctioneer , add another . 
Three guineas going for three guineas ! said the rheumy man . 
No bid ? said the husband . 
Good Lord , why she's cost me fifty times the money , if a penny . 
Four guineas ! cried the auctioneer . 
I'll tell ye what I won't sell her for less than five , said the husband , bringing down his fist so that the basins danced . 
But she shan't go for less . 
Now then five guineas and she's yours . 
Susan , you agree ? She bowed her head with absolute indifference . 
Five guineas , said the auctioneer , or she'll be withdrawn . 
Do anybody give it ? The last time . 
Yes or no ? Yes , said a loud voice from the doorway . 
Standing in the triangular opening which formed the door of the tent was a sailor , who , unobserved by the rest , had arrived there within the last two or three minutes . 
A dead silence followed his affirmation . 
You say you do ? asked the husband , staring at him . 
I say so , replied the sailor . 
Saying is one thing , and paying is another . 
Where's the money ? The sailor hesitated a moment , looked anew at the woman , came in , unfolded five crisp pieces of paper , and threw them down upon the tablecloth . 
They were Bank of England notes for five pounds . 
Upon the face of this he clinked down the shillings severally one , two , three , four , five . 
The sight of real money in full amount , in answer to a challenge for the same till then deemed slightly hypothetical had a great effect upon the spectators . 
Their eyes became riveted upon the faces of the chief actors , and then upon the notes as they lay , weighted by the shillings , on the table . 
Up to this moment it could not positively have been asserted that the man , in spite of his tantalizing declaration , was really in earnest . 
But with the demand and response of real cash the jovial frivolity of the scene departed . 
A lurid colour seemed to fill the tent , and change the aspect of all therein . 
The mirth wrinkles left the listeners' faces , and they waited with parting lips . 
Now , said the woman , breaking the silence , so that her low dry voice sounded quite loud , before you go further , Michael , listen to me . 
If you touch that money , I and this girl go with the man . 
Mind , it is a joke no longer . 
A joke ? Of course it is not a joke ! shouted her husband , his resentment rising at her suggestion . 
I take the money the sailor takes you . 
It has been done elsewhere and why not here ? 'Tis quite on the understanding that the young woman is willing , said the sailor blandly . 
I wouldn't hurt her feelings for the world . 
Faith , nor I , said her husband . 
But she is willing , provided she can have the child . 
She said so only the other day when I talked o't ! That you swear ? said the sailor to her . 
I do , said she , after glancing at her husband's face and seeing no repentance there . 
Very well , she shall have the child , and the bargain's complete , said the trusser . 
He took the sailor's notes and deliberately folded them , and put them with the shillings in a high remote pocket , with an air of finality . 
The sailor looked at the woman and smiled . 
Come along ! he said kindly . 
The little one too the more the merrier ! She paused for an instant , with a close glance at him . 
Then dropping her eyes again , and saying nothing , she took up the child and followed him as he made towards the door . 
On reaching it , she turned , and pulling off her wedding ring , flung it across the booth in the hay trusser's face . 
Mike , she said , I've lived with thee a couple of years , and had nothing but temper ! Now I'm no more to 'ee I'll try my luck elsewhere . 
'Twill be better for me and Elizabeth Jane , both . 
So good bye ! Seizing the sailor's arm with her right hand , and mounting the little girl on her left , she went out of the tent sobbing bitterly . 
A stolid look of concern filled the husband's face , as if , after all , he had not quite anticipated this ending and some of the guests laughed . 
Is she gone ? he said . 
Faith , ay ! she's gone clane enough , said some rustics near the door . 
He rose and walked to the entrance with the careful tread of one conscious of his alcoholic load . 
Some others followed , and they stood looking into the twilight . 
The difference between the peacefulness of inferior nature and the wilful hostilities of mankind was very apparent at this place . 
Outside the fair , in the valleys and woods , all was quiet . 
The sun had recently set , and the west heaven was hung with rosy cloud , which seemed permanent , yet slowly changed . 
To watch it was like looking at some grand feat of stagery from a darkened auditorium . 
Where do the sailor live ? asked a spectator , when they had vainly gazed around . 
God knows that , replied the man who had seen high life . 
He's without doubt a stranger here . 
He came in about five minutes ago , said the furmity woman , joining the rest with her hands on her hips . 
And then 'a stepped back , and then 'a looked in again . 
I'm not a penny the better for him . 
Serves the husband well be right , said the staylace vendor . 
A comely respectable body like her what can a man want more ? I glory in the woman's sperrit . 
Mark me I'll not go after her ! said the trusser , returning doggedly to his seat . 
Let her go ! If she's up to such vagaries she must suffer for 'em . 
The man stretched his elbows forward on the table leant his face upon his arms , and soon began to snore . 
The furmity seller decided to close for the night , and after seeing the rum bottles , milk , corn , raisins , etc . 
, that remained on hand , loaded into the cart , came to where the man reclined . 
She shook him , but could not wake him . 
Extinguishing the last candle , and lowering the flap of the tent , she left it , and drove away . 
The morning sun was streaming through the crevices of the canvas when the man awoke . 
A warm glow pervaded the whole atmosphere of the marquee , and a single big blue fly buzzed musically round and round it . 
Besides the buzz of the fly there was not a sound . 
Among the odds and ends he discerned a little shining object , and picked it up . 
It was his wife's ring . 
A confused picture of the events of the previous evening seemed to come back to him , and he thrust his hand into his breast pocket . 
A rustling revealed the sailor's bank notes thrust carelessly in . 
This second verification of his dim memories was enough he knew now they were not dreams . 
He remained seated , looking on the ground for some time . 
I must get out of this as soon as I can , he said deliberately at last , with the air of one who could not catch his thoughts without pronouncing them . 
She's gone to be sure she is gone with that sailor who bought her , and little Elizabeth Jane . 
We walked here , and I had the furmity , and rum in it and sold her . 
Next he shouldered his tool basket , and found he could carry it . 
Then lifting the tent door he emerged into the open air . 
Here the man looked around with gloomy curiosity . 
The freshness of the September morning inspired and braced him as he stood . 
He and his family had been weary when they arrived the night before , and they had observed but little of the place so that he now beheld it as a new thing . 
It exhibited itself as the top of an open down , bounded on one extreme by a plantation , and approached by a winding road . 
At the bottom stood the village which lent its name to the upland and the annual fair that was held thereon . 
The spot stretched downward into valleys , and onward to other uplands , dotted with barrows , and trenched with the remains of prehistoric forts . 
A little one started up under one of the carts , barked as a matter of principle , and quickly lay down again . 
He was the only positive spectator of the hay trusser's exit from the Weydon Fair field . 
This seemed to accord with his desire . 
When he reached a lane , a good mile from the scene of the previous evening , the man pitched his basket and leant upon a gate . 
A difficult problem or two occupied his mind . 
Did I tell my name to anybody last night , or didn't I tell my name ? he said to himself and at last concluded that he did not . 
He knew that she must have been somewhat excited to do this moreover , she must have believed that there was some sort of binding force in the transaction . 
On this latter point he felt almost certain , knowing her freedom from levity of character , and the extreme simplicity of her intellect . 
There may , too , have been enough recklessness and resentment beneath her ordinary placidity to make her stifle any momentary doubts . 
Yet she knows I am not in my senses when I do that ! he exclaimed . 
Well , I must walk about till I find her . 
Seize her , why didn't she know better than bring me into this disgrace ! he roared out . 
She wasn't queer if I was . 
'Tis like Susan to show such idiotic simplicity . 
It was of his own making , and he ought to bear it . 
He instantly made towards the latter object . 
Hence he reached the church without observation , and the door being only latched he entered . 
He went round to the door , and the housewife agreed to prepare him some breakfast for a trifling payment , which was done . 
Then he started on the search for his wife and child . 
The perplexing nature of the undertaking became apparent soon enough . 
Though he examined and inquired , and walked hither and thither day after day , no such characters as those he described had anywhere been seen since the evening of the fair . 
To add to the difficulty he could gain no sound of the sailor's name . 
As money was short with him he decided , after some hesitation , to spend the sailor's money in the prosecution of this search but it was equally in vain . 
Weeks counted up to months , and still he searched on , maintaining himself by small jobs of work in the intervals . 
By this time he had arrived at a seaport , and there he derived intelligence that persons answering somewhat to his description had emigrated a little time before . 
Then he said he would search no longer , and that he would go and settle in the district which he had had for some time in his mind . 
The highroad into the village of Weydon Priors was again carpeted with dust . 
Change was only to be observed in details but here it was obvious that a long procession of years had passed by . 
She was dressed in the mourning clothes of a widow . 
A glance was sufficient to inform the eye that this was Susan Henchard's grown up daughter . 
They walked with joined hands , and it could be perceived that this was the act of simple affection . 
The daughter carried in her outer hand a withy basket of old fashioned make the mother a blue bundle , which contrasted oddly with her black stuff gown . 
Reaching the outskirts of the village they pursued the same track as formerly , and ascended to the fair . 
Here , too it was evident that the years had told . 
Certain mechanical improvements might have been noticed in the roundabouts and high fliers , machines for testing rustic strength and weight , and in the erections devoted to shooting for nuts . 
But the real business of the fair had considerably dwindled . 
The new periodical great markets of neighbouring towns were beginning to interfere seriously with the trade carried on here for centuries . 
The pens for sheep , the tie ropes for horses , were about half as long as they had been . 
The stalls of tailors , hosiers , coopers , linen drapers , and other such trades had almost disappeared , and the vehicles were far less numerous . 
The mother and daughter threaded the crowd for some little distance , and then stood still . 
Why did we hinder our time by coming in here ? I thought you wished to get onward ? said the maiden . 
Yes , my dear Elizabeth Jane , explained the other . 
But I had a fancy for looking up here . 
Why ? It was here I first met with Newson on such a day as this . 
First met with father here ? Yes , you have told me so before . 
And now he's drowned and gone from us ! As she spoke the girl drew a card from her pocket and looked at it with a sigh . 
And it was here , continued her mother , with more hesitation , that I last saw the relation we are going to look for Mr. Michael Henchard . 
What is his exact kin to us , mother ? I have never clearly had it told me . 
He is , or was for he may be dead a connection by marriage , said her mother deliberately . 
That's exactly what you have said a score of times before ! replied the young woman , looking about her inattentively . 
He's not a near relation , I suppose ? Not by any means . 
He was a hay trusser , wasn't he , when you last heard of him ? He was . 
I suppose he never knew me ? the girl innocently continued . 
Mrs. Henchard paused for a moment , and answered un easily , Of course not , Elizabeth Jane . 
She moved on to another part of the field . 
It is not much use inquiring here for anybody , I should think , the daughter observed , as she gazed round about . 
People at fairs change like the leaves of trees and I daresay you are the only one here to day who was here all those years ago . 
I am not so sure of that , said Mrs. Newson , as she now called herself , keenly eyeing something under a green bank a little way off . 
The daughter looked in the direction signified . 
The object pointed out was a tripod of sticks stuck into the earth , from which hung a three legged crock , kept hot by a smouldering wood fire beneath . 
Over the pot stooped an old woman haggard , wrinkled , and almost in rags . 
She was here at that time , resumed Mrs. Newson , making a step as if to draw nearer . 
Don't speak to her it isn't respectable ! urged the other . 
I will just say a word you , Elizabeth Jane , can stay here . 
The girl was not loth , and turned to some stalls of coloured prints while her mother went forward . 
Nobody could come , nobody could go , without having a dish of Mrs. Goodenough's furmity . 
I knew the clergy's taste , the dandy gent's taste I knew the town's taste , the country's taste . 
I even knowed the taste of the coarse shameless females . 
If it had been a big thing I should have minded it in a moment , she said . 
I can mind every serious fight o' married parties , every murder , every manslaughter , even every pocket picking leastwise large ones that 't has been my lot to witness . 
But a selling ? Was it done quiet like ? Well , yes . 
The furmity woman half shook her head again . 
And yet , she said , I do . 
She briefly thanked her informant , and rejoined Elizabeth , who greeted her with , Mother , do let's get on it was hardly respectable for you to buy refreshments there . 
I see none but the lowest do . 
I have learned what I wanted , however , said her mother quietly . 
The last time our relative visited this fair he said he was living at Casterbridge . 
It is a long , long way from here , and it was many years ago that he said it , but there I think we'll go . 
With this they descended out of the fair , and went onward to the village , where they obtained a night's lodging . 
Henchard's wife acted for the best , but she had involved herself in difficulties . 
An innocent maiden had thus grown up in the belief that the relations between the genial sailor and her mother were the ordinary ones that they had always appeared to be . 
The risk of endangering a child's strong affection by disturbing ideas which had grown with her growth was to Mrs. Henchard too fearful a thing to contemplate . 
It had seemed , indeed folly to think of making Elizabeth Jane wise . 
But Susan Henchard's fear of losing her dearly loved daughter's heart by a revelation had little to do with any sense of wrong doing on her own part . 
But she was by no means the first or last peasant woman who had religiously adhered to her purchaser , as too many rural records show . 
The history of Susan Henchard's adventures in the interim can be told in two or three sentences . 
He then engaged in the Newfoundland trade , and it was during this period that Susan had an awakening . 
A friend to whom she confided her history ridiculed her grave acceptance of her position and all was over with her peace of mind . 
When Newson came home at the end of one winter he saw that the delusion he had so carefully sustained had vanished for ever . 
There was then a time of sadness , in which she told him her doubts if she could live with him longer . 
Newson left home again on the Newfoundland trade when the season came round . 
The vague news of his loss at sea a little later on solved a problem which had become torture to her meek conscience . 
She saw him no more . 
Of Henchard they heard nothing . 
To the liege subjects of Labour , the England of those days was a continent , and a mile a geographical degree . 
Elizabeth Jane developed early into womanliness . 
Her mother was in a back corner of the same room engaged in the same labour , and dropping the heavy wood needle she was filling she surveyed her daughter thoughtfully . 
The sun shone in at the door upon the young woman's head and hair , which was worn loose , so that the rays streamed into its depths as into a hazel copse . 
Her face , though somewhat wan and incomplete , possessed the raw materials of beauty in a promising degree . 
There was an under handsomeness in it , struggling to reveal itself through the provisional curves of immaturity , and the casual disfigurements that resulted from the straitened circumstances of their lives . 
She was handsome in the bone , hardly as yet handsome in the flesh . 
She possibly might never be fully handsome , unless the carking accidents of her daily existence could be evaded before the mobile parts of her countenance had settled to their final mould . 
The sight of the girl made her mother sad not vaguely but by logical inference . 
They both were still in that strait waistcoat of poverty from which she had tried so many times to be delivered for the girl's sake . 
The desire sober and repressed of Elizabeth Jane's heart was indeed to see , to hear , and to understand . 
How could she become a woman of wider knowledge , higher repute better , as she termed it this was her constant inquiry of her mother . 
She sought further into things than other girls in her position ever did , and her mother groaned as she felt she could not aid in the search . 
To pocket her pride and search for the first husband seemed , wisely or not , the best initiatory step . 
He had possibly drunk himself into his tomb . 
At any rate , the propriety of returning to him , if he lived , was unquestionable . 
The awkwardness of searching for him lay in enlightening Elizabeth , a proceeding which her mother could not endure to contemplate . 
This will account for their conversation at the fair and the half informed state at which Elizabeth was led onward . 
In this attitude they proceeded on their journey , trusting solely to the dim light afforded of Henchard's whereabouts by the furmity woman . 
The strictest economy was indispensable . 
Sometimes they might have been seen on foot , sometimes on farmers' waggons , sometimes in carriers' vans and thus they drew near to Casterbridge . 
It was on a Friday evening , near the middle of September and just before dusk , that they reached the summit of a hill within a mile of the place they sought . 
There were high banked hedges to the coach road here , and they mounted upon the green turf within , and sat down . 
The spot commanded a full view of the town and its environs . 
What an old fashioned place it seems to be ! said Elizabeth Jane , while her silent mother mused on other things than topography . 
It is huddled all together and it is shut in by a square wall of trees , like a plot of garden ground by a box edging . 
It was compact as a box of dominoes . 
It had no suburbs in the ordinary sense . 
Country and town met at a mathematical line . 
To the level eye of humanity it stood as an indistinct mass behind a dense stockade of limes and chestnuts , set in the midst of miles of rotund down and concave field . 
It was by one of these avenues that the pedestrians were about to enter . 
Before they had risen to proceed two men passed outside the hedge , engaged in argumentative conversation . 
That seems a hint to us that he is still here . 
Shall I run after them , and ask them about him No , no , no ! Not for the world just yet . 
He may be in the workhouse , or in the stocks , for all we know . 
Dear me why should you think that , mother ? 'Twas just something to say that's all ! But we must make private inquiries . 
Having sufficiently rested they proceeded on their way at evenfall . 
The features of the town had a keen interest for Elizabeth's mother , now that the human side came to the fore . 
Within the avenue and bank was a wall more or less discontinuous , and within the wall were packed the abodes of the burghers . 
Though the two women did not know it these external features were but the ancient defences of the town , planted as a promenade . 
The difference between burgh and champaign was increased , too , by sounds which now reached them above others the notes of a brass band . 
There were houses of brick nogging , which derived their chief support from those adjoining . 
There were slate roofs patched with tiles , and tile roofs patched with slate , with occasionally a roof of thatch . 
The agricultural and pastoral character of the people upon whom the town depended for its existence was shown by the class of objects displayed in the shop windows . 
From this tower the clock struck eight , and thereupon a bell began to toll with a peremptory clang . 
The curfew was still rung in Casterbridge , and it was utilized by the inhabitants as a signal for shutting their shops . 
No sooner did the deep notes of the bell throb between the house fronts than a clatter of shutters arose through the whole length of the High Street . 
In a few minutes business at Casterbridge was ended for the day . 
She carried a load under her arm from which she was pulling pieces of bread , and handing them to some other women who walked with her , which pieces they nibbled critically . 
The sight reminded Mrs. Henchard Newson and her daughter that they had an appetite and they inquired of the woman for the nearest baker's . 
Ye may as well look for manna food as good bread in Casterbridge just now , she said , after directing them . 
There's less good bread than good beer in Casterbridge now . 
And less good beer than swipes , said a man with his hands in his pockets . 
How does it happen there's no good bread ? asked Mrs. Henchard . 
I've been a wife , and I've been a mother , and I never see such unprincipled bread in Casterbridge as this before . 
But you must be a real stranger here not to know what's made all the poor volks' insides plim like blowed bladders this week ? I am , said Elizabeth's mother shyly . 
Not wishing to be observed further till she knew more of her future in this place , she withdrew with her daughter from the speaker's side . 
Getting a couple of biscuits at the shop indicated as a temporary substitute for a meal , they next bent their steps instinctively to where the music was playing . 
A few score yards brought them to the spot where the town band was now shaking the window panes with the strains of The Roast Beef of Old England . 
The building before whose doors they had pitched their music stands was the chief hotel in Casterbridge namely , the King's Arms . 
You , Elizabeth Jane , had better be the one to do it . 
I'm too worn out to do anything pull down your fall first . 
She sat down upon the lowest step , and Elizabeth Jane obeyed her directions and stood among the idlers . 
What's going on to night ? asked the girl , after singling out an old man and standing by him long enough to acquire a neighbourly right of converse . 
Well , ye must be a stranger sure , said the old man , without taking his eyes from the window . 
Why , 'tis a great public dinner of the gentle people and such like leading volk wi' the Mayor in the chair . 
As we plainer fellows bain't invited , they leave the winder shutters open that we may get jist a sense o't out here . 
If you mount the steps you can see em . 
That's Mr. Henchard , the Mayor , at the end of the table , a facing ye and that's the Council men right and left . 
She ascended to the top of the steps . 
She arose , and stepped up to her daughter's side as soon as she could do so without showing exceptional eagerness . 
The interior of the hotel dining room was spread out before her , with its tables , and glass , and plate , and inmates . 
He had a rich complexion , which verged on swarthiness , a flashing black eye , and dark , bushy brows and hair . 
That laugh was not encouraging to strangers , and hence it may have been well that it was rarely heard . 
Many theories might have been built upon it . 
It fell in well with conjectures of a temperament which would have no pity for weakness , but would be ready to yield ungrudging admiration to greatness and strength . 
Its producer's personal goodness , if he had any , would be of a very fitful cast an occasional almost oppressive generosity rather than a mild and constant kindness . 
Susan Henchard's husband in law , at least sat before them , matured in shape , stiffened in line , exaggerated in traits disciplined , thought marked in a word , older . 
He was dressed in an old fashioned evening suit , an expanse of frilled shirt showing on his broad breast jewelled studs , and a heavy gold chain . 
Three glasses stood at his right hand but , to his wife's surprise , the two for wine were empty , while the third , a tumbler , was half full of water . 
When last she had seen him he was sitting in a corduroy jacket , fustian waistcoat and breeches , and tanned leather leggings , with a basin of hot furmity before him . 
Time , the magician , had wrought much here . 
She forgot her daughter till a touch from Elizabeth Jane aroused her . 
Have you seen him , mother ? whispered the girl . 
Yes , yes , answered her companion hastily . 
I have seen him , and it is enough for me ! Now I only want to go pass away die . 
Why O what ? She drew closer , and whispered in her mother's ear , Does he seem to you not likely to befriend us ? I thought he looked a generous man . 
I don't know at all I can't tell what to set about . 
Don't be that , mother , now we have got here and all ! Rest there where you be a little while I will look on and find out more about him . 
I don't think I can ever meet Mr. Henchard . 
He is not how I thought he would be he overpowers me ! I don't wish to see him any more . 
But wait a little time and consider . 
The younger guests were talking and eating with animation their elders were searching for titbits , and sniffing and grunting over their plates like sows nuzzling for acorns . 
Three drinks seemed to be sacred to the company port , sherry , and rum outside which old established trinity few or no palates ranged . 
They don't fill Mr. Henchard's wine glasses , she ventured to say to her elbow acquaintance , the old man . 
Ah , no don't ye know him to be the celebrated abstaining worthy of that name ? He scorns all tempting liquors never touches nothing . 
O yes , he've strong qualities that way . 
I have heard tell that he sware a gospel oath in bygone times , and has bode by it ever since . 
So they don't press him , knowing it would be unbecoming in the face of that for yer gospel oath is a serious thing . 
I don't know the why and the wherefore of his fixing such a time , for 'a never has told anybody . 
But 'tis exactly two calendar years longer , they say . 
A powerful mind to hold out so long ! True . 
But there's great strength in hope . 
No doubt , Christopher Coney , no doubt . 
And 'a must need such reflections a lonely widow man , said Longways . 
When did he lose his wife ? asked Elizabeth . 
'Twas afore he came to Casterbridge , Solomon Longways replied with terminative emphasis , as if the fact of his ignorance of Mrs. Henchard were sufficient to deprive her history of all interest . 
Has he many men , then ? said Elizabeth Jane . 
Many ! Why , my good maid , he's the powerfullest member of the Town Council , and quite a principal man in the country round besides . 
Never a big dealing in wheat , barley , oats , hay , roots , and such like but Henchard's got a hand in it . 
Ay , and he'll go into other things too and that's where he makes his mistake . 
He worked his way up from nothing when 'a came here and now he's a pillar of the town . 
Not but what he's been shaken a little to year about this bad corn he has supplied in his contracts . 
'Tis that growed out that ye could a'most call it malt , and there's a list at bottom o' the loaf as thick as the sole of one's shoe . 
The band now struck up another melody , and by the time it was ended the dinner was over , and speeches began to be made . 
The evening being calm , and the windows still open , these orations could be distinctly heard . 
Henchard's voice arose above the rest he was telling a story of his hay dealing experiences , in which he had outwitted a sharper who had been bent upon outwitting him . 
Well , I admit that the wheat turned out badly , he said . 
But I was taken in in buying it as much as the bakers who bought it o' me . 
And the poor folk who had to eat it whether or no , said the inharmonious man outside the window . 
There was temper under the thin bland surface the temper which , artificially intensified , had banished a wife nearly a score of years before . 
You must make allowances for the accidents of a large business , he said . 
You must bear in mind that the weather just at the harvest of that corn was worse than we have known it for years . 
However , I have mended my arrangements on account o't . 
Since I have found my business too large to be well looked after by myself alone , I have advertised for a thorough good man as manager of the corn department . 
When I've got him you will find these mistakes will no longer occur matters will be better looked into . 
But what are you going to do to repay us for the past ? inquired the man who had before spoken , and who seemed to be a baker or miller . 
Instead of vouchsafing a direct reply , he stiffly observed If anybody will tell me how to turn grown wheat into wholesome wheat I'll take it back with pleasure . 
But it can't be done . 
Henchard was not to be drawn again . 
Having said this , he sat down . 
He was ruddy and of a fair countenance , bright eyed , and slight in build . 
But the subject seemed to arrest him , and he whispered some inquiries of the other bystanders , and remained listening . 
Give this to the Mayor at once , he said , handing in his hasty note . 
Elizabeth Jane had seen his movements and heard the words , which attracted her both by their subject and by their accent a strange one for those parts . 
It was quaint and northerly . 
They say the Three Mariners , just below here , is a very good place , he languidly answered but I have never stayed there myself . 
While he was disappearing slowly down the street the waiter left the door , and Elizabeth Jane saw with some interest the note brought into the dining room and handed to the Mayor . 
Henchard looked at it carelessly , unfolded it with one hand , and glanced it through . 
Thereupon it was curious to note an unexpected effect . 
The nettled , clouded aspect which had held possession of his face since the subject of his corn dealings had been broached , changed itself into one of arrested attention . 
He read the note slowly , and fell into thought , not moody , but fitfully intense , as that of a man who has been captured by an idea . 
By this time toasts and speeches had given place to songs , the wheat subject being quite forgotten . 
Men were putting their heads together in twos and threes , telling good stories , with pantomimic laughter which reached convulsive grimace . 
Only Henchard did not conform to these flexuous changes he remained stately and vertical , silently thinking . 
Elizabeth Jane turned to her companion . 
The evening is drawing on , mother , she said . 
What do you propose to do ? She was surprised to find how irresolute her mother had become . 
We must get a place to lie down in , she murmured . 
I have seen Mr. Henchard and that's all I wanted to do . 
That's enough for to night , at any rate , Elizabeth Jane replied soothingly . 
We can think to morrow what is best to do about him . 
A recommendation good for one person was probably good for another . 
Let's go where the young man has gone to , she said . 
What do you say ? Her mother assented , and down the street they went . 
This was just after the departure of his wife and Elizabeth . 
Outside the door of the assembly room he saw the waiter , and beckoning to him asked who had brought the note which had been handed in a quarter of an hour before . 
A young man , sir a sort of traveller . 
He was a Scotchman seemingly . 
Did he say how he had got it ? He wrote it himself , sir , as he stood outside the window . 
Is the young man in the hotel ? No , sir . 
He went to the Three Mariners , I believe . 
But there could be no doubt that he was in reality still possessed to the full by the new idea , whatever that might be . 
At length he went back to the door of the dining room , paused , and found that the songs , toasts , and conversation were proceeding quite satisfactorily without his presence . 
Seeing this the Mayor took his hat , and when the waiter had helped him on with a thin holland overcoat , went out and stood under the portico . 
Very few persons were now in the street and his eyes , by a sort of attraction , turned and dwelt upon a spot about a hundred yards further down . 
Having kept his eyes on it for a while he strolled in that direction . 
A four centred Tudor arch was over the entrance , and over the arch the signboard , now visible in the rays of an opposite lamp . 
Hereon the Mariners , who had been represented by the artist as persons of two dimensions only in other words , flat as a shadow were standing in a row in paralyzed attitudes . 
Elizabeth Jane and her mother had arrived some twenty minutes earlier . 
Outside the house they had stood and considered whether even this homely place , though recommended as moderate , might not be too serious in its prices for their light pockets . 
Elizabeth and her mother were passively accepted as sojourners , and shown to a small bedroom under one of the gables , where they sat down . 
'Tis too good for us we can't meet it ! said the elder woman , looking round the apartment with misgiving as soon as they were left alone . 
I fear it is , too , said Elizabeth . 
But we must be respectable . 
We must pay our way even before we must be respectable , replied her mother . 
Mr. Henchard is too high for us to make ourselves known to him , I much fear so we've only our own pockets to depend on . 
I know what I'll do , said Elizabeth Jane after an interval of waiting , during which their needs seemed quite forgotten under the press of business below . 
And leaving the room , she descended the stairs and penetrated to the bar . 
If there was one good thing more than another which characterized this single hearted girl it was a willingness to sacrifice her personal comfort and dignity to the common weal . 
As you seem busy here to night , and mother's not well off , might I take out part of our accommodation by helping ? she asked of the landlady . 
Such arrangements as the one Elizabeth proposed were not uncommon in country villages but , though Casterbridge was old fashioned , the custom was well nigh obsolete here . 
The mistress of the house , however , was an easy woman to strangers , and she made no objection . 
While she was doing this the wood partition in the centre of the house thrilled to its centre with the tugging of a bell pull upstairs . 
A bell below tinkled a note that was feebler in sound than the twanging of wires and cranks that had produced it . 
The front room over this . 
The accommodation of the Three Mariners was far from spacious , despite the fair area of ground it covered . 
The room demanded by intrusive beams and rafters , partitions , passages , staircases , disused ovens , settles , and four posters , left comparatively small quarters for human beings . 
Thus Elizabeth found that the Scotchman was located in a room quite close to the small one that had been allotted to herself and her mother . 
When she entered nobody was present but the young man himself the same whom she had seen lingering without the windows of the King's Arms Hotel . 
She set down the tray , spread his supper , and went away without a word . 
Mrs. Stannidge thereupon said with a considerate peremptoriness that she and her mother had better take their own suppers if they meant to have any . 
To her surprise her mother , instead of being reclined on the bed where she had left her was in an erect position , with lips parted . 
At Elizabeth's entry she lifted her finger . 
The meaning of this was soon apparent . 
But , as is frequently the case with hotels of far higher pretensions than the Three Mariners , every word spoken in either of these rooms was distinctly audible in the other . 
Such sounds came through now . 
Thus silently conjured Elizabeth deposited the tray , and her mother whispered as she drew near , 'Tis he . 
Who ? said the girl . 
I merely strolled in on my way home to ask you a question about something that has excited my curiosity , said the Mayor , with careless geniality . 
But I see you have not finished supper . 
Ay , but I will be done in a little ! Ye needn't go , sir . 
I've almost done , and it makes no difference at all . 
Henchard seemed to take the seat offered , and in a moment he resumed Well , first I should ask , did you write this ? A rustling of paper followed . 
Yes , I did , said the Scotchman . 
My name is Donald Farfrae . 
It is true I am in the corren trade but I have replied to no advertisement , and arranged to see no one . 
To America well , well , said Henchard , in a tone of disappointment , so strong as to make itself felt like a damp atmosphere . 
It was nothing , sir . 
Well , it has a great importance for me just now . 
This row about my grown wheat , which I declare to Heaven I didn't know to be bad till the people came complaining , has put me to my wits' end . 
I've some hundreds of quarters of it on hand and if your renovating process will make it wholesome , why , you can see what a quag 'twould get me out of . 
I saw in a moment there might be truth in it . 
The young man reflected a moment or two . 
I don't know that I have any objection , he said . 
I'm going to another country , and curing bad corn is not the line I'll take up there . 
Yes , I'll tell ye the whole of it you'll make more out of it heere than I will in a foreign country . 
Just look heere a minute , sir . 
I can show ye by a sample in my carpet bag . 
It's complete ! quite restored , or well nearly . 
Quite enough restored to make good seconds out of it , said the Scotchman . 
To fetch it back entirely is impossible Nature won't stand so much as that , but heere you go a great way towards it . 
But hearken to me , pleaded Henchard . 
If you'll accept the place , you shall manage the corn branch entirely , and receive a commission in addition to salary . 
You're liberal very liberal , but no , no I cannet ! the young man still replied , with some distress in his accents . 
So be it ! said Henchard conclusively . 
Now to change the subject one good turn deserves another don't stay to finish that miserable supper . 
Come to my house , I can find something better for 'ee than cold ham and ale . 
Donald Farfrae was grateful said he feared he must decline that he wished to leave early next day . 
Very well , said Henchard quickly , please yourself . 
What shall I pay you for this knowledge ? Nothing at all , nothing at all . 
It may not prove necessary to ye to use it often , and I don't value it at all . 
I thought I might just as well let ye know , as you were in a difficulty , and they were harrd upon ye . 
I shan't soon forget this , he said . 
And from a stranger ! . 
I couldn't believe you were not the man I had engaged ! Says I to myself , 'He knows who I am , and recommends himself by this stroke . 
You must be , what five foot nine , I reckon ? I am six foot one and a half out of my shoes . 
But what of that ? In my business , 'tis true that strength and bustle build up a firm . 
But judgment and knowledge are what keep it established . 
Unluckily , I am bad at science , Farfrae bad at figures a rule o' thumb sort of man . 
You are just the reverse I can see that . 
I have been looking for such as you these two year , and yet you are not for me . 
I feel you would be invaluable to me that needn't be said and if you will bide and be my manager , I will make it worth your while . 
My plans are fixed , said the young man , in negative tones . 
I have formed a scheme , and so we need na say any more about it . 
But will you not drink with me , sir ? I find this Casterbridge ale warreming to the stomach . 
No , no I fain would , but I can't , said Henchard gravely , the scraping of his chair informing the listeners that he was rising to leave . 
It made such an impression on me that I swore , there and then , that I'd drink nothing stronger than tea for as many years as I was old that day . 
I'll no' press ye , sir I'll no' press ye . 
Well , I shall get a manager somewhere , no doubt , said Henchard , with strong feeling in his tones . 
But it will be long before I see one that would suit me so well ! The young man appeared much moved by Henchard's warm convictions of his value . 
He was silent till they reached the door . 
I wish I could stay sincerely I would like to , he replied . 
But no it cannet be ! it cannet ! I want to see the warrld . 
Thus they parted and Elizabeth Jane and her mother remained each in her thoughts over their meal , the mother's face being strangely bright since Henchard's avowal of shame for a past action . 
He sauntered out upon the landing , and descended the staircase . 
The young Scotchman had just joined the guests . 
Among the latter she noticed some of those personages who had stood outside the windows of the King's Arms . 
While thus furtively making her survey the opening words of a song greeted her ears from the front of the settle , in a melody and accent of peculiar charm . 
Elizabeth Jane was fond of music she could not help pausing to listen and the longer she listened the more she was enraptured . 
They neither whispered , nor drank , nor dipped their pipe stems in their ale to moisten them , nor pushed the mug to their neighbours . 
Then the ventilator in the window pane spasmodically started off for a new spin , and the pathos of Donald's song was temporarily effaced . 
'Twas not amiss not at all amiss ! muttered Christopher Coney , who was also present . 
And removing his pipe a finger's breadth from his lips , he said aloud , Draw on with the next verse , young gentleman , please . 
Let's have it again , stranger , said the glazier , a stout , bucket headed man , with a white apron rolled up round his waist . 
Folks don't lift up their hearts like that in this part of the world . 
Young Farfrae repeated the last verse . 
It was plain that nothing so pathetic had been heard at the Three Mariners for a considerable time . 
True , said Buzzford , the dealer , looking at the grain of the table . 
Casterbridge is a old , hoary place o' wickedness , by all account . 
We don't think about flowers and fair faces , not we except in the shape o' cauliflowers and pigs' chaps . 
That's only his random way o' speaking . 
'A was always such a man of underthoughts . 
Don't ye be so over familiar with a gentleman that ye know nothing of and that's travelled a'most from the North Pole . 
That's all of it , said the singer apologetically . 
Soul of my body , then we'll have another ! said the general dealer . 
Let him breathe let him breathe , Mother Cuxsom . 
He hain't got his second wind yet , said the master glazier . 
By this time he had completely taken possession of the hearts of the Three Mariners' inmates , including even old Coney . 
Casterbridge had sentiment Casterbridge had romance but this stranger's sentiment was of differing quality . 
And are you going to bide in Casterbridge , sir ? she asked . 
We be truly sorry to hear it , said Solomon Longways . 
We can ill afford to lose tuneful wynd pipes like yours when they fall among us . 
'Tis barren ignorance that leads to such words . 
He's a simple home spun man , that never was fit for good company think nothing of him , sir . 
I've sent on my luggage though it isn't much for the voyage is long . 
A general sense of regret , in which Elizabeth Jane shared not least , made itself apparent in the company . 
She admired the serious light in which he looked at serious things . 
He had seen no jest in ambiguities and roguery , as the Casterbridge toss pots had done and rightly not there was none . 
She disliked those wretched humours of Christopher Coney and his tribe and he did not appreciate them . 
It was extraordinary how similar their views were . 
Though it was still early the young Scotchman expressed his wish to retire , whereupon the landlady whispered to Elizabeth to run upstairs and turn down his bed . 
She took a candlestick and proceeded on her mission , which was the act of a few moments only . 
When , candle in hand , she reached the top of the stairs on her way down again , Mr. Farfrae was at the foot coming up . 
She could not very well retreat they met and passed in the turn of the staircase . 
Her face flushed , too , at the slight awkwardness of the meeting , and she passed him with her eyes bent on the candle flame that she carried just below her nose . 
Elizabeth Jane , rather disconcerted , hastened on and the Scotchman's voice died away , humming more of the same within the closed door of his room . 
Here the scene and sentiment ended for the present . 
When soon after , the girl rejoined her mother , the latter was still in thought on quite another matter than a young man's song . 
On no account ought ye to have helped serve here to night . 
Not because of ourselves , but for the sake of him . 
Elizabeth , who would perhaps have been more alarmed at this than her mother had she known the real relationship , was not much disturbed about it as things stood . 
Her he was another man than her poor mother's . 
For myself , she said , I didn't at all mind waiting a little upon him . 
He's so respectable , and educated far above the rest of 'em in the inn . 
They thought him very simple not to know their grim broad way of talking about themselves here . 
But of course he didn't know he was too refined in his mind to know such things ! Thus she earnestly pleaded . 
Meanwhile , the he of her mother was not so far away as even they thought . 
After leaving the Three Mariners he had sauntered up and down the empty High Street , passing and repassing the inn in his promenade . 
When the Scotchman sang his voice had reached Henchard's ears through the heart shaped holes in the window shutters , and had led him to pause outside them a long while . 
To be sure , to be sure , how that fellow does draw me ! he had said to himself . 
I suppose 'tis because I'm so lonely . 
I'd have given him a third share in the business to have stayed ! . 
When Elizabeth Jane opened the hinged casement next morning the mellow air brought in the feel of imminent autumn almost as distinctly as if she had been in the remotest hamlet . 
Casterbridge was the complement of the rural life around , not its urban opposite . 
Hearing voices , one of which was close at hand , she withdrew her head and glanced from behind the window curtains . 
Henchard it appeared , had gone a little way past the inn before he had noticed his acquaintance of the previous evening . 
He came back a few steps , Donald Farfrae opening the window further . 
And you are off soon , I suppose ? said Henchard upwards . 
Yes almost this moment , sir , said the other . 
Maybe I'll walk on till the coach makes up on me . 
Which way ? The way ye are going . 
Then shall we walk together to the top o' town ? If ye'll wait a minute , said the Scotchman . 
In a few minutes the latter emerged , bag in hand . 
Henchard looked at the bag as at an enemy . 
It showed there was no mistake about the young man's departure . 
Ah , my lad , he said , you should have been a wise man , and have stayed with me . 
Yes , yes it might have been wiser , said Donald , looking microscopically at the houses that were furthest off . 
It is only telling ye the truth when I say my plans are vague . 
They had by this time passed on from the precincts of the inn , and Elizabeth Jane heard no more . 
She saw that they continued in conversation , Henchard turning to the other occasionally , and emphasizing some remark with a gesture . 
Thus they passed the King's Arms Hotel , the Market House , St . 
He was a good man and he's gone , she said to herself . 
I was nothing to him , and there was no reason why he should have wished me good bye . 
You are still thinking , mother , she said , when she turned inwards . 
Yes I am thinking of Mr. Henchard's sudden liking for that young man . 
They came in from the country , and the steaming horses had probably been travelling a great part of the night . 
To the shaft of each hung a little board , on which was painted in white letters , Henchard , corn factor and hay merchant . 
The spectacle renewed his wife's conviction that , for her daughter's sake , she should strain a point to rejoin him . 
What had brought her to this determination were chiefly two things . 
He had been described as a lonely widower and he had expressed shame for a past transaction of his life . 
There was promise in both . 
In that case , answered Mrs. Henchard cautiously , ask him to write me a note , saying when and how he will see us or ME . 
Elizabeth Jane went a few steps towards the landing . 
Thus with a half hearted willingness , a smothered reluctance , did the poor forgiving woman start her unconscious daughter on this errand . 
The front doors of the private houses were mostly left open at this warm autumn time , no thought of umbrella stealers disturbing the minds of the placid burgesses . 
In addition to these fixed obstacles which spoke so cheerfully of individual unrestraint as to boundaries , movables occupied the path and roadway to a perplexing extent . 
Their owners were numerous enough to be regarded as a tribe , and had almost distinctiveness enough to be regarded as a race . 
And any inviting recess in front of a house that had been modestly kept back from the general line was utilized by pig dealers as a pen for their stock . 
The yeomen , farmers , dairymen , and townsfolk , who came to transact business in these ancient streets , spoke in other ways than by articulation . 
Not to hear the words of your interlocutor in metropolitan centres is to know nothing of his meaning . 
Here the face , the arms , the hat , the stick , the body throughout spoke equally with the tongue . 
Casterbridge lived by agriculture at one remove further from the fountainhead than the adjoining villages no more . 
Very little inquiry was necessary to guide her footsteps . 
Henchard's house was one of the best , faced with dull red and grey old brick . 
The front door was open , and , as in other houses , she could see through the passage to the end of the garden nearly a quarter of a mile off . 
Mr. Henchard was not in the house , but in the store yard . 
She was conducted into the mossy garden , and through a door in the wall , which was studded with rusty nails speaking of generations of fruit trees that had been trained there . 
The door opened upon the yard , and here she was left to find him as she could . 
It was a place flanked by hay barns , into which tons of fodder , all in trusses , were being packed from the waggons she had seen pass the inn that morning . 
On other sides of the yard were wooden granaries on stone staddles , to which access was given by Flemish ladders , and a store house several floors high . 
He directed her to an office which she had not seen before , and knocking at the door she was answered by a cry of Come in . 
His hat hung on a peg behind him , and the roses of his carpet bag glowed from the corner of the room . 
Having toned her feelings and arranged words on her lips for Mr. Henchard , and for him alone , she was for the moment confounded . 
Yes , what it is ? said the Scotchman , like a man who permanently ruled there . 
She said she wanted to see Mr. Henchard . 
Ah , yes will you wait a minute ? He's engaged just now , said the young man , apparently not recognizing her as the girl at the inn . 
He handed her a chair , bade her sit down and turned to his sample bags again . 
While Elizabeth Jane sits waiting in great amaze at the young man's presence we may briefly explain how he came there . 
From this high corner of the square earthworks a vast extent of country could be seen . 
A footpath ran steeply down the green slope , conducting from the shady promenade on the walls to a road at the bottom of the scarp . 
It was by this path the Scotchman had to descend . 
Well , here's success to 'ee , said Henchard , holding out his right hand and leaning with his left upon the wicket which protected the descent . 
In the act there was the inelegance of one whose feelings are nipped and wishes defeated . 
I shall often think of this time , and of how you came at the very moment to throw a light upon my difficulty . 
Still holding the young man's hand he paused , and then added deliberately Now I am not the man to let a cause be lost for want of a word . 
And before ye are gone for ever I'll speak . 
Once more , will ye stay ? There it is , flat and plain . 
You can see that it isn't all selfishness that makes me press 'ee for my business is not quite so scientific as to require an intellect entirely out of the common . 
Others would do for the place without doubt . 
Some selfishness perhaps there is , but there is more it isn't for me to repeat what . 
Come bide with me and name your own terms . 
He looked over the fertile country that stretched beneath them , then backward along the shaded walk reaching to the top of the town . 
I never expected this I did not ! he said . 
Done , said Donald Farfrae . 
The face of Mr. Henchard beamed forth a satisfaction that was almost fierce in its strength . 
Now you are my friend ! he exclaimed . 
Come back to my house let's clinch it at once by clear terms , so as to be comfortable in our minds . 
Farfrae caught up his bag and retraced the North West Avenue in Henchard's company as he had come . 
Henchard was all confidence now . 
I am the most distant fellow in the world when I don't care for a man , he said . 
But when a man takes my fancy he takes it strong . 
I can always make a good meal in the morning . 
I've got a splendid cold pigeon pie going just now . 
You can have some home brewed if you want to , you know . 
It is too airly in the morning for that , said Farfrae with a smile . 
Well , of course , I didn't know . 
I don't drink it because of my oath , but I am obliged to brew for my work people . 
Thus talking they returned , and entered Henchard's premises by the back way or traffic entrance . 
Here the matter was settled over the breakfast , at which Henchard heaped the young Scotchman's plate to a prodigal fulness . 
He would not rest satisfied till Farfrae had written for his luggage from Bristol , and dispatched the letter to the post office . 
When it was done this man of strong impulses declared that his new friend should take up his abode in his house at least till some suitable lodgings could be found . 
While she still sat under the Scotchman's eyes a man came up to the door , reaching it as Henchard opened the door of the inner office to admit Elizabeth . 
The newcomer stepped forward like the quicker cripple at Bethesda , and entered in her stead . 
She could hear his words to Henchard Joshua Jopp , sir by appointment the new manager . 
The new manager ! he's in his office , said Henchard bluntly . 
In his office ! said the man , with a stultified air . 
I mentioned Thursday , said Henchard and as you did not keep your appointment , I have engaged another manager . 
At first I thought he must be you . 
Do you think I can wait when business is in question ? You said Thursday or Saturday , sir , said the newcomer , pulling out a letter . 
Well , you are too late , said the corn factor . 
I can say no more . 
You as good as engaged me , murmured the man . 
Subject to an interview , said Henchard . 
I am sorry for you very sorry indeed . 
But it can't be helped . 
There was no more to be said , and the man came out , encountering Elizabeth Jane in his passage . 
She could see that his mouth twitched with anger , and that bitter disappointment was written in his face everywhere . 
Elizabeth Jane now entered , and stood before the master of the premises . 
Now then , what is it , my young woman ? he said blandly . 
Can I speak to you not on business , sir ? said she . 
He looked at her more thoughtfully . 
The rich rouge et noir of his countenance underwent a slight change . 
Oh Susan is still alive ? he asked with difficulty . 
Are you her daughter ? Yes , sir her only daughter . 
What do you call yourself your Christian name ? Elizabeth Jane , sir . 
Newson ? Elizabeth Jane Newson . 
This at once suggested to Henchard that the transaction of his early married life at Weydon Fair was unrecorded in the family history . 
It was more than he could have expected . 
His wife had behaved kindly to him in return for his unkindness , and had never proclaimed her wrong to her child or to the world . 
I am a good deal interested in your news , he said . 
And as this is not a matter of business , but pleasure , suppose we go indoors . 
Henchard preceded her through the door in the wall to the suddenly changed scene of the garden and flowers , and onward into the house . 
The dining room to which he introduced her still exhibited the remnants of the lavish breakfast laid for Farfrae . 
It was furnished to profusion with heavy mahogany furniture of the deepest red Spanish hues . 
Your mother , then , is quite well ? She is rather worn out , sir , with travelling . 
A sailor's widow when did he die ? Father was lost last spring . 
Henchard winced at the word father , thus applied . 
Do you and she come from abroad America or Australia ? he asked . 
No. We have been in England some years . 
I was twelve when we came here from Canada . 
By such conversation he discovered the circumstances which had enveloped his wife and her child in such total obscurity that he had long ago believed them to be in their graves . 
These things being clear , he returned to the present . 
And where is your mother staying ? At the Three Mariners . 
And you are her daughter Elizabeth Jane ? repeated Henchard . 
He arose , came close to her , and glanced in her face . 
I think , he said , suddenly turning away with a wet eye , you shall take a note from me to your mother . 
I should like to see her . 
Not very well , she said , glad that he had divined this without her being obliged to express it . 
Sealing the whole up carefully , he directed it to Mrs. Newson , Three Mariners Inn , and handed the packet to Elizabeth . 
Deliver it to her personally , please , said Henchard . 
Well , I am glad to see you here , Elizabeth Jane very glad . 
We must have a long talk together but not just now . 
Begad ! he suddenly exclaimed , jumping up . 
I didn't think of that . 
And a few hours would settle the question of her mother's identity for he had arranged in his note to see her that evening . 
It never rains but it pours ! said Henchard . 
In the meantime Elizabeth had reached the inn . 
Her mother , instead of taking the note with the curiosity of a poor woman expecting assistance , was much moved at sight of it . 
She did not read it at once , asking Elizabeth to describe her reception , and the very words Mr. Henchard used . 
Elizabeth's back was turned when her mother opened the letter . 
It ran thus Meet me at eight o'clock this evening , if you can , at the Ring on the Budmouth road . 
The place is easy to find . 
I can say no more now . 
The news upsets me almost . 
The girl seems to be in ignorance . 
Keep her so till I have seen you . 
M. H. He said nothing about the enclosure of five guineas . 
The amount was significant it may tacitly have said to her that he bought her back again . 
She waited restlessly for the close of the day , telling Elizabeth Jane that she was invited to see Mr. Henchard that she would go alone . 
But she said nothing to show that the place of meeting was not at his house , nor did she hand the note to Elizabeth . 
The Ring at Casterbridge was merely the local name of one of the finest Roman Amphitheatres , if not the very finest , remaining in Britain . 
Casterbridge announced old Rome in every street , alley , and precinct . 
It looked Roman , bespoke the art of Rome , concealed dead men of Rome . 
Imaginative inhabitants , who would have felt an unpleasantness at the discovery of a comparatively modern skeleton in their gardens , were quite unmoved by these hoary shapes . 
The Amphitheatre was a huge circular enclosure , with a notch at opposite extremities of its diameter north and south . 
From its sloping internal form it might have been called the spittoon of the Jotuns . 
It was to Casterbridge what the ruined Coliseum is to modern Rome , and was nearly of the same magnitude . 
The dusk of evening was the proper hour at which a true impression of this suggestive place could be received . 
Standing in the middle of the arena at that time there by degrees became apparent its real vastness , which a cursory view from the summit at noon day was apt to obscure . 
Melancholy , impressive , lonely , yet accessible from every part of the town , the historic circle was the frequent spot for appointments of a furtive kind . 
Intrigues were arranged there tentative meetings were there experimented after divisions and feuds . 
But one kind of appointment in itself the most common of any seldom had place in the Amphitheatre that of happy lovers . 
Perhaps it was because its associations had about them something sinister . 
So that , though close to the turnpike road , crimes might be perpetrated there unseen at mid day . 
Some boys had latterly tried to impart gaiety to the ruin by using the central arena as a cricket ground . 
It was related that there still remained under the south entrance excavated cells for the reception of the wild animals and athletes who took part in the games . 
The arena was still smooth and circular , as if used for its original purpose not so very long ago . 
The sloping pathways by which spectators had ascended to their seats were pathways yet . 
As Mayor of the town , with a reputation to keep up , he could not invite her to come to his house till some definite course had been decided on . 
Just before eight he approached the deserted earth work and entered by the south path which descended over the debris of the former dens . 
In a few moments he could discern a female figure creeping in by the great north gap , or public gateway . 
They met in the middle of the arena . 
Neither spoke just at first there was no necessity for speech and the poor woman leant against Henchard , who supported her in his arms . 
I don't drink , he said in a low , halting , apologetic voice . 
You hear , Susan ? I don't drink now I haven't since that night . 
Those were his first words . 
He felt her bow her head in acknowledgment that she understood . 
After a minute or two he again began If I had known you were living , Susan ! But there was every reason to suppose you and the child were dead and gone . 
I took every possible step to find you travelled advertised . 
My opinion at last was that you had started for some colony with that man , and had been drowned on your voyage . 
I meet you now only as his widow I consider myself that , and that I have no claim upon you . 
Had he not died I should never have come never ! Of that you may be sure . 
Ts s s ! How could you be so simple ? I don't know . 
Yet it would have been very wicked if I had not thought like that ! said Susan , almost crying . 
Yes yes so it would . 
It is only that which makes me feel 'ee an innocent woman . 
But to lead me into this ! What , Michael ? she asked , alarmed . 
Why , this difficulty about our living together again , and Elizabeth Jane . 
She cannot be told all she would so despise us both that I could not bear it ! That was why she was brought up in ignorance of you . 
I could not bear it either . 
Well we must talk of a plan for keeping her in her present belief , and getting matters straight in spite of it . 
These things , as well as the dread of the girl discovering our disgrace , makes it necessary to act with extreme caution . 
So that I don't see how you two can return openly to my house as the wife and daughter I once treated badly , and banished from me and there's the rub o't . 
We'll go away at once . 
I only came to see No , no , Susan you are not to go you mistake me ! he said with kindly severity . 
Elizabeth Jane coming to my house as my step daughter . 
The thing is so natural and easy that it is half done in thinking o't . 
I am quite in your hands , Michael , she said meekly . 
Now , now we don't want to hear that , said Henchard gently . 
Of course you won't leave again . 
Think over the plan I have proposed for a few hours and if you can't hit upon a better one we'll adopt it . 
If the lodgings are in High Street they are dear , I suppose ? Never mind you MUST start genteel if our plan is to be carried out . 
Look to me for money . 
Have you enough till I come back ? Quite , said she . 
And are you comfortable at the inn ? O yes . 
And the girl is quite safe from learning the shame of her case and ours ? that's what makes me most anxious of all . 
You would be surprised to find how unlikely she is to dream of the truth . 
How could she ever suppose such a thing ? True ! I like the idea of repeating our marriage , said Mrs. Henchard , after a pause . 
It seems the only right course , after all this . 
Now I think I must go back to Elizabeth Jane , and tell her that our kinsman , Mr. Henchard , kindly wishes us to stay in the town . 
Very well arrange that yourself . 
I'll go some way with you . 
Don't run any risk ! said his wife anxiously . 
I can find my way back it is not late . 
Please let me go alone . 
Do you forgive me , Susan ? She murmured something but seemed to find it difficult to frame her answer . 
Never mind all in good time , said he . 
Then Henchard himself went homeward , going so fast that by the time he reached his door he was almost upon the heels of the unconscious woman from whom he had just parted . 
He watched her up the street , and turned into his house . 
Henchard entered , merely observing , Don't let me interrupt you , if ye will stay so late . 
Henchard himself was mentally and physically unfit for grubbing subtleties from soiled paper he had in a modern sense received the education of Achilles , and found penmanship a tantalizing art . 
You shall do no more to night , he said at length , spreading his great hand over the paper . 
There's time enough to morrow . 
Come indoors with me and have some supper . 
Now you shall ! I am determined on't . 
He shut the account books with friendly force . 
He liked Henchard's warmth , even if it inconvenienced him the great difference in their characters adding to the liking . 
The garden was silent , dewy , and full of perfume . 
The flowers which smelt so sweetly were not discernible and they passed through them into the house . 
He applied a light to the laid in fuel , and a cheerful radiance spread around . 
I've not been always what I am now , continued Henchard , his firm deep voice being ever so little shaken . 
He was plainly under that strange influence which sometimes prompts men to confide to the new found friend what they will not tell to the old . 
I began life as a working hay trusser , and when I was eighteen I married on the strength o' my calling . 
Would you think me a married man ? I heard in the town that you were a widower . 
Ah , yes you would naturally have heard that . 
Well , I lost my wife nineteen years ago or so by my own fault . 
This is how it came about . 
One summer evening I was travelling for employment , and she was walking at my side , carying the baby , our only child . 
We came to a booth in a country fair . 
I was a drinking man at that time . 
The tinge of indifference which had at first been visible in the Scotchman now disappeared . 
Henchard went on to describe his attempts to find his wife the oath he swore the solitary life he led during the years which followed . 
I have kept my oath for nineteen years , he went on I have risen to what you see me now . 
No wife could I hear of , I say , till this very day . 
And now she has come back . 
Come back , has she ! This morning this very morning . 
And what's to be done ? Can ye no' take her and live with her , and make some amends ? That's what I've planned and proposed . 
But , Farfrae , said Henchard gloomily , by doing right with Susan I wrong another innocent woman . 
It has been my custom for many years to run across to Jersey in the the way of business , particularly in the potato and root season . 
I do a large trade wi' them in that line . 
Ah , now , I never feel like it , said Farfrae . 
Then pray to God that you never may , young man . 
From that she got to have a foolish liking for me . 
Heaven knows why , for I wasn't worth it . 
But being together in the same house , and her feeling warm , we got naturally intimate . 
I won't go into particulars of what our relations were . 
It is enough to say that we honestly meant to marry . 
There arose a scandal , which did me no harm , but was of course ruin to her . 
Though , Farfrae , between you and me , as man and man , I solemnly declare that philandering with womankind has neither been my vice nor my virtue . 
She was terribly careless of appearances , and I was perhaps more , because o' my dreary state and it was through this that the scandal arose . 
At last I was well , and came away . 
and marry me , such as I was . 
Yet , as it stands , I must bitterly disappoint one of these women and it is the second . 
My first duty is to Susan there's no doubt about that . 
They are both in a very melancholy position , and that's true ! murmured Donald . 
They are ! For myself I don't care 'twill all end one way . 
I feel I should like to treat the second , no less than the first , as kindly as a man can in such a case . 
Ah , well , it cannet be helped ! said the other , with philosophic woefulness . 
Now , I haven't told you quite all yet . 
She has grown up in the belief that the sailor to whom I made over her mother , and who is now dead , was her father , and her mother's husband . 
What her mother has always felt , she and I together feel now that we can't proclaim our disgrace to the girl by letting her know the truth . 
Now what would you do ? I want your advice . 
I think I'd run the risk , and tell her the truth . 
I am not going to let her know the truth . 
Her mother and I be going to marry again and it will not only help us to keep our child's respect , but it will be more proper . 
Susan looks upon herself as the sailor's widow , and won't think o' living with me as formerly without another religious ceremony and she's right . 
Farfrae thereupon said no more . 
And I'm sorry for ye ! said Farfrae . 
When he was gone Henchard copied the letter , and , enclosing a cheque , took it to the post office , from which he walked back thoughtfully . 
Can it be that it will go off so easily ! he said . 
Poor thing God knows ! Now then , to make amends to Susan ! . 
As soon as the mother and daughter were comfortably installed , with a white aproned servant and all complete , Henchard paid them a visit , and remained to tea . 
The poor woman smiled faintly she did not enjoy pleasantries on a situation into which she had entered solely for the sake of her girl's reputation . 
She liked them so little , indeed , that there was room for wonder why she had countenanced deception at all , and had not bravely let the girl know her history . 
But the flesh is weak and the true explanation came in due course . 
Not at all , said Henchard , in rough benignity . 
This is only a cottage it costs me next to nothing . 
I shall soon be able to leave everything to him , and have more time to call my own than I've had for these last twenty years . 
His well known haughty indifference to the society of womankind , his silent avoidance of converse with the sex , contributed a piquancy to what would otherwise have been an unromantic matter enough . 
Mrs. Henchard was so pale that the boys called her The Ghost . 
He pressed on the preparations for his union , or rather reunion , with this pale creature in a dogged , unflinching spirit which did credit to his conscientiousness . 
It was a windless morning of warm November rain , which floated down like meal , and lay in a powdery form on the nap of hats and coats . 
Few people had gathered round the church door though they were well packed within . 
The Scotchman , who assisted as groomsman , was of course the only one present , beyond the chief actors , who knew the true situation of the contracting parties . 
That required the special genius of Christopher Coney , Solomon Longways , Buzzford , and their fellows . 
The remark was addressed to a woman who stood behind his shoulder the same who had exhibited Henchard's bad bread in public when Elizabeth and her mother entered Casterbridge . 
Be cust if I'd marry any such as he , or thee either , replied that lady . 
As for thee , Christopher , we know what ye be , and the less said the better . 
And now he's worth ever so much a minute , murmured Longways . 
Nor another to beat me . 
Ah , yes , Cuxsom's gone , and so shall leather breeches ! Yes with the blessing of God leather breeches shall go . 
'Tisn't worth my old while to think of another husband , continued Mrs. Cuxsom . 
And yet I'll lay my life I'm as respectable born as she . 
True your mother was a very good woman I can mind her . 
She were rewarded by the Agricultural Society for having begot the greatest number of healthy children without parish assistance , and other virtuous marvels . 
'Twas that that kept us so low upon ground that great hungry family . 
Where the pigs be many the wash runs thin . 
And well do I for I was getting up husband high at that time one half girl , and t'other half woman , as one may say . 
Well there's a difference between 'em , though he do call himself a teetotaller , said Nance Mockridge . 
She'll wish her cake dough afore she's done of him . 
There's a blue beardy look about 'en and 'twill out in time . 
Stuff he's well enough ! Some folk want their luck buttered . 
If I had a choice as wide as the ocean sea I wouldn't wish for a better man . 
A poor twanking woman like her 'tis a godsend for her , and hardly a pair of jumps or night rail to her name . 
The plain little brougham drove off in the mist , and the idlers dispersed . 
Well , we hardly know how to look at things in these times ! said Solomon . 
I'm in such a low key with drinking nothing but small table ninepenny this last week or two that I shall call and warm up at the Mar'ners as I pass along . 
I don't know but that I may as well go with 'ee , Solomon , said Christopher I'm as clammy as a cockle snail . 
A Martinmas summer of Mrs. Henchard's life set in with her entry into her husband's large house and respectable social orbit and it was as bright as such summers well can be . 
Lest she should pine for deeper affection than he could give he made a point of showing some semblance of it in external action . 
He was as kind to her as a man , mayor , and churchwarden could possibly be . 
The house was large , the rooms lofty , and the landings wide and the two unassuming women scarcely made a perceptible addition to its contents . 
To Elizabeth Jane the time was a most triumphant one . 
The freedom she experienced , the indulgence with which she was treated , went beyond her expectations . 
The reposeful , easy , affluent life to which her mother's marriage had introduced her was , in truth , the beginning of a great change in Elizabeth . 
She found she could have nice personal possessions and ornaments for the asking , and , as the mediaeval saying puts it , Take , have , and keep , are pleasant words . 
With peace of mind came development , and with development beauty . 
The reasonableness of almost everything that Elizabeth did was nowhere more conspicuous than in this question of clothes . 
To keep in the rear of opportunity in matters of indulgence is as valuable a habit as to keep abreast of opportunity in matters of enterprise . 
This unsophisticated girl did it by an innate perceptiveness that was almost genius . 
I won't be too gay on any account , she would say to herself . 
It would be tempting Providence to hurl mother and me down , and afflict us again as He used to do . 
We now see her in a black silk bonnet , velvet mantle or silk spencer , dark dress , and carrying a sunshade . 
In this latter article she drew the line at fringe , and had it plain edged , with a little ivory ring for keeping it closed . 
It was odd about the necessity for that sunshade . 
She discovered that with the clarification of her complexion and the birth of pink cheeks her skin had grown more sensitive to the sun's rays . 
She protected those cheeks forthwith , deeming spotlessness part of womanliness . 
Henchard had become very fond of her , and she went out with him more frequently than with her mother now . 
Her appearance one day was so attractive that he looked at her critically . 
Ay of course to be sure , he replied in his leonine way . 
Do as you like or rather as your mother advises ye . 
'Od send I've nothing to say to't ! Indoors she appeared with her hair divided by a parting that arched like a white rainbow from ear to ear . 
All in front of this line was covered with a thick encampment of curls all behind was dressed smoothly , and drawn to a knob . 
I thought Elizabeth Jane's hair didn't you tell me that Elizabeth Jane's hair promised to be black when she was a baby ? he said to his wife . 
She looked startled , jerked his foot warningly , and murmured , Did I ? As soon as Elizabeth was gone to her own room Henchard resumed . 
Begad , I nearly forgot myself just now ! What I meant was that the girl's hair certainly looked as if it would be darker , when she was a baby . 
It did but they alter so , replied Susan . 
Their hair gets darker , I know but I wasn't aware it lightened ever ? O yes . 
And the same uneasy expression came out on her face , to which the future held the key . 
It passed as Henchard went on Well , so much the better . 
Now Susan , I want to have her called Miss Henchard not Miss Newson . 
I'll advertise it in the Casterbridge paper that's the way they do it . 
But Well , then , I shall do it , he said , peremptorily . 
Surely , if she's willing , you must wish it as much as I ? O yes if she agrees let us do it by all means , she replied . 
She went to Elizabeth Jane , whom she found sewing in her own sitting room upstairs , and told her what had been proposed about her surname . 
Can you agree is it not a slight upon Newson now he's dead and gone ? Elizabeth reflected . 
I'll think of it , mother , she answered . 
Do you wish this change so very much , sir ? she asked . 
Wish it ? Why , my blessed fathers , what an ado you women make about a trifle ! I proposed it that's all . 
Now , 'Lizabeth Jane , just please yourself . 
Curse me if I care what you do . 
Now , you understand , don't 'ee go agreeing to it to please me . 
Here the subject dropped , and nothing more was said , and nothing was done , and Elizabeth still passed as Miss Newson , and not by her legal name . 
Meanwhile the great corn and hay traffic conducted by Henchard throve under the management of Donald Farfrae as it had never thriven before . 
It had formerly moved in jolts now it went on oiled casters . 
The old crude viva voce system of Henchard , in which everything depended upon his memory , and bargains were made by the tongue alone , was swept away . 
She saw that Donald and Mr. Henchard were inseparables . 
When walking together Henchard would lay his arm familiarly on his manager's shoulder , as if Farfrae were a younger brother , bearing so heavily that his slight frame bent under the weight . 
Occasionally she would hear a perfect cannonade of laughter from Henchard , arising from something Donald had said , the latter looking quite innocent and not laughing at all . 
In Henchard's somewhat lonely life he evidently found the young man as desirable for comradeship as he was useful for consultations . 
Donald's brightness of intellect maintained in the corn factor the admiration it had won at the first hour of their meeting . 
'Od damn it , cried Henchard , what's all the world ! I like a fellow to talk to . 
Now come along and hae some supper , and don't take too much thought about things , or ye'll drive me crazy . 
When she walked with her mother , on the other hand , she often beheld the Scotchman looking at them with a curious interest . 
Besides , it was at her mother more particularly than at herself that he looked , to Elizabeth Jane's half conscious , simple minded , perhaps pardonable , disappointment . 
Thus she could not account for this interest by her own attractiveness , and she decided that it might be apparent only a way of turning his eyes that Mr. Farfrae had . 
Casterbridge , as has been hinted , was a place deposited in the block upon a corn field . 
There was no suburb in the modern sense , or transitional intermixture of town and down . 
It stood , with regard to the wide fertile land adjoining , clean cut and distinct , like a chess board on a green tablecloth . 
The corn grown on the upland side of the borough was garnered by farmers who lived in an eastern purlieu called Durnover . 
Barns indeed were so numerous as to alternate with every half dozen houses along the way . 
Here lived burgesses who daily walked the fallow shepherds in an intra mural squeeze . 
Henchard , as was natural , dealt largely with this nursery or bed of small farmers close at hand and his waggons were often down that way . 
The granary was just within the farm yard , and stood on stone staddles , high enough for persons to walk under . 
The gates were open , but nobody was within . 
However , she entered and waited . 
Presently she saw a figure approaching the gate that of Donald Farfrae . 
He looked up at the church clock , and came in . 
Farfrae advanced , imagining himself in solitude , and a few drops of rain beginning to fall he moved and stood under the shelter where she had just been standing . 
Here he leant against one of the staddles , and gave himself up to patience . 
This situation began to be very awkward , and the longer she waited the more awkward it became . 
To emerge from a door just above his head and descend the ladder , and show she had been in hiding there , would look so very foolish that she still waited on . 
He must have heard the slight movement for he looked up , and then ascended the steps . 
Ah it's Miss Newson , he said as soon as he could see into the granary . 
I didn't know you were there . 
I have kept the appointment , and am at your service . 
Didn't you ask me to come here ? Didn't you write this ? Elizabeth held out her note . 
No. Indeed , at no hand would I have thought of it ! And for you didn't you ask me ? This is not your writing ? And he held up his . 
And is that really so ! Then it's somebody wanting to see us both . 
Perhaps we would do well to wait a little longer . 
They watched individual drops of rain creeping down the thatch of the opposite rick straw after straw till they reached the bottom but nobody came , and the granary roof began to drip . 
The person is not likely to be coming , said Farfrae . 
It's a trick perhaps , and if so , it's a great pity to waste our time like this , and so much to be done . 
'Tis a great liberty , said Elizabeth . 
It's true , Miss Newson . 
We'll hear news of this some day depend on't , and who it was that did it . 
I wouldn't stand for it hindering myself but you , Miss Newson I don't mind much , she replied . 
Neither do I. They lapsed again into silence . 
You are anxious to get back to Scotland , I suppose , Mr. Farfrae ? she inquired . 
O no , Miss Newson . 
O no , I don't want to go back ! Yet I'll sing the song to you wi' pleasure whenever you like . 
I could sing it now , and not mind at all ? Thank you , indeed . 
But I fear I must go rain or no . 
Ay ! Then , Miss Newson , ye had better say nothing about this hoax , and take no heed of it . 
And if the person should say anything to you , be civil to him or her , as if you did not mind it so you'll take the clever person's laugh away . 
In speaking his eyes became fixed upon her dress , still sown with wheat husks . 
There's husks and dust on you . 
Perhaps you don't know it ? he said , in tones of extreme delicacy . 
And it's very bad to let rain come upon clothes when there's chaff on them . 
It washes in and spoils them . 
Let me help you blowing is the best . 
At last she was fairly clean , though Farfrae , having got over his first concern at the situation , seemed in no manner of hurry to be gone . 
Ah now I'll go and get ye an umbrella , he said . 
She declined the offer , stepped out and was gone . 
Farfrae walked slowly after , looking thoughtfully at her diminishing figure , and whistling in undertones , As I came down through Cannobie . 
At first Miss Newson's budding beauty was not regarded with much interest by anybody in Casterbridge . 
Donald Farfrae's gaze , it is true , was now attracted by the Mayor's so called step daughter , but he was only one . 
The truth is that she was but a poor illustrative instance of the prophet Baruch's sly definition The virgin that loveth to go gay . 
When she walked abroad she seemed to be occupied with an inner chamber of ideas , and to have slight need for visible objects . 
She formed curious resolves on checking gay fancies in the matter of clothes , because it was inconsistent with her past life to blossom gaudily the moment she had become possessed of money . 
But nothing is more insidious than the evolution of wishes from mere fancies , and of wants from mere wishes . 
Henchard gave Elizabeth Jane a box of delicately tinted gloves one spring day . 
She wanted to wear them to show her appreciation of his kindness , but she had no bonnet that would harmonize . 
As an artistic indulgence she thought she would have such a bonnet . 
When she had a bonnet that would go with the gloves she had no dress that would go with the bonnet . 
It was now absolutely necessary to finish she ordered the requisite article , and found that she had no sunshade to go with the dress . 
In for a penny in for a pound she bought the sunshade , and the whole structure was at last complete . 
As a matter of fact this was not true , but it had its result for as soon as Casterbridge thought her artful it thought her worth notice . 
It is the first time in my life that I have been so much admired , she said to herself though perhaps it is by those whose admiration is not worth having . 
After an unprecedented success one day she came indoors , went upstairs , and leant upon her bed face downwards quite forgetting the possible creasing and damage . 
There is something wrong in all this , she mused . 
Friendship between man and man what a rugged strength there was in it , as evinced by these two . 
And yet the seed that was to lift the foundation of this friendship was at that moment taking root in a chink of its structure . 
It was about six o'clock the men were dropping off homeward one by one . 
Henchard called aloud to him as he went out of the gate , Here Abel Whittle ! Whittle turned , and ran back a few steps . 
Yes , sir , he said , in breathless deprecation , as if he knew what was coming next . 
Once more be in time to morrow morning . 
You see what's to be done , and you hear what I say , and you know I'm not going to be trifled with any longer . 
Then Abel Whittle left , and Henchard and Farfrae and Elizabeth saw no more of them . 
Now there was good reason for this command on Henchard's part . 
Poor Abel , as he was called , had an inveterate habit of over sleeping himself and coming late to his work . 
He did not arrive in time . 
For two mornings in the present week he had kept the others waiting nearly an hour hence Henchard's threat . 
It now remained to be seen what would happen to morrow . 
Six o'clock struck , and there was no Whittle . 
At half past six Henchard entered the yard the waggon was horsed that Abel was to accompany and the other man had been waiting twenty minutes . 
To morrow the waggons must start at four , and if you're not here , stand clear . 
I'll mortify thy flesh for thee ! But let me clear up my points , your worshipful Henchard turned away . 
He asked me and he questioned me , and then 'a wouldn't hear my points ! said Abel , to the yard in general . 
Before either of the other men could run to Abel's and warn him Henchard appeared in the garden doorway . 
Henchard went off , entered Abel's house , a little cottage in Back Street , the door of which was never locked because the inmates had nothing to lose . 
Out of bed , sir , and off to the granary , or you leave my employ to day ! 'Tis to teach ye a lesson . 
Whittle then trotted on down Back Street , Henchard walking sternly behind . 
For maircy's sake , what object's this ? said Farfrae , following Abel into the yard , Henchard being some way in the rear by this time . 
Go and dress yourself instantly Whittle . 
Hullo , hullo ! said Henchard , coming up behind . 
Who's sending him back ? All the men looked towards Farfrae . 
I am , said Donald . 
I say this joke has been carried far enough . 
And I say it hasn't ! Get up in the waggon , Whittle . 
Not if I am manager , said Farfrae . 
He either goes home , or I march out of this yard for good . 
Henchard looked at him with a face stern and red . 
But he paused for a moment , and their eyes met . 
Donald went up to him , for he saw in Henchard's look that he began to regret this . 
Come , said Donald quietly , a man o' your position should ken better , sir ! It is tyrannical and no worthy of you . 
'Tis not tyrannical ! murmured Henchard , like a sullen boy . 
Henchard looked on the ground , said nothing more , and turned away . 
During the day Farfrae learnt from the men that Henchard had kept Abel's old mother in coals and snuff all the previous winter , which made him less antagonistic to the corn factor . 
He's master here ! Morally he was there could be no doubt of it . 
Henchard , who had hitherto been the most admired man in his circle , was the most admired no longer . 
One day the daughters of a deceased farmer in Durnover wanted an opinion of the value of their haystack , and sent a messenger to ask Mr. Farfrae to oblige them with one . 
The messenger , who was a child , met in the yard not Farfrae , but Henchard . 
Very well , he said . 
But please will Mr. Farfrae come ? said the child . 
I am going that way . 
Why Mr. Farfrae ? said Henchard , with the fixed look of thought . 
Why do people always want Mr. Farfrae ? I suppose because they like him so that's what they say . 
Oh , there's more ? Of course there's more ! What besides ? Come , here's a sixpence for a fairing . 
'And he's better tempered , and Henchard's a fool to him , they say . 
And when some of the women were a walking home they said , 'He's a diment he's a chap o' wax he's the best he's the horse for my money , says they . 
And they said , 'He's the most understanding man o' them two by long chalks . 
I wish he was the master instead of Henchard , they said . 
They'll talk any nonsense , Henchard replied with covered gloom . 
Well , you can go now . 
On his way he overtook Farfrae . 
They walked on together , Henchard looking mostly on the ground . 
You're no yoursel' the day ? Donald inquired . 
Yes , I am very well , said Henchard . 
But ye are a bit down surely ye are down ? Why , there's nothing to be angry about ! 'Tis splendid stuff that we've got from Blackmoor Vale . 
By the by , the people in Durnover want their hay valued . 
How could I forget ? Do you care so very much about hurting folks' feelings ? observed Henchard with a half sneer . 
Why should you say it think it ? The cloud lifted from Henchard's brow , and as Donald finished the corn merchant turned to him , regarding his breast rather than his face . 
I have been hearing things that vexed me , he said . 
'Twas that made me short in my manner made me overlook what you really are . 
Now , I don't want to go in here about this hay Farfrae , you can do it better than I. They sent for 'ee , too . 
I have to attend a meeting of the Town Council at eleven , and 'tis drawing on for't . 
They parted thus in renewed friendship , Donald forbearing to ask Henchard for meanings that were not very plain to him . 
On this account Henchard's manner towards Farfrae insensibly became more reserved . 
The corn factor seldom or never again put his arm upon the young man's shoulder so as to nearly weigh him down with the pressure of mechanized friendship . 
He left off coming to Donald's lodgings and shouting into the passage . 
Hoy , Farfrae , boy , come and have some dinner with us ! Don't sit here in solitary confinement ! But in the daily routine of their business there was little change . 
Thus their lives rolled on till a day of public rejoicing was suggested to the country at large in celebration of a national event that had recently taken place . 
For some time Casterbridge , by nature slow , made no response . 
Have as many cloths as you like , Henchard replied . 
When his manager had gone about the business Henchard was fired with emulation . 
It certainly had been very remiss of him , as Mayor , he thought , to call no meeting ere this , to discuss what should be done on this holiday . 
But Farfrae had been so cursed quick in his movements as to give old fashioned people in authority no chance of the initiative . 
To this they quite readily agreed , the majority being fine old crusted characters who had a decided taste for living without worry . 
So Henchard set about his preparations for a really brilliant thing such as should be worthy of the venerable town . 
He had grown so dependent upon Donald that he could scarcely resist calling him in to consult . 
But by sheer self coercion he refrained . 
Everybody applauded the Mayor's proposed entertainment , especially when it became known that he meant to pay for it all himself . 
On one side it sloped to the river Froom , and from any point a view was obtained of the country round for many miles . 
This pleasant upland was to be the scene of Henchard's exploit . 
They erected greasy poles for climbing , with smoked hams and local cheeses at the top . 
There were also provided wheelbarrows for racing , donkeys for the same , a stage for boxing , wrestling , and drawing blood generally sacks for jumping in . 
Moreover , not forgetting his principles , Henchard provided a mammoth tea , of which everybody who lived in the borough was invited to partake without payment . 
The tables were laid parallel with the inner slope of the rampart , and awnings were stretched overhead . 
He was easy in his mind now , for his own preparations far transcended these . 
Henchard wished he had not been quite so sure about the continuance of a fair season . 
But it was too late to modify or postpone , and the proceedings went on . 
At twelve o'clock the rain began to fall , small and steady , commencing and increasing so insensibly that it was difficult to state exactly when dry weather ended or wet established itself . 
In an hour the slight moisture resolved itself into a monotonous smiting of earth by heaven , in torrents to which no end could be prognosticated . 
A number of people had heroically gathered in the field but by three o'clock Henchard discerned that his project was doomed to end in failure . 
But towards six the storm abated , and a drier breeze shook the moisture from the grass bents . 
It seemed possible to carry out the programme after all . 
The awning was set up again the band was called out from its shelter , and ordered to begin , and where the tables had stood a place was cleared for dancing . 
But where are the folk ? said Henchard , after the lapse of half an hour , during which time only two men and a woman had stood up to dance . 
The shops are all shut . 
Why don't they come ? They are at Farfrae's affair in the West Walk , answered a Councilman who stood in the field with the Mayor . 
A few , I suppose . 
But where are the body o 'em ? All out of doors are there . 
Then the more fools they ! Henchard walked away moodily . 
In a short time nothing was left in the field but a few hurdles , the tents , and the poles . 
Henchard returned to his house , had tea with his wife and daughter , and then walked out . 
He soon saw that the tendency of all promenaders was towards a particular spot in the Walks , and eventually proceeded thither himself . 
The end towards the wind was enclosed , the other end was open . 
Henchard went round and saw the interior . 
In form it was like the nave of a cathedral with one gable removed , but the scene within was anything but devotional . 
For a moment Henchard could not help laughing . 
All the town crowded to the Walk , such a delightful idea of a ballroom never having occurred to the inhabitants before . 
The dancing progressed with unabated spirit , and Henchard walked and waited till his wife should be disposed to go home . 
A man must be a headstrong stunpoll to think folk would go up to that bleak place to day . 
The other answered that people said it was not only in such things as those that the Mayor was wanting . 
Where would his business be if it were not for this young fellow ? 'Twas verily Fortune sent him to Henchard . 
His accounts were like a bramblewood when Mr. Farfrae came . 
But now this accomplished young man does it all by ciphering and mensuration . 
O yes , everybody is full of him , and the care Mr. Henchard has to keep him , to be sure ! concluded this gentleman . 
But he won't do it for long , good now , said the other . 
No ! said Henchard to himself behind the tree . 
Or if he do , he'll be honeycombed clean out of all the character and standing that he's built up in these eighteen year ! He went back to the dancing pavilion . 
It was soon over , and the girl looked at Henchard for approval but he did not give it . 
He seemed not to see her . 
Look here , Farfrae , he said , like one whose mind was elsewhere , I'll go to Port Bredy Great Market to morrow myself . 
You can stay and put things right in your clothes box , and recover strength to your knees after your vagaries . 
He planted on Donald an antagonistic glare that had begun as a smile . 
Some other townsmen came up , and Donald drew aside . 
What's this , Henchard , said Alderman Tubber , applying his thumb to the corn factor like a cheese taster . 
You should have taken a leaf out of his book , and have had your sports in a sheltered place like this . 
But you didn't think of it , you see and he did , and that's where he's beat you . 
He'll be top sawyer soon of you two , and carry all afore him , added jocular Mr. Tubber . 
No , said Henchard gloomily . 
He won't be that , because he's shortly going to leave me . 
He looked towards Donald , who had come near . 
Henchard went home , apparently satisfied . 
But in the morning , when his jealous temper had passed away , his heart sank within him at what he had said and done . 
He was the more disturbed when he found that this time Farfrae was determined to take him at his word . 
Elizabeth Jane had perceived from Henchard's manner that in assenting to dance she had made a mistake of some kind . 
In her simplicity she did not know what it was till a hint from a nodding acquaintance enlightened her . 
As the Mayor's step daughter , she learnt , she had not been quite in her place in treading a measure amid such a mixed throng as filled the dancing pavilion . 
The latter moved on into the dark dense old avenues , or rather vaults of living woodwork , which ran along the town boundary , and stood reflecting . 
A man followed in a few minutes , and her face being to wards the shine from the tent he recognized her . 
It was Farfrae just come from the dialogue with Henchard which had signified his dismissal . 
And it's you , Miss Newson ? and I've been looking for ye everywhere ! he said , overcoming a sadness imparted by the estrangement with the corn merchant . 
May I walk on with you as far as your street corner ? She thought there might be something wrong in this , but did not utter any objection . 
So together they went on , first down the West Walk , and then into the Bowling Walk , till Farfrae said , It's like that I'm going to leave you soon . 
She faltered , Why ? Oh as a mere matter of business nothing more . 
But we'll not concern ourselves about it it is for the best . 
I hoped to have another dance with you . 
She said she could not dance in any proper way . 
Nay , but you do ! It's the feeling for it rather than the learning of steps that makes pleasant dancers . 
But that's not for me ! What he would have asked her he did not say , and instead of encouraging him she remained incompetently silent . 
In consciousness of this they stopped . 
I never found out who it was that sent us to Durnover granary on a fool's errand that day , said Donald , in his undulating tones . 
Did ye ever know yourself , Miss Newson ? Never , said she . 
I wonder why they did it ! For fun , perhaps . 
Perhaps it was not for fun . 
That I'm sure we won't ! she said earnestly . 
I wish you wouldn't go at all . 
They had got into the lamplight . 
Now , I'll think over that , said Donald Farfrae . 
And I'll not come up to your door but part from you here lest it make your father more angry still . 
They parted , Farfrae returning into the dark Bowling Walk , and Elizabeth Jane going up the street . 
Without any consciousness of what she was doing she started running with all her might till she reached her father's door . 
O dear me what am I at ? she thought , as she pulled up breathless . 
Indoors she fell to conjecturing the meaning of Farfrae's enigmatic words about not daring to ask her what he fain would . 
Would Mr. Farfrae stay in Casterbridge despite his words and her father's dismissal ? His occult breathings to her might be solvable by his course in that respect . 
The useless scrap she took indoors , and began to copy the calligraphy , which she much admired . 
The letter began Dear Sir , and presently writing on a loose slip Elizabeth Jane , she laid the latter over Sir , making the phrase Dear Elizabeth Jane . 
When she saw the effect a quick red ran up her face and warmed her through , though nobody was there to see what she had done . 
She quickly tore up the slip , and threw it away . 
After this she grew cool and laughed at herself , walked about the room , and laughed again not joyfully , but distressfully rather . 
It was quickly known in Casterbridge that Farfrae and Henchard had decided to dispense with each other . 
Elizabeth Jane's anxiety to know if Farfrae were going away from the town reached a pitch that disturbed her , for she could no longer conceal from herself the cause . 
At length the news reached her that he was not going to leave the place . 
I'd have shared my last crust with that young fellow at one time , I liked him so well . 
Henchard was less popular now than he had been when nearly two years before , they had voted him to the chief magistracy on account of his amazing energy . 
While they had collectively profited by this quality of the corn factor's they had been made to wince individually on more than one occasion . 
So he went out of the hall and down the street alone . 
Reaching home he seemed to recollect something with a sour satisfaction . 
Seeing how he looked when she entered she appeared alarmed . 
Nothing to find fault with , he said , observing her concern . 
Only I want to caution you , my dear . 
That man , Farfrae it is about him . 
I've seen him talking to you two or three times he danced with 'ee at the rejoicings , and came home with 'ee . 
Now , now , no blame to you . 
But just harken Have you made him any foolish promise ? Gone the least bit beyond sniff and snaff at all ? No. I have promised him nothing . 
All's well that ends well . 
I particularly wish you not to see him again . 
You promise ? She hesitated for a moment , and then said Yes , if you much wish it . 
She on her part has promised to welcome no more addresses from you and I trust , therefore , you will not attempt to force them upon her . 
But such a scheme for buying over a rival had nothing to recommend it to the Mayor's headstrong faculties . 
With all domestic finesse of that kind he was hopelessly at variance . 
There was , it seemed to the younger man , room for both of them and to spare . 
The town was small , but the corn and hay trade was proportionately large , and with his native sagacity he saw opportunity for a share of it . 
He was once my friend , said Farfrae , and it's not for me to take business from him . 
I am sorry to disappoint you , but I cannot hurt the trade of a man who's been so kind to me . 
In spite of this praiseworthy course the Scotchman's trade increased . 
Like Jacob in Padan Aram , he would no sooner humbly limit himself to the ringstraked and spotted exceptions of trade than the ringstraked and spotted would multiply and prevail . 
But most probably luck had little to do with it . 
Farfrae duly received the request to discontinue attentions to Elizabeth Jane . 
His acts of that kind had been so slight that the request was almost superfluous . 
Thus the incipient attachment was stifled down . 
A time came when , avoid collision with his former friend as he might , Farfrae was compelled , in sheer self defence , to close with Henchard in mortal commercial combat . 
He could no longer parry the fierce attacks of the latter by simple avoidance . 
As soon as their war of prices began everybody was interested , and some few guessed the end . 
Almost every Saturday they encountered each other amid the crowd of farmers which thronged about the market place in the weekly course of their business . 
From that day Donald Farfrae's name was seldom mentioned in Henchard's house . 
There came a shock which had been foreseen for some time by Elizabeth , as the box passenger foresees the approaching jerk from some channel across the highway . 
Her mother was ill too unwell to leave her room . 
Henchard , who treated her kindly , except in moments of irritation , sent at once for the richest , busiest doctor , whom he supposed to be the best . 
Bedtime came , and they burnt a light all night . 
In a day or two she rallied . 
Elizabeth , who had been staying up , did not appear at breakfast on the second morning , and Henchard sat down alone . 
He was startled to see a letter for him from Jersey in a writing he knew too well , and had expected least to behold again . 
The writer said that she at length perceived how impossible it would be for any further communications to proceed between them now that his re marriage had taken place . 
That such reunion had been the only straightforward course open to him she was bound to admit . 
I thus look upon the whole as a misfortune of mine , and not a fault of yours . 
So that , Michael , I must ask you to overlook those letters with which I pestered you day after day in the heat of my feelings . 
They were written whilst I thought your conduct to me cruel but now I know more particulars of the position you were in I see how inconsiderate my reproaches were . 
Speak of it I know you will not and I can trust you not to write of it . 
One safe guard more remains to be mentioned that no writings of mine , or trifling articles belonging to me , should be left in your possession through neglect or forgetfulness . 
To this end may I request you to return to me any such you may have , particularly the letters written in the first abandonment of feeling . 
For the handsome sum you forwarded to me as a plaster to the wound I heartily thank you . 
I am now on my way to Bristol , to see my only relative . 
She is rich , and I hope will do something for me . 
I shall return through Casterbridge and Budmouth , where I shall take the packet boat . 
I should prefer this plan of receiving them to having them sent . 
I remain still , yours ever , LUCETTA Henchard breathed heavily . 
He would have preferred not to see her but deeming that there could be no great harm in acquiescing thus far , he went at dusk and stood opposite the coach office . 
The evening was chilly , and the coach was late . 
Henchard crossed over to it while the horses were being changed but there was no Lucetta inside or out . 
Concluding that something had happened to modify her arrangements he gave the matter up and went home , not without a sense of relief . 
Meanwhile Mrs. Henchard was weakening visibly . 
She could not go out of doors any more . 
One day , after much thinking which seemed to distress her , she said she wanted to write something . 
A desk was put upon her bed with pen and paper , and at her request she was left alone . 
She had directed it in these words MR . 
NOT TO BE OPENED TILL ELIZABETH JANE'S WEDDING DAY . 
The latter sat up with her mother to the utmost of her strength night after night . 
To learn to take the universe seriously there is no quicker way than to watch to be a waker , as the country people call it . 
Her eyes fell together she was awake , yet she was asleep . 
A word from her mother roused her . 
It was not to make fools of you it was done to bring you together . 
Why ? said Elizabeth , with a start . 
I wanted you to marry Mr. Farfrae . 
O mother ! Elizabeth Jane bent down her head so much that she looked quite into her own lap . 
But as her mother did not go on , she said , What reason ? Well , I had a reason . 
I wish it could have been in my time ! But there nothing is as you wish it ! Henchard hates him . 
Perhaps they'll be friends again , murmured the girl . 
I don't know I don't know . 
After this her mother was silent , and dozed and she spoke on the subject no more . 
Some little time later on Farfrae was passing Henchard's house on a Sunday morning , when he observed that the blinds were all down . 
He rang the bell so softly that it only sounded a single full note and a small one and then he was informed that Mrs. Henchard was dead just dead that very hour . 
Mrs. Cuxsom , who had been standing there for an indefinite time with her pitcher , was describing the incidents of Mrs. Henchard's death , as she had learnt them from the nurse . 
And she was white as marble stone , said Mrs. Cuxsom . 
And likewise such a thoughtful woman , too ah , poor soul that a' minded every little thing that wanted tending . 
'And when you've used 'em , and my eyes don't open no more , bury the pennies , good souls and don't ye go spending 'em , for I shouldn't like it . 
And open the windows as soon as I am carried out , and make it as cheerful as you can for Elizabeth Jane . 
Ah , poor heart ! Well , and Martha did it , and buried the ounce pennies in the garden . 
But if ye'll believe words , that man , Christopher Coney , went and dug 'em up , and spent 'em at the Three Mariners . 
'Faith , he said , 'why should death rob life o' fourpence ? Death's not of such good report that we should respect 'en to that extent , says he . 
'Twas a cannibal deed ! deprecated her listeners . 
Gad , then I won't quite ha'e it , said Solomon Longways . 
I say it to day , and 'tis a Sunday morning , and I wouldn't speak wrongfully for a zilver zixpence at such a time . 
I don't see noo harm in it . 
To respect the dead is sound doxology and I wouldn't sell skellintons leastwise respectable skellintons to be varnished for 'natomies , except I were out o' work . 
But money is scarce , and throats get dry . 
Why SHOULD death rob life o' fourpence ? I say there was no treason in it . 
Well , poor soul she's helpless to hinder that or anything now , answered Mother Cuxsom . 
Henchard and Elizabeth sat conversing by the fire . 
Elizabeth , do you think much of old times ? said Henchard . 
Yes , sir often , she said . 
Who do you put in your pictures of 'em ? Mother and father nobody else hardly . 
Henchard always looked like one bent on resisting pain when Elizabeth Jane spoke of Richard Newson as father . 
Ah ! I am out of all that , am I not ? he said . 
Was Newson a kind father ? Yes , sir very . 
Henchard's face settled into an expression of stolid loneliness which gradually modulated into something softer . 
Suppose I had been your real father ? he said . 
Would you have cared for me as much as you cared for Richard Newson ? I can't think it , she said quickly . 
I can think of no other as my father , except my father . 
Henchard's wife was dissevered from him by death his friend and helper Farfrae by estrangement Elizabeth Jane by ignorance . 
It seemed to him that only one of them could possibly be recalled , and that was the girl . 
His mind began vibrating between the wish to reveal himself to her and the policy of leaving well alone , till he could no longer sit still . 
He walked up and down , and then he came and stood behind her chair , looking down upon the top of her head . 
He could no longer restrain his impulse . 
What did your mother tell you about me my history ? he asked . 
That you were related by marriage . 
She should have told more before you knew me ! Then my task would not have been such a hard one . 
Elizabeth , it is I who am your father , and not Richard Newson . 
Shame alone prevented your wretched parents from owning this to you while both of 'em were alive . 
The back of Elizabeth's head remained still , and her shoulders did not denote even the movements of breathing . 
Henchard went on I'd rather have your scorn , your fear , anything than your ignorance 'tis that I hate ! Your mother and I were man and wife when we were young . 
What you saw was our second marriage . 
Your mother was too honest . 
We had thought each other dead and Newson became her husband . 
This was the nearest approach Henchard could make to the full truth . 
As far as he personally was concerned he would have screened nothing but he showed a respect for the young girl's sex and years worthy of a better man . 
Don't cry don't cry ! said Henchard , with vehement pathos , I can't bear it , I won't bear it . 
I don't want you to come to me all of a sudden , said Henchard in jerks , and moving like a great tree in a wind . 
No , Elizabeth , I don't . 
I'll go away and not see you till to morrow , or when you like , and then I'll show 'ee papers to prove my words . 
There , I am gone , and won't disturb you any more . 
'Twas I that chose your name , my daughter your mother wanted it Susan . 
There , don't forget 'twas I gave you your name ! He went out at the door and shut her softly in , and she heard him go away into the garden . 
But he had not done . 
Before she had moved , or in any way recovered from the effect of his disclosure , he reappeared . 
One word more , Elizabeth , he said . 
You'll take my surname now hey ? Your mother was against it , but it will be much more pleasant to me . 
'Tis legally yours , you know . 
But nobody need know that . 
You shall take it as if by choice . 
Well , well usage is everything in these matters . 
I wonder why mother didn't wish it ? Oh , some whim of the poor soul's . 
Now get a bit of paper and draw up a paragraph as I shall tell you . 
But let's have a light . 
I can see by the firelight , she answered . 
It was done , and fastened up , and directed to the office of the Casterbridge Chronicle . 
But I won't trouble you with them till to morrow . 
Good night , my Elizabeth Jane ! He was gone before the bewildered girl could realize what it all meant , or adjust her filial sense to the new center of gravity . 
She was thankful that he had left her to herself for the evening , and sat down over the fire . 
Here she remained in silence , and wept not for her mother now , but for the genial sailor Richard Newson , to whom she seemed doing a wrong . 
Henchard in the meantime had gone upstairs . 
Papers of a domestic nature he kept in a drawer in his bedroom , and this he unlocked . 
Before turning them over he leant back and indulged in reposeful thought . 
Elizabeth was his at last and she was a girl of such good sense and kind heart that she would be sure to like him . 
He was the kind of man to whom some human object for pouring out his heart upon were it emotive or were it choleric was almost a necessity . 
He bent over the drawer again , and proceeded in his search . 
Among the other papers had been placed the contents of his wife's little desk , the keys of which had been handed to him at her request . 
Here was the letter addressed to him with the restriction , NOT TO BE OPENED TILL ELIZABETH JANE'S WEDDING DAY . 
Mrs. Henchard , though more patient than her husband , had been no practical hand at anything . 
The seal had cracked , and the letter was open . 
Henchard had no reason to suppose the restriction one of serious weight , and his feeling for his late wife had not been of the nature of deep respect . 
I hope you will understand why I think you will though perhaps you may not forgive me . 
But , dear Michael , I have done it for the best . 
I shall be in my grave when you read this , and Elizabeth Jane will have a home . 
Don't curse me Mike think of how I was situated . 
I can hardly write it , but here it is . 
Elizabeth Jane is not your Elizabeth Jane the child who was in my arms when you sold me . 
No she died three months after that , and this living one is my other husband's . 
I christened her by the same name we had given to the first , and she filled up the ache I felt at the other's loss . 
Michael , I am dying , and I might have held my tongue but I could not . 
Tell her husband of this or not , as you may judge and forgive , if you can , a woman you once deeply wronged , as she forgives you . 
SUSAN HENCHARD Her husband regarded the paper as if it were a window pane through which he saw for miles . 
His lips twitched , and he seemed to compress his frame , as if to bear better . 
This much scourging , then , it is for me . 
But now through his passionate head there stormed this thought that the blasting disclosure was what he had deserved . 
His wife's extreme reluctance to have the girl's name altered from Newson to Henchard was now accounted for fully . 
It furnished another illustration of that honesty in dishonesty which had characterized her in other things . 
Henchard softly turned the handle , entered , and shading the light , approached the bedside . 
Gradually bringing the light from behind a screening curtain he held it in such a manner that it fell slantwise on her face without shining on her eyes . 
He steadfastly regarded her features . 
They were fair his were dark . 
But this was an unimportant preliminary . 
In sleep there come to the surface buried genealogical facts , ancestral curves , dead men's traits , which the mobility of daytime animation screens and overwhelms . 
In the present statuesque repose of the young girl's countenance Richard Newson's was unmistakably reflected . 
He could not endure the sight of her , and hastened away . 
Misery taught him nothing more than defiant endurance of it . 
His wife was dead , and the first impulse for revenge died with the thought that she was beyond him . 
He looked out at the night as at a fiend . 
Yet they had developed naturally . 
If he had not revealed his past history to Elizabeth he would not have searched the drawer for papers , and so on . 
The mockery was , that he should have no sooner taught a girl to claim the shelter of his paternity than he discovered her to have no kinship with him . 
This ironical sequence of things angered him like an impish trick from a fellow creature . 
Like Prester John's , his table had been spread , and infernal harpies had snatched up the food . 
He went out of the house , and moved sullenly onward down the pavement till he came to the bridge at the bottom of the High Street . 
Here he turned in upon a bypath on the river bank , skirting the north eastern limits of the town . 
These precincts embodied the mournful phases of Casterbridge life , as the south avenues embodied its cheerful moods . 
The Casterbridge doctors must have pined away for want of sufficient nourishment but for the configuration of the landscape on the north eastern side . 
Here were ruins of a Franciscan priory , and a mill attached to the same , the water of which roared down a back hatch like the voice of desolation . 
Above the cliff , and behind the river , rose a pile of buildings , and in the front of the pile a square mass cut into the sky . 
It was like a pedestal lacking its statue . 
The exaggeration which darkness imparted to the glooms of this region impressed Henchard more than he had expected . 
The lugubrious harmony of the spot with his domestic situation was too perfect for him , impatient of effects scenes , and adumbrations . 
For the sufferings of that night , engendered by his bitter disappointment , he might well have been pitied . 
He was like one who had half fainted , and could neither recover nor complete the swoon . 
The morning came after this night of unrest , and with it the necessity for a plan . 
He was far too self willed to recede from a position , especially as it would involve humiliation . 
His daughter he had asserted her to be , and his daughter she should always think herself , no matter what hyprocrisy it involved . 
But he was ill prepared for the first step in this new situation . 
The moment he came into the breakfast room Elizabeth advanced with open confidence to him and took him by the arm . 
I have thought and thought all night of it , she said frankly . 
And I see that everything must be as you say . 
And I am going to look upon you as the father that you are , and not to call you Mr. Henchard any more . 
It is so plain to me now . 
Indeed , father , it is . 
but that is not the same thing as being one's real father after all . 
Now , father , breakfast is ready ! she said cheerfully . 
Henchard bent and kissed her cheek . 
The moment and the act he had prefigured for weeks with a thrill of pleasure yet it was no less than a miserable insipidity to him now that it had come . 
His reinstation of her mother had been chiefly for the girl's sake , and the fruition of the whole scheme was such dust and ashes as this . 
Of all the enigmas which ever confronted a girl there can have been seldom one like that which followed Henchard's announcement of himself to Elizabeth as her father . 
The coldness soon broke out into open chiding . 
One grievous failing of Elizabeth's was her occasional pretty and picturesque use of dialect words those terrible marks of the beast to the truly genteel . 
I meant 'Stay where you are , father , she said , in a low , humble voice . 
I ought to have been more careful . 
He made no reply , and went out of the room . 
These improvements , however , are somewhat in advance of the story . 
Henchard , being uncultivated himself , was the bitterest critic the fair girl could possibly have had of her own lapses really slight now , for she read omnivorously . 
A gratuitous ordeal was in store for her in the matter of her handwriting . 
She was passing the dining room door one evening , and had occasion to go in for something . 
It was not till she had opened the door that she knew the Mayor was there in the company of a man with whom he transacted business . 
Here , Elizabeth Jane , he said , looking round at her , just write down what I tell you a few words of an agreement for me and this gentleman to sign . 
I am a poor tool with a pen . 
Be jowned , and so be I , said the gentleman . 
She brought forward blotting book , paper , and ink , and sat down . 
Now then 'An agreement entered into this sixteenth day of October' write that first . 
She started the pen in an elephantine march across the sheet . 
It was a splendid round , bold hand of her own conception , a style that would have stamped a woman as Minerva's own in more recent days . 
Her considerate disposition became a pitfall to her now . 
She was , it must be admitted , sometimes provokingly and unnecessarily willing to saddle herself with manual labours . 
She would go to the kitchen instead of ringing , Not to make Phoebe come up twice . 
These domestic exhibitions were the small protruding needlerocks which suggested rather than revealed what was underneath . 
But his passion had less terror for her than his coldness . 
The increasing frequency of the latter mood told her the sad news that he disliked her with a growing dislike . 
The more interesting that her appearance and manners became under the softening influences which she could now command , and in her wisdom did command , the more she seemed to estrange him . 
Sometimes she caught him looking at her with a louring invidiousness that she could hardly bear . 
Not knowing his secret it was cruel mockery that she should for the first time excite his animosity when she had taken his surname . 
But the most terrible ordeal was to come . 
Elizabeth had latterly been accustomed of an afternoon to present a cup of cider or ale and bread and cheese to Nance Mockridge , who worked in the yard wimbling hay bonds . 
Nance accepted this offering thankfully at first afterwards as a matter of course . 
Elizabeth , come here ! said Henchard and she obeyed . 
Why do you lower yourself so confoundedly ? he said with suppressed passion . 
O no , she hadn't . 
'Twere not for charity but for hire and at a public house in this town ! It is not true ! cried Henchard indignantly . 
Just ask her , said Nance , folding her naked arms in such a manner that she could comfortably scratch her elbows . 
Henchard glanced at Elizabeth Jane , whose complexion , now pink and white from confinement , lost nearly all of the former colour . 
What does this mean ? he said to her . 
Anything or nothing ? It is true , said Elizabeth Jane . 
But it was only Did you do it , or didn't you ? Where was it ? At the Three Mariners one evening for a little while , when we were staying there . 
Nance glanced triumphantly at Henchard , and sailed into the barn for assuming that she was to be discharged on the instant she had resolved to make the most of her victory . 
Henchard , however , said nothing about discharging her . 
Unduly sensitive on such points by reason of his own past , he had the look of one completely ground down to the last indignity . 
Elizabeth followed him to the house like a culprit but when she got inside she could not see him . 
Nor did she see him again that day . 
He mostly dined with the farmers at the market room of one of the two chief hotels , leaving her in utter solitude . 
Could he have seen how she made use of those silent hours he might have found reason to reserve his judgment on her quality . 
She read and took notes incessantly , mastering facts with painful laboriousness , but never flinching from her self imposed task . 
She began the study of Latin , incited by the Roman characteristics of the town she lived in . 
to a front chamber overlooking the street but as for the young man , whenever he passed the house he seldom or never turned his head . 
Winter had almost come , and unsettled weather made her still more dependent upon indoor resources . 
But there were certain early winter days in Casterbridge days of firmamental exhaustion which followed angry south westerly tempests when , if the sun shone , the air was like velvet . 
Half past ten in the morning was about her hour for seeking this spot a time when the town avenues were deserted as the avenues of Karnac . 
Business had long since passed down them into its daily cells , and Leisure had not arrived there . 
So Elizabeth Jane walked and read , or looked over the edge of the book to think , and thus reached the churchyard . 
There , approaching her mother's grave she saw a solitary dark figure in the middle of the gravel walk . 
This figure , too , was reading but not from a book the words which engrossed it being the inscription on Mrs. Henchard's tombstone . 
Indeed , comparatively indifferent as Elizabeth Jane was to dress , unless for some temporary whim or purpose , her eyes were arrested by the artistic perfection of the lady's appearance . 
Her gait , too , had a flexuousness about it , which seemed to avoid angularity . 
It was a revelation to Elizabeth that human beings could reach this stage of external development she had never suspected it . 
She felt all the freshness and grace to be stolen from herself on the instant by the neighbourhood of such a stranger . 
And this was in face of the fact that Elizabeth could now have been writ handsome , while the young lady was simply pretty . 
Had she been envious she might have hated the woman but she did not do that she allowed herself the pleasure of feeling fascinated . 
She wondered where the lady had come from . 
The stranger presently moved from the tombstone of Mrs. Henchard , and vanished behind the corner of the wall . 
Elizabeth went to the tomb herself beside it were two foot prints distinct in the soil , signifying that the lady had stood there a long time . 
She returned homeward , musing on what she had seen , as she might have mused on a rainbow or the Northern Lights , a rare butterfly or a cameo . 
Interesting as things had been out of doors , at home it turned out to be one of her bad days . 
This caused the unfortunate discovery that she had played the waiting maid in the town of which he was Mayor to rankle in his mind yet more poisonously . 
He had learnt by personal inquiry at the time that it was to Donald Farfrae that treacherous upstart that she had thus humiliated herself . 
Ever since the evening of his wife's arrival with her daughter there had been something in the air which had changed his luck . 
That dinner at the King's Arms with his friends had been Henchard's Austerlitz he had had his successes since , but his course had not been upward . 
He was not to be numbered among the aldermen that Peerage of burghers as he had expected to be , and the consciousness of this soured him to day . 
Well , where have you been ? he said to her with offhand laconism . 
I've been strolling in the Walks and churchyard , father , till I feel quite leery . 
She clapped her hand to her mouth , but too late . 
This was just enough to incense Henchard after the other crosses of the day . 
I WON'T have you talk like that ! he thundered . 
One would think you worked upon a farm ! One day I learn that you lend a hand in public houses . 
Then I hear you talk like a clodhopper . 
I'm burned , if it goes on , this house can't hold us two . 
I therefore withdraw my objection excepting in this that the business be not carried on in my house . 
Yours , M. HENCHARD Mr. Farfrae . 
Unduly depressed by a sense of her own superfluity she thought he probably scorned her and quite broken in spirit sat down on a bench . 
Elizabeth Jane looked confounded for a moment , knowing she had been overheard , though there was pleasure in her confusion . 
Yes , I heard you , said the lady , in a vivacious voice , answering her look . 
What can have happened ? I don't I can't tell you , said Elizabeth , putting her hand to her face to hide a quick flush that had come . 
There was no movement or word for a few seconds then the girl felt that the young lady was sitting down beside her . 
I guess how it is with you , said the latter . 
She waved her hand towards the tombstone . 
Elizabeth looked up at her as if inquiring of herself whether there should be confidence . 
The lady's manner was so desirous , so anxious , that the girl decided there should be confidence . 
It was my mother , she said , my only friend . 
But your father , Mr. Henchard . 
He is living ? Yes , he is living , said Elizabeth Jane . 
Is he not kind to you ? I've no wish to complain of him . 
There has been a disagreement ? A little . 
Perhaps you were to blame , suggested the stranger . 
I was in many ways , sighed the meek Elizabeth . 
I swept up the coals when the servants ought to have done it and I said I was leery and he was angry with me . 
The lady seemed to warm towards her for that reply . 
Do you know the impression your words give me ? she said ingenuously . 
That he is a hot tempered man a little proud perhaps ambitious but not a bad man . 
Her anxiety not to condemn Henchard while siding with Elizabeth was curious . 
O no certainly not BAD , agreed the honest girl . 
And he has not even been unkind to me till lately since mother died . 
But it has been very much to bear while it has lasted . 
All is owing to my defects , I daresay and my defects are owing to my history . 
What is your history ? Elizabeth Jane looked wistfully at her questioner . 
She found that her questioner was looking at her , turned her eyes down and then seemed compelled to look back again . 
My history is not gay or attractive , she said . 
And yet I can tell it , if you really want to know . 
Contrary to the girl's expectation her new friend was not shocked . 
This cheered her and it was not till she thought of returning to that home in which she had been treated so roughly of late that her spirits fell . 
I don't know how to return , she murmured . 
I think of going away . 
But what can I do ? Where can I go ? Perhaps it will be better soon , said her friend gently . 
So I would not go far . 
I would , indeed I would do anything to be independent for then perhaps my father might get to love me . 
But , ah ! What ? I am no accomplished person . 
And a companion to you must be that . 
Not ? But I can't help using rural words sometimes , when I don't mean to . 
Never mind , I shall like to know them . 
And O , I know I shan't do ! she cried with a distressful laugh . 
I accidentally learned to write round hand instead of ladies' hand . 
And , of course , you want some one who can write that ? Well , no . 
What , not necessary to write ladies' hand ? cried the joyous Elizabeth . 
But where do you live ? In Casterbridge , or rather I shall be living here after twelve o'clock to day . 
I have been staying at Budmouth for a few days while my house was getting ready . 
The house I am going into is that one they call High Place Hall the old stone one looking down the lane to the market . 
Two or three rooms are fit for occupation , though not all I sleep there to night for the first time . 
Her mind dwelt upon nothing else but the stranger , and the house , and her own chance of living there , all the rest of the day . 
High Place Hall was undergoing repair a lady was coming there to live shortly all the shop people knew it , and had already discounted the chance of her being a customer . 
Elizabeth Jane could , however , add a capping touch to information so new to her in the bulk . 
The lady , she said , had arrived that day . 
She went up the street in that direction . 
The Hall , with its grey facade and parapet , was the only residence of its sort so near the centre of the town . 
It had , in the first place , the characteristics of a country mansion birds' nests in its chimneys , damp nooks where fungi grew and irregularities of surface direct from Nature's trowel . 
At night the forms of passengers were patterned by the lamps in black shadows upon the pale walls . 
This evening motes of straw lay around , and other signs of the premises having been in that lawless condition which accompanies the entry of a new tenant . 
The house was entirely of stone , and formed an example of dignity without great size . 
The reason of its unpopularity was soon made manifest . 
Some of its rooms overlooked the market place and such a prospect from such a house was not considered desirable or seemly by its would be occupiers . 
Elizabeth's eyes sought the upper rooms , and saw lights there . 
The lady had obviously arrived . 
Her admiration for the architecture of that front was entirely on account of the inmate it screened . 
Though for that matter the architecture deserved admiration , or at least study , on its own account . 
It was Palladian , and like most architecture erected since the Gothic age was a compilation rather than a design . 
But its reasonableness made it impressive . 
It was not rich , but rich enough . 
A timely consciousness of the ultimate vanity of human architecture , no less than of other human things , had prevented artistic superfluity . 
Men had still quite recently been going in and out with parcels and packing cases , rendering the door and hall within like a public thoroughfare . 
To her surprise she found herself in one of the little used alleys of the town . 
The door was studded , and the keystone of the arch was a mask . 
The appearance was so ghastly by the weakly lamp glimmer that she could not bear to look at it the first unpleasant feature of her visit . 
The position of the queer old door and the odd presence of the leering mask suggested one thing above all others as appertaining to the mansion's past history intrigue . 
High Place Hall could boast of its conveniences undoubtedly . 
There being no other way out she stood behind a brick pier till the intruder should have gone his ways . 
Had she watched she would have been surprised . 
But Elizabeth Jane clung so closely to her nook that she discerned nothing of this . 
Henchard passed in , as ignorant of her presence as she was ignorant of his identity , and disappeared in the darkness . 
Elizabeth came out a second time into the alley , and made the best of her way home . 
Henchard's chiding , by begetting in her a nervous fear of doing anything definable as unladylike , had operated thus curiously in keeping them unknown to each other at a critical moment . 
Her plan was to broach the question of leaving his roof this evening the events of the day had urged her to the course . 
But its execution depended upon his mood , and she anxiously awaited his manner towards her . 
She found that it had changed . 
He showed no further tendency to be angry he showed something worse . 
Absolute indifference had taken the place of irritability and his coldness was such that it encouraged her to departure , even more than hot temper could have done . 
Father , have you any objection to my going away ? she asked . 
Going away ! No none whatever . 
Where are you going ? She thought it undesirable and unnecessary to say anything at present about her destination to one who took so little interest in her . 
He would know that soon enough . 
I have heard of an opportunity of getting more cultivated and finished , and being less idle , she answered , with hesitation . 
A chance of a place in a household where I can have advantages of study , and seeing refined life . 
Then make the best of it , in Heaven's name if you can't get cultivated where you are . 
You don't object ? Object I ? Ho no ! Not at all . 
She thanked him for this offer . 
It had better be done properly , he added after a pause . 
A small annuity is what I should like you to have so as to be independent of me and so that I may be independent of you . 
Would that please ye ? Certainly . 
Then I'll see about it this very day . 
He seemed relieved to get her off his hands by this arrangement , and as far as they were concerned the matter was settled . 
She now simply waited to see the lady again . 
The day and the hour came but a drizzling rain fell . 
Thus mounted , and with cloak and umbrella , she went off to the place of appointment intending , if the lady were not there , to call at the house . 
One side of the churchyard the side towards the weather was sheltered by an ancient thatched mud wall whose eaves overhung as much as one or two feet . 
At the back of the wall was a corn yard with its granary and barns the place wherein she had met Farfrae many months earlier . 
Under the projection of the thatch she saw a figure . 
The young lady had come . 
Her presence so exceptionally substantiated the girl's utmost hopes that she almost feared her good fortune . 
Fancies find rooms in the strongest minds . 
Here , in a churchyard old as civilization , in the worst of weathers , was a strange woman of curious fascinations never seen elsewhere there might be some devilry about her presence . 
However , Elizabeth went on to the church tower , on whose summit the rope of a flagstaff rattled in the wind and thus she came to the wall . 
The lady had such a cheerful aspect in the drizzle that Elizabeth forgot her fancy . 
Your father is willing ? Yes . 
When ? Now as soon as you like . 
I had a good mind to send to you to come to my house , thinking you might not venture up here in the wind . 
But as I like getting out of doors , I thought I would come and see first . 
It was my own thought . 
That shows we shall agree . 
Then can you come to day ? My house is so hollow and dismal that I want some living thing there . 
I think I might be able to , said the girl , reflecting . 
Voices were borne over to them at that instant on the wind and raindrops from the other side of the wall . 
There came such words as sacks , quarters , threshing , tailing , next Saturday's market , each sentence being disorganized by the gusts like a face in a cracked mirror . 
Who are those ? said the lady . 
He rents that yard and barn . 
The lady seemed to forget the immediate business in listening to the technicalities of the corn trade . 
Besides , I have never told you my name . 
Are they gone on the other side ? No. They have only gone up into the granary . 
Well , it is getting damp here . 
I shall expect you to day this evening , say , at six . 
Which way shall I come , ma'am ? The front way round by the gate . 
There is no other that I have noticed . 
Elizabeth Jane had been thinking of the door in the alley . 
Perhaps , as you have not mentioned your destination , you may as well keep silent upon it till you are clear off . 
Who knows but that he may alter his mind ? Elizabeth Jane shook her head . 
On consideration I don't fear it , she said sadly . 
He has grown quite cold to me . 
When they had emerged upon the open road and parted , they found enough to do in holding their bowed umbrellas to the wind . 
Nevertheless the lady looked in at the corn yard gates as she passed them , and paused on one foot for a moment . 
Now Henchard had not the slightest suspicion that Elizabeth Jane's movement was to be so prompt . 
But you said I might go , father ? she explained through the carriage window . 
But I thought you meant next month , or next year . 
Well , well , have your own way , he replied . 
He entered the house , and , seeing that all her things had not yet been brought down , went up to her room to look on . 
He had never been there since she had occupied it . 
Evidences of her care , of her endeavours for improvement , were visible all around , in the form of books , sketches , maps , and little arrangements for tasteful effects . 
Henchard had known nothing of these efforts . 
He gazed at them , turned suddenly about , and came down to the door . 
Look here , he said , in an altered voice he never called her by name now don't 'ee go away from me . 
It may be I've spoke roughly to you but I've been grieved beyond everything by you there's something that caused it . 
By me ? she said , with deep concern . 
What have I done ? I can't tell you now . 
But if you'll stop , and go on living as my daughter , I'll tell you all in time . 
But the proposal had come ten minutes too late . 
She was in the fly was already , in imagination , at the house of the lady whose manner had such charms for her . 
Father , she said , as considerately as she could , I think it best for us that I go on now . 
I need not stay long I shall not be far away , and if you want me badly I can soon come back again . 
He nodded ever so slightly , as a receipt of her decision and no more . 
You are not going far , you say . 
What will be your address , in case I wish to write to you ? Or am I not to know ? Oh yes certainly . 
It is only in the town High Place Hall ! Where ? said Henchard , his face stilling . 
He neither moved nor spoke , and waving her hand to him in utmost friendliness she signified to the flyman to drive up the street . 
We go back for a moment to the preceding night , to account for Henchard's attitude . 
The self repression , the resignation of her previous communication had vanished from her mood she wrote with some of the natural lightness which had marked her in their early acquaintance . 
HIGH PLACE HALL MY DEAR MR . 
HENCHARD , Don't be surprised . 
It is for your good and mine , as I hope , that I have come to live at Casterbridge for how long I cannot tell . 
That depends upon another and he is a man , and a merchant , and a Mayor , and one who has the first right to my affections . 
Seriously , mon ami , I am not so light hearted as I may seem to be from this . 
I am glad you acted fairly by her . 
I hope you are of the same mind , and that you will take steps to this end . 
As , however , I did not know how you were situated , or what had happened since our separation , I decided to come and establish myself here before communicating with you . 
You probably feel as I do about this . 
I shall be able to see you in a day or two . 
P. S. I was unable to keep my appointment to meet you for a moment or two in passing through Casterbridge the other day . 
My plans were altered by a family event , which it will surprise you to hear of . 
Henchard had already heard that High Place Hall was being prepared for a tenant . 
Lucetta is related to her , I suppose , he said to himself . 
Yes , I must put her in her proper position , undoubtedly . 
It was by no means with the oppression that would once have accompanied the thought that he regarded the moral necessity now it was , indeed , with interest , if not warmth . 
His bitter disappointment at finding Elizabeth Jane to be none of his , and himself a childless man , had left an emotional void in Henchard that he unconsciously craved to fill . 
In this frame of mind , though without strong feeling , he had strolled up the alley and into High Place Hall by the postern at which Elizabeth had so nearly encountered him . 
He had gone on thence into the court , and inquired of a man whom he saw unpacking china from a crate if Miss Le Sueur was living there . 
Miss Le Sueur had been the name under which he had known Lucetta or Lucette , as she had called herself at that time . 
The man replied in the negative that Miss Templeman only had come . 
Henchard went away , concluding that Lucetta had not as yet settled in . 
He was in this interested stage of the inquiry when he witnessed Elizabeth Jane's departure the next day . 
He was getting on towards the dead level of middle age , when material things increasingly possess the mind . 
But Henchard was not left long in suspense . 
I am in residence , she said , and comfortable , though getting here has been a wearisome undertaking . 
I will not enter into details except to say that I have taken her name as a means of escape from mine , and its wrongs . 
My first intention was to keep you in ignorance of the changes in my life till you should meet me in the street but I have thought better of this . 
of my getting her to live with me . 
But my first meeting with her was purely an accident . 
She is a dear , good girl , and she thinks you have treated her with undue severity . 
You may have done so in your haste , but not deliberately , I am sure . 
As the result has been to bring her to me I am not disposed to upbraid you . 
In haste , yours always , LUCETTA . 
The excitement which these announcements produced in Henchard's gloomy soul was to him most pleasurable . 
She was plainly in a very coming on disposition for marriage . 
On the whole he did not blame her . 
To feel that he would like to see Lucetta was with Henchard to start for her house . 
He put on his hat and went . 
It was between eight and nine o'clock when he reached her door . 
The answer brought him was that Miss Templeman was engaged for that evening but that she would be happy to see him the next day . 
That's rather like giving herself airs ! he thought . 
And considering what we But after all , she plainly had not expected him , and he took the refusal quietly . 
Nevertheless he resolved not to go next day . 
These cursed women there's not an inch of straight grain in 'em ! he said . 
Let us follow the train of Mr. Henchard's thought as if it were a clue line , and view the interior of High Place Hall on this particular evening . 
On Elizabeth Jane's arrival she had been phlegmatically asked by an elderly woman to go upstairs and take off her things . 
She replied with great earnestness that she would not think of giving that trouble , and on the instant divested herself of her bonnet and cloak in the passage . 
She was then conducted to the first floor on the landing , and left to find her way further alone . 
She was probably some years older than Elizabeth , and had a sparkling light in her eye . 
In front of the sofa was a small table , with a pack of cards scattered upon it faces upward . 
The attitude had been so full of abandonment that she bounded up like a spring on hearing the door open . 
Perceiving that it was Elizabeth she lapsed into ease , and came across to her with a reckless skip that innate grace only prevented from being boisterous . 
Why , you are late , she said , taking hold of Elizabeth Jane's hands . 
There were so many little things to put up . 
And you seem dead alive and tired . 
Let me try to enliven you by some wonderful tricks I have learnt , to kill time . 
Sit there and don't move . 
She gathered up the pack of cards , pulled the table in front of her , and began to deal them rapidly , telling Elizabeth to choose some . 
Well , have you chosen ? she asked flinging down the last card . 
No , stammered Elizabeth , arousing herself from a reverie . 
I forgot , I was thinking of you , and me and how strange it is that I am here . 
Miss Templeman looked at Elizabeth Jane with interest , and laid down the cards . 
Ah ! never mind , she said . 
I'll lie here while you sit by me and we'll talk . 
Elizabeth drew up silently to the head of the sofa , but with obvious pleasure . 
It could be seen that though in years she was younger than her entertainer in manner and general vision she seemed more of the sage . 
I must tell you something , she said . 
I wonder if you have suspected it . 
I have only been mistress of a large house and fortune a little while . 
Oh only a little while ? murmured Elizabeth Jane , her countenance slightly falling . 
As a girl I lived about in garrison towns and elsewhere with my father , till I was quite flighty and unsettled . 
He was an officer in the army . 
I should not have mentioned this had I not thought it best you should know the truth . 
Elizabeth's mind ran on acquirements to an almost morbid degree . 
You speak French and Italian fluently , no doubt , she said . 
I have not been able to get beyond a wretched bit of Latin yet . 
Well , for that matter , in my native isle speaking French does not go for much . 
It is rather the other way . 
Where is your native isle ? It was with rather more reluctance that Miss Templeman said , Jersey . 
There they speak French on one side of the street and English on the other , and a mixed tongue in the middle of the road . 
But it is a long time since I was there . 
Bath is where my people really belong to , though my ancestors in Jersey were as good as anybody in England . 
They were the Le Sueurs , an old family who have done great things in their time . 
I went back and lived there after my father's death . 
But I don't value such past matters , and am quite an English person in my feelings and tastes . 
Lucetta's tongue had for a moment outrun her discretion . 
She had arrived at Casterbridge as a Bath lady , and there were obvious reasons why Jersey should drop out of her life . 
But Elizabeth had tempted her to make free , and a deliberately formed resolve had been broken . 
It could not , however , have been broken in safer company . 
Not the least amusing of her safeguards was her resolute avoidance of a French word if one by accident came to her tongue more readily than its English equivalent . 
She shirked it with the suddenness of the weak Apostle at the accusation , Thy speech bewrayeth thee ! Expectancy sat visibly upon Lucetta the next morning . 
She dressed herself for Mr. Henchard , and restlessly awaited his call before mid day as he did not come she waited on through the afternoon . 
But she did not tell Elizabeth that the person expected was the girl's stepfather . 
They sat in adjoining windows of the same room in Lucetta's great stone mansion , netting , and looking out upon the market , which formed an animated scene . 
Elizabeth could see the crown of her stepfather's hat among the rest beneath , and was not aware that Lucetta watched the same object with yet intenser interest . 
He moved about amid the throng , at this point lively as an ant hill elsewhere more reposeful , and broken up by stalls of fruit and vegetables . 
The farmers as a rule preferred the open carrefour for their transactions , despite its inconvenient jostlings and the danger from crossing vehicles , to the gloomy sheltered market room provided for them . 
Their faces radiated tropical warmth for though when at home their countenances varied with the seasons , their market faces all the year round were glowing little fires . 
All over clothes here were worn as if they were an inconvenience , a hampering necessity . 
Yet many carried ruffled cheque books in their pockets which regulated at the bank hard by a balance of never less than four figures . 
Elizabeth Jane , who had often observed them , said , I wonder if the same trees come every week ? What trees ? said Lucetta , absorbed in watching for Henchard . 
Elizabeth replied vaguely , for an incident checked her . 
Behind one of the trees stood Farfrae , briskly discussing a sample bag with a farmer . 
Are you particularly interested in anybody out there ? said Lucetta . 
O , no , said her companion , a quick red shooting over her face . 
Luckily Farfrae's figure was immediately covered by the apple tree . 
Lucetta looked hard at her . 
Quite sure ? she said . 
O yes , said Elizabeth Jane . 
They are all farmers , I suppose ? she said . 
No. There's Mr. Bulge he's a wine merchant there's Benjamin Brownlet a horse dealer and Kitson , the pig breeder and Yopper , the auctioneer besides maltsters , and millers and so on . 
Farfrae stood out quite distinctly now but she did not mention him . 
The Saturday afternoon slipped on thus desultorily . 
The market changed from the sample showing hour to the idle hour before starting homewards , when tales were told . 
Henchard had not called on Lucetta though he had stood so near . 
He must have been too busy , she thought . 
He would come on Sunday or Monday . 
The days came but not the visitor , though Lucetta repeated her dressing with scrupulous care . 
Tuesday was the great Candlemas fair . 
At breakfast she said to Elizabeth Jane quite coolly I imagine your father may call to see you to day . 
I suppose he stands close by in the market place with the rest of the corn dealers ? She shook her head . 
Why ? He has taken against me , she said in a husky voice . 
You have quarreled more deeply than I know of . 
Elizabeth , wishing to shield the man she believed to be her father from any charge of unnatural dislike , said Yes . 
Then where you are is , of all places , the one he will avoid ? Elizabeth nodded sadly . 
Lucetta looked blank , twitched up her lovely eyebrows and lip , and burst into hysterical sobs . 
Here was a disaster her ingenious scheme completely stultified . 
O , my dear Miss Templeman what's the matter ? cried her companion . 
I like your company much ! said Lucetta , as soon as she could speak . 
Yes , yes and so do I yours ! Elizabeth chimed in soothingly . 
A provisional resource suggested itself . 
Miss Henchard will you go on an errand for me as soon as breakfast is over ? Ah , that's very good of you . 
Will you go and order Here she enumerated several commissions at sundry shops , which would occupy Elizabeth's time for the next hour or two , at least . 
And have you ever seen the Museum ? Elizabeth Jane had not . 
Then you should do so at once . 
You can finish the morning by going there . 
You'll be sure to stay till you get quite hungry . 
Elizabeth hastily put on her things and departed . 
I wonder why she wants to get rid of me to day ! she said sorrowfully as she went . 
She had not been gone ten minutes when one of Lucetta's servants was sent to Henchard's with a note . 
Say you come on business I shall be quite alone . 
When the messenger returned her mistress gave directions that if a gentleman called he was to be admitted at once , and sat down to await results . 
Next she flung herself on the couch in the cyma recta curve which so became her , and with her arm over her brow looked towards the door . 
This , she decided , was the best position after all , and thus she remained till a man's step was heard on the stairs . 
, jumped up and ran and hid herself behind one of the window curtains in a freak of timidity . 
In spite of the waning of passion the situation was an agitating one she had not seen Henchard since his temporary parting from her in Jersey . 
She could hear the servant showing the visitor into the room , shutting the door upon him , and leaving as if to go and look for her mistress . 
Lucetta flung back the curtain with a nervous greeting . 
The man before her was not Henchard . 
He was years younger than the Mayor of Casterbridge fair , fresh , and slenderly handsome . 
But I'm very sorry ! he said , in deprecating tones . 
But is it that I have come to the wrong house , madam ? said Mr. Farfrae , blinking a little in his bewilderment and nervously tapping his legging with his switch . 
O no , sir , sit down . 
You must come and sit down now you are here , replied Lucetta kindly , to relieve his embarrassment . 
Miss Henchard will be here directly . 
He hesitated , looked at the chair , thought there was no danger in it , and sat down . 
Farfrae's sudden entry was simply the result of Henchard's permission to him to see Elizabeth if he were minded to woo her . 
He therefore forgave the Mayor his curtness and this morning on his way to the fair he had called at her house , where he learnt that she was staying at Miss Templeman's . 
A little stimulated at not finding her ready and waiting so fanciful are men ! he hastened on to High Place Hall to encounter no Elizabeth but its mistress herself . 
The fair to day seems a large one , she said when , by natural deviation , their eyes sought the busy scene without . 
Your numerous fairs and markets keep me interested . 
Do you look out often ? he asked . 
Do you look for any one you know ? Why should she have answered as she did ? I look as at a picture merely . 
But , she went on , turning pleasantly to him , I may do so now I may look for you . 
It takes off the terrible oppressiveness of being surrounded by a throng , and having no point of junction with it through a single individual . 
Ay ! Maybe you'll be very lonely , ma'am ? Nobody knows how lonely . 
But you are rich , they say ? If so , I don't know how to enjoy my riches . 
I came to Casterbridge thinking I should like to live here . 
But I wonder if I shall . 
Where did ye come from , ma'am ? The neighbourhood of Bath . 
And I from near Edinboro' , he murmured . 
It's better to stay at home , and that's true but a man must live where his money is made . 
It is a great pity , but it's always so ! Yet I've done very well this year . 
O yes , he went on with ingenuous enthusiasm . 
Just when I sold the markets went lower , and I bought up the corn of those who had been holding back at less price than my first purchases . 
while the others by keeping theirs in hand made nothing at all ! Lucetta regarded him with a critical interest . 
He was quite a new type of person to her . 
At last his eye fell upon the lady's and their glances met . 
Ay , now , I'm wearying you ! he exclaimed . 
She said , No , indeed , colouring a shade . 
What then ? Quite otherwise . 
It was now Farfrae who showed the modest pink . 
I mean all you Scotchmen , she added in hasty correction . 
So free from Southern extremes . 
We common people are all one way or the other warm or cold , passionate or frigid . 
You have both temperatures going on in you at the same time . 
But how do you mean that ? Ye were best to explain clearly , ma'am . 
You are animated then you are thinking of getting on . 
You are sad the next moment then you are thinking of Scotland and friends . 
I think of home sometimes ! he said simply . 
So do I as far as I can . 
But it was an old house where I was born , and they pulled it down for improvements , so I seem hardly to have any home to think of now . 
Lucetta did not add , as she might have done , that the house was in St . 
Helier , and not in Bath . 
But the mountains , and the mists and the rocks , they are there ! And don't they seem like home ? She shook her head . 
They do to me they do to me , he murmured . 
And his mind could be seen flying away northwards . 
Like the colours in a variegated cord those contrasts could be seen intertwisted , yet not mingling . 
You are wishing you were back again , she said . 
Ah , no , ma'am , said Farfrae , suddenly recalling himself . 
The fair without the windows was now raging thick and loud . 
It was the chief hiring fair of the year , and differed quite from the market of a few days earlier . 
In substance it was a whitey brown crowd flecked with white this being the body of labourers waiting for places . 
The long bonnets of the women , like waggon tilts , their cotton gowns and checked shawls , mixed with the carters' smockfrocks for they , too , entered into the hiring . 
Among the rest , at the corner of the pavement , stood an old shepherd , who attracted the eyes of Lucetta and Farfrae by his stillness . 
He was evidently a chastened man . 
The battle of life had been a sharp one with him , for , to begin with , he was a man of small frame . 
He was now so bowed by hard work and years that , approaching from behind , a person could hardly see his head . 
He had planted the stem of his crook in the gutter and was resting upon the bow , which was polished to silver brightness by the long friction of his hands . 
He had quite forgotten where he was , and what he had come for , his eyes being bent on the ground . 
The negotiations were between a farmer from a distant county and the old man's son . 
In these there was a difficulty . 
I'm sorry to leave ye , Nelly , said the young man with emotion . 
But , you see , I can't starve father , and he's out o' work at Lady day . 
'Tis only thirty five mile . 
Thirty five mile ! she murmured . 
O ! no , no I never shall , she insisted , when he pressed her hand and she turned her face to Lucetta's wall to hide her weeping . 
The farmer said he would give the young man half an hour for his answer , and went away , leaving the group sorrowing . 
Lucetta's eyes , full of tears , met Farfrae's . 
His , too , to her surprise , were moist at the scene . 
It is very hard , she said with strong feelings . 
I want a young carter and perhaps I'll take the old man too yes he'll not be very expensive , and doubtless he will answer my pairrpose somehow . 
O , you are so good ! she cried , delighted . 
Go and tell them , and let me know if you have succeeded ! Farfrae went out , and she saw him speak to the group . 
The eyes of all brightened the bargain was soon struck . 
Farfrae returned to her immediately it was concluded . 
It is kind hearted of you , indeed , said Lucetta . 
I must be a little stricter than that , he said . 
Why ? You are a a thriving woman and I am a struggling hay and corn merchant . 
I am a very ambitious woman . 
Ah , well , I cannet explain . 
I don't know how to talk to ladies , ambitious or no and that's true , said Donald with grave regret . 
I try to be civil to a' folk no more ! I see you are as you say , replied she , sensibly getting the upper hand in these exchanges of sentiment . 
Under this revelation of insight Farfrae again looked out of the window into the thick of the fair . 
Two farmers met and shook hands , and being quite near the window their remarks could be heard as others' had been . 
Have you seen young Mr. Farfrae this morning ? asked one . 
I quite forgot the engagement , murmured Farfrae . 
Now you must go , said she must you not ? Yes , he replied . 
You had better go , she urged . 
You will lose a customer . 
Now , Miss Templeman , you will make me angry , exclaimed Farfrae . 
I like staying but I fear I must go ! he said . 
Business ought not to be neglected , ought it ? Not for a single minute . 
I'll come another time if I may , ma'am ? Certainly , she said . 
What has happened to us to day is very curious . 
Something to think over when we are alone , it's like to be ? Oh , I don't know that . 
It is commonplace after all . 
No , I'll not say that . 
O no ! Well , whatever it has been , it is now over and the market calls you to be gone . 
Market business ! I wish there were no business in the warrld . 
Lucetta almost laughed she would quite have laughed but that there was a little emotion going in her at the time . 
How you change ! she said . 
You should not change like this . 
I have never wished such things before , said the Scotchman , with a simple , shamed , apologetic look for his weakness . 
It is only since coming here and seeing you ! If that's the case , you had better not look at me any longer . 
Dear me , I feel I have quite demoralized you ! But look or look not , I will see you in my thoughts . 
Well , I'll go thank you for the pleasure of this visit . 
Maybe I'll get into my market mind when I've been out a few minutes , he murmured . 
But I don't know I don't know ! As he went she said eagerly , You may hear them speak of me in Casterbridge as time goes on . 
If they tell you I'm a coquette , which some may , because of the incidents of my life , don't believe it , for I am not . 
I swear I will not ! he said fervidly . 
Why was this ? They could not have told . 
Lucetta as a young girl would hardly have looked at a tradesman . 
But her ups and downs , capped by her indiscretions with Henchard had made her uncritical as to station . 
In her poverty she had met with repulse from the society to which she had belonged , and she had no great zest for renewing an attempt upon it now . 
Her heart longed for some ark into which it could fly and be at rest . 
Rough or smooth she did not care so long as it was warm . 
Farfrae was shown out , it having entirely escaped him that he had called to see Elizabeth . 
Lucetta at the window watched him threading the maze of farmers and farmers' men . 
He entered the market house , and she could see him no more . 
Three minutes later , when she had left the window , knocks , not of multitude but of strength , sounded through the house , and the waiting maid tripped up . 
The Mayor , she said . 
Lucetta had reclined herself , and she was looking dreamily through her fingers . 
She did not answer at once , and the maid repeated the information with the addition , And he's afraid he hasn't much time to spare , he says . 
Oh ! Then tell him that as I have a headache I won't detain him to day . 
The message was taken down , and she heard the door close . 
Lucetta had come to Casterbridge to quicken Henchard's feelings with regard to her . 
She had quickened them , and now she was indifferent to the achievement . 
Her morning view of Elizabeth Jane as a disturbing element changed , and she no longer felt strongly the necessity of getting rid of the girl for her stepfather's sake . 
When the young woman came in , sweetly unconscious of the turn in the tide , Lucetta went up to her , and said quite sincerely I'm so glad you've come . 
You'll live with me a long time , won't you ? Elizabeth as a watch dog to keep her father off what a new idea . 
Yet it was not unpleasing . 
Henchard had neglected her all these days , after compromising her indescribably in the past . 
The least he could have done when he found himself free , and herself affluent , would have been to respond heartily and promptly to her invitation . 
Her emotions rose , fell , undulated , filled her with wild surmise at their suddenness and so passed Lucetta's experiences of that day . 
Poor Elizabeth Jane , little thinking what her malignant star had done to blast the budding attentions she had won from Donald Farfrae , was glad to hear Lucetta's words about remaining . 
For in addition to Lucetta's house being a home , that raking view of the market place which it afforded had as much attraction for her as for Lucetta . 
The carrefour was like the regulation Open Place in spectacular dramas , where the incidents that occur always happen to bear on the lives of the adjoining residents . 
Farmers , merchants , dairymen , quacks , hawkers , appeared there from week to week , and disappeared as the afternoon wasted away . 
It was the node of all orbits . 
From Saturday to Saturday was as from day to day with the two young women now . 
In an emotional sense they did not live at all during the intervals . 
Wherever they might go wandering on other days , on market day they were sure to be at home . 
Both stole sly glances out of the window at Farfrae's shoulders and poll . 
His face they seldom saw , for , either through shyness , or not to disturb his mercantile mood , he avoided looking towards their quarters . 
Thus things went on , till a certain market morning brought a new sensation . 
Elizabeth and Lucetta were sitting at breakfast when a parcel containing two dresses arrived for the latter from London . 
I wouldn't think so hard about it , said Elizabeth , marking the intensity with which Lucetta was alternating the question whether this or that would suit best . 
But settling upon new clothes is so trying , said Lucetta . 
, for the whole of the coming spring and one of the two , you don't know which , may turn out to be very objectionable . 
It was finally decided by Miss Templeman that she would be the cherry coloured person at all hazards . 
The dress was pronounced to be a fit , and Lucetta walked with it into the front room , Elizabeth following her . 
The morning was exceptionally bright for the time of year . 
The sun fell so flat on the houses and pavement opposite Lucetta's residence that they poured their brightness into her rooms . 
Suddenly , after a rumbling of wheels , there were added to this steady light a fantastic series of circling irradiations upon the ceiling , and the companions turned to the window . 
Immediately opposite a vehicle of strange description had come to a standstill , as if it had been placed there for exhibition . 
Its arrival created about as much sensation in the corn market as a flying machine would create at Charing Cross . 
The farmers crowded round it , women drew near it , children crept under and into it . 
The machine was painted in bright hues of green , yellow , and red , and it resembled as a whole a compound of hornet , grasshopper , and shrimp , magnified enormously . 
Or it might have been likened to an upright musical instrument with the front gone . 
That was how it struck Lucetta . 
Why , it is a sort of agricultural piano , she said . 
It has something to do with corn , said Elizabeth . 
I wonder who thought of introducing it here ? Donald Farfrae was in the minds of both as the innovator , for though not a farmer he was closely leagued with farming operations . 
Elizabeth Jane's bonnet and shawl were pitchforked on in a moment , and they went out . 
Among all the agriculturists gathered round the only appropriate possessor of the new machine seemed to be Lucetta , because she alone rivalled it in colour . 
She looked up , and there was her stepfather . 
Henchard put his hand to his hat , which he brought down with a great wave till it met his body at the knee . 
I am happy to become acquainted with you , Mr. Henchard , she said . 
This is a curious machine . 
Yes , Henchard replied and he proceeded to explain it , and still more forcibly to ridicule it . 
Who brought it here ? said Lucetta . 
Oh , don't ask me , ma'am ! said Henchard . 
The thing why 'tis impossible it should act . 
He turned to go away . 
Then something seemed to occur which his stepdaughter fancied must really be a hallucination of hers . 
A murmur apparently came from Henchard's lips in which she detected the words , You refused to see me ! reproachfully addressed to Lucetta . 
She could not believe that they had been uttered by her stepfather unless , indeed , they might have been spoken to one of the yellow gaitered farmers near them . 
Yet Lucetta seemed silent , and then all thought of the incident was dissipated by the humming of a song , which sounded as though from the interior of the machine . 
Henchard had by this time vanished into the market house , and both the women glanced towards the corn drill . 
They could see behind it the bent back of a man who was pushing his head into the internal works to master their simple secrets . 
Elizabeth Jane had apprehended the singer in a moment , and looked guilty of she did not know what . 
We are looking at the wonderful new drill , Miss Templeman said . 
But practically it is a stupid thing is it not ? she added , on the strength of Henchard's information . 
Stupid ? O no ! said Farfrae gravely . 
It will revolutionize sowing heerabout ! No more sowers flinging their seed about broadcast , so that some falls by the wayside and some among thorns , and all that . 
'He that observeth the wind shall not sow , so the Preacher said but his words will not be to the point any more . 
How things change ! Ay ay . 
It must be so ! Donald admitted , his gaze fixing itself on a blank point far away . 
But the machines are already very common in the East and North of England , he added apologetically . 
Lucetta seemed to be outside this train of sentiment , her acquaintance with the Scriptures being somewhat limited . 
Is the machine yours ? she asked of Farfrae . 
O no , madam , said he , becoming embarrassed and deferential at the sound of her voice , though with Elizabeth Jane he was quite at his ease . 
No , no I merely recommended that it should be got . 
In the silence which followed Farfrae appeared only conscious of her to have passed from perception of Elizabeth into a brighter sphere of existence than she appertained to . 
The latter felt that she had been in the way , though why was unaccountable to her . 
Lucetta was very kind towards Elizabeth that day . 
The gigs and vans disappeared one by one till there was not a vehicle in the street . 
The time of the riding world was over the pedestrian world held sway . 
All the implements were gone all the farmers all the moneyed class . 
The character of the town's trading had changed from bulk to multiplicity and pence were handled now as pounds had been handled earlier in the day . 
Lucetta and Elizabeth looked out upon this , for though it was night and the street lamps were lighted , they had kept their shutters unclosed . 
In the faint blink of the fire they spoke more freely . 
Your father was distant with you , said Lucetta . 
And having forgotten the momentary mystery of Henchard's seeming speech to Lucetta she continued , It is because he does not think I am respectable . 
I have tried to be so more than you can imagine , but in vain ! My mother's separation from my father was unfortunate for me . 
You don't know what it is to have shadows like that upon your life . 
I do not of that kind precisely , she said , but you may feel a sense of disgrace shame in other ways . 
Have you ever had any such feeling ? said the younger innocently . 
O no , said Lucetta quickly . 
I was thinking of what happens sometimes when women get themselves in strange positions in the eyes of the world from no fault of their own . 
It must make them very unhappy afterwards . 
It makes them anxious for might not other women despise them ? Not altogether despise them . 
Yet not quite like or respect them . 
Her past was by no means secure from investigation , even in Casterbridge . 
For one thing Henchard had never returned to her the cloud of letters she had written and sent him in her first excitement . 
Possibly they were destroyed but she could have wished that they had never been written . 
The rencounter with Farfrae and his bearings towards Lucetta had made the reflective Elizabeth more observant of her brilliant and amiable companion . 
A few days afterwards , when her eyes met Lucetta's as the latter was going out , she somehow knew that Miss Templeman was nourishing a hope of seeing the attractive Scotchman . 
The fact was printed large all over Lucetta's cheeks and eyes to any one who could read her as Elizabeth Jane was beginning to do . 
Lucetta passed on and closed the street door . 
A seer's spirit took possession of Elizabeth , impelling her to sit down by the fire and divine events so surely from data already her own that they could be held as witnessed . 
She followed Lucetta thus mentally saw her encounter Donald somewhere as if by chance saw him wear his special look when meeting women , with an added intensity because this one was Lucetta . 
This discerning silent witch had not done thinking of these things when Lucetta came noiselessly behind her and made her start . 
It was all true as she had pictured she could have sworn it . 
Lucetta had a heightened luminousness in her eye over and above the advanced colour of her cheeks . 
You've seen Mr. Farfrae , said Elizabeth demurely . 
How did you know ? She knelt down on the hearth and took her friend's hands excitedly in her own . 
But after all she did not say when or how she had seen him or what he had said . 
Elizabeth was earnest to listen and sympathize . 
This person a lady once admired a man much very much , she said tentatively . 
Ah , said Elizabeth Jane . 
He did not think so deeply of her as she did of him . 
But in an impulsive moment , purely out of reparation , he proposed to make her his wife . 
After that they were much apart , heard nothing of each other for a long time , and she felt her life quite closed up for her . 
Ah poor girl ! She suffered much on account of him though I should add that he could not altogether be blamed for what had happened . 
At last the obstacle which separated them was providentially removed and he came to marry her . 
How delightful ! But in the interval she my poor friend had seen a man , she liked better than him . 
I cannot answer , said Elizabeth Jane thoughtfully . 
It wants a Pope to settle that ! You prefer not to perhaps ? Lucetta showed in her appealing tone how much she leant on Elizabeth's judgment . 
Yes , Miss Templeman , admitted Elizabeth . 
I would rather not say . 
Nevertheless , Lucetta seemed relieved by the simple fact of having opened out the situation a little , and was slowly convalescent of her headache . 
Bring me a looking glass . 
How do I appear to people ? she said languidly . 
Well a little worn , answered Elizabeth , eyeing her as a critic eyes a doubtful painting fetching the glass she enabled Lucetta to survey herself in it , which Lucetta anxiously did . 
I wonder if I wear well , as times go ! she observed after a while . 
Where am I worst ? Under your eyes I notice a little brownness there . 
That is my worst place , I know . 
It may be five years , she said judicially . 
Or , with a quiet life , as many as ten . 
With no love you might calculate on ten . 
Lucetta seemed to reflect on this as on an unalterable , impartial verdict . 
For by the she of Lucetta's story Elizabeth had not been beguiled . 
The next phase of the supersession of Henchard in Lucetta's heart was an experiment in calling on her performed by Farfrae with some apparent trepidation . 
Conventionally speaking he conversed with both Miss Templeman and her companion but in fact it was rather that Elizabeth sat invisible in the room . 
Lucetta had persisted in dragging her into the circle but she had remained like an awkward third point which that circle would not touch . 
She stoically looked from her bedroom window , and contemplated her fate as if it were written on the top of the church tower hard by . 
He understood but little of fashion in dress , yet enough to feel himself inadequate in appearance beside her whom he had hitherto been dreaming of as almost his property . 
She said something very polite about his being good enough to call . 
This caused him to recover balance . 
He looked her oddly in the face , losing his awe . 
Why , of course I have called , Lucetta , he said . 
What does that nonsense mean ? You know I couldn't have helped myself if I had wished that is , if I had any kindness at all . 
Yes , yes I suppose it is . 
Still , I wouldn't call in a hurry , because well , you can guess how this money you've come into made me feel . 
His voice slowly fell he was conscious that in this room his accents and manner wore a roughness not observable in the street . 
He looked about the room at the novel hangings and ingenious furniture with which she had surrounded herself . 
Upon my life I didn't know such furniture as this could be bought in Casterbridge , he said . 
Nor can it be said she . 
Nor will it till fifty years more of civilization have passed over the town . 
It took a waggon and four horses to get it here . 
It looks as if you were living on capital . 
O no , I am not . 
But the fact is , your setting up like this makes my beaming towards you rather awkward . 
Why ? An answer was not really needed , and he did not furnish one . 
He turned to her with congratulatory admiration so fervid that she shrank somewhat , notwithstanding that she knew him so well . 
I am greatly obliged to you for all that , said she , rather with an air of speaking ritual . 
The stint of reciprocal feeling was perceived , and Henchard showed chagrin at once nobody was more quick to show that than he . 
You may be obliged or not for't . 
Though the things I say may not have the polish of what you've lately learnt to expect for the first time in your life , they are real , my lady Lucetta . 
That's rather a rude way of speaking to me , pouted Lucetta , with stormy eyes . 
Not at all ! replied Henchard hotly . 
But there , there , I don't wish to quarrel with 'ee . 
I come with an honest proposal for silencing your Jersey enemies , and you ought to be thankful . 
How can you speak so ! she answered , firing quickly . 
What is known in your native Jersey may get known here . 
How you keep on about Jersey ! I am English ! Yes , yes . 
Well , what do you say to my proposal ? For the first time in their acquaintance Lucetta had the move and yet she was backward . 
For the present let things be , she said with some embarrassment . 
Treat me as an acquaintance , and I'll treat you as one . 
That's the way the wind blows , is it ? he said at last grimly , nodding an affirmative to his own thoughts . 
A yellow flood of reflected sunlight filled the room for a few instants . 
It was produced by the passing of a load of newly trussed hay from the country , in a waggon marked with Farfrae's name . 
Beside it rode Farfrae himself on horse back . 
Lucetta's face became as a woman's face becomes when the man she loves rises upon her gaze like an apparition . 
A turn of the eye by Henchard , a glance from the window , and the secret of her inaccessibility would have been revealed . 
But Henchard in estimating her tone was looking down so plumb straight that he did not note the warm consciousness upon Lucetta's face . 
Bringing him some apples she insisted upon paring one for him . 
He would not take it . 
No , no such is not for me , he said drily , and moved to the door . 
At going out he turned his eye upon her . 
You came to live in Casterbridge entirely on my account , he said . 
I WILL love him ! she cried passionately as for HIM he's hot tempered and stern , and it would be madness to bind myself to him knowing that . 
I won't be a slave to the past I'll love where I choose ! Yet having decided to break away from Henchard one might have supposed her capable of aiming higher than Farfrae . 
On Farfrae's side it was the unforced passion of youth . 
On Henchard's the artificially stimulated coveting of maturer age . 
The pain she experienced from the almost absolute obliviousness to her existence that was shown by the pair of them became at times half dissipated by her sense of its humourousness . 
As regarded Farfrae , she thought , after honest reflection , that it was quite natural . 
What was she beside Lucetta ? as one of the meaner beauties of the night , when the moon had risen in the skies . 
She had learnt the lesson of renunciation , and was as familiar with the wreck of each day's wishes as with the diurnal setting of the sun . 
If her earthly career had taught her few book philosophies it had at least well practised her in this . 
Yet her experience had consisted less in a series of pure disappointments than in a series of substitutions . 
Continually it had happened that what she had desired had not been granted her , and that what had been granted her she had not desired . 
It chanced that on a fine spring morning Henchard and Farfrae met in the chestnut walk which ran along the south wall of the town . 
Each had just come out from his early breakfast , and there was not another soul near . 
Donald had no wish to enter into conversation with his former friend on their present constrained terms neither would he pass him in scowling silence . 
He nodded , and Henchard did the same . 
They receded from each other several paces when a voice cried Farfrae ! It was Henchard's , who stood regarding him . 
Do you remember my telling 'ee how it all began and how it ended ? Yes . 
Well , I have offered to marry her now that I can but she won't marry me . 
Now what would you think of her I put it to you ? Well , ye owe her nothing more now , said Farfrae heartily . 
It is true , said Henchard , and went on . 
That he had looked up from a letter to ask his questions completely shut out from Farfrae's mind all vision of Lucetta as the culprit . 
Indeed , her present position was so different from that of the young woman of Henchard's story as of itself to be sufficient to blind him absolutely to her identity . 
As for Henchard , he was reassured by Farfrae's words and manner against a suspicion which had crossed his mind . 
They were not those of a conscious rival . 
Yet that there was rivalry by some one he was firmly persuaded . 
He could feel it in the air around Lucetta , see it in the turn of her pen . 
There was an antagonistic force in exercise , so that when he had tried to hang near her he seemed standing in a refluent current . 
That it was not innate caprice he was more and more certain . 
Her windows gleamed as if they did not want him her curtains seem to hang slily , as if they screened an ousting presence . 
To discover whose presence that was whether really Farfrae's after all , or another's he exerted himself to the utmost to see her again and at length succeeded . 
At the interview , when she offered him tea , he made it a point to launch a cautious inquiry if she knew Mr. Farfrae . 
O yes , she knew him , she declared she could not help knowing almost everybody in Casterbridge , living in such a gazebo over the centre and arena of the town . 
Pleasant young fellow , said Henchard . 
We both know him , said kind Elizabeth Jane , to relieve her companion's divined embarrassment . 
There was a knock at the door literally , three full knocks and a little one at the end . 
That kind of knock means half and half somebody between gentle and simple , said the corn merchant to himself . 
I shouldn't wonder therefore if it is he . 
In a few seconds surely enough Donald walked in . 
Lucetta was full of little fidgets and flutters , which increased Henchard's suspicions without affording any special proof of their correctness . 
He was well nigh ferocious at the sense of the queer situation in which he stood towards this woman . 
They sat stiffly side by side at the darkening table , like some Tuscan painting of the two disciples supping at Emmaus . 
More bread and butter ? said Lucetta to Henchard and Farfrae equally , holding out between them a plateful of long slices . 
Henchard took a slice by one end and Donald by the other each feeling certain he was the man meant neither let go , and the slice came in two . 
Oh I am so sorry ! cried Lucetta , with a nervous titter . 
Farfrae tried to laugh but he was too much in love to see the incident in any but a tragic light . 
How ridiculous of all three of them ! said Elizabeth to herself . 
Henchard left the house with a ton of conjecture , though without a grain of proof , that the counterattraction was Farfrae and therefore he would not make up his mind . 
Yet to Elizabeth Jane it was plain as the town pump that Donald and Lucetta were incipient lovers . 
More than once , in spite of her care , Lucetta had been unable to restrain her glance from flitting across into Farfrae's eyes like a bird to its nest . 
And the sense of occult rivalry in suitorship was so much superadded to the palpable rivalry of their business lives . 
To the coarse materiality of that rivalry it added an inflaming soul . 
The thus vitalized antagonism took the form of action by Henchard sending for Jopp , the manager originally displaced by Farfrae's arrival . 
Jopp came after dark , by the gates of the storeyard , and felt his way through the hay and straw to the office where Henchard sat in solitude awaiting him . 
I am again out of a foreman , said the corn factor . 
Are you in a place ? Not so much as a beggar's , sir . 
How much do you ask ? Jopp named his price , which was very moderate . 
I know Jersey too , sir , he said . 
Was living there when you used to do business that way . 
O yes have often seen ye there . 
Then the thing is settled . 
The testimonials you showed me when you first tried for't are sufficient . 
That characters deteriorated in time of need possibly did not occur to , Henchard . 
Jopp said , Thank you , and stood more firmly , in the consciousness that at last he officially belonged to that spot . 
Now , said Henchard , digging his strong eyes into Jopp's face , one thing is necessary to me , as the biggest corn and hay dealer in these parts . 
The Scotchman , who's taking the town trade so bold into his hands , must be cut out . 
D'ye hear ? We two can't live side by side that's clear and certain . 
I've seen it all , said Jopp . 
By fair competition I mean , of course , Henchard continued . 
But as hard , keen , and unflinching as fair rather more so . 
By such a desperate bid against him for the farmers' custom as will grind him into the ground starve him out . 
I've capital , mind ye , and I can do it . 
I'm all that way of thinking , said the new foreman . 
I sometimes think , he added , that he must have some glass that he sees next year in . 
He has such a knack of making everything bring him fortune . 
He's deep beyond all honest men's discerning , but we must make him shallower . 
We'll undersell him , and over buy him , and so snuff him out . 
They then entered into specific details of the process by which this would be accomplished , and parted at a late hour . 
Elizabeth Jane heard by accident that Jopp had been engaged by her stepfather . 
But it was done to no purpose . 
Henchard shut up her argument with a sharp rebuff . 
The season's weather seemed to favour their scheme . 
A bad harvest , or the prospect of one , would double the price of corn in a few weeks and the promise of a good yield would lower it as rapidly . 
Prices were like the roads of the period , steep in gradient , reflecting in their phases the local conditions , without engineering , levellings , or averages . 
The farmer's income was ruled by the wheat crop within his own horizon , and the wheat crop by the weather . 
Thus in person , he became a sort of flesh barometer , with feelers always directed to the sky and wind around him . 
The local atmosphere was everything to him the atmospheres of other countries a matter of indifference . 
The people , too , who were not farmers , the rural multitude , saw in the god of the weather a more important personage than they do now . 
Indeed , the feeling of the peasantry in this matter was so intense as to be almost unrealizable in these equable days . 
Their impulse was well nigh to prostrate themselves in lamentation before untimely rains and tempests , which came as the Alastor of those households whose crime it was to be poor . 
After midsummer they watched the weather cocks as men waiting in antechambers watch the lackey . 
Sun elated them quiet rain sobered them weeks of watery tempest stupefied them . 
That aspect of the sky which they now regard as disagreeable they then beheld as maleficent . 
It was June , and the weather was very unfavourable . 
Casterbridge , being as it were the bell board on which all the adjacent hamlets and villages sounded their notes , was decidedly dull . 
Henchard , backed by Jopp , read a disastrous garnering , and resolved to base his strategy against Farfrae upon that reading . 
But before acting he wished what so many have wished that he could know for certain what was at present only strong probability . 
He was superstitious as such head strong natures often are and he nourished in his mind an idea bearing on the matter an idea he shrank from disclosing even to Jopp . 
The way to his house was crooked and miry even difficult in the present unpropitious season . 
The turnpike road became a lane , the lane a cart track , the cart track a bridle path , the bridle path a foot way , the foot way overgrown . 
The cottage , comparatively a large one , had been built of mud by the occupier's own hands , and thatched also by himself . 
Here he had always lived , and here it was assumed he would die . 
Whenever they consulted him they did it for a fancy . 
When they paid him they said , Just a trifle for Christmas , or Candlemas , as the case might be . 
He would have preferred more honesty in his clients , and less sham ridicule but fundamental belief consoled him for superficial irony . 
As stated , he was enabled to live people supported him with their backs turned . 
He was sometimes astonished that men could profess so little and believe so much at his house , when at church they professed so much and believed so little . 
Behind his back he was called Wide oh , on account of his reputation to his face Mr. Fall . 
The hedge of his garden formed an arch over the entrance , and a door was inserted as in a wall . 
Outside the door the tall traveller stopped , bandaged his face with a handkerchief as if he were suffering from toothache , and went up the path . 
The window shutters were not closed , and he could see the prophet within , preparing his supper . 
In answer to the knock Fall came to the door , candle in hand . 
The visitor stepped back a little from the light , and said , Can I speak to 'ee ? in significant tones . 
The other's invitation to come in was responded to by the country formula , This will do , thank 'ee , after which the householder had no alternative but to come out . 
He placed the candle on the corner of the dresser , took his hat from a nail , and joined the stranger in the porch , shutting the door behind him . 
I've long heard that you can do things of a sort ? began the other , repressing his individuality as much as he could . 
Maybe so , Mr. Henchard , said the weather caster . 
Ah why do you call me that ? asked the visitor with a start . 
Feeling you'd come I've waited for 'ee and thinking you might be leery from your walk I laid two supper plates look ye here . 
He threw open the door and disclosed the supper table , at which appeared a second chair , knife and fork , plate and mug , as he had declared . 
Now , for instance , can ye charm away warts ? Without trouble . 
Cure the evil ? That I've done with consideration if they will wear the toad bag by night as well as by day . 
Forecast the weather ? With labour and time . 
Then take this , said Henchard . 
Now , what is the harvest fortnight to be ? When can I know ? I've worked it out already , and you can know at once . 
You are not certain , of course ? As one can be in a world where all's unsure . 
'Twill be more like living in Revelations this autumn than in England . 
Shall I sketch it out for 'ee in a scheme ? O no , no , said Henchard . 
I don't altogether believe in forecasts , come to second thoughts on such . 
But I You don't you don't 'tis quite understood , said Wide oh , without a sound of scorn . 
You have given me a crown because you've one too many . 
But as sitting down to hob and nob there would have seemed to mark him too implicitly as the weather caster's apostle , he declined , and went his way . 
When his granaries were full to choking all the weather cocks of Casterbridge creaked and set their faces in another direction , as if tired of the south west . 
The weather changed the sunlight , which had been like tin for weeks , assumed the hues of topaz . 
The temperament of the welkin passed from the phlegmatic to the sanguine an excellent harvest was almost a certainty and as a consequence prices rushed down . 
All these transformations , lovely to the outsider , to the wrong headed corn dealer were terrible . 
He was reminded of what he had well known before , that a man might gamble upon the square green areas of fields as readily as upon those of a card room . 
Henchard had backed bad weather , and apparently lost . 
He had mistaken the turn of the flood for the turn of the ebb . 
Much of the corn he had never seen it had not even been moved from the ricks in which it lay stacked miles away . 
In the blaze of an early August day he met Farfrae in the market place . 
and commiserated him for since their exchange of words in the South Walk they had been on stiffly speaking terms . 
Henchard for the moment appeared to resent the sympathy but he suddenly took a careless turn . 
Ho , no , no ! nothing serious , man ! he cried with fierce gaiety . 
Coming down the steps of the bank he encountered Jopp . 
The latter was in the act of taking off his hat to wipe his forehead , and saying , A fine hot day , to an acquaintance . 
You can wipe and wipe , and say , 'A fine hot day , can ye ! cried Henchard in a savage undertone , imprisoning Jopp between himself and the bank wall . 
My advice , sir , was to do what you thought best . 
It was the eve of harvest . 
Prices being low Farfrae was buying . 
were selling off too recklessly calculating with just a trifle too much certainty upon an abundant yield . 
So he went on buying old corn at its comparatively ridiculous price for the produce of the previous year , though not large , had been of excellent quality . 
When Henchard had squared his affairs in a disastrous way , and got rid of his burdensome purchases at a monstrous loss , the harvest began . 
There were three days of excellent weather , and then What if that curst conjuror should be right after all ! said Henchard . 
The fact was , that no sooner had the sickles begun to play than the atmosphere suddenly felt as if cress would grow in it without other nourishment . 
It rubbed people's cheeks like damp flannel when they walked abroad . 
From that day and hour it was clear that there was not to be so successful an ingathering after all . 
If Henchard had only waited long enough he might at least have avoided loss though he had not made a profit . 
But the momentum of his character knew no patience . 
At this turn of the scales he remained silent . 
The movements of his mind seemed to tend to the thought that some power was working against him . 
These isolated hours of superstition came to Henchard in time of moody depression , when all his practical largeness of view had oozed out of him . 
He had purchased in so depressed a market that the present moderate stiffness of prices was sufficient to pile for him a large heap of gold where a little one had been . 
Why , he'll soon be Mayor ! said Henchard . 
It was indeed hard that the speaker should , of all others , have to follow the triumphal chariot of this man to the Capitol . 
The rivalry of the masters was taken up by the men . 
September night shades had fallen upon Casterbridge the clocks had struck half past eight , and the moon had risen . 
The streets of the town were curiously silent for such a comparatively early hour . 
A sound of jangling horse bells and heavy wheels passed up the street . 
These were followed by angry voices outside Lucetta's house , which led her and Elizabeth Jane to run to the windows , and pull up the blinds . 
The neighbouring Market House and Town Hall abutted against its next neighbour the Church except in the lower storey , where an arched thoroughfare gave admittance to a large square called Bull Stake . 
A stone post rose in the midst , to which the oxen had formerly been tied for baiting with dogs to make them tender before they were killed in the adjoining shambles . 
In a corner stood the stocks . 
The passage of the vehicles might have been practicable if empty but built up with hay to the bedroom windows as one was , it was impossible . 
You must have done it a' purpose ! said Farfrae's waggoner . 
However , according to the strict rule of the road it appeared that Henchard's man was most in the wrong , he therefore attempted to back into the High Street . 
Instead of considering how to gather up the load the two men closed in a fight with their fists . 
Before the first round was quite over Henchard came upon the spot , somebody having run for him . 
Henchard sent the two men staggering in contrary directions by collaring one with each hand , turned to the horse that was down , and extricated him after some trouble . 
He then inquired into the circumstances and seeing the state of his waggon and its load began hotly rating Farfrae's man . 
The women had witnessed what nobody else had seen the origin of the mishap and Lucetta spoke . 
I saw it all , Mr. Henchard , she cried and your man was most in the wrong ! Henchard paused in his harangue and turned . 
Oh , I didn't notice you , Miss Templeman , said he . 
My man in the wrong ? Ah , to be sure to be sure ! But I beg your pardon notwithstanding . 
The other's is the empty waggon , and he must have been most to blame for coming on . 
No I saw it , too , said Elizabeth Jane . 
And I can assure you he couldn't help it . 
You can't trust THEIR senses ! murmured Henchard's man . 
Why not ? asked Henchard sharply . 
And that Mr. Farfrae is well aware of it ? He's sharp in trade , but he wouldn't do anything so underhand as what you hint at . 
This disappointed him , for he had been sufficiently disturbed by what the man had said to wish to speak to her more closely . 
While pausing the old constable came up . 
Just see that nobody drives against that hay and waggon to night , Stubberd , said the corn merchant . 
It must bide till the morning , for all hands are in the field still . 
And if any coach or road waggon wants to come along , tell 'em they must go round by the back street , and be hanged to 'em . 
Any case tomorrow up in Hall ? Yes , sir . 
One in number , sir . 
The Mayor's out o' town , isn't he ? He is , sir . 
Very well , then I'll be there . 
Don't forget to keep an eye on that hay . 
During those moments Henchard had determined to follow up Lucetta notwithstanding her elusiveness , and he knocked for admission . 
The answer he received was an expression of Miss Templeman's sorrow at being unable to see him again that evening because she had an engagement to go out . 
The lights disappeared , the clock struck nine , and almost at the moment Farfrae came round the opposite corner and knocked . 
That she had been waiting just inside for him was certain , for she instantly opened the door herself . 
They went together by the way of a back lane westward , avoiding the front street guessing where they were going he determined to follow . 
The harvest had been so delayed by the capricious weather that whenever a fine day occurred all sinews were strained to save what could be saved of the damaged crops . 
On account of the rapid shortening of the days the harvesters worked by moonlight . 
Hence to night the wheat fields abutting on the two sides of the square formed by Casterbridge town were animated by the gathering hands . 
Nearly the whole town had gone into the fields . 
Reaching the top of the lane Henchard crossed the shaded avenue on the walls , slid down the green rampart , and stood amongst the stubble . 
The stitches or shocks rose like tents about the yellow expanse , those in the distance becoming lost in the moonlit hazes . 
He had entered at a point removed from the scene of immediate operations but two others had entered at that place , and he could see them winding among the shocks . 
They were paying no regard to the direction of their walk , whose vague serpentining soon began to bear down towards Henchard . 
A meeting promised to be awkward , and he therefore stepped into the hollow of the nearest shock , and sat down . 
You have my leave , Lucetta was saying gaily . 
After some broken words which Henchard lost she added , Are you sure you won't be jealous ? Farfrae seemed to assure her that he would not , by taking her hand . 
You are convinced , Donald , that I love nobody else , she presently said . 
But I should wish to have my own way in some things . 
They went on towards the scene of activity , where the sheaves were being handed , a dozen a minute , upon the carts and waggons which carried them away . 
Lucetta insisted on parting from Farfrae when they drew near the workpeople . 
He had some business with them and , thought he entreated her to wait a few minutes , she was inexorable , and tripped off homeward alone . 
Henchard thereupon left the field and followed her . 
His state of mind was such that on reaching Lucetta's door he did not knock but opened it , and walked straight up to her sitting room , expecting to find her there . 
But the room was empty , and he perceived that in his haste he had somehow passed her on the way hither . 
He had not to wait many minutes , however , for he soon heard her dress rustling in the hall , followed by a soft closing of the door . 
In a moment she appeared . 
The light was so low that she did not notice Henchard at first . 
As soon as she saw him she uttered a little cry , almost of terror . 
How can you frighten me so ? she exclaimed , with a flushed face . 
It is past ten o'clock , and you have no right to surprise me here at such a time . 
I don't know that I've not the right . 
At any rate I have the excuse . 
Is it so necessary that I should stop to think of manners and customs ? It is too late for propriety , and might injure me . 
I called an hour ago , and you would not see me , and I thought you were in when I called now . 
It is you , Lucetta , who are doing wrong . 
It is not proper in 'ee to throw me over like this . 
I have a little matter to remind you of , which you seem to forget . 
She sank into a chair , and turned pale . 
But you ought to hear it , said he . 
It came to nothing and through you . 
Then why not leave me the freedom that I gained with such sorrow ! Had I found that you proposed to marry me for pure love I might have felt bound now . 
After that I did not care for you so deeply as before . 
And why then don't you think so now ? She was silent . 
It was only too obvious that conscience had ruled well enough till new love had intervened and usurped that rule . 
The only thing she could say was , I was a poor girl then and now my circumstances have altered , so I am hardly the same person . 
And it makes the case awkward for me . 
But I don't want to touch your money . 
I am quite willing that every penny of your property shall remain to your personal use . 
Besides , that argument has nothing in it . 
The man you are thinking of is no better than I. If you were as good as he you would leave me ! she cried passionately . 
You cannot in honour refuse me , he said . 
Henchard saw its bitterness and had Lucetta's heart been given to any other man in the world than Farfrae he would probably have had pity upon her at that moment . 
who had mounted into prominence upon his shoulders , and he could bring himself to show no mercy . 
Without another word she rang the bell , and directed that Elizabeth Jane should be fetched from her room . 
The latter appeared , surprised in the midst of her lucubrations . 
As soon as she saw Henchard she went across to him dutifully . 
Elizabeth Jane , he said , taking her hand , I want you to hear this . 
And turning to Lucetta Will you , or will you not , marry me ? If you wish it , I must agree ! You say yes ? I do . 
No sooner had she given the promise than she fell back in a fainting state . 
What dreadful thing drives her to say this , father , when it is such a pain to her ? asked Elizabeth , kneeling down by Lucetta . 
Don't compel her to do anything against her will ! I have lived with her , and know that she cannot bear much . 
Don't be a no'thern simpleton ! said Henchard drily . 
This promise will leave him free for you , if you want him , won't it ? At this Lucetta seemed to wake from her swoon with a start . 
Him ? Who are you talking about ? she said wildly . 
Nobody , as far as I am concerned , said Elizabeth firmly . 
Then it is my mistake , said Henchard . 
But the business is between me and Miss Templeman . 
She agrees to be my wife . 
But don't dwell on it just now , entreated Elizabeth , holding Lucetta's hand . 
I don't wish to , if she promises , said Henchard . 
I have , I have , groaned Lucetta , her limbs hanging like fluid , from very misery and faintness . 
Michael , please don't argue it any more ! I will not , he said . 
And taking up his hat he went away . 
Elizabeth Jane continued to kneel by Lucetta . 
What is this ? she said . 
I would not do anything against you at all ! stammered Elizabeth , keeping in all signs of emotion till she was ready to burst . 
I cannot understand how my father can command you so I don't sympathize with him in it at all . 
I'll go to him and ask him to release you . 
No , no , said Lucetta . 
The next morning Henchard went to the Town Hall below Lucetta's house , to attend Petty Sessions , being still a magistrate for the year by virtue of his late position as Mayor . 
In passing he looked up at her windows , but nothing of her was to be seen . 
Henchard as a Justice of the Peace may at first seem to be an even greater incongruity than Shallow and Silence themselves . 
There was one case only , and the offender stood before him . 
The steeped aspect of the woman as a whole showed her to be no native of the country side or even of a country town . 
Well , and what has she been doing ? he said , looking down at the charge sheet . 
She is charged , sir , with the offence of disorderly female and nuisance , whispered Stubberd . 
Where did she do that ? said the other magistrate . 
By the church , sir , of all the horrible places in the world ! I caught her in the act , your worship . 
Stand back then , said Henchard , and let's hear what you've got to say . 
When I had Don't go so fast , Stubberd , said the clerk . 
The constable waited , with his eyes on the clerk's pen , till the latter stopped scratching and said , yes . 
Stubberd continued When I had proceeded to the spot I saw defendant at another spot , namely , the gutter . 
He paused , watching the point of the clerk's pen again . 
Gutter , yes , Stubberd . 
Stubberd , with a suppressed gaze of victorious rectitude at the old woman , continued Was standing myself . 
She was wambling about quite dangerous to the thoroughfare and when I approached to draw near she committed the nuisance , and insulted me . 
Yes , what did she say ? She said , 'Put away that dee lantern , she says . 
Says she , 'Dost hear , old turmit head ? Put away that dee lantern . 
I have floored fellows a dee sight finer looking than a dee fool like thee , you son of a bee , dee me if I haint , she says . 
I object to that conversation ! interposed the old woman . 
I was not capable enough to hear what I said , and what is said out of my hearing is not evidence . 
There was another stoppage for consultation , a book was referred to , and finally Stubberd was allowed to go on again . 
The truth was that the old woman had appeared in court so many more times than the magistrates themselves , that they were obliged to keep a sharp look out upon their procedure . 
But Henchard stared , and quite forgot what was evidence and what was not . 
A man and a woman with a little child came into my tent , the woman continued . 
They sat down and had a basin apiece . 
I did it for the man and then he had more and more till at last he quarrelled with his wife , and offered to sell her to the highest bidder . 
A sailor came in and bid five guineas , and paid the money , and led her away . 
And the man who sold his wife in that fashion is the man sitting there in the great big chair . 
The speaker concluded by nodding her head at Henchard and folding her arms . 
His face seemed strange , and in tint as if it had been powdered over with ashes . 
We don't want to hear your life and adventures , said the second magistrate sharply , filling the pause which followed . 
You've been asked if you've anything to say bearing on the case . 
That bears on the case . 
It proves that he's no better than I , and has no right to sit there in judgment upon me . 
'Tis a concocted story , said the clerk . 
So hold your tongue ! No 'tis true . 
The words came from Henchard . 
'Tis as true as the light , he said slowly . 
The sensation in the court was indescribably great . 
This had brought them hither . 
Why are there so many idlers round the Town Hall to day ? said Lucetta to her servant when the case was over . 
She had risen late , and had just looked out of the window . 
Oh , please , ma'am , 'tis this larry about Mr. Henchard . 
A woman has proved that before he became a gentleman he sold his wife for five guineas in a booth at a fair . 
The story she now heard for the first time . 
A gradual misery overspread Lucetta's face as she dwelt upon the promise wrung from her the night before . 
At bottom , then , Henchard was this . 
How terrible a contingency for a woman who should commit herself to his care . 
During the day she went out to the Ring and to other places , not coming in till nearly dusk . 
Elizabeth , seeing that she looked wan and disturbed , encouraged her in the idea , thinking a change would afford her relief . 
She could not help suspecting that the gloom which seemed to have come over Casterbridge in Lucetta's eyes might be partially owing to the fact that Farfrae was away from home . 
Elizabeth saw her friend depart for Port Bredy , and took charge of High Place Hall till her return . 
After two or three days of solitude and incessant rain Henchard called at the house . 
He seemed disappointed to hear of Lucetta's absence and though he nodded with outward indifference he went away handling his beard with a nettled mien . 
The next day he called again . 
Is she come now ? he asked . 
She returned this morning , replied his step daughter . 
But she is not indoors . 
She has gone for a walk along the turnpike road to Port Bredy . 
She will be home by dusk . 
After a few words , which only served to reveal his restless impatience , he left the house again . 
At this hour Lucetta was bounding along the road to Port Bredy just as Elizabeth had announced . 
It was the day of the chief market Saturday and Farfrae for once had been missed from his corn stand in the dealers' room . 
Nevertheless , it was known that he would be home that night for Sunday , as Casterbridge expressed it . 
Lucetta , in continuing her walk , had at length reached the end of the ranked trees which bordered the highway in this and other directions out of the town . 
This end marked a mile and here she stopped . 
There was neither hedge nor tree in the prospect now , the road clinging to the stubby expanse of corn land like a strip to an undulating garment . 
Near her was a barn the single building of any kind within her horizon . 
She strained her eyes up the lessening road , but nothing appeared thereon not so much as a speck . 
She sighed one word Donald ! and turned her face to the town for retreat . 
Here the case was different . 
A single figure was approaching her Elizabeth Jane's . 
Lucetta , in spite of her loneliness , seemed a little vexed . 
Elizabeth's face , as soon as she recognized her friend , shaped itself into affectionate lines while yet beyond speaking distance . 
I suddenly thought I would come and meet you , she said , smiling . 
Lucetta's reply was taken from her lips by an unexpected diversion . 
In the latter quarter of each year cattle were at once the mainstay and the terror of families about Casterbridge and its neighbourhood , where breeding was carried on with Abrahamic success . 
Lucetta and Elizabeth regarded the animal in doubt , he meanwhile drawing vaguely towards them . 
It was a large specimen of the breed , in colour rich dun , though disfigured at present by splotches of mud about his seamy sides . 
His horns were thick and tipped with brass his two nostrils like the Thames Tunnel as seen in the perspective toys of yore . 
Between them , through the gristle of his nose , was a stout copper ring , welded on , and irremovable as Gurth's collar of brass . 
To the ring was attached an ash staff about a yard long , which the bull with the motions of his head flung about like a flail . 
They looked round for some shelter or hiding place , and thought of the barn hard by . 
This caused the two helpless girls to run wildly , whereupon the bull advanced in a deliberate charge . 
The interior had been cleared by a recent bout of threshing except at one end , where there was a stack of dry clover . 
Elizabeth Jane took in the situation . 
We must climb up there , she said . 
The mistaken creature saw them , and stalked towards the end of the barn into which they had fled . 
The girls doubled so adroitly that their pursuer was against the wall when the fugitives were already half way to the other end . 
What might have happened had their situation continued cannot be said but in a few moments a rattling of the door distracted their adversary's attention , and a man appeared . 
He ran forward towards the leading staff , seized it , and wrenched the animal's head as if he would snap it off . 
The wrench was in reality so violent that the thick neck seemed to have lost its stiffness and to become half paralyzed , whilst the nose dropped blood . 
The premeditated human contrivance of the nose ring was too cunning for impulsive brute force , and the creature flinched . 
The man was seen in the partial gloom to be large framed and unhesitating . 
He led the bull to the door , and the light revealed Henchard . 
He made the bull fast without , and re entered to the succour of Lucetta for he had not perceived Elizabeth , who had climbed on to the clover heap . 
Lucetta was hysterical , and Henchard took her in his arms and carried her to the door . 
You have saved me ! she cried , as soon as she could speak . 
I have returned your kindness , he responded tenderly . 
How comes it to be you you ? she asked , not heeding his reply . 
I came out here to look for you . 
I have been wanting to tell you something these two or three days but you have been away , and I could not . 
Henchard supporting Lucetta on one side , and Elizabeth Jane on the other , they went slowly along the rising road . 
They had reached the top and were descending again when Lucetta , now much recovered , recollected that she had dropped her muff in the barn . 
I'll run back , said Elizabeth Jane . 
I don't mind it at all , as I am not tired as you are . 
She thereupon hastened down again to the barn , the others pursuing their way . 
Elizabeth soon found the muff , such an article being by no means small at that time . 
Coming out she paused to look for a moment at the bull , now rather to be pitied with his bleeding nose , having perhaps rather intended a practical joke than a murder . 
Henchard had secured him by jamming the staff into the hinge of the barn door , and wedging it there with a stake . 
At length she turned to hasten onward after her contemplation , when she saw a green and black gig approaching from the contrary direction , the vehicle being driven by Farfrae . 
His presence here seemed to explain Lucetta's walk that way . 
Donald saw her , drew up , and was hastily made acquainted with what had occurred . 
At Elizabeth Jane mentioning how greatly Lucetta had been jeopardized , he exhibited an agitation different in kind no less than in intensity from any she had seen in him before . 
He became so absorbed in the circumstance that he scarcely had sufficient knowledge of what he was doing to think of helping her up beside him . 
She has gone on with Mr. Henchard , you say ? he inquired at last . 
He is taking her home . 
They are almost there by this time . 
And you are sure she can get home ? Elizabeth Jane was quite sure . 
Your stepfather saved her ? Entirely . 
Farfrae checked his horse's pace she guessed why . 
He was thinking that it would be best not to intrude on the other two just now . 
Henchard had saved Lucetta , and to provoke a possible exhibition of her deeper affection for himself was as ungenerous as it was unwise . 
The face of the woman was frequently turned back , but Farfrae did not whip on the horse . 
These phenomena , however , seemed to cause him not the least surprise . 
When will everything be sent up ? he said to the mistress of the house , who was superintending . 
I am afraid not before eight , sir , said she . 
You see we wasn't aware till this morning that you were going to move , or we could have been forwarder . 
A well , never mind , never mind ! said Farfrae cheerily . 
Eight o'clock will do well enough if it be not later . 
Now , don't ye be standing here talking , or it will be twelve , I doubt . 
Thus speaking he went out by the front door and up the street . 
During this interval Henchard and Lucetta had had experiences of a different kind . 
After Elizabeth's departure for the muff the corn merchant opened himself frankly , holding her hand within his arm , though she would fain have withdrawn it . 
You said to me , 'If I were a man I should not insist . 
I felt that there was some truth in it . 
I don't want to make you wretched and to marry me just now would do that as nothing else could it is but too plain . 
Therefore I agree to an indefinite engagement to put off all thought of marriage for a year or two . 
But but can I do nothing of a different kind ? said Lucetta . 
I am full of gratitude to you you have saved my life . 
And your care of me is like coals of fire on my head ! I am a monied person now . 
Surely I can do something in return for your goodness something practical ? Henchard remained in thought . 
He had evidently not expected this . 
There is one thing you might do , Lucetta , he said . 
But not exactly of that kind . 
Then of what kind is it ? she asked with renewed misgiving . 
I must tell you a secret to ask it . 
You may have heard that I have been unlucky this year ? I did what I have never done before speculated rashly and I lost . 
That's just put me in a strait . 
And you would wish me to advance some money ? No , no ! said Henchard , almost in anger . 
I'm not the man to sponge on a woman , even though she may be so nearly my own as you . 
No , Lucetta what you can do is this and it would save me . 
Nobody else need know you could go with me to Mr. Grower and just let me speak to 'ee before him as if we were on such terms . 
We'll ask him to keep it secret . 
He will willingly wait then . 
At the fortnight's end I shall be able to face him and I can coolly tell him all is postponed between us for a year or two . 
Not a soul in the town need know how you've helped me . 
Since you wish to be of use , there's your way . 
If it were anything else , she began , and the dryness of her lips was represented in her voice . 
But it is such a little thing ! he said , with a deep reproach . 
Less than you have offered just the beginning of what you have so lately promised ! I could have told him as much myself , but he would not have believed me . 
It is not because I won't it is because I absolutely can't , she said , with rising distress . 
You are provoking ! he burst out . 
It is enough to make me force you to carry out at once what you have promised . 
I cannot ! she insisted desperately . 
Why ? When I have only within these few minutes released you from your promise to do the thing offhand . 
Because he was a witness ! Witness ? Of what ? If I must tell you . 
Don't , don't upbraid me ! Well ! Let's hear what you mean ? Witness of my marriage Mr. Grower was ! Marriage ? Yes . 
O Michael ! I am already his wife . 
We were married this week at Port Bredy . 
There were reasons against our doing it here . 
Mr. Grower was a witness because he happened to be at Port Bredy at the time . 
Henchard stood as if idiotized . 
She was so alarmed at his silence that she murmured something about lending him sufficient money to tide over the perilous fortnight . 
Married him ? said Henchard at length . 
But you will not do so now , will you , Michael ? for it is too late to separate us . 
Then this racket they are making is on account of it , I suppose ? said he . 
Yes I think he has told them , or else Mr. Grower has . 
May I leave you now ? My he was detained at Port Bredy to day , and sent me on a few hours before him . 
Then it is HIS WIFE'S life I have saved this afternoon . 
Yes and he will be for ever grateful to you . 
I am much obliged to him . 
O you false woman ! burst from Henchard . 
I'll help you to pay off your debt . 
A pensioner of Farfrae's wife not I ! Don't stay with me longer I shall say something worse . 
Go home ! She disappeared under the trees of the south walk as the band came round the corner , awaking the echoes of every stock and stone in celebration of her happiness . 
Lucetta took no heed , but ran up the back street and reached her own home unperceived . 
Farfrae's words to his landlady had referred to the removal of his boxes and other effects from his late lodgings to Lucetta's house . 
Moreover , there was a convenience in Lucetta arriving first at her house . 
Nobody there as yet knew what had happened and she was best in a position to break the news to the inmates , and give directions for her husband's accommodation . 
This accounted for her trotting out to meet him after their separation of four hours . 
By a strenuous effort , after leaving Henchard she calmed herself in readiness to receive Donald at High Place Hall when he came on from his lodgings . 
One supreme fact empowered her to this , the sense that , come what would , she had secured him . 
Half an hour after her arrival he walked in , and she met him with a relieved gladness , which a month's perilous absence could not have intensified . 
There is one thing I have not done and yet it is important , she said earnestly , when she had finished talking about the adventure with the bull . 
That is , broken the news of our marriage to my dear Elizabeth Jane . 
Ah , and you have not ? he said thoughtfully . 
She can hardly have heard of it . 
But I'll find out I'll go to her now . 
And , Donald , you don't mind her living on with me just the same as before ? She is so quiet and unassuming . 
O no , indeed I don't , Farfrae answered with , perhaps , a faint awkwardness . 
But I wonder if she would care to ? O yes ! said Lucetta eagerly . 
I am sure she would like to . 
Besides , poor thing , she has no other home . 
Farfrae looked at her and saw that she did not suspect the secret of her more reserved friend . 
He liked her all the better for the blindness . 
Arrange as you like with her by all means , he said . 
It is I who have come to your house , not you to mine . 
I'll run and speak to her , said Lucetta . 
When she got upstairs to Elizabeth Jane's room the latter had taken off her out door things , and was resting over a book . 
Lucetta found in a moment that she had not yet learnt the news . 
I did not come down to you , Miss Templeman , she said simply . 
I was coming to ask if you had quite recovered from your fright , but I found you had a visitor . 
What are the bells ringing for , I wonder ? And the band , too , is playing . 
Somebody must be married or else they are practising for Christmas . 
Lucetta uttered a vague Yes , and seating herself by the other young woman looked musingly at her . 
What a lonely creature you are , she presently said never knowing what's going on , or what people are talking about everywhere with keen interest . 
You should get out , and gossip about as other women do , and then you wouldn't be obliged to ask me a question of that kind . 
Well , now , I have something to tell you . 
Elizabeth Jane said she was so glad , and made herself receptive . 
I must go rather a long way back , said Lucetta , the difficulty of explaining herself satisfactorily to the pondering one beside her growing more apparent at each syllable . 
O yes I remember the story of YOUR FRIEND , said Elizabeth drily , regarding the irises of Lucetta's eyes as though to catch their exact shade . 
O no she didn't follow evil exactly ! said Lucetta hastily . 
Then I will tell you that the case is more complicated worse , in fact than it seemed in my story . 
I and the first man were thrown together in a strange way , and felt that we ought to be united , as the world had talked of us . 
He was a widower , as he supposed . 
He had not heard of his first wife for many years . 
But the wife returned , and we parted . 
She is now dead , and the husband comes paying me addresses again , saying , 'Now we'll complete our purposes . 
But , Elizabeth Jane , all this amounts to a new courtship of me by him I was absolved from all vows by the return of the other woman . 
Have you not lately renewed your promise ? said the younger with quiet surmise . 
She had divined Man Number One . 
That was wrung from me by a threat . 
Lucetta's countenance lost its sparkle . 
He turned out to be a man I should be afraid to marry , she pleaded . 
Really afraid ! And it was not till after my renewed promise that I knew it . 
Then there is only one course left to honesty . 
You must remain a single woman . 
But think again ! Do consider I am certain , interrupted her companion hardily . 
I have guessed very well who the man is . 
My father and I say it is him or nobody for you . 
Any suspicion of impropriety was to Elizabeth Jane like a red rag to a bull . 
Her craving for correctness of procedure was , indeed , almost vicious . 
Owing to her early troubles with regard to her mother a semblance of irregularity had terrors for her which those whose names are safeguarded from suspicion know nothing of . 
You ought to marry Mr. Henchard or nobody certainly not another man ! she went on with a quivering lip in whose movement two passions shared . 
I don't admit that ! said Lucetta passionately . 
Admit it or not , it is true ! Lucetta covered her eyes with her right hand , as if she could plead no more , holding out her left to Elizabeth Jane . 
Why , you HAVE married him ! cried the latter , jumping up with pleasure after a glance at Lucetta's fingers . 
And it is true that he is stern sometimes . 
But you will rule him entirely , I am sure , with your beauty and wealth and accomplishments . 
You are the woman he will adore , and we shall all three be happy together now ! O , my Elizabeth Jane ! cried Lucetta distressfully . 
The bells are ringing on that account , she said . 
He will live here till a more suitable house is ready for us and I have told him that I want you to stay with me just as before . 
Let me think of it alone , the girl quickly replied , corking up the turmoil of her feeling with grand control . 
I am sure we shall be happy together . 
Lucetta departed to join Donald below , a vague uneasiness floating over her joy at seeing him quite at home there . 
Not on account of her friend Elizabeth did she feel it for of the bearings of Elizabeth Jane's emotions she had not the least suspicion but on Henchard's alone . 
Now the instant decision of Susan Henchard's daughter was to dwell in that house no more . 
Apart from her estimate of the propriety of Lucetta's conduct , Farfrae had been so nearly her avowed lover that she felt she could not abide there . 
It was still early in the evening when she hastily put on her things and went out . 
In a few minutes , knowing the ground , she had found a suitable lodging , and arranged to enter it that night . 
They were in the street in which Henchard lived , and almost opposite his door . 
Here she sat down and considered the means of subsistence . 
The little annual sum settled on her by her stepfather would keep body and soul together . 
By this time the marriage that had taken place was known throughout Casterbridge had been discussed noisily on kerbstones , confidentially behind counters , and jovially at the Three Mariners . 
The amends he had made in after life were lost sight of in the dramatic glare of the original act . 
burgher of to day had scarcely a point in common . 
But the act having lain as dead and buried ever since , the interspace of years was unperceived and the black spot of his youth wore the aspect of a recent crime . 
Small as the police court incident had been in itself , it formed the edge or turn in the incline of Henchard's fortunes . 
On that day almost at that minute he passed the ridge of prosperity and honour , and began to descend rapidly on the other side . 
It was strange how soon he sank in esteem . 
Socially he had received a startling fillip downwards and , having already lost commercial buoyancy from rash transactions , the velocity of his descent in both aspects became accelerated every hour . 
New events combined to undo him . 
It had been a bad year for others besides himself , and the heavy failure of a debtor whom he had trusted generously completed the overthrow of his tottering credit . 
And now , in his desperation , he failed to preserve that strict correspondence between bulk and sample which is the soul of commerce in grain . 
The produce if honestly offered would have created no scandal but the blunder of misrepresentation , coming at such a moment , dragged Henchard's name into the ditch . 
The details of his failure were of the ordinary kind . 
One day Elizabeth Jane was passing the King's Arms , when she saw people bustling in and out more than usual where there was no market . 
A bystander informed her , with some surprise at her ignorance , that it was a meeting of the Commissioners under Mr. Henchard's bankruptcy . 
She felt quite tearful , and when she heard that he was present in the hotel she wished to go in and see him , but was advised not to intrude that day . 
The room in which debtor and creditors had assembled was a front one , and Henchard , looking out of the window , had caught sight of Elizabeth Jane through the wire blind . 
His examination had closed , and the creditors were leaving . 
His countenance had somewhat changed from its flush of prosperity the black hair and whiskers were the same as ever , but a film of ash was over the rest . 
Gentlemen , he said , over and above the assets that we've been talking about , and that appear on the balance sheet , there be these . 
The latter he drew back quickly for an instant , to remove the hair guard made and given him by Lucetta . 
There , now you have all I've got in the world , he said . 
And I wish for your sakes 'twas more . 
The creditors , farmers almost to a man , looked at the watch , and at the money , and into the street when Farmer James Everdene of Weatherbury spoke . 
No , no , Henchard , he said warmly . 
'Tis honourable in ye but keep it . 
What do you say , neighbours do ye agree ? Ay , sure we don't wish it at all , said Grower , another creditor . 
Let him keep it , of course , murmured another in the background a silent , reserved young man named Boldwood and the rest responded unanimously . 
I've proved the balance sheet to be as honestly made out as it could possibly be we have had no trouble there have been no evasions and no concealments . 
The rashness of dealing which led to this unhappy situation is obvious enough but as far as I can see every attempt has been made to avoid wronging anybody . 
Henchard was more affected by this than he cared to let them perceive , and he turned aside to the window again . 
A general murmur of agreement followed the Commissioner's words , and the meeting dispersed . 
When they were gone Henchard regarded the watch they had returned to him . 
'Tisn't mine by rights , he said to himself . 
Try as she might , Elizabeth could never meet with him . 
She believed in him still , though nobody else did and she wanted to be allowed to forgive him for his roughness to her , and to help him in his trouble . 
She wrote to him he did not reply . 
Elizabeth thought it odd that he had fixed on this spot to retire to , but assumed that necessity had no choice . 
In this cottage he occupied a couple of rooms , Jopp , whom Henchard had employed , abused , cajoled , and dismissed by turns , being the householder . 
But even here her stepfather could not be seen . 
Not by his daughter ? pleaded Elizabeth . 
By nobody at present that's his order , she was informed . 
Afterwards she was passing by the corn stores and hay barns which had been the headquarters of his business . 
She knew that he ruled there no longer but it was with amazement that she regarded the familiar gateway . 
A smear of decisive lead coloured paint had been laid on to obliterate Henchard's name , though its letters dimly loomed through like ships in a fog . 
Over these , in fresh white , spread the name of Farfrae . 
We work harder , but we bain't made afeard now . 
Two bridges stood near the lower part of Casterbridge town . 
The second bridge , of stone , was further out on the highway in fact , fairly in the meadows , though still within the town boundary . 
These bridges had speaking countenances . 
In the case of the more friable bricks and stones even the flat faces were worn into hollows by the same mixed mechanism . 
For to this pair of bridges gravitated all the failures of the town those who had failed in business , in love , in sobriety , in crime . 
Why the unhappy hereabout usually chose the bridges for their meditations in preference to a railing , a gate , or a stile , was not so clear . 
There was a marked difference of quality between the personages who haunted the near bridge of brick and the personages who haunted the far one of stone . 
Those of lowest character preferred the former , adjoining the town they did not mind the glare of the public eye . 
They had been of comparatively no account during their successes and though they might feel dispirited , they had no particular sense of shame in their ruin . 
Instead of sighing at their adversities they spat , and instead of saying the iron had entered into their souls they said they were down on their luck . 
Jopp in his time of distress had often stood here so had Mother Cuxsom , Christopher Coney , and poor Abel Whittle . 
The miserables who would pause on the remoter bridge were of a politer stamp . 
The eye of this species were mostly directed over the parapet upon the running water below . 
A man seen there looking thus fixedly into the river was pretty sure to be one whom the world did not treat kindly for some reason or other . 
To this bridge came Henchard , as other unfortunates had come before him , his way thither being by the riverside path on the chilly edge of the town . 
Here he was standing one windy afternoon when Durnover church clock struck five . 
While the gusts were bringing the notes to his ears across the damp intervening flat a man passed behind him and greeted Henchard by name . 
Henchard returned him a scarcely perceptible nod , and Jopp stopped . 
He and she are gone into their new house to day , said Jopp . 
Oh , said Henchard absently . 
Which house is that ? Your old one . 
It was quite true he felt that it was doing him no harm . 
Farfrae , who had already taken the yards and stores , had acquired possession of the house for the obvious convenience of its contiguity . 
And yet this act of his taking up residence within those roomy chambers while he , their former tenant , lived in a cottage , galled Henchard indescribably . 
My furniture too ! Surely he'll buy my body and soul likewise ! There's no saying he won't , if you be willing to sell . 
The low land grew blacker , and the sky a deeper grey , When the landscape looked like a picture blotted in with ink , another traveller approached the great stone bridge . 
He was driving a gig , his direction being also townwards . 
On the round of the middle of the arch the gig stopped . 
Mr Henchard ? came from it in the voice of Farfrae . 
Finding that he had guessed rightly Farfrae told the man who accompanied him to drive home while he alighted and went up to his former friend . 
I have heard that you think of emigrating , Mr. Henchard ? he said . 
Is it true ? I have a real reason for asking . 
Henchard withheld his answer for several instants , and then said , Yes it is true . 
I am going where you were going to a few years ago , when I prevented you and got you to bide here . 
But now I stand without a stick or a rag , and the master of that house is you . 
Yes , yes that's so ! It's the way o' the warrld , said Farfrae . 
Ha , ha , true ! cried Henchard , throwing himself into a mood of jocularity . 
Up and down ! I'm used to it . 
What's the odds after all ! Now listen to me , if it's no taking up your time , said Farfrae , just as I listened to you . 
But I can do nothing else , man ! said Henchard scornfully . 
The little money I have will just keep body and soul together for a few weeks , and no more . 
I have not felt inclined to go back to journey work yet but I can't stay doing nothing , and my best chance is elsewhere . 
No but what I propose is this if ye will listen . 
Come and live in your old house . 
We can spare some rooms very well I am sure my wife would not mind it at all until there's an opening for ye . 
Probably the picture drawn by the unsuspecting Donald of himself under the same roof with Lucetta was too striking to be received with equanimity . 
No , no , he said gruffly we should quarrel . 
You should hae a part to yourself , said Farfrae and nobody to interfere wi' you . 
It will be a deal healthier than down there by the river where you live now . 
You don't know what you ask , he said . 
However , I can do no less than thank 'ee . 
They walked into the town together side by side , as they had done when Henchard persuaded the young Scotchman to remain . 
Will you come in and have some supper ? said Farfrae when they reached the middle of the town , where their paths diverged right and left . 
By the bye , I had nearly forgot . 
I bought a good deal of your furniture . 
And take them to your own house it will not be depriving me , we can do with less very well , and I will have plenty of opportunities of getting more . 
What give it to me for nothing ? said Henchard . 
But you paid the creditors for it ! Ah , yes but maybe it's worth more to you than it is to me . 
Henchard was a little moved . 
I sometimes think I've wronged 'ee ! he said , in tones which showed the disquietude that the night shades hid in his face . 
He shook Farfrae abruptly by the hand , and hastened away as if unwilling to betray himself further . 
Farfrae saw him turn through the thoroughfare into Bull Stake and vanish down towards the Priory Mill . 
She avoided looking that way as much as possible , but it was hardly in human nature to keep the eyes averted when the door slammed . 
While living on thus quietly she heard the news that Henchard had caught cold and was confined to his room possibly a result of standing about the meads in damp weather . 
She went off to his house at once . 
This time she was determined not to be denied admittance , and made her way upstairs . 
He was sitting up in the bed with a greatcoat round him , and at first resented her intrusion . 
Go away go away , he said . 
I don't like to see 'ee ! But , father I don't like to see 'ee , he repeated . 
However , the ice was broken , and she remained . 
She made the room more comfortable , gave directions to the people below , and by the time she went away had reconciled her stepfather to her visiting him . 
The effect , either of her ministrations or of her mere presence , was a rapid recovery . 
He soon was well enough to go out and now things seemed to wear a new colour in his eyes . 
He no longer thought of emigration , and thought more of Elizabeth . 
He was engaged at once . 
This hiring of Henchard was done through a foreman , Farfrae feeling that it was undesirable to come personally in contact with the ex corn factor more than was absolutely necessary . 
While anxious to help him he was well aware by this time of his uncertain temper , and thought reserved relations best . 
For the same reason his orders to Henchard to proceed to this and that country farm trussing in the usual way were always given through a third person . 
When this was all done , and Henchard had become in a measure broken in , he came to work daily on the home premises like the rest . 
And thus the once flourishing merchant and Mayor and what not stood as a day labourer in the barns and granaries he formerly had owned . 
Then he had worn clean , suitable clothes , light and cheerful in hue leggings yellow as marigolds , corduroys immaculate as new flax , and a neckerchief like a flower garden . 
Now he wore the remains of an old blue cloth suit of his gentlemanly times , a rusty silk hat , and a once black satin stock , soiled and shabby . 
At the beginning of the winter it was rumoured about Casterbridge that Mr. Farfrae , already in the Town Council , was to be proposed for Mayor in a year or two . 
Yes , she was wise , she was wise in her generation ! said Henchard to himself when he heard of this one day on his way to Farfrae's hay barn . 
A fellow of his age going to be Mayor , indeed ! he murmured with a corner drawn smile on his mouth . 
But 'tis her money that floats en upward . 
He repeated these things a hundred times a day . 
During the whole period of his acquaintance with Lucetta he had never wished to claim her as his own so desperately as he now regretted her loss . 
It had given her servants , house , and fine clothing a setting that invested Lucetta with a startling novelty in the eyes of him who had known her in her narrow days . 
He accordingly lapsed into moodiness , and at every allusion to the possibility of Farfrae's near election to the municipal chair his former hatred of the Scotchman returned . 
Concurrently with this he underwent a moral change . 
Why d'ye say only a dozen days ? asked Solomon Longways as he worked beside Henchard in the granary weighing oats . 
Because in twelve days I shall be released from my oath . 
What oath ? The oath to drink no spirituous liquid . 
She was wondering what was the matter , when a third person who was passing by asked the question in her mind . 
Michael Henchard have busted out drinking after taking nothing for twenty one years ! Elizabeth Jane jumped up , put on her things , and went out . 
At this date there prevailed in Casterbridge a convivial custom scarcely recognized as such , yet none the less established . 
The rear was usually brought up by the choir , with their bass viols , fiddles , and flutes under their arms . 
The great point , the point of honour , on these sacred occasions was for each man to strictly limit himself to half a pint of liquor . 
This scrupulosity was so well understood by the landlord that the whole company was served in cups of that measure . 
They were all exactly alike straight sided , with two leafless lime trees done in eel brown on the sides one towards the drinker's lips , the other confronting his comrade . 
To wonder how many of these cups the landlord possessed altogether was a favourite exercise of children in the marvellous . 
The conversation was not the conversation of week days , but a thing altogether finer in point and higher in tone . 
The bass viol player and the clerk usually spoke with more authority than the rest on account of their official connection with the preacher . 
Now the Three Mariners was the inn chosen by Henchard as the place for closing his long term of dramless years . 
He had so timed his entry as to be well established in the large room by the time the forty church goers entered to their customary cups . 
The flush upon his face proclaimed at once that the vow of twenty one years had lapsed , and the era of recklessness begun anew . 
Henchard did not take the trouble to reply for a few moments , and his eyes rested on his stretched out legs and boots . 
Yes , he said at length that's true . 
I've been down in spirit for weeks some of ye know the cause . 
I am better now , but not quite serene . 
With all my heart , said the first fiddle . 
We've let back our strings , that's true , but we can soon pull 'em up again . 
Sound A , neighbours , and give the man a stave . 
I don't care a curse what the words be , said Henchard . 
Hymns , ballets , or rantipole rubbish the Rogue's March or the cherubim's warble 'tis all the same to me if 'tis good harmony , and well put out . 
I'll find some words to fit en . 
He took one of the psalters and began turning over the leaves . 
Among the rest of the leading inhabitants walked Mr. Councillor Farfrae with Lucetta upon his arm , the observed and imitated of all the smaller tradesmen's womankind . 
Henchard's mouth changed a little , and he continued to turn over the leaves . 
Now then , he said , Psalm the Hundred and Ninth , to the tune of Wiltshire verses ten to fifteen . 
I gi'e ye the words His seed shall orphans be , his wife A widow plunged in grief His vagrant children beg their bread Where none can give relief . 
His ill got riches shall be made To usurers a prey The fruit of all his toil shall be By strangers borne away . 
None shall be found that to his wants Their mercy will extend , Or to his helpless orphan seed The least assistance lend . 
A swift destruction soon shall seize On his unhappy race And the next age his hated name Shall utterly deface . 
I know the Psa'am I know the Psa'am ! said the leader hastily but I would as lief not sing it . 
We chose it once when the gipsy stole the pa'son's mare , thinking to please him , but pa'son were quite upset . 
'Od seize your sauce I tell ye to sing the Hundred and Ninth to Wiltshire , and sing it you shall ! roared Henchard . 
So the instruments were tuned and the comminatory verses sung . 
Thank ye , thank ye , said Henchard in a softened voice , his eyes growing downcast , and his manner that of a man much moved by the strains . 
Don't you blame David , he went on in low tones , shaking his head without raising his eyes . 
He knew what he was about when he wrote that ! . 
There's the man we've been singing about , said Henchard . 
The players and singers turned their heads and saw his meaning . 
Heaven forbid ! said the bass player . 
'Tis the man , repeated Henchard doggedly . 
But , thought I , as it was made so long ago perhaps there isn't much in it , so I'll oblige a neighbour for there's nothing to be said against the tune . 
Ah , my boys , you've sung it , said Henchard triumphantly . 
As for him , it was partly by his songs that he got over me , and heaved me out . 
I could double him up like that and yet I don't . 
He laid the poker across his knee , bent it as if it were a twig , flung it down , and came away from the door . 
It was at this time that Elizabeth Jane , having heard where her stepfather was , entered the room with a pale and agonized countenance . 
The choir and the rest of the company moved off , in accordance with their half pint regulation . 
Elizabeth Jane went up to Henchard , and entreated him to accompany her home . 
By this hour the volcanic fires of his nature had burnt down , and having drunk no great quantity as yet he was inclined to acquiesce . 
She took his arm , and together they went on . 
Henchard walked blankly , like a blind man , repeating to himself the last words of the singers And the next age his hated name Shall utterly deface . 
At length he said to her , I am a man to my word . 
I have kept my oath for twenty one years and now I can drink with a good conscience . 
What will you do ? she asked cautiously , while trembling with disquietude , and guessing Henchard's allusion only too well . 
Henchard did not answer , and they went on till they had reached his cottage . 
May I come in ? she said . 
No , no not to day , said Henchard and she went away feeling that to caution Farfrae was almost her duty , as it was certainly her strong desire . 
She kept her eye upon Henchard also . 
One day he answered her inquiry for his health by saying that he could not endure Abel Whittle's pitying eyes upon him while they worked together in the yard . 
He is such a fool , said Henchard , that he can never get out of his mind the time when I was master there . 
I'll come and wimble for you instead of him , if you will allow me , said she . 
Her motive on going to the yard was to get an opportunity of observing the general position of affairs on Farfrae's premises now that her stepfather was a workman there . 
Henchard's threats had alarmed her so much that she wished to see his behaviour when the two were face to face . 
For two or three days after her arrival Donald did not make any appearance . 
Then one afternoon the green door opened , and through came , first Farfrae , and at his heels Lucetta . 
Donald brought his wife forward without hesitation , it being obvious that he had no suspicion whatever of any antecedents in common between her and the now journeyman hay trusser . 
Henchard did not turn his eyes toward either of the pair , keeping them fixed on the bond he twisted , as if that alone absorbed him . 
Henchard , with withering humility of demeanour , touched the brim of his hat to her as Whittle and the rest had done , to which she breathed a dead alive Good afternoon . 
I beg your pardon , ma'am ? said Henchard , as if he had not heard . 
I said good afternoon , she faltered . 
O yes , good afternoon , ma'am , he replied , touching his hat again . 
I am glad to see you , ma'am . 
Lucetta looked embarrassed , and Henchard continued For we humble workmen here feel it a great honour that a lady should look in and take an interest in us . 
She glanced at him entreatingly the sarcasm was too bitter , too unendurable . 
Can you tell me the time , ma'am ? he asked . 
Yes , she said hastily half past four . 
An hour and a half longer before we are released from work . 
That she had been taken by surprise was obvious . 
The result of this casual rencounter was that the next morning a note was put into Henchard's hand by the postman . 
I have committed no crime , and done you no injury . 
Poor fool ! said Henchard with fond savagery , holding out the note . 
To know no better than commit herself in writing like this ! Why , if I were to show that to her dear husband pooh ! He threw the letter into the fire . 
Lucetta took care not to come again among the hay and corn . 
She would rather have died than run the risk of encountering Henchard at such close quarters a second time . 
The gulf between them was growing wider every day . 
Henchard saw this , and concealed his feelings under a cover of stolidity , fortifying his heart by drinking more freely at the Three Mariners every evening . 
Often did Elizabeth Jane , in her endeavours to prevent his taking other liquor , carry tea to him in a little basket at five o'clock . 
Arriving one day on this errand she found her stepfather was measuring up clover seed and rape seed in the corn stores on the top floor , and she ascended to him . 
Each floor had a door opening into the air under a cat head , from which a chain dangled for hoisting the sacks . 
Not to interrupt them she remained on the steps without raising her head any higher . 
But it would have been possible , by a comparatively light touch , to push Farfrae off his balance , and send him head over heels into the air . 
Elizabeth felt quite sick at heart on thinking of what this MIGHT have meant . 
As soon as they turned she mechanically took the tea to Henchard , left it , and went away . 
Reflecting , she endeavoured to assure herself that the movement was an idle eccentricity , and no more . 
Next morning , accordingly , she rose at five o'clock and went into the street . 
She met him at the point where the last tree of the engirding avenue flanked the last house in the street . 
But I am anxious to mention something , she said . 
And I wished not to alarm Mrs. Farfrae by calling . 
Yes ? said he , with the cheeriness of a superior . 
And what may it be ? It's very kind of ye , I'm sure . 
She now felt the difficulty of conveying to his mind the exact aspect of possibilities in her own . 
But she somehow began , and introduced Henchard's name . 
I sometimes fear , she said with an effort , that he may be betrayed into some attempt to insult you , sir . 
But we are the best of friends ? Or to play some practical joke upon you , sir . 
Remember that he has been hardly used . 
But we are quite friendly ? Or to do something that would injure you hurt you wound you . 
Every word cost her twice its length of pain . 
And she could see that Farfrae was still incredulous . 
Henchard , a poor man in his employ , was not to Farfrae's view the Henchard who had ruled him . 
Yet he was not only the same man , but that man with his sinister qualities , formerly latent , quickened into life by his buffetings . 
Farfrae , happy , and thinking no evil , persisted in making light of her fears . 
Elizabeth entered her lodging unhappily , thinking she had done no good , and only made herself appear foolish by her weak note of warning . 
But Donald Farfrae was one of those men upon whom an incident is never absolutely lost . 
He revised impressions from a subsequent point of view , and the impulsive judgment of the moment was not always his permanent one . 
The vision of Elizabeth's earnest face in the rimy dawn came back to him several times during the day . 
Knowing the solidity of her character he did not treat her hints altogether as idle sounds . 
About that little seedsman's shop , he said , the shop overlooking the churchyard , which is to let . 
It is not for myself I want it , but for our unlucky fellow townsman Henchard . 
Yes , yes so I've heard and there's nothing to say against it for that matter , the town clerk replied , in his plain , frank way . 
But , Farfrae , others see what you don't . 
Henchard hates 'ee ay , hates 'ee and 'tis right that you should know it . 
To my knowledge he was at the Three Mariners last night , saying in public that about you which a man ought not to say about another . 
Is that so ah , is that so ? said Farfrae , looking down . 
It shows much long suffering in you to put up with him , and keep him in your employ . 
But I cannet discharge a man who was once a good friend to me . 
How can I forget that when I came here 'twas he enabled me to make a footing for mysel' ? No , no . 
As long as I've a day's work to offer he shall do it if he chooses . 
'Tis not I who will deny him such a little as that . 
But I'll drop the idea of establishing him in a shop till I can think more about it . 
It grieved Farfrae much to give up this scheme . 
But a damp having been thrown over it by these and other voices in the air , he went and countermanded his orders . 
And thus out of error enmity grew . 
When Farfrae got indoors that evening the tea kettle was singing on the high hob of the semi egg shaped grate . 
Lucetta , light as a sylph , ran forward and seized his hands , whereupon Farfrae duly kissed her . 
Oh ! she cried playfully , turning to the window . 
Without directly inquiring why she let her eyes linger solicitously on his face . 
Who has called ? he absently asked . 
Any folk for me ? No , said Lucetta . 
What's the matter , Donald ? Well nothing worth talking of , he responded sadly . 
Then , never mind it . 
You will get through it , Scotchmen are always lucky . 
No not always ! he said , shaking his head gloomily as he contemplated a crumb on the table . 
Now when we have finished tea , sing me that funny song about high heeled shoon and siller tags , and the one and forty wooers . 
I couldna sing to night ! It's Henchard he hates me so that I may not be his friend if I would . 
I would understand why there should be a wee bit of envy but I cannet see a reason for the whole intensity of what he feels . 
Now , can you , Lucetta ? It is more like old fashioned rivalry in love than just a bit of rivalry in trade . 
Lucetta had grown somewhat wan . 
I give him employment I cannet refuse it . 
The words on her lips were anything about me ? but she did not utter them . 
She could not , however , suppress her agitation , and her eyes filled with tears . 
No , no it is not so serious as ye fancy , declared Farfrae soothingly though he did not know its seriousness so well as she . 
I wish you would do what we have talked of , mournfully remarked Lucetta . 
Give up business , and go away from here . 
We have plenty of money , and why should we stay ? Farfrae seemed seriously disposed to discuss this move , and they talked thereon till a visitor was announced . 
Their neighbour Alderman Vatt came in . 
Now I have called to ask 'ee this quite privately . 
I don't speak for myself only , several have named it . 
You won't refuse ? We thought of going away , interposed Lucetta , looking at Farfrae anxiously . 
It was only a fancy , Farfrae murmured . 
I wouldna refuse if it is the wish of a respectable majority in the Council . 
Very well , then , look upon yourself as elected . 
We have had older men long enough . 
When he was gone Farfrae said musingly , See now how it's ourselves that are ruled by the Powers above us ! We plan this , but we do that . 
If they want to make me Mayor I will stay , and Henchard must rave as he will . 
From this evening onward Lucetta was very uneasy . 
If she had not been imprudence incarnate she would not have acted as she did when she met Henchard by accident a day or two later . 
It was in the bustle of the market , when no one could readily notice their discourse . 
Why , bless the woman ! I packed up every scrap of your handwriting to give you in the coach but you never appeared . 
She explained how the death of her aunt had prevented her taking the journey on that day . 
And what became of the parcel then ? she asked . 
He could not say he would consider . 
The letters might have been amongst them . 
A grotesque grin shaped itself on Henchard's face . 
Farfrae was Mayor the two hundredth odd of a series forming an elective dynasty dating back to the days of Charles I and the fair Lucetta was the courted of the town . 
The bell ringing and the band playing , loud as Tamerlane's trumpet , goaded the downfallen Henchard indescribably the ousting now seemed to him to be complete . 
The next morning he went to the corn yard as usual , and about eleven o'clock Donald entered through the green door , with no trace of the worshipful about him . 
I was going to ask you , said Henchard , about a packet that I may possibly have left in my old safe in the dining room . 
If so , it is there now , said Farfrae . 
I have never opened the safe at all as yet for I keep ma papers at the bank , to sleep easy o' nights . 
It was not of much consequence to me , said Henchard . 
But I'll call for it this evening , if you don't mind ? It was quite late when he fulfilled his promise . 
Whatever it was , the incident of his entry did not diminish its force , this being his first visit to the house since he had lived there as owner . 
The ring of the bell spoke to him like the voice of a familiar drudge who had been bribed to forsake him the movements of the doors were revivals of dead days . 
Farfrae drew thence the parcel , and other papers , with apologies for not having returned them . 
Never mind , said Henchard drily . 
The fact is they are letters mostly . 
Yes , he went on , sitting down and unfolding Lucetta's passionate bundle , here they be . 
Henchard returned to the letters , sorting them over with interest , Farfrae being seated at the other end of the dining table . 
Though , thank God , it is all over now . 
What became of the poor woman ? asked Farfrae . 
Luckily she married , and married well , said Henchard . 
So that these reproaches she poured out on me do not now cause me any twinges , as they might otherwise have done . 
Just listen to what an angry woman will say ! Farfrae , willing to humour Henchard , though quite uninterested , and bursting with yawns , gave well mannered attention . 
'For me , Henchard read , 'there is practically no future . 
Yes , said Farfrae absently , it is the way wi' women . 
Henchard unfolded another letter , and read it through likewise , stopping at the subscription as before . 
Her name I don't give , he said blandly . 
As I didn't marry her , and another man did , I can scarcely do that in fairness to her . 
Tr rue , tr rue , said Farfrae . 
But why didn't you marry her when your wife Susan died ? Farfrae asked this and the other questions in the comfortably indifferent tone of one whom the matter very remotely concerned . 
Ah well you may ask that ! said Henchard , the new moon shaped grin adumbrating itself again upon his mouth . 
In spite of all her protestations , when I came forward to do so , as in generosity bound , she was not the woman for me . 
She had already married another maybe ? Henchard seemed to think it would be sailing too near the wind to descend further into particulars , and he answered Yes . 
The young lady must have had a heart that bore transplanting very readily ! She had , she had , said Henchard emphatically . 
He opened a third and fourth letter , and read . 
This time he approached the conclusion as if the signature were indeed coming with the rest . 
But again he stopped short . 
But sitting here in cold blood he could not do it . 
Such a wrecking of hearts appalled even him . 
His quality was such that he could have annihilated them both in the heat of action but to accomplish the deed by oral poison was beyond the nerve of his enmity . 
As Donald stated , Lucetta had retired early to her room because of fatigue . 
She had , however , not gone to rest , but sat in the bedside chair reading and thinking over the events of the day . 
At the ringing of the door bell by Henchard she wondered who it should be that would call at that comparatively late hour . 
The dining room was almost under her bed room she could hear that somebody was admitted there , and presently the indistinct murmur of a person reading became audible . 
The usual time for Donald's arrival upstairs came and passed , yet still the reading and conversation went on . 
At last she left the room , and descended the stairs . 
The dining room door was ajar , and in the silence of the resting household the voice and the words were recognizable before she reached the lower flight . 
Her own words greeted her in Henchard's voice , like spirits from the grave . 
Lucetta leant upon the banister with her cheek against the smooth hand rail , as if she would make a friend of it in her misery . 
Rigid in this position , more and more words fell successively upon her ear . 
But what amazed her most was the tone of her husband . 
He spoke merely in the accents of a man who made a present of his time . 
One word , he was saying , as the crackling of paper denoted that Henchard was unfolding yet another sheet . 
Is it quite fair to this young woman's memory to read at such length to a stranger what was intended for your eye alone ? Well , yes , said Henchard . 
By not giving her name I make it an example of all womankind , and not a scandal to one . 
If I were you I would destroy them , said Farfrae , giving more thought to the letters than he had hitherto done . 
As another man's wife it would injure the woman if it were known . 
No , I shall not destroy them , murmured Henchard , putting the letters away . 
Then he arose , and Lucetta heard no more . 
She went back to her bedroom in a semi paralyzed state . 
For very fear she could not undress , but sat on the edge of the bed , waiting . 
Would Henchard let out the secret in his parting words ? Her suspense was terrible . 
The door slammed she could hear her husband bolting it . 
After looking round in his customary way he came leisurely up the stairs . 
The spark in her eyes well nigh went out when he appeared round the bedroom door . 
She could hold out no longer , and sobbed hysterically . 
When he had restored her Farfrae naturally enough spoke of Henchard . 
Of all men he was the least desirable as a visitor , he said but it is my belief that he's just a bit crazed . 
He has been reading to me a long lot of letters relating to his past life and I could do no less than indulge him by listening . 
Henchard , then , had not told . 
Henchard's last words to Farfrae , in short , as he stood on the doorstep , had been these Well I'm obliged to 'ee for listening . 
I may tell more about her some day . 
Next morning Lucetta remained in bed , meditating how to parry this incipient attack . 
She decided to employ persuasion not with Donald but with the enemy himself . 
It seemed the only practicable weapon left her as a woman . 
The very thought of it crushes me ! Have pity on a distressed woman ! If you could see me you would relent . 
You do not know how anxiety has told upon me lately . 
I will be at the Ring at the time you leave work just before the sun goes down . 
I cannot rest till I have seen you face to face , and heard from your mouth that you will carry this horse play no further . 
To heighten her natural attraction had hitherto been the unvarying endeavour of her adult life , and one in which she was no novice . 
But now she neglected this , and even proceeded to impair the natural presentation . 
She selected as much from want of spirit as design her poorest , plainest and longest discarded attire . 
To avoid the contingency of being recognized she veiled herself , and slipped out of the house quickly . 
The sun was resting on the hill like a drop of blood on an eyelid by the time she had got up the road opposite the amphitheatre , which she speedily entered . 
The interior was shadowy , and emphatic of the absence of every living thing . 
She was not disappointed in the fearful hope with which she awaited him . 
Henchard came over the top , descended and Lucetta waited breathlessly . 
But having reached the arena she saw a change in his bearing he stood still at a little distance from her she could not think why . 
Nor could any one else have known . 
When he approached her , and before she had spoken a word , her point was half gained . 
His manner as he had come down had been one of cynical carelessness but he now put away his grim half smile , and said in a kindly subdued tone , Goodnight t'ye . 
Of course I in glad to come if you want me . 
O , thank you , she said apprehensively . 
I am sorry to see 'ee looking so ill , he stammered with unconcealed compunction . 
How can you be sorry , she asked , when you deliberately cause it ? What ! said Henchard uneasily . 
Is it anything I have done that has pulled you down like that ? It is all your doing , she said . 
I have no other grief . 
My happiness would be secure enough but for your threats . 
Neither my husband nor any other man will regard me with interest long . 
His old feeling of supercilious pity for womankind in general was intensified by this suppliant appearing here as the double of the first . 
Moreover that thoughtless want of foresight which had led to all her trouble remained with poor Lucetta still she had come to meet him here in this compromising way without perceiving the risk . 
Such a woman was very small deer to hunt he felt ashamed , lost all zest and desire to humiliate Lucetta there and then , and no longer envied Farfrae his bargain . 
He had married money , but nothing more . 
Henchard was anxious to wash his hands of the game . 
Well , what do you want me to do ? he said gently . 
I am sure I shall be very willing . 
My reading of those letters was only a sort of practical joke , and I revealed nothing . 
To give me back the letters and any papers you may have that breathe of matrimony or worse . 
Every scrap shall be yours . 
But , between you and me , Lucetta , he is sure to find out something of the matter , sooner or later . 
H'm I hope so , he said . 
But you shall have the letters without fail . 
And your secret shall be kept . 
How good you are ! how shall I get them ? He reflected , and said he would send them the next morning . 
Now don't doubt me , he added . 
I can keep my word . 
Returning from her appointment Lucetta saw a man waiting by the lamp nearest to her own door . 
When she stopped to go in he came and spoke to her . 
He begged her pardon for addressing her . 
But he had heard that Mr. Farfrae had been applied to by a neighbouring corn merchant to recommend a working partner if so he wished to offer himself . 
It is a thing I know nothing about , said Lucetta coldly . 
But you can testify to my trustworthiness better than anybody , ma'am , said Jopp . 
I was in Jersey several years , and knew you there by sight . 
But I knew nothing of you . 
I think , ma'am , that a word or two from you would secure for me what I covet very much , he persisted . 
He watched her till she had vanished , and then went home . 
When he got there he sat down in the fireless chimney corner looking at the iron dogs , and the wood laid across them for heating the morning kettle . 
A movement upstairs disturbed him , and Henchard came down from his bedroom , where he seemed to have been rummaging boxes . 
I wish , said Henchard , you would do me a service , Jopp , now to night , I mean , if you can . 
Leave this at Mrs. Farfrae's for her . 
I should take it myself , of course , but I don't wish to be seen there . 
He handed a package in brown paper , sealed . 
Henchard had been as good as his word . 
Immediately on coming indoors he had searched over his few belongings , and every scrap of Lucetta's writing that he possessed was here . 
Jopp indifferently expressed his willingness . 
Well , how have ye got on to day ? his lodger asked . 
Any prospect of an opening ? I am afraid not , said Jopp , who had not told the other of his application to Farfrae . 
There never will be in Casterbridge , declared Henchard decisively . 
You must roam further afield . 
He said good night to Jopp , and returned to his own part of the house . 
Henchard's packet next met his gaze . 
His path was by the river side at the foot of the town . 
Coming into the light at the bridge which stood at the end of High Street he beheld lounging thereon Mother Cuxsom and Nance Mockridge . 
We be just going down Mixen Lane way , to look into Peter's finger afore creeping to bed , said Mrs. Cuxsom . 
There's a fiddle and tambourine going on there . 
Lord , what's all the world do ye come along too , Jopp 'twon't hinder ye five minutes . 
Though the upper part of Durnover was mainly composed of a curious congeries of barns and farm steads , there was a less picturesque side to the parish . 
This was Mixen Lane , now in great part pulled down . 
Mixen Lane was the Adullam of all the surrounding villages . 
It was the hiding place of those who were in distress , and in debt , and trouble of every kind . 
Farm labourers and other peasants , who combined a little poaching with their farming , and a little brawling and bibbing with their poaching , found themselves sooner or later in Mixen Lane . 
Rural mechanics too idle to mechanize , rural servants too rebellious to serve , drifted or were forced into Mixen Lane . 
The lane and its surrounding thicket of thatched cottages stretched out like a spit into the moist and misty lowland . 
Much that was sad , much that was low , some things that were baneful , could be seen in Mixen Lane . 
in the thatched and mud walled houses by the sallows . 
Even slaughter had not been altogether unknown here . 
In a block of cottages up an alley there might have been erected an altar to disease in years gone by . 
Such was Mixen Lane in the times when Henchard and Farfrae were Mayors . 
A brook divided the moor from the tenements , and to outward view there was no way across it no way to the houses but round about by the road . 
But under every householder's stairs there was kept a mysterious plank nine inches wide which plank was a secret bridge . 
You sold them slily the next morning , and the day after you stood before the magistrates with the eyes of all your sympathizing neighbours concentrated on your back . 
You disappeared for a time then you were again found quietly living in Mixen Lane . 
Walking along the lane at dusk the stranger was struck by two or three peculiar features therein . 
One was an intermittent rumbling from the back premises of the inn half way up this meant a skittle alley . 
Another was the extensive prevalence of whistling in the various domiciles a piped note of some kind coming from nearly every open door . 
Another was the frequency of white aprons over dingy gowns among the women around the doorways . 
Yet amid so much that was bad needy respectability also found a home . 
Under some of the roofs abode pure and virtuous souls whose presence there was due to the iron hand of necessity , and to that alone . 
The inn called Peter's finger was the church of Mixen Lane . 
It was centrally situate , as such places should be , and bore about the same social relation to the Three Mariners as the latter bore to the King's Arms . 
At first sight the inn was so respectable as to be puzzling . 
The front door was kept shut , and the step was so clean that evidently but few persons entered over its sanded surface . 
But at the corner of the public house was an alley , a mere slit , dividing it from the next building . 
Half way up the alley was a narrow door , shiny and paintless from the rub of infinite hands and shoulders . 
This was the actual entrance to the inn . 
A pedestrian would be seen abstractedly passing along Mixen Lane and then , in a moment , he would vanish , causing the gazer to blink like Ashton at the disappearance of Ravenswood . 
That abstracted pedestrian had edged into the slit by the adroit fillip of his person sideways from the slit he edged into the tavern by a similar exercise of skill . 
Waifs and strays of all sorts loitered about here . 
The landlady was a virtuous woman who years ago had been unjustly sent to gaol as an accessory to something or other after the fact . 
She underwent her twelvemonth , and had worn a martyr's countenance ever since , except at times of meeting the constable who apprehended her , when she winked her eye . 
To this house Jopp and his acquaintances had arrived . 
Dost mind how you could jerk a trout ashore with a bramble , and not ruffle the stream , Charl ? a deposed keeper was saying . 
'Twas at that I caught 'ee once , if you can mind ? That I can . 
But the worst larry for me was that pheasant business at Yalbury Wood . 
Your wife swore false that time , Joe O , by Gad , she did there's no denying it . 
How was that ? asked Jopp . 
Why Joe closed wi' me , and we rolled down together , close to his garden hedge . 
Hearing the noise , out ran his wife with the oven pyle , and it being dark under the trees she couldn't see which was uppermost . 
'Where beest thee , Joe , under or top ? she screeched . 
'O under , by Gad ! says he . 
She then began to rap down upon my skull , back , and ribs with the pyle till we'd roll over again . 
'Where beest now , dear Joe , under or top ? she'd scream again . 
It did hurt my feelings to be so wronged ! . 
Ah well 'tis over now . 
I might have had 'ee days afore that , said the keeper . 
I was within a few yards of 'ee dozens of times , with a sight more of birds than that poor one . 
Yes 'tis not our greatest doings that the world gets wind of , said the furmity woman , who , lately settled in this purlieu , sat among the rest . 
Having travelled a great deal in her time she spoke with cosmopolitan largeness of idea . 
It was she who presently asked Jopp what was the parcel he kept so snugly under his arm . 
Ah , therein lies a grand secret , said Jopp . 
It is the passion of love . 
To think that a woman should love one man so well , and hate another so unmercifully . 
Who's the object of your meditation , sir ? One that stands high in this town . 
Love letters ? then let's hear 'em , good soul , said Mother Cuxsom . 
These passages soon began to uncover the secret which Lucetta had so earnestly hoped to keep buried , though the epistles , being allusive only , did not make it altogether plain . 
Mrs. Farfrae wrote that ! said Nance Mockridge . 
'Tis a humbling thing for us , as respectable women , that one of the same sex could do it . 
And now she's avowed herself to another man ! So much the better for her , said the aged furmity woman . 
Ah , I saved her from a real bad marriage , and she's never been the one to thank me . 
I say , what a good foundation for a skimmity ride , said Nance . 
True , said Mrs. Cuxsom , reflecting . 
'Tis as good a ground for a skimmity ride as ever I knowed and it ought not to be wasted . 
The last one seen in Casterbridge must have been ten years ago , if a day . 
At this moment there was a shrill whistle , and the landlady said to the man who had been called Charl , 'Tis Jim coming in . 
Beyond the stream was the open moor , from which a clammy breeze smote upon their faces as they advanced . 
They asked him if he had had much luck . 
Not much , he said indifferently . 
All safe inside ? Receiving a reply in the affirmative he went on inwards , the others withdrawing the bridge and beginning to retreat in his rear . 
Before , however , they had entered the house a cry of Ahoy from the moor led them to pause . 
They pushed the lantern into an outhouse , and went back to the brink of the stream . 
Ahoy is this the way to Casterbridge ? said some one from the other side . 
Not in particular , said Charl . 
There's a river afore 'ee . 
I don't care here's for through it ! said the man in the moor . 
I've had travelling enough for to day . 
Stop a minute , then , said Charl , finding that the man was no enemy . 
Joe , bring the plank and lantern here's somebody that's lost his way . 
You should have kept along the turnpike road , friend , and not have strook across here . 
I should as I see now . 
But I saw a light here , and says I to myself , that's an outlying house , depend on't . 
The plank was now lowered and the stranger's form shaped itself from the darkness . 
He was a middle aged man , with hair and whiskers prematurely grey , and a broad and genial face . 
He had crossed on the plank without hesitation , and seemed to see nothing odd in the transit . 
He thanked them , and walked between them up the garden . 
What place is this ? he asked , when they reached the door . 
Ah , perhaps it will suit me to put up at . 
Now then , come in and wet your whistle at my expense for the lift over you have given me . 
They followed him into the inn , where the increased light exhibited him as one who would stand higher in an estimate by the eye than in one by the ear . 
In his hand he carried a small mahogany case , strapped , and clamped with brass . 
This was barred , and while the landlady was unfastening it the conversation about the skimmington was continued in the sitting room , and reached his ears . 
What do they mean by a 'skimmity ride' ? he asked . 
But as a respectable householder I don't encourage it . 
Still , are they going to do it shortly ? It is a good sight to see , I suppose ? Well , sir ! she simpered . 
And then , bursting into naturalness , and glancing from the corner of her eye , 'Tis the funniest thing under the sun ! And it costs money . 
Ah ! I remember hearing of some such thing . 
Now I shall be in Casterbridge for two or three weeks to come , and should not mind seeing the performance . 
He threw a sovereign on the table and returned to the landlady at the door , of whom , having inquired the way into the town , he took his leave . 
There were more where that one came from , said Charl when the sovereign had been taken up and handed to the landlady for safe keeping . 
By George ! we ought to have got a few more while we had him here . 
No , no , answered the landlady . 
This is a respectable house , thank God ! And I'll have nothing done but what's honourable . 
Well , said Jopp now we'll consider the business begun , and will soon get it in train . 
We will ! said Nance . 
A good laugh warms my heart more than a cordial , and that's the truth on't . 
Jopp gathered up the letters , and it being now somewhat late he did not attempt to call at Farfrae's with them that night . 
He reached home , sealed them up as before , and delivered the parcel at its address next morning . 
For though hers had been rather the laxity of inadvertence than of intention , that episode , if known , was not the less likely to operate fatally between herself and her husband . 
A Royal Personage was about to pass through the borough on his course further west , to inaugurate an immense engineering work out that way . 
The inhabitants therefore decided to make a thorough fete carillonee of the unwonted occasion . 
Half an hour's pause was not long , it is true but much might be done in it by a judicious grouping of incidents , above all , if the weather were fine . 
The Council had met on the Tuesday before the appointed day , to arrange the details of the procedure . 
While they were sitting , the door of the Council Chamber standing open , they heard a heavy footstep coming up the stairs . 
I hardly see that it would be proper , Mr. Henchard , said he . 
The Council are the Council , and as ye are no longer one of the body , there would be an irregularity in the proceeding . 
If ye were included , why not others ? I have a particular reason for wishing to assist at the ceremony . 
I think I have expressed the feeling of the Council , he said . 
Yes , yes , from Dr . 
Bath , Lawyer Long , Alderman Tubber , and several more . 
Then I am not to be allowed to have anything to do with it officially ? I am afraid so it is out of the question , indeed . 
But of course you can see the doings full well , such as they are to be , like the rest of the spectators . 
Henchard did not reply to that very obvious suggestion , and , turning on his heel , went away . 
It had been only a passing fancy of his , but opposition crystallized it into a determination . 
I'll welcome his Royal Highness , or nobody shall ! he went about saying . 
I am not going to be sat upon by Farfrae , or any of the rest of the paltry crew ! You shall see . 
that there was permanence in the glow . 
There was hardly a workman in the town who did not put a clean shirt on . 
Henchard had determined to do no work that day . 
He primed himself in the morning with a glass of rum , and walking down the street met Elizabeth Jane , whom he had not seen for a week . 
It was lucky , he said to her , my twenty one years had expired before this came on , or I should never have had the nerve to carry it out . 
Carry out what ? said she , alarmed . 
This welcome I am going to give our Royal visitor . 
Shall we go and see it together ? she said . 
See it ! I have other fish to fry . 
It will be worth seeing ! She could do nothing to elucidate this , and decked herself out with a heavy heart . 
As the appointed time drew near she got sight again of her stepfather . 
She thought he was going to the Three Mariners but no , he elbowed his way through the gay throng to the shop of Woolfrey , the draper . 
She waited in the crowd without . 
Henchard rolled up his flag on the doorstep , put it under his arm , and went down the street . 
Suddenly the taller members of the crowd turned their heads , and the shorter stood on tiptoe . 
It was said that the Royal cortege approached . 
People thus waited the county families in their carriages , the masses on foot and watched the far stretching London highway to the ringing of bells and chatter of tongues . 
From the background Elizabeth Jane watched the scene . 
Some seats had been arranged from which ladies could witness the spectacle , and the front seat was occupied by Lucetta , the Mayor's wife , just at present . 
In the road under her eyes stood Henchard . 
She appeared so bright and pretty that , as it seemed , he was experiencing the momentary weakness of wishing for her notice . 
But he was far from attractive to a woman's eye , ruled as that is so largely by the superficies of things . 
He was not only a journeyman , unable to appear as he formerly had appeared , but he disdained to appear as well as he might . 
Everybody else , from the Mayor to the washerwoman , shone in new vesture according to means but Henchard had doggedly retained the fretted and weather beaten garments of bygone years . 
Her manner signified quite plainly that she meant to know him in public no more . 
Every trifling emotion that her husband showed as he talked had its reflex on her face and lips , which moved in little duplicates to his . 
She was living his part rather than her own , and cared for no one's situation but Farfrae's that day . 
This spot was the centre of interest . 
There were a few clear yards in front of the Royal carriage , sanded and into this space a man stepped before any one could prevent him . 
All the ladies said with bated breath , O , look there ! and Lucetta was ready to faint . 
Farfrae , with Mayoral authority , immediately rose to the occasion . 
He seized Henchard by the shoulder , dragged him back , and told him roughly to be off . 
Henchard's eyes met his , and Farfrae observed the fierce light in them despite his excitement and irritation . 
For a moment Henchard stood his ground rigidly then by an unaccountable impulse gave way and retired . 
Farfrae glanced to the ladies' gallery , and saw that his Calphurnia's cheek was pale . 
Why it is your husband's old patron ! said Mrs. Blowbody , a lady of the neighbourhood who sat beside Lucetta . 
Patron ! said Donald's wife with quick indignation . 
Do you say the man is an acquaintance of Mr. Farfrae's ? observed Mrs. Bath , the physician's wife , a new comer to the town through her recent marriage with the doctor . 
He works for my husband , said Lucetta . 
Oh is that all ? They have been saying to me that it was through him your husband first got a footing in Casterbridge . 
What stories people will tell ! They will indeed . 
It was not so at all . 
The incident had occupied but a few moments , but it was necessarily witnessed by the Royal Personage , who , however , with practised tact affected not to have noticed anything unusual . 
He alighted , the Mayor advanced , the address was read the Illustrious Personage replied , then said a few words to Farfrae , and shook hands with Lucetta as the Mayor's wife . 
The ceremony occupied but a few minutes , and the carriages rattled heavily as Pharaoh's chariots down Corn Street and out upon the Budmouth Road , in continuation of the journey coastward . 
In the crowd stood Coney , Buzzford , and Longways Some difference between him now and when he zung at the Dree Mariners , said the first . 
'Tis wonderful how he could get a lady of her quality to go snacks wi' en in such quick time . 
Yet how folk do worship fine clothes ! Now there's a better looking woman than she that nobody notices at all , because she's akin to that hontish fellow Henchard . 
I could worship ye , Buzz , for saying that , remarked Nance Mockridge . 
I do like to see the trimming pulled off such Christmas candles . 
I am quite unequal to the part of villain myself , or I'd gi'e all my small silver to see that lady toppered . 
And perhaps I shall soon , she added significantly . 
That's not a noble passiont for a 'oman to keep up , said Longways . 
Nance did not reply , but every one knew what she meant . 
You know what's brewing down there , I suppose ? said Buzzford mysteriously to the others . 
Not the skimmity ride ? Buzzford nodded . 
I have my doubts if it will be carried out , said Longways . 
If they are getting it up they are keeping it mighty close . 
I heard they were thinking of it a fortnight ago , at all events . 
If I were sure o't I'd lay information , said Longways emphatically . 
'Tis too rough a joke , and apt to wake riots in towns . 
Hence the anxiety to keep him from annoyance showed not quite the ardour that would have animated it in former days . 
There's nothing more to see here . 
These well intentioned ones would have been surprised had they known how ripe the great jocular plot really was . 
Yes , to night , Jopp had said to the Peter's party at the corner of Mixen Lane . 
As a wind up to the Royal visit the hit will be all the more pat by reason of their great elevation to day . 
To him , at least , it was not a joke , but a retaliation . 
The proceedings had been brief too brief to Lucetta whom an intoxicating Weltlust had fairly mastered but they had brought her a great triumph nevertheless . 
He put his own hand there , as if he could hardly realize such an outrage from one whom it had once been his wont to treat with ardent generosity . 
He moved on homeward , and met Jopp in the archway to the Bull Stake . 
So you've had a snub , said Jopp . 
And what if I have ? answered Henchard sternly . 
Why , I've had one too , so we are both under the same cold shade . 
He briefly related his attempt to win Lucetta's intercession . 
Henchard merely heard his story , without taking it deeply in . 
His own relation to Farfrae and Lucetta overshadowed all kindred ones . 
He went on saying brokenly to himself , She has supplicated to me in her time and now her tongue won't own me nor her eyes see me ! . 
And he how angry he looked . 
He drove me back as if I were a bull breaking fence . 
I took it like a lamb , for I saw it could not be settled there . 
He can rub brine on a green wound ! . 
But he shall pay for it , and she shall be sorry . 
But for the green arches which still stood as they were erected Casterbridge life had resumed its ordinary shape . 
Having done this he proceeded round to the back and entered the yard . 
He had reached the granary steps and was about to ascend , when he said to himself aloud , I'm stronger than he . 
He now went up the ladders to the top floor of the corn stores . 
It was empty except of a few sacks , and at the further end was the door often mentioned , opening under the cathead and chain that hoisted the sacks . 
He fixed the door open and looked over the sill . 
He retired a few steps into the loft and waited . 
In course of time he could not say how long that green door opened and Farfrae came through . 
He was dressed as if for a journey . 
The low light of the nearing evening caught his head and face when he emerged from the shadow of the wall , warming them to a complexion of flame colour . 
Henchard watched him with his mouth firmly set the squareness of his jaw and the verticality of his profile being unduly marked . 
Farfrae came on with one hand in his pocket , and humming a tune in a way which told that the words were most in his mind . 
Nothing moved Henchard like an old melody . 
No I can't do it ! he gasped . 
Why does the infernal fool begin that now ! At length Farfrae was silent , and Henchard looked out of the loft door . 
Will ye come up here ? he said . 
Ay , man , said Farfrae . 
What's wrang ? A minute later Henchard heard his feet on the lowest ladder . 
He heard him land on the first floor , ascend and land on the second , begin the ascent to the third . 
And then his head rose through the trap behind . 
What are you doing up here at this time ? he asked , coming forward . 
Now , said Henchard quietly , we stand face to face man and man . 
Your money and your fine wife no longer lift 'ee above me as they did but now , and my poverty does not press me down . 
What does it all mean ? asked Farfrae simply . 
Wait a bit , my lad . 
You should ha' thought twice before you affronted to extremes a man who had nothing to lose . 
Ye'd no business there , he said . 
You insulted Royalty , Henchard and 'twas my duty , as the chief magistrate , to stop you . 
Royalty be damned , said Henchard . 
I am as loyal as you , come to that ! I am not here to argue . 
Wait till you cool doon , wait till you cool and you will see things the same way as I do . 
You may be the one to cool first , said Henchard grimly . 
Now this is the case . 
Here be we , in this four square loft , to finish out that little wrestle you began this morning . 
There's the door , forty foot above ground . 
One of us two puts the other out by that door the master stays inside . 
If he likes he may go down afterwards and give the alarm that the other has fallen out by accident or he may tell the truth that's his business . 
As the strongest man I've tied one arm to take no advantage of 'ee . 
It was a wrestling match , the object of each being to give his antagonist a back fall and on Henchard's part , unquestionably , that it should be through the door . 
Henchard planted the first toe forward , Farfrae crossing him with his and thus far the struggle had very much the appearance of the ordinary wrestling of those parts . 
Several minutes were passed by them in this attitude , the pair rocking and writhing like trees in a gale , both preserving an absolute silence . 
By this time their breathing could be heard . 
Hampered as he was , however , he could not keep him there , and Farfrae finding his feet again the struggle proceeded as before . 
By an extraordinary effort he succeeded at last , though not until they had got far back again from the fatal door . 
In doing so Henchard contrived to turn Farfrae a complete somersault . 
Had Henchard's other arm been free it would have been all over with Farfrae then . 
But again he regained his feet , wrenching Henchard's arm considerably , and causing him sharp pain , as could be seen from the twitching of his face . 
Now , said Henchard between his gasps , this is the end of what you began this morning . 
Your life is in my hands . 
Then take it , take it ! said Farfrae . 
Ye've wished to long enough ! Henchard looked down upon him in silence , and their eyes met . 
O Farfrae ! that's not true ! he said bitterly . 
God is my witness that no man ever loved another as I did thee at one time . 
Farfrae regarded him in silence then went to the hatch and descended through it . 
Henchard would fain have recalled him , but his tongue failed in its task , and the young man's steps died on his ear . 
Henchard took his full measure of shame and self reproach . 
So thoroughly subdued was he that he remained on the sacks in a crouching attitude , unusual for a man , and for such a man . 
Its womanliness sat tragically on the figure of so stern a piece of virility . 
He heard a conversation below , the opening of the coach house door , and the putting in of a horse , but took no notice . 
Here he stayed till the thin shades thickened to opaque obscurity , and the loft door became an oblong of gray light the only visible shape around . 
At length he arose , shook the dust from his clothes wearily , felt his way to the hatch , and gropingly descended the steps till he stood in the yard . 
He thought highly of me once , he murmured . 
But as he walked towards Farfrae's door he recalled the unheeded doings in the yard while he had lain above in a sort of stupor . 
without saying a word to any one on what had occurred between themselves . 
It would therefore be useless to call at Farfrae's house till very late . 
There was no help for it but to wait till his return , though waiting was almost torture to his restless and self accusing soul . 
Here he spent a long time , the purl of waters through the weirs meeting his ear , and the Casterbridge lights glimmering at no great distance off . 
While leaning thus upon the parapet his listless attention was awakened by sounds of an unaccustomed kind from the town quarter . 
They were a confusion of rhythmical noises , to which the streets added yet more confusion by encumbering them with echoes . 
But inexplicability did not rouse him to more than a cursory heed his sense of degradation was too strong for the admission of foreign ideas and he leant against the parapet as before . 
When Farfrae descended out of the loft breathless from his encounter with Henchard , he paused at the bottom to recover himself . 
, and driving to a village on the Budmouth Road . 
Despite the fearful struggle he decided still to persevere in his journey , so as to recover himself before going indoors and meeting the eyes of Lucetta . 
He wished to consider his course in a case so serious . 
When he was just on the point of driving off Whittle arrived with a note badly addressed , and bearing the word immediate upon the outside . 
On opening it he was surprised to see that it was unsigned . 
It contained a brief request that he would go to Weatherbury that evening about some business which he was conducting there . 
Thereupon he told Whittle of his change of direction , in words which Henchard had overheard , and set out on his way . 
Farfrae had not directed his man to take the message indoors , and Whittle had not been supposed to do so on his own responsibility . 
For poor Lucetta they took no protective measure , believing with the majority there was some truth in the scandal , which she would have to bear as she best might . 
It was about eight o'clock , and Lucetta was sitting in the drawing room alone . 
She was leaning back in the chair , in a more hopeful mood than she had enjoyed since her marriage . 
The day had been such a success , and the temporary uneasiness which Henchard's show of effrontery had wrought in her disappeared with the quiet disappearance of Henchard himself under her husband's reproof . 
The floating evidences of her absurd passion for him , and its consequences , had been destroyed , and she really seemed to have no cause for fear . 
The reverie in which these and other subjects mingled was disturbed by a hubbub in the distance , that increased moment by moment . 
It did not greatly surprise her , the afternoon having been given up to recreation by a majority of the populace since the passage of the Royal equipages . 
Which way be they going now ? inquired the first with interest . 
I can't be sure for a moment , said the second , because of the malter's chimbley . 
O yes I can see 'em . 
Well , I declare , I declare ! What , what ? from the first , more enthusiastically . 
They are coming up Corn Street after all ! They sit back to back ! What two of 'em are there two figures ? Yes . 
Two images on a donkey , back to back , their elbows tied to one another's ! She's facing the head , and he's facing the tail . 
Is it meant for anybody in particular ? Well it mid be . 
The man has got on a blue coat and kerseymere leggings he has black whiskers , and a reddish face . 
'Tis a stuffed figure , with a falseface . 
The din was increasing now then it lessened a little . 
There I shan't see , after all ! cried the disappointed first maid . 
They have gone into a back street that's all , said the one who occupied the enviable position in the attic . 
There now I have got 'em all endways nicely ! What's the woman like ? Just say , and I can tell in a moment if 'tis meant for one I've in mind . 
Elizabeth Jane advanced into the firelight . 
I have come to see you , she said breathlessly . 
I did not stop to knock forgive me ! I see you have not shut your shutters , and the window is open . 
Without waiting for Lucetta's reply she crossed quickly to the window and pulled out one of the shutters . 
Lucetta glided to her side . 
Let it be hush ! she said perempority , in a dry voice , while she seized Elizabeth Jane by the hand , and held up her finger . 
Again Elizabeth Jane attempted to close the window , but Lucetta held her by main force . 
'Tis me ! she said , with a face pale as death . 
A procession a scandal an effigy of me , and him ! The look of Elizabeth betrayed that the latter knew it already . 
Let us shut it out , coaxed Elizabeth Jane , noting that the rigid wildness of Lucetta's features was growing yet more rigid and wild with the meaning of the noise and laughter . 
Let us shut it out ! It is of no use ! she shrieked . 
O , can't something be done to stop it ? she cried . 
Is there nobody to do it not one ? She relinquished Lucetta's hands , and ran to the door . 
Lucetta herself , saying recklessly I will see it ! turned to the window , threw up the sash , and went out upon the balcony . 
Elizabeth immediately followed , and put her arm round her to pull her in . 
Lucetta's eyes were straight upon the spectacle of the uncanny revel , now dancing rapidly . 
The numerous lights round the two effigies threw them up into lurid distinctness it was impossible to mistake the pair for other than the intended victims . 
She stood motionless for one second then fell heavily to the floor . 
Almost at the instant of her fall the rude music of the skimmington ceased . 
The roars of sarcastic laughter went off in ripples , and the trampling died out like the rustle of a spent wind . 
Elizabeth was only indirectly conscious of this she had rung the bell , and was bending over Lucetta , who remained convulsed on the carpet in the paroxysms of an epileptic seizure . 
She rang again and again , in vain the probability being that the servants had all run out of the house to see more of the Daemonic Sabbath than they could see within . 
At last Farfrae's man , who had been agape on the door step , came up then the cook . 
The shutters , hastily pushed to by Elizabeth , were quite closed , a light was obtained , Lucetta carried to her room , and the man sent off for a doctor . 
While Elizabeth was undressing her she recovered consciousness but as soon as she remembered what had passed the fit returned . 
The doctor arrived with unhoped for promptitude he had been standing at his door , like others , wondering what the uproar meant . 
As soon as he saw the unhappy sufferer he said , in answer to Elizabeth's mute appeal , This is serious . 
It is a fit , Elizabeth said . 
But a fit in the present state of her health means mischief . 
You must send at once for Mr. Farfrae . 
Where is he ? He has driven into the country , sir , said the parlour maid to some place on the Budmouth Road . 
He's likely to be back soon . 
Never mind , he must be sent for , in case he should not hurry . 
The doctor returned to the bedside again . 
The man was despatched , and they soon heard him clattering out of the yard at the back . 
He came to the corner above Farfrae's , and soon guessed the nature of the proceedings for being a native of the town he had witnessed such rough jests before . 
What can we two poor lammigers do against such a multitude ! expostulated Stubberd , in answer to Mr. Grower's chiding . 
We'll see what a few words of authority can do . 
Out with 'em , and come along , for Heaven's sake ! Ah , here's Mr. Blowbody that's lucky . 
Well , what's the row ? said Blowbody . 
By this plan we shall have 'em between us . 
Get their names only no attack or interruption . 
But as Stubberd with Mr. Grower advanced into Corn Street , whence the sounds had proceeded , they were surprised that no procession could be seen . 
They passed Farfrae's , and looked to the end of the street . 
The lamp flames waved , the Walk trees soughed , a few loungers stood about with their hands in their pockets . 
Have you seen a motley crowd making a disturbance ? Grower said magisterially to one of these in a fustian jacket , who smoked a short pipe and wore straps round his knees . 
Beg yer pardon , sir ? blandly said the person addressed , who was no other than Charl , of Peter's finger . 
Mr. Grower repeated the words . 
Charl shook his head to the zero of childlike ignorance . 
No we haven't seen anything have we , Joe ? And you was here afore I. Joseph was quite as blank as the other in his reply . 
H'm that's odd , said Mr. Grower . 
Ah here's a respectable man coming that I know by sight . 
But I've not been far tonight , so perhaps Oh , 'twas here just here , said the magistrate . 
No , no , no d'ye think I'm a fool ? Constable , come this way . 
They must have gone into the back street . 
Effigies , donkey , lanterns , band , all had disappeared like the crew of Comus . 
Now , said Mr. Grower , there's only one thing more we can do . 
Get ye half a dozen helpers , and go in a body to Mixen Lane , and into Peter's finger . 
I'm much mistaken if you don't find a clue to the perpetrators there . 
The rusty jointed executors of the law mustered assistance as soon as they could , and the whole party marched off to the lane of notoriety . 
At last they entered the inn boldly , by the till then bolted front door , after a prolonged knocking of loudness commensurate with the importance of their standing . 
In the settles of the large room , guyed to the ceiling by cords as usual for stability , an ordinary group sat drinking and smoking with statuesque quiet of demeanour . 
The landlady looked mildly at the invaders , saying in honest accents , Good evening , gentlemen there's plenty of room . 
I hope there's nothing amiss ? They looked round the room . 
I've been here this last hour , hain't I , Nance ? he said to the woman who meditatively sipped her ale near him . 
Faith , that you have . 
I came in for my quiet supper time half pint , and you were here then , as well as all the rest . 
The other constable was facing the clock case , where he saw reflected in the glass a quick motion by the landlady . 
Turning sharply , he caught her closing the oven door . 
Something curious about that oven , ma'am ! he observed advancing , opening it , and drawing out a tambourine . 
Ah , she said apologetically , that's what we keep here to use when there's a little quiet dancing . 
You see damp weather spoils it , so I put it there to keep it dry . 
The constable nodded knowingly , but what he knew was nothing . 
Nohow could anything be elicited from this mute and inoffensive assembly . 
In a few minutes the investigators went out , and joining those of their auxiliaries who had been left at the door they pursued their way elsewhither . 
Long before this time Henchard , weary of his ruminations on the bridge , had repaired towards the town . 
When he stood at the bottom of the street a procession burst upon his view , in the act of turning out of an alley just above him . 
The lanterns , horns , and multitude startled him he saw the mounted images , and knew what it all meant . 
They crossed the way , entered another street , and disappeared . 
He turned back a few steps and was lost in grave reflection , finally wending his way homeward by the obscure river side path . 
Unable to rest there he went to his step daughter's lodging , and was told that Elizabeth Jane had gone to Mr. Farfrae's . 
Like one acting in obedience to a charm , and with a nameless apprehension , he followed in the same direction in the hope of meeting her , the roysterers having vanished . 
But he has gone to Mellstock and Weatherbury ! exclaimed Henchard , now unspeakably grieved . 
Not Budmouth way at all . 
But , alas ! for Henchard he had lost his good name . 
They would not believe him , taking his words but as the frothy utterances of recklessness . 
, no messenger was despatched towards Weatherbury . 
Henchard , in a state of bitter anxiety and contrition , determined to seek Farfrae himself . 
In Yalbury Bottom , or Plain , at the foot of the hill , he listened . 
Henchard thereupon retraced his steps along Yalbury Plain , the gig coming up with him as its driver slackened speed between two plantations . 
It was a point in the highway near which the road to Mellstock branched off from the homeward direction . 
By diverging to that village , as he had intended to do , Farfrae might probably delay his return by a couple of hours . 
It soon appeared that his intention was to do so still , the light swerving towards Cuckoo Lane , the by road aforesaid . 
Farfrae's off gig lamp flashed in Henchard's face . 
At the same time Farfrae discerned his late antagonist . 
Farfrae Mr. Farfrae ! cried the breathless Henchard , holding up his hand . 
Farfrae allowed the horse to turn several steps into the branch lane before he pulled up . 
He then drew rein , and said Yes ? over his shoulder , as one would towards a pronounced enemy . 
Come back to Casterbridge at once ! Henchard said . 
There's something wrong at your house requiring your return . 
I've run all the way here on purpose to tell ye . 
Farfrae was silent , and at his silence Henchard's soul sank within him . 
Henchard could almost feel this view of things in course of passage through Farfrae's mind . 
I have to go to Mellstock , said Farfrae coldly , as he loosened his reins to move on . 
But , implored Henchard , the matter is more serious than your business at Mellstock . 
It is your wife ! She is ill . 
I can tell you particulars as we go along . 
I know what you think , deprecated Henchard running after , almost bowed down with despair as he perceived the image of unscrupulous villainy that he assumed in his former friend's eyes . 
But I am not what you think ! he cried hoarsely . 
Believe me , Farfrae I have come entirely on your own and your wife's account . 
I know no more and they want you to come . 
Your man has gone the other way in a mistake . 
O Farfrae ! don't mistrust me I am a wretched man but my heart is true to you still ! Farfrae , however , did distrust him utterly . 
He knew his wife was with child , but he had left her not long ago in perfect health and Henchard's treachery was more credible than his story . 
He had in his time heard bitter ironies from Henchard's lips , and there might be ironies now . 
The gig and its driver lessened against the sky in Henchard's eyes his exertions for Farfrae's good had been in vain . 
Over this repentant sinner , at least , there was to be no joy in heaven . 
He cursed himself like a less scrupulous Job , as a vehement man will do when he loses self respect , the last mental prop under poverty . 
To this he had come after a time of emotional darkness of which the adjoining woodland shade afforded inadequate illustration . 
Presently he began to walk back again along the way by which he had arrived . 
Farfrae should at all events have no reason for delay upon the road by seeing him there when he took his journey homeward later on . 
Arriving at Casterbridge Henchard went again to Farfrae's house to make inquiries . 
But haven't you found him ? said the doctor . 
I cannot tell 'ee ! Henchard replied as he sank down on a chair within the entrance . 
He can't be home for two hours . 
H'm , said the surgeon , returning upstairs . 
How is she ? asked Henchard of Elizabeth , who formed one of the group . 
In great danger , father . 
Her anxiety to see her husband makes her fearfully restless . 
So much for man's rivalry , he thought . 
Death was to have the oyster , and Farfrae and himself the shells . 
But about Elizabeth lane in the midst of his gloom she seemed to him as a pin point of light . 
He had liked the look on her face as she answered him from the stairs . 
There had been affection in it , and above all things what he desired now was affection from anything that was good and pure . 
Jopp was just going to bed when Henchard got home . 
As the latter entered the door Jopp said , This is rather bad about Mrs. Farfrae's illness . 
Yes , said Henchard shortly , though little dreaming of Jopp s complicity in the night's harlequinade , and raising his eyes just sufficiently to observe that Jopp's face was lined with anxiety . 
Somebody has called for you , continued Jopp , when Henchard was shutting himself into his own apartment . 
A kind of traveller , or sea captain of some sort . 
Oh ? who could he be ? He seemed a well be doing man had grey hair and a broadish face but he gave no name , and no message . 
Nor do I gi'e him any attention . 
And , saying this , Henchard closed his door . 
The divergence to Mellstock delayed Farfrae's return very nearly the two hours of Henchard's estimate . 
A messenger was despatched to Budmouth , late as it had grown the night wore on , and the other doctor came in the small hours . 
Up to this time he knew nothing of the skimmington ride . 
That she informed him of the bare facts of her peculiar intimacy with the corn merchant became plain from Farfrae's own statements . 
Besides the watchman who called the hours and weather in Casterbridge that night there walked a figure up and down corn Street hardly less frequently . 
He called as much on Farfrae's account as on Lucetta's , and on Elizabeth Jane's even more than on either's . 
Shorn one by one of all other interests , his life seemed centring on the personality of the stepdaughter whose presence but recently he could not endure . 
To see her on each occasion of his inquiry at Lucetta's was a comfort to him . 
The last of his calls was made about four o'clock in the morning , in the steely light of dawn . 
Lucifer was fading into day across Durnover Moor , the sparrows were just alighting into the street , and the hens had begun to cackle from the outhouses . 
He went across , the sparrows in his way scarcely flying up from the road litter , so little did they believe in human aggression at so early a time . 
Why do you take off that ? said Henchard . 
She turned in some surprise at his presence , and did not answer for an instant or two . 
Recognizing him , she said , Because they may knock as loud as they will she will never hear it any more . 
The morning having now fully broke he lit his fire , and sat abstractedly beside it . 
He had not sat there long when a gentle footstep approached the house and entered the passage , a finger tapping lightly at the door . 
Henchard's face brightened , for he knew the motions to be Elizabeth's . 
She came into his room , looking wan and sad . 
Have you heard ? she asked . 
Mrs. Farfrae ! She is dead ! Yes , indeed about an hour ago ! I know it , said Henchard . 
I have but lately come in from there . 
It is so very good of 'ee , Elizabeth , to come and tell me . 
You must be so tired out , too , with sitting up . 
Now do you bide here with me this morning . 
You can go and rest in the other room and I will call 'ee when breakfast is ready . 
He was disturbed by another knock at the door , and rose to open it , rather deprecating a call from anybody just then . 
A stoutly built man stood on the doorstep , with an alien , unfamiliar air about his figure and bearing an air which might have been called colonial by people of cosmopolitan experience . 
It was the man who had asked the way at Peter's finger . 
Henchard nodded , and looked inquiry . 
Good morning , good morning , said the stranger with profuse heartiness . 
Is it Mr. Henchard I am talking to ? My name is Henchard . 
Then I've caught 'ee at home that's right . 
Morning's the time for business , says I. Can I have a few words with you ? By all means , Henchard answered , showing the way in . 
You may remember me ? said his visitor , seating himself . 
Henchard observed him indifferently , and shook his head . 
Well perhaps you may not . 
Henchard's face and eyes seemed to die . 
The other did not notice it . 
I know the name well , Henchard said at last , looking on the floor . 
I make no doubt of that . 
Well , the fact is , I've been looking for 'ee this fortnight past . 
I landed at Havenpool and went through Casterbridge on my way to Falmouth , and when I got there , they told me you had some years before been living at Casterbridge . 
Back came I again , and by long and by late I got here by coach , ten minutes ago . 
'He lives down by the mill , says they . 
Now that transaction between us some twenty years agone 'tis that I've called about . 
I was younger then than I am now , and perhaps the less said about it , in one sense , the better . 
Curious business ! 'Twas worse than curious . 
I cannot even allow that I'm the man you met then . 
I was not in my senses , and a man's senses are himself . 
We were young and thoughtless , said Newson . 
However , I've come to mend matters rather than open arguments . 
Poor Susan hers was a strange experience . 
She was a warm hearted , home spun woman . 
She was not what they call shrewd or sharp at all better she had been . 
As you in all likelihood know , she was simple minded enough to think that the sale was in a way binding . 
She was as guiltless o' wrong doing in that particular as a saint in the clouds . 
I know it , I know it . 
I found it out directly , said Henchard , still with averted eyes . 
There lay the sting o't to me . 
If she had seen it as what it was she would never have left me . 
Never ! But how should she be expected to know ? What advantages had she ? None . 
She could write her own name , and no more . 
Well , it was not in my heart to undeceive her when the deed was done , said the sailor of former days . 
I thought , and there was not much vanity in thinking it , that she would be happier with me . 
She was fairly happy , and I never would have undeceived her till the day of her death . 
Your child died she had another , and all went well . 
But a time came mind me , a time always does come . 
After that she was never happy with me . 
She pined and pined , and socked and sighed . 
She said she must leave me , and then came the question of our child . 
Then a man advised me how to act , and I did it , for I thought it was best . 
I left her at Falmouth , and went off to sea . 
When I got to the other side of the Atlantic there was a storm , and it was supposed that a lot of us , including myself , had been washed overboard . 
I got ashore at Newfoundland , and then I asked myself what I should do . 
I've never returned to this country till a month ago , and I found that , as I supposed , she went to you , and my daughter with her . 
They told me in Falmouth that Susan was dead . 
But my Elizabeth Jane where is she ? Dead likewise , said Henchard doggedly . 
Surely you learnt that too ? The sailor started up , and took an enervated pace or two down the room . 
Dead ! he said , in a low voice . 
Then what's the use of my money to me ? Henchard , without answering , shook his head as if that were rather a question for Newson himself than for him . 
Where is she buried ? the traveller inquired . 
Beside her mother , said Henchard , in the same stolid tones . 
When did she die ? A year ago and more , replied the other without hesitation . 
Henchard never looked up from the floor . 
At last Newson said My journey hither has been for nothing ! I may as well go as I came ! It has served me right . 
I'll trouble you no longer . 
Newson's shadow passed the window . 
Then Henchard , scarcely believing the evidence of his senses , rose from his seat amazed at what he had done . 
It had been the impulse of a moment . 
He had expected questions to close in round him , and unmask his fabrication in five minutes yet such questioning had not come . 
Newson's back was soon visible up the road , crossing Bull stake . 
Henchard followed , and saw his visitor stop at the King's Arms , where the morning coach which had brought him waited half an hour for another coach which crossed there . 
The coach Newson had come by was now about to move again . 
Newson mounted , his luggage was put in , and in a few minutes the vehicle disappeared with him . 
He had not so much as turned his head . 
It was an act of simple faith in Henchard's words faith so simple as to be almost sublime . 
Was Elizabeth Jane to remain his by virtue of this hardy invention of a moment ? Perhaps not for long , said he . 
Newson might converse with his fellow travellers , some of whom might be Casterbridge people and the trick would be discovered . 
Towards the young woman herself his affection grew more jealously strong with each new hazard to which his claim to her was exposed . 
He watched the distant highway expecting to see Newson return on foot , enlightened and indignant , to claim his child . 
Possibly he had spoken to nobody on the coach , but buried his grief in his own heart . 
And thus his jealous soul speciously argued to excuse the separation of father and child . 
He returned to the house half expecting that she would have vanished . 
No there she was just coming out from the inner room , the marks of sleep upon her eyelids , and exhibiting a generally refreshed air . 
O father ! she said smiling . 
I had no sooner lain down than I napped , though I did not mean to . 
I wonder I did not dream about poor Mrs. Farfrae , after thinking of her so but I did not . 
How strange it is that we do not often dream of latest events , absorbing as they may be . 
I am glad you have been able to sleep , he said , taking her hand with anxious proprietorship an act which gave her a pleasant surprise . 
They sat down to breakfast , and Elizabeth Jane's thoughts reverted to Lucetta . 
Their sadness added charm to a countenance whose beauty had ever lain in its meditative soberness . 
I do it every day , he replied . 
You have left me everybody has left me how should I live but by my own hands . 
You are very lonely , are you not ? Ay , child to a degree that you know nothing of ! It is my own fault . 
You are the only one who has been near me for weeks . 
And you will come no more . 
Why do you say that ? Indeed I will , if you would like to see me . 
Though he had so lately hoped that Elizabeth Jane might again live in his house as daughter , he would not ask her to do so now . 
Newson might return at any moment , and what Elizabeth would think of him for his deception it were best to bear apart from her . 
When they had breakfasted his stepdaughter still lingered , till the moment arrived at which Henchard was accustomed to go to his daily work . 
Then she arose , and with assurance of coming again soon went up the hill in the morning sunlight . 
His mood was no longer that of the rebellious , ironical , reckless misadventurer but the leaden gloom of one who has lost all that can make life interesting , or even tolerable . 
There would remain nobody for him to be proud of , nobody to fortify him for Elizabeth Jane would soon be but as a stranger , and worse . 
Susan , Farfrae , Lucetta , Elizabeth all had gone from him , one after one , either by his fault or by his misfortune . 
In place of them he had no interest , hobby , or desire . 
If he could have summoned music to his aid his existence might even now have been borne for with Henchard music was of regal power . 
The merest trumpet or organ tone was enough to move him , and high harmonies transubstantiated him . 
But hard fate had ordained that he should be unable to call up this Divine spirit in his need . 
The whole land ahead of him was as darkness itself there was nothing to come , nothing to wait for . 
Yet in the natural course of life he might possibly have to linger on earth another thirty or forty years scoffed at at best pitied . 
The thought of it was unendurable . 
To the east of Casterbridge lay moors and meadows through which much water flowed . 
The spot at which their instrumentation rose loudest was a place called Ten Hatches , whence during high springs there proceeded a very fugue of sounds . 
The river here was deep and strong at all times , and the hatches on this account were raised and lowered by cogs and a winch . 
to these Hatches , crossing the stream at their head by a narrow plank bridge . 
But after night fall human beings were seldom found going that way , the path leading only to a deep reach of the stream called Blackwater , and the passage being dangerous . 
In a second or two he stood beside the weir hole where the water was at its deepest . 
He looked backwards and forwards , and no creature appeared in view . 
He then took off his coat and hat , and stood on the brink of the stream with his hands clasped in front of him . 
Not a man somewhat resembling him , but one in all respects his counterpart , his actual double , was floating as if dead in Ten Hatches Hole . 
The sense of the supernatural was strong in this unhappy man , and he turned away as one might have done in the actual presence of an appalling miracle . 
He covered his eyes and bowed his head . 
Without looking again into the stream he took his coat and hat , and went slowly away . 
Presently he found himself by the door of his own dwelling . 
To his surprise Elizabeth Jane was standing there . 
She came forward , spoke , called him father just as before . 
Newson , then , had not even yet returned . 
I thought you seemed very sad this morning , she said , so I have come again to see you . 
Not that I am anything but sad myself . 
But everybody and everything seem against you so , and I know you must be suffering . 
How this woman divined things ! Yet she had not divined their whole extremity . 
He said to her , Are miracles still worked , do ye think , Elizabeth ? I am not a read man . 
I don't know so much as I could wish . 
I have tried to peruse and learn all my life but the more I try to know the more ignorant I seem . 
I don't quite think there are any miracles nowadays , she said . 
No interference in the case of desperate intentions , for instance ? Well , perhaps not , in a direct way . 
But will you come and walk with me , and I will show 'ee what I mean . 
She agreed willingly , and he took her over the highway , and by the lonely path to Ten Hatches . 
He walked restlessly , as if some haunting shade , unseen of her , hovered round him and troubled his glance . 
She would gladly have talked of Lucetta , but feared to disturb him . 
When they got near the weir he stood still , and asked her to go forward and look into the pool , and tell him what she saw . 
She went , and soon returned to him . 
Go again , said Henchard , and look narrowly . 
She proceeded to the river brink a second time . 
On her return , after some delay , she told him that she saw something floating round and round there but what it was she could not discern . 
It seemed to be a bundle of old clothes . 
Are they like mine ? asked Henchard . 
Dear me I wonder if Father , let us go away ! Go and look once more and then we will get home . 
She went back , and he could see her stoop till her head was close to the margin of the pool . 
She started up , and hastened back to his side . 
Well , said Henchard what do you say now ? Let us go home . 
But tell me do what is it floating there ? The effigy , she answered hastily . 
Ah to be sure the image o' me ! But where is the other ? Why that one only ? . 
Father ! I will not leave you alone like this ! she cried . 
May I live with you , and tend upon you as I used to do ? I do not mind your being poor . 
I would have agreed to come this morning , but you did not ask me . 
May you come to me ? he cried bitterly . 
Elizabeth , don't mock me ! If you only would come ! I will , said she . 
How will you forgive all my roughness in former days ? You cannot ! I have forgotten it . 
Talk of that no more . 
Thus she assured him , and arranged their plans for reunion and at length each went home . 
Then Henchard shaved for the first time during many days , and put on clean linen , and combed his hair and was as a man resuscitated thence forward . 
But as little as possible was said of the matter , and the figures were privately destroyed . 
Despite this natural solution of the mystery Henchard no less regarded it as an intervention that the figure should have been floating there . 
Elizabeth Jane heard him say , Who is such a reprobate as I ! And yet it seems that even I be in Somebody's hand ! . 
But the emotional conviction that he was in Somebody's hand began to die out of Henchard's breast as time slowly removed into distance the event which had given that feeling birth . 
The apparition of Newson haunted him . 
Yet Newson did not arrive . 
Lucetta had been borne along the churchyard path Casterbridge had for the last time turned its regard upon her , before proceeding to its work as if she had never lived . 
But Elizabeth remained undisturbed in the belief of her relationship to Henchard , and now shared his home . 
Perhaps , after all , Newson was gone for ever . 
He resolved to wait till the funeral was over ere he moved in the matter . 
The time having come he reflected . 
Disastrous as the result had been , it was obviously in no way foreseen or intended by the thoughtless crew who arranged the motley procession . 
Other considerations were also involved . 
To regard the event as an untoward accident seemed , to Farfrae , truest consideration for the dead one's memory , as well as best philosophy . 
Henchard and himself mutually forbore to meet . 
Had he been only personally concerned Henchard , without doubt , would have declined assistance even remotely brought about by the man whom he had so fiercely assailed . 
But the sympathy of the girl seemed necessary to his very existence and on her account pride itself wore the garments of humility . 
Here they settled themselves and on each day of their lives Henchard anticipated her every wish with a watchfulness in which paternal regard was heightened by a burning jealous dread of rivalry . 
Yet that Newson would ever now return to Casterbridge to claim her as a daughter there was little reason to suppose . 
Furthermore he pleaded within himself that no Newson could love her as he loved her , or would tend her to his life's extremity as he was prepared to do cheerfully . 
Thus they lived on in the shop overlooking the churchyard , and nothing occurred to mark their days during the remainder of the year . 
Yet he was pursuing his ordinary avocations , smiling mechanically to fellow tradesmen , and arguing with bargainers as bereaved men do after a while . 
Time , in his own grey style , taught Farfrae how to estimate his experience of Lucetta all that it was , and all that it was not . 
But Farfrae was not of those . 
It was inevitable that the insight , briskness , and rapidity of his nature should take him out of the dead blank which his loss threw about him . 
He could not but perceive that by the death of Lucetta he had exchanged a looming misery for a simple sorrow . 
The quiet bearing of one who brimmed with an inner activity characterized Elizabeth Jane at this period . 
She took long walks into the country two or three times a week , mostly in the direction of Budmouth . 
She had her own way in everything now . 
In going and coming , in buying and selling , her word was law . 
You have got a new muff , Elizabeth , he said to her one day quite humbly . 
Yes I bought it , she said . 
He looked at it again as it lay on an adjoining table . 
The fur was of a glossy brown , and , though he was no judge of such articles , he thought it seemed an unusually good one for her to possess . 
Rather costly , I suppose , my dear , was it not ? he hazarded . 
It was rather above my figure , she said quietly . 
But it is not showy . 
O no , said the netted lion , anxious not to pique her in the least . 
Some little time after , when the year had advanced into another spring , he paused opposite her empty bedroom in passing it . 
The present room was much humbler , but what struck him about it was the abundance of books lying everywhere . 
Their number and quality made the meagre furniture that supported them seem absurdly disproportionate . 
For the first time he felt a little hurt by what he thought her extravagance , and resolved to say a word to her about it . 
But , before he had found the courage to speak an event happened which set his thoughts flying in quite another direction . 
Henchard went away , thinking that perhaps there was nothing significant after all in Farfrae's look at Elizabeth Jane at that juncture . 
Yet he could not forget that the Scotchman had once shown a tender interest in her , of a fleeting kind . 
Thereupon promptly came to the surface that idiosyncrasy of Henchard's which had ruled his courses from the beginning and had mainly made him what he was . 
Time had been when such instinctive opposition would have taken shape in action . 
But he was not now the Henchard of former days . 
He schooled himself to accept her will , in this as in other matters , as absolute and unquestionable . 
It was only that I saw him in the street when we both were there . 
She did not enlighten him , and lest silence should allow her to shape thoughts unfavourable to their present friendly relations , he diverted the discourse into another channel . 
Henchard was , by original make , the last man to act stealthily , for good or for evil . 
And now , uneasy at the thought of a passion for Farfrae which should entirely displace her mild filial sympathy with himself , he observed her going and coming more narrowly . 
Henchard became aware of this by going to the Ring , and , screened by its enclosure , keeping his eye upon the road till he saw them meet . 
His face assumed an expression of extreme anguish . 
Of her , too , he means to rob me ! he whispered . 
But he has the right . 
I do not wish to interfere . 
The meeting , in truth , was of a very innocent kind , and matters were by no means so far advanced between the young people as Henchard's jealous grief inferred . 
Could he have heard such conversation as passed he would have been enlightened thus much HE . 
I have chosen this road latterly . 
I have no great reason for it . 
But that may make a reason for others . 
My reason , however , such as it is , is that I wish to get a glimpse of the sea every day . 
Is it a secret why ? SHE . 
Ah , I doubt there will be any good in secrets ! A secret cast a deep shadow over my life . 
And well you know what it was . 
Elizabeth admitted that she did , but she refrained from confessing why the sea attracted her . 
She could not herself account for it fully , not knowing the secret possibly to be that , in addition to early marine associations , her blood was a sailor's . 
Thank you for those new books , Mr. Farfrae , she added shyly . 
They proceeded along the road together till they reached the town , and their paths diverged . 
Henchard vowed that he would leave them to their own devices , put nothing in the way of their courses , whatever they might mean . 
If he were doomed to be bereft of her , so it must be . 
In the situation which their marriage would create he could see no locus standi for himself at all . 
Farfrae would never recognize him more than superciliously his poverty ensured that , no less than his past conduct . 
And so Elizabeth would grow to be a stranger to him , and the end of his life would be friendless solitude . 
With such a possibility impending he could not help watchfulness . 
Indeed , within certain lines , he had the right to keep an eye upon her as his charge . 
The meetings seemed to become matters of course with them on special days of the week . 
At last full proof was given him . 
He was standing behind a wall close to the place at which Farfrae encountered her . 
He heard the young man address her as Dearest Elizabeth Jane , and then kiss her , the girl looking quickly round to assure herself that nobody was near . 
When they were gone their way Henchard came out from the wall , and mournfully followed them to Casterbridge . 
The chief looming trouble in this engagement had not decreased . 
Thus would the girl , who was his only friend , be withdrawn from him by degrees through her husband's influence , and learn to despise him . 
But content with the prospect as now depicted was hard to acquire . 
One of these thoughts sailed into Henchard's ken now . 
What Henchard saw thus early was , naturally enough , seen at a little later date by other people . 
No , ma'am , no wonder at all . 
'Tis she that's a stooping to he that's my opinion . 
Thus they talked at the Mariners . 
When all has been said about busy rumourers , a superficial and temporary thing is the interest of anybody in affairs which do not directly touch them . 
Not a hint of the matter was thrown out to her stepfather by Elizabeth herself or by Farfrae either . 
His health declined he became morbidly sensitive . 
He wished he could escape those who did not want him , and hide his head for ever . 
The privilege of being in the house she occupied would almost outweigh the personal humiliation . 
Whether this were a dim possibility or the reverse , the courtship which it evidently now was had an absorbing interest for him . 
Elizabeth , as has been said , often took her walks on the Budmouth Road , and Farfrae as often made it convenient to create an accidental meeting with her there . 
One day Henchard was at this spot when a masculine figure came along the road from Budmouth , and lingered . 
Applying his telescope to his eye Henchard expected that Farfrae's features would be disclosed as usual . 
But the lenses revealed that today the man was not Elizabeth Jane's lover . 
It was one clothed as a merchant captain , and as he turned in the scrutiny of the road he revealed his face . 
Henchard lived a lifetime the moment he saw it . 
Henchard dropped the glass , and for some seconds made no other movement . 
Newson waited , and Henchard waited if that could be called a waiting which was a transfixture . 
But Elizabeth Jane did not come . 
Something or other had caused her to neglect her customary walk that day . 
Perhaps Farfrae and she had chosen another road for variety's sake . 
Then he would tell her not only of his paternity , but of the ruse by which he had been once sent away . 
But Newson did not see anything of her that morning . 
Having stood still awhile he at last retraced his steps , and Henchard felt like a condemned man who has a few hours' respite . 
When he reached his own house he found her there . 
O father ! she said innocently . 
I have had a letter a strange one not signed . 
Somebody has asked me to meet him , either on the Budmouth Road at noon today , or in the evening at Mr. Farfrae's . 
He says he came to see me some time ago , but a trick was played him , so that he did not see me . 
But I did not like to go till I had seen you . 
Shall I go ? Henchard replied heavily , Yes go . 
The question of his remaining in Casterbridge was for ever disposed of by this closing in of Newson on the scene . 
Henchard was not the man to stand the certainty of condemnation on a matter so near his heart . 
And being an old hand at bearing anguish in silence , and haughty withal , he resolved to make as light as he could of his intentions , while immediately taking his measures . 
She looked down and her tears fell silently . 
It seemed to her that this resolve of his had come on account of her attachment and its probable result . 
She showed her devotion to Farfrae , however , by mastering her emotion and speaking out . 
I am sorry you have decided on this , she said with difficult firmness . 
If I did not approve it would be no matter ! I wish to go away . 
My presence might make things awkward in the future , and , in short , it is best that I go . 
It was his conviction that she would not so refrain and there existed as yet neither word nor event which could argue it away . 
Then , she said at last , you will not be able to come to my wedding and that is not as it ought to be . 
It is because of Donald ! she sobbed . 
I don't forbid you to marry him , said Henchard . 
Promise not to quite forget me when He meant when Newson should come . 
She promised mechanically , in her agitation and the same evening at dusk Henchard left the town , to whose development he had been one of the chief stimulants for many years . 
He went secretly and alone , not a soul of the many who had known him being aware of his departure . 
He went on till he came to the first milestone , which stood in the bank , half way up a steep hill . 
If I had only got her with me if I only had ! he said . 
Hard work would be nothing to me then ! But that was not to be . 
I Cain go alone as I deserve an outcast and a vagabond . 
But my punishment is not greater than I can bear ! He sternly subdued his anguish , shouldered his basket , and went on . 
Elizabeth , in the meantime , had breathed him a sigh , recovered her equanimity , and turned her face to Casterbridge . 
Before she had reached the first house she was met in her walk by Donald Farfrae . 
He is gone and I told him all I knew of your friend . 
Donald , who is he ? Well , well , dearie you will know soon about that . 
And Mr. Henchard will hear of it if he does not go far . 
At Farfrae's house they stopped and went in . 
Farfrae flung open the door of the ground floor sitting room , saying , There he is waiting for you , and Elizabeth entered . 
The meeting with the light hearted father from whom she had been separated half a dozen years , as if by death , need hardly be detailed . 
It was an affecting one , apart from the question of paternity . 
Henchard's departure was in a moment explained . 
Newson's pride in what she had grown up to be was more than he could express . 
He kissed her again and again . 
I've saved you the trouble to come and meet me ha ha ! said Newson . 
The fact is that Mr. Farfrae here , he said , 'Come up and stop with me for a day or two , Captain Newson , and I'll bring her round . 
'Faith , says I , 'so I will' and here I am . 
Well , Henchard is gone , said Farfrae , shutting the door . 
He has done it all voluntarily , and , as I gather from Elizabeth , he has been very nice with her . 
I was got rather uneasy but all is as it should be , and we will have no more deefficulties at all . 
Now , that's very much as I thought , said Newson , looking into the face of each by turns . 
Donald and you must settle it , murmured Elizabeth , still keeping up a scrutinizing gaze at some small object in the street . 
Well , then , continued Newson , turning anew to Farfrae with a face expressing thorough entry into the subject , that's how we'll have it . 
Do you leave all to me . 
Ah , I thought I hadn't . 
I resolved that I would not , I remember , not to hurt the man's name . 
But now he's gone I can tell ye . 
Why , I came to Casterbridge nine or ten months before that day last week that I found ye out . 
I had been here twice before then . 
The first time I passed through the town on my way westward , not knowing Elizabeth lived here . 
Then hearing at some place I forget where that a man of the name of Henchard had been mayor here , I came back , and called at his house one morning . 
The old rascal ! he said Elizabeth Jane had died years ago . 
Elizabeth now gave earnest heed to his story . 
Now , it never crossed my mind that the man was selling me a packet , contiued Newson . 
Ha ha ! 'twas a good joke , and well carried out , and I give the man credit for't ! Elizabeth Jane was amazed at the intelligence . 
A joke ? O no ! she cried . 
Then he kept you from me , father , all those months , when you might have been here ? The father admitted that such was the case . 
He ought not to have done it ! said Farfrae . 
I said I would never forget him . 
Indeed , the attack upon the absent culprit waxing serious , he began to take Henchard's part . 
Well , 'twas not ten words that he said , after all , Newson pleaded . 
He knew your disposition you always were so trusting , father I've heard my mother say so hundreds of times and he did it to wrong you . 
After weaning me from you these five years by saying he was my father , he should not have done this . 
Thus they conversed and there was nobody to set before Elizabeth any extenuation of the absent one's deceit . 
Even had he been present Henchard might scarce have pleaded it , so little did he value himself or his good name . 
Well , well never mind it is all over and past , said Newson good naturedly . 
Now , about this wedding again . 
Meanwhile , the man of their talk had pursued his solitary way eastward till weariness overtook him , and he looked about for a place of rest . 
The very heaviness of his soul caused him to sleep profoundly . 
The bright autumn sun shining into his eyes across the stubble awoke him the next morning early . 
He opened his basket and ate for his breakfast what he had packed for his supper and in doing so overhauled the remainder of his kit . 
Having looked at these things he closed them up again , and went onward . 
It now became apparent that the direction of his journey was Weydon Priors , which he reached on the afternoon of the sixth day . 
The renowned hill whereon the annual fair had been held for so many generations was now bare of human beings , and almost of aught besides . 
A few sheep grazed thereabout , but these ran off when Henchard halted upon the summit . 
Yes , we came up that way , he said , after ascertaining his bearings . 
She was carrying the baby , and I was reading a ballet sheet . 
Then we crossed about here she so sad and weary , and I speaking to her hardly at all , because of my cursed pride and mortification at being poor . 
Then we saw the tent that must have stood more this way . 
He walked to another spot , it was not really where the tent had stood but it seemed so to him . 
Here we went in , and here we sat down . 
Then I drank , and committed my crime . 
Now I'm no more to 'ee I'll try my luck elsewhere . 
He had been sorry for all this long ago but his attempts to replace ambition by love had been as fully foiled as his ambition itself . 
His wronged wife had foiled them by a fraud so grandly simple as to be almost a virtue . 
It was an odd sequence that out of all this tampering with social law came that flower of Nature , Elizabeth . 
Part of his wish to wash his hands of life arose from his perception of its contrarious inconsistencies of Nature's jaunty readiness to support unorthodox social principles . 
He intended to go on from this place visited as an act of penance into another part of the country altogether . 
But he could not help thinking of Elizabeth , and the quarter of the horizon in which she lived . 
Out of this it happened that the centrifugal tendency imparted by weariness of the world was counteracted by the centripetal influence of his love for his stepdaughter . 
And thus Henchard found himself again on the precise standing which he had occupied a quarter of a century before . 
He had no wish to make an arena a second time of a world that had become a mere painted scene to him . 
Henchard ran to the gate of the field he worked in , and hailed the speaker , who was a stranger . 
Yes I've come from there , maister , he said , in answer to Henchard's inquiry . 
I trade up and down , ye know though , what with this travelling without horses that's getting so common , my work will soon be done . 
Anything moving in the old place , mid I ask ? All the same as usual . 
I've heard that Mr. Farfrae , the late mayor , is thinking of getting married . 
Now is that true or not ? I couldn't say for the life o' me . 
O no , I should think not . 
But yes , John you forget , said a woman inside the waggon tilt . 
Henchard was convinced that the woman's memory served her well . 
The date was an extremely probable one , there being no reason for delay on either side . 
He might , for that matter , write and inquire of Elizabeth but his instinct for sequestration had made the course difficult . 
Yet before he left her she had said that for him to be absent from her wedding was not as she wished it to be . 
But how to initiate this reversal of all his former resolves without causing husband and wife to despise him for his inconsistency was a question which made him tremble and brood . 
He cut and cut his trusses two days more , and then he concluded his hesitancies by a sudden reckless determination to go to the wedding festivity . 
Neither writing nor message would be expected of him . 
She had regretted his decision to be absent his unanticipated presence would fill the little unsatisfied corner that would probably have place in her just heart without him . 
He started on foot , two mornings before St . 
Martin's tide , allowing himself about sixteen miles to perform for each of the three days' journey , reckoning the wedding day as one . 
At length a caged goldfinch met his eye . 
The cage was a plain and small one , the shop humble , and on inquiry he concluded he could afford the modest sum asked . 
A sheet of newspaper was tied round the little creature's wire prison , and with the wrapped up cage in his hand Henchard sought a lodging for the night . 
Next day he set out upon the last stage , and was soon within the district which had been his dealing ground in bygone years . 
The time was just after twelve o'clock . 
Those notes were a signal that all had gone well that there had been no slip 'twixt cup and lip in this case that Elizabeth Jane and Donald Farfrae were man and wife . 
Henchard did not care to ride any further with his chattering companions after hearing this sound . 
It was the hill near which he had waited to meet Farfrae , almost two years earlier , to tell him of the serious illness of his wife Lucetta . 
The place was unchanged the same larches sighed the same notes but Farfrae had another wife and , as Henchard knew , a better one . 
He only hoped that Elizabeth Jane had obtained a better home than had been hers at the former time . 
Henchard dusted his boots , washed his hands at the riverside , and proceeded up the town under the feeble lamps . 
Idlers were standing on the pavement in front and wishing to escape the notice of these Henchard passed quickly on to the door . 
It was wide open , the hall was lighted extravagantly , and people were going up and down the stairs . 
On second thought she said that he had better not wait in the kitchen , but come up into the little back parlour , which was empty . 
He thereupon followed her thither , and she left him . 
However , young people could not be quite old people , he concluded , and custom was omnipotent . 
Presently Farfrae came round , his exuberant Scotch movement making him conspicuous in a moment . 
By degrees Henchard became aware that the measure was trod by some one who out Farfraed Farfrae in saltatory intenseness . 
This was strange , and it was stranger to find that the eclipsing personage was Elizabeth Jane's partner . 
The next time he came round in the other direction , his white waist coat preceding his face , and his toes preceding his white waistcoat . 
That happy face Henchard's complete discomfiture lay in it . 
It was Newson's , who had indeed come and supplanted him . 
Henchard pushed to the door , and for some seconds made no other movement . 
He rose to his feet , and stood like a dark ruin , obscured by the shade from his own soul up thrown . 
But he was no longer the man to stand these reverses unmoved . 
Oh it is Mr. Henchard ! she said , starting back . 
What , Elizabeth ? he cried , as she seized her hand . 
Then you know all but don't give all your thought to him ! Do ye save a little room for me ! She flushed up , and gently drew her hand away . 
I could have loved you always I would have , gladly , she said . 
O how can I love as I once did a man who has served us like this ! Henchard's lips half parted to begin an explanation . 
But he shut them up like a vice , and uttered not a sound . 
Waiving , therefore , his privilege of self defence , he regarded only his discomposure . 
Don't ye distress yourself on my account , he said , with proud superiority . 
I would not wish it at such a time , too , as this . 
I have done wrong in coming to 'ee I see my error . 
But it is only for once , so forgive it . 
I'll never trouble 'ee again , Elizabeth Jane no , not to my dying day ! Good night . 
It was about a month after the day which closed as in the last chapter . 
, and was stared at and honoured as became the returned Crusoe of the hour . 
On the fourth morning he was discovered disconsolately climbing a hill , in his craving to get a glimpse of the sea from somewhere or other . 
Nobody could tell her how the bird and cage had come there , though that the poor little songster had been starved to death was evident . 
The sadness of the incident had made an impression on her . 
She had not been able to forget it for days , despite Farfrae's tender banter and now when the matter had been nearly forgotten it was again revived . 
Oh , please ma'am , we know how the bird cage came there . 
She went out , looked at the cage , buried the starved little singer , and from that hour her heart softened towards the self alienated man . 
But it was by no means easy to set about discovering Henchard . 
He had apparently sunk into the earth on leaving Mr. and Mrs. Farfrae's door . 
Elizabeth Jane remembered what he had once attempted and trembled . 
They searched Egdon , but found no Henchard . 
She pondered the position , and agreed with him . 
He accordingly drew rein , but before reversing their direction paused a moment and looked vaguely round upon the wide country which the elevated position disclosed . 
While they looked a solitary human form came from under the clump of trees , and crossed ahead of them . 
The person was some labourer his gait was shambling , his regard fixed in front of him as absolutely as if he wore blinkers and in his hand he carried a few sticks . 
Having crossed the road he descended into a ravine , where a cottage revealed itself , which he entered . 
If it were not so far away from Casterbridge I should say that must be poor Whittle . 
'Tis just like him , observed Elizabeth Jane . 
The possibility led them to alight , and at least make an inquiry at the cottage . 
Farfrae hitched the reins to the gate post , and they approached what was of humble dwellings surely the humblest . 
The rafters were sunken , and the thatch of the roof in ragged holes . 
Leaves from the fence had been blown into the corners of the doorway , and lay there undisturbed . 
The door was ajar Farfrae knocked and he who stood before them was Whittle , as they had conjectured . 
His face showed marks of deep sadness , his eyes lighting on them with an unfocused gaze and he still held in his hand the few sticks he had been out to gather . 
As soon as he recognized them he started . 
What , Abel Whittle is it that ye are heere ? said Farfrae . 
Ay , yes sir ! You see he was kind like to mother when she wer here below , though 'a was rough to me . 
Not dead ? faltered Elizabeth Jane . 
I seed en go down street on the night of your worshipful's wedding to the lady at yer side , and I thought he looked low and faltering . 
Then he walked on , and I followed and he never complained at me no more . 
But he didn't gain strength , for you see , ma'am , he couldn't eat no appetite at all and he got weaker and to day he died . 
One of the neighbours have gone to get a man to measure him . 
Dear me is that so ! said Farfrae . 
As for Elizabeth , she said nothing . 
Upon the head of his bed he pinned a piece of paper , with some writing upon it , continued Abel Whittle . 
But not being a man o' letters , I can't read writing so I don't know what it is . 
I can get it and show ye . 
They stood in silence while he ran into the cottage returning in a moment with a crumpled scrap of paper . 
On it there was pencilled as follows MICHAEL HENCHARD'S WILL That Elizabeth Jane Farfrae be not told of my death , or made to grieve on account of me . 
that I be not bury'd in consecrated ground . 
that no sexton be asked to toll the bell . 
that nobody is wished to see my dead body . 
that no murners walk behind me at my funeral . 
that no flours be planted on my grave , that no man remember me . 
To this I put my name . 
MICHAEL HENCHARD What are we to do ? said Donald , when he had handed the paper to her . 
She could not answer distinctly . 
But there's no altering so it must be . 
Her position was , indeed , to a marked degree one that , in the common phrase , afforded much to be thankful for . 
That she was not demonstratively thankful was no fault of hers . 
