Mudfog and Other Sketches by Charles Dickens . 
Scanned and proofed by David Price email ccx coventry . 
uk MUDFOG AND OTHER SKETCHES Contents I. PUBLIC LIFE OF MR . 
TULRUMBLE ONCE MAYOR OF MUDFOG II . 
FULL REPORT OF THE FIRST MEETING OF THE MUDFOG ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF EVERYTHING III . 
FULL REPORT OF THE SECOND MEETING OF THE MUDFOG ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF EVERYTHING IV . 
THE PANTOMIME OF LIFE V. SOME PARTICULARS CONCERNING A LION VI . 
ROBERT BOLTON THE 'GENTLEMAN CONNECTED WITH THE PRESS' VII . 
FAMILIAR EPISTLE FROM A PARENT TO A CHILD VIII . 
AGED TWO YEARS AND TWO MONTHS PUBLIC LIFE OF MR . 
There is a good deal of water about Mudfog , and yet it is not exactly the sort of town for a watering place , either . 
Water is a perverse sort of element at the best of times , and in Mudfog it is particularly so . 
Mudfog is a healthy place very healthy damp , perhaps , but none the worse for that . 
So , admitting Mudfog to be damp , we distinctly state that it is salubrious . 
The town of Mudfog is extremely picturesque . 
Limehouse and Ratcliff Highway are both something like it , but they give you a very faint idea of Mudfog . 
There are a great many more public houses in Mudfog more than in Ratcliff Highway and Limehouse put together . 
The public buildings , too , are very imposing . 
The idea of placing a large window on one side of the door , and a small one on the other , is particularly happy . 
There is a fine old Doric beauty , too , about the padlock and scraper , which is strictly in keeping with the general effect . 
In this room do the mayor and corporation of Mudfog assemble together in solemn council for the public weal . 
Nicholas Tulrumble was always the same . 
Time , which strews a man's head with silver , sometimes fills his pockets with gold . 
As he gradually performed one good office for Nicholas Tulrumble , he was obliging enough , not to omit the other . 
Somehow or other , just about this time , despite the health preserving air of Mudfog , the Mayor died . 
It was a most extraordinary circumstance he had lived in Mudfog for eighty five years . 
Strange as it was , however , die he did , without taking the slightest notice of the corporation and the corporation were imperatively called upon to elect his successor . 
The more he thought of the Lord Mayor , the more enviable a personage he seemed . 
A crimson flush mantled over his face as he read it , for visions of brightness were already dancing before his imagination . 
'My dear , said Mr. Tulrumble to his wife , 'they have elected me , Mayor of Mudfog . 
The communication was very unexpected but Mrs. Tulrumble only ejaculated 'Lor a mussy ! once again , as if a Mayor were a mere ordinary Christian , at which Mr. Tulrumble frowned gloomily . 
'What a pity 'tan't in London , ain't it ? said Mrs. Tulrumble , after a short pause 'what a pity 'tan't in London , where you might have had a show . 
'I MIGHT have a show in Mudfog , if I thought proper , I apprehend , said Mr. Tulrumble mysteriously . 
'Lor ! so you might , I declare , replied Mrs. Tulrumble . 
'And a good one too , said Mr. Tulrumble . 
'Delightful ! exclaimed Mrs. Tulrumble . 
'One which would rather astonish the ignorant people down there , said Mr. Tulrumble . 
'It would kill them with envy , said Mrs. Tulrumble . 
But even this was not all . 
He had a general licence , and he showed his sense of the compliment by making the most of it . 
'Well , Twigger ! said Nicholas Tulrumble , condescendingly . 
'I want you to go into training , Twigger , said Mr. Tulrumble . 
'What for , sir ? inquired Ned , with a stare . 
'Hush , hush , Twigger ! said the Mayor . 
'Shut the door , Mr. Jennings . 
As the Mayor said this , he unlocked a high closet , and disclosed a complete suit of brass armour , of gigantic dimensions . 
'I want you to wear this next Monday , Twigger , said the Mayor . 
'Bless your heart and soul , sir ! replied Ned , 'you might as well ask me to wear a seventy four pounder , or a cast iron boiler . 
'Nonsense , Twigger , nonsense ! said the Mayor . 
'I couldn't stand under it , sir , said Twigger 'it would make mashed potatoes of me , if I attempted it . 
'Pooh , pooh , Twigger ! returned the Mayor . 
'I tell you I have seen it done with my own eyes , in London , and the man wasn't half such a man as you are , either . 
'It's the easiest thing in the world , rejoined the Mayor . 
'It's nothing , said Mr. Jennings . 
'When you're used to it , added Ned . 
'You do it by degrees , said the Mayor . 
'You would begin with one piece to morrow , and two the next day , and so on , till you had got it all on . 
Mr. Jennings , give Twigger a glass of rum . 
Just try the breast plate , Twigger . 
Stay take another glass of rum first . 
Help me to lift it , Mr. Jennings . 
'Now , wear that with grace and propriety on Monday next , said Tulrumble , 'and I'll make your fortune . 
'I'll try what I can do , sir , said Twigger . 
'It must be kept a profound secret , said Tulrumble . 
'Of course , sir , replied Twigger . 
'And you must be sober , said Tulrumble 'perfectly sober . 
However , that's neither here nor there . 
Never was man so delighted as Nicholas Tulrumble never was woman so charmed as Nicholas Tulrumble's wife . 
Here was a sight for the common people of Mudfog ! A live man in brass armour ! Why , they would go wild with wonder ! The day THE Monday arrived . 
If the morning had been made to order , it couldn't have been better adapted to the purpose . 
They never showed a better fog in London on Lord Mayor's day , than enwrapped the town of Mudfog on that eventful occasion . 
The thick damp mist hung over the town like a huge gauze curtain . 
All was dim and dismal . 
The church steeples had bidden a temporary adieu to the world below and every object of lesser importance houses , barns , hedges , trees , and barges had all taken the veil . 
The church clock struck one . 
This was one of the Circus people , who always came down to Mudfog at that time of the year , and who had been engaged by Nicholas Tulrumble expressly for the occasion . 
But a Mudfog crowd never was a reasonable one , and in all probability never will be . 
So , the herald was a decided failure , and the crowd hooted with great energy , as he pranced ingloriously away . 
'They won't laugh now , Mr. Jennings , said Nicholas Tulrumble . 
'I think not , sir , said Mr. Jennings . 
'See how eager they look , said Nicholas Tulrumble . 
The companionable footman was very facetious to Ned , and Ned was very gallant to the cook and housemaid by turns . 
They were all very cosy and comfortable and the something strong went briskly round . 
The crowd roared it was not with wonder , it was not with surprise it was most decidedly and unquestionably with laughter . 
'What ! said Mr. Tulrumble , starting up in the four wheel chaise . 
'Laughing ? If they laugh at a man in real brass armour , they'd laugh when their own fathers were dying . 
Why doesn't he go into his place , Mr. Jennings ? What's he rolling down towards us for ? he has no business here ! 'I am afraid , sir faltered Mr. Jennings . 
'Afraid of what , sir ? said Nicholas Tulrumble , looking up into the secretary's face . 
'I am afraid he's drunk , sir , replied Mr. Jennings . 
Nicholas Tulrumble took one look at the extraordinary figure that was bearing down upon them and then , clasping his secretary by the arm , uttered an audible groan in anguish of spirit . 
'Twigger , you villain ! said Nicholas Tulrumble , quite forgetting his dignity , 'go back . 
I'm the wretched father of an unfortunate family but I am very faithful , sir . 
'Here ! will anybody lead him away ? said Nicholas 'if they'll call on me afterwards , I'll reward them well . 
Two or three men stepped forward , with the view of bearing Ned off , when the secretary interposed . 
'Take care ! take care ! said Mr. Jennings . 
'I beg your pardon , sir but they'd better not go too near him , because , if he falls over , he'll certainly crush somebody . 
At this hint the crowd retired on all sides to a very respectful distance , and left Ned , like the Duke of Devonshire , in a little circle of his own . 
'But , Mr. Jennings , said Nicholas Tulrumble , 'he'll be suffocated . 
'I'm very sorry for it , sir , replied Mr. Jennings 'but nobody can get that armour off , without his own assistance . 
I'm quite certain of it from the way he put it on . 
Gentlemen , I'm an unhappy wretch . 
I'm a body , gentlemen , in a brass coffin . 
When she had said all this with due vehemence , she posted after Ned , who was dragging himself along as best he could , and deploring his unhappiness in most dismal tones . 
After which , the procession got back to Mudfog Hall any how it could and Nicholas and the corporation sat down to dinner . 
But the dinner was flat , and Nicholas was disappointed . 
They were such dull sleepy old fellows , that corporation . 
There was only one man in the party who was thoroughly awake and he was insolent , and called him Nick . 
But these were not the worst of Nicholas Tulrumble's doings . 
If they had been , he might have remained a Mayor to this day , and have talked till he lost his voice . 
He contracted a relish for statistics , and got philosophical and the statistics and the philosophy together , led him into an act which increased his unpopularity and hastened his downfall . 
So he read up for the subject , and determined to come out on the corporation with a burst , the very next time the licence was applied for . 
He descanted in glowing terms upon the increasing depravity of his native town of Mudfog , and the excesses committed by its population . 
yielded three thousand seven hundred and eighty people with beer jugs per day , or twenty six thousand four hundred and sixty people with beer jugs , per week . 
Then he proceeded to show that a tambourine and moral degradation were synonymous terms , and a fiddle and vicious propensities wholly inseparable . 
But although Nicholas triumphed , his triumph was short . 
He grew tired of the lonely magnificence of Mudfog Hall , and his heart yearned towards the Lighterman's Arms . 
He wished he had never set up as a public man , and sighed for the good old times of the coal shop , and the chimney corner . 
At length old Nicholas , being thoroughly miserable , took heart of grace , paid the secretary a quarter's wages in advance , and packed him off to London by the next coach . 
Having taken this step , he put his hat on his head , and his pride in his pocket , and walked down to the old room at the Lighterman's Arms . 
There were only two of the old fellows there , and they looked coldly on Nicholas as he proffered his hand . 
'Are you going to put down pipes , Mr. Tulrumble ? said one . 
'Or trace the progress of crime to 'bacca ? growled another . 
'Neither , replied Nicholas Tulrumble , shaking hands with them both , whether they would or not . 
'I've come down to say that I'm very sorry for having made a fool of myself , and that I hope you'll give me up the old chair , again . 
As to old Nicholas , he kept his word , and having had six weeks of public life , never tried it any more . 
He went to sleep in the town hall at the very next meeting and , in full proof of his sincerity , has requested us to write this faithful narrative . 
This is the first time we have published any of our gleanings from this particular source . 
Perhaps , at some future period , we may venture to open the chronicles of Mudfog . 
We give our correspondent's letters in the order in which they reached us . 
Any attempt at amalgamating them into one beautiful whole , would only destroy that glowing tone , that dash of wildness , and rich vein of picturesque interest , which pervade them throughout . 
'MUDFOG , MONDAY NIGHT , SEVEN O'CLOCK . 
'We are in a state of great excitement here . 
Nothing is spoken of , but the approaching meeting of the association . 
It is confidently rumoured that Professors Snore , Doze , and Wheezy have engaged three beds and a sitting room at the Pig and Tinder box . 
I give you the rumour as it has reached me but I cannot , as yet , vouch for its accuracy . 
The moment I have been enabled to obtain any certain information upon this interesting point , you may depend upon receiving it . 
I have just returned from a personal interview with the landlord of the Pig and Tinder box . 
Amidst such conflicting testimony it is difficult to arrive at the real truth but you may depend upon receiving authentic information upon this point the moment the fact is ascertained . 
A boy fell through the window of the pastrycook's shop at the corner of the High street about half an hour ago , which has occasioned much confusion . 
The general impression is , that it was an accident . 
Pray heaven it may prove so ! 'TUESDAY , NOON . 
'At an early hour this morning the bells of all the churches struck seven o'clock the effect of which , in the present lively state of the town , was extremely singular . 
You may conceive the anxiety with which we are all looking forward to the arrival of the four o'clock coach this afternoon . 
'Notwithstanding the excited state of the populace , no outrage has yet been committed , owing to the admirable discipline and discretion of the police , who are nowhere to be seen . 
A barrel organ is playing opposite my window , and groups of people , offering fish and vegetables for sale , parade the streets . 
With these exceptions everything is quiet , and I trust will continue so . 
This intelligence is EXCLUSIVE and I leave you and your readers to draw their own inferences from it . 
Why Professor Wheezy , of all people in the world , should repair to the Original Pig in preference to the Pig and Tinder box , it is not easy to conceive . 
The professor is a man who should be above all such petty feelings . 
Slug , so celebrated for his statistical researches , arrived this afternoon by the four o'clock stage . 
His complexion is a dark purple , and he has a habit of sighing constantly . 
He looked extremely well , and appeared in high health and spirits . 
Mr. Woodensconce also came down in the same conveyance . 
The distinguished gentleman was fast asleep on his arrival , and I am informed by the guard that he had been so the whole way . 
I fear , unless some very extraordinary arrivals take place to night , that consequences may arise from this popular ferment , which every man of sense and feeling would deplore . 
'I have just heard that the boy who fell through the pastrycook's window last night has died of the fright . 
He was suddenly called upon to pay three and sixpence for the damage done , and his constitution , it seems , was not strong enough to bear up against the shock . 
The inquest , it is said , will be held to morrow . 
'Professors Muff and Nogo have just driven up to the hotel door they at once ordered dinner with great condescension . 
We are all very much delighted with the urbanity of their manners , and the ease with which they adapt themselves to the forms and ceremonies of ordinary life . 
It is conjectured that some experiments will be tried upon the dog to night if any particulars should transpire , I will forward them by express . 
'The animal has been procured . 
He is a pug dog , of rather intelligent appearance , in good condition , and with very short legs . 
He has been tied to a curtain peg in a dark room , and is howling dreadfully . 
'The dog has just been rung for . 
'The dog's tail and ears have been sent down stairs to be washed from which circumstance we infer that the animal is no more . 
His forelegs have been delivered to the boots to be brushed , which strengthens the supposition . 
I am not yet in a condition to inform you what circumstance induced the bereaved lady to direct her steps to the hotel which had witnessed the last struggles of her PROTEGE . 
I can only state that she arrived there , at the very instant when his detached members were passing through the passage on a small tray . 
The unfortunate lady remains at the Pig and Tinder box , and up to this time is reported in a very precarious state . 
The report appears to have had its origin in his mysterious disappearance . 
This fortunate discovery has in some degree restored our gaiety and cheerfulness . 
It is proposed to get up a subscription for him without delay . 
'Everybody is nervously anxious to see what to morrow will bring forth . 
If any one should arrive in the course of the night , I have left strict directions to be called immediately . 
I should have sat up , indeed , but the agitating events of this day have been too much for me . 
'No news yet of either of the Professors Snore , Doze , or Wheezy . 
It is very strange ! 'WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON . 
'All is now over and , upon one point at least , I am at length enabled to set the minds of your readers at rest . 
Upon this head , rumour is silent I have my speculations , but forbear to give utterance to them just now . 
'The town is filling fast eighteenpence has been offered for a bed and refused . 
The incarceration of this gentleman is greatly to be regretted , as his absence will preclude any discussion on the subject . 
'The bills are being taken down in all directions , and lodgings are being secured on almost any terms . 
I have heard of fifteen shillings a week for two rooms , exclusive of coals and attendance , but I can scarcely believe it . 
The vigour and promptness of these measures cannot be too highly extolled . 
'Intelligence has just been brought me , that an elderly female , in a state of inebriety , has declared in the open street her intention to do for Mr. Slug . 
Some statistical returns compiled by that gentleman , relative to the consumption of raw spirituous liquors in this place , are supposed to be the cause of the wretch's animosity . 
'The disturbance , I am happy to inform you , has been completely quelled , and the ringleader taken into custody . 
She had a pail of cold water thrown over her , previous to being locked up , and expresses great contrition and uneasiness . 
I shall send you a full report of to morrow's proceedings by the night coach . 
'I open my letter to say that nothing whatever has occurred since I folded it up . 
'The sun rose this morning at the usual hour . 
to shine with more than common brilliancy , and to shed a refulgent lustre upon the town , such as I had never observed before . 
This is the more extraordinary , as the sky was perfectly cloudless , and the atmosphere peculiarly fine . 
At half past nine o'clock the general committee assembled , with the last year's president in the chair . 
on no fewer than seven thousand two hundred and forty three topics , was received with a degree of enthusiasm which no efforts could suppress . 
The various committees and sections having been appointed , and the more formal business transacted , the great proceedings of the meeting commenced at eleven o'clock precisely . 
I had the happiness of occupying a most eligible position at that time , in 'SECTION A. ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY . 
GREAT ROOM , PIG AND TINDER BOX . 
VICE PRESIDENTS Professors Doze and Wheezy . 
'The scene at this moment was particularly striking . 
The contrast between their fair faces and the dark coats and trousers of the scientific gentlemen I shall never cease to remember while Memory holds her seat . 
This appeared to him , the only difficulty . 
'THE AUTHOR submitted that this difficulty was easily overcome , or rather that there was no difficulty at all in the case . 
'The President and several members of the section highly complimented the author of the paper last read , on his most ingenious and important treatise . 
It was determined that the subject should be recommended to the immediate consideration of the council . 
WIGSBY produced a cauliflower somewhat larger than a chaise umbrella , which had been raised by no other artificial means than the simple application of highly carbonated soda water as manure . 
'A Member wished to know how many thousand additional lamps the royal property would be illuminated with , on the night after the descent . 
'The Member expressed himself much gratified with this announcement . 
A melancholy instance of a presentiment entertained by the animal of his approaching dissolution , was recorded . 
From these gestures it was understood that he wished the attendant to keep the cards , which he had ever since done . 
He had not expressed any wish relative to his watch , which had accordingly been pawned by the same individual . 
'After some hesitation a Member replied that the pig faced lady was his mother in law , and that he trusted the President would not violate the sanctity of private life . 
He had considered the pig faced lady a public character . 
'SECTION B. ANATOMY AND MEDICINE . 
COACH HOUSE , PIG AND TINDER BOX . 
VICE PRESIDENTS Professors Muff and Nogo . 
He had been called in to visit the patient on the st of April , . 
He was then labouring under symptoms peculiarly alarming to any medical man . 
His frame was stout and muscular , his step firm and elastic , his cheeks plump and red , his voice loud , his appetite good , his pulse full and round . 
He laughed constantly , and in so hearty a manner that it was terrible to hear him . 
By dint of powerful medicine , low diet , and bleeding , the symptoms in the course of three days perceptibly decreased . 
In the course of a month he was sufficiently recovered to be carried down stairs by two nurses , and to enjoy an airing in a close carriage , supported by soft pillows . 
At the present moment he was restored so far as to walk about , with the slight assistance of a crutch and a boy . 
It would perhaps be gratifying to the section to learn that he ate little , drank little , slept little , and was never heard to laugh by any accident whatever . 
W. R. FEE , in complimenting the honourable member upon the triumphant cure he had effected , begged to ask whether the patient still bled freely ? 'DR . 
KUTANKUMAGEN replied in the affirmative . 
And you found that he bled freely during the whole course of the disorder ? 'DR . 
Oh dear , yes most freely . 
NEESHAWTS supposed , that if the patient had not submitted to be bled with great readiness and perseverance , so extraordinary a cure could never , in fact , have been accomplished . 
Kutankumagen rejoined , certainly not . 
exhibited a wax preparation of the interior of a gentleman who in early life had inadvertently swallowed a door key . 
With this key the medical student entered the house of the deceased gentleman , and committed a burglary to a large amount , for which he was subsequently tried and executed . 
'THE PRESIDENT wished to know what became of the original key after the lapse of years . 
Mr. Knight Bell replied that the gentleman was always much accustomed to punch , and it was supposed the acid had gradually devoured it . 
NEESHAWTS and several of the members were of opinion that the key must have lain very cold and heavy upon the gentleman's stomach . 
KNIGHT BELL believed it did at first . 
Thus , the fortieth part of a grain of calomel was supposed to be equal to a five grain calomel pill , and so on in proportion throughout the whole range of medicine . 
This man was a hard drinker . 
had dispersed three drops of rum through a bucket of water , and requested the man to drink the whole . 
What was the result ? Before he had drunk a quart , he was in a state of beastly intoxication and five other men were made dead drunk with the remainder . 
The President remarked that this was a most important discovery , and he hoped the Lord Mayor and Court of Aldermen would patronize it immediately . 
'PROFESSOR NOGO called the attention of the section to a very extraordinary case of animal magnetism . 
A private watchman , being merely looked at by the operator from the opposite side of a wide street , was at once observed to be in a very drowsy and languid state . 
HAY LOFT , ORIGINAL PIG . 
VICE PRESIDENTS Mr. Ledbrain and Mr. Timbered . 
SLUG stated to the section the result of some calculations he had made with great difficulty and labour , regarding the state of infant education among the middle classes of London . 
The ignorance that prevailed , was lamentable . 
One child , on being asked whether he would rather be Saint George of England or a respectable tallow chandler , instantly replied , Taint George of Ingling . 
They had not the slightest conception of the commonest principles of mathematics , and considered Sindbad the Sailor the most enterprising voyager that the world had ever produced . 
'THE PRESIDENT complimented the honourable member on the excellent distinction he had drawn . 
SLUG then stated some curious calculations respecting the dogs' meat barrows of London . 
He found that the total number of small carts and barrows engaged in dispensing provision to the cats and dogs of the metropolis was , one thousand seven hundred and forty three . 
The average number of skewers delivered daily with the provender , by each dogs' meat cart or barrow , was thirty six . 
Now , multiplying the number of skewers so delivered by the number of barrows , a total of sixty two thousand seven hundred and forty eight skewers daily would be obtained . 
were either destitute of any rest for their legs at all , or passed the whole of their leisure time in sitting upon boxes . 
COACH HOUSE , ORIGINAL PIG . 
VICE PRESIDENTS Mr. Truck and Mr. Waghorn . 
'PROFESSOR QUEERSPECK exhibited an elegant model of a portable railway , neatly mounted in a green case , for the waistcoat pocket . 
'THE PRESIDENT was desirous of knowing whether it was necessary to have a level surface on which the gentleman was to run . 
'PROFESSOR QUEERSPECK explained that City gentlemen would run in trains , being handcuffed together to prevent confusion or unpleasantness . 
JOBBA produced a forcing machine on a novel plan , for bringing joint stock railway shares prematurely to a premium . 
Mr. Jobba stated that the machine had been in constant requisition for some months past , and he had never once known it to fail . 
'A Member expressed his opinion that it was extremely neat and pretty . 
could be preserved if they merely balanced themselves for a few minutes on the sill of their bedroom window , and got into the escape without falling into the street . 
The Professor stated that the number of boys who had been rescued in the daytime by this machine from houses which were not on fire , was almost incredible . 
'THE PRESIDENT inquired whether there was not some difficulty in ascertaining which was the top of the machine , and which the bottom , in cases of pressing emergency . 
It is needless to take a review of the subjects which have been discussed of the mode in which they have been examined of the great truths which they have elicited . 
They are now before the world , and we leave them to read , to consider , and to profit . 
We hope at this next meeting our correspondent may again be present , and that we may be once more the means of placing his communications before the world . 
We give this gentleman's correspondence entire , and in the order in which it reached our office . 
'SALOON OF STEAMER , THURSDAY NIGHT , HALF PAST EIGHT . 
'When I left New Burlington Street this evening in the hackney cabriolet , number four thousand two hundred and eighty five , I experienced sensations as novel as they were oppressive . 
I should infer from all I hear that he has got the steam up . 
Professor Woodensconce has taken the shelf above me , and Mr. Slug and Professor Grime the two shelves opposite . 
Their luggage has already arrived . 
On Mr. Slug's bed is a long tin tube of about three inches in diameter , carefully closed at both ends . 
What can this contain ? Some powerful instrument of a new construction , doubtless . 
I learn from this man that the different sections will be distributed at the Black Boy and Stomach ache , and the Boot jack and Countenance . 
, your readers will draw such conclusions as their different opinions may suggest . 
'I write down these remarks as they occur to me , or as the facts come to my knowledge , in order that my first impressions may lose nothing of their original vividness . 
I shall despatch them in small packets as opportunities arise . 
'Some dark object has just appeared upon the wharf . 
I think it is a travelling carriage . 
The passengers are pouring in every instant . 
Four omnibuses full have just arrived upon the wharf , and all is bustle and activity . 
The noise and confusion are very great . 
Cloths are laid in the cabins , and the steward is placing blue plates full of knobs of cheese at equal distances down the centre of the tables . 
He is a young man of exceedingly prepossessing appearance either dirty or a mulatto , but I think the former . 
I trust and hope that he may reach it in safety but the board he has to cross is narrow and slippery . 
Was that a splash ? Gracious powers ! 'I have just returned from the deck . 
The trunk is standing upon the extreme brink of the wharf , but the old gentleman is nowhere to be seen . 
The watchman is not sure whether he went down or not , but promises to drag for him the first thing to morrow morning . 
May his humane efforts prove successful ! 'Professor Nogo has this moment arrived with his nightcap on under his hat . 
He has ordered a glass of cold brandy and water , with a hard biscuit and a basin , and has gone straight to bed . 
Mr. Slug , who sleeps in the other top one , is unable to get out of his , and is to have his supper handed up by a boy . 
'As I anticipated , the knobs of cheese were provided for the passengers' supper , and are now in course of consumption . 
Your readers will be surprised to hear that Professor Woodensconce has abstained from cheese for eight years , although he takes butter in considerable quantities . 
Professor Grime having lost several teeth , is unable , I observe , to eat his crusts without previously soaking them in his bottled porter . 
How interesting are these peculiarities ! 'HALF PAST ELEVEN . 
'Professors Woodensconce and Grime , with a degree of good humour that delights us all , have just arranged to toss for a bottle of mulled port . 
There has been some discussion whether the payment should be decided by the first toss or the best out of three . 
Eventually the latter course has been determined on . 
I have backed that gentleman to the amount of eighteenpence . 
'Professor Grime has inadvertently tossed his half crown out of one of the cabin windows , and it has been arranged that the steward shall toss for him . 
Bets are offered on any side to any amount , but there are no takers . 
'Professor Woodensconce has just called woman but the coin having lodged in a beam , is a long time coming down again . 
The interest and suspense of this one moment are beyond anything that can be imagined . 
'The mulled port is smoking on the table before me , and Professor Grime has won . 
There is an exultation about Professor Grime incompatible , I fear , with true greatness . 
'I am writing in bed . 
The scene is indescribably solemn . 
With these exceptions , all is profound silence . 
'My curiosity has been within the last moment very much excited . 
What rare mechanical combination can be contained in that mysterious case ? It is evidently a profound secret to all . 
'The behaviour of Mr. Slug grows more and more mysterious . 
He has unscrewed the top of the tube , and now renews his observations upon his companions , evidently to make sure that he is wholly unobserved . 
He is clearly on the eve of some great experiment . 
Pray heaven that it be not a dangerous one but the interests of science must be promoted , and I am prepared for the worst . 
'He has produced a large pair of scissors , and drawn a roll of some substance , not unlike parchment in appearance , from the tin case . 
The experiment is about to begin . 
I must strain my eyes to the utmost , in the attempt to follow its minutest operation . 
Mr. Slug has cut it up into small portions , and is now sticking it over himself in every direction . 
I am assured that the scene which ensued baffles all description . 
There were one hundred and forty seven ladies in their respective berths at the time . 
He intends stating this very beautiful , though simple discovery , to the association . 
learnedly remarks , another great point of ingenuity about a steamer is , that it always carries a little storm with it . 
You can scarcely conceive how exciting the jerking pulsation of the ship becomes . 
It is a matter of positive difficulty to get to sleep . 
'FRIDAY AFTERNOON , SIX O'CLOCK . 
'I regret to inform you that Mr. Slug's plaster has proved of no avail . 
He is in great agony , but has applied several large , additional pieces notwithstanding . 
I fear the gravy soup for lunch was injudicious . 
We lost a great many passengers almost immediately afterwards . 
'I am again in bed . 
Anything so heart rending as Mr. Slug's sufferings it has never yet been my lot to witness . 
Such is the triumph of mind over matter . 
'Professor Grime is in bed , to all appearance quite well but he WILL eat , and it is disagreeable to see him . 
'You will be happy to learn that I have at length arrived here in safety . 
The town is excessively crowded , and all the private lodgings and hotels are filled with SAVANS of both sexes . 
The tremendous assemblage of intellect that one encounters in every street is in the last degree overwhelming . 
Nothing can exceed the fresh appearance of the saw dust with which the floors are sprinkled . 
The forms are of unplaned deal , and the general effect , as you can well imagine , is extremely beautiful . 
'The number and rapidity of the arrivals are quite bewildering . 
, Mr. Brown , Sir Hookham Snivey , and Professor Pumpkinskull . 
The ten last named gentlemen were wet through , and looked extremely intelligent . 
'SUNDAY , TWO O'CLOCK , P. M. 'The Honourable and Reverend Mr. Long Eers , accompanied by Sir William Joltered , walked and drove this morning . 
They accomplished the former feat in boots , and the latter in a hired fly . 
This has naturally given rise to much discussion . 
I forbear to communicate any of the rumours to which this very extraordinary proceeding has given rise until I have seen Sowster , and endeavoured to ascertain the truth from him . 
It is an uneven piece of paving , but has certainly no appearance which would lead one to suppose that any such event had recently occurred there . 
'Sowster is a fat man , with a more enlarged development of that peculiar conformation of countenance which is vulgarly termed a double chin than I remember to have ever seen before . 
I have yet to learn that a beadle can be called out by any civilian to exercise a domination and despotism over the boys of Britain . 
Picture which cannot be reproduced The under beadle has consented to write his life , but it is to be strictly anonymous . 
'The accompanying likeness is of course from the life , and complete in every respect . 
Even if I had been totally ignorant of the man's real character , and it had been placed before me without remark , I should have shuddered involuntarily . 
There is an intense malignity of expression in the features , and a baleful ferocity of purpose in the ruffian's eye , which appals and sickens . 
His whole air is rampant with cruelty , nor is the stomach less characteristic of his demoniac propensities . 
'The great day has at length arrived . 
I have neither eyes , nor ears , nor pens , nor ink , nor paper , for anything but the wonderful proceedings that have astounded my senses . 
Let me collect my energies and proceed to the account . 
'SECTION A. ZOOLOGY AND BOTANY . 
FRONT PARLOUR , BLACK BOY AND STOMACH ACHE . 
VICE PRESIDENTS Mr. Muddlebranes and Mr. Drawley . 
X. X. MISTY communicated some remarks on the disappearance of dancing bears from the streets of London , with observations on the exhibition of monkeys as connected with barrel organs . 
He regretted to add that a similar , and no less lamentable , change had taken place with reference to monkeys . 
being as one monkey to three organs . 
'PROFESSOR MULL doubted very much whether any correct ideas of natural history were propagated by the means to which the honourable member had so ably adverted . 
On the contrary , he believed that they had been the means of diffusing very incorrect and imperfect notions on the subject . 
'PROFESSOR PUMPKINSKULL wished to take that opportunity of calling the attention of the section to a most important and serious point . 
It was dreadful to reflect that our youth were so rapidly verging into a generation of bears . 
'After a scene of scientific enthusiasm it was resolved that this important question should be immediately submitted to the consideration of the council . 
He was given to understand that since that period they had supported themselves by lying in wait for and robbing blind men's poodles . 
'THE PRESIDENT wished to know what botanical definition the honourable gentleman could afford of the curiosity . 
FLUMMERY expressed his opinion that it was A DECIDED PLANT . 
'SECTION B. DISPLAY OF MODELS AND MECHANICAL SCIENCE . 
LARGE ROOM , BOOT JACK AND COUNTENANCE . 
The inventor remarked that it had been put into active operation in Fleet Street , the Strand , and other thoroughfares , and had never been once known to fail . 
Would the inventor be good enough to inform the section whether he had taken any and what means for bringing it into general operation ? 'MR . 
'THE PRESIDENT hoped that no such fanciful objections would be allowed to stand in the way of such a great public improvement . 
CRINKLES hoped so too but he feared that if the gentlemen of the swell mob persevered in their objection , nothing could be done . 
'PROFESSOR GRIME suggested , that surely , in that case , Her Majesty's Government might be prevailed upon to take it up . 
CRINKLES said , that if the objection were found to be insuperable he should apply to Parliament , which he thought could not fail to recognise the utility of the invention . 
His only fear was that the machine might be worn out by constant working . 
In short , every facility of enjoyment would be afforded that the most gentlemanly person could possibly desire . 
The charge for these amusements would amount to very little more than they already cost , and the inventor submitted that the public would be much benefited and comforted by the proposed arrangement . 
'PROFESSOR NOGO wished to be informed what amount of automaton police force it was proposed to raise in the first instance . 
COPPERNOSE replied , that it was proposed to begin with seven divisions of police of a score each , lettered from A to G inclusive . 
'THE PRESIDENT , awarding the utmost merit to the ingenious gentleman who had originated the idea , doubted whether the automaton police would quite answer the purpose . 
He feared that noblemen and gentlemen would perhaps require the excitement of thrashing living subjects . 
The great advantage would be , that a policeman's limbs might be all knocked off , and yet he would be in a condition to do duty next day . 
He might even give his evidence next morning with his head in his hand , and give it equally well . 
Will you allow me to ask you , sir , of what materials it is intended that the magistrates' heads shall be composed ? 'MR . 
The magistrates will have wooden heads of course , and they will be made of the toughest and thickest materials that can possibly be obtained . 
This is a great invention . 
I see but one objection to it . 
It appears to me that the magistrates ought to talk . 
On his return , 'MR . 
It was , he said , a most valuable and useful invention , based strictly upon the principle of the human eye . 
'THE PRESIDENT required some information upon this point . 
He had yet to learn that the human eye was remarkable for the peculiarities of which the honourable gentleman had spoken . 
He must know , too , with what quickness of perception most people could discover their neighbour's faults , and how very blind they were to their own . 
If the President differed from the great majority of men in this respect , his eye was a defective one , and it was to assist his vision that these glasses were made . 
BLANK exhibited a model of a fashionable annual , composed of copper plates , gold leaf , and silk boards , and worked entirely by milk and water . 
PROSEE , after examining the machine , declared it to be so ingeniously composed , that he was wholly unable to discover how it went on at all . 
Nobody can , and that is the beauty of it . 
'SECTION C. ANATOMY AND MEDICINE . 
BAR ROOM , BLACK BOY AND STOMACH ACHE . 
GRUMMIDGE stated to the section a most interesting case of monomania , and described the course of treatment he had pursued with perfect success . 
Finding her wish ungratified , she fell sick , and the symptoms soon became so alarming , that he was called in . 
The next day she was somewhat low , but decidedly better , and all appearances of irritation were removed . 
The next day she improved still further , and on the next again . 
From that moment she began to mend , and , in less than four and twenty hours was perfectly restored . 
She did not now betray the least emotion at the sight or mention of pearls or any other ornaments . 
She was cheerful and good humoured , and a most beneficial change had been effected in her whole temperament and condition . 
read a short but most interesting communication in which he sought to prove the complete belief of Sir William Courtenay , otherwise Thorn , recently shot at Canterbury , in the Homoeopathic system . 
, placed upon his tongue , after death , would restore him . 
As it was , if this woman , or any other person , had administered an infinitesimal dose of lead and gunpowder immediately after he fell , he would have recovered forthwith . 
OUT HOUSE , BLACK BOY AND STOMACH ACHE . 
It appeared from this table , that the amount of such income possessed by each was pounds , shillings , and pence , yielding an average of the same . 
'SUPPLEMENTARY SECTION , E. UMBUGOLOGY AND DITCHWATERISICS . 
, but that he always winked and whisked at the same time . 
The animal was lean , spavined , and tottering and the author proposed to constitute it of the family of FITFORDOGSMEATAURIOUS . 
It certainly did occur to him that there was no case on record of a pony with one clearly defined and distinct organ of vision , winking and whisking at the same moment . 
Order be blowed ! you've got the wrong un , I tell you . 
Let us take a slight example . 
The scene is a street an elderly gentleman , with a large face and strongly marked features , appears . 
His countenance beams with a sunny smile , and a perpetual dimple is on his broad , red cheek . 
He is evidently an opulent elderly gentleman , comfortable in circumstances , and well to do in the world . 
How the audience roar ! He is set upon by a noisy and officious crowd , who buffet and cuff him unmercifully . 
They scream with delight ! Every time the elderly gentleman struggles to get up , his relentless persecutors knock him down again . 
Is this like life ? Change the scene to any real street to the Stock Exchange , or the City banker's the merchant's counting house , or even the tradesman's shop . 
See any one of these men fall , the more suddenly , and the nearer the zenith of his pride and riches , the better . 
Why , it is the pantomime to the very letter . 
Of all the pantomimic DRAMATIS PERSONAE , we consider the pantaloon the most worthless and debauched . 
of his own indecorum and temerity continuing , nevertheless , to ogle and beckon to them from a distance in a very unpleasant and immoral manner . 
He hobbles away humming an opera tune , and twirling his cane to and fro , with affected carelessness . 
Suddenly he stops 'tis at the milliner's window . 
See ! he draws beside her . 
He coughs she turns away from him . 
He draws near her again she disregards him . 
She turns away with a flounce , and the old gentleman trots after her with a toothless chuckle . 
The pantaloon to the life ! But the close resemblance which the clowns of the stage bear to those of every day life is perfectly extraordinary . 
Some people talk with a sigh of the decline of pantomime , and murmur in low and dismal tones the name of Grimaldi . 
We mean no disparagement to the worthy and excellent old man when we say that this is downright nonsense . 
The dirty faced gentleman has hardly uttered the words , when he is interrupted by a young gentleman in no shirt collar and a Petersham coat . 
'No , no , says the young gentleman 'he means Brown , King , and Gibson , at the 'Delphi . 
Now it is a most remarkable fact that precisely this sort of thing occurs in real life day after day , and nobody sees the humour of it . 
Let us illustrate our position by detailing the plot of this portion of the pantomime not of the theatre , but of life . 
After various manoeuvres , the imposture is discovered , Fitz Fiercy and Do'em are recognized as confederates , and the police office to which they are both taken is thronged with their dupes . 
So we take it up again at once . 
We see it all , now . 
We sat opposite to one of these men at a supper table , only last week . 
We looked at the man across the table again and again and could not satisfy ourselves what race of beings to class him with . 
How very odd that this never occurred to us before ! We will frankly own that we have been much troubled with the harlequin . 
We see harlequins of so many kinds in the real living pantomime , that we hardly know which to select as the proper fellow of him of the theatres . 
When we remember how frequently this speech is made , immediately after THE CHANGE too , the parallel is quite perfect , and still more singular . 
Perhaps the cast of our political pantomime never was richer than at this day . 
We are particularly strong in clowns . 
These exhibitions are more curious than pleasing indeed , they are rather disgusting than otherwise , except to the admirers of such things , with whom we confess we have no fellow feeling . 
Strange tricks very strange tricks are also performed by the harlequin who holds for the time being the magic wand which we have just mentioned . 
SOME PARTICULARS CONCERNING A LION We have a great respect for lions in the abstract . 
In common with most other people , we have heard and read of many instances of their bravery and generosity . 
All this is extremely pleasant to reflect upon , and , indeed , says a very great deal in favour of lions as a mass . 
But we have seen some under the influence of captivity , and the pressure of misfortune and we must say that they appeared to us very apathetic , heavy headed fellows . 
The lion at the Zoological Gardens , for instance . 
These are pleasant characteristics , whereas we make it matter of distinct charge against the Zoological lion and his brethren at the fairs , that they are sleepy , dreamy , sluggish quadrupeds . 
We do not remember to have ever seen one of them perfectly awake , except at feeding time . 
In every respect we uphold the biped lions against their four footed namesakes , and we boldly challenge controversy upon the subject . 
We at once retracted our plea of a prior engagement , and became as anxious to go , as we had previously been to stay away . 
We went early , and posted ourselves in an eligible part of the drawing room , from whence we could hope to obtain a full view of the interesting animal . 
Two or three hours passed , the quadrilles began , the room filled but no lion appeared . 
Even the young man who had been ordered from the music shop to play the pianoforte was visibly affected , and struck several false notes in the excess of his excitement . 
was in SUCH cue to night ! The lion was a literary one . 
While the lion was exhibiting in this way , his keeper was not idle , for he mingled among the crowd , and spread his praises most industriously . 
Of course the keeper was there already . 
Boswell frequently presents a melancholy instance of the lamentable results of this achievement , and other keepers and jackals have been terribly lacerated for their daring . 
in the Green Dragon the other evening , and , being somewhat amused by the following conversation , preserved it . 
'Can you lend me a ten pound note till Christmas ? inquired the hairdresser of the stomach . 
'Where's your security , Mr. Clip ? 'My stock in trade , there's enough of it , I'm thinking , Mr. Thicknesse . 
Some fifty wigs , two poles , half a dozen head blocks , and a dead Bruin . 
'No , I won't , then , growled out Thicknesse . 
'I lends nothing on the security of the whigs or the Poles either . 
As for whigs , they're cheats as for the Poles , they've got no cash . 
, and a dead bear's about as much use to me as I could be to a dead bear . 
'But how d'ye mean , Mr. Clip ? 'Mean ! why , that it's got the HOTTERGRUFF of Pope . 
Steal not this book , for fear of hangman's rope For it belongs to Alexander Pope . 
All that's written on the inside of the binding of the book so , as my son says , we're BOUND to believe it . 
'Perhaps , sir , said Clip , a little flurried , 'you'll pay for the first upset afore you thinks of another . 
Don't think I'm proud on it , gentlemen others might be but I hate rank of any sort . 
I've no more respect for a Lord's footman than I have for any respectable tradesman in this room . 
I may say no more nor I have for Mr. Clip ! . 
Therefore , that ere Lord must have been born long after Pope died . 
And it's a logical interference to defer , that they neither of them lived at the same time . 
So what I mean is this here , that Pope never had no book , never seed , felt , never smelt no book as belonged to that ere Lord . 
I am not in the habit of paying compliments , gentlemen when I do , therefore , I hope I strikes with double force . 
'Ah , Mr. Murgatroyd ! what's all this about striking with double force ? said the object of the above remark , as he entered . 
'I never excuse a man's getting into a rage during winter , even when he's seated so close to the fire as you are . 
It is very injudicious to put yourself into such a perspiration . 
Mr. Bolton was a young man , with a somewhat sickly and very dissipated expression of countenance . 
His habiliments were composed of an exquisite union of gentility , slovenliness , assumption , simplicity , NEWNESS , and old age . 
Half of him was dressed for the winter , the other half for the summer . 
His hat was of the newest cut , the D'Orsay his trousers had been white , but the inroads of mud and ink , etc . 
His fingers peeped through the ends of his black kid gloves , and two of the toes of each foot took a similar view of society through the extremities of his high lows . 
Sacred to the bare walls of his garret be the mysteries of his interior dress ! He was a short , spare man , of a somewhat inferior deportment . 
Everybody seemed influenced by his entry into the room , and his salutation of each member partook of the patronizing . 
The hairdresser made way for him between himself and the stomach . 
A minute afterwards he had taken possession of his pint and pipe . 
A pause in the conversation took place . 
Everybody was waiting , anxious for his first observation . 
'Horrid murder in Westminster this morning , observed Mr. Bolton . 
All eyes were fixed upon the man of paragraphs . 
'A baker murdered his son by boiling him in a copper , said Mr. Bolton . 
'Good heavens ! exclaimed everybody , in simultaneous horror . 
'His victim , being his son , also was necessarily the son of a baker . 
Mrs. S. , connubially considerate , carried him in that condition up stairs into his chamber , and consigned him to their mutual couch . 
'The son came home about an hour afterwards , opened the door , and went up to bed . 
scared the silence of surrounding night . 
He put his indescribables on again , and ran down stairs . 
He opened the door of the parental bed chamber . 
His father was dancing upon his mother . 
What must have been his feelings ! In the agony of the minute he rushed at his male parent as he was about to plunge a knife into the side of his female . 
Where's my boy ? shrieked the mother . 
In that copper , boiling , coolly replied the benign father . 
'Struck by the awful intelligence , the mother rushed from the house , and alarmed the neighbourhood . 
The police entered a minute afterwards . 
The father , having bolted the wash house door , had bolted himself . 
They dragged the lifeless body of the boiled baker from the cauldron , and , with a promptitude commendable in men of their station , they immediately carried it to the station house . 
Subsequently , the baker was apprehended while seated on the top of a lamp post in Parliament Street , lighting his pipe . 
The whole horrible ideality of the Mysteries of Udolpho , condensed into the pithy effect of a ten line paragraph , could not possibly have so affected the narrator's auditory . 
without the liveliest satisfaction and delight . 
I had a melancholy instance of this only a week or two since . 
'In those dawning times , thought I , 'exhibition rooms shall teem with portraits of Her Majesty's favourite engine , with boilers after Nature by future Landseers . 
Some Amburgh , yet unborn , shall break wild horses by his magic power and in the dress of a mail coach guard exhibit his TRAINED ANIMALS in a mock mail coach . 
I offer no apology to you for the digression , for it brings me very naturally to the subject of change , which is the very subject of which I desire to treat . 
In fact , my child , you have changed hands . 
Unlike the driver of the old Manchester mail , I regard this altered state of things with feelings of unmingled pleasure and satisfaction . 
Unlike the guard of the new Manchester mail , YOUR guard is at home in his new place , and has roystering highwaymen and gallant desperadoes ever within call . 
