Middlemarch By George Eliot New York and Boston H. M. Caldwell Company Publishers To my dear Husband , George Henry Lewes , in this nineteenth year of our blessed union . 
That child pilgrimage was a fit beginning . 
She found her epos in the reform of a religious order . 
That Spanish woman who lived three hundred years ago , was certainly not the last of her kind . 
Their ardor alternated between a vague ideal and the common yearning of womanhood so that the one was disapproved as extravagance , and the other condemned as a lapse . 
Here and there a cygnet is reared uneasily among the ducklings in the brown pond , and never finds the living stream in fellowship with its own oary footed kind . 
CHAPTER I. Since I can do no good because a woman , Reach constantly at something that is near it . 
The Maid's Tragedy BEAUMONT AND FLETCHER . 
Miss Brooke had that kind of beauty which seems to be thrown into relief by poor dress . 
She was usually spoken of as being remarkably clever , but with the addition that her sister Celia had more common sense . 
She could not reconcile the anxieties of a spiritual life involving eternal consequences , with a keen interest in gimp and artificial protrusions of drapery . 
It was hardly a year since they had come to live at Tipton Grange with their uncle , a man nearly sixty , of acquiescent temper , miscellaneous opinions , and uncertain vote . 
He had travelled in his younger years , and was held in this part of the county to have contracted a too rambling habit of mind . 
Women were expected to have weak opinions but the great safeguard of society and of domestic life was , that opinions were not acted on . 
Sane people did what their neighbors did , so that if any lunatics were at large , one might know and avoid them . 
Yet those who approached Dorothea , though prejudiced against her by this alarming hearsay , found that she had a charm unaccountably reconcilable with it . 
Most men thought her bewitching when she was on horseback . 
She loved the fresh air and the various aspects of the country , and when her eyes and cheeks glowed with mingled pleasure she looked very little like a devotee . 
Riding was an indulgence which she allowed herself in spite of conscientious qualms she felt that she enjoyed it in a pagan sensuous way , and always looked forward to renouncing it . 
That he should be regarded as a suitor to herself would have seemed to her a ridiculous irrelevance . 
Dorothea , with all her eagerness to know the truths of life , retained very childlike ideas about marriage . 
These peculiarities of Dorothea's character caused Mr. Brooke to be all the more blamed in neighboring families for not securing some middle aged lady as guide and companion to his nieces . 
So Miss Brooke presided in her uncle's household , and did not at all dislike her new authority , with the homage that belonged to it . 
Sir James Chettam was going to dine at the Grange to day with another gentleman whom the girls had never seen , and about whom Dorothea felt some venerating expectation . 
His very name carried an impressiveness hardly to be measured without a precise chronology of scholarship . 
To her relief , Dorothea's eyes were full of laughter as she looked up . 
You know , he said that he had forgotten them till then . 
I believe you have never thought of them since you locked them up in the cabinet here . 
Well , dear , we should never wear them , you know . 
Dorothea spoke in a full cordial tone , half caressing , half explanatory . 
She had her pencil in her hand , and was making tiny side plans on a margin . 
Celia colored , and looked very grave . 
I think , dear , we are wanting in respect to mamma's memory , to put them by and take no notice of them . 
And Christians generally surely there are women in heaven now who wore jewels . 
Celia was conscious of some mental strength when she really applied herself to argument . 
Of course , then , let us have them out . 
Why did you not tell me before ? But the keys , the keys ! She pressed her hands against the sides of her head and seemed to despair of her memory . 
They are here , said Celia , with whom this explanation had been long meditated and prearranged . 
Pray open the large drawer of the cabinet and get out the jewel box . 
The casket was soon open before them , and the various jewels spread out , making a bright parterre on the table . 
There , Celia ! you can wear that with your Indian muslin . 
But this cross you must wear with your dark dresses . 
Celia was trying not to smile with pleasure . 
O Dodo , you must keep the cross yourself . 
No , no , dear , no , said Dorothea , putting up her hand with careless deprecation . 
Yes , indeed you must it would suit you in your black dress , now , said Celia , insistingly . 
Not for the world , not for the world . 
A cross is the last thing I would wear as a trinket . 
Then you will think it wicked in me to wear it , said Celia , uneasily . 
No , dear , no , said Dorothea , stroking her sister's cheek . 
Souls have complexions too what will suit one will not suit another . 
But you might like to keep it for mamma's sake . 
No , I have other things of mamma's her sandal wood box which I am so fond of plenty of things . 
In fact , they are all yours , dear . 
We need discuss them no longer . 
There take away your property . 
Celia felt a little hurt . 
There was a strong assumption of superiority in this Puritanic toleration , hardly less trying to the blond flesh of an unenthusiastic sister than a Puritanic persecution . 
If I were to put on such a necklace as that , I should feel as if I had been pirouetting . 
The world would go round with me , and I should not know how to walk . 
Celia had unclasped the necklace and drawn it off . 
It would be a little tight for your neck something to lie down and hang would suit you better , she said , with some satisfaction . 
The complete unfitness of the necklace from all points of view for Dorothea , made Celia happier in taking it . 
She was opening some ring boxes , which disclosed a fine emerald with diamonds , and just then the sun passing beyond a cloud sent a bright gleam over the table . 
How very beautiful these gems are ! said Dorothea , under a new current of feeling , as sudden as the gleam . 
It is strange how deeply colors seem to penetrate one , like scent I suppose that is the reason why gems are used as spiritual emblems in the Revelation of St . 
They look like fragments of heaven . 
I think that emerald is more beautiful than any of them . 
And there is a bracelet to match it , said Celia . 
We did not notice this at first . 
They are lovely , said Dorothea , slipping the ring and bracelet on her finely turned finger and wrist , and holding them towards the window on a level with her eyes . 
All the while her thought was trying to justify her delight in the colors by merging them in her mystic religious joy . 
You must keep that ring and bracelet if nothing else . 
But see , these agates are very pretty and quiet . 
Yes ! I will keep these this ring and bracelet , said Dorothea . 
Yes , dear , I will keep these , said Dorothea , decidedly . 
But take all the rest away , and the casket . 
She took up her pencil without removing the jewels , and still looking at them . 
She thought of often having them by her , to feed her eye at these little fountains of pure color . 
Shall you wear them in company ? said Celia , who was watching her with real curiosity as to what she would do . 
Dorothea glanced quickly at her sister . 
Across all her imaginative adornment of those whom she loved , there darted now and then a keen discernment , which was not without a scorching quality . 
If Miss Brooke ever attained perfect meekness , it would not be for lack of inward fire . 
Perhaps , she said , rather haughtily . 
I cannot tell to what level I may sink . 
Dorothea too was unhappy , as she went on with her plan drawing , questioning the purity of her own feeling and speech in the scene which had ended with that little explosion . 
I am sure at least , I trust , thought Celia , that the wearing of a necklace will not interfere with my prayers . 
And I do not see that I should be bound by Dorothea's opinions now we are going into society , though of course she herself ought to be bound by them . 
But Dorothea is not always consistent . 
Thus Celia , mutely bending over her tapestry , until she heard her sister calling her . 
Here , Kitty , come and look at my plan I shall think I am a great architect , if I have not got incompatible stairs and fireplaces . 
As Celia bent over the paper , Dorothea put her cheek against her sister's arm caressingly . 
Dorothea saw that she had been in the wrong , and Celia pardoned her . 
Since they could remember , there had been a mixture of criticism and awe in the attitude of Celia's mind towards her elder sister . 
The younger had always worn a yoke but is there any yoked creature without its private opinions ? CHAPTER II . 
Pues ese es el yelmo de Mambrino , dijo Don Quijote . 
Just so , answered Don Quixote and that resplendent object is the helmet of Mambrino . 
Sir Humphry Davy ? said Mr. Brooke , over the soup , in his easy smiling way , taking up Sir James Chettam's remark that he was studying Davy's Agricultural Chemistry . 
Well , now , Sir Humphry Davy I dined with him years ago at Cartwright's , and Wordsworth was there too the poet Wordsworth , you know . 
Now there was something singular . 
I was at Cambridge when Wordsworth was there , and I never met him and I dined with him twenty years afterwards at Cartwright's . 
There's an oddity in things , now . 
But Davy was there he was a poet too . 
Or , as I may say , Wordsworth was poet one , and Davy was poet two . 
That was true in every sense , you know . 
Dorothea felt a little more uneasy than usual . 
In the beginning of dinner , the party being small and the room still , these motes from the mass of a magistrate's mind fell too noticeably . 
She wondered how a man like Mr. Casaubon would support such triviality . 
His manners , she thought , were very dignified the set of his iron gray hair and his deep eye sockets made him resemble the portrait of Locke . 
He had the spare form and the pale complexion which became a student as different as possible from the blooming Englishman of the red whiskered type represented by Sir James Chettam . 
I went into science a great deal myself at one time but I saw it would not do . 
It leads to everything you can let nothing alone . 
No , no see that your tenants don't sell their straw , and that kind of thing and give them draining tiles , you know . 
But your fancy farming will not do the most expensive sort of whistle you can buy you may as well keep a pack of hounds . 
It is not a sin to make yourself poor in performing experiments for the good of all . 
She spoke with more energy than is expected of so young a lady , but Sir James had appealed to her . 
He was accustomed to do so , and she had often thought that she could urge him to many good actions when he was her brother in law . 
Mr. Casaubon turned his eyes very markedly on Dorothea while she was speaking , and seemed to observe her newly . 
Young ladies don't understand political economy , you know , said Mr. Brooke , smiling towards Mr. Casaubon . 
I remember when we were all reading Adam Smith . 
THERE is a book , now . 
I took in all the new ideas at one time human perfectibility , now . 
But some say , history moves in circles and that may be very well argued I have argued it myself . 
The fact is , human reason may carry you a little too far over the hedge , in fact . 
It carried me a good way at one time but I saw it would not do . 
I pulled up I pulled up in time . 
I have always been in favor of a little theory we must have Thought else we shall be landed back in the dark ages . 
But talking of books , there is Southey's Peninsular War . 
I am reading that of a morning . 
You know Southey ? No said Mr. Casaubon , not keeping pace with Mr. Brooke's impetuous reason , and thinking of the book only . 
I have little leisure for such literature just now . 
It is a misfortune , in some senses I feed too much on the inward sources I live too much with the dead . 
But I find it necessary to use the utmost caution about my eyesight . 
This was the first time that Mr. Casaubon had spoken at any length . 
But you are fond of riding , Miss Brooke , Sir James presently took an opportunity of saying . 
I should have thought you would enter a little into the pleasures of hunting . 
I wish you would let me send over a chestnut horse for you to try . 
It has been trained for a lady . 
I saw you on Saturday cantering over the hill on a nag not worthy of you . 
My groom shall bring Corydon for you every day , if you will only mention the time . 
Thank you , you are very good . 
I mean to give up riding . 
No , that is too hard , said Sir James , in a tone of reproach that showed strong interest . 
Your sister is given to self mortification , is she not ? he continued , turning to Celia , who sat at his right hand . 
I think she is , said Celia , feeling afraid lest she should say something that would not please her sister , and blushing as prettily as possible above her necklace . 
If that were true , Celia , my giving up would be self indulgence , not self mortification . 
But there may be good reasons for choosing not to do what is very agreeable , said Dorothea . 
Mr. Brooke was speaking at the same time , but it was evident that Mr. Casaubon was observing Dorothea , and she was aware of it . 
Exactly , said Sir James . 
You give up from some high , generous motive . 
No , indeed , not exactly . 
I did not say that of myself , answered Dorothea , reddening . 
Unlike Celia , she rarely blushed , and only from high delight or anger . 
At this moment she felt angry with the perverse Sir James . 
I made a great study of theology at one time , said Mr. Brooke , as if to explain the insight just manifested . 
I know something of all schools . 
I knew Wilberforce in his best days . 
Mr. Casaubon bowed , and observed that it was a wide field . 
Yes , said Mr. Brooke , with an easy smile , but I have documents . 
I began a long while ago to collect documents . 
They want arranging , but when a question has struck me , I have written to somebody and got an answer . 
I have documents at my back . 
But now , how do you arrange your documents ? In pigeon holes partly , said Mr. Casaubon , with rather a startled air of effort . 
Ah , pigeon holes will not do . 
I would letter them all , and then make a list of subjects under each letter . 
Mr. Casaubon gravely smiled approval , and said to Mr. Brooke , You have an excellent secretary at hand , you perceive . 
No , no , said Mr. Brooke , shaking his head I cannot let young ladies meddle with my documents . 
Young ladies are too flighty . 
He is remarkably like the portrait of Locke . 
He has the same deep eye sockets . 
Mr. Casaubon is so sallow . 
I suppose you admire a man with the complexion of a cochon de lait . 
Dodo ! exclaimed Celia , looking after her in surprise . 
I never heard you make such a comparison before . 
Why should I make it before the occasion came ? It is a good comparison the match is perfect . 
Miss Brooke was clearly forgetting herself , and Celia thought so . 
I wonder you show temper , Dorothea . 
Has Mr. Casaubon a great soul ? Celia was not without a touch of naive malice . 
Yes , I believe he has , said Dorothea , with the full voice of decision . 
Everything I see in him corresponds to his pamphlet on Biblical Cosmology . 
He talks very little , said Celia There is no one for him to talk to . 
Celia thought privately , Dorothea quite despises Sir James Chettam I believe she would not accept him . 
Celia felt that this was a pity . 
She had never been deceived as to the object of the baronet's interest . 
Notions and scruples were like spilt needles , making one afraid of treading , or sitting down , or even eating . 
When Miss Brooke was at the tea table , Sir James came to sit down by her , not having felt her mode of answering him at all offensive . 
Why should he ? He thought it probable that Miss Brooke liked him , and manners must be very marked indeed before they cease to be interpreted by preconceptions either confident or distrustful . 
She was thoroughly charming to him , but of course he theorized a little about his attachment . 
As to the excessive religiousness alleged against Miss Brooke , he had a very indefinite notion of what it consisted in , and thought that it would die out with marriage . 
Sir James had no idea that he should ever like to put down the predominance of this handsome girl , in whose cleverness he delighted . 
Sir James might not have originated this estimate but a kind Providence furnishes the limpest personality with a little gunk or starch in the form of tradition . 
Let me hope that you will rescind that resolution about the horse , Miss Brooke , said the persevering admirer . 
I assure you , riding is the most healthy of exercises . 
I am aware of it , said Dorothea , coldly . 
I think it would do Celia good if she would take to it . 
But you are such a perfect horsewoman . 
Excuse me I have had very little practice , and I should be easily thrown . 
Then that is a reason for more practice . 
Every lady ought to be a perfect horsewoman , that she may accompany her husband . 
You see how widely we differ , Sir James . 
I have made up my mind that I ought not to be a perfect horsewoman , and so I should never correspond to your pattern of a lady . 
Dorothea looked straight before her , and spoke with cold brusquerie , very much with the air of a handsome boy , in amusing contrast with the solicitous amiability of her admirer . 
I should like to know your reasons for this cruel resolution . 
It is not possible that you should think horsemanship wrong . 
It is quite possible that I should think it wrong for me . 
Oh , why ? said Sir James , in a tender tone of remonstrance . 
Mr. Casaubon had come up to the table , teacup in hand , and was listening . 
We must not inquire too curiously into motives , he interposed , in his measured way . 
Miss Brooke knows that they are apt to become feeble in the utterance the aroma is mixed with the grosser air . 
We must keep the germinating grain away from the light . 
Dorothea colored with pleasure , and looked up gratefully to the speaker . 
Has any one ever pinched into its pilulous smallness the cobweb of pre matrimonial acquaintanceship ? Certainly , said good Sir James . 
Miss Brooke shall not be urged to tell reasons she would rather be silent upon . 
I am sure her reasons would do her honor . 
He felt that he had chosen the one who was in all respects the superior and a man naturally likes to look forward to having the best . 
He would be the very Mawworm of bachelors who pretended not to expect it . 
Say , goddess , what ensued , when Raphael , The affable archangel . 
Eve The story heard attentive , and was filled With admiration , and deep muse , to hear Of things so high and strange . 
Paradise Lost , B. vii . 
that all the mythical systems or erratic mythical fragments in the world were corruptions of a tradition originally revealed . 
Having once mastered the true position and taken a firm footing there , the vast field of mythical constructions became intelligible , nay , luminous with the reflected light of correspondences . 
But to gather in this great harvest of truth was no light or speedy work . 
A learned provincial clergyman is accustomed to think of his acquaintances as of lords , knyghtes , and other noble and worthi men , that conne Latyn but lytille . 
Dorothea was altogether captivated by the wide embrace of this conception . 
He thinks with me , said Dorothea to herself , or rather , he thinks a whole world of which my thought is but a poor twopenny mirror . 
Because Miss Brooke was hasty in her trust , it is not therefore clear that Mr. Casaubon was unworthy of it . 
Look here here is all about Greece . 
Rhamnus , the ruins of Rhamnus you are a great Grecian , now . 
I don't know whether you have given much study to the topography . 
I spent no end of time in making out these things Helicon , now . 
Here , now ! We started the next morning for Parnassus , the double peaked Parnassus . 
All this volume is about Greece , you know , Mr. Brooke wound up , rubbing his thumb transversely along the edges of the leaves as he held the book forward . 
And he delivered this statement with as much careful precision as if he had been a diplomatic envoy whose words would be attended with results . 
Indeed , Mr. Casaubon was not used to expect that he should have to repeat or revise his communications of a practical or personal kind . 
Bernard dog , who always took care of the young ladies in their walks . 
This was a trait of Miss Brooke's asceticism . 
It had now entered Dorothea's mind that Mr. Casaubon might wish to make her his wife , and the idea that he would do so touched her with a sort of reverential gratitude . 
From such contentment poor Dorothea was shut out . 
The thing which seemed to her best , she wanted to justify by the completest knowledge and not to live in a pretended admission of rules which were never acted on . 
I should learn everything then , she said to herself , still walking quickly along the bridle road through the wood . 
It would be my duty to study that I might help him the better in his great works . 
There would be nothing trivial about our lives . 
Every day things with us would mean the greatest things . 
It would be like marrying Pascal . 
I should learn to see the truth by the same light as great men have seen it by . 
And then I should know what to do , when I got older I should see how it was possible to lead a grand life here now in England . 
Oh , I hope I should be able to get the people well housed in Lowick ! I will draw plenty of plans while I have time . 
The well groomed chestnut horse and two beautiful setters could leave no doubt that the rider was Sir James Chettam . 
How delightful to meet you , Miss Brooke , he said , raising his hat and showing his sleekly waving blond hair . 
It has hastened the pleasure I was looking forward to . 
Miss Brooke was annoyed at the interruption . 
This amiable baronet , really a suitable husband for Celia , exaggerated the necessity of making himself agreeable to the elder sister . 
Even a prospective brother in law may be an oppression if he will always be presupposing too good an understanding with you , and agreeing with you even when you contradict him . 
The thought that he had made the mistake of paying his addresses to herself could not take shape all her mental activity was used up in persuasions of another kind . 
But he was positively obtrusive at this moment , and his dimpled hands were quite disagreeable . 
Her roused temper made her color deeply , as she returned his greeting with some haughtiness . 
Sir James interpreted the heightened color in the way most gratifying to himself , and thought he never saw Miss Brooke looking so handsome . 
I have brought a little petitioner , he said , or rather , I have brought him to see if he will be approved before his petition is offered . 
He showed the white object under his arm , which was a tiny Maltese puppy , one of nature's most naive toys . 
It is painful to me to see these creatures that are bred merely as pets , said Dorothea , whose opinion was forming itself that very moment under the heat of irritation . 
Oh , why ? said Sir James , as they walked forward . 
I believe all the petting that is given them does not make them happy . 
They are too helpless their lives are too frail . 
A weasel or a mouse that gets its own living is more interesting . 
I am so glad I know that you do not like them , said good Sir James . 
I should never keep them for myself , but ladies usually are fond of these Maltese dogs . 
But she felt it necessary to explain . 
You must not judge of Celia's feeling from mine . 
I think she likes these small pets . 
She had a tiny terrier once , which she was very fond of . 
It made me unhappy , because I was afraid of treading on it . 
I am rather short sighted . 
You have your own opinion about everything , Miss Brooke , and it is always a good opinion . 
I don't quite understand what you mean . 
Your power of forming an opinion . 
I can form an opinion of persons . 
I know when I like people . 
But about other matters , do you know , I have often a difficulty in deciding . 
One hears very sensible things said on opposite sides . 
Perhaps we don't always discriminate between sense and nonsense . 
Dorothea felt that she was rather rude . 
Exactly , said Sir James . 
But you seem to have the power of discrimination . 
On the contrary , I am often unable to decide . 
But that is from ignorance . 
The right conclusion is there all the same , though I am unable to see it . 
I think there are few who would see it more readily . 
Do you know , Lovegood was telling me yesterday that you had the best notion in the world of a plan for cottages quite wonderful for a young lady , he thought . 
You had a real GENUS , to use his expression . 
He said you wanted Mr. Brooke to build a new set of cottages , but he seemed to think it hardly probable that your uncle would consent . 
Do you know , that is one of the things I wish to do I mean , on my own estate . 
I should be so glad to carry out that plan of yours , if you would let me see it . 
Of course , it is sinking money that is why people object to it . 
Laborers can never pay rent to make it answer . 
But , after all , it is worth doing . 
Worth doing ! yes , indeed , said Dorothea , energetically , forgetting her previous small vexations . 
I think we deserve to be beaten out of our beautiful houses with a scourge of small cords all of us who let tenants live in such sties as we see round us . 
Life in cottages might be happier than ours , if they were real houses fit for human beings from whom we expect duties and affections . 
Will you show me your plan ? Yes , certainly . 
I dare say it is very faulty . 
But I have been examining all the plans for cottages in Loudon's book , and picked out what seem the best things . 
Oh what a happiness it would be to set the pattern about here ! I think instead of Lazarus at the gate , we should put the pigsty cottages outside the park gate . 
Dorothea was in the best temper now . 
He also took away a complacent sense that he was making great progress in Miss Brooke's good opinion . 
The Maltese puppy was not offered to Celia an omission which Dorothea afterwards thought of with surprise but she blamed herself for it . 
She had been engrossing Sir James . 
After all , it was a relief that there was no puppy to tread upon . 
Celia was present while the plans were being examined , and observed Sir James's illusion . 
He thinks that Dodo cares about him , and she only cares about her plans . 
Yet I am not certain that she would refuse him if she thought he would let her manage everything and carry out all her notions . 
And how very uncomfortable Sir James would be ! I cannot bear notions . 
It was Celia's private luxury to indulge in this dislike . 
Celia was not impulsive what she had to say could wait , and came from her always with the same quiet staccato evenness . 
When people talked with energy and emphasis she watched their faces and features merely . 
She never could understand how well bred persons consented to sing and open their mouths in the ridiculous manner requisite for that vocal exercise . 
It was not many days before Mr. Casaubon paid a morning visit , on which he was invited again for the following week to dine and stay the night . 
Thus Dorothea had three more conversations with him , and was convinced that her first impressions had been just . 
He talked of what he was interested in , or else he was silent and bowed with sad civility . 
To Dorothea this was adorable genuineness , and religious abstinence from that artificiality which uses up the soul in the efforts of pretence . 
For she looked as reverently at Mr. Casaubon's religious elevation above herself as she did at his intellect and learning . 
On one only one of her favorite themes she was disappointed . 
Sir James said Exactly , and she bore the word remarkably well . 
Our deeds are fetters that we forge ourselves . 
Ay , truly but I think it is the world That brings the iron . 
Sir James seems determined to do everything you wish , said Celia , as they were driving home from an inspection of the new building site . 
He is a good creature , and more sensible than any one would imagine , said Dorothea , inconsiderately . 
You mean that he appears silly . 
No , no , said Dorothea , recollecting herself , and laying her hand on her sister's a moment , but he does not talk equally well on all subjects . 
I should think none but disagreeable people do , said Celia , in her usual purring way . 
They must be very dreadful to live with . 
Only think ! at breakfast , and always . 
Of course people need not be always talking well . 
Only one tells the quality of their minds when they try to talk well . 
You mean that Sir James tries and fails . 
Why do you catechise me about Sir James ? It is not the object of his life to please me . 
Now , Dodo , can you really believe that ? Certainly . 
He thinks of me as a future sister that is all . 
Dorothea had never hinted this before , waiting , from a certain shyness on such subjects which was mutual between the sisters , until it should be introduced by some decisive event . 
Celia blushed , but said at once Pray do not make that mistake any longer , Dodo . 
When Tantripp was brushing my hair the other day , she said that Sir James's man knew from Mrs. Cadwallader's maid that Sir James was to marry the eldest Miss Brooke . 
You must have asked her questions . 
I see no harm at all in Tantripp's talking to me . 
It is better to hear what people say . 
You see what mistakes you make by taking up notions . 
And uncle too I know he expects it . 
Every one can see that Sir James is very much in love with you . 
The revulsion was so strong and painful in Dorothea's mind that the tears welled up and flowed abundantly . 
All her dear plans were embittered , and she thought with disgust of Sir James's conceiving that she recognized him as her lover . 
There was vexation too on account of Celia . 
How could he expect it ? she burst forth in her most impetuous manner . 
I have never agreed with him about anything but the cottages I was barely polite to him before . 
But you have been so pleased with him since then he has begun to feel quite sure that you are fond of him . 
Fond of him , Celia ! How can you choose such odious expressions ? said Dorothea , passionately . 
Dear me , Dorothea , I suppose it would be right for you to be fond of a man whom you accepted for a husband . 
It is offensive to me to say that Sir James could think I was fond of him . 
Besides , it is not the right word for the feeling I must have towards the man I would accept as a husband . 
Well , I am sorry for Sir James . 
I thought it right to tell you , because you went on as you always do , never looking just where you are , and treading in the wrong place . 
You always see what nobody else sees it is impossible to satisfy you yet you never see what is quite plain . 
That's your way , Dodo . 
Something certainly gave Celia unusual courage and she was not sparing the sister of whom she was occasionally in awe . 
Who can tell what just criticisms Murr the Cat may be passing on us beings of wider speculation ? It is very painful , said Dorothea , feeling scourged . 
I can have no more to do with the cottages . 
I must be uncivil to him . 
I must tell him I will have nothing to do with them . 
Her eyes filled again with tears . 
You know he is going away for a day or two to see his sister . 
There will be nobody besides Lovegood . 
Celia could not help relenting . 
Poor Dodo , she went on , in an amiable staccato . 
It is very hard it is your favorite FAD to draw plans . 
FAD to draw plans ! Do you think I only care about my fellow creatures' houses in that childish way ? I may well make mistakes . 
He had returned , during their absence , from a journey to the county town , about a petition for the pardon of some criminal . 
Well , my dears , he said , kindly , as they went up to kiss him , I hope nothing disagreeable has happened while I have been away . 
No , uncle , said Celia , we have been to Freshitt to look at the cottages . 
We thought you would have been at home to lunch . 
I came by Lowick to lunch you didn't know I came by Lowick . 
And I have brought a couple of pamphlets for you , Dorothea in the library , you know they lie on the table in the library . 
It seemed as if an electric stream went through Dorothea , thrilling her from despair into expectation . 
They were pamphlets about the early Church . 
The oppression of Celia , Tantripp , and Sir James was shaken off , and she walked straight to the library . 
She was getting away from Tipton and Freshitt , and her own sad liability to tread in the wrong places on her way to the New Jerusalem . 
Dorothea closed her pamphlet , as soon as she was aware of her uncle's presence , and rose as if to go . 
Usually she would have been interested about her uncle's merciful errand on behalf of the criminal , but her late agitation had made her absent minded . 
This fundamental principle of human speech was markedly exhibited in Mr. Brooke . 
I lunched there and saw Casaubon's library , and that kind of thing . 
There's a sharp air , driving . 
Won't you sit down , my dear ? You look cold . 
Dorothea felt quite inclined to accept the invitation . 
Some times , when her uncle's easy way of taking things did not happen to be exasperating , it was rather soothing . 
She threw off her mantle and bonnet , and sat down opposite to him , enjoying the glow , but lifting up her beautiful hands for a screen . 
They were not thin hands , or small hands but powerful , feminine , maternal hands . 
She bethought herself now of the condemned criminal . 
What news have you brought about the sheep stealer , uncle ? What , poor Bunch ? well , it seems we can't get him off he is to be hanged . 
Dorothea's brow took an expression of reprobation and pity . 
Hanged , you know , said Mr. Brooke , with a quiet nod . 
Poor Romilly ! he would have helped us . 
He is a little buried in books , you know , Casaubon is . 
When a man has great studies and is writing a great work , he must of course give up seeing much of the world . 
How can he go about making acquaintances ? That's true . 
But a man mopes , you know . 
I have always been a bachelor too , but I have that sort of disposition that I never moped it was my way to go about everywhere and take in everything . 
I never moped but I can see that Casaubon does , you know . 
He wants a companion a companion , you know . 
It would be a great honor to any one to be his companion , said Dorothea , energetically . 
You like him , eh ? said Mr. Brooke , without showing any surprise , or other emotion . 
Well , now , I've known Casaubon ten years , ever since he came to Lowick . 
But I never got anything out of him any ideas , you know . 
However , he is a tiptop man and may be a bishop that kind of thing , you know , if Peel stays in . 
And he has a very high opinion of you , my dear . 
The fact is , he has a very high opinion indeed of you . 
And he speaks uncommonly well does Casaubon . 
He has deferred to me , you not being of age . 
In short , I have promised to speak to you , though I told him I thought there was not much chance . 
I was bound to tell him that . 
I said , my niece is very young , and that kind of thing . 
But I didn't think it necessary to go into everything . 
I thought it better to tell you , my dear . 
What feeling he , as a magistrate who had taken in so many ideas , could make room for , was unmixedly kind . 
Since Dorothea did not speak immediately , he repeated , I thought it better to tell you , my dear . 
Thank you , uncle , said Dorothea , in a clear unwavering tone . 
I am very grateful to Mr. Casaubon . 
If he makes me an offer , I shall accept him . 
I admire and honor him more than any man I ever saw . 
Mr. Brooke paused a little , and then said in a lingering low tone , Ah ? . 
Well ! He is a good match in some respects . 
But now , Chettam is a good match . 
And our land lies together . 
I shall never interfere against your wishes , my dear . 
People should have their own way in marriage , and that sort of thing up to a certain point , you know . 
I have always said that , up to a certain point . 
I wish you to marry well and I have good reason to believe that Chettam wishes to marry you . 
I mention it , you know . 
It is impossible that I should ever marry Sir James Chettam , said Dorothea . 
If he thinks of marrying me , he has made a great mistake . 
That is it , you see . 
I should have thought Chettam was just the sort of man a woman would like , now . 
Pray do not mention him in that light again , uncle , said Dorothea , feeling some of her late irritation revive . 
Mr. Brooke wondered , and felt that women were an inexhaustible subject of study , since even he at his age was not in a perfect state of scientific prediction about them . 
Here was a fellow like Chettam with no chance at all . 
Well , but Casaubon , now . 
There is no hurry I mean for you . 
It's true , every year will tell upon him . 
He is over five and forty , you know . 
I should say a good seven and twenty years older than you . 
To be sure , if you like learning and standing , and that sort of thing , we can't have everything . 
And his income is good he has a handsome property independent of the Church his income is good . 
Still he is not young , and I must not conceal from you , my dear , that I think his health is not over strong . 
I know nothing else against him . 
I should not wish to have a husband very near my own age , said Dorothea , with grave decision . 
I should wish to have a husband who was above me in judgment and in all knowledge . 
Mr. Brooke repeated his subdued , Ah ? I thought you had more of your own opinion than most girls . 
I thought you liked your own opinion liked it , you know . 
You couldn't put the thing better couldn't put it better , beforehand , you know . 
But there are oddities in things , continued Mr. Brooke , whose conscience was really roused to do the best he could for his niece on this occasion . 
Life isn't cast in a mould not cut out by rule and line , and that sort of thing . 
I never married myself , and it will be the better for you and yours . 
The fact is , I never loved any one well enough to put myself into a noose for them . 
It IS a noose , you know . 
And a husband likes to be master . 
I know that I must expect trials , uncle . 
Marriage is a state of higher duties . 
I never thought of it as mere personal ease , said poor Dorothea . 
Well , you are not fond of show , a great establishment , balls , dinners , that kind of thing . 
I can see that Casaubon's ways might suit you better than Chettam's . 
And you shall do as you like , my dear . 
I would not hinder Casaubon I said so at once for there is no knowing how anything may turn out . 
You have not the same tastes as every young lady and a clergyman and scholar who may be a bishop that kind of thing may suit you better than Chettam . 
Chettam is a good fellow , a good sound hearted fellow , you know but he doesn't go much into ideas . 
I did , when I was his age . 
But Casaubon's eyes , now . 
I think he has hurt them a little with too much reading . 
I should be all the happier , uncle , the more room there was for me to help him , said Dorothea , ardently . 
You have quite made up your mind , I see . 
Well , my dear , the fact is , I have a letter for you in my pocket . 
Mr. Brooke handed the letter to Dorothea , but as she rose to go away , he added , There is not too much hurry , my dear . 
Think about it , you know . 
When Dorothea had left him , he reflected that he had certainly spoken strongly he had put the risks of marriage before her in a striking manner . 
It was his duty to do so . 
In short , woman was a problem which , since Mr. Brooke's mind felt blank before it , could be hardly less complicated than the revolutions of an irregular solid . 
and all through immoderate pains and extraordinary studies . 
If you will not believe the truth of this , look upon great Tostatus and Thomas Aquainas' works and tell me whether those men took pains . 
BURTON'S Anatomy of Melancholy , P. I , s . 
This was Mr. Casaubon's letter . 
MY DEAR MISS BROOKE , I have your guardian's permission to address you on a subject than which I have none more at heart . 
Our conversations have , I think , made sufficiently clear to you the tenor of my life and purposes a tenor unsuited , I am aware , to the commoner order of minds . 
, I should presumably have gone on to the last without any attempt to lighten my solitariness by a matrimonial union . 
To be accepted by you as your husband and the earthly guardian of your welfare , I should regard as the highest of providential gifts . 
I await the expression of your sentiments with an anxiety which it would be the part of wisdom to divert by a more arduous labor than usual . 
In any case , I shall remain , Yours with sincere devotion , EDWARD CASAUBON . 
Dorothea trembled while she read this letter then she fell on her knees , buried her face , and sobbed . 
She remained in that attitude till it was time to dress for dinner . 
She was going to have room for the energies which stirred uneasily under the dimness and pressure of her own ignorance and the petty peremptoriness of the world's habits . 
Now she would be able to devote herself to large yet definite duties now she would be allowed to live continually in the light of a mind that she could reverence . 
This hope was not unmixed with the glow of proud delight the joyous maiden surprise that she was chosen by the man whom her admiration had chosen . 
All Dorothea's passion was transfused through a mind struggling towards an ideal life the radiance of her transfigured girlhood fell on the first object that came within its level . 
The impetus with which inclination became resolution was heightened by those little events of the day which had roused her discontent with the actual conditions of her life . 
CASAUBON , I am very grateful to you for loving me , and thinking me worthy to be your wife . 
I can look forward to no better happiness than that which would be one with yours . 
Later in the evening she followed her uncle into the library to give him the letter , that he might send it in the morning . 
Have you thought enough about this , my dear ? he said at last . 
There was no need to think long , uncle . 
I know of nothing to make me vacillate . 
If I changed my mind , it must be because of something important and entirely new to me . 
Mr. Brooke threw his head and shoulders backward as if some one had thrown a light missile at him . 
Dorothea immediately felt some self rebuke , and said I mean in the light of a husband . 
He is very kind , I think really very good about the cottages . 
But you must have a scholar , and that sort of thing ? Well , it lies a little in our family . 
Clever sons , clever mothers . 
I went a good deal into that , at one time . 
However , my dear , I have always said that people should do as they like in these things , up to a certain point . 
I couldn't , as your guardian , have consented to a bad match . 
But Casaubon stands well his position is good . 
I am afraid Chettam will be hurt , though , and Mrs. Cadwallader will blame me . 
That evening , of course , Celia knew nothing of what had happened . 
But the best of Dodo was , that she did not keep angry for long together . 
Celia knelt down to get the right level and gave her little butterfly kiss , while Dorothea encircled her with gentle arms and pressed her lips gravely on each cheek in turn . 
Don't sit up , Dodo , you are so pale to night go to bed soon , said Celia , in a comfortable way , without any touch of pathos . 
No , dear , I am very , very happy , said Dorothea , fervently . 
So much the better , thought Celia . 
But how strangely Dodo goes from one extreme to the other . 
The next day , at luncheon , the butler , handing something to Mr. Brooke , said , Jonas is come back , sir , and has brought this letter . 
It seemed as if something like the reflection of a white sunlit wing had passed across her features , ending in one of her rare blushes . 
For the first time it entered into Celia's mind that there might be something more between Mr. Casaubon and her sister than his delight in bookish talk and her delight in listening . 
Hitherto she had classed the admiration for this ugly and learned acquaintance with the admiration for Monsieur Liret at Lausanne , also ugly and learned . 
But now Celia was really startled at the suspicion which had darted into her mind . 
But perhaps Dodo , if she were really bordering on such an extravagance , might be turned away from it experience had often shown that her impressibility might be calculated on . 
She herself had taken up the making of a toy for the curate's children , and was not going to enter on any subject too precipitately . 
Is any one else coming to dine besides Mr. Casaubon ? Not that I know of . 
I hope there is some one else . 
Then I shall not hear him eat his soup so . 
What is there remarkable about his soup eating ? Really , Dodo , can't you hear how he scrapes his spoon ? And he always blinks before he speaks . 
I don't know whether Locke blinked , but I'm sure I am sorry for those who sat opposite to him if he did . 
Celia , said Dorothea , with emphatic gravity , pray don't make any more observations of that kind . 
Why not ? They are quite true , returned Celia , who had her reasons for persevering , though she was beginning to be a little afraid . 
Many things are true which only the commonest minds observe . 
Then I think the commonest minds must be rather useful . 
I think it is a pity Mr. Casaubon's mother had not a commoner mind she might have taught him better . 
Celia was inwardly frightened , and ready to run away , now she had hurled this light javelin . 
Dorothea's feelings had gathered to an avalanche , and there could be no further preparation . 
It is right to tell you , Celia , that I am engaged to marry Mr. Casaubon . 
Perhaps Celia had never turned so pale before . 
The paper man she was making would have had his leg injured , but for her habitual care of whatever she held in her hands . 
She laid the fragile figure down at once , and sat perfectly still for a few moments . 
When she spoke there was a tear gathering Oh , Dodo , I hope you will be happy . 
Her sisterly tenderness could not but surmount other feelings at this moment , and her fears were the fears of affection . 
Dorothea was still hurt and agitated . 
It is quite decided , then ? said Celia , in an awed under tone . 
And uncle knows ? I have accepted Mr. Casaubon's offer . 
My uncle brought me the letter that contained it he knew about it beforehand . 
I beg your pardon , if I have said anything to hurt you , Dodo , said Celia , with a slight sob . 
She never could have thought that she should feel as she did . 
There was something funereal in the whole affair , and Mr. Casaubon seemed to be the officiating clergyman , about whom it would be indecent to make remarks . 
Never mind , Kitty , do not grieve . 
We should never admire the same people . 
I often offend in something of the same way I am apt to speak too strongly of those who don't please me . 
In spite of this magnanimity Dorothea was still smarting perhaps as much from Celia's subdued astonishment as from her small criticisms . 
Of course all the world round Tipton would be out of sympathy with this marriage . 
Dorothea knew of no one who thought as she did about life and its best objects . 
Nevertheless before the evening was at an end she was very happy . 
that he should be the object of it . 
That I should ever meet with a mind and person so rich in the mingled graces which could render marriage desirable , was far indeed from my conception . 
You have all nay , more than all those qualities which I have ever regarded as the characteristic excellences of womanhood . 
The great charm of your sex is its capability of an ardent self sacrificing affection , and herein we see its fitness to round and complete the existence of our own . 
Hitherto I have known few pleasures save of the severer kind my satisfactions have been those of the solitary student . 
I have been little disposed to gather flowers that would wither in my hand , but now I shall pluck them with eagerness , to place them in your bosom . 
I am very ignorant you will quite wonder at my ignorance , said Dorothea . 
I have so many thoughts that may be quite mistaken and now I shall be able to tell them all to you , and ask you about them . 
But , she added , with rapid imagination of Mr. Casaubon's probable feeling , I will not trouble you too much only when you are inclined to listen to me . 
You must often be weary with the pursuit of subjects in your own track . 
I shall gain enough if you will take me with you there . 
He was being unconsciously wrought upon by the charms of a nature which was entirely without hidden calculations either for immediate effects or for remoter ends . 
She was not in the least teaching Mr. Casaubon to ask if he were good enough for her , but merely asking herself anxiously how she could be good enough for Mr. Casaubon . 
Before he left the next day it had been decided that the marriage should take place within six weeks . 
Why not ? Mr. Casaubon's house was ready . 
It was not a parsonage , but a considerable mansion , with much land attached to it . 
The parsonage was inhabited by the curate , who did all the duty except preaching the morning sermon . 
My lady's tongue is like the meadow blades , That cut you stroking them with idle hand . 
Nice cutting is her function she divides With spiritual edge the millet seed , And makes intangible savings . 
As Mr. Casaubon's carriage was passing out of the gateway , it arrested the entrance of a pony phaeton driven by a lady with a servant seated behind . 
Well , Mrs. Fitchett , how are your fowls laying now ? said the high colored , dark eyed lady , with the clearest chiselled utterance . 
Pretty well for laying , madam , but they've ta'en to eating their eggs I've no peace o' mind with 'em at all . 
Oh , the cannibals ! Better sell them cheap at once . 
What will you sell them a couple ? One can't eat fowls of a bad character at a high price . 
Well , madam , half a crown I couldn't let 'em go , not under . 
Half a crown , these times ! Come now for the Rector's chicken broth on a Sunday . 
He has consumed all ours that I can spare . 
You are half paid with the sermon , Mrs. Fitchett , remember that . 
Take a pair of tumbler pigeons for them little beauties . 
You must come and see them . 
You have no tumblers among your pigeons . 
Well , madam , Master Fitchett shall go and see 'em after work . 
He's very hot on new sorts to oblige you . 
Oblige me ! It will be the best bargain he ever made . 
Such a lady gave a neighborliness to both rank and religion , and mitigated the bitterness of uncommuted tithe . 
A much more exemplary character with an infusion of sour dignity would not have furthered their comprehension of the Thirty nine Articles , and would have been less socially uniting . 
Mr. Brooke , seeing Mrs. Cadwallader's merits from a different point of view , winced a little when her name was announced in the library , where he was sitting alone . 
I see you have had our Lowick Cicero here , she said , seating herself comfortably , throwing back her wraps , and showing a thin but well built figure . 
I suspect you and he are brewing some bad polities , else you would not be seeing so much of the lively man . 
I shall inform against you remember you are both suspicious characters since you took Peel's side about the Catholic Bill . 
Come , confess ! Nothing of the sort , said Mr. Brooke , smiling and rubbing his eye glasses , but really blushing a little at the impeachment . 
Casaubon and I don't talk politics much . 
He doesn't care much about the philanthropic side of things punishments , and that kind of thing . 
He only cares about Church questions . 
That is not my line of action , you know . 
Ra a ther too much , my friend . 
I have heard of your doings . 
Who was it that sold his bit of land to the Papists at Middlemarch ? I believe you bought it on purpose . 
You are a perfect Guy Faux . 
See if you are not burnt in effigy this th of November coming . 
Humphrey would not come to quarrel with you about it , so I am come . 
I was prepared to be persecuted for not persecuting not persecuting , you know . 
There you go ! That is a piece of clap trap you have got ready for the hustings . 
Now , DO NOT let them lure you to the hustings , my dear Mr. Brooke . 
A man always makes a fool of himself , speechifying there's no excuse but being on the right side , so that you can ask a blessing on your humming and hawing . 
You will lose yourself , I forewarn you . 
You will make a Saturday pie of all parties' opinions , and be pelted by everybody . 
That is what I expect , you know , said Mr. Brooke , not wishing to betray how little he enjoyed this prophetic sketch what I expect as an independent man . 
As to the Whigs , a man who goes with the thinkers is not likely to be hooked on by any party . 
He may go with them up to a certain point up to a certain point , you know . 
But that is what you ladies never understand . 
Nobody knows where Brooke will be there's no counting on Brooke' that is what people say of you , to be quite frank . 
Now , do turn respectable . 
Your sex are not thinkers , you know varium et mutabile semper that kind of thing . 
I knew Mr. Brooke reflected in time that he had not had the personal acquaintance of the Augustan poet I was going to say , poor Stoddart , you know . 
That was what HE said . 
You ladies are always against an independent attitude a man's caring for nothing but truth , and that sort of thing . 
People of standing should consume their independent nonsense at home , not hawk it about . 
And you ! who are going to marry your niece , as good as your daughter , to one of our best men . 
Sir James would be cruelly annoyed it will be too hard on him if you turn round now and make yourself a Whig sign board . 
Mr. Brooke again winced inwardly , for Dorothea's engagement had no sooner been decided , than he had thought of Mrs. Cadwallader's prospective taunts . 
Why not ? said Mrs. Cadwallader , with a sharp note of surprise . 
It is hardly a fortnight since you and I were talking about it . 
My niece has chosen another suitor has chosen him , you know . 
I have had nothing to do with it . 
I should have preferred Chettam and I should have said Chettam was the man any girl would have chosen . 
But there is no accounting for these things . 
Your sex is capricious , you know . 
Why , whom do you mean to say that you are going to let her marry ? Mrs. Cadwallader's mind was rapidly surveying the possibilities of choice for Dorothea . 
But here Celia entered , blooming from a walk in the garden , and the greeting with her delivered Mr. Brooke from the necessity of answering immediately . 
He got up hastily , and saying , By the way , I must speak to Wright about the horses , shuffled quickly out of the room . 
My dear child , what is this ? this about your sister's engagement ? said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
How long has it been going on ? I only knew of it yesterday . 
They are to be married in six weeks . 
Well , my dear , I wish you joy of your brother in law . 
I am so sorry for Dorothea . 
Sorry ! It is her doing , I suppose . 
Yes she says Mr. Casaubon has a great soul . 
Oh , Mrs. Cadwallader , I don't think it can be nice to marry a man with a great soul . 
Well , my dear , take warning . 
You know the look of one now when the next comes and wants to marry you , don't you accept him . 
I'm sure I never should . 
No one such in a family is enough . 
So your sister never cared about Sir James Chettam ? What would you have said to HIM for a brother in law ? I should have liked that very much . 
I am sure he would have been a good husband . 
, I don't think he would have suited Dorothea . 
Not high flown enough ? Dodo is very strict . 
She thinks so much about everything , and is so particular about what one says . 
Sir James never seemed to please her . 
She must have encouraged him , I am sure . 
That is not very creditable . 
Please don't be angry with Dodo she does not see things . 
She thought so much about the cottages , and she was rude to Sir James sometimes but he is so kind , he never noticed it . 
Well , said Mrs. Cadwallader , putting on her shawl , and rising , as if in haste , I must go straight to Sir James and break this to him . 
He will have brought his mother back by this time , and I must call . 
Your uncle will never tell him . 
We are all disappointed , my dear . 
Young people should think of their families in marrying . 
However , Casaubon has money enough I must do him that justice . 
As to his blood , I suppose the family quarterings are three cuttle fish sable , and a commentator rampant . 
By the bye , before I go , my dear , I must speak to your Mrs. Carter about pastry . 
I want to send my young cook to learn of her . 
Poor people with four children , like us , you know , can't afford to keep a good cook . 
I have no doubt Mrs. Carter will oblige me . 
Sir James's cook is a perfect dragon . 
Sir James Chettam had returned from the short journey which had kept him absent for a couple of days , and had changed his dress , intending to ride over to Tipton Grange . 
His horse was standing at the door when Mrs. Cadwallader drove up , and he immediately appeared there himself , whip in hand . 
It was of no use protesting , against Mrs. Cadwallader's way of putting things . 
But Sir James's countenance changed a little . 
He felt a vague alarm . 
I do believe Brooke is going to expose himself after all . 
I accused him of meaning to stand for Middlemarch on the Liberal side , and he looked silly and never denied it talked about the independent line , and the usual nonsense . 
Is that all ? said Sir James , much relieved . 
He would not like the expense . 
That is what I told him . 
He is vulnerable to reason there always a few grains of common sense in an ounce of miserliness . 
Miserliness is a capital quality to run in families it's the safe side for madness to dip on . 
And there must be a little crack in the Brooke family , else we should not see what we are to see . 
What ? Brooke standing for Middlemarch ? Worse than that . 
I really feel a little responsible . 
I always told you Miss Brooke would be such a fine match . 
I knew there was a great deal of nonsense in her a flighty sort of Methodistical stuff . 
But these things wear out of girls . 
However , I am taken by surprise for once . 
What do you mean , Mrs. Cadwallader ? said Sir James . 
What has happened to Miss Brooke ? Pray speak out . 
She is engaged to be married . 
Sir James let his whip fall and stooped to pick it up . 
Perhaps his face had never before gathered so much concentrated disgust as when he turned to Mrs. Cadwallader and repeated , Casaubon ? Even so . 
You know my errand now . 
She says , he is a great soul . 
A great bladder for dried peas to rattle in ! said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
What business has an old bachelor like that to marry ? said Sir James . 
He has one foot in the grave . 
He means to draw it out again , I suppose . 
Brooke ought not to allow it he should insist on its being put off till she is of age . 
She would think better of it then . 
What is a guardian for ? As if you could ever squeeze a resolution out of Brooke ! Cadwallader might talk to him . 
Not he ! Humphrey finds everybody charming I never can get him to abuse Casaubon . 
Come , come , cheer up ! you are well rid of Miss Brooke , a girl who would have been requiring you to see the stars by daylight . 
Between ourselves , little Celia is worth two of her , and likely after all to be the better match . 
For this marriage to Casaubon is as good as going to a nunnery . 
Oh , on my own account it is for Miss Brooke's sake I think her friends should try to use their influence . 
Well , Humphrey doesn't know yet . 
But when I tell him , you may depend on it he will say , Why not ? Casaubon is a good fellow and young young enough . 
These charitable people never know vinegar from wine till they have swallowed it and got the colic . 
However , if I were a man I should prefer Celia , especially when Dorothea was gone . 
The truth is , you have been courting one and have won the other . 
I can see that she admires you almost as much as a man expects to be admired . 
If it were any one but me who said so , you might think it exaggeration . 
Good by ! Sir James handed Mrs. Cadwallader to the phaeton , and then jumped on his horse . 
He was not going to renounce his ride because of his friend's unpleasant news only to ride the faster in some other direction than that of Tipton Grange . 
Her life was rurally simple , quite free from secrets either foul , dangerous , or otherwise important , and not consciously affected by the great affairs of the world . 
A town where such monsters abounded was hardly more than a sort of low comedy , which could not be taken account of in a well bred scheme of the universe . 
She was the diplomatist of Tipton and Freshitt , and for anything to happen in spite of her was an offensive irregularity . 
He would never have contradicted her , and when a woman is not contradicted , she has no motive for obstinacy in her absurdities . 
But now I wish her joy of her hair shirt . 
He had no sonnets to write , and it could not strike him agreeably that he was not an object of preference to the woman whom he had preferred . 
Already the knowledge that Dorothea had chosen Mr. Casaubon had bruised his attachment and relaxed its hold . 
Various feelings wrought in him the determination after all to go to the Grange to day as if nothing new had happened . 
Piacer e popone Vuol la sua stagione . 
Hence he determined to abandon himself to the stream of feeling , and perhaps was surprised to find what an exceedingly shallow rill it was . 
Nevertheless , he observed with pleasure that Miss Brooke showed an ardent submissive affection which promised to fulfil his most agreeable previsions of marriage . 
I hope you don't expect me to be naughty and stupid ? I expect you to be all that an exquisite young lady can be in every possible relation of life . 
Certainly it might be a great advantage if you were able to copy the Greek character , and to that end it were well to begin with a little reading . 
Dorothea seized this as a precious permission . 
Those provinces of masculine knowledge seemed to her a standing ground from which all truth could be seen more truly . 
And she had not reached that point of renunciation at which she would have been satisfier' with having a wise husband she wished , poor child , to be wise herself . 
Miss Brooke was certainly very naive with al her alleged cleverness . 
Celia , whose mind had never been thought too powerful , saw the emptiness of other people's pretensions much more readily . 
To have in general but little feeling , seems to be the only security against feeling too much on any particular occasion . 
Few scholars would have disliked teaching the alphabet under such circumstances . 
Mr. Brooke had no doubt on that point , and expressed himself with his usual strength upon it one day that he came into the library while the reading was going forward . 
Well , but now , Casaubon , such deep studies , classics , mathematics , that kind of thing , are too taxing for a woman too taxing , you know . 
Dorothea is learning to read the characters simply , said Mr. Casaubon , evading the question . 
She had the very considerate thought of saving my eyes . 
Ah , well , without understanding , you know that may not be so bad . 
A woman should be able to sit down and play you or sing you a good old English tune . 
That is what I like though I have heard most things been at the opera in Vienna Gluck , Mozart , everything of that sort . 
But I'm a conservative in music it's not like ideas , you know . 
I stick to the good old tunes . 
She smiled and looked up at her betrothed with grateful eyes . 
If he had always been asking her to play the Last Rose of Summer , she would have required much resignation . 
He says there is only an old harpsichord at Lowick , and it is covered with books . 
Ah , there you are behind Celia , my dear . 
Celia , now , plays very prettily , and is always ready to play . 
However , since Casaubon does not like it , you are all right . 
But it's a pity you should not have little recreations of that sort , Casaubon the bow always strung that kind of thing , you know will not do . 
I never could look on it in the light of a recreation to have my ears teased with measured noises , said Mr. Casaubon . 
A tune much iterated has the ridiculous effect of making the words in my mind perform a sort of minuet to keep time an effect hardly tolerable , I imagine , after boyhood . 
No but music of that sort I should enjoy , said Dorothea . 
When we were coming home from Lausanne my uncle took us to hear the great organ at Freiberg , and it made me sob . 
That kind of thing is not healthy , my dear , said Mr. Brooke . 
It is wonderful , though , he said to himself as he shuffled out of the room it is wonderful that she should have liked him . 
However , the match is good . 
I should have been travelling out of my brief to have hindered it , let Mrs. Cadwallader say what she will . 
He is pretty certain to be a bishop , is Casaubon . 
That was a very seasonable pamphlet of his on the Catholic Question a deanery at least . 
They owe him a deanery . 
Here is a mine of truth , which , however vigorously it may be worked , is likely to outlast our coal . 
But of Mr. Brooke I make a further remark perhaps less warranted by precedent namely , that if he had foreknown his speech , it might not have made any great difference . 
Oh , rescue her ! I am her brother now , And you her father . 
Every gentle maid Should have a guardian in each gentleman . 
On the day when he first saw them together in the light of his present knowledge , it seemed to him that he had not taken the affair seriously enough . 
Brooke was really culpable he ought to have hindered it . 
Who could speak to him ? Something might be done perhaps even now , at least to defer the marriage . 
On his way home he turned into the Rectory and asked for Mr. Cadwallader . 
Happily , the Rector was at home , and his visitor was shown into the study , where all the fishing tackle hung . 
But he himself was in a little room adjoining , at work with his turning apparatus , and he called to the baronet to join him there . 
The two were better friends than any other landholder and clergyman in the county a significant fact which was in agreement with the amiable expression of their faees . 
Well , how are you ? he said , showing a hand not quite fit to be grasped . 
Sorry I missed you before . 
Is there anything particular ? You look vexed . 
Sir James's brow had a little crease in it , a little depression of the eyebrow , which he seemed purposely to exaggerate as he answered . 
It is only this conduct of Brooke's . 
I really think somebody should speak to him . 
What ? meaning to stand ? said Mr. Cadwallader , going on with the arrangement of the reels which he had just been turning . 
I hardly think he means it . 
But where's the harm , if he likes it ? Any one who objects to Whiggery should be glad when the Whigs don't put up the strongest fellow . 
They won't overturn the Constitution with our friend Brooke's head for a battering ram . 
I mean his letting that blooming young girl marry Casaubon . 
What is the matter with Casaubon ? I see no harm in him if the girl likes him . 
She is too young to know what she likes . 
Her guardian ought to interfere . 
He ought not to allow the thing to be done in this headlong manner . 
I wonder a man like you , Cadwallader a man with daughters , can look at the affair with indifference and with such a heart as yours ! Do think seriously about it . 
I am not joking I am as serious as possible , said the Rector , with a provoking little inward laugh . 
You are as bad as Elinor . 
She has been wanting me to go and lecture Brooke and I have reminded her that her friends had a very poor opinion of the match she made when she married me . 
But look at Casaubon , said Sir James , indignantly . 
He must be fifty , and I don't believe he could ever have been much more than the shadow of a man . 
Look at his legs ! Confound you handsome young fellows ! you think of having it all your own way in the world . 
Tou don't under stand women . 
They don't admire you half so much as you admire yourselves . 
Elinor used to tell her sisters that she married me for my ugliness it was so various and amusing that it had quite conquered her prudence . 
You ! it was easy enough for a woman to love you . 
But this is no question of beauty . 
This was Sir James's strongest way of implying that he thought ill of a man's character . 
Why ? what do you know against him ? said the Rector laying down his reels , and putting his thumbs into his armholes with an air of attention . 
He did not usually find it easy to give his reasons it seemed to him strange that people should not know them without being told , since he only felt what was reasonable . 
At last he said Now , Cadwallader , has he got any heart ? Well , yes . 
I don't mean of the melting sort , but a sound kernel , THAT you may be sure of . 
He is very good to his poor relations pensions several of the women , and is educating a young fellow at a good deal of expense . 
Casaubon acts up to his sense of justice . 
His mother's sister made a bad match a Pole , I think lost herself at any rate was disowned by her family . 
If it had not been for that , Casaubon would not have had so much money by half . 
I believe he went himself to find out his cousins , and see what he could do for them . 
Every man would not ring so well as that , if you tried his metal . 
YOU would , Chettam but not every man . 
I don't know , said Sir James , coloring . 
I am not so sure of myself . 
He paused a moment , and then added , That was a right thing for Casaubon to do . 
But a man may wish to do what is right , and yet be a sort of parchment code . 
A woman may not be happy with him . 
And I think when a girl is so young as Miss Brooke is , her friends ought to interfere a little to hinder her from doing anything foolish . 
You laugh , because you fancy I have some feeling on my own account . 
But upon my honor , it is not that . 
I should feel just the same if I were Miss Brooke's brother or uncle . 
Well , but what should you do ? I should say that the marriage must not be decided on until she was of age . 
And depend upon it , in that case , it would never come off . 
I wish you saw it as I do I wish you would talk to Brooke about it . 
Sir James rose as he was finishing his sentence , for he saw Mrs. Cadwallader entering from the study . 
She held by the hand her youngest girl , about five years old , who immediately ran to papa , and was made comfortable on his knee . 
I hear what you are talking about , said the wife . 
But you will make no impression on Humphrey . 
As long as the fish rise to his bait , everybody is what he ought to be . 
It is a very good quality in a man to have a trout stream . 
I have done what I could I wash my hands of the marriage . 
In the first place , said the Rector , looking rather grave , it would be nonsensical to expect that I could convince Brooke , and make him act accordingly . 
Brooke is a very good fellow , but pulpy he will run into any mould , but he won't keep shape . 
He might keep shape long enough to defer the marriage , said Sir James . 
I don't care about his Xisuthrus and Fee fo fum and the rest but then he doesn't care about my fishing tackle . 
As to the line he took on the Catholic Question , that was unexpected but he has always been civil to me , and I don't see why I should spoil his sport . 
For anything I can tell , Miss Brooke may be happier with him than she would be with any other man . 
Humphrey ! I have no patience with you . 
You know you would rather dine under the hedge than with Casaubon alone . 
You have nothing to say to each other . 
What has that to do with Miss Brooke's marrying him ? She does not do it for my amusement . 
He has got no good red blood in his body , said Sir James . 
No. Somebody put a drop under a magnifying glass and it was all semicolons and parentheses , said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
Why does he not bring out his book , instead of marrying , said Sir James , with a disgust which he held warranted by the sound feeling of an English layman . 
Oh , he dreams footnotes , and they run away with all his brains . 
They say , when he was a little boy , he made an abstract of Hop o' my Thumb , and he has been making abstracts ever since . 
Ugh ! And that is the man Humphrey goes on saying that a woman may be happy with . 
Well , he is what Miss Brooke likes , said the Rector . 
I don't profess to understand every young lady's taste . 
But if she were your own daughter ? said Sir James . 
That would be a different affair . 
She is NOT my daughter , and I don't feel called upon to interfere . 
Casaubon is as good as most of us . 
He is a scholarly clergyman , and creditable to the cloth . 
Some Radical fellow speechifying at Middlemarch said Casaubon was the learned straw chopping incumbent , and Freke was the brick and mortar incumbent , and I was the angling incumbent . 
And upon my word , I don't see that one is worse or better than the other . 
The Rector ended with his silent laugh . 
He always saw the joke of any satire against himself . 
His conscience was large and easy , like the rest of him it did only what it could do without any trouble . 
Clearly , there would be no interference with Miss Brooke's marriage through Mr. Cadwallader and Sir James felt with some sadness that she was to have perfect liberty of misjudgment . 
It was a sign of his good disposition that he did not slacken at all in his intention of carrying out Dorothea's de . 
Doubtless this persistence was the best course for his own dignity but pride only helps us to be generous it never makes us so , any more than vanity makes us witty . 
An ancient land in ancient oracles Is called law thirsty all the struggle there Was after order and a perfect rule . 
Pray , where lie such lands now ? . 
Why , where they lay of old in human souls . 
Mr. Casaubon's behavior about settlements was highly satisfactory to Mr. Brooke , and the preliminaries of marriage rolled smoothly along , shortening the weeks of courtship . 
The betrothed bride must see her future home , and dictate any changes that she would like to have made there . 
A woman dictates before marriage in order that she may have an appetite for submission afterwards . 
And certainly , the mistakes that we male and female mortals make when we have our own way might fairly raise some wonder that we are so fond of it . 
On a gray but dry November morning Dorothea drove to Lowick in company with her uncle and Celia . 
Mr. Casaubon's home was the manor house . 
Close by , visible from some parts of the garden , was the little church , with the old parsonage opposite . 
In the beginning of his career , Mr. Casaubon had only held the living , but the death of his brother had put him in possession of the manor also . 
This was the happy side of the house , for the south and east looked rather melancholy even under the brightest morning . 
Oh dear ! Celia said to herself , I am sure Freshitt Hall would have been pleasanter than this . 
But the owners of Lowick apparently had not been travellers , and Mr. Casaubon's studies of the past were not carried on by means of such aids . 
Dorothea walked about the house with delightful emotion . 
All appeals to her taste she met gratefully , but saw nothing to alter . 
His efforts at exact courtesy and formal tenderness had no defect for her . 
She filled up all blanks with unmanifested perfections , interpreting him as she interpreted the works of Providence , and accounting for seeming discords by her own deafness to the higher harmonies . 
And there are many blanks left in the weeks of courtship which a loving faith fills with happy assurance . 
It is very kind of you to think of that , said Dorothea , but I assure you I would rather have all those matters decided for me . 
I shall be much happier to take everything as it is just as you have been used to have it , or as you will yourself choose it to be . 
I have no motive for wishing anything else . 
Oh , Dodo , said Celia , will you not have the bow windowed room up stairs ? Mr. Casaubon led the way thither . 
The bow window looked down the avenue of limes the furniture was all of a faded blue , and there were miniatures of ladies and gentlemen with powdered hair hanging in a group . 
A piece of tapestry over a door also showed a blue green world with a pale stag in it . 
The chairs and tables were thin legged and easy to upset . 
It was a room where one might fancy the ghost of a tight laced lady revisiting the scene of her embroidery . 
A light bookcase contained duodecimo volumes of polite literature in calf , completing the furniture . 
Yes , said Mr. Brooke , this would be a pretty room with some new hangings , sofas , and that sort of thing . 
No , uncle , said Dorothea , eagerly . 
Pray do not speak of altering anything . 
There are so many other things in the world that want altering I like to take these things as they are . 
And you like them as they are , don't you ? she added , looking at Mr. Casaubon . 
Perhaps this was your mother's room when she was young . 
It was , he said , with his slow bend of the head . 
This is your mother , said Dorothea , who had turned to examine the group of miniatures . 
It is like the tiny one you brought me only , I should think , a better portrait . 
And this one opposite , who is this ? Her elder sister . 
They were , like you and your sister , the only two children of their parents , who hang above them , you see . 
The sister is pretty , said Celia , implying that she thought less favorably of Mr. Casaubon's mother . 
It was a new open ing to Celia's imagination , that he came of a family who had all been young in their time the ladies wearing necklaces . 
It is a peculiar face , said Dorothea , looking closely . 
Those deep gray eyes rather near together and the delicate irregular nose with a sort of ripple in it and all the powdered curls hanging backward . 
Altogether it seems to me peculiar rather than pretty . 
There is not even a family likeness between her and your mother . 
No. And they were not alike in their lot . 
You did not mention her to me , said Dorothea . 
My aunt made an unfortunate marriage . 
The sun had lately pierced the gray , and the avenue of limes cast shadows . 
Shall we not walk in the garden now ? said Dorothea . 
And you would like to see the church , you know , said Mr. Brooke . 
It is a droll little church . 
It all lies in a nut shell . 
By the way , it will suit you , Dorothea for the cottages are like a row of alms houses little gardens , gilly flowers , that sort of thing . 
Yes , please , said Dorothea , looking at Mr. Casaubon , I should like to see all that . 
She had got nothing from him more graphic about the Lowick cottages than that they were not bad . 
They were soon on a gravel walk which led chiefly between grassy borders and clumps of trees , this being the nearest way to the church , Mr. Casaubon said . 
At the little gate leading into the churchyard there was a pause while Mr. Casaubon went to the parsonage close by to fetch a key . 
Is that astonishing , Celia ? There may be a young gardener , you know why not ? said Mr. Brooke . 
I told Casaubon he should change his gardener . 
No , not a gardener , said Celia a gentleman with a sketch book . 
He had light brown curls . 
I only saw his back . 
But he was quite young . 
The curate's son , perhaps , said Mr. Brooke . 
Ah , there is Casaubon again , and Tucker with him . 
He is going to introduce Tucker . 
You don't know Tucker yet . 
Mr. Tucker was the middle aged curate , one of the inferior clergy , who are usually not wanting in sons . 
But after the introduction , the conversation did not lead to any question about his family , and the startling apparition of youthfulness was forgotten by every one but Celia . 
, but the corners of his mouth were so unpleasant . 
The speckled fowls were so numerous that Mr. Brooke observed , Your farmers leave some barley for the women to glean , I see . 
The poor folks here might have a fowl in their pot , as the good French king used to wish for all his people . 
The French eat a good many fowls skinny fowls , you know . 
I think it was a very cheap wish of his , said Dorothea , indignantly . 
Are kings such monsters that a wish like that must be reckoned a royal virtue ? And if he wished them a skinny fowl , said Celia , that would not be nice . 
But perhaps he wished them to have fat fowls . 
Dorothea sank into silence on the way back to the house . 
Then , recurring to the future actually before her , she made a picture of more complete devotion to Mr. Casaubon's aims in which she would await new duties . 
Many such might reveal themselves to the higher knowledge gained by her in that companionship . 
I trust you are pleased with what you have seen . 
I am feeling something which is perhaps foolish and wrong , answered Dorothea , with her usual openness almost wishing that the people wanted more to be done for them here . 
I have known so few ways of making my life good for anything . 
Of course , my notions of usefulness must be narrow . 
I must learn new ways of helping people . 
Doubtless , said Mr. Casaubon . 
Each position has its corresponding duties . 
Yours , I trust , as the mistress of Lowick , will not leave any yearning unfulfilled . 
Indeed , I believe that , said Dorothea , earnestly . 
Do not suppose that I am sad . 
But , if you are not tired , we will take another way to the house than that by which we came . 
Dorothea was not at all tired , and a little circuit was made towards a fine yew tree , the chief hereditary glory of the grounds on this side of the house . 
As they approached it , a figure , conspicuous on a dark background of evergreens , was seated on a bench , sketching the old tree . 
The young man had laid down his sketch book and risen . 
His bushy light brown curls , as well as his youthfulness , identified him at once with Celia's apparition . 
Dorothea , let me introduce to you my cousin , Mr. Ladislaw . 
Will , this is Miss Brooke . 
You are an artist , I see , said Mr. Brooke , taking up the sketch book and turning it over in his unceremonious fashion . 
No , I only sketch a little . 
There is nothing fit to be seen there , said young Ladislaw , coloring , perhaps with temper rather than modesty . 
Oh , come , this is a nice bit , now . 
I did a little in this way myself at one time , you know . 
Look here , now this is what I call a nice thing , done with what we used to call BRIO . 
Mr. Brooke held out towards the two girls a large colored sketch of stony ground and trees , with a pool . 
I am no judge of these things , said Dorothea , not coldly , but with an eager deprecation of the appeal to her . 
You know , uncle , I never see the beauty of those pictures which you say are so much praised . 
They are a language I do not understand . 
I suppose there is some relation between pictures and nature which I am too ignorant to feel just as you see what a Greek sentence stands for which means nothing to me . 
But you took to drawing plans you don't understand morbidezza , and that kind of thing . 
As it was , he took her words for a covert judgment , and was certain that she thought his sketch detestable . 
There was too much cleverness in her apology she was laughing both at her uncle and himself . 
But what a voice ! It was like the voice of a soul that had once lived in an AEolian harp . 
This must be one of Nature's inconsistencies . 
There could be no sort of passion in a girl who would marry Casaubon . 
But he turned from her , and bowed his thanks for Mr. Brooke's invitation . 
We will turn over my Italian engravings together , continued that good natured man . 
I have no end of those things , that I have laid by for years . 
One gets rusty in this part of the country , you know . 
Not you , Casaubon you stick to your studies but my best ideas get undermost out of use , you know . 
You clever young men must guard against indolence . 
I was too indolent , you know else I might have been anywhere at one time . 
That is a seasonable admonition , said Mr. Casaubon but now we will pass on to the house , lest the young ladies should be tired of standing . 
Mr. Will Ladislaw's sense of the ludicrous lit up his features very agreeably it was the pure enjoyment of comicality , and had no mixture of sneering and self exaltation . 
What is your nephew going to do with himself , Casaubon ? said Mr. Brooke , as they went on . 
My cousin , you mean not my nephew . 
Yes , yes , cousin . 
But in the way of a career , you know . 
The answer to that question is painfully doubtful . 
On leaving Rugby he declined to go to an English university , where I would gladly have placed him , and chose what I must consider the anomalous course of studying at Heidelberg . 
And now he wants to go abroad again , without any special object , save the vague purpose of what he calls culture , preparation for he knows not what . 
He declines to choose a profession . 
He has no means but what you furnish , I suppose . 
I have always given him and his friends reason to understand that I would furnish in moderation what was necessary for providing him with a scholarly education , and launching him respectably . 
I am therefore bound to fulfil the expectation so raised , said Mr. Casaubon , putting his conduct in the light of mere rectitude a trait of delicacy which Dorothea noticed with admiration . 
He has a thirst for travelling perhaps he may turn out a Bruce or a Mungo Park , said Mr. Brooke . 
I had a notion of that myself at one time . 
Well , there is something in that , you know , said Mr. Brooke , who had certainly an impartial mind . 
Perhaps he has conscientious scruples founded on his own unfitness , said Dorothea , who was interesting herself in finding a favorable explanation . 
Because the law and medicine should be very serious professions to undertake , should they not ? People's lives and fortunes depend on them . 
I have pointed to my own manuscript volumes , which represent the toil of years preparatory to a work not yet accomplished . 
To careful reasoning of this kind he replies by calling himself Pegasus , and every form of prescribed work harness . 
She was surprised to find that Mr. Casaubon could say something quite amusing . 
Well , you know , he may turn out a Byron , a Chatterton , a Churchill that sort of thing there's no telling , said Mr. Brooke . 
I shall let him be tried by the test of freedom . 
That is very kind of you , said Dorothea , looking up at Mr. Casaubon with delight . 
After all , people may really have in them some vocation which is not quite plain to themselves , may they not ? They may seem idle and weak because they are growing . 
We should be very patient with each other , I think . 
You mean that I am very impatient , Celia . 
Yes when people don't do and say just what you like . 
Celia had become less afraid of saying things to Dorothea since this engagement cleverness seemed to her more pitiable than ever . 
CHAPTER X. He had catched a great cold , had he had no other clothes to wear than the skin of a bear not yet killed . 
Indeed , Will had declined to fix on any more precise destination than the entire area of Europe . 
The attitudes of receptivity are various , and Will had sincerely tried many of them . 
Nothing greatly original had resulted from these measures and the effects of the opium had convinced him that there was an entire dissimilarity between his constitution and De Quincey's . 
The superadded circumstance which would evolve the genius had not yet come the universe had not yet beckoned . 
Even Caesar's fortune at one time was , but a grand presentiment . 
We know what a masquerade all development is , and what effective shapes may be disguised in helpless embryos . 
In fact , the world is full of hopeful analogies and handsome dubious eggs called possibilities . 
Let him start for the Continent , then , without our pronouncing on his future . 
Among all forms of mistake , prophecy is the most gratuitous . 
But at present this caution against a too hasty judgment interests me more in relation to Mr. Casaubon than to his young cousin . 
Moreover , if Mr. Casaubon , speaking for himself , has rather a chilling rhetoric , it is not therefore certain that there is no good work or fine feeling in him . 
And his was that worst loneliness which would shrink from sympathy . 
All her eagerness for acquirement lay within that full current of sympathetic motive in which her ideas and impulses were habitually swept along . 
The words I should feel more at liberty grated on Dorothea . 
For the first time in speaking to Mr. Casaubon she colored from annoyance . 
I beg you will not refer to this again , said Dorothea , rather haughtily . 
But immediately she feared that she was wrong , and turning towards him she laid her hand on his , adding in a different tone , Pray do not be anxious about me . 
I shall have so much to think of when I am alone . 
And Tantripp will be a sufficient companion , just to take care of me . 
I could not bear to have Celia she would be miserable . 
It was time to dress . 
Mr. Casaubon's words had been quite reasonable , yet they had brought a vague instantaneous sense of aloofness on his part . 
Surely I am in a strangely selfish weak state of mind , she said to herself . 
Mr. Bulstrode , the banker , seemed to be addressed , but that gentleman disliked coarseness and profanity , and merely bowed . 
Yes , but not my style of woman I like a woman who lays herself out a little more to please us . 
There should be a little filigree about a woman something of the coquette . 
A man likes a sort of challenge . 
The more of a dead set she makes at you the better . 
There's some truth in that , said Mr. Standish , disposed to be genial . 
And , by God , it's usually the way with them . 
I suppose it answers some wise ends Providence made them so , eh , Bulstrode ? I should be disposed to refer coquetry to another source , said Mr. Bulstrode . 
I should rather refer it to the devil . 
And I like them blond , with a certain gait , and a swan neck . 
Between ourselves , the mayor's daughter is more to my taste than Miss Brooke or Miss Celia either . 
If I were a marrying man I should choose Miss Vincy before either of them . 
Well , make up , make up , said Mr. Standish , jocosely you see the middle aged fellows early the day . 
Mr. Chichely shook his head with much meaning he was not going to incur the certainty of being accepted by the woman he would choose . 
Where can all the strength of those medicines go , my dear ? said the mild but stately dowager , turning to Mrs. Cadwallader reflectively , when Mrs. Renfrew's attention was called away . 
It strengthens the disease , said the Rector's wife , much too well born not to be an amateur in medicine . 
Then she ought to take medicines that would reduce reduce the disease , you know , if you are right , my dear . 
And I think what you say is reasonable . 
You have two sorts of potatoes , fed on the same soil . 
One of them grows more and more watery Ah ! like this poor Mrs. Renfrew that is what I think . 
Dropsy ! There is no swelling yet it is inward . 
I should say she ought to take drying medicines , shouldn't you ? or a dry hot air bath . 
Many things might be tried , of a drying nature . 
Let her try a certain person's pamphlets , said Mrs. Cadwallader in an undertone , seeing the gentlemen enter . 
He does not want drying . 
Who , my dear ? said Lady Chettam , a charming woman , not so quick as to nullify the pleasure of explanation . 
He has certainly been drying up faster since the engagement the flame of passion , I suppose . 
I should think he is far from having a good constitution , said Lady Chettam , with a still deeper undertone . 
And then his studies so very dry , as you say . 
Really , by the side of Sir James , he looks like a death's head skinned over for the occasion . 
Mark my words in a year from this time that girl will hate him . 
She looks up to him as an oracle now , and by and by she will be at the other extreme . 
All flightiness ! How very shocking ! I fear she is headstrong . 
There could not be anything worse than that , said Lady Chettam , with so vivid a conception of the physic that she seemed to have learned something exact about Mr. Casaubon's disadvantages . 
However , James will hear nothing against Miss Brooke . 
He says she is the mirror of women still . 
That is a generous make believe of his . 
Depend upon it , he likes little Celia better , and she appreciates him . 
I hope you like my little Celia ? Certainly she is fonder of geraniums , and seems more docile , though not so fine a figure . 
But we were talking of physic . 
Tell me about this new young surgeon , Mr. Lydgate . 
I am told he is wonderfully clever he certainly looks it a fine brow indeed . 
I heard him talking to Humphrey . 
Mr. Brooke says he is one of the Lydgates of Northumberland , really well connected . 
One does not expect it in a practitioner of that kind . 
For my own part , I like a medical man more on a footing with the servants they are often all the cleverer . 
I assure you I found poor Hicks's judgment unfailing I never knew him wrong . 
He was coarse and butcher like , but he knew my constitution . 
It was a loss to me his going off so suddenly . 
I believe he is a sort of philanthropist , so Brooke is sure to take him up . 
James , said Lady Chettam when her son came near , bring Mr. Lydgate and introduce him to me . 
I want to test him . 
The affable dowager declared herself delighted with this opportunity of making Mr. Lydgate's acquaintance , having heard of his success in treating fever on a new plan . 
Mr. Lydgate had the medical accomplishment of looking perfectly grave whatever nonsense was talked to him , and his dark steady eyes gave him impressiveness as a listener . 
He was as little as possible like the lamented Hicks , especially in a certain careless refinement about his toilet and utterance . 
Yet Lady Chettam gathered much confidence in him . 
He did not approve of a too lowering system , including reckless cupping , nor , on the other hand , of incessant port wine and bark . 
He said I think so with an air of so much deference accompanying the insight of agreement , that she formed the most cordial opinion of his talents . 
I am quite pleased with your protege , she said to Mr. Brooke before going away . 
My protege ? dear me ! who is that ? said Mr. Brooke . 
This young Lydgate , the new doctor . 
He seems to me to understand his profession admirably . 
Oh , Lydgate ! he is not my protege , you know only I knew an uncle of his who sent me a letter about him . 
However , I think he is likely to be first rate has studied in Paris , knew Broussais has ideas , you know wants to raise the profession . 
Hang it , do you think that is quite sound ? upsetting The old treatment , which has made Englishmen what they re ? said Mr. Standish . 
I hope to find good reason for confiding the new hospital to his management . 
But I am not going to hand money out of my purse to have experiments tried on me . 
I like treatment that has been tested a little . 
Well , you know , Standish , every dose you take is an experiment an experiment , you know , said Mr. Brooke , nodding towards the lawyer . 
Oh , if you talk in that sense ! said Mr. Standish , with as much disgust at such non legal quibbling as a man can well betray towards a valuable client . 
It's an uncommonly dangerous thing to be left without any padding against the shafts of disease , as somebody said , and I think it a very good expression myself . 
Mr. Lydgate , of course , was out of hearing . 
She is a good creature that fine girl but a little too earnest , he thought . 
It is troublesome to talk to such women . 
Evidently Miss Brooke was not Mr. Lydgate's style of woman any more than Mr. Chichely's . 
But Lydgate was less ripe , and might possibly have experience before him which would modify his opinion as to the most excellent things in woman . 
Miss Brooke , however , was not again seen by either of these gentlemen under her maiden name . 
Not long after that dinner party she had become Mrs. Casaubon , and was on her way to Rome . 
That is what a woman ought to be she ought to produce the effect of exquisite music . 
Plain women he regarded as he did the other severe facts of life , to be faced with philosophy and investigated by science . 
Lydgate believed that he should not marry for several years not marry until he had trodden out a good clear path for himself away from the broad road which was quite ready made . 
He took a wife , as we have seen , to adorn the remaining quadrant of his course , and be a little moon that would cause hardly a calculable perturbation . 
But Lydgate was young , poor , ambitious . 
To his taste , guided by a single conversation , here was the point on which Miss Brooke would be found wanting , notwithstanding her undeniable beauty . 
She did not look at things from the proper feminine angle . 
Destiny stands by sarcastic with our dramatis personae folded in her hand . 
Settlers , too , came from distant counties , some with an alarming novelty of skill , others with an offensive advantage in cunning . 
But these things made only part of her charm . 
We cannot help the way in which people speak of us , and probably if Mrs. Lemon had undertaken to describe Juliet or Imogen , these heroines would not have seemed poetical . 
The first vision of Rosamond would have been enough with most judges to dispel any prejudice excited by Mrs. Lemon's praise . 
, he had many patients among their connections and acquaintances . 
Mr. Vincy was more inclined to general good fellowship than to taking sides , but there was no need for him to be hasty in making any new man acquaintance . 
Rosamond silently wished that her father would invite Mr. Lydgate . 
But she would not have chosen to mention her wish to her father and he , for his part , was in no hurry on the subject . 
An alderman about to be mayor must by and by enlarge his dinner parties , but at present there were plenty of guests at his well spread table . 
less disagreeable than getting up when he was called . 
Knock at Mr. Fred's door again , Pritchard , and tell him it has struck half past ten . 
Mamma , said Rosamond , when Fred comes down I wish you would not let him have red herrings . 
I cannot bear the smell of them all over the house at this hour of the morning . 
Oh , my dear , you are so hard on your brothers ! It is the only fault I have to find with you . 
You are the sweetest temper in the world , but you are so tetchy with your brothers . 
Not tetchy , mamma you never hear me speak in an unladylike way . 
Well , but you want to deny them things . 
Oh , my dear , you must allow for young men . 
Be thankful if they have good hearts . 
A woman must learn to put up with little things . 
You will be married some day . 
Not to any one who is like Fred . 
Don't decry your own brother , my dear . 
Few young men have less against them , although he couldn't take his degree I'm sure I can't understand why , for he seems to me most clever . 
And you know yourself he was thought equal to the best society at college . 
So particular as you are , my dear , I wonder you are not glad to have such a gentlemanly young man for a brother . 
You are always finding fault with Bob because he is not Fred . 
Oh no , mamma , only because he is Bob . 
Well , my dear , you will not find any Middlemarch young man who has not something against him . 
But here Rosamond's face broke into a smile which suddenly revealed two dimples . 
She herself thought unfavorably of these dimples and smiled little in general society . 
But I shall not marry any Middlemarch young man . 
Excuse me , mamma I wish you would not say , the pick of them . 
Why , what else are they ? I mean , mamma , it is rather a vulgar expression . 
Very likely , my dear I never was a good speaker . 
What should I say ? The best of them . 
Why , that seems just as plain and common . 
If I had had time to think , I should have said , the most superior young men . 
But with your education you must know . 
Whether it's right to say superior young men , said Mrs. Vincy , ringing the bell . 
Oh , there are so many superior teas and sugars now . 
Superior is getting to be shopkeepers' slang . 
Are you beginning to dislike slang , then ? said Rosamond , with mild gravity . 
All choice of words is slang . 
There is correct English that is not slang . 
I beg your pardon correct English is the slang of prigs who write history and essays . 
And the strongest slang of all is the slang of poets . 
You will say anything , Fred , to gain your point . 
Well , tell me whether it is slang or poetry to call an ox a leg plaiter . 
Of course you can call it poetry if you like . 
Aha , Miss Rosy , you don't know Homer from slang . 
I shall invent a new game I shall write bits of slang and poetry on slips , and give them to you to separate . 
Dear me , how amusing it is to hear young people talk ! said Mrs. Vincy , with cheerful admiration . 
Should you like eggs , sir ? Eggs , no ! Bring me a grilled bone . 
Really , Fred , said Rosamond , when the servant had left the room , if you must have hot things for breakfast , I wish you would come down earlier . 
You can get up at six o'clock to go out hunting I cannot understand why you find it so difficult to get up on other mornings . 
That is your want of understanding , Rosy . 
I can get up to go hunting because I like it . 
I cannot see why brothers are to make themselves disagreeable , any more than sisters . 
I don't make myself disagreeable it is you who find me so . 
Disagreeable is a word that describes your feelings and not my actions . 
I think it describes the smell of grilled bone . 
It describes a sensation in your little nose associated with certain finicking notions which are the classics of Mrs. Lemon's school . 
Look at my mother you don't see her objecting to everything except what she does herself . 
She is my notion of a pleasant woman . 
Bless you both , my dears , and don't quarrel , said Mrs. Vincy , with motherly cordiality . 
Come , Fred , tell us all about the new doctor . 
How is your uncle pleased with him ? Pretty well , I think . 
He asks Lydgate all sorts of questions and then screws up his face while he hears the answers , as if they were pinching his toes . 
Ah , here comes my grilled bone . 
But how came you to stay out so late , my dear ? You only said you were going to your uncle's . 
Oh , I dined at Plymdale's . 
And what do you think of him ? He is very gentlemanly , I suppose . 
They say he is of excellent family his relations quite county people . 
There was a Lydgate at John's who spent no end of money . 
I find this man is a second cousin of his . 
But rich men may have very poor devils for second cousins . 
It always makes a difference , though , to be of good family , said Rosamond , with a tone of decision which showed that she had thought on this subject . 
Rosamond felt that she might have been happier if she had not been the daughter of a Middlemarch manufacturer . 
She disliked anything which reminded her that her mother's father had been an innkeeper . 
Certainly any one remembering the fact might think that Mrs. Vincy had the air of a very handsome good humored landlady , accustomed to the most capricious orders of gentlemen . 
I thought it was odd his name was Tertius , said the bright faced matron , but of course it's a name in the family . 
But now , tell us exactly what sort of man he is . 
Oh , tallish , dark , clever talks well rather a prig , I think . 
I never can make out what you mean by a prig , said Rosamond . 
A fellow who wants to show that he has opinions . 
Why , my dear , doctors must have opinions , said Mrs. Vincy . 
What are they there for else ? Yes , mother , the opinions they are paid for . 
But a prig is a fellow who is always making you a present of his opinions . 
I suppose Mary Garth admires Mr. Lydgate , said Rosamond , not without a touch of innuendo . 
Really , I can't say . 
said Fred , rather glumly , as he left the table , and taking up a novel which he had brought down with him , threw himself into an arm chair . 
If you are jealous of her , go oftener to Stone Court yourself and eclipse her . 
I wish you would not be so vulgar , Fred . 
If you have finished , pray ring the bell . 
It is true , though what your brother says , Rosamond , Mrs. Vincy began , when the servant had cleared the table . 
It is a thousand pities you haven't patience to go and see your uncle more , so proud of you as he is , and wanted you to live with him . 
There's no knowing what he might have done for you as well as for Fred . 
God knows , I'm fond of having you at home with me , but I can part with my children for their good . 
And now it stands to reason that your uncle Featherstone will do something for Mary Garth . 
Mary Garth can bear being at Stone Court , because she likes that better than being a governess , said Rosamond , folding up her work . 
I would rather not have anything left to me if I must earn it by enduring much of my uncle's cough and his ugly relations . 
And I have no ill will toward's Mary Garth , but there's justice to be thought of . 
And Mr. Featherstone's first wife brought him no money , as my sister did . 
Her nieces and nephews can't have so much claim as my sister's . 
And I must say I think Mary Garth a dreadful plain girl more fit for a governess . 
Every one would not agree with you there , mother , said Fred , who seemed to be able to read and listen too . 
But I shall leave you to your studies , my dear for I must go and do some shopping . 
Fred's studies are not very deep , said Rosamond , rising with her mamma , he is only reading a novel . 
Well , well , by and by he'll go to his Latin and things , said Mrs. Vincy , soothingly , stroking her son's head . 
There's a fire in the smoking room on purpose . 
It's your father's wish , you know Fred , my dear and I always tell him you will be good , and go to college again to take your degree . 
Fred drew his mother's hand down to his lips , but said nothing . 
I suppose you are not going out riding to day ? said Rosamond , lingering a little after her mamma was gone . 
No why ? Papa says I may have the chestnut to ride now . 
You can go with me to morrow , if you like . 
Only I am going to Stone Court , remember . 
I want to ride so much , it is indifferent to me where we go . 
Rosamond really wished to go to Stone Court , of all other places . 
Pray do not ask me this morning . 
Why not this morning ? Really , Fred , I wish you would leave off playing the flute . 
A man looks very silly playing the flute . 
And you play so out of tune . 
When next any one makes love to you , Miss Rosamond , I will tell him how obliging you are . 
He had more tow on his distaffe Than Gerveis knew . 
It was not the less agreeable an object in the distance for the cluster of pinnacled corn ricks which balanced the fine row of walnuts on the right . 
Presently it was possible to discern something that might be a gig on the circular drive before the front door . 
Dear me , said Rosamond , I hope none of my uncle's horrible relations are there . 
That is Mrs. Waule's gig the last yellow gig left , I should think . 
When I see Mrs. Waule in it , I understand how yellow can have been worn for mourning . 
That gig seems to me more funereal than a hearse . 
But then Mrs. Waule always has black crape on . 
How does she manage it , Rosy ? Her friends can't always be dying . 
I don't know at all . 
And she is not in the least evangelical , said Rosamond , reflectively , as if that religious point of view would have fully accounted for perpetual crape . 
And , not poor , she added , after a moment's pause . 
No , by George ! They are as rich as Jews , those Waules and Featherstones I mean , for people like them , who don't want to spend anything . 
And yet they hang about my uncle like vultures , and are afraid of a farthing going away from their side of the family . 
But I believe he hates them all . 
that she did not wish to enjoy their good opinion . 
The doctors can't master that cough , brother . 
It's just like what I have for I'm your own sister , constitution and everything . 
But , as I was saying , it's a pity Mrs. Vincy's family can't be better conducted . 
Tchah ! you said nothing o' the sort . 
You said somebody had made free with my name . 
And no more than can be proved , if what everybody says is true . 
My brother Solomon tells me it's the talk up and down in Middlemarch how unsteady young Vincy is , and has been forever gambling at billiards since home he came . 
Nonsense ! What's a game at billiards ? It's a good gentlemanly game and young Vincy is not a clodhopper . 
If your son John took to billiards , now , he'd make a fool of himself . 
For they say he's been losing money for years , though nobody would think so , to see him go coursing and keeping open house as they do . 
And I've heard say Mr. Bulstrode condemns Mrs. Vincy beyond anything for her flightiness , and spoiling her children so . 
! What's Bulstrode to me ? I don't bank with him . 
But indulging your children is one thing , and finding money to pay their debts is another . 
And it's openly said that young Vincy has raised money on his expectations . 
I don't say what expectations . 
Miss Garth hears me , and is welcome to tell again . 
I know young people hang together . 
No , thank you , Mrs. Waule , said Mary Garth . 
I dislike hearing scandal too much to wish to repeat it . 
Mr. Featherstone rubbed the knob of his stick and made a brief convulsive show of laughter , which had much the same genuineness as an old whist player's chuckle over a bad hand . 
Still looking at the fire , he said And who pretends to say Fred Vincy hasn't got expectations ? Such a fine , spirited fellow is like enough to have 'em . 
There was a slight pause before Mrs. Waule replied , and when she did so , her voice seemed to be slightly moistened with tears , though her face was still dry . 
Come , out with it , Jane ! said Mr. Featherstone , looking at her . 
And he had it from most undeniable authority , and not one , but many . 
Stuff and nonsense ! I don't believe a word of it . 
It's all a got up story . 
Go to the window , missy I thought I heard a horse . 
See if the doctor's coming . 
But Solomon makes it no secret what he means to do . 
Before Mr. Featherstone's cough was quiet , Rosamond entered , bearing up her riding habit with much grace . 
Heyday , miss ! he said at last , you have a fine color . 
Where's Fred ? Seeing about the horses . 
He will be in presently . 
Sit down , sit down . 
Mrs. Waule , you'd better go . 
Indeed , she herself was accustomed to think that entire freedom from the necessity of behaving agreeably was included in the Almighty's intentions about families . 
She rose slowly without any sign of resentment , and said in her usual muffled monotone , Brother , I hope the new doctor will be able to do something for you . 
Solomon says there's great talk of his cleverness . 
I'm sure it's my wish you should be spared . 
And there's none more ready to nurse you than your own sister and your own nieces , if you'd only say the word . 
There's Rebecca , and Joanna , and Elizabeth , you know . 
Ay , ay , I remember you'll see I've remembered 'em all all dark and ugly . 
They'd need have some money , eh ? There never was any beauty in the women of our family but the Featherstones have always had some money , and the Waules too . 
A warm man was Waule . 
Ay , ay money's a good egg and if you 've got money to leave behind you , lay it in a warm nest . 
Good by , Mrs. Waule . 
Here Mr. Featherstone pulled at both sides of his wig as if he wanted to deafen himself , and his sister went away ruminating on this oracular speech of his . 
But we are frightened at much that is not strictly conceivable . 
When Fred came in the old man eyed him with a peculiar twinkle , which the younger had often had reason to interpret as pride in the satisfactory details of his appearance . 
You two misses go away , said Mr. Featherstone . 
I want to speak to Fred . 
Come into my room , Rosamond , you will not mind the cold for a little while , said Mary . 
, so that they had many memories in common , and liked very well to talk in private . 
Indeed , this tete a tete was one of Rosamond's objects in coming to Stone Court . 
Old Featherstone would not begin the dialogue till the door had been closed . 
He was not a man to feel any strong moral indignation even on account of trespasses against himself . 
It was natural that others should want to get an advantage over him , but then , he was a little too cunning for them . 
But I can alter my will yet . 
He had not borrowed money in that way , for excellent reasons . 
about his prospect of getting Featherstone's land as a future means of paying present debts . 
I don't know what you refer to , sir . 
I have certainly never borrowed any money on such an insecurity . 
No , sir , it's you must explain . 
I can alter my will yet , let me tell you . 
I'm of sound mind can reckon compound interest in my head , and remember every fool's name as well as I could twenty years ago . 
What the deuce ? I'm under eighty . 
I say , you must contradict this story . 
But I contradict it again . 
The story is a silly lie . 
Nonsense ! you must bring dockiments . 
Name the authority , and make him name the man of whom I borrowed the money , and then I can disprove the story . 
It's pretty good authority , I think a man who knows most of what goes on in Middlemarch . 
It's that fine , religious , charitable uncle o' yours . 
Come now ! Here Mr. Featherstone had his peculiar inward shake which signified merriment . 
Mr. Bulstrode ? Who else , eh ? Then the story has grown into this lie out of some sermonizing words he may have let fall about me . 
Do they pretend that he named the man who lent me the money ? If there is such a man , depend upon it Bulstrode knows him . 
But , supposing you only tried to get the money lent , and didn't get it Bulstrode 'ud know that too . 
You bring me a writing from Bulstrode to say he doesn't believe you've ever promised to pay your debts out o' my land . 
Come now ! Mr. Featherstone's face required its whole scale of grimaces as a muscular outlet to his silent triumph in the soundness of his faculties . 
Fred felt himself to be in a disgusting dilemma . 
You must be joking , sir . 
Mr. Bulstrode , like other men , believes scores of things that are not true , and he has a prejudice against me . 
I could easily get him to write that he knew no facts in proof of the report you speak of , though it might lead to unpleasantness . 
But I could hardly ask him to write down what he believes or does not believe about me . 
Fred paused an instant , and then added , in politic appeal to his uncle's vanity , That is hardly a thing for a gentleman to ask . 
But he was disappointed in the result . 
Ay , I know what you mean . 
You'd sooner offend me than Bulstrode . 
And what's he ? he's got no land hereabout that ever I heard tell of . 
A speckilating fellow ! He may come down any day , when the devil leaves off backing him . 
And that's what his religion means he wants God A'mighty to come in . 
That's nonsense ! There's one thing I made out pretty clear when I used to go to church and it's this God A'mighty sticks to the land . 
He promises land , and He gives land , and He makes chaps rich with corn and cattle . 
But you take the other side . 
You like Bulstrode and speckilation better than Featherstone and land . 
I beg your pardon , sir , said Fred , rising , standing with his back to the fire and beating his boot with his whip . 
I like neither Bulstrode nor speculation . 
He spoke rather sulkily , feeling himself stalemated . 
Well , well , you can do without me , that's pretty clear , said old Featherstone , secretly disliking the possibility that Fred would show himself at all independent . 
You neither want a bit of land to make a squire of you instead of a starving parson , nor a lift of a hundred pound by the way . 
It's all one to me . 
I can make five codicils if I like , and I shall keep my bank notes for a nest egg . 
It's all one to me . 
I am not ungrateful , sir . 
I never meant to show disregard for any kind intentions you might have towards me . 
Come now ! That's a bargain . 
Here , give me your arm . 
I'll try and walk round the room . 
Read me the names o' the books . 
Come now ! you're a college man . 
Fred gave him the titles . 
What did missy want with more books ? What must you be bringing her more books for ? They amuse her , sir . 
She is very fond of reading . 
A little too fond , said Mr. Featherstone , captiously . 
She was for reading when she sat with me . 
But I put a stop to that . 
She's got the newspaper to read out loud . 
That's enough for one day , I should think . 
I can't abide to see her reading to herself . 
You mind and not bring her any more books , do you hear ? Yes , sir , I hear . 
Fred had received this order before , and had secretly disobeyed it . 
He intended to disobey it again . 
Ring the bell , said Mr. Featherstone I want missy to come down . 
Rosamond and Mary had been talking faster than their male friends . 
Only a few children in Middlemarch looked blond by the side of Rosamond , and the slim figure displayed by her riding habit had delicate undulations . 
In fact , most men in Middlemarch , except her brothers , held that Miss Vincy was the best girl in the world , and some called her an angel . 
Rembrandt would have painted her with pleasure , and would have made her broad features look out of the canvas with intelligent honesty . 
Oh no ! No one thinks of your appearance , you are so sensible and useful , Mary . 
Beauty is of very little consequence in reality , said Rosamond , turning her head towards Mary , but with eyes swerving towards the new view of her neck in the glass . 
You mean my beauty , said Mary , rather sardonically . 
Rosamond thought , Poor Mary , she takes the kindest things ill . 
It is a wretched life for you . 
No , said Mary , curtly , with a little toss of her head . 
I think my life is pleasanter than your Miss Morgan's . 
Yes but Miss Morgan is so uninteresting , and not young . 
She is interesting to herself , I suppose and I am not at all sure that everything gets easier as one gets older . 
No , said Rosamond , reflectively one wonders what such people do , without any prospect . 
To be sure , there is religion as a support . 
But , she added , dimpling , it is very different with you , 'Mary . 
You may have an offer . 
Has any one told you he means to make me one ? Of course not . 
I mean , there is a gentleman who may fall in love with you , seeing you almost every day . 
A certain change in Mary's face was chiefly determined by the resolve not to show any change . 
Does that always make people fall in love ? she answered , carelessly it seems to me quite as often a reason for detesting each other . 
Not when they are interesting and agreeable . 
I hear that Mr. Lydgate is both . 
Oh , Mr. Lydgate ! said Mary , with an unmistakable lapse into indifference . 
You want to know something about him , she added , not choosing to indulge Rosamond's indirectness . 
Merely , how you like him . 
There is no question of liking at present . 
My liking always wants some little kindness to kindle it . 
I am not magnanimous enough to like people who speak to me without seeming to see me . 
Is he so haughty ? said Rosamond , with heightened satisfaction . 
You know that he is of good family ? No he did not give that as a reason . 
Mary ! you are the oddest girl . 
But what sort of looking man is he ? Describe him to me . 
But you will see him . 
You know this is about the time of his visits . 
Rosamond blushed a little , but said , meditatively , I rather like a haughty manner . 
I cannot endure a rattling young man . 
Haughtiness is not conceit I call Fred conceited . 
I wish no one said any worse of him . 
He should be more careful . 
Mrs. Waule has been telling uncle that Fred is very unsteady . 
Mary spoke from a girlish impulse which got the better of her judgment . 
There was a vague uneasiness associated with the word unsteady which she hoped Rosamond might say something to dissipate . 
But she purposely abstained from mentioning Mrs. Waule's more special insinuation . 
Oh , Fred is horrid ! said Rosamond . 
She would not have allowed herself so unsuitable a word to any one but Mary . 
What do you mean by horrid ? He is so idle , and makes papa so angry , and says he will not take orders . 
I think Fred is quite right . 
How can you say he is quite right , Mary ? I thought you had more sense of religion . 
He is not fit to be a clergyman . 
But he ought to be fit . 
Well , then , he is not what he ought to be . 
I know some other people who are in the same case . 
But no one approves of them . 
I should not like to marry a clergyman but there must be clergymen . 
It does not follow that Fred must be one . 
Then I wonder you can defend Fred , said Rosamond , inclined to push this point . 
I don't defend him , said Mary , laughing I would defend any parish from having him for a clergyman . 
But of course if he were a clergyman , he must be different . 
Yes , he would be a great hypocrite and he is not that yet . 
It is of no use saying anything to you , Mary . 
You always take Fred's part . 
Why should I not take his part ? said Mary , lighting up . 
He is the only person who takes the least trouble to oblige me . 
You make me feel very uncomfortable , Mary , said Rosamond , with her gravest mildness I would not tell mamma for the world . 
What would you not tell her ? said Mary , angrily . 
Pray do not go into a rage , Mary , said Rosamond , mildly as ever . 
If your mamma is afraid that Fred will make me an offer , tell her that I would not marry him if he asked me . 
But he is not going to do so , that I am aware . 
He certainly never has asked me . 
Mary , you are always so violent . 
And you are always so exasperating . 
I ? What can you blame me for ? Oh , blameless people are always the most exasperating . 
There is the bell I think we must go down . 
I did not mean to quarrel , said Rosamond , putting on her hat . 
Quarrel ? Nonsense we have not quarrelled . 
If one is not to get into a rage sometimes , what is the good of being friends ? Am I to repeat what you have said ? Just as you please . 
I never say what I am afraid of having repeated . 
But let us go down . 
This hard headed old Overreach approved of the sentimental song , as the suitable garnish for girls , and also as fundamentally fine , sentiment being the right thing for a song . 
Mr. Featherstone was still applauding the last performance , and assuring missy that her voice was as clear as a blackbird's , when Mr. Lydgate's horse passed the window . 
But Mary from some cause looked rather out of temper . 
Miss Rosy has been singing me a song you've nothing to say against that , eh , doctor ? said Mr. Featherstone . 
I like it better than your physic . 
Fred , we must really go . 
Very good , said Fred , who had his own reasons for not being in the best spirits , and wanted to get away . 
Miss Vincy is a musician ? said Lydgate , following her with his eyes . 
The best in Middlemarch , I'll be bound , said Mr. Featherstone , let the next be who she will . 
Eh , Fred ? Speak up for your sister . 
I'm afraid I'm out of court , sir . 
My evidence would be good for nothing . 
Middlemarch has not a very high standard , uncle , said Rosamond , with a pretty lightness , going towards her whip , which lay at a distance . 
Lydgate was quick in anticipating her . 
He reached the whip before she did , and turned to present it to her . 
I think Lydgate turned a little paler than usual , but Rosamond blushed deeply and felt a certain astonishment . 
After that , she was really anxious to go , and did not know what sort of stupidity her uncle was talking of when she went to shake hands with him . 
Yet this result , which she took to be a mutual impression , called falling in love , was just what Rosamond had contemplated beforehand . 
Ever since that important new arrival in Middlemarch she had woven a little future , of which something like this scene was the necessary beginning . 
Now that she and the stranger had met , reality proved much more moving than anticipation , and Rosamond could not doubt that this was the great epoch of her life . 
She judged of her own symptoms as those of awakening love , and she held it still more natural that Mr. Lydgate should have fallen in love at first sight of her . 
Thus , in riding home , both the brother and the sister were preoccupied and inclined to be silent . 
There was nothing financial , still less sordid , in her previsions she cared about what were considered refinements , and not about the money that was to pay for them . 
Fred's mind , on the other hand , was busy with an anxiety which even his ready hopefulness could not immediately quell . 
He saw no way of eluding Featherstone's stupid demand without incurring consequences which he liked less even than the task of fulfilling it . 
His father was already out of humor with him , and would be still more so if he were the occasion of any additional coolness between his own family and the Bulstrodes . 
Fred felt that he made a wretched figure as a fellow who bragged about expectations from a queer old miser like Featherstone , and went to beg for certificates at his bidding . 
The whole affair was miserably small his debts were small , even his expectations were not anything so very magnificent . 
Fred had known men to whom he would have been ashamed of confessing the smallness of his scrapes . 
Such ruminations naturally produced a streak of misanthropic bitterness . 
It had not occurred to Fred that the introduction of Bulstrode's name in the matter was a fiction of old Featherstone's nor could this have made any difference to his position . 
Fred fancied that he saw to the bottom of his uncle Featherstone's soul , though in reality half what he saw there was no more than the reflex of his own inclinations . 
The difficult task of knowing another soul is not for young gentlemen whose consciousness is chiefly made up of their own wishes . 
Fred's main point of debate with himself was , whether he should tell his father , or try to get through the affair without his father's knowledge . 
He said to Rosamond , as they slackened their pace Rosy , did Mary tell you that Mrs. Waule had said anything about me ? Yes , indeed , she did . 
What ? That you were very unsteady . 
Was that all ? I should think that was enough , Fred . 
You are sure she said no more ? Mary mentioned nothing else . 
But really , Fred , I think you ought to be ashamed . 
Oh , fudge ! Don't lecture me . 
What did Mary say about it ? I am not obliged to tell you . 
You care so very much what Mary says , and you are too rude to allow me to speak . 
Of course I care what Mary says . 
She is the best girl I know . 
I should never have thought she was a girl to fall in love with . 
How do you know what men would fall in love with ? Girls never know . 
At least , Fred , let me advise YOU not to fall in love with her , for she says she would not marry you if you asked her . 
She might have waited till I did ask her . 
I knew it would nettle you , Fred . 
She would not have said so if you had not provoked her . 
How class your man ? as better than the most , Or , seeming better , worse beneath that cloak ? As saint or knave , pilgrim or hypocrite ? d Gent . 
Nay , tell me how you class your wealth of books The drifted relics of all time . 
The banker's speech was fluent , but it was also copious , and he used up an appreciable amount of time in brief meditative pauses . 
Others , who expected to make no great figure , disliked this kind of moral lantern turned on them . 
If you are not proud of your cellar , there is no thrill of satisfaction in seeing your guest hold up his wine glass to the light and look judicial . 
Such joys are reserved for conscious merit . 
Hence Mr. Bulstrode's close attention was not agreeable to the publicans and sinners in Middlemarch it was attributed by some to his being a Pharisee , and by others to his being Evangelical . 
Less superficial reasoners among them wished to know who his father and grandfather were , observing that five and twenty years ago nobody had ever heard of a Bulstrode in Middlemarch . 
I shall be exceedingly obliged if you will look in on me here occasionally , Mr. Lydgate , the banker observed , after a brief pause . 
As to the new hospital , which is nearly finished , I shall consider what you have said about the advantages of the special destination for fevers . 
The decision will rest with me , for though Lord Medlicote has given the land and timber for the building , he is not disposed to give his personal attention to the object . 
There are few things better worth the pains in a provincial town like this , said Lydgate . 
Any valid professional aims may often find a freer , if not a richer field , in the provinces . 
One of Lydgate's gifts was a voice habitually deep and sonorous , yet capable of becoming very low and gentle at the right moment . 
But this proud openness was made lovable by an expression of unaffected good will . 
Mr. Bulstrode perhaps liked him the better for the difference between them in pitch and manners he certainly liked him the better , as Rosamond did , for being a stranger in Middlemarch . 
One can begin so many things with a new person ! even begin to be a better man . 
With regard to the old infirmary , we have gained the initial point I mean your election . 
And now I hope you will not shrink from incurring a certain amount of jealousy and dislike from your professional brethren by presenting yourself as a reformer . 
The standard of that profession is low in Middlemarch , my dear sir , said the banker . 
I mean in knowledge and skill not in social status , for our medical men are most of them connected with respectable townspeople here . 
My own imperfect health has induced me to give some attention to those palliative resources which the divine mercy has placed within our reach . 
I have consulted eminent men in the metropolis , and I am painfully aware of the backwardness under which medical treatment labors in our provincial districts . 
Yes with our present medical rules and education , one must be satisfied now and then to meet with a fair practitioner . 
Mr. Bulstrode , bending and looking intently , found the form which Lydgate had given to his agreement not quite suited to his comprehension . 
Under such circumstances a judicious man changes the topic and enters on ground where his own gifts may be more useful . 
I am aware , he said , that the peculiar bias of medical ability is towards material means . 
You recognize , I hope the existence of spiritual interests in your patients ? Certainly I do . 
But those words are apt to cover different meanings to different minds . 
And on such subjects wrong teaching is as fatal as no teaching . 
Now a point which I have much at heart to secure is a new regulation as to clerical attendance at the old infirmary . 
The building stands in Mr. Farebrother's parish . 
You know Mr. Farebrother ? I have seen him . 
He gave me his vote . 
I must call to thank him . 
He seems a very bright pleasant little fellow . 
And I understand he is a naturalist . 
Mr. Farebrother , my dear sir , is a man deeply painful to contemplate . 
I suppose there is not a clergyman in this country who has greater talents . 
Mr. Bulstrode paused and looked meditative . 
I have not yet been pained by finding any excessive talent in Middlemarch , said Lydgate , bluntly . 
Lydgate smiled , but he was bent on being circumspect . 
Of course you cannot enter fully into the merits of this measure at present . 
I hope I shall have nothing to do with clerical disputes , said Lydgate . 
The path I have chosen is to work well in my own profession . 
My responsibility , Mr. Lydgate , is of a broader kind . 
But I shall not therefore drop one iota of my convictions , or cease to identify myself with that truth which an evil generation hates . 
I have another ground of action , and in the face of persecution I will not conceal it . 
Mr. Bulstrode's voice had become a loud and agitated whisper as he said the last words . 
There we certainly differ , said Lydgate . 
But he was not sorry that the door was now opened , and Mr. Vincy was announced . 
That florid sociable personage was become more interesting to him since he had seen Rosamond . 
Mr. Bulstrode , alone with his brother in law , poured himself out a glass of water , and opened a sandwich box . 
I cannot persuade you to adopt my regimen , Vincy ? No , no I've no opinion of that system . 
Life wants padding , said Mr. Vincy , unable to omit his portable theory . 
That is a subject on which you and I are likely to take quite as different views as on diet , Vincy . 
I hope not this time . 
The fact is , it's about a whim of old Featherstone's . 
Somebody has been cooking up a story out of spite , and telling it to the old man , to try to set him against Fred . 
Vincy , I must repeat , that you will not get any concurrence from me as to the course you have pursued with your eldest son . 
You are now reaping the consequences . 
To point out other people's errors was a duty that Mr. Bulstrode rarely shrank from , but Mr. Vincy was not equally prepared to be patient . 
And this particular reproof irritated him more than any other . 
It was eminently superfluous to him to be told that he was reaping the consequences . 
But he felt his neck under Bulstrode's yoke and though he usually enjoyed kicking , he was anxious to refrain from that relief . 
As to that , Bulstrode , it's no use going back . 
I'm not one of your pattern men , and I don't pretend to be . 
I couldn't foresee everything in the trade there wasn't a finer business in Middlemarch than ours , and the lad was clever . 
I think I was justified in what I tried to do for Fred . 
If you come to religion , it seems to me a man shouldn't want to carve out his meat to an ounce beforehand one must trust a little to Providence and be generous . 
It's a good British feeling to try and raise your family a little in my opinion , it's a father's duty to give his sons a fine chance . 
I don't wish to act otherwise than as your best friend , Vincy , when I say that what you have been uttering just now is one mass of worldliness and inconsistent folly . 
I suppose you don't conduct business on what you call unworldly principles . 
The only difference I see is that one worldliness is a little bit honester than another . 
You had some more particular business . 
Of course you never said any such nonsense . 
I suppose you can have no objection to do that . 
But Fred gives me his honor that he has never borrowed money on the pretence of any understanding about his uncle's land . 
He is not a liar . 
I don't want to make him better than he is . 
I have blown him up well nobody can say I wink at what he does . 
But he is not a liar . 
And I should have thought but I may be wrong that there was no religion to hinder a man from believing the best of a young fellow , when you don't know worse . 
I am not at all sure that I should be befriending your son by smoothing his way to the future possession of Featherstone's property . 
I cannot regard wealth as a blessing to those who use it simply as a harvest for this world . 
I do not shrink from saying that it will not tend to your son's eternal welfare or to the glory of God . 
Perhaps if other people knew so much of the profit went to the glory of God , they might like it better . 
But I don't mind so much about that I could get up a pretty row , if I chose . 
Mr. Bulstrode paused a little before he answered . 
You pain me very much by speaking in this way , Vincy . 
I must remind you that it is not your own prudence or judgment that has enabled you to keep your place in the trade . 
And when you married Harriet , I don't see how you could expect that our families should not hang by the same nail . 
If you've changed your mind , and want my family to come down in the world , you'd better say so . 
I've never changed I'm a plain Churchman now , just as I used to be before doctrines came up . 
I take the world as I find it , in trade and everything else . 
I'm contented to be no worse than my neighbors . 
But if you want us to come down in the world , say so . 
I shall know better what to do then . 
Shall you come down in the world for want of this letter about your son ? Well , whether or not , I consider it very unhandsome of you to refuse it . 
Such doings may be lined with religion , but outside they have a nasty , dog in the manger look . 
You might as well slander Fred it comes pretty near to it when you refuse to say you didn't set a slander going . 
It's this sort of thing this tyrannical spirit , wanting to play bishop and banker everywhere it's this sort of thing makes a man's name stink . 
I don't want to quarrel . 
It's for my interest and perhaps for yours too that we should be friends . 
I bear you no grudge I think no worse of you than I do of other people . 
You like to be master , there's no denying that you must be first chop in heaven , else you won't like it much . 
And I don't mean to say I shall bear it well . 
Mr. Vincy rose , began to button his great coat , and looked steadily at his brother in law , meaning to imply a demand for a decisive answer . 
It was not in Mr. Bulstrode's nature to comply directly in consequence of uncomfortable suggestions . 
Before changing his course , he always needed to shape his motives and bring them into accordance with his habitual standard . 
He said , at last I will reflect a little , Vincy . 
I will mention the subject to Harriet . 
I shall probably send you a letter . 
As soon as you can , please . 
I hope it will all be settled before I see you to morrow . 
Serve warm the vessels you must choose To keep it in are dead men's shoes . 
He put on his spectacles to read the letter , pursing up his lips and drawing down their corners . 
He couldn't speak finer if he wanted to borrow . 
You wished to have the letter , sir . 
I should think it very likely that Mr. Bulstrode's denial is as good as the authority which told you what he denies . 
I never said I believed either one or the other . 
And now what d' you expect ? said Mr. Featherstone , curtly , keeping on his spectacles , but withdrawing his hands under his wraps . 
I expect nothing , sir . 
Fred with difficulty restrained himself from venting his irritation . 
I came to bring you the letter . 
If you like I will bid you good morning . 
Not yet , not yet . 
Ring the bell I want missy to come . 
It was a servant who came in answer to the bell . 
Tell missy to come ! said Mr. Featherstone , impatiently . 
What business had she to go away ? He spoke in the same tone when Mary came . 
Why couldn't you sit still here till I told you to go ? want my waistcoat now . 
I told you always to put it on the bed . 
Mary's eyes looked rather red , as if she had been crying . 
But she never had anything worse than words to dread . 
When she went to reach the waistcoat from a peg , Fred went up to her and said , Allow me . 
Let it alone ! You bring it , missy , and lay it down here , said Mr. Featherstone . 
Now you go away again till I call you , he added , when the waistcoat was laid down by him . 
It was usual with him to season his pleasure in showing favor to one person by being especially disagreeable to another , and Mary was always at hand to furnish the condiment . 
When his own relatives came she was treated better . 
Slowly he took out a bunch of keys from the waistcoat pocket , and slowly he drew forth a tin box which was under the bed clothes . 
You expect I am going to give you a little fortune , eh ? he said , looking above his spectacles and pausing in the act of opening the lid . 
Not at all , sir . 
You were good enough to speak of making me a present the other day , else , of course , I should not have thought of the matter . 
But Fred was of a hopeful disposition , and a vision had presented itself of a sum just large enough to deliver him from a certain anxiety . 
The deep veined hands fingered many bank notes one after the other , laying them down flat again , while Fred leaned back in his chair , scorning to look eager . 
He held himself to be a gentleman at heart , and did not like courting an old fellow for his money . 
But then , each might mean fifty pounds . 
He took them , saying I am very much obliged to you , sir , and was going to roll them up without seeming to think of their value . 
But this did not suit Mr. Featherstone , who was eying him intently . 
Come , don't you think it worth your while to count 'em ? You take money like a lord I suppose you lose it like one . 
I thought I was not to look a gift horse in the mouth , sir . 
But I shall be very happy to count them . 
Fred was not so happy , however , after he had counted them . 
For they actually presented the absurdity of being less than his hopefulness had decided that they must be . 
What can the fitness of things mean , if not their fitness to a man's expectations ? Failing this , absurdity and atheism gape behind him . 
Nevertheless he said , with rapid changes in his fair complexion It is very handsome of you , sir . 
I assure you , sir , I am very grateful , said Fred , who had had time to recover his cheerful air . 
So you ought to be . 
You want to cut a figure in the world , and I reckon Peter Featherstone is the only one you've got to trust to . 
Yes , indeed I was not born to very splendid chances . 
Few men have been more cramped than I have been , said Fred , with some sense of surprise at his own virtue , considering how hardly he was dealt with . 
Well , you can buy yourself a fine hunter now . 
Eighty pound is enough for that , I reckon and you'll have twenty pound over to get yourself out of any little scrape , said Mr. Featherstone , chuckling slightly . 
You are very good , sir , said Fred , with a fine sense of contrast between the words and his feeling . 
Ay , rather a better uncle than your fine uncle Bulstrode . 
You won't get much out of his spekilations , I think . 
He's got a pretty strong string round your father's leg , by what I hear , eh ? My father never tells me anything about his affairs , sir . 
Well , he shows some sense there . 
But other people find 'em out without his telling . 
But you won't get much by his dying without a will , though you ARE the eldest son . 
Fred thought that Mr. Featherstone had never been so disagreeable before . 
True , he had never before given him quite so much money at once . 
Shall I destroy this letter of Mr. Bulstrode's , sir ? said Fred , rising with the letter as if he would put it in the fire . 
Ay , ay , I don't want it . 
It's worth no money to me . 
Fred carried the letter to the fire , and thrust the poker through it with much zest . 
Presently , the farm bailiff came up to give his master a report , and Fred , to his unspeakable relief , was dismissed with the injunction to come again soon . 
He had longed not only to be set free from his uncle , but also to find Mary Garth . 
She was now in her usual place by the fire , with sewing in her hands and a book open on the little table by her side . 
Her eyelids had lost some of their redness now , and she had her usual air of self command . 
Am I wanted up stairs ? she said , half rising as Fred entered . 
No I am only dismissed , because Simmons is gone up . 
Mary sat down again , and resumed her work . 
She was certainly treating him with more indifference than usual she did not know how affectionately indignant he had felt on her behalf up stairs . 
Poor fellow ! I think he is in love with you . 
I am not aware of it . 
I should have thought that I , at least , might have been safe from all that . 
I have no ground for the nonsensical vanity of fancying everybody who comes near me is in love with me . 
Mary did not mean to betray any feeling , but in spite of herself she ended in a tremulous tone of vexation . 
Confound John Waule ! I did not mean to make you angry . 
I didn't know you had any reason for being grateful to me . 
I forgot what a great service you think it if any one snuffs a candle for you . 
Fred also had his pride , and was not going to show that he knew what had called forth this outburst of Mary's . 
Oh , I am not angry , except with the ways of the world . 
I do like to be spoken to as if I had common sense . 
I really often feel as if I could understand a little more than I ever hear even from young gentlemen who have been to college . 
Mary had recovered , and she spoke with a suppressed rippling under current of laughter pleasant to hear . 
I don't care how merry you are at my expense this morning , said Fred , I thought you looked so sad when you came up stairs . 
It is a shame you should stay here to be bullied in that way . 
Oh , I have an easy life by comparison . 
I have tried being a teacher , and I am not fit for that my mind is too fond of wandering on its own way . 
I think any hardship is better than pretending to do what one is paid for , and never really doing it . 
Everything here I can do as well as any one else could perhaps better than some Rosy , for example . 
Though she is just the sort of beautiful creature that is imprisoned with ogres in fairy tales . 
ROSY ! cried Fred , in a tone of profound brotherly scepticism . 
Come , Fred ! said Mary , emphatically you have no right to be so critical . 
Do you mean anything particular just now ? No , I mean something general always . 
Oh , that I am idle and extravagant . 
Well , I am not fit to be a poor man . 
I should not have made a bad fellow if I had been rich . 
You would have done your duty in that state of life to which it has not pleased God to call you , said Mary , laughing . 
Well , I couldn't do my duty as a clergyman , any more than you could do yours as a governess . 
You ought to have a little fellow feeling there , Mary . 
I never said you ought to be a clergyman . 
There are other sorts of work . 
It seems to me very miserable not to resolve on some course and act accordingly . 
So I could , if Fred broke off , and stood up , leaning against the mantel piece . 
If you were sure you should not have a fortune ? I did not say that . 
You want to quarrel with me . 
It is too bad of you to be guided by what other people say about me . 
How can I want to quarrel with you ? I should be quarrelling with all my new books , said Mary , lifting the volume on the table . 
However naughty you may be to other people , you are good to me . 
Because I like you better than any one else . 
But I know you despise me . 
Yes , I do a little , said Mary , nodding , with a smile . 
You would admire a stupendous fellow , who would have wise opinions about everything . 
Mary was sewing swiftly , and seemed provokingly mistress of the situation . 
When a conversation has taken a wrong turn for us , we only get farther and farther into the swamp of awkwardness . 
This was what Fred Vincy felt . 
I suppose a woman is never in love with any one she has always known ever since she can remember as a man often is . 
It is always some new fellow who strikes a girl . 
Let me see , said Mary , the corners of her mouth curling archly I must go back on my experience . 
There is Juliet she seems an example of what you say . 
Waverley was new to Flora MacIvor but then she did not fall in love with him . 
And there are Olivia and Sophia Primrose , and Corinne they may be said to have fallen in love with new men . 
Altogether , my experience is rather mixed . 
Mary looked up with some roguishness at Fred , and that look of hers was very dear to him , though the eyes were nothing more than clear windows where observation sat laughingly . 
Not of the least use in the world for him to say he COULD be better . 
Might , could , would they are contemptible auxiliaries . 
I don't see how a man is to be good for much unless he has some one woman to love him dearly . 
I think the goodness should come before he expects that . 
You know better , Mary . 
Women don't love men for their goodness . 
But if they love them , they never think them bad . 
It is hardly fair to say I am bad . 
I said nothing at all about you . 
If I did love you , I would not marry you I would certainly not promise ever to marry you . 
I think that is quite wicked , Mary . 
If you love me , you ought to promise to marry me . 
On the contrary , I think it would be wicked in me to marry you even if I did love you . 
You mean , just as I am , without any means of maintaining a wife . 
Of course I am but three and twenty . 
In that last point you will alter . 
But I am not so sure of any other alteration . 
My father says an idle man ought not to exist , much less , be married . 
Then I am to blow my brains out ? No on the whole I should think you would do better to pass your examination . 
I have heard Mr. Farebrother say it is disgracefully easy . 
That is all very fine . 
Anything is easy to him . 
Not that cleverness has anything to do with it . 
I am ten times cleverer than many men who pass . 
Dear me ! said Mary , unable to repress her sarcasm that accounts for the curates like Mr. Crowse . 
Divide your cleverness by ten , and the quotient dear me ! is able to take a degree . 
But that only shows you are ten times more idle than the others . 
Well , if I did pass , you would not want me to go into the Church ? That is not the question what I want you to do . 
You have a conscience of your own , I suppose . 
There ! there is Mr. Lydgate . 
I must go and tell my uncle . 
Mary , said Fred , seizing her hand as she rose if you will not give me some encouragement , I shall get worse instead of better . 
I will not give you any encouragement , said Mary , reddening . 
Your friends would dislike it , and so would mine . 
My father would think it a disgrace to me if I accepted a man who got into debt , and would not work ! Fred was stung , and released her hand . 
She walked to the door , but there she turned and said Fred , you have always been so good , so generous to me . 
But never speak to me in that way again . 
Very well , said Fred , sulkily , taking up his hat and whip . 
His complexion showed patches of pale pink and dead white . 
When he got home , he gave four of the twenties to his mother , asking her to keep them for him . 
I don't want to spend that money , mother . 
I want it to pay a debt with . 
So keep it safe away from my fingers . 
Bless you , my dear , said Mrs. Vincy . 
, whom others thought her two naughtiest children . 
The mother's eyes are not always deceived in their partiality she at least can best judge who is the tender , filial hearted child . 
And Fred was certainly very fond of his mother . 
Perhaps it was his fondness for another person also that made him particularly anxious to take some security against his own liability to spend the hundred pounds . 
For the creditor to whom he owed a hundred and sixty held a firmer security in the shape of a bill signed by Mary's father . 
Black eyes you have left , you say , Blue eyes fail to draw you Yet you seem more rapt to day , Than of old we saw you . 
, when summer afternoons were spacious , and the clock ticked slowly in the winter evenings . 
For everybody's family doctor was remarkably clever , and was understood to have immeasurable skill in the management and training of the most skittish or vicious diseases . 
The strengtheners and the lowerers were all clever men in somebody's opinion , which is really as much as can be said for any living talents . 
Nobody's imagination had gone so far as to conjecture that Mr. Lydgate could know as much as Dr . 
Minchin , the two physicians , who alone could offer any hope when danger was extreme , and when the smallest hope was worth a guinea . 
Still , I repeat , there was a general impression that Lydgate was something rather more uncommon than any general practitioner in Middlemarch . 
He had been left an orphan when he was fresh from a public school . 
Something of that sort happened to Lydgate . 
Something he must read , when he was not riding the pony , or running and hunting , or listening to the talk of men . 
His school studies had not much modified that opinion , for though he did his classics and mathematics , he was not pre eminent in them . 
It was said of him , that Lydgate could do anything he liked , but he had certainly not yet liked to do anything remarkable . 
Probably this was not an exceptional result of expensive teaching at that period of short waisted coats , and other fashions which have not yet recurred . 
It would at least be a novelty to disturb them . 
They were on the highest shelf , and he stood on a chair to get them down . 
But he opened the volume which he first took from the shelf somehow , one is apt to read in a makeshift attitude , just where it might seem inconvenient to do so . 
The page he opened on was under the head of Anatomy , and the first passage that drew his eyes was on the valves of the heart . 
But the moment of vocation had come , and before he got down from his chair , the world was made new to him by a presentiment of . 
endless processes filling the vast spaces planked out of his sight by that wordy ignorance which he had supposed to be knowledge . 
From that hour Lydgate felt the growth of an intellectual passion . 
And not seldom the catastrophe is bound up with the other passion , sung by the Troubadours . 
Lydgate's nature demanded this combination he was an emotional creature , with a flesh and blood sense of fellowship which withstood all the abstractions of special study . 
He cared not only for cases , but for John and Elizabeth , especially Elizabeth . 
But he did not simply aim at a more genuine kind of practice than was common . 
He was ambitious of a wider effect he was fired with the possibility that he might work out the proof of an anatomical conception and make a link in the chain of discovery . 
Was not this the typical pre eminence of his profession ? He would be a good Middlemarch doctor , and by that very means keep himself in the track of far reaching investigation . 
He intended to begin in his own case some particular reforms which were quite certainly within his reach , and much less of a problem than the demonstrating of an anatomical conception . 
One of these reforms was to act stoutly on the strength of a recent legal decision , and simply prescribe , without dispensing drugs or taking percentage from druggists . 
This was an innovation for one who had chosen to adopt the style of general practitioner in a country town , and would be felt as offensive criticism by his professional brethren . 
Lydgate was ambitious above all to contribute towards enlarging the scientific , rational basis of his profession . 
No man , one sees , can understand and estimate the entire structure or its parts what are its frailties and what its repairs , without knowing the nature of the materials . 
The work had not yet been done , but only prepared for those who knew how to use the preparation . 
What was the primitive tissue ? In that way Lydgate put the question not quite in the way required by the awaiting answer but such missing of the right word befalls many seekers . 
Such was Lydgate's plan of his future to do good small work for Middlemarch , and great work for the world . 
The risk would remain even with close knowledge of Lydgate's character for character too is a process and an unfolding . 
The man was still in the making , as much as the Middlemarch doctor and immortal discoverer , and there were both virtues and faults capable of shrinking or expanding . 
The faults will not , I hope , be a reason for the withdrawal of your interest in him . 
The particular faults from which these delicate generalities are distilled have distinguishable physiognomies , diction , accent , and grimaces filling up parts in very various dramas . 
Our vanities differ as our noses do all conceit is not the same conceit , but varies in correspondence with the minutiae of mental make in which one of us differs from another . 
Lydgate's conceit was of the arrogant sort , never simpering , never impertinent , but massive in its claims and benevolently contemptuous . 
Where then lay the spots of commonness ? says a young lady enamoured of that careless grace . 
that he was better born than other country surgeons . 
The story can be told without many words . 
It happened when he was studying in Paris , and just at the time when , over and above his other work , he was occupied with some galvanic experiments . 
Lydgate was in love with this actress , as a man is in love with a woman whom he never expects to speak to . 
She had but lately come to Paris , and bore a virtuous reputation , her husband acting with her as the unfortunate lover . 
It was her acting which was no better than it should be , but the public was satisfied . 
But this evening the old drama had a new catastrophe . 
A wild shriek pierced the house , and the Provencale fell swooning a shriek and a swoon were demanded by the play , but the swooning too was real this time . 
but Lydgate was not one of these . 
The legal investigation ended in Madame Laure's release . 
Lydgate by this time had had many interviews with her , and found her more and more adorable . 
She talked little but that was an additional charm . 
She was melancholy , and seemed grateful her presence was enough , like that of the evening light . 
Lydgate was madly anxious about her affection , and jealous lest any other man than himself should win it and ask her to marry him . 
He found her at last acting with great success at Avignon under the same name , looking more majestic than ever as a forsaken wife carrying her child in her arms . 
He knew that this was like the sudden impulse of a madman incongruous even with his habitual foibles . 
No matter ! It was the one thing which he was resolved to do . 
He had two selves within him apparently , and they must learn to accommodate each other and bear reciprocal impediments . 
To have approached Laure with any suit that was not reverentially tender would have been simply a contradiction of his whole feeling towards her . 
Are all Englishmen like that ? I came because I could not live without trying to see you . 
You are lonely I love you I want you to consent to be my wife I will wait , but I want you to promise that you will marry me no one else . 
Laure looked at him in silence with a melancholy radiance from under her grand eyelids , until he was full of rapturous certainty , and knelt close to her knees . 
I will tell you something , she said , in her cooing way , keeping her arms folded . 
I know , I know , said Lydgate , deprecatingly . 
It was a fatal accident a dreadful stroke of calamity that bound me to you the more . 
Again Laure paused a little and then said , slowly , I MEANT TO DO IT . 
Lydgate , strong man as he was , turned pale and trembled moments seemed to pass before he rose and stood at a distance from her . 
There was a secret , then , he said at last , even vehemently . 
He was brutal to you you hated him . 
No ! he wearied me he was too fond he would live in Paris , and not in my country that was not agreeable to me . 
Great God ! said Lydgate , in a groan of horror . 
And you planned to murder him ? I did not plan it came to me in the play I MEANT TO DO IT . 
Lydgate stood mute , and unconsciously pressed his hat on while he looked at her . 
He saw this woman the first to whom he had given his young adoration amid the throng of stupid criminals . 
You are a good young man , she said . 
But I do not like husbands . 
I will never have another . 
Three days afterwards Lydgate was at his galvanism again in his Paris chambers , believing that illusions were at an end for him . 
He was saved from hardening effects by the abundant kindness of his heart and his belief that human life might be made better . 
Middlemarch , in fact , counted on swallowing Lydgate and assimilating him very comfortably . 
All that in woman is adored In thy fair self I find For the whole sex can but afford The handsome and the kind . 
He had gathered , as an industrious man always at his post , a chief share in administering the town charities , and his private charities were both minute and abundant . 
His private minor loans were numerous , but he would inquire strictly into the circumstances both before and after . 
It was a principle with Mr. Bulstrode to gain as much power as possible , that he might use it for the glory of God . 
He went through a great deal of spiritual conflict and inward argument in order to adjust his motives , and make clear to himself what God's glory required . 
But , as we have seen , his motives were not always rightly appreciated . 
What line shall you take , then ? said Mr. Chichely , the coroner , a great coursing comrade of Mr. Vincy's . 
Oh , I'm precious glad I'm not one of the Directors now . 
I shall vote for referring the matter to the Directors and the Medical Board together . 
I shall roll some of my responsibility on your shoulders , Doctor , said Mr. Vincy , glancing first at Dr . 
Sprague , the senior physician of the town , and then at Lydgate who sat opposite . 
The fittest man for a particular post is not always the best fellow or the most agreeable . 
Sprague , who was considered the physician of most weight , though Dr . 
Minchin was usually said to have more penetration , divested his large heavy face of all expression , and looked at his wine glass while Lydgate was speaking . 
For my part I have some fellow feeling with Dr . 
Sprague one's self satisfaction is an untaxed kind of property which it is very unpleasant to find deprecated . 
Lydgate's remark , however , did not meet the sense of the company . 
Mr. Vincy said , that if he could have HIS way , he would not put disagreeable fellows anywhere . 
Hang your reforms ! said Mr. Chichely . 
There's no greater humbug in the world . 
You never hear of a reform , but it means some trick to put in new men . 
I hope you are not one of the Lancet's' men , Mr. Lydgate wanting to take the coronership out of the hands of the legal profession your words appear to point that way . 
I disapprove of Wakley , interposed Dr . 
There are men who don't mind about being kicked blue if they can only get talked about . 
But Wakley is right sometimes , the Doctor added , judicially . 
I could mention one or two points in which Wakley is in the right . 
People talk about evidence as if it could really be weighed in scales by a blind Justice . 
No man can judge what is good evidence on any particular subject , unless he knows that subject well . 
A lawyer is no better than an old woman at a post mortem examination . 
How is he to know the action of a poison ? You might as well say that scanning verse will teach you to scan the potato crops . 
Who is often almost as ignorant as the coroner himself , said Lydgate . 
Lydgate had really lost sight of the fact that Mr. Chichely was his Majesty's coroner , and ended innocently with the question , Don't you agree with me , Dr . 
Sprague ? To a certain extent with regard to populous districts , and in the metropolis , said the Doctor . 
I am sure Vincy will agree with me . 
Yes , yes , give me a coroner who is a good coursing man , said Mr. Vincy , jovially . 
And in my opinion , you're safest with a lawyer . 
Most things are visitation of God . 
And as to poisoning , why , what you want to know is the law . 
This was one of the difficulties of moving in good Middlemarch society it was dangerous to insist on knowledge as a qualification for any salaried office . 
The tinge of unpretentious , inoffensive vulgarity in Mrs. Vincy gave more effect to Rosamond's refinement , which was beyond what Lydgate had expected . 
And Rosamond could say the right thing for she was clever with that sort of cleverness which catches every tone except the humorous . 
Happily she never attempted to joke , and this perhaps was the most decisive mark of her cleverness . 
She and Lydgate readily got into conversation . 
He regretted that he had not heard her sing the other day at Stone Court . 
The only pleasure he allowed himself during the latter part of his stay in Paris was to go and hear music . 
You have studied music , probably ? said Rosamond . 
How stupid the world is that it does not make more use of such a pleasure within its reach ! Yes , and you will find Middlemarch very tuneless . 
There are hardly any good musicians . 
I only know two gentlemen who sing at all well . 
But we are speaking very ill of our neighbors . 
Since he had had the memory of Laure , Lydgate had lost all taste for large eyed silence the divine cow no longer attracted him , and Rosamond was her very opposite . 
You will let me hear some music to night , I hope . 
I will let you hear my attempts , if you like , said Rosamond . 
Papa is sure to insist on my singing . 
But I shall tremble before you , who have heard the best singers in Paris . 
I have heard very little I have only once been to London . 
But our organist at St . 
Peter's is a good musician , and I go on studying with him . 
Tell me what you saw in London . 
A few of the ordinary sights , such as raw country girls are always taken to . 
Do you call yourself a raw country girl ? said Lydgate , looking at her with an involuntary emphasis of admiration , which made Rosamond blush with pleasure . 
Not that Rosamond was in the least like a kitten she was a sylph caught young and educated at Mrs. Lemon's . 
I assure you my mind is raw , she said immediately I pass at Middlemarch . 
I am not afraid of talking to our old neighbors . 
But I am really afraid of you . 
An accomplished woman almost always knows more than we men , though her knowledge is of a different sort . 
I am sure you could teach me a thousand things as an exquisite bird could teach a bear if there were any common language between them . 
Happily , there is a common language between women and men , and so the bears can get taught . 
Able men who have passed their examinations will do these things sometimes , not less than the plucked Fred . 
Fred , pray defer your practising till to morrow you will make Mr. Lydgate ill , said Rosamond . 
Fred laughed , and went on with his tune to the end . 
Rosamond turned to Lydgate , smiling gently , and said , You perceive , the bears will not always be taught . 
Now then , Rosy ! said Fred , springing from the stool and twisting it upward for her , with a hearty expectation of enjoyment . 
Some good rousing tunes first . 
Rosamond , with the executant's instinct , had seized his manner of playing , and gave forth his large rendering of noble music with the precision of an echo . 
It was almost startling , heard for the first time . 
Lydgate was taken possession of , and began to believe in her as something exceptional . 
He sat looking at her , and did not rise to pay her any compliments , leaving that to others , now that his admiration was deepened . 
Her singing was less remarkable ? but also well trained , and sweet to hear as a chime perfectly in tune . 
It is true she sang Meet me by moonlight , and I've been roaming for mortals must share the fashions of their time , and none but the ancients can be always classical . 
Her father looked round at the company , delighting in their admiration . 
Her mother sat , like a Niobe before her troubles , with her youngest little girl on her lap , softly beating the child's hand up and down in time to the music . 
And Fred , notwithstanding his general scepticism about Rosy , listened to her music with perfect allegiance , wishing he could do the same thing on his flute . 
It was the pleasantest family party that Lydgate had seen since he came to Middlemarch . 
At the Vincys' there was always whist , and the card tables stood ready now , making some of the company secretly impatient of the music . 
He claimed from Lydgate the fulfilment of a promise to come and see him . 
I can't let you off , you know , because I have some beetles to show you . 
We collectors feel an interest in every new man till he has seen all we have to show him . 
Lydgate said to himself that the clergyman whose abilities were so painful to Mr. Bulstrode , appeared to have found an agreeable resort in this certainly not erudite household . 
Lydgate did not mean to pay many such visits himself . 
They were a wretched waste of the evenings and now , when he had talked a little more to Rosamond , he meant to excuse himself and go . 
You will not like us at Middlemarch , I feel sure , she said , when the whist players were settled . 
We are very stupid , and you have been used to something quite different . 
I suppose all country towns are pretty much alike , said Lydgate . 
But I have noticed that one always believes one's own town to be more stupid than any other . 
I have made up my mind to take Middlemarch as it comes , and shall be much obliged if the town will take me in the same way . 
I have certainly found some charms in it which are much greater than I had expected . 
You mean the rides towards Tipton and Lowick every one is pleased with those , said Rosamond , with simplicity . 
No , I mean something much nearer to me . 
Rosamond rose and reached her netting , and then said , Do you care about dancing at all ? I am not quite sure whether clever men ever dance . 
I would dance with you if you would allow me . 
Oh ! said Rosamond , with a slight deprecatory laugh . 
I was only going to say that we sometimes have dancing , and I wanted to know whether you would feel insulted if you were asked to come . 
Not on the condition I mentioned . 
and there was punch drinking but Mr. Farebrother had only a glass of water . 
He was winning , but there seemed to be no reason why the renewal of rubbers should end , and Lydgate at last took his leave . 
But as it was not eleven o'clock , he chose to walk in the brisk air towards the tower of St . 
Botolph's , Mr. Farebrother's church , which stood out dark , square , and massive against the starlight . 
It was the oldest church in Middlemarch the living , however , was but a vicarage worth barely four hundred a year . 
Many things would be easier to Lydgate if it should turn out that Mr. Bulstrode was generally justifiable . 
What is his religious doctrine to me , if he carries some good notions along with it ? One must use such brains as are to be found . 
These were actually Lydgate's first meditations as he walked away from Mr. Vincy's , and on this ground I fear that many ladies will consider him hardly worthy of their attention . 
I should never have been happy in any profession that did not call forth the highest intellectual strain , and yet keep me in good warm contact with my neighbors . 
There is nothing like the medical profession for that one can have the exclusive scientific life that touches the distance and befriend the old fogies in the parish too . 
It is rather harder for a clergyman Farebrother seems to be an anomaly . 
This last thought brought back the Vincys and all the pictures of the evening . 
They floated in his mind agreeably enough , and as he took up his bed candle his lips were curled with that incipient smile which is apt to accompany agreeable recollections . 
Poor Lydgate ! or shall I say , Poor Rosamond ! Each lived in a world of which the other knew nothing . 
But Rosamond had registered every look and word , and estimated them as the opening incidents of a preconceived romance incidents which gather value from the foreseen development and climax . 
She found time also to read the best novels , and even the second best , and she knew much poetry by heart . 
Her favorite poem was Lalla Rookh . 
The clerkly person smiled and said Promise was a pretty maid , But being poor she died unwed . 
Camden Farebrother , whom Lydgate went to see the next evening , lived in an old parsonage , built of stone , venerable enough to match the church which it looked out upon . 
All the furniture too in the house was old , but with another grade of age that of Mr. Farebrother's father and grandfather . 
There were painted white chairs , with gilding and wreaths on them , and some lingering red silk damask with slits in it . 
The old lady was evidently accustomed to tell her company what they ought to think , and to regard no subject as quite safe without her steering . 
She was afforded leisure for this function by having all her little wants attended to by Miss Winifred . 
Pray think no ill of Miss Noble . 
One must be poor to know the luxury of giving ! Mrs. Farebrother welcomed the guest with a lively formality and precision . 
She presently informed him that they were not often in want of medical aid in that house . 
She had brought up her children to wear flannel and not to over eat themselves , which last habit she considered the chief reason why people needed doctors . 
If those he had bad fathers and mothers were bad themselves , they were hanged for that . 
There was no need to go back on what you couldn't see . 
My mother is like old George the Third , said the Vicar , she objects to metaphysics . 
I object to what is wrong , Camden . 
I say , keep hold of a few plain truths , and make everything square with them . 
When I was young , Mr. Lydgate , there never was any question about right and wrong . 
We knew our catechism , and that was enough we learned our creed and our duty . 
Every respectable Church person had the same opinions . 
But now , if you speak out of the Prayer book itself , you are liable to be contradicted . 
That makes rather a pleasant time of it for those who like to maintain their own point , said Lydgate . 
But my mother always gives way , said the Vicar , slyly . 
No , no , Camden , you must not lead Mr. Lydgate into a mistake about ME . 
I shall never show that disrespect to my parents , to give up what they taught me . 
Any one may see what comes of turning . 
If you go upon arguments , they are never wanting , when a man has no constancy of mind . 
My father never changed , and he preached plain moral sermons without arguments , and was a good man few better . 
When you get me a good man made out of arguments , I will get you a good dinner with reading you the cookery book . 
That's my opinion , and I think anybody's stomach will bear me out . 
About the dinner certainly , mother , said Mr. Farebrother . 
It is the same thing , the dinner or the man . 
I am nearly seventy , Mr. Lydgate , and I go upon experience . 
I am not likely to follow new lights , though there are plenty of them here as elsewhere . 
I say , they came in with the mixed stuffs that will neither wash nor wear . 
It was not so in my youth a Churchman was a Churchman , and a clergyman , you might be pretty sure , was a gentleman , if nothing else . 
But now he may be no better than a Dissenter , and want to push aside my son on pretence of doctrine . 
A mother is never partial , said Mr. Farebrother , smiling . 
She says the truth to herself , depend upon it . 
And what is the truth ? said Lydgate . 
I am curious to know . 
Oh , nothing bad at all , said Mr. Farebrother . 
He is a zealous fellow not very learned , and not very wise , I think because I don't agree with him . 
But the Vicar answered quietly That is because they are not my parishioners . 
And I don't think my sermons are worth a load of coals to them . 
Mr. Lydgate , said Mrs. Farebrother , who could not let this pass , you don't know my son he always undervalues himself . 
I tell him he is undervaluing the God who made him , and made him a most excellent preacher . 
That must be a hint for me to take Mr. Lydgate away to my study , mother , said the Vicar , laughing . 
I promised to show you my collection , he added , turning to Lydgate shall we go ? All three ladies remonstrated . 
Mr. Lydgate ought not to be hurried away without being allowed to accept another cup of tea Miss Winifred had abundance of good tea in the pot . 
Mr. Lydgate must excuse it . 
A game at cribbage would be far better . 
Lydgate , with the usual shallowness of a young bachelor . 
wondered that Mr. Farebrother had not taught them better . 
Men of your profession don't generally smoke , he said . 
Lydgate smiled and shook his head . 
Nor of mine either , properly , I suppose . 
You will hear that pipe alleged against me by Bulstrode and Company . 
They don't know how pleased the devil would be if I gave it up . 
You are of an excitable temper and want a sedative . 
I am heavier , and should get idle with it . 
I should rush into idleness , and stagnate there with all my might . 
And you mean to give it all to your work . 
I am some ten or twelve years older than you , and have come to a compromise . 
I feed a weakness or two lest they should get clamorous . 
See , continued the Vicar , opening several small drawers , I fancy I have made an exhaustive study of the entomology of this district . 
I am going on both with the fauna and flora but I have at least done my insects well . 
We are singularly rich in orthoptera I don't know whether Ah ! you have got hold of that glass jar you are looking into that instead of my drawers . 
You don't really care about these things ? Not by the side of this lovely anencephalous monster . 
I have never had time to give myself much to natural history . 
I was early bitten with an interest in structure , and it is what lies most directly in my profession . 
I have no hobby besides . 
I have the sea to swim in there . 
Ah ! you are a happy fellow , said Mr. Farebrother , turning on his heel and beginning to fill his pipe . 
You don't mind my fumigating you ? Lydgate was more surprised at the openness of this talk than at its implied meaning that the Vicar felt himself not altogether in the right vocation . 
The neat fitting up of drawers and shelves , and the bookcase filled with expensive illustrated books on Natural History , made him think again of the winnings at cards and their destination . 
But he was beginning to wish that the very best construction of everything that Mr. Farebrother did should be the true one . 
You remember Trawley who shared your apartment at Paris for some time ? I was a correspondent of his , and he told me a good deal about you . 
I was not quite sure when you first came that you were the same man . 
I was very glad when I found that you were . 
Only I don't forget that you have not had the like prologue about me . 
Lydgate divined some delicacy of feeling here , but did not half understand it . 
By the way , he said , what has become of Trawley ? I have quite lost sight of him . 
He was hot on the French social systems , and talked of going to the Backwoods to found a sort of Pythagorean community . 
Is he gone ? Not at all . 
He is practising at a German bath , and has married a rich patient . 
Then my notions wear the best , so far , said Lydgate , with a short scornful laugh . 
He would have it , the medical profession was an inevitable system of humbug . 
I said , the fault was in the men men who truckle to lies and folly . 
Instead of preaching against humbug outside the walls , it might be better to set up a disinfecting apparatus within . 
In short I am reporting my own conversation you may be sure I had all the good sense on my side . 
Your scheme is a good deal more difficult to carry out than the Pythagorean community , though . 
You have not only got the old Adam in yourself against you , but you have got all those descendants of the original Adam who form the society around you . 
You see , I have paid twelve or thirteen years more than you for my knowledge of difficulties . 
But Mr. Farebrother broke off a moment , and then added , you are eying that glass vase again . 
Do you want to make an exchange ? You shall not have it without a fair barter . 
I have some sea mice fine specimens in spirits . 
And I will throw in Robert Brown's new thing Microscopic Observations on the Pollen of Plants' if you don't happen to have it already . 
Why , seeing how you long for the monster , I might ask a higher price . 
That would be good discipline , you know , for a young doctor who has to please his patients in Middlemarch . 
You must learn to be bored , remember . 
However , you shall have the monster on your own terms . 
The shortest way is to make your value felt , so that people must put up with you whether you flatter them or not . 
But then you must be sure of having the value , and you must keep yourself independent . 
Very few men can do that . 
Either you slip out of service altogether , and become good for nothing , or you wear the harness and draw a good deal where your yoke fellows pull you . 
But do look at these delicate orthoptera ! Lydgate had after all to give some scrutiny to each drawer , the Vicar laughing at himself , and yet persisting in the exhibition . 
That was why I determined not to try anything in London , for a good many years at least . 
I didn't like what I saw when I was studying there so much empty bigwiggism , and obstructive trickery . 
Yes well you have got a good start you are in the right profession , the work you feel yourself most fit for . 
Some people miss that , and repent too late . 
But you must not be too sure of keeping your independence . 
You mean of family ties ? said Lydgate , conceiving that these might press rather tightly on Mr. Farebrother . 
Of course they make many things more difficult . 
But a good wife a good unworldly woman may really help a man , and keep him more independent . 
There's a parishioner of mine a fine fellow , but who would hardly have pulled through as he has done without his wife . 
Do you know the Garths ? I think they were not Peacock's patients . 
No but there is a Miss Garth at old Featherstone's , at Lowick . 
Their daughter an excellent girl . 
She is very quiet I have hardly noticed her . 
She has taken notice of you , though , depend upon it . 
I don't understand , said Lydgate he could hardly say Of course . 
Oh , she gauges everybody . 
I prepared her for confirmation she is a favorite of mine . 
Mr. Farebrother puffed a few moments in silence , Lydgate not caring to know more about the Garths . 
We have our intrigues and our parties . 
I am a party man , for example , and Bulstrode is another . 
If you vote for me you will offend Bulstrode . 
What is there against Bulstrode ? said Lydgate , emphatically . 
I did not say there was anything against him except that . 
If you vote against him you will make him your enemy . 
He might help me a good deal in carrying out my ideas . 
As to his religious notions why , as Voltaire said , incantations will destroy a flock of sheep if administered with a certain quantity of arsenic . 
I look for the man who will bring the arsenic , and don't mind about his incantations . 
But then you must not offend your arsenic man . 
You will not offend me , you know , said Mr. Farebrother , quite unaffectedly . 
I don't translate my own convenience into other people's duties . 
I am opposed to Bulstrode in many ways . 
I don't like the set he belongs to they are a narrow ignorant set , and do more to make their neighbors uncomfortable than to make them better . 
Their system is a sort of worldly spiritual cliqueism they really look on the rest of mankind as a doomed carcass which is to nourish them for heaven . 
And I am not a model clergyman only a decent makeshift . 
Lydgate was not at all sure that the Vicar maligned himself . 
He only said , What reason does Bulstrode give for superseding you ? That I don't teach his opinions which he calls spiritual religion and that I have no time to spare . 
But then I could make time , and I should be glad of the forty pounds . 
That is the plain fact of the case . 
But let us dismiss it . 
I only wanted to tell you that if you vote for your arsenic man , you are not to cut me in consequence . 
You are a sort of circumnavigator come to settle among us , and will keep up my belief in the antipodes . 
Now tell me all about them in Paris . 
But his liking for the Vicar of St . 
Botolph's grew with growing acquaintanceship . 
Then , his preaching was ingenious and pithy , like the preaching of the English Church in its robust age , and his sermons were delivered without book . 
Lydgate liked him heartily , and wished for his friendship . 
Lydgate , at Mr. Bulstrode's request , was laying down plans for the internal arrangements of the new hospital , and the two were often in consultation . 
The banker was always presupposing that he could count in general on Lydgate as a coadjutor , but made no special recurrence to the coming decision between Tyke and Farebrother . 
For his observation was constantly confirming Mr. Farebrother's assurance that the banker would not overlook opposition . 
There was a billiard room at the Green Dragon , which some anxious mothers and wives regarded as the chief temptation in Middlemarch . 
And as to the chaplaincy , he did not pretend that he cared for it , except for the sake of the forty pounds . 
Money had never been a motive to him . 
Hence he was not ready to frame excuses for this deliberate pursuit of small gains . 
It was altogether repulsive to him , and he never entered into any calculation of the ratio between the Vicar's income and his more or less necessary expenditure . 
It was possible that he would not have made such a calculation in his own case . 
And now , when the question of voting had come , this repulsive fact told more strongly against Mr. Farebrother than it had done before . 
On the other hand , there was Tyke , a man entirely given to his clerical office , who was simply curate at a chapel of ease in St . 
Peter's parish , and had time for extra duty . 
Nobody had anything to say against Mr. Tyke , except that they could not bear him , and suspected him of cant . 
Really , from his point of view , Bulstrode was thoroughly justified . 
But whichever way Lydgate began to incline , there was something to make him wince and being a proud man , he was a little exasperated at being obliged to wince . 
Moreover , Lydgate did not like the consciousness that in voting for Tyke he should be voting on the side obviously convenient for himself . 
What then ? He for his own part knew that if his personal prospects simply had been concerned , he would not have cared a rotten nut for the banker's friendship or enmity . 
However it was , he did not distinctly say to himself on which side he would vote and all the while he was inwardly resenting the subjection which had been forced upon him . 
In his student's chambers , he had prearranged his social action quite differently . 
Lydgate was late in setting out , but Dr . 
Sprague , the two other surgeons , and several of the directors had arrived early Mr. Bulstrode , treasurer and chairman , being among those who were still absent . 
The conversation seemed to imply that the issue was problematical , and that a majority for Tyke was not so certain as had been generally supposed . 
The two physicians , for a wonder , turned out to be unanimous , or rather , though of different minds , they concurred in action . 
Sprague , the rugged and weighty , was , as every one had foreseen , an adherent of Mr. Farebrother . 
If Mr. Bulstrode insisted , as he was apt to do , on the Lutheran doctrine of justification , as that by which a Church must stand or fall , Dr . 
Minchin for his part liked to keep the mental windows open and objected to fixed limits if the Unitarian brewer jested about the Athanasian Creed , Dr . 
Minchin quoted Pope's Essay on Man . 
He objected to the rather free style of anecdote in which Dr . 
Minchin was soft handed , pale complexioned , and of rounded outline , not to be distinguished from a mild clergyman in appearance whereas Dr . 
In short , he had weight , and might be expected to grapple with a disease and throw it while Dr . 
Minchin might be better able to detect it lurking and to circumvent it . 
They enjoyed about equally the mysterious privilege of medical reputation , and concealed with much etiquette their contempt for each other's skill . 
Regarding themselves as Middlemarch institutions , they were ready to combine against all innovators , and against non professionals given to interference . 
On this ground they were both in their hearts equally averse to Mr. Bulstrode , though Dr . 
Minchin had never been in open hostility with him , and never differed from him without elaborate explanation to Mrs. Bulstrode , who had found that Dr . 
Minchin alone understood her constitution . 
Minchin shared fully in the new pique against Bulstrode , excited by his apparent determination to patronize Lydgate . 
Sprague said at once bluntly . 
to the group assembled when he entered , I go for Farebrother . 
A salary , with all my heart . 
But why take it from the Vicar ? He has none too much has to insure his life , besides keeping house , and doing a vicar's charities . 
Put forty pounds in his pocket and you'll do no harm . 
He's a good fellow , is Farebrother , with as little of the parson about him as will serve to carry orders . 
But what we have to consider is not anybody's income it's the souls of the poor sick people here Mr. Powderell's voice and face had a sincere pathos in them . 
He is a real Gospel preacher , is Mr. Tyke . 
I should vote against my conscience if I voted against Mr. Tyke I should indeed . 
But in my judgment it behoves us , as Directors , to consider whether we will regard it as our whole business to carry out propositions emanating from a single quarter . 
We have nothing to do with them here . 
Farebrother has been doing the work what there was without pay , and if pay is to be given , it should be given to him . 
I call it a confounded job to take the thing away from Farebrother . 
I think it would be as well for gentlemen not to give their remarks a personal bearing , said Mr. Plymdale . 
I shall vote for the appointment of Mr. Tyke , but I should not have known , if Mr. Hackbutt hadn't hinted it , that I was a Servile Crawler . 
Come , Doctor , I must have you on the right side , eh ? I hope so , said Dr . 
Minchin , nodding and shaking hands here and there at whatever cost to my feelings . 
If there's any feeling here , it should be feeling for the man who is turned out , I think , said Mr. Frank Hawley . 
I confess I have feelings on the other side also . 
I have a divided esteem , said Dr . 
Minchin , rubbing his hands . 
I consider Mr. Tyke an exemplary man none more so and I believe him to be proposed from unimpeachable motives . 
I , for my part , wish that I could give him my vote . 
But I am constrained to take a view of the case which gives the preponderance to Mr. Farebrother's claims . 
He is an amiable man , an able preacher , and has been longer among us . 
Old Mr. Powderell looked on , sad and silent . 
Mr. Plymdale settled his cravat , uneasily . 
You don't set up Farebrother as a pattern of what a clergyman ought to be , I hope , said Mr. Larcher , the eminent carrier , who had just come in . 
I have no ill will towards him , but I think we owe something to the public , not to speak of anything higher , in these appointments . 
In my opinion Farebrother is too lax for a clergyman . 
I don't wish to bring up particulars against him but he will make a little attendance here go as far as he can . 
And a devilish deal better than too much , said Mr. Hawley , whose bad language was notorious in that part of the county . 
Sick people can't bear so much praying and preaching . 
And that methodistical sort of religion is bad for the spirits bad for the inside , eh ? he added , turning quickly round to the four medical men who were assembled . 
But any answer was dispensed with by the entrance of three gentlemen , with whom there were greetings more or less cordial . 
These were the Reverend Edward Thesiger , Rector of St . 
Lydgate was the only person still expected . 
Every one now sat down , Mr. Bulstrode presiding , pale and self restrained as usual . 
Mr. Thesiger's manner had so much quiet propriety that objectors could only simmer in silence . 
Mr. Brooke believed that everybody meant well in the matter . 
Excuse me , Mr. Hawley , said Mr. Bulstrode . 
Mr. Brooke has been fully informed of Mr. Farebrother's character and position . 
By his enemies , flashed out Mr. Hawley . 
I trust there is no personal hostility concerned here , said Mr. Thesiger . 
I'll swear there is , though , retorted Mr. Hawley . 
I don't see the good of that , said Mr. Hawley . 
I suppose we all know whom we mean to vote for . 
Any man who wants to do justice does not wait till the last minute to hear both sides of the question . 
I have no time to lose , and I propose that the matter be put to the vote at once . 
I perceive that the votes are equally divided at present , said Mr. Bulstrode , in a clear biting voice . 
Then , looking up at Lydgate There is a casting vote still to be given . 
It is yours , Mr. Lydgate will you be good enough to write ? The thing is settled now , said Mr. Wrench , rising . 
We all know how Mr. Lydgate will vote . 
You seem to speak with some peculiar meaning , sir , said Lydgate , rather defiantly , and keeping his pencil suspended . 
I merely mean that you are expected to vote with Mr. Bulstrode . 
Do you regard that meaning as offensive ? It may be offensive to others . 
But I shall not desist from voting with him on that account . 
Lydgate immediately wrote down Tyke . 
Walter Tyke became chaplain to the Infirmary , and Lydgate continued to work with Mr. Bulstrode . 
The affair of the chaplaincy remained a sore point in his memory as a case in which this petty medium of Middlemarch had been too strong for him . 
But Mr. Farebrother met him with the same friendliness as before . 
But the Vicar of St . 
The world has been to strong for ME , I know , he said one day to Lydgate . 
But then I am not a mighty man I shall never be a man of renown . 
The choice of Hercules is a pretty fable but Prodicus makes it easy work for the hero , as if the first resolves were enough . 
Another story says that he came to hold the distaff , and at last wore the Nessus shirt . 
I suppose one good resolve might keep a man right if everybody else's resolve helped him . 
Lydgate thought that there was a pitiable infirmity of will in Mr. Farebrother . 
L' altra vedete ch'ha fatto alla guancia Della sua palma , sospirando , letto . 
In those days the world in general was more ignorant of good and evil by forty years than it is at present . 
She was not looking at the sculpture , probably not thinking of it her large eyes were fixed dreamily on a streak of sunlight which fell across the floor . 
But she should be dressed as a nun I think she looks almost what you call a Quaker I would dress her as a nun in my picture . 
However , she is married I saw her wedding ring on that wonderful left hand , otherwise I should have thought the sallow Geistlicher was her father . 
I saw him parting from her a good while ago , and just now I found her in that magnificent pose . 
Only think ! he is perhaps rich , and would like to have her portrait taken . 
Ah ! it is no use looking after her there she goes ! Let us follow her home ! No , no , said his companion , with a little frown . 
You are singular , Ladislaw . 
What ! the Geistlicher ? He looks more like an uncle a more useful sort of relation . 
He is not my uncle . 
I tell you he is my second cousin , said Ladislaw , with some irritation . 
You are not angry with me for thinking Mrs. Second Cousin the most perfect young Madonna I ever saw ? Angry ? nonsense . 
I have only seen her once before , for a couple of minutes , when my cousin introduced her to me , just before I left England . 
They were not married then . 
I didn't know they were coming to Rome . 
But you will go to see them now you will find out what they have for an address since you know the name . 
Shall we go to the post ? And you could speak about the portrait . 
Confound you , Naumann ! I don't know what I shall do . 
I am not so brazen as you . 
Bah ! that is because you are dilettantish and amateurish . 
If you were an artist , you would think of Mistress Second Cousin as antique form animated by Christian sentiment a sort of Christian Antigone sensuous force controlled by spiritual passion . 
Yes , and that your painting her was the chief outcome of her existence the divinity passing into higher completeness and all but exhausted in the act of covering your bit of canvas . 
I am amateurish if you like I do NOT think that all the universe is straining towards the obscure significance of your pictures . 
Not at all the result of the struggle is the same thing picture or no picture logically . 
Will could not resist this imperturbable temper , and the cloud in his face broke into sunshiny laughter . 
Come now , my friend you will help ? said Naumann , in a hopeful tone . 
No nonsense , Naumann ! English ladies are not at everybody's service as models . 
And you want to express too much with your painting . 
You would only have made a better or worse portrait with a background which every connoisseur would give a different reason for or against . 
And what is a portrait of a woman ? Your painting and Plastik are poor stuff after all . 
They perturb and dull conceptions instead of raising them . 
Language is a finer medium . 
Yes , for those who can't paint , said Naumann . 
There you have perfect right . 
I did not recommend you to paint , my friend . 
The amiable artist carried his sting , but Ladislaw did not choose to appear stung . 
He went on as if he had not heard . 
Language gives a fuller image , which is all the better for beings vague . 
After all , the true seeing is within and painting stares at you with an insistent imperfection . 
I feel that especially about representations of women . 
As if a woman were a mere colored superficies ! You must wait for movement and tone . 
There is a difference in their very breathing they change from moment to moment . 
This woman whom you have just seen , for example how would you paint her voice , pray ? But her voice is much diviner than anything you have seen of her . 
I see , I see . 
No man must presume to think that he can paint your ideal . 
How is she to be called then ? Mrs. Casaubon . 
He was conscious of being irritated by ridiculously small causes , which were half of his own creation . 
Why was he making any fuss about Mrs. Casaubon ? And yet he felt as if something had happened to him with regard to her . 
There are characters which are continually creating collisions and nodes for themselves in dramas which nobody is prepared to act with them . 
Their susceptibilities will clash against objects that remain innocently quiet . 
A child forsaken , waking suddenly , Whose gaze afeard on all things round doth rove , And seeth only that it cannot see The meeting eyes of love . 
Two hours later , Dorothea was seated in an inner room or boudoir of a handsome apartment in the Via Sistina . 
And Mr. Casaubon was certain to remain away for some time at the Vatican . 
But this stupendous fragmentariness heightened the dreamlike strangeness of her bridal life . 
Nor can I suppose that when Mrs. Casaubon is discovered in a fit of weeping six weeks after her wedding , the situation will be regarded as tragic . 
As it is , the quickest of us walk about well wadded with stupidity . 
In this way , the early months of marriage often are times of critical tumult whether that of a shrimp pool or of deeper waters which afterwards subsides into cheerful peace . 
All these are crushing questions but whatever else remained the same , the light had changed , and you cannot find the pearly dawn at noonday . 
And it would be astonishing to find how soon the change is felt if we had no kindred changes to compare with it . 
But the door sill of marriage once crossed , expectation is concentrated on the present . 
Or , Should you like to go to the Farnesina , Dorothea ? It contains celebrated frescos designed or painted by Raphael , which most persons think it worth while to visit . 
But do you care about them ? was always Dorothea's question . 
They are , I believe , highly esteemed . 
He is the painter who has been held to combine the most complete grace of form with sublimity of expression . 
Such at least I have gathered to be the opinion of conoscenti . 
But she was gradually ceasing to expect with her former delightful confidence that she should see any wide opening where she followed him . 
And by a sad contradiction Dorothea's ideas and resolves seemed like melting ice floating and lost in the warm flood of which they had been but another form . 
Poor Dorothea ! she was certainly troublesome to herself chiefly but this morning for the first time she had been troublesome to Mr. Casaubon . 
I would fain have returned home earlier that we might have been at Lowick for the Christmas but my inquiries here have been protracted beyond their anticipated period . 
I trust , however , that the time here has not been passed unpleasantly to you . 
Among the sights of Europe , that of Rome has ever been held one of the most striking and in some respects edifying . 
Mr. Casaubon pronounced this little speech with the most conscientious intention , blinking a little and swaying his head up and down , and concluding with a smile . 
Yes , said Mr. Casaubon , with that peculiar pitch of voice which makes the word half a negative . 
I have been led farther than I had foreseen , and various subjects for annotation have presented themselves which , though I have no direct need of them , I could not pretermit . 
I fear there was a little temper in her reply . 
I hope when we get to Lowick , I shall be more useful to you , and be able to enter a little more into what interests you . 
Doubtless , my dear , said Mr. Casaubon , with a slight bow . 
The notes I have here made will want sifting , and you can , if you please , extract them under my direction . 
And all your notes , said Dorothea , whose heart had already burned within her on this subject , so that now she could not help speaking with her tongue . 
Dorothea , in a most unaccountable , darkly feminine manner , ended with a slight sob and eyes full of tears . 
She was as blind to his inward troubles as he to hers she had not yet learned those hidden conflicts in her husband which claim our pity . 
She had not yet listened patiently to his heartbeats , but only felt that her own was beating violently . 
Here , towards this particular point of the compass , Mr. Casaubon had a sensitiveness to match Dorothea's , and an equal quickness to imagine more than the fact . 
For the first time since Dorothea had known him , Mr. Casaubon's face had a quick angry flush upon it . 
This speech was delivered with an energy and readiness quite unusual with Mr. Casaubon . 
It was not indeed entirely an improvisation , but had taken shape in inward colloquy , and rushed out like the round grains from a fruit when sudden heat cracks it . 
Dorothea was not only his wife she was a personification of that shallow world which surrounds the appreciated or desponding author . 
Dorothea was indignant in her turn . 
You showed me the rows of notebooks you have often spoken of them you have often said that they wanted digesting . 
But I never heard you speak of the writing that is to be published . 
Those were very simple facts , and my judgment went no farther . 
I only begged you to let me be of some good to you . 
Dorothea rose to leave the table and Mr. Casaubon made no reply , taking up a letter which lay beside him as if to reperuse it . 
Both were shocked at their mutual situation that each should have betrayed anger towards the other . 
, but turned out to be capable of agitating him cruelly just where he most needed soothing . 
However just her indignation might be , her ideal was not to claim justice , but to give tenderness . 
She had not spirit to turn round and say that she would drive anywhere . 
There was clearly something better than anger and despondency . 
Hire facounde eke full womanly and plain , No contrefeted termes had she To semen wise . 
It was in that way Dorothea came to be sobbing as soon as she was securely alone . 
But she was presently roused by a knock at the door , which made her hastily dry her eyes before saying , Come in . 
Tantripp had brought a card , and said that there was a gentleman waiting in the lobby . 
She met Ladislaw with that exquisite smile of good will which is unmixed with vanity , and held out her hand to him . 
I was not aware that you and Mr. Casaubon were in Rome , until this morning , when I saw you in the Vatican Museum , he said . 
The signs of girlish sorrow in her face were only the more striking . 
Mr. Casaubon is much engaged but you will leave your address will you not ? and he will write to you . 
You are very good , said Ladislaw , beginning to lose his diffidence in the interest with which he was observing the signs of weeping which had altered her face . 
My address is on my card . 
But if you will allow me I will call again to morrow at an hour when Mr. Casaubon is likely to be at home . 
He goes to read in the Library of the Vatican every day , and you can hardly see him except by an appointment . 
We are about to leave Rome , and he is very busy . 
He is usually away almost from breakfast till dinner . 
But I am sure he will wish you to dine with us . 
Will Ladislaw was struck mute for a few moments . 
He had never been fond of Mr. Casaubon , and if it had not been for the sense of obligation , would have laughed at him as a Bat of erudition . 
this sudden picture stirred him with a sort of comic disgust he was divided between the impulse to laugh aloud and the equally unseasonable impulse to burst into scornful invective . 
Dorothea wondered but the smile was irresistible , and shone back from her face too . 
I am thinking of the sort of figure I cut the first time I saw you , when you annihilated my poor sketch with your criticism . 
My criticism ? said Dorothea , wondering still more . 
I always feel particularly ignorant about painting . 
I suspected you of knowing so much , that you knew how to say just what was most cutting . 
You said I dare say you don't remember it as I do that the relation of my sketch to nature was quite hidden from you . 
At least , you implied that . 
Will could laugh now as well as smile . 
That was really my ignorance , said Dorothea , admiring Will's good humor . 
I must have said so only because I never could see any beauty in the pictures which my uncle told me all judges thought very fine . 
And I have gone about with just the same ignorance in Rome . 
There are comparatively few paintings that I can really enjoy . 
But when I begin to examine the pictures one by on the life goes out of them , or else is something violent and strange to me . 
It must be my own dulness . 
I am seeing so much all at once , and not understanding half of it . 
That always makes one feel stupid . 
It is painful to be told that anything is very fine and not be able to feel that it is fine something like being blind , while people talk of the sky . 
Oh , there is a great deal in the feeling for art which must be acquired , said Will . 
Art is an old language with a great many artificial affected styles , and sometimes the chief pleasure one gets out of knowing them is the mere sense of knowing . 
I enjoy the art of all sorts here immensely but I suppose if I could pick my enjoyment to pieces I should find it made up of many different threads . 
There is something in daubing a little one's self , and having an idea of the process . 
You mean perhaps to be a painter ? said Dorothea , with a new direction of interest . 
You mean to make painting your profession ? Mr. Casaubon will like to hear that you have chosen a profession . 
No , oh no , said Will , with some coldness . 
I have quite made up my mind against it . 
It is too one sided a life . 
I have been seeing a great deal of the German artists here I travelled from Frankfort with one of them . 
Some are fine , even brilliant fellows but I should not like to get into their way of looking at the world entirely from the studio point of view . 
That I can understand , said Dorothea , cordially . 
And in Rome it seems as if there were so many things which are more wanted in the world than pictures . 
There was no mistaking this simplicity , and Will was won by it into frankness . 
A man must have a very rare genius to make changes of that sort . 
I am afraid mine would not carry me even to the pitch of doing well what has been done already , at least not so well as to make it worth while . 
And I should never succeed in anything by dint of drudgery . 
If things don't come easily to me I never get them . 
I have heard Mr. Casaubon say that he regrets your want of patience , said Dorothea , gently . 
She was rather shocked at this mode of taking all life as a holiday . 
Yes , I know Mr. Casaubon's opinion . 
The slight streak of contempt in this hasty reply offended Dorothea . 
She was all the more susceptible about Mr. Casaubon because of her morning's trouble . 
Certainly you differ , she said , rather proudly . 
I did not think of comparing you such power of persevering devoted labor as Mr. Casaubon's is not common . 
Will saw that she was offended , but this only gave an additional impulse to the new irritation of his latent dislike towards Mr. Casaubon . 
It was too intolerable that Dorothea should be worshipping this husband such weakness in a woman is pleasant to no man but the husband in question . 
Mortals are easily tempted to pinch the life out of their neighbor's buzzing glory , and think that such killing is no murder . 
No , indeed , he answered , promptly . 
If Mr. Casaubon read German he would save himself a great deal of trouble . 
I do not understand you , said Dorothea , startled and anxious . 
When I was with Mr. Casaubon I saw that he deafened himself in that direction it was almost against his will that he read a Latin treatise written by a German . 
Will only thought of giving a good pinch that would annihilate that vaunted laboriousness , and was unable to imagine the mode in which Dorothea would be wounded . 
Young Mr. Ladislaw was not at all deep himself in German writers but very little achievement is required in order to pity another man's shortcomings . 
She did not even speak , but sat looking at her hands , absorbed in the piteousness of that thought . 
I regretted it especially , he resumed , taking the usual course from detraction to insincere eulogy , because of my gratitude and respect towards my cousin . 
It would not signify so much in a man whose talents and character were less distinguished . 
But now I can be of no use . 
There was a new light , but still a mysterious light , for Will in Dorothea's last words . 
Whatever else she might be , she was not disagreeable . 
She was not coldly clever and indirectly satirical , but adorably simple and full of feeling . 
She was an angel beguiled . 
It would be a unique delight to wait and watch for the melodious fragments in which her heart and soul came forth so directly and ingenuously . 
The AEolian harp again came into his mind . 
She must have made some original romance for herself in this marriage . 
Mr. Casaubon felt a surprise which was quite unmixed with pleasure , but he did not swerve from his usual politeness of greeting , when Will rose and explained his presence . 
The first impression on seeing Will was one of sunny brightness , which added to the uncertainty of his changing expression . 
Surely , his very features changed their form , his jaw looked sometimes large and sometimes small and the little ripple in his nose was a preparation for metamorphosis . 
When he turned his head quickly his hair seemed to shake out light , and some persons thought they saw decided genius in this coruscation . 
Mr. Casaubon , on the contrary , stood rayless . 
Yet it was a source of greater freedom to her that Will was there his young equality was agreeable , and also perhaps his openness to conviction . 
She felt an immense need of some one to speak to , and she had never before seen any one who seemed so quick and pliable , so likely to understand everything . 
Ladislaw understood , and accepting the invitation immediately took his leave . 
Dorothea's eyes followed her husband anxiously , while he sank down wearily at the end of a sofa , and resting his elbow supported his head and looked on the floor . 
A little flushed , and with bright eyes , she seated herself beside him , and said Forgive me for speaking so hastily to you this morning . 
I fear I hurt you and made the day more burdensome . 
I am glad that you feel that , my dear , said Mr. Casaubon . 
He spoke quietly and bowed . 
his head a little , but there was still an uneasy feeling in his eyes as he looked at her . 
But you do forgive me ? said Dorothea , with a quick sob . 
In her need for some manifestation of feeling she was ready to exaggerate her own fault . 
Dorothea was silent , but a tear which had come up with the sob would insist on falling . 
You are excited , my dear . 
And I also am feeling some unpleasant consequences of too much mental disturbance , said Mr. Casaubon . 
There is a sort of jealousy which needs very little fire it is hardly a passion , but a blight bred in the cloudy , damp despondency of uneasy egoism . 
I think it is time for us to dress , he added , looking at his watch . 
They both rose , and there was never any further allusion between them to what had passed on this day . 
But Dorothea remembered it to the last with the vividness with which we all remember epochs in our experience when some dear expectation dies , or some new motive is born . 
Nous causames longtemps elle etait simple et bonne . 
Will Ladislaw was delightfully agreeable at dinner the next day , and gave no opportunity for Mr. Casaubon to show disapprobation . 
If Will was not always perfect , this was certainly one of his good days . 
Will would be happy to conduct them not to anything wearisome , only to a few examples . 
Will added that he had made himself Naumann's pupil for the nonce . 
I have been making some oil sketches under him , said Will . 
I must put something of my own in . 
Naumann has been painting the Saints drawing the Car of the Church , and I have been making a sketch of Marlowe's Tamburlaine Driving the Conquered Kings in his Chariot . 
I am not so ecclesiastical as Naumann , and I sometimes twit him with his excess of meaning . 
But this time I mean to outdo him in breadth of intention . 
I take Tamburlaine in his chariot for the tremendous course of the world's physical history lashing on the harnessed dynasties . 
In my opinion , that is a good mythical interpretation . 
Will here looked at Mr. Casaubon , who received this offhand treatment of symbolism very uneasily , and bowed with a neutral air . 
The sketch must be very grand , if it conveys so much , said Dorothea . 
I should need some explanation even of the meaning you give . 
Do you intend Tamburlaine to represent earthquakes and volcanoes ? Oh yes , said Will , laughing , and migrations of races and clearings of forests and America and the steam engine . 
Everything you can imagine ! What a difficult kind of shorthand ! said Dorothea , smiling towards her husband . 
It would require all your knowledge to be able to read it . 
Mr. Casaubon blinked furtively at Will . 
He had a suspicion that he was being laughed at . 
But it was not possible to include Dorothea in the suspicion . 
The painter in his confident English gave little dissertations on his finished and unfinished subjects , seeming to observe Mr. Casaubon as much as he did Dorothea . 
Some things which had seemed monstrous to her were gathering intelligibility and even a natural meaning but all this was apparently a branch of knowledge in which Mr. Casaubon had not interested himself . 
Don't speak of my painting before Naumann , said Will . 
His walk must be belles lettres . 
Naumann's pronunciation of the vowel seemed to stretch the word satirically . 
Thomas Aquinas in my picture there . 
It is too much to ask but I so seldom see just what I want the idealistic in the real . 
That is to say , if the operation will not be a lengthy one and if Mrs. Casaubon will not object to the delay . 
As for Dorothea , nothing could have pleased her more , unless it had been a miraculous voice pronouncing Mr. Casaubon the wisest and worthiest among the sons of men . 
In that case her tottering faith would have become firm again . 
Naumann's apparatus was at hand in wonderful completeness , and the sketch went on at once as well as the conversation . 
Dorothea sat down and subsided into calm silence , feeling happier than she had done for a long while before . 
The adroit artist was asking Mr. Casaubon questions about English polities , which brought long answers , and , Will meanwhile had perched himself on some steps in the background overlooking all . 
Presently Naumann said Now if I could lay this by for half an hour and take it up again come and look , Ladislaw I think it is perfect so far . 
Oh , let us stay ! said Dorothea . 
We have nothing to do to day except go about , have we ? she added , looking entreatingly at Mr. Casaubon . 
It would be a pity not to make the head as good as possible . 
I am at your service , sir , in the matter , said Mr. Casaubon , with polite condescension . 
Having given up the interior of my head to idleness , it is as well that the exterior should work in this way . 
All this was impudence and desecration , and he repented that he had brought her . 
Naumann took the hint and said Now , sir , if you can oblige me again I will release the lady wife . 
On the morrow Santa Clara too was retouched more than once . 
Will could not say just what he thought , but he became irritable . 
Oblige me by letting the subject drop , Naumann . 
Mrs. Casaubon is not to be talked of as if she were a model , said Will . 
Schon ! I will talk of my Aquinas . 
The head is not a bad type , after all . 
I dare say the great scholastic himself would have been flattered to have his portrait asked for . 
Nothing like these starchy doctors for vanity ! It was as I thought he cared much less for her portrait than his own . 
He's a cursed white blooded pedantic coxcomb , said Will , with gnashing impetuosity . 
His obligations to Mr. Casaubon were not known to his hearer , but Will himself was thinking of them , and wishing that he could discharge them all by a check . 
Naumann gave a shrug and said , It is good they go away soon , my dear . 
They are spoiling your fine temper . 
All Will's hope and contrivance were now concentrated on seeing Dorothea when she was alone . 
He only wanted her to take more emphatic notice of him he only wanted to be something more special in her remembrance than he could yet believe himself likely to be . 
He was rather impatient under that open ardent good will , reach he saw was her usual state of feeling . 
That was precisely what Will wanted . 
But there were plenty of contradictions in his imaginative demands . 
Will had not been invited to dine the next day . 
Hence he persuaded himself that he was bound to call , and that the only eligible time was the middle of the day , when Mr. Casaubon would not be at home . 
When he entered she was looking at some cameos which she had been buying for Celia . 
She greeted Will as if his visit were quite a matter of course , and said at once , having a cameo bracelet in her hand I am so glad you are come . 
Perhaps you understand all about cameos , and can tell me if these are really good . 
I wished to have you with us in choosing them , but Mr. Casaubon objected he thought there was not time . 
He will finish his work to morrow , and we shall go away in three days . 
I have been uneasy about these cameos . 
Pray sit down and look at them . 
I am not particularly knowing , but there can be no great mistake about these little Homeric bits they are exquisitely neat . 
And the color is fine it will just suit you . 
Oh , they are for my sister , who has quite a different complexion . 
You saw her with me at Lowick she is light haired and very pretty at least I think so . 
We were never so long away from each other in our lives before . 
She is a great pet and never was naughty in her life . 
I found out before I came away that she wanted me to buy her some cameos , and I should be sorry for them not to be good after their kind . 
Dorothea added the last words with a smile . 
You seem not to care about cameos , said Will , seating himself at some distance from her , and observing her while she closed the oases . 
No , frankly , I don't think them a great object in life , said Dorothea I fear you are a heretic about art generally . 
How is that ? I should have expected you to be very sensitive to the beautiful everywhere . 
I suppose I am dull about many things , said Dorothea , simply . 
I should like to make life beautiful I mean everybody's life . 
And then all this immense expense of art , that seems somehow to lie outside life and make it no better for the world , pains one . 
It spoils my enjoyment of anything when I am made to think that most people are shut out from it . 
I call that the fanaticism of sympathy , said Will , impetuously . 
You might say the same of landscape , of poetry , of all refinement . 
If you carried it out you ought to be miserable in your own goodness , and turn evil that you might have no advantage over others . 
The best piety is to enjoy when you can . 
You are doing the most then to save the earth's character as an agreeable planet . 
It is of no use to try and take care of all the world that is being taken care of when you feel delight in art or in anything else . 
Will had gone further than he intended , and checked himself . 
But Dorothea's thought was not taking just the same direction as his own , and she answered without any special emotion Indeed you mistake me . 
I am not a sad , melancholy creature . 
I am never unhappy long together . 
I am angry and naughty not like Celia I have a great outburst , and then all seems glorious again . 
I cannot help believing in glorious things in a blind sort of way . 
The painting and sculpture may be wonderful , but the feeling is often low and brutal , and sometimes even ridiculous . 
Of course there is always a great deal of poor work the rarer things want that soil to grow in . 
Oh dear , said Dorothea , taking up that thought into the chief current of her anxiety I see it must be very difficult to do anything good . 
Dorothea parted her lips again as if she were going to say more , but changed her mind and paused . 
You are too young it is an anachronism for you to have such thoughts , said Will , energetically , with a quick shake of the head habitual to him . 
You talk as if you had never known any youth . 
It is monstrous as if you had had a vision of Hades in your childhood , like the boy in the legend . 
It makes me savage to think of it ! I would rather never have seen you than think of you with such a prospect . 
It is because you did not like Lowick yourself you had set your heart on another kind of life . 
But Lowick is my chosen home . 
I wanted to ask you again about something you said the other day . 
Perhaps it was half of it your lively way of speaking I notice that you like to put things strongly I myself often exaggerate when I speak hastily . 
What was it ? said Will , observing that she spoke with a timidity quite new in her . 
I have a hyperbolical tongue it catches fire as it goes . 
I dare say I shall have to retract . 
I mean what you said about the necessity of knowing German I mean , for the subjects that Mr. Casaubon is engaged in . 
Not exactly the same materials , said Will , thinking that he would be duly reserved . 
He is not an Orientalist , you know . 
He does not profess to have more than second hand knowledge there . 
But there are very valuable books about antiquities which were written a long while ago by scholars who knew nothing about these modern things and they are still used . 
Why should Mr. Casaubon's not be valuable , like theirs ? said Dorothea , with more remonstrant energy . 
She was impelled to have the argument aloud , which she had been having in her own mind . 
That depends on the line of study taken , said Will , also getting a tone of rejoinder . 
The subject Mr. Casaubon has chosen is as changing as chemistry new discoveries are constantly making new points of view . 
She was beginning to be shocked that she had got to such a point of supposition , and indignant with Will for having led her to it . 
You questioned me about the matter of fact , not of feeling , said Will . 
But if you wish to punish me for the fact , I submit . 
I am not in a position to express my feeling toward Mr. Casaubon it would be at best a pensioner's eulogy . 
Pray excuse me , said Dorothea , coloring deeply . 
I am aware , as you say , that I am in fault in having introduced the subject . 
Indeed , I am wrong altogether . 
Failure after long perseverance is much grander than never to have a striving good enough to be called a failure . 
Mr. Casaubon's generosity has perhaps been dangerous to me , and I mean to renounce the liberty it has given me . 
I mean to go back to England shortly and work my own way depend on nobody else than myself . 
That is fine I respect that feeling , said Dorothea , with returning kindness . 
But Mr. Casaubon , I am sure , has never thought of anything in the matter except what was most for your welfare . 
She has obstinacy and pride enough to serve instead of love , now she has married him , said Will to himself . 
Aloud he said , rising I shall not see you again . 
Oh , stay till Mr. Casaubon comes , said Dorothea , earnestly . 
I am so glad we met in Rome . 
I wanted to know you . 
? And I have made you angry , said Will . 
I have made you think ill of me . 
My sister tells me I am always angry with people who do not say just what I like . 
But I hope I am not given to think ill of them . 
In the end I am usually obliged to think ill of myself . 
Still , you don't like me I have made myself an unpleasant thought to you . 
Not at all , said Dorothea , with the most open kindness . 
I like you very much . 
Will was not quite contented , thinking that he would apparently have been of more importance if he had been disliked . 
He said nothing , but looked lull , not to say sulky . 
And I am quite interested to see what you will do , Dorothea went on cheerfully . 
I believe devoutly in a natural difference of vocation . 
If it were not for that belief , I suppose I should be very narrow there are so many things , besides painting , that I am quite ignorant of . 
You would hardly believe how little I have taken in of music and literature , which you know so much of . 
I wonder what your vocation will turn out to be perhaps you will be a poet ? That depends . 
One may have that condition by fits only . 
But you leave out the poems , said Dorothea . 
I think they are wanted to complete the poet . 
I understand what you mean about knowledge passing into feeling , for that seems to be just what I experience . 
But I am sure I could never produce a poem . 
I am very glad to hear it , said Dorothea , laughing out her words in a bird like modulation , and looking at Will with playful gratitude in her eyes . 
Oh yes , said Dorothea , cordially . 
It will come and I shall remember how well you wish me . 
I quite hoped that we should be friends when I first saw you because of your relationship to Mr. Casaubon . 
There was a certain liquid brightness in her eyes , and Will was conscious that his own were obeying a law of nature and filling too . 
The allusion to Mr. Casaubon would have spoiled all if anything at that moment could have spoiled the subduing power , the sweet dignity , of her noble unsuspicious inexperience . 
And there is one thing even now that you can do , said Dorothea , rising and walking a little way under the strength of a recurring impulse . 
Promise me that you will not again , to any one , speak of that subject I mean about Mr. Casaubon's writings I mean in that kind of way . 
It was I who led to it . 
She had returned from her brief pacing and stood opposite Will , looking gravely at him . 
Certainly , I will promise you , said Will , reddening however . 
If he never said a cutting word about Mr. Casaubon again and left off receiving favors from him , it would clearly be permissible to hate him the more . 
The poet must know how to hate , says Goethe and Will was at least ready with that accomplishment . 
He said that he must go now without waiting for Mr. Casaubon , whom he would come to take leave of at the last moment . 
Dorothea gave him her hand , and they exchanged a simple Good by . 
I have something to tell you about our cousin Mr. Ladislaw , which I think will heighten your opinion of him , said Dorothea to her husband in the coarse of the evening . 
He has made up his mind to leave off wandering at once , and to give up his dependence on your generosity . 
He means soon to go back to England , and work his own way . 
I thought you would consider that a good sign , said Dorothea , with an appealing look into her husband's neutral face . 
Did he mention the precise order of occupation to which he would addict himself ? No. But he said that he felt the danger which lay for him in your generosity . 
Of course he will write to you about it . 
Do you not think better of him for his resolve ? I shall await his communication on the subject , said Mr. Casaubon . 
I told him I was sure that the thing you considered in all you did for him was his own welfare . 
Dorothea did not mention Will again . 
Your horses of the Sun , he said , And first rate whip Apollo ! Whate'er they be , I'll eat my head , But I will beat them hollow . 
Fred Vincy , we have seen . 
The creditor was Mr. Bambridge a horse dealer of the neighborhood , whose company was much sought in Middlemarch by young men understood to be addicted to pleasure . 
The total debt was a hundred and sixty pounds . 
Three months later he had renewed this bill with the signature of Caleb Garth . 
On both occasions Fred had felt confident that he should meet the bill himself , having ample funds at disposal in his own hopefulness . 
his father's pocket as a last resource , so that his assets of hopefulness had a sort of gorgeous superfluity about them . 
The easier course plainly , was to renew the bill with a friend's signature . 
had a right to be free from anything disagreeable . 
And Fred winced under the idea of being looked down upon as wanting funds for small debts . 
Thus it came to pass that the friend whom he chose to apply to was at once the poorest and the kindest namely , Caleb Garth . 
Mr. Garth had a small office in the town , and to this Fred went with his request . 
Such was Caleb's psychological argument . 
He was one of those rare men who are rigid to themselves and indulgent to others . 
I fear he was a bad disciplinarian . 
You'll be wiser another time , my boy . 
His failure in passing his examination , had made his accumulation of college debts the more unpardonable by his father , and there had been an unprecedented storm at home . 
Fred was keen enough to foresee that anger would confuse distinctions , and that his denial of having borrowed expressly on the strength of his uncle's will would be taken as a falsehood . 
He had gone to his father and told him one vexatious affair , and he had left another untold in such cases the complete revelation always produces the impression of a previous duplicity . 
and rather than incur the accusation of falsehood he would even incur some trouble and self restraint . 
It was under strong inward pressure of this kind that Fred had taken the wise step of depositing the eighty pounds with his mother . 
Fred liked play , especially billiards , as he liked hunting or riding a steeple chase and he only liked it the better because he wanted money and hoped to win . 
This horse , then , was Fred's property , and in his anxiety to meet the imminent bill he determined to sacrifice a possession without which life would certainly be worth little . 
He would ride to Houndsley with Bambridge and with Horrock the vet , and without asking them anything expressly , he should virtually get the benefit of their opinion . 
Before he set out , Fred got the eighty pounds from his mother . 
In Mr. Horrock there was certainly an apparent unfathomableness which offered play to the imagination . 
It is a physiognomy seen in all vocations , but perhaps it has never been more powerful over the youth of England than in a judge of horses . 
The part thus played in dialogue by Mr. Horrock was terribly effective . 
A mixture of passions was excited in Fred a mad desire to thrash Horrock's opinion into utterance , restrained by anxiety to retain the advantage of his friendship . 
There was always the chance that Horrock might say something quite invaluable at the right moment . 
Mr. Bambridge had more open manners , and appeared to give forth his ideas without economy . 
He was loud , robust , and was sometimes spoken of as being given to indulgence chiefly in swearing , drinking , and beating his wife . 
He was undeniably a prosperous man , bore his drinking better than others bore their moderation , and , on the whole , flourished like the green bay tree . 
In short , Mr. Bambridge was a man of pleasure and a gay companion . 
It was not Mr. Bambridge's weakness to be a gratuitous flatterer . 
If you set him cantering , he goes on like twenty sawyers . 
That was what I said . 
It went the round of the country , that joke did . 
But , what the hell ! the horse was a penny trumpet to that roarer of yours . 
Why , you said just now his was worse than mine , said Fred , more irritable than usual . 
I said a lie , then , said Mr. Bambridge , emphatically . 
There wasn't a penny to choose between 'em . 
Fred spurred his horse , and they trotted on a little way . 
When they slackened again , Mr. Bambridge said Not but what the roan was a better trotter than yours . 
For himself he only wanted a useful hack , which would draw upon occasion being about to marry and to give up hunting . 
The hunter was in a friend's stable at some little distance there was still time for gentlemen to see it before dark . 
The friend's stable had to be reached through a back street where you might as easily have been poisoned without expense of drugs as in any grim street of that unsanitary period . 
if he had not thought of buying it every one who looked at the animal even Horrock was evidently impressed with its merit . 
To get all the advantage of being with men of this sort , you must know how to draw your inferences , and not be a spoon who takes things literally . 
The color of the horse was a dappled gray , and Fred happened to know that Lord Medlicote's man was on the look out for just such a horse . 
After all his running down , Bambridge let it out in the course of the evening , when the farmer was absent , that he had seen worse horses go for eighty pounds . 
Of course he contradicted himself twenty times over , but when you know what is likely to be true you can test a man's admissions . 
And Fred could not but reckon his own judgment of a horse as worth something . 
With regard to horses , distrust was your only clew . 
The offender's sorrow brings but small relief To him who wears the strong offence's cross . 
I am sorry to say that only the third day after the propitious events at Houndsley Fred Vincy had fallen into worse spirits than he had known in his life before . 
There was no more redress for this than for the discovery of bad temper after marriage which of course old companions were aware of before the ceremony . 
He took his father's nag , for he had made up his mind that when he had told Mr. Garth , he would ride to Stone Court and confess all to Mary . 
Even much stronger mortals than Fred Vincy hold half their rectitude in the mind of the being they love best . 
The theatre of all my actions is fallen , said an antique personage when his chief friend was dead and they are fortunate who get a theatre where the audience demands their best . 
Certainly it would have made a considerable difference to Fred at that time if Mary Garth had had no decided notions as to what was admirable in character . 
We get the fonder of our houses if they have a physiognomy of their own , as our friends have . 
Not that she was inclined to sarcasm and to impulsive sallies , as Mary was . 
She had that rare sense which discerns what is unalterable , and submits to it without murmuring . 
Adoring her husband's virtues , she had very early made up her mind to his incapacity of minding his own interests , and had met the consequences cheerfully . 
Hence these fair neighbors thought her either proud or eccentric , and sometimes spoke of her to their husbands as your fine Mrs. Garth . 
On the other hand , she was disproportionately indulgent towards the failings of men , and was often heard to say that these were natural . 
She had sometimes taken pupils in a peripatetic fashion , making them follow her about in the kitchen with their book or slate . 
Certainly , the exemplary Mrs. Garth had her droll aspects , but her character sustained her oddities , as a very fine wine sustains a flavor of skin . 
But this very fact of her exceptional indulgence towards him made it the harder to Fred that he must now inevitably sink in her opinion . 
And the circumstances of his visit turned out to be still more unpleasant than he had expected for Caleb Garth had gone out early to look at some repairs not far off . 
A tub and a clothes horse at the other end of the kitchen indicated an intermittent wash of small things also going on . 
In her snowy frilled cap she reminded one of that delightful Frenchwoman whom we have all seen marketing , basket on arm . 
Not without regard to the import of the word as conveying unity or plurality of idea' tell me again what that means , Ben . 
Oh it means you must think what you mean , said Ben , rather peevishly . 
What's the use of it ? To teach you to speak and write correctly , so that you can be understood , said Mrs. Garth , with severe precision . 
Should you like to speak as old Job does ? Yes , said Ben , stoutly it's funnier . 
He says , Yo goo' that's just as good as You go . 
But he says , A ship's in the garden , instead of a sheep , said Letty , with an air of superiority . 
You might think he meant a ship off the sea . 
No , you mightn't , if you weren't silly , said Ben . 
How could a ship off the sea come there ? These things belong only to pronunciation , which is the least part of grammar , said Mrs. Garth . 
That apple peel is to be eaten by the pigs , Ben if you eat it , I must give them your piece of pasty . 
Job has only to speak about very plain things . 
What would you do then ? I shouldn't care , I should leave off , said Ben , with a sense that this was an agreeable issue where grammar was concerned . 
I see you are getting tired and stupid , Ben , said Mrs. Garth , accustomed to these obstructive arguments from her male offspring . 
Having finished her pies , she moved towards the clothes horse , and said , Come here and tell me the story I told you on Wednesday , about Cincinnatus . 
I know ! he was a farmer , said Ben . 
Now , Ben , he was a Roman let ME tell , said Letty , using her elbow contentiously . 
You silly thing , he was a Roman farmer , and he was ploughing . 
Yes , but before that that didn't come first people wanted him , said Letty . 
Well , but you must say what sort of a man he was first , insisted Ben . 
He was a wise man , like my father , and that made the people want his advice . 
And he was a brave man , and could fight . 
And so could my father couldn't he , mother ? Now , Ben , let me tell the story straight on , as mother told it us , said Letty , frowning . 
Please , mother , tell Ben not to speak . 
Letty , I am ashamed of you , said her mother , wringing out the caps from the tub . 
When your brother began , you ought to have waited to see if he could not tell the story . 
Very well , dictator ! said Ben , contemptuously . 
But that isn't a good word he didn't tell them to write on slates . 
Come , come , Ben , you are not so ignorant as that , said Mrs. Garth , carefully serious . 
Hark , there is a knock at the door ! Run , Letty , and open it . 
The knock was Fred's and when Letty said that her father was not in yet , but that her mother was in the kitchen , Fred had no alternative . 
He could not depart from his usual practice of going to see Mrs. Garth in the kitchen if she happened to be at work there . 
He put his arm round Letty's neck silently , and led her into the kitchen without his usual jokes and caresses . 
Caleb will be in again in a few minutes , said Mrs. Garth , who imagined some trouble between Fred and his father . 
He is sure not to be long , because he has some work at his desk that must be done this morning . 
No , go out now . 
But put that whip down . 
How very mean of you to whip poor old Tortoise ! Pray take the whip from him , Fred . 
Come , old boy , give it me , said Fred , putting out his hand . 
Will you let me ride on your horse to day ? said Ben , rendering up the whip , with an air of not being obliged to do it . 
Not to day another time . 
I am not riding my own horse . 
Shall you see Mary to day ? Yes , I think so , said Fred , with an unpleasant twinge . 
Tell her to come home soon , and play at forfeits , and make fun . 
Enough , enough , Ben ! run away , said Mrs. Garth , seeing that Fred was teased . 
Are Letty and Ben your only pupils now , Mrs. Garth ? said Fred , when the children were gone and it was needful to say something that would pass the time . 
Fanny Hackbutt comes at half past eleven . 
I am not getting a great income now , said Mrs. Garth , smiling . 
I am at a low ebb with pupils . 
But I have saved my little purse for Alfred's premium I have ninety two pounds . 
He can go to Mr. Hanmer's now he is just at the right age . 
This did not lead well towards the news that Mr. Garth was on the brink of losing ninety two pounds and more . 
Young gentlemen who go to college are rather more costly than that , Mrs. Garth innocently continued , pulling out the edging on a cap border . 
And Caleb thinks that Alfred will turn out a distinguished engineer he wants to give the boy a good chance . 
There he is ! I hear him coming in . 
We will go to him in the parlor , shall we ? When they entered the parlor Caleb had thrown down his hat and was seated at his desk . 
What ! Fred , my boy ! he said , in a tone of mild surprise , holding his pen still undipped you are here betimes . 
I am come to tell you and Mrs. Garth that I can't keep my word . 
I can't find the money to meet the bill after all . 
I have been unfortunate I have only got these fifty pounds towards the hundred and sixty . 
While Fred was speaking , he had taken out the notes and laid them on the desk before Mr. Garth . 
He had burst forth at once with the plain fact , feeling boyishly miserable and without verbal resources . 
Mrs. Garth was mutely astonished , and looked at her husband for an explanation . 
He made sure he could meet it himself . 
There was an evident change in Mrs. Garth's face , but it was like a change below the surface of water which remains smooth . 
She fixed her eyes on Fred , saying I suppose you have asked your father for the rest of the money and he has refused you . 
You see , I have to cut out everything like a tailor with short measure . 
What can we do , Susan ? I shall want every farthing we have in the bank . 
And I have no doubt that Mary has twenty pounds saved from her salary by this time . 
Mrs. Garth had not again looked at Fred , and was not in the least calculating what words she should use to cut him the most effectively . 
But she had made Fred feel for the first time something like the tooth of remorse . 
Indeed we are most of us brought up in the notion that the highest motive for not doing a wrong is something irrespective of the beings who would suffer the wrong . 
But at this moment he suddenly saw himself as a pitiful rascal who was robbing two women of their savings . 
I shall certainly pay it all , Mrs. Garth ultimately , he stammered out . 
Yes , ultimately , said Mrs. Garth , who having a special dislike to fine words on ugly occasions , could not now repress an epigram . 
But boys cannot well be apprenticed ultimately they should be apprenticed at fifteen . 
She had never been so little inclined to make excuses for Fred . 
I was the most in the wrong , Susan , said Caleb . 
Fred made sure of finding the money . 
But I'd no business to be fingering bills . 
I suppose you have looked all round and tried all honest means ? he added , fixing his merciful gray eyes on Fred . 
Caleb was too delicate , to specify Mr. Featherstone . 
Yes , I have tried everything I really have . 
I should have had a hundred and thirty pounds ready but for a misfortune with a horse which I was about to sell . 
I wish I and the horses too had been at the devil , before I had brought this on you . 
There's no one else I care so much for you and Mrs. Garth have always been so kind to me . 
However , it's no use saying that . 
You will always think me a rascal now . 
Fred turned round and hurried out of the room , conscious that he was getting rather womanish , and feeling confusedly that his being sorry was not of much use to the Garths . 
They could see him mount , and quickly pass through the gate . 
I am disappointed in Fred Vincy , said Mrs. Garth . 
I would not have believed beforehand that he would have drawn you into his debts . 
I was a fool , Susan That you were , said the wife , nodding and smiling . 
But I should not have gone to publish it in the market place . 
Why should you keep such things from me ? It is just so with your buttons you let them burst off without telling me , and go out with your wristband hanging . 
If I had only known I might have been ready with some better plan . 
You are sadly cut up , I know , Susan , said Caleb , looking feelingly at her . 
I can't abide your losing the money you've scraped together for Alfred . 
It is very well that I HAD scraped it together and it is you who will have to suffer , for you must teach the boy yourself . 
You must give up your bad habits . 
Some men take to drinking , and you have taken to working without pay . 
You must indulge yourself a little less in that . 
And you must ride over to Mary , and ask the child what money she has . 
Caleb had pushed his chair back , and was leaning forward , shaking his head slowly , and fitting his finger tips together with much nicety . 
Poor Mary ! he said . 
Susan , he went on in a lowered tone , I'm afraid she may be fond of Fred . 
Oh no ! She always laughs at him and he is not likely to think of her in any other than a brotherly way . 
It had laid hold of his imagination in boyhood . 
had made a philosophy for him without the aid of philosophers , a religion without the aid of theology . 
His classification of human employments was rather crude , and , like the categories of more celebrated men , would not be acceptable in these advanced times . 
He divided them into business , politics , preaching , learning , and amusement . 
He had nothing to say against the last four but he regarded them as a reverential pagan regarded other gods than his own . 
In fact , he had a reverential soul with a strong practical intelligence . 
It is no wonder , then , that the Garths were poor , and lived in a small way . 
However , they did not mind it . 
Love seeketh not itself to please , Nor for itself hath any care But for another gives its ease And builds a heaven in hell's despair . 
Love seeketh only self to please , To bind another to its delight , Joys in another's loss of ease , And builds a hell in heaven's despite . 
He left his horse in the yard to avoid making a noise on the gravel in front , and entered the parlor without other notice than the noise of the door handle . 
Mary was in her usual corner , laughing over Mrs. Piozzi's recollections of Johnson , and looked up with the fun still in her face . 
It gradually faded as she saw Fred approach her without speaking , and stand before her with his elbow on the mantel piece , looking ill . 
She too was silent , only raising her eyes to him inquiringly . 
Mary , he began , I am a good for nothing blackguard . 
I should think one of those epithets would do at a time , said Mary , trying to smile , but feeling alarmed . 
I know you will never think well of me any more . 
You will think me a liar . 
You will think me dishonest . 
You will think I didn't care for you , or your father and mother . 
You always do make the worst of me , I know . 
I cannot deny that I shall think all that of you , Fred , if you give me good reasons . 
But please to tell me at once what you have done . 
I would rather know the painful truth than imagine it . 
I owed money a hundred and sixty pounds . 
I asked your father to put his name to a bill . 
I thought it would not signify to him . 
I made sure of paying the money myself , and I have tried as hard as I could . 
And now , I have been so unlucky a horse has turned out badly I can only pay fifty pounds . 
And I can't ask my father for the money he would not give me a farthing . 
And my uncle gave me a hundred a little while ago . 
You see what a Oh , poor mother , poor father ! said Mary , her eyes filling with tears , and a little sob rising which she tried to repress . 
She looked straight before her and took no notice of Fred , all the consequences at home becoming present to her . 
He too remained silent for some moments , feeling more miserable than ever . 
I wouldn't have hurt you for the world , Mary , he said at last . 
You can never forgive me . 
What does it matter whether I forgive you ? said Mary , passionately . 
I don't want to say anything , said Mary , more quietly , and my anger is of no use . 
She dried her eyes , threw aside her book , rose and fetched her sewing . 
Fred followed her with his eyes , hoping that they would meet hers , and in that way find access for his imploring penitence . 
But no ! Mary could easily avoid looking upward . 
I do care about your mother's money going , he said , when she was seated again and sewing quickly . 
We would rather work for our money . 
Besides , you say that Mr. Featherstone has lately given you a hundred pounds . 
He rarely makes presents he has never made presents to us . 
I am sure my father will not ask him for anything and even if I chose to beg of him , it would be of no use . 
I am so miserable , Mary if you knew how miserable I am , you would be sorry for me . 
There are other things to be more sorry for than that . 
But selfish people always think their own discomfort of more importance than anything else in the world . 
I see enough of that every day . 
It is hardly fair to call me selfish . 
If you knew what things other young men do , you would think me a good way off the worst . 
I know that people who spend a great deal of money on themselves without knowing how they shall pay , must be selfish . 
They are always thinking of what they can get for themselves , and not of what other people may lose . 
Any man may be unfortunate , Mary , and find himself unable to pay when he meant it . 
There is not a better man in the world than your father , and yet he got into trouble . 
How dare you make any comparison between my father and you , Fred ? said Mary , in a deep tone of indignation . 
He never got into trouble by thinking of his own idle pleasures , but because he was always thinking of the work he was doing for other people . 
And he has fared hard , and worked hard to make good everybody's loss . 
And you think that I shall never try to make good anything , Mary . 
It is not generous to believe the worst of a man . 
When you have got any power over him , I think you might try and use it to make him better i but that is what you never do . 
However , I'm going , Fred ended , languidly . 
I shall never speak to you about anything again . 
I'm very sorry for all the trouble I've caused that's all . 
Mary had dropped her work out of her hand and looked up . 
There is often something maternal even in a girlish love , and Mary's hard experience had wrought her nature to an impressibility very different from that hard slight thing which we call girlishness . 
And when , looking up , her eyes met his dull despairing glance , her pity for him surmounted her anger and all her other anxieties . 
Oh , Fred , how ill you look ! Sit down a moment . 
Let me tell uncle that you are here . 
He has been wondering that he has not seen you for a whole week . 
Of course Fred felt as if the clouds had parted and a gleam had come he moved and stood in her way . 
Say one word , Mary , and I will do anything . 
Say you will not think the worst of me will not give me up altogether . 
As if it were any pleasure to me to think ill of you , said Mary , in a mournful tone . 
As if it were not very painful to me to see you an idle frivolous creature . 
I will try to be anything you like , Mary , if you will say that you love me . 
I should be ashamed to say that I loved a man who must always be hanging on others , and reckoning on what they would do for him . 
, and before she ended , her face had its full illumination of fun . 
You MUST see him for a moment or two . 
But if ever he actually came into the property , she must recognize the change in his position . 
All this passed through his mind somewhat languidly , before he went up to see his uncle . 
He stayed but a little while , excusing himself on the ground that he had a cold and Mary did not reappear before he left the house . 
But as he rode home , he began to be more conscious of being ill , than of being melancholy . 
After discussing prices during tea with Mr. Featherstone Caleb rose to bid him good by , and said , I want to speak to you , Mary . 
I've got something to tell you , my dear , said Caleb in his hesitating way . 
No very good news but then it might be worse . 
About money , father ? I think I know what it is . 
We wanted a hundred and ten pounds your mother has ninety two , and I have none to spare in the bank and she thinks that you have some savings . 
Oh yes I have more than four and twenty pounds . 
I thought you would come , father , so I put it in my bag . 
See ! beautiful white notes and gold . 
Mary took out the folded money from her reticule and put it into her father's hand . 
Fred told me this morning . 
Ah ! Did he come on purpose ? Yes , I think so . 
He was a good deal distressed . 
I'm afraid Fred is not to be trusted , Mary , said the father , with hesitating tenderness . 
He means better than he acts , perhaps . 
But I should think it a pity for any body's happiness to be wrapped up in him , and so would your mother . 
And so should I , father , said Mary , not looking up , but putting the back of her father's hand against her cheek . 
I don't want to pry , my dear . 
But I was afraid there might be something between you and Fred , and I wanted to caution you . 
Your mother has had to put up with a good deal because of me . 
Mary turned the back of her father's hand to her lips and smiled at him . 
That's the long and the short of it , Mary . 
But I will never engage myself to one who has no manly independence , and who goes on loitering away his time on the chance that others will provide for him . 
You and my mother have taught me too much pride for that . 
Then I am easy , said Mr. Garth , taking up his hat or bet . 
? ? ? ? But it's hard to run away with your earnings , eh child . 
Father ! said Mary , in her deepest tone of remonstrance . 
Take pocketfuls of love besides to them all at home , was her last word before he closed the outer door on himself . 
I suppose your father wanted your earnings , said old Mr. Featherstone , with his usual power of unpleasant surmise , when Mary returned to him . 
He makes but a tight fit , I reckon . 
You're of age now you ought to be saving for yourself . 
I consider my father and mother the best part of myself , sir , said Mary , coldly . 
If Fred Vincy comes to morrow , now , don't you keep him chattering let him come up to me . 
He beats me and I rail at him O worthy satisfaction ! would it were otherwise that I could beat him while he railed at me . 
But Fred did not go to Stone Court the next day , for reasons that were quite peremptory . 
Wrench came , but did not apprehend anything serious , spoke of a slight derangement , and did not speak of coming again on the morrow . 
Minchin on the other side of Tipton , the decease of Hicks , a rural practitioner , having increased Middlemarch practice in that direction . 
Great statesmen err , and why not small medical men ? Mr. Wrench did not neglect sending the usual white parcels , which this time had black and drastic contents . 
Oh , nonsense , mother ! It's nothing , said Fred , putting out his hot dry hand to her , I shall soon be all right . 
I must have taken cold in that nasty damp ride . 
, there is Mr. Lydgate , stopping to speak to some one . 
If I were you I would call him in . 
He has cured Ellen Bulstrode . 
They say he cures every one . 
Mrs. Vincy sprang to the window and opened it in an instant , thinking only of Fred and not of medical etiquette . 
Lydgate was only two yards off on the other side of some iron palisading , and turned round at the sudden sound of the sash , before she called to him . 
In two minutes he was in the room , and Rosamond went out , after waiting just long enough to show a pretty anxiety conflicting with her sense of what was becoming . 
He must go to bed immediately , must have a regular nurse , and various appliances and precautions must be used , about which Lydgate was particular . 
Poor Mrs. Vincy's terror at these indications of danger found vent in such words as came most easily . 
Why Mr. Wrench should neglect her children more than others , she could not for the life of her understand . 
He had not neglected Mrs. Larcher's when they had the measles , nor indeed would Mrs. Vincy have wished that he should . 
And if anything should happen Here poor Mrs. Vincy's spirit quite broke down , and her Niobe throat and good humored face were sadly convulsed . 
This was in the hall out of Fred's hearing , but Rosamond had opened the drawing room door , and now came forward anxiously . 
But you must come again you must go on attending Fred . 
I can't have my boy left to anybody who may come or not . 
Pray make that arrangement , Mr. Lydgate , said Rosamond , coming to her mother's aid , and supporting her arm to lead her away . 
When Mr. Vincy came home he was very angry with Wrench , and did not care if he never came into his house again . 
Lydgate should go on now , whether Wrench liked it or not . 
It was no joke to have fever in the house . 
Everybody must be sent to now , not to come to dinner on Thursday . 
And Pritchard needn't get up any wine brandy was the best thing against infection . 
I shall drink brandy , added Mr. Vincy , emphatically as much as to say , this was not an occasion for firing with blank cartridges . 
He's an uncommonly unfortunate lad , is Fred . 
He'd need have some luck by and by to make up for all this else I don't know who'd have an eldest son . 
Don't say so , Vincy , said the mother , with a quivering lip , if you don't want him to be taken from me . 
It will worret you to death , Lucy THAT I can see , said Mr. Vincy , more mildly . 
However , Wrench shall know what I think of the matter . 
I'm the last man to give in to the cry about new doctors , or new parsons either whether they're Bulstrode's men or not . 
But Wrench shall know what I think , take it as he will . 
Wrench did not take it at all well . 
Country practitioners used to be an irritable species , susceptible on the point of honor and Mr. Wrench was one of the most irritable among them . 
He did not refuse to meet Lydgate in the evening , but his temper was somewhat tried on the occasion . 
To let fever get unawares into a house like this . 
There are some things that ought to be actionable , and are not so that's my opinion . 
He swallowed his ire for the moment , but he afterwards wrote to decline further attendance in the case . 
The house might be a good one , but Mr. Wrench was not going to truckle to anybody on a professional matter . 
He threw out biting remarks on Lydgate's tricks , worthy only of a quack , to get himself a factitious reputation with credulous people . 
That cant about cures was never got up by sound practitioners . 
This was a point on which Lydgate smarted as much as Wrench could desire . 
To be puffed by ignorance was not only humiliating , but perilous , and not more enviable than the reputation of the weather prophet . 
However , Lydgate was installed as medical attendant on the Vincys , and the event was a subject of general conversation in Middlemarch . 
Some said , that the Vincys had behaved scandalously , that Mr. Vincy had threatened Wrench , and that Mrs. Vincy had accused him of poisoning her son . 
Others were of opinion that Mr. Lydgate's passing by was providential , that he was wonderfully clever in fevers , and that Bulstrode was in the right to bring him forward . 
Why , mother , said Mr. Farebrother , after an explosive laugh , you know very well that Lydgate is of a good family in the North . 
He never heard of Bulstrode before he came here . 
That is satisfactory so far as Mr. Lydgate is concerned , Camden , said the old lady , with an air of precision . 
But as to Bulstrode the report may be true of some other son . 
Let the high Muse chant loves Olympian We are but mortals , and must sing of man . 
An eminent philosopher among my friends , who can dignify even your ugly furniture by lifting it into the serene light of science , has shown me this pregnant little fact . 
These things are a parable . 
The scratches are events , and the candle is the egoism of any person now absent of Miss Vincy , for example . 
Therefore , while Miss Morgan and the children were sent away to a farmhouse the morning after Fred's illness had declared itself , Rosamond refused to leave papa and mamma . 
Poor mamma indeed was an object to touch any creature born of woman and Mr. Vincy , who doted on his wife , was more alarmed on her account than on Fred's . 
Fred's delirium , in which he seemed to be wandering out of her reach , tore her heart . 
After her first outburst against Mr. Wrench she went about very quietly her one low cry was to Lydgate . 
She would follow him out of the room and put her hand on his arm moaning out , Save my boy . 
I have good hope , Mrs. Vincy , Lydgate would say . 
Come down with me and let us talk about the food . 
There was a constant understanding between him and Rosamond on these matters . 
He almost always saw her before going to the sickroom , and she appealed to him as to what she could do for mamma . 
Especially when the critical stage was passed , and he began to feel confident of Fred's recovery . 
In the more doubtful time , he had advised calling in Dr . 
but after two consultations , the conduct of the case was left to Lydgate , and there was every reason to make him assiduous . 
The old man himself was getting bedridden . 
Not if they won't have me , mother , said Fred . 
The illness had made him childish , and tears came as he spoke . 
Oh , take a bit of jelly , my dear , said Mrs. Vincy , secretly incredulous of any such refusal . 
She never left Fred's side when her husband was not in the house , and thus Rosamond was in the unusual position of being much alone . 
Lydgate , naturally , never thought of staying long with her , yet it seemed that the brief impersonal conversations they had together were creating that peculiar intimacy which consists in shyness . 
They were obliged to look at each other in speaking , and somehow the looking could not be carried through as the matter of course which it really was . 
Lydgate began to feel this sort of consciousness unpleasant and one day looked down , or anywhere , like an ill worked puppet . 
But this turned out badly the next day , Rosamond looked down , and the consequence was that when their eyes met again , both were more conscious than before . 
There was no help for this in science , and as Lydgate did not want to flirt , there seemed to be no help for it in folly . 
It was therefore a relief when neighbors no longer considered the house in quarantine , and when the chances of seeing Rosamond alone were very much reduced . 
But that intimacy of mutual embarrassment , in which each feels that the other is feeling something , having once existed , its effect is not to be done away with . 
This was the way in which Rosamond and Lydgate slid gracefully into ease , and made their intercourse lively again . 
Visitors came and went as usual , there was once more music in the drawing room , and all the extra hospitality of Mr. Vincy's mayoralty returned . 
The preposterousness of the notion that he could at once set up a satisfactory establishment as a married man was a sufficient guarantee against danger . 
This play at being a little in love was agreeable , and did not interfere with graver pursuits . 
Flirtation , after all , was not necessarily a singeing process . 
Rosamond was proud when he entered the room , and when he approached her with a distinguishing smile , she had a delicious sense that she was the object of enviable homage . 
But Rosamond was not one of those helpless girls who betray themselves unawares , and whose behavior is awkwardly driven by their impulses , instead of being steered by wary grace and propriety . 
was a rare compound of beauty , cleverness , and amiability . 
In fact , they flirted and Lydgate was secure in the belief that they did nothing else . 
But he made some enemies , other than medical , by his success with Miss Vincy . 
One evening he came into the drawing room rather late , when several other visitors were there . 
was in tete a tete with Rosamond . 
He had also reasons , deep rather than ostensible , for being satisfied with his own appearance . 
To superficial observers his chin had too vanishing an aspect , looking as if it were being gradually reabsorbed . 
And it did indeed cause him some difficulty about the fit of his satin stocks , for which chins were at that time useful . 
I think the Honorable Mrs. S. is something like you , said Mr. Ned . 
He kept the book open at the bewitching portrait , and looked at it rather languishingly . 
She went on with her tatting all the while . 
I did not say she was as beautiful as you are , said Mr. Ned , venturing to look from the portrait to its rival . 
I suspect you of being an adroit flatterer , said Rosamond , feeling sure that she should have to reject this young gentleman a second time . 
Rosamond enjoyed not only Lydgate's presence but its effect she liked to excite jealousy . 
What a late comer you are ! she said , as they shook hands . 
Mamma had given you up a little while ago . 
How do you find Fred ? As usual going on well , but slowly . 
I want him to go away to Stone Court , for example . 
But your mamma seems to have some objection . 
Poor fellow ! said Rosamond , prettily . 
You will see Fred so changed , she added , turning to the other suitor we have looked to Mr. Lydgate as our guardian angel during this illness . 
What are you laughing at so profanely ? said Rosamond , with bland neutrality . 
You are so severe , I am frightened at you , said Rosamond , keeping her amusement duly moderate . 
Poor young Plymdale had lingered with admiration over this very engraving , and his spirit was stirred . 
There are a great many celebrated people writing in the Keepsake , at all events , he said , in a tone at once piqued and timid . 
This is the first time I have heard it called silly . 
I think I shall turn round on you and accuse you of being a Goth , said Rosamond , looking at Lydgate with a smile . 
But Sir Walter Scott I suppose Mr. Lydgate knows him , said young Plymdale , a little cheered by this advantage . 
Oh , I read no literature now , said Lydgate , shutting the book , and pushing it away . 
I read so much when I was a lad , that I suppose it will last me all my life . 
I used to know Scott's poems by heart . 
I should like to know when you left off , said Rosamond , because then I might be sure that I knew something which you did not know . 
Mr. Lydgate would say that was not worth knowing , said Mr. Ned , purposely caustic . 
On the contrary , said Lydgate , showing no smart but smiling with exasperating confidence at Rosamond . 
It would be worth knowing by the fact that Miss Vincy could tell it me . 
Young Plymdale soon went to look at the whist playing , thinking that Lydgate was one of the most conceited , unpleasant fellows it had ever been his ill fortune to meet . 
How rash you are ! said Rosamond , inwardly delighted . 
Do you see that you have given offence ? What ! is it Mr. Plymdale's book ? I am sorry . 
I didn't think about it . 
I shall begin to admit what you said of yourself when you first came here that you are a bear , and want teaching by the birds . 
Well , there is a bird who can teach me what she will . 
Don't I listen to her willingly ? To Rosamond it seemed as if she and Lydgate were as good as engaged . 
It is true , Lydgate had the counter idea of remaining unengaged but this was a mere negative , a shadow east by other resolves which themselves were capable of shrinking . 
The reveries from which it was difficult for him to detach himself were ideal constructions of something else than Rosamond's virtues , and the primitive tissue was still his fair unknown . 
The servant was Sir James Chettam's , and the house was Lowick Manor . 
All times are good to seek your wedded home Bringing a mutual delight . 
Mr. and Mrs. Casaubon , returning from their wedding journey , arrived at Lowick Manor in the middle of January . 
The distant flat shrank in uniform whiteness and low hanging uniformity of cloud . 
Mr. Casaubon , who had risen early complaining of palpitation , was in the library giving audience to his curate Mr. Tucker . 
The duties of her married life , contemplated as so great beforehand , seemed to be shrinking with the furniture and the white vapor walled landscape . 
In this solemnly pledged union of her life , duty would present itself in some new form of inspiration and give a new meaning to wifely love . 
What shall I do ? Whatever you please , my dear that had been her brief history since she had left off learning morning lessons and practising silly rhythms on the hated piano . 
In the first minutes when Dorothea looked out she felt nothing but the dreary oppression then came a keen remembrance , and turning away from the window she walked round the room . 
Dorothea could fancy that it was alive now the delicate woman's face which yet had a headstrong look , a peculiarity difficult to interpret . 
Here was a woman who had known some difficulty about marriage . 
Perhaps Mr. Tucker was gone and Mr. Casaubon was alone in the library . 
She felt as if all her morning's gloom would vanish if she could see her husband glad because of her presence . 
But when she reached the head of the dark oak there was Celia coming up , and below there was Mr. Brooke , exchanging welcomes and congratulations with Mr. Casaubon . 
Dodo ! said Celia , in her quiet staccato then kissed her sister , whose arms encircled her , and said no more . 
I think they both cried a little in a furtive manner , while Dorothea ran down stairs to greet her uncle . 
I need not ask how you are , my dear , said Mr. Brooke , after kissing her forehead . 
Rome has agreed with you , I see happiness , frescos , the antique that sort of thing . 
Studying hard in his holidays is carrying it rather too far . 
You may go any length in that sort of thing , and nothing may come of it , you know . 
Nothing to alarm you , my dear , said Mr. Brooke , observing her expression . 
A little English beef and mutton will soon make a difference . 
It was all very well to look pale , sitting for the portrait of Aquinas , you know we got your letter just in time . 
You would like coffee in your own room , uncle ? said Dorothea , coming to the rescue . 
Yes and you must go to Celia she has great news to tell you , you know . 
I leave it all to her . 
Do you think it nice to go to Rome on a wedding journey ? said Celia , with her ready delicate blush which Dorothea was used to on the smallest occasions . 
It would not suit all not you , dear , for example , said Dorothea , quietly . 
No one would ever know what she thought of a wedding journey to Rome . 
Mrs. Cadwallader says it is nonsense , people going a long journey when they are married . 
She says they get tired to death of each other , and can't quarrel comfortably , as they would at home . 
And Lady Chettam says she went to Bath . 
Celia's color changed again and again seemed To come and go with tidings from the heart , As it a running messenger had been . 
It must mean more than Celia's blushing usually did . 
Celia ! has something happened ? said Dorothea , in a tone full of sisterly feeling . 
Have you really any great news to tell me ? It was because you went away , Dodo . 
Then there was nobody but me for Sir James to talk to , said Celia , with a certain roguishness in her eyes . 
It is as I used to hope and believe , said Dorothea , taking her sister's face between her hands , and looking at her half anxiously . 
Celia's marriage seemed more serious than it used to do . 
It was only three days ago , said Celia . 
And Lady Chettam is very kind . 
And you are very happy ? Yes . 
We are not going to be married yet . 
Because every thing is to be got ready . 
And I don't want to be married so very soon , because I think it is nice to be engaged . 
And we shall be married all our lives after . 
I do believe you could not marry better , Kitty . 
Sir James is a good , honorable man , said Dorothea , warmly . 
He has gone on with the cottages , Dodo . 
He will tell you about them when he comes . 
Shall you be glad to see him ? Of course I shall . 
I found that no genius in another could please me . 
My unfortunate paradoxes had entirely dried up that source of comfort . 
He had done nothing exceptional in marrying nothing but what society sanctions , and considers an occasion for wreaths and bouquets . 
Providence , in its kindness , had supplied him with the wife he needed . 
A wife , a modest young lady , with the purely appreciative , unambitious abilities of her sex , is sure to think her husband's mind powerful . 
Whether Providence had taken equal care of Miss Brooke in presenting her with Mr. Casaubon was an idea which could hardly occur to him . 
Society never made the preposterous demand that a man should think as much about his own qualifications for making a charming girl happy as he thinks of hers for making himself happy . 
He had not had much foretaste of happiness in his previous life . 
To know intense joy without a strong bodily frame , one must have an enthusiastic soul . 
For my part I am very sorry for him . 
Becoming a dean or even a bishop would make little difference , I fear , to Mr. Casaubon's uneasiness . 
Inclination yearned back to its old , easier custom . 
And the deeper he went in domesticity the more did the sense of acquitting himself and acting with propriety predominate over any other satisfaction . 
Marriage , like religion and erudition , nay , like authorship itself , was fated to become an outward requirement , and Edward Casaubon was bent on fulfilling unimpeachably all requirements . 
References were extensive even here , but not altogether shoreless and sentences were actually to be written in the shape wherein they would be scanned by Brasenose and a less formidable posterity . 
Celia at this time was on a second visit to Lowick , probably the last before her marriage , and was in the drawing room expecting Sir James . 
Dorothea had learned to read the signs of her husband's mood , and she saw that the morning had become more foggy there during the last hour . 
It was a letter of two pages , and she immediately looked at the signature . 
Mr. Ladislaw ! What can he have to say to me ? she exclaimed , in a tone of pleased surprise . 
But , she added , looking at Mr. Casaubon , I can imagine what he has written to you about . 
You can , if you please , read the letter , said Mr. Casaubon , severely pointing to it with his pen , and not looking at her . 
But I may as well say beforehand , that I must decline the proposal it contains to pay a visit here . 
Pity , that new born babe which was by and by to rule many a storm within her , did not stride the blast on this occasion . 
With her first words , uttered in a tone that shook him , she startled Mr. Casaubon into looking at her , and meeting the flash of her eyes . 
Why do you attribute to me a wish for anything that would annoy you ? You speak to me as if I were something you had to contend against . 
Wait at least till I appear to consult my own pleasure apart from yours . 
Dorothea , you are hasty , answered Mr. Casaubon , nervously . 
Decidedly , this woman was too young to be on the formidable level of wifehood unless she had been pale and feature less and taken everything for granted . 
I think it was you who were first hasty in your false suppositions about my feeling , said Dorothea , in the same tone . 
The fire was not dissipated yet , and she thought it was ignoble in her husband not to apologize to her . 
We will , if you please , say no more on this subject , Dorothea . 
I have neither leisure nor energy for this kind of debate . 
She did not in the least divine the subtle sources of her husband's bad temper about these letters she only knew that they had caused him to offend her . 
She started up and bounded towards him in an instant he was evidently in great straits for breath . 
Good God ! this is just what might have been expected , was his immediate thought . 
If his prophetic soul had been urged to particularize , it seemed to him that fits would have been the definite expression alighted upon . 
He asked his informant , the butler , whether the doctor had been sent for . 
I recommend you to send for Lydgate , said Sir James . 
My mother has called him in , and she has found him uncommonly clever . 
She has had a poor opinion of the physicians since my father's death . 
Dorothea appealed to her husband , and he made a silent sign of approval . 
Celia , in the drawing room , had known nothing of the trouble till Sir James told her of it . 
After Dorothea's account , he no longer considered the illness a fit , but still something of that nature . 
Poor dear Dodo how dreadful ! said Celia , feeling as much grieved as her own perfect happiness would allow . 
Her little hands were clasped , and enclosed by Sir James's as a bud is enfolded by a liberal calyx . 
It is very shocking that Mr. Casaubon should be ill but I never did like him . 
But poor Dodo never did do what other people do , and I think she never will . 
She is a noble creature , said the loyal hearted Sir James . 
He had just had a fresh impression of this kind , as he had seen Dorothea stretching her tender arm under her husband's neck and looking at him with unspeakable sorrow . 
He did not know how much penitence there was in the sorrow . 
Yes , said Celia , thinking it was very well for Sir James to say so , but HE would not have been comfortable with Dodo . 
While Celia was gone he walked up and down remembering what he had originally felt about Dorothea's engagement , and feeling a revival of his disgust at Mr. Brooke's indifference . 
If Cadwallader if every one else had regarded the affair as he , Sir James , had done , the marriage might have been hindered . 
It was wicked to let a young girl blindly decide her fate in that way , without any effort to save her . 
Sir James had long ceased to have any regrets on his own account his heart was satisfied with his engagement to Celia . 
his disregarded love had not turned to bitterness its death had made sweet odors floating memories that clung with a consecrating effect to Dorothea . 
He could remain her brotherly friend , interpreting her actions with generous trustfulness . 
Qui veut delasser hors de propos , lasse . 
Mr. Casaubon had no second attack of equal severity with the first , and in a few days began to recover his usual condition . 
But Lydgate seemed to think the case worth a great deal of attention . 
, but sat quietly by his patient and watched him . 
In short , you recommend me to anticipate the arrival of my second childhood , said poor Mr. Casaubon , with some bitterness . 
These things , he added , looking at Lydgate , would be to me such relaxation as tow picking is to prisoners in a house of correction . 
I confess , said Lydgate , smiling , amusement is rather an unsatisfactory prescription . 
It is something like telling people to keep up their spirits . 
Perhaps I had better say , that you must submit to be mildly bored rather than to go on working . 
Yes , yes , said Mr. Brooke . 
Get Dorothea to play back . 
gammon with you in the evenings . 
And shuttlecock , now I don't know a finer game than shuttlecock for the daytime . 
I remember it all the fashion . 
To be sure , your eyes might not stand that , Casaubon . 
But you must unbend , you know . 
Why , you might take to some light study conchology , now it always think that must be a light study . 
Or get Dorothea to read you light things , Smollett Roderick Random , Humphrey Clinker they are a little broad , but she may read anything now she's married , you know . 
I remember they made me laugh uncommonly there's a droll bit about a postilion's breeches . 
We have no such humor now . 
I have gone through all these things , but they might be rather new to you . 
As new as eating thistles , would have been an answer to represent Mr. Casaubon's feelings . 
But he only bowed resignedly , with due respect to his wife's uncle , and observed that doubtless the works he mentioned had served as a resource to a certain order of minds . 
I would never give way to that I was always versatile . 
But a clergyman is tied a little tight . 
If they would make him a bishop , now ! he did a very good pamphlet for Peel . 
He would have more movement then , more show he might get a little flesh . 
But I recommend you to talk to Mrs. Casaubon . 
She is clever enough for anything , is my niece . 
Tell her , her husband wants liveliness , diversion put her on amusing tactics . 
Without Mr. Brooke's advice , Lydgate had determined on speaking to Dorothea . 
A medical man likes to make psychological observations , and sometimes in the pursuit of such studies is too easily tempted into momentous prophecy which life and death easily set at nought . 
Lydgate had often been satirical on this gratuitous prediction , and he meant now to be guarded . 
It was the first time she had entered this room since her husband had been taken ill , and the servant had chosen not to open the shutters . 
But there was light enough to read by from the narrow upper panes of the windows . 
You will not mind this sombre light , said Dorothea , standing in the middle of the room . 
Since you forbade books , the library has been out of the question . 
But Mr. Casaubon will soon be here again , I hope . 
Is he not making progress ? Yes , much more rapid progress than I at first expected . 
Indeed , he is already nearly in his usual state of health . 
You do not fear that the illness will return ? said Dorothea , whose quick ear had detected some significance in Lydgate's tone . 
Such cases are peculiarly difficult to pronounce upon , said Lydgate . 
I beseech you to speak quite plainly , said Dorothea , in an imploring tone . 
I cannot bear to think that there might be something which I did not know , and which , if I had known it , would have made me act differently . 
The words came out like a cry it was evident that they were the voice of some mental experience which lay not very far off . 
What you say now justifies my own view , said Lydgate . 
I think it is one's function as a medical man to hinder regrets of that sort as far as possible . 
But I beg you to observe that Mr. Casaubon's case is precisely of the kind in which the issue is most difficult to pronounce upon . 
He may possibly live for fifteen years or more , without much worse health than he has had hitherto . 
Dorothea had turned very pale , and when Lydgate paused she said in a low voice , You mean if we are very careful . 
Yes careful against mental agitation of all kinds , and against excessive application . 
He would be miserable , if he had to give up his work , said Dorothea , with a quick prevision of that wretchedness . 
I am aware of that . 
The only course is to try by all means , direct and indirect , to moderate and vary his occupations . 
On the other hand , it is possible that the disease may develop itself more rapidly it is one of those eases in which death is sometimes sudden . 
Nothing should be neglected which might be affected by such an issue . 
Help me , pray , she said , at last , in the same low voice as before . 
Tell me what I can do . 
What do you think of foreign travel ? You have been lately in Rome , I think . 
The memories which made this resource utterly hopeless were a new current that shook Dorothea out of her pallid immobility . 
Oh , that would not do that would be worse than anything , she said with a more childlike despondency , while the tears rolled down . 
Nothing will be of any use that he does not enjoy . 
I wish that I could have spared you this pain , said Lydgate , deeply touched , yet wondering about her marriage . 
Women just like Dorothea had not entered into his traditions . 
It was right of you to tell me . 
I thank you for telling me the truth . 
I wish you to understand that I shall not say anything to enlighten Mr. Casaubon himself . 
I think it desirable for him to know nothing more than that he must not overwork him self , and must observe certain rules . 
Anxiety of any kind would be precisely the most unfavorable condition for him . 
Lydgate rose , and Dorothea mechanically rose at the same time ? unclasping her cloak and throwing it off as if it stifled her . 
Think what I can do . 
He has been laboring all his life and looking forward . 
He minds about nothing else . 
But what could he say now except that he should see Mr. Casaubon again to morrow ? When he was gone , Dorothea's tears gushed forth , and relieved her stifling oppression . 
On his writing table there were letters which had lain untouched since the morning when he was taken ill , and among them , as Dorothea . 
well remembered , there were young Ladislaw's letters , the one addressed to her still unopened . 
Will wrote from Rome , and began by saying that his obligations to Mr. Casaubon were too deep for all thanks not to seem impertinent . 
It was plain that if he were not grateful , he must be the poorest spirited rascal who had ever found a generous friend . 
To expand in wordy thanks would be like saying , I am honest . 
He was coming to England , to try his fortune , as many other young men were obliged to do whose only capital was in their brains . 
A letter addressed to the Poste Restante in Paris within the fortnight would hinder him , if necessary , from arriving at an inconvenient moment . 
He enclosed a letter to Mrs. Casaubon in which he continued a discussion about art , begun with her in Rome . 
She had immediately to consider what was to be done about the other letter there was still time perhaps to prevent Will from coming to Lowick . 
He had simply said to Dorothea To be sure , I will write , my dear . 
He's a very clever young fellow this young Ladislaw I dare say will be a rising young man . 
It's a good letter marks his sense of things , you know . 
However , I will tell him about Casaubon . 
But the end of Mr. Brooke's pen was a thinking organ , evolving sentences , especially of a benevolent kind , before the rest of his mind could well overtake them . 
In this case , his pen found it such a pity young Ladislaw should not have come into the neighborhood . 
Then shall the huge bell tremble then the mass With myriad waves concurrent shall respond In low soft unison . 
Lydgate that evening spoke to Miss Vincy of Mrs. Casaubon , and laid some emphasis on the strong feeling she appeared to have for that formal studious man thirty years older than herself . 
Do you think her very handsome ? She certainly is handsome , but I have not thought about it , said Lydgate . 
I suppose it would be unprofessional , said Rosamond , dimpling . 
But how your practice is spreading ! You were called in before to the Chettams , I think and now , the Casaubons . 
Yes , said Lydgate , in a tone of compulsory admission . 
But I don't really like attending such people so well as the poor . 
The cases are more monotonous , and one has to go through more fuss and listen more deferentially to nonsense . 
Not more than in Middlemarch , said Rosamond . 
And at least you go through wide corridors and have the scent of rose leaves everywhere . 
But this agreeable holiday freedom with which Lydgate hovered about the flower of Middlemarch , could not continue indefinitely . 
Aunt Bulstrode , for example , came a little oftener into Lowick Gate to see Rosamond , now she was alone . 
For Mrs. Bulstrode had a true sisterly feeling for her brother always thinking that he might have married better , but wishing well to the children . 
Now Mrs. Bulstrode had a long standing intimacy with Mrs. Plymdale . 
Mrs. Bulstrode , paying a morning visit to Mrs. Plymdale , happened to say that she could not stay longer , because she was going to see poor Rosamond . 
Why do you say poor Rosamond' ? said Mrs. Plymdale , a round eyed sharp little woman , like a tamed falcon . 
She is so pretty , and has been brought up in such thoughtlessness . 
The mother , you know , had always that levity about her , which makes me anxious for the children . 
Selina , what do you mean ? said Mrs. Bulstrode , in genuine surprise . 
Not but what I am truly thankful for Ned's sake , said Mrs. Plymdale . 
He could certainly better afford to keep such a wife than some people can but I should wish him to look elsewhere . 
Still a mother has anxieties , and some young men would take to a bad life in consequence . 
Besides , if I was obliged to speak , I should say I was not fond of strangers coming into a town . 
I don't know , Selina , said Mrs. Bulstrode , with a little emphasis in her turn . 
Mr. Bulstrode was a stranger here at one time . 
Abraham and Moses were strangers in the land , and we are told to entertain strangers . 
And especially , she added , after a slight pause , when they are unexceptionable . 
I was not speaking in a religious sense , Harriet . 
I spoke as a mother . 
Selina , I am sure you have never heard me say anything against a niece of mine marrying your son . 
Oh , it is pride in Miss Vincy I am sure it is nothing else , said Mrs. Plymdale , who had never before given all her confidence to Harriet on this subject . 
No young man in Middlemarch was good enough for her I have heard her mother say as much . 
That is not a Christian spirit , I think . 
But now , from all I hear , she has found a man AS proud as herself . 
You see so many people that I don't see . 
Your circle is rather different from ours . 
I don't believe there can be anything serious at present , said Mrs. Bulstrode . 
My brother would certainly have told me . 
Well , people have different ways , but I understand that nobody can see Miss Vincy and Mr. Lydgate together without taking them to be engaged . 
However , it is not my business . 
Shall I put up the pattern of mittens ? After this Mrs. Bulstrode drove to her niece with a mind newly weighted . 
Mrs. Bulstrode was a feminine smaller edition of her brother , and had none of her husband's low toned pallor . 
She had a good honest glance and used no circumlocution . 
You are alone , I see , my dear , she said , as they entered the drawing room together , looking round gravely . 
Rosamond felt sure that her aunt had something particular to say , and they sat down near each other . 
I have just heard something about you that has surprised me very much , Rosamond . 
What is that , aunt ? Rosamond's eyes also were roaming over her aunt's large embroidered collar . 
I can hardly believe it that you should be engaged without my knowing it without your father's telling me . 
Here Mrs. Bulstrode's eyes finally rested on Rosamond's , who blushed deeply , and said I am not engaged , aunt . 
Oh , my dear , be more thoughtful don't despise your neighbors so . 
Remember you are turned twenty two now , and you will have no fortune your father , I am sure , will not be able to spare you anything . 
Mr. Lydgate is very intellectual and clever I know there is an attraction in that . 
I like talking to such men myself and your uncle finds him very useful . 
But the profession is a poor one here . 
To be sure , this life is not everything but it is seldom a medical man has true religious views there is too much pride of intellect . 
And you are not fit to marry a poor man . 
Mr. Lydgate is not a poor man , aunt . 
He has very high connections . 
He told me himself he was poor . 
That is because he is used to people who have a high style My dear Rosamond , YOU must not think of living in high style . 
Rosamond looked down and played with her reticule . 
She was not a fiery young lady and had no sharp answers , but she meant to live as she pleased . 
Then it is really true ? said Mrs. Bulstrode , looking very earnestly at her niece . 
You are thinking of Mr. Lydgate there is some understanding between you , though your father doesn't know . 
Be open , my dear Rosamond Mr. Lydgate has really made you an offer ? Poor Rosamond's feelings were very unpleasant . 
She had been quite easy as to Lydgate's feeling and intention , but now when her aunt put this question she did not like being unable to say Yes . 
Her pride was hurt , but her habitual control of manner helped her . 
Pray excuse me , aunt . 
I would rather not speak on the subject . 
You would not give your heart to a man without a decided prospect , I trust , my dear . 
And think of the two excellent offers I know of that you have refused ! and one still within your reach , if you will not throw it away . 
I knew a very great beauty who married badly at last , by doing so . 
Mr. Ned Plymdale is a nice young man some might think good looking and an only son and a large business of that kind is better than a profession . 
Not that marrying is everything I would have you seek first the kingdom of God . 
But a girl should keep her heart within her own power . 
I should never give it to Mr. Ned Plymdale , if it were . 
I have already refused him . 
If I loved , I should love at once and without change , said Rosamond , with a great sense of being a romantic heroine , and playing the part prettily . 
I see how it is , my dear , said Mrs. Bulstrode , in a melancholy voice , rising to go . 
You have allowed your affections to be engaged without return . 
No , indeed , aunt , said Rosamond , with emphasis . 
Then you are quite confident that Mr. Lydgate has a serious attachment to you ? Rosamond's cheeks by this time were persistently burning , and she felt much mortification . 
She chose to be silent , and her aunt went away all the more convinced . 
The result was a decided negative . 
Mr. Bulstrode , on being cross questioned , showed that Lydgate had spoken as no man would who had any attachment that could issue in matrimony . 
Young men were often wild and disappointing , making little return for the money spent on them , and a girl was exposed to many circumstances which might interfere with her prospects . 
I think it is a heavy responsibility , Mr. Lydgate , to interfere with the prospects of any girl . 
Here Mrs. Bulstrode fixed her eyes on him , with an unmistakable purpose of warning , if not of rebuke . 
Clearly , said Lydgate , looking at her perhaps even staring a little in return . 
Oh , Mr. Lydgate , you know well what your advantages are . 
You know that our young men here cannot cope with you . 
Where you frequent a house it may militate very much against a girl's making a desirable settlement in life , and prevent her from accepting offers even if they are made . 
Lydgate was less flattered by his advantage over the Middlemarch Orlandos than he was annoyed by the perception of Mrs. Bulstrode's meaning . 
It would not have been decent to go away , because he had been dining with other guests , and had just taken tea . 
But Mrs. Bulstrode , having no doubt that she had been understood , turned the conversation . 
Solomon's Proverbs , I think , have omitted to say , that as the sore palate findeth grit , so an uneasy consciousness heareth innuendoes . 
The next day Mr. Farebrother , parting from Lydgate in the street , supposed that they should meet at Vincy's in the evening . 
Lydgate answered curtly , no he had work to do he must give up going out in the evening . 
What ! you are going to get lashed to the mast , eh , and are stopping your ears ? said the Vicar . 
Well , if you don't mean to be won by the sirens , you are right to take precautions in time . 
A few days before , Lydgate would have taken no notice of these words as anything more than the Vicar's usual way of putting things . 
She had an exquisite tact and insight in relation to all points of manners but the people she lived among were blunderers and busybodies . 
However , the mistake should go no farther . 
He resolved and kept his resolution that he would not go to Mr. Vincy's except on business . 
The world would have a new dreariness for her , as a wilderness that a magician's spells had turned for a little while into a garden . 
Poor Rosamond lost her appetite and felt as forlorn as Ariadne as a charming stage Ariadne left behind with all her boxes full of costumes and no hope of a coach . 
There are many wonderful mixtures in the world which are all alike called love , and claim the privileges of a sublime rage which is an apology for everything . 
Happily Rosamond did not think of committing any desperate act she plaited her fair hair as beautifully as usual , and kept herself proudly calm . 
Her most cheerful supposition was that her aunt Bulstrode had interfered in some way to hinder Lydgate's visits everything was better than a spontaneous indifference in him . 
Now Lydgate might have called at the warehouse , or might have written a message on a leaf of his pocket book and left it at the door . 
A man may , from various motives , decline to give his company , but perhaps not even a sage would be gratified that nobody missed him . 
In all failures , the beginning is certainly the half of the whole . 
Lydgate instantaneously stooped to pick up the chain . 
But as he raised his eyes now he saw a certain helpless quivering which touched him quite newly , and made him look at Rosamond with a questioning flash . 
That moment of naturalness was the crystallizing feather touch it shook flirtation into love . 
Remember that the ambitious man who was looking at those Forget me nots under the water was very warm hearted and rash . 
His words were quite abrupt and awkward but the tone made them sound like an ardent , appealing avowal . 
What is the matter ? you are distressed . 
Rosamond had never been spoken to in such tones before . 
I am not sure that she knew what the words were but she looked at Lydgate and the tears fell over her cheeks . 
This was a strange way of arriving at an understanding , but it was a short way . 
Rosamond was not angry , but she moved backward a little in timid happiness , and Lydgate could now sit near her and speak less incompletely . 
Rosamond had to make her little confession , and he poured out words of gratitude and tenderness with impulsive lavishment . 
In half an hour he left the house an engaged man , whose soul was not his own , but the woman's to whom he had bound himself . 
The felicitous word demise , which had seasonably occurred to him , had raised his spirits even above their usual evening pitch . 
The right word is always a power , and communicates its definiteness to our action . 
They'll take suggestion as a cat laps milk . 
They knew Peter's maxim , that money was a good egg , and should be laid in a warm nest . 
But Brother Jonah , Sister Martha , and all the needy exiles , held a different point of view . 
To the poorer and least favored it seemed likely that since Peter had done nothing for them in his life , he would remember them at the last . 
At any rate some blood relations should be on the premises and on the watch against those who were hardly relations at all . 
Such things had been known as forged wills and disputed wills , which seemed to have the golden hazy advantage of somehow enabling non legatees to live out of them . 
Again , those who were no blood relations might be caught making away with things and poor Peter lying there helpless ! Somebody should be on the watch . 
Oh , my dear , you must do things handsomely where there's last illness and a property . 
God knows , I don't grudge them every ham in the house only , save the best for the funeral . 
Have some stuffed veal always , and a fine cheese in cut . 
You must expect to keep open house in these last illnesses , said liberal Mrs. Vincy , once more of cheerful note and bright plumage . 
But some of the visitors alighted and did not depart after the handsome treating to veal and ham . 
He chose the kitchen corner , partly because he liked it best , and partly because he did not want to sit with Solomon , concerning whom he had a strong brotherly opinion . 
The troublesome ones in a family are usually either the wits or the idiots . 
This was rather too much for poor Mary sometimes it made her bilious , sometimes it upset her gravity . 
Tom looked at his legs , but left it uncertain whether he preferred his moral advantages to a more vicious length of limb and reprehensible gentility of trouser . 
In the large wainscoted parlor too there were constantly pairs of eyes on the watch , and own relatives eager to be sitters up . 
and giving occasional dry wrinkly indications of crying as if capable of torrents in a wetter season at the thought that they were not allowed to go into Mr. Featherstone's room . 
For the old man's dislike of his own family seemed to get stronger as he got less able to amuse himself by saying biting things to them . 
Too languid to sting , he had the more venom refluent in his blood . 
Old Featherstone no sooner caught sight of these funereal figures appearing in spite of his orders than rage came to strengthen him more successfully than the cordial . 
He was propped up on a bed rest , and always had his gold headed stick lying by him . 
Peter , Mrs. Waule began but Solomon put his hand before her repressingly . 
Brother Peter , he said , in a wheedling yet gravely official tone , It's nothing but right I should speak to you about the Three Crofts and the Manganese . 
There's things you might repent of , Brother , for want of speaking to me , said Solomon , not advancing , however . 
I could sit up with you to night , and Jane with me , willingly , and you might take your own time to speak , or let me speak . 
Yes , I shall take my own time you needn't offer me yours , said Peter . 
But you can't take your own time to die in , Brother , began Mrs. Waule , with her usual woolly tone . 
No , I shan't , said old Featherstone , contradictiously . 
I shan't think of any of you . 
I've made my will , I tell you , I've made my will . 
Here he turned his head towards Mrs. Vincy , and swallowed some more of his cordial . 
Some people would be ashamed to fill up a place belonging by rights to others , said Mrs. Waule , turning her narrow eyes in the same direction . 
Good by , Solomon , he added , trying to wield his stick again , but failing now that he had reversed the handle . 
Good by , Mrs. Waule . 
I shall be down stairs , Brother , whether or no , said Solomon . 
I shall do my duty , and it remains to be seen what the Almighty will allow . 
Yes , in property going out of families , said Mrs. Waule , in continuation , and where there's steady young men to carry on . 
But I pity them who are not such , and I pity their mothers . 
Good by , Brother Peter . 
But I bid you good by for the present . 
Solomon and Jane would have been sorry to be quick what that led to might be seen on the other side of the wall in the person of Brother Jonah . 
But their watch in the wainscoted parlor was sometimes varied by the presence of other guests from far or near . 
Hence she had her share of compliments and polite attentions . 
His admiration was far from being confined to himself , but was accustomed professionally as well as privately to delight in estimating things at a high rate . 
It's not necessary for you to go out let me ring the bell . 
Thank you , said Mary , I have an errand . 
Well , Mr. Trumbull , you're highly favored , said Mrs. Waule . 
What ! seeing the old man ? said the auctioneer , playing with his seals dispassionately . 
Ah , you see he has relied on me considerably . 
Here he pressed his lips together , and frowned meditatively . 
Oh yes , anybody may ask , said Mr. Trumbull , with loud and good humored though cutting sarcasm . 
Any one may give their remarks an interrogative turn , he continued , his sonorousness rising with his style . 
This is constantly done by good speakers , even when they anticipate no answer . 
It is what we call a figure of speech speech at a high figure , as one may say . 
The eloquent auctioneer smiled at his own ingenuity . 
I shouldn't be sorry to hear he'd remembered you , Mr. Trumbull , said Solomon . 
I never was against the deserving . 
It's the undeserving I'm against . 
Ah , there it is , you see , there it is , said Mr. Trumbull , significantly . 
It can't be denied that undeserving people have been legatees , and even residuary legatees . 
It is so , with testamentary dispositions . 
Again he pursed up his lips and frowned a little . 
A man might as well turn his land into charity land at once as leave it to some people , observed Solomon , his sister's question having drawn no answer . 
What , Blue Coat land ? said Mrs. Waule , again . 
Oh , Mr. Trumbull , you never can mean to say that . 
It would be flying in the face of the Almighty that's prospered him . 
or the Maiden of the Mist , by the author of Waverley . 
Mr. Borthrop Trumbull really knew nothing about old Featherstone's will but he could hardly have been brought to declare any ignorance unless he had been arrested for misprision of treason . 
I shall take a mere mouthful of ham and a glass of ale , he said , reassuringly . 
As a man with public business , I take a snack when I can . 
I will back this ham , he added , after swallowing some morsels with alarming haste , against any ham in the three kingdoms . 
In my opinion it is better than the hams at Freshitt Hall and I think I am a tolerable judge . 
Some don't like so much sugar in their hams , said Mrs. Waule . 
But my poor brother would always have sugar . 
There is some gratification to a gentleman here Mr. Trumbull's voice conveyed an emotional remonstrance in having this kind of ham set on his table . 
You have an interesting work there , I see , Miss Garth , he observed , when Mary re entered . 
It is by the author of Waverley' that is Sir Walter Scott . 
I have bought one of his works myself a very nice thing , a very superior publication , entitled Ivanhoe . 
You will not get any writer to beat him in a hurry , I think he will not , in my opinion , be speedily surpassed . 
I have just been reading a portion at the commencement of Anne of Jeersteen . 
You are a reader , I see . 
Do you subscribe to our Middlemarch library ? No , said Mary . 
Mr. Fred Vincy brought this book . 
I am a great bookman myself , returned Mr. Trumbull . 
I have no less than two hundred volumes in calf , and I flatter myself they are well selected . 
Also pictures by Murillo , Rubens , Teniers , Titian , Vandyck , and others . 
I shall be happy to lend you any work you like to mention , Miss Garth . 
I am much obliged , said Mary , hastening away again , but I have little time for reading . 
His first wife was a poor match for him , though , said Mrs. Waule . 
She brought him nothing and this young woman is only her niece , and very proud . 
And my brother has always paid her wage . 
A sensible girl though , in my opinion , said Mr. Trumbull , finishing his ale and starting up with an emphatic adjustment of his waistcoat . 
I have observed her when she has been mixing medicine in drops . 
She minds what she is doing , sir . 
That is a great point in a woman , and a great point for our friend up stairs , poor dear old soul . 
I wish you good morning , Mrs. Waule . 
Good morning , Mr. Solomon . 
I trust we shall meet under less melancholy auspices . 
Anybody would think so , from the way Mr. Trumbull talks , said Jane . 
Then , after a pause , He talks as if my daughters wasn't to be trusted to give drops . 
Auctioneers talk wild , said Solomon . 
Not but what Trumbull has made money . 
Close up his eyes and draw the curtain close And let us all to meditation . 
That night after twelve o'clock Mary Garth relieved the watch in Mr. Featherstone's room , and sat there alone through the small hours . 
She often chose this task , in which she found some pleasure , notwithstanding the old man's testiness whenever he demanded her attentions . 
There were intervals in which she could sit perfectly still , enjoying the outer stillness and the subdued light . 
And she had already come to take life very much as a comedy in which she had a proud , nay , a generous resolution not to act the mean or treacherous part . 
Yet there were some illusions under Mary's eyes which were not quite comic to her . 
She could make a butt of Fred when he was present , but she did not enjoy his follies when he was absent . 
Yet she liked her thoughts a vigorous young mind not overbalanced by passion , finds a good in making acquaintance with life , and watches its own powers with interest . 
Mary had plenty of merriment within . 
She had always seen the most disagreeable side of Mr. Featherstone . 
he was not proud of her , and she was only useful to him . 
To be anxious about a soul that is always snapping at you must be left to the saints of the earth and Mary was not one of them . 
She had never returned him a harsh word , and had waited on him faithfully that was her utmost . 
Old Featherstone himself was not in the least anxious about his soul , and had declined to see Mr. Tucker on the subject . 
He nodded slightly and she went on . 
Mr. Jonah Featherstone and young Cranch are sleeping here . 
Mr. Solomon and Mrs. Waule are here every day , and the others come often . 
The old man listened with a grimace while she spoke , and then said , relaxing his face , The more fools they . 
It's three o'clock in the morning , and I've got all my faculties as well as ever I had in my life . 
I know all my property , and where the money's put out , and everything . 
And I've made everything ready to change my mind , and do as I like at the last . 
Do you hear , missy ? I've got my faculties . 
Well , sir ? said Mary , quietly . 
He now lowered his tone with an air of deeper cunning . 
I've made two wills , and I'm going to burn one . 
Now you do as I tell you . 
This is the key of my iron chest , in the closet there . 
You push well at the side of the brass plate at the top , till it goes like a bolt then you can put the key in the front lock and turn it . 
See and do that and take out the topmost paper Last Will and Testament big printed . 
No , sir , said Mary , in a firm voice , I cannot do that . 
Not do it ? I tell you , you must , said the old man , his voice beginning to shake under the shock of this resistance . 
I cannot touch your iron chest or your will . 
I must refuse to do anything that might lay me open to suspicion . 
I tell you , I'm in my right mind . 
Shan't I do as I like at the last ? I made two wills on purpose . 
Take the key , I say . 
No , sir , I will not , said Mary , more resolutely still . 
Her repulsion was getting stronger . 
I tell you , there's no time to lose . 
I cannot help that , sir . 
I will not let the close of your life soil the beginning of mine . 
I will not touch your iron chest or your will . 
She moved to a little distance from the bedside . 
Missy , he began to say , hurriedly , look here ! take the money the notes and gold look here take it you shall have it all do as I tell you . 
He made an effort to stretch out the key towards her as far as possible , and Mary again retreated . 
I will not touch your key or your money , sir . 
Pray don't ask me to do it again . 
If you do , I must go and call your brother . 
He let his hand fall , and for the first time in her life Mary saw old Peter Featherstone begin to cry childishly . 
Presently he rallied and said eagerly Look here , then . 
Mary's heart began to beat more quickly . 
Various ideas rushed through her mind as to what the burning of a second will might imply . 
She had to make a difficult decision in a hurry . 
I will call him , if you will let me call Mr. Jonah and others with him . 
Nobody else , I say . 
I shall do as I like . 
Wait till broad daylight , sir , when every one is stirring . 
Or let me call Simmons now , to go and fetch the lawyer ? He can be here in less than two hours . 
Lawyer ? What do I want with the lawyer ? Nobody shall know I say , nobody shall know . 
I shall do as I like . 
Let me call some one else , sir , said Mary , persuasively . 
Let me , pray , call some one else . 
You let me alone , I say . 
You'll never have the chance again . 
It's pretty nigh two hundred there's more in the box , and nobody knows how much there was . 
Take it and do as I tell you . 
She never forgot that vision of a man wanting to do as he liked at the last . 
But the way in which he had put the offer of the money urged her to speak with harder resolution than ever . 
It is of no use , sir . 
I will not do it . 
I will not touch your money . 
I will do anything else I can to comfort you but I will not touch your keys or your money . 
Anything else anything else ! said old Featherstone , with hoarse rage , which , as if in a nightmare , tried to be loud , and yet was only just audible . 
You come here you come here . 
Mary approached him cautiously , knowing him too well . 
She paused at a safe distance . 
Let me give you some cordial , she said , quietly , and try to compose yourself . 
You will perhaps go to sleep . 
And to morrow by daylight you can do as you like . 
He lifted the stick , in spite of her being beyond his reach , and threw it with a hard effort which was but impotence . 
It fell , slipping over the foot of the bed . 
Mary let it lie , and retreated to her chair by the fire . 
By and by she would go to him with the cordial . 
Fatigue would make him passive . 
Having put some wood on the fire and thrown a shawl over her , she sat down , hoping that Mr. Featherstone might now fall asleep . 
If she went near him the irritation might be kept up . 
He had said nothing after throwing the stick , but she had seen him taking his keys again and laying his right hand on the money . 
He did not put it up , however , and she thought that he was dropping off to sleep . 
Presently the dry wood sent out a flame which illuminated every crevice , and Mary saw that the old man was lying quietly with his head turned a little on one side . 
She went towards him with inaudible steps , and thought that his face looked strangely motionless but the next moment the movement of the flame communicating itself to all objects made her uncertain . 
The violent beating of her heart rendered her perceptions so doubtful that even when she touched him and listened for his breathing , she could not trust her conclusions . 
She went to the window and gently propped aside the curtain and blind , so that the still light of the sky fell on the bed . 
The next moment she ran to the bell and rang it energetically . 
Such men as this are feathers , chips , and straws . 
Carry no weight , no force . 
But levity Is causal too , and makes the sum of weight . 
For power finds its place in lack of power Advance is cession , and the driven ship May run aground because the helmsman's thought Lacked force to balance opposites . 
It was on a morning of May that Peter Featherstone was buried . 
Swiftly moving clouds only now and then allowed a gleam to light up any object , whether ugly or beautiful , that happened to stand within its golden shower . 
In the churchyard the objects were remarkably various , for there was a little country crowd waiting to see the funeral . 
The news had spread that it was to be a big burying the old gentleman had left written directions about everything and meant to have a funeral beyond his betters . 
In any case , he had been bent on having a handsome funeral , and on having persons bid to it who would rather have stayed at home . 
He had even desired that female relatives should follow him to the grave , and poor sister Martha had taken a difficult journey for this purpose from the Chalky Flats . 
In writing the programme for his burial he certainly did not make clear to himself that his pleasure in the little drama of which it formed a part was confined to anticipation . 
Thus old Featherstone was imaginative , after his fashion . 
However , the three mourning coaches were filled according to the written orders of the deceased . 
There were pall bearers on horseback , with the richest scarfs and hatbands , and even the under bearers had trappings of woe which were of a good well priced quality . 
The clergyman who met the procession was Mr. Cadwallader also according to the request of Peter Featherstone , prompted as usual by peculiar reasons . 
Having a contempt for curates , whom he always called understrappers , he was resolved to be buried by a beneficed clergyman . 
He had an objection to a parson stuck up above his head preaching to him . 
There would be a satisfaction in being buried by Mr. Cadwallader , whose very name offered a fine opportunity for pronouncing wrongly if you liked . 
This distinction conferred on the Rector of Tipton and Freshitt was the reason why Mrs. Cadwallader made one of the group that watched old Featherstone's funeral from an upper window of the manor . 
I will go anywhere with you , Mrs. Cadwallader , Celia had said but I don't like funerals . 
Oh , my dear , when you have a clergyman in your family you must accommodate your tastes I did that very early . 
When I married Humphrey I made up my mind to like sermons , and I set out by liking the end very much . 
That soon spread to the middle and the beginning , because I couldn't have the end without them . 
No , to be sure not , said the Dowager Lady Chettam , with stately emphasis . 
Peter's at Rome was inwoven with moods of despondency . 
The country gentry of old time lived in a rarefied social air dotted apart on their stations up the mountain they looked down with imperfect discrimination on the belts of thicker life below . 
And Dorothea was not at ease in the perspective and chilliness of that height . 
I dare say Dodo likes it she is fond of melancholy things and ugly people . 
I am fond of knowing something about the people I live among , said Dorothea , who had been watching everything with the interest of a monk on his holiday tour . 
It seems to me we know nothing of our neighbors , unless they are cottagers . 
One is constantly wondering what sort of lives other people lead , and how they take things . 
I am quite obliged to Mrs. Cadwallader for coming and calling me out of the library . 
Quite right to feel obliged to me , said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
Your rich Lowick farmers are as curious as any buffaloes or bisons , and I dare say you don't half see them at church . 
They are quite different from your uncle's tenants or Sir James's monsters farmers without landlords one can't tell how to class them . 
Most of these followers are not Lowick people , said Sir James I suppose they are legatees from a distance , or from Middlemarch . 
Lovegood tells me the old fellow has left a good deal of money as well as land . 
Think of that now ! when so many younger sons can't dine at their own expense , said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
Ah , turning round at the sound of the opening door , here is Mr. Brooke . 
I felt that we were incomplete before , and here is the explanation . 
You are come to see this odd funeral , of course ? No , I came to look after Casaubon to see how he goes on , you know . 
And to bring a little news a little news , my dear , said Mr. Brooke , nodding at Dorothea as she came towards him . 
I looked into the library , and I saw Casaubon over his books . 
I told him it wouldn't do I said , This will never do , you know think of your wife , Casaubon . 
And he promised me to come up . 
I didn't tell him my news I said , he must come up . 
Ah , now they are coming out of church , Mrs. Cadwallader exclaimed . 
Dear me , what a wonderfully mixed set ! Mr. Lydgate as doctor , I suppose . 
But that is really a good looking woman , and the fair young man must be her son . 
You have seen him at my house , you know . 
Ah , yes one of your secret committee , said Mrs. Cadwallader , provokingly . 
A coursing fellow , though , said Sir James , with a fox hunter's disgust . 
And one of those who suck the life out of the wretched handloom weavers in Tipton and Freshitt . 
That is how his family look so fair and sleek , said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
Those dark , purple faced people are an excellent foil . 
Dear me , they are like a set of jugs ! Do look at Humphrey one might fancy him an ugly archangel towering above them in his white surplice . 
It's a solemn thing , though , a funeral , said Mr. Brooke , if you take it in that light , you know . 
But I am not taking it in that light . 
I can't wear my solemnity too often , else it will go to rags . 
It was time the old man died , and none of these people are sorry . 
How piteous ! said Dorothea . 
This funeral seems to me the most dismal thing I ever saw . 
It is a blot on the morning I cannot bear to think that any one should die and leave no love behind . 
She was going to say more , but she saw her husband enter and seat himself a little in the background . 
The difference his presence made to her was not always a happy one she felt that he often inwardly objected to her speech . 
He must be of another blood , I think . 
Let me see ! said Celia , with awakened curiosity , standing behind Mrs. Cadwallader and leaning forward over her head . 
And we have brought the picture at the top of the carriage . 
I knew you would be pleased with the surprise , Casaubon . 
There you are to the very life as Aquinas , you know . 
Quite the right sort of thing . 
And you will hear young Ladislaw talk about it . 
Mr. Casaubon bowed with cold politeness , mastering his irritation , but only so far as to be silent . 
He now inferred that she had asked her uncle to invite Will to the Grange and she felt it impossible at that moment to enter into any explanation . 
His good nature often made him quick and clear seeing in personal matters , and he had divined from Dorothea's glance at her husband that there was some alarm in her mind . 
A very nice young fellow Casaubon has done everything for him , explained Mr. Brooke . 
He repays your expense in him , Casaubon , he went on , nodding encouragingly . 
I hope he will stay with me a long while and we shall make something of my documents . 
I invited him some time ago when you were ill , Casaubon Dorothea said you couldn't have anybody in the house , you know , and she asked me to write . 
Poor Dorothea felt that every word of her uncle's was about as pleasant as a grain of sand in the eye to Mr. Casaubon . 
It would be altogether unfitting now to explain that she had not wished her uncle to invite Will Ladislaw . 
Mr. Casaubon , indeed , had not thoroughly represented those mixed reasons to himself irritated feeling with him , as with all of us , seeking rather for justification than for self knowledge . 
The funeral was ended now , and the churchyard was being cleared . 
Now you can see him , Mrs. Cadwallader , said Celia . 
He is just like a miniature of Mr. Casaubon's aunt that hangs in Dorothea's boudoir quite nice looking . 
A very pretty sprig , said Mrs. Cadwallader , dryly . 
What is your nephew to be , Mr. Casaubon ? Pardon me , he is not my nephew . 
Well , you know , interposed Mr. Brooke , he is trying his wings . 
He is just the sort of young fellow to rise . 
I should be glad to give him an opportunity . 
He would make a good secretary , now , like Hobbes , Milton , Swift that sort of man . 
I understand , said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
One who can write speeches . 
I'll fetch him in now , eh , Casaubon ? said Mr. Brooke . 
He wouldn't come in till I had announced him , you know . 
And we'll go down and look at the picture . 
But you are at home in that , Casaubon . 
And your painter's flesh is good solidity , transparency , everything of that sort . 
I went into that a great deal at one time . 
However , I'll go and fetch Ladislaw . 
Pour voir au naturel leur tristesse profonde Je reviendrais , je crois , expres de l'autre monde . 
The long recognized blood relations and connections by marriage made already a goodly number , which , multiplied by possibilities , presented a fine range for jealous conjecture and pathetic hopefulness . 
Two cousins were present to hear the will , and a second cousin besides Mr. Trumbull . 
This second cousin was a Middlemarch mercer of polite manners and superfluous aspirates . 
The wit of a family is usually best received among strangers . 
Dear , dear ! said poor sister Martha , whose imagination of hundreds had been habitually narrowed to the amount of her unpaid rent . 
But in the morning all the ordinary currents of conjecture were disturbed by the presence of a strange mourner who had plashed among them as if from the moon . 
My good lady , whatever was told me was told in confidence , said the auctioneer , putting his hand up to screen that secret . 
Them who've made sure of their good luck may be disappointed yet , Mrs. Waule continued , finding some relief in this communication . 
Hopes are often delusive , said Mr. Trumbull , still in confidence . 
Ah ! said Mrs. Waule , looking across at the Vincys , and then moving back to the side of her sister Martha . 
It's wonderful how close poor Peter was , she said , in the same undertones . 
We none of us know what he might have had on his mind . 
I only hope and trust he wasn't a worse liver than we think of , Martha . 
I never WAS covetious , Jane , she replied but I have six children and have buried three , and I didn't marry into money . 
The eldest , that sits there , is but nineteen so I leave you to guess . 
And stock always short , and land most awkward . 
I shouldn't wonder if Featherstone had better feelings than any of us gave him credit for , he observed , in the ear of his wife . 
This funeral shows a thought about everybody it looks well when a man wants to be followed by his friends , and if they are humble , not to be ashamed of them . 
I should be all the better pleased if he'd left lots of small legacies . 
They may be uncommonly useful to fellows in a small way . 
Everything is as handsome as could be , crape and silk and everything , said Mrs. Vincy , contentedly . 
But I am sorry to say that Fred was under some difficulty in repressing a laugh , which would have been more unsuitable than his father's snuff box . 
But the entrance of the lawyer and the two brothers drew every one's attention . 
The lawyer was Mr. Standish , and he had come to Stone Court this morning believing that he knew thoroughly well who would be pleased and who disappointed before the day was over . 
The will he expected to read was the last of three which he had drawn up for Mr. Featherstone . 
No soul except herself knew what had passed on that final night . 
But I find that there is a subsequent instrument hitherto unknown to me , bearing date the th of July , , hardly a year later than the previous one . 
And there is farther , I see Mr. Standish was cautiously travelling over the document with his spectacles a codicil to this latter will , bearing date March , . 
Dear , dear ! said sister Martha , not meaning to be audible , but driven to some articulation under this pressure of dates . 
I shall begin by reading the earlier will , continued Mr. Standish , since such , as appears by his not having destroyed the document , was the intention of deceased . 
When all the rest were trying to look nowhere in particular , it was safe for her to look at them . 
And at the sound of the first give and bequeath she could see all complexions changing subtly , as if some faint vibration were passing through them , save that of Mr. Rigg . 
Fred blushed , and Mr. Vincy found it impossible to do without his snuff box in his hand , though he kept it closed . 
One likes to be done well by in every tense , past , present , and future . 
Altogether , reckoning hastily , here were about three thousand disposed of . 
There was a rustling which seemed like a shudder running round the room . 
Every one stared afresh at Mr. Rigg , who apparently experienced no surprise . 
A most singular testamentary disposition ! exclaimed Mr. Trumbull , preferring for once that he should be considered ignorant in the past . 
But there is a second will there is a further document . 
We have not yet heard the final wishes of the deceased . 
Mary Garth was feeling that what they had yet to hear were not the final wishes . 
, and the bequest of all the land lying in Lowick parish with all the stock and household furniture , to Joshua Rigg . 
Nobody present had a farthing but Mr. Trumbull had the gold headed cane . 
It took some time for the company to recover the power of expression . 
Mary dared not look at Fred . 
Mr. Vincy was the first to speak after using his snuff box energetically and he spoke with loud indignation . 
The most unaccountable will I ever heard ! I should say he was not in his right mind when he made it . 
I should say this last will was void , added Mr. Vincy , feeling that this expression put the thing in the true light . 
Eh Standish ? Our deceased friend always knew what he was about , I think , said Mr. Standish . 
Here is a letter from Clemmens of Brassing tied with the will . 
I never noticed any alienation of mind any aberration of intellect in the late Mr. Featherstone , said Borthrop Trumbull , but I call this will eccentric . 
I was always willingly of service to the old soul and he intimated pretty plainly a sense of obligation which would show itself in his will . 
The gold headed cane is farcical considered as an acknowledgment to me but happily I am above mercenary considerations . 
There's nothing very surprising in the matter that I can see , said Caleb Garth . 
Anybody might have had more reason for wondering if the will had been what you might expect from an open minded straightforward man . 
For my part , I wish there was no such thing as a will . 
That's a strange sentiment to come from a Christian man , by God ! said the lawyer . 
It always seemed to him that words were the hardest part of business . 
But here Mr. Jonah Featherstone made himself heard . 
Well , he always was a fine hypocrite , was my brother Peter . 
But this will cuts out everything . 
If I'd known , a wagon and six horses shouldn't have drawn me from Brassing . 
I'll put a white hat and drab coat on to morrow . 
It'll do him no good where he's gone , that's my belief , said Solomon , with a bitterness which was remarkably genuine , though his tone could not help being sly . 
Peter was a bad liver , and almshouses won't cover it , when he's had the impudence to show it at the last . 
But if the Almighty's allowed it , he means to punish him for it . 
Brother Solomon , I shall be going , if you'll drive me . 
I've no desire to put my foot on the premises again , said Solomon . 
I've got land of my own and property of my own to will away . 
It's a poor tale how luck goes in the world , said Jonah . 
It never answers to have a bit of spirit in you . 
You'd better be a dog in the manger . 
But those above ground might learn a lesson . 
One fool's will is enough in a family . 
There's more ways than one of being a fool , said Solomon . 
I shan't leave my money to be poured down the sink , and I shan't leave it to foundlings from Africay . 
I like Feather , stones that were brewed such , and not turned Featherstones with sticking the name on 'em . 
Solomon addressed these remarks in a loud aside to Mrs. Waule as he rose to accompany her . 
He had a high chirping voice and a vile accent . 
Fred , whom he no longer moved to laughter , thought him the lowest monster he had ever seen . 
But Fred was feeling rather sick . 
Also , the mercer , as a second cousin , was dispassionate enough to feel curiosity . 
Mary Garth had before this been getting ready to go home with her father . 
Mary too was agitated she was conscious that fatally , without will of her own , she had perhaps made a great difference to Fred's lot . 
Good by , she said , with affectionate sadness . 
I do believe you are better without the money . 
What was the good of it to Mr. Featherstone ? That's all very fine , said Fred , pettishly . 
What is a fellow to do ? I must go into the Church now . 
And I thought I should be able to pay your father at once and make everything right . 
And you have not even a hundred pounds left you . 
What shall you do now , Mary ? Take another situation , of course , as soon as I can get one . 
My father has enough to do to keep the rest , without me . 
In a very short time Stone Court was cleared of well brewed Featherstones and other long accustomed visitors . 
No soul was prophetic enough to have any foreboding as to what might appear on the trial of Joshua Rigg . 
And here I am naturally led to reflect on the means of elevating a low subject . 
Historical parallels are remarkably efficient in this way . 
may not be able to think of them with any degree of particularity , though he may have a philosophical confidence that if known they would be illustrative . 
'Tis strange to see the humors of these men , These great aspiring spirits , that should be wise . 
Mr. Vincy went home from the reading of the will with his point of view considerably changed in relation to many subjects . 
I've taken my resolution , so I advise you to lose no time in taking yours . 
Fred made no answer he was too utterly depressed . 
And all this was to have come without study or other inconvenience , purely by the favor of providence in the shape of an old gentleman's caprice . 
But now , at the end of the twenty four hours , all those firm expectations were upset . 
It was rather hard lines that while he was smarting under this disappointment he should be treated as if he could have helped it . 
But he went away silently and his mother pleaded for him . 
Don't be hard on the poor boy , Vincy . 
He'll turn out well yet , though that wicked man has deceived him . 
Took it away again ! said Mr. Vincy , pettishly . 
I tell you the lad's an unlucky lad , Lucy . 
And you've always spoiled him . 
Well , Vincy , he was my first , and you made a fine fuss with him when he came . 
You were as proud as proud , said Mrs. Vincy , easily recovering her cheerful smile . 
Who knows what babies will turn to ? I was fool enough , I dare say , said the husband more mildly , however . 
But who has handsomer , better children than ours ? Fred is far beyond other people's sons you may hear it in his speech , that he has kept college company . 
And Rosamond where is there a girl like her ? She might stand beside any lady in the land , and only look the better for it . 
You see Mr. Lydgate has kept the highest company and been everywhere , and he fell in love with her at once . 
Not but what I could have wished Rosamond had not engaged herself . 
She might have met somebody on a visit who would have been a far better match I mean at her schoolfellow Miss Willoughby's . 
There are relations in that family quite as high as Mr. Lydgate's . 
Damn relations ! said Mr. Vincy I've had enough of them . 
I don't want a son in law who has got nothing but his relations to recommend him . 
Why , my dear , said Mrs. Vincy , you seemed as pleased as could be about it . 
It's true , I wasn't at home but Rosamond told me you hadn't a word to say against the engagement . 
And she has begun to buy in the best linen and cambric for her underclothing . 
Not by my will , said Mr. Vincy . 
I shall have enough to do this year , with an idle scamp of a son , without paying for wedding clothes . 
The times are as tight as can be everybody is being ruined and I don't believe Lydgate has got a farthing . 
I shan't give my consent to their marrying . 
Let 'em wait , as their elders have done before 'em . 
Rosamond will take it hard , Vincy , and you know you never could bear to cross her . 
The sooner the engagement's off , the better . 
I don't believe he'll ever make an income , the way he goes on . 
He makes enemies that's all I hear of his making . 
But he stands very high with Mr. Bulstrode , my dear . 
The marriage would please HIM , I should think . 
Please the deuce ! said Mr. Vincy . 
Bulstrode won't pay for their keep . 
And if Lydgate thinks I'm going to give money for them to set up housekeeping , he's mistaken , that's all . 
I expect I shall have to put down my horses soon . 
You'd better tell Rosy what I say . 
However , Mrs. Vincy , who never willingly opposed her husband , lost no time the next morning in letting Rosamond know what he had said . 
What do you say , my dear ? said her mother , with affectionate deference . 
Papa does not mean anything of the kind , said Rosamond , quite calmly . 
He has always said that he wished me to marry the man I loved . 
And I shall marry Mr. Lydgate . 
It is seven weeks now since papa gave his consent . 
And I hope we shall have Mrs. Bretton's house . 
Well , my dear , I shall leave you to manage your papa . 
You always do manage everybody . 
But if we ever do go and get damask , Sadler's is the place far better than Hopkins's . 
Mrs. Bretton's is very large , though I should love you to have such a house but it will take a great deal of furniture carpeting and everything , besides plate and glass . 
And you hear , your papa says he will give no money . 
Do you think Mr. Lydgate expects it ? You cannot imagine that I should ask him , mamma . 
Of course he understands his own affairs . 
That has nothing to do with my marriage , mamma . 
Fred must leave off being idle . 
I am going up stairs to take this work to Miss Morgan she does the open hemming very well . 
Mary Garth might do some work for me now , I should think . 
Her sewing is exquisite it is the nicest thing I know about Mary . 
I should so like to have all my cambric frilling double hemmed . 
And it takes a long time . 
Mrs. Vincy's belief that Rosamond could manage her papa was well founded . 
The part Mr. Vincy preferred playing was that of the generous host whom nobody criticises . 
In the earlier half of the day there was business to hinder any formal communication of an adverse resolve in the later there was dinner , wine , whist , and general satisfaction . 
And in the mean while the hours were each leaving their little deposit and gradually forming the final reason for inaction , namely , that action was too late . 
The web itself is made of spontaneous beliefs and indefinable joys , yearnings of one life towards another , visions of completeness , indefinite trust . 
, and other incidents of scientific inquiry , are observed to be less incompatible with poetic love than a native dulness or a lively addiction to the lowest prose . 
As for Rosamond , she was in the water lily's expanding wonderment at its own fuller life , and she too was spinning industriously at the mutual web . 
The certainty that Miss Vincy and Mr. Lydgate were engaged became general in Middlemarch without the aid of formal announcement . 
Aunt Bulstrode was again stirred to anxiety but this time she addressed herself to her brother , going to the warehouse expressly to avoid Mrs. Vincy's volatility . 
His replies were not satisfactory . 
I never made any fuss about the young fellow . 
You should go and talk to your husband about it , not me . 
Well , really , Walter , how can Mr. Bulstrode be to blame ? I am sure he did not wish for the engagement . 
Oh , if Bulstrode had not taken him by the hand , I should never have invited him . 
But you called him in to attend on Fred , and I am sure that was a mercy , said Mrs. Bulstrode , losing her clew in the intricacies of the subject . 
I don't know about mercy , said Mr. Vincy , testily . 
I know I am worried more than I like with my family . 
Mr. Vincy was very little like a Jesuit , but no accomplished Jesuit could have turned a question more adroitly . 
Mrs. Bulstrode did not repeat her brother's complaints to her husband , but in the evening she spoke to him of Lydgate and Rosamond . 
He did not share her warm interest , however and only spoke with resignation of the risks attendant on the beginning of medical practice and the desirability of prudence . 
I am sure we are bound to pray for that thoughtless girl brought up as she has been , said Mrs. Bulstrode , wishing to rouse her husband's feelings . 
Truly , my dear , said Mr. Bulstrode , assentingly . 
Those who are not of this world can do little else to arrest the errors of the obstinately worldly . 
That is what we must accustom ourselves to recognize with regard to your brother's family . 
Mrs. Bulstrode said no more , attributing some dissatisfaction which she felt to her own want of spirituality . 
She believed that her husband was one of those men whose memoirs should be written when they died . 
As to Lydgate himself , having been accepted , he was prepared to accept all the consequences which he believed himself to foresee with perfect clearness . 
Of course he must be married in a year perhaps even in half a year . 
This was not what he had intended but other schemes would not be hindered they would simply adjust themselves anew . 
Marriage , of course , must be prepared for in the usual way . 
, took notice when it fell vacant after the old lady's death , and immediately entered into treaty for it . 
He did this in an episodic way , very much as he gave orders to his tailor for every requisite of perfect dress , without any notion of being extravagant . 
On the contrary , he would have despised any ostentation of expense his profession had familiarized him with all grades of poverty , and he cared much for those who suffered hardships . 
In warming himself at French social theories he had brought away no smell of scorching . 
We may handle even extreme opinions with impunity while our furniture , our dinner giving , and preference for armorial bearings in our own ease , link us indissolubly with the established order . 
Any inward debate Lydgate had as to the consequences of this engagement which had stolen upon him , turned on the paucity of time rather than of money . 
Yes , at some stages , said Lydgate , lifting his brows and smiling , while he began to arrange his microscope . 
But a better order will begin after . 
Soon ? said the Vicar . 
I hope so , really . 
This unsettled state of affairs uses up the time , and when one has notions in science , every moment is an opportunity . 
I feel sure that marriage must be the best thing for a man who wants to work steadily . 
He has everything at home then no teasing with personal speculations he can get calmness and freedom . 
You are an enviable dog , said the Vicar , to have such a prospect Rosamond , calmness and freedom , all to your share . 
Here am I with nothing but my pipe and pond animalcules . 
Now , are you ready ? Lydgate did not mention to the Vicar another reason he had for wishing to shorten the period of courtship . 
But that exquisite creature herself suffered in the same sort of way it was at least one delightful thought that in marrying her , he could give her a much needed transplantation . 
Her father and mother were gone to a party , and the rest were all out with the butterflies . 
Dear ! your eyelids are red . 
Are they ? said Rosamond . 
It was not in her nature to pour forth wishes or grievances . 
They only came forth gracefully on solicitation . 
As if you could hide it from me ! ? said Lydgate , laying his hand tenderly on both of hers . 
Don't I see a tiny drop on one of the lashes ? Things trouble you , and you don't tell me . 
Why should I tell you what you cannot alter ? They are every day things perhaps they have been a little worse lately . 
Papa has been more irritable lately . 
Fred makes him angry , and this morning there was a fresh quarrel because Fred threatens to throw his whole education away , and do something quite beneath him . 
And besides Rosamond hesitated , and her cheeks were gathering a slight flush . 
Lydgate had never seen her in trouble since the morning of their engagement , and he had never felt so passionately towards her as at this moment . 
He kissed the hesitating lips gently , as if to encourage them . 
Will you give it up ? said Lydgate , with quick energy almost angrily . 
I never give up anything that I choose to do , said Rosamond , recovering her calmness at the touching of this chord . 
God bless you ! said Lydgate , kissing her again . 
This constancy of purpose in the right place was adorable . 
He went on It is too late now for your father to say that our engagement must be given up . 
You are of age , and I claim you as mine . 
If anything is done to make you unhappy , that is a reason for hastening our marriage . 
An unmistakable delight shone forth from the blue eyes that met his , and the radiance seemed to light up all his future with mild sunshine . 
seemed to be an affair of a few weeks' waiting , more or less . 
Why should we defer it ? he said , with ardent insistence . 
I have taken the house now everything else can soon be got ready can it not ? You will not mind about new clothes . 
Those can be bought afterwards . 
What original notions you clever men have ! said Rosamond , dimpling with more thorough laughter than usual at this humorous incongruity . 
This is the first time I ever heard of wedding clothes being bought after marriage . 
Remember , we are looking forward to a better sort of happiness even than this being continually together , independent of others , and ordering our lives as we will . 
Come , dear , tell me how soon you can be altogether mine . 
There was a serious pleading in Lydgate's tone , as if he felt that she would be injuring him by any fantastic delays . 
Six weeks would be ample say so , Rosamond , insisted Lydgate , releasing her hands to put his arm gently round her . 
Still , mamma could see to those while we were away . 
Yes , to be sure . 
We must be away a week or so . 
Oh , more than that ! said Rosamond , earnestly . 
She looked at her lover with some wondering remonstrance as she spoke , and he readily understood that she might wish to lengthen the sweet time of double solitude . 
Whatever you wish , my darling , when the day is fixed . 
But let us take a decided course , and put an end to any discomfort you may be suffering . 
Six weeks ! I am sure they would be ample . 
I could certainly hasten the work , said Rosamond . 
Will you , then , mention it to papa ? I think it would be better to write to him . 
It was plainer now than ever that his notion of remaining much longer a bachelor had been a mistake marriage would not be an obstruction but a furtherance . 
And happening the next day to accompany a patient to Brassing , he saw a dinner service there which struck him as so exactly the right thing that he bought it at once . 
It saved time to do these things just when you thought of them , and Lydgate hated ugly crockery . 
The dinner service in question was expensive , but that might be in the nature of dinner services . 
Furnishing was necessarily expensive but then it had to be done only once . 
It must be lovely , said Mrs. Vincy , when Lydgate mentioned his purchase with some descriptive touches . 
Just what Rosy ought to have . 
I trust in heaven it won't be broken ! One must hire servants who will not break things , said Lydgate . 
But Rosamond had good reasons for suggesting to Lydgate that papa should be appealed to in writing . 
Nonsense , my dear ! said Mr. Vincy . 
What has he got to marry on ? You'd much better give up the engagement . 
I've told you so pretty plainly before this . 
What have you had such an education for , if you are to go and marry a poor man ? It's a cruel thing for a father to see . 
Mr. Lydgate is not poor , papa . 
He bought Mr. Peacock's practice , which , they say , is worth eight or nine hundred a year . 
Stuff and nonsense ! What's buying a practice ? He might as well buy next year's swallows . 
It'll all slip through his fingers . 
On the contrary , papa , he will increase the practice . 
See how he has been called in by the Chettams and Casaubons . 
I am sure he expects nothing , papa . 
And he has such very high connections he is sure to rise in one way or another . 
He is engaged in making scientific discoveries . 
I cannot give up my only prospect of happiness , papa Mr. Lydgate is a gentleman . 
I could never love any one who was not a perfect gentleman . 
You would not like me to go into a consumption , as Arabella Hawley did . 
And you know that I never change my mind . 
Promise me , papa , that you will consent to what we wish . 
We shall never give each other up and you know that you have always objected to long courtships and late marriages . 
Mr. Vincy's answer consisted chiefly in a demand that Lydgate should insure his life a demand immediately conceded . 
This was a delightfully reassuring idea supposing that Lydgate died , but in the mean time not a self supporting idea . 
However , it seemed to make everything comfortable about Rosamond's marriage and the necessary purchases went on with much spirit . 
Not without prudential considerations , however . 
must have a few first rate pocket handkerchiefs but beyond the absolutely necessary half dozen , Rosamond contented herself without the very highest style of embroidery and Valenciennes . 
He was not going to do anything extravagant , but the requisite things must be bought , and it would be bad economy to buy them of a poor quality . 
All these matters were by the bye . 
But Wrench had a wretched lymphatic wife who made a mummy of herself indoors in a large shawl and he must have altogether begun with an ill chosen domestic apparatus . 
Rosamond , however , was on her side much occupied with conjectures , though her quick imitative perception warned her against betraying them too crudely . 
I shall like so much to know your family , she said one day , when the wedding journey was being discussed . 
We might perhaps take a direction that would allow us to see them as we returned . 
Which of your uncles do you like best ? Oh , my uncle Godwin , I think . 
He is a good natured old fellow . 
Does he know you are going to be married ? No , said Lydgate , carelessly , turning in his chair and rubbing his hair up . 
Do send him word of it , you naughty undutiful nephew . 
He will perhaps ask you to take me to Quallingham and then you could show me about the grounds , and I could imagine you there when you were a boy . 
Remember , you see me in my home , just as it has been since I was a child . 
It is not fair that I should be so ignorant of yours . 
But perhaps you would be a little ashamed of me . 
Lydgate smiled at her tenderly , and really accepted the suggestion that the proud pleasure of showing so charming a bride was worth some trouble . 
And now he came to think of it , he would like to see the old spots with Rosamond . 
I will write to him , then . 
But my cousins are bores . 
But mamma was near spoiling all , a day or two later , by saying I hope your uncle Sir Godwin will not look down on Rosy , Mr. Lydgate . 
I should think he would do something handsome . 
A thousand or two can be nothing to a baronet . 
Mamma had a little filial lecture afterwards , and was docile as usual . 
Such self assurance need not fear the spight Of grudging foes ne favour seek of friends But in the stay of her own stedfast might Neither to one herself nor other bends . 
Most happy she that most assured doth rest , But he most happy who such one loves best . 
had become feeble in its blowing . 
That means mischief , eh ? said Mr. Hawley . 
He's got the freak of being a popular man now , after dangling about like a stray tortoise . 
So much the worse for him . 
I've had my eye on him for some time . 
He shall be prettily pumped upon . 
He's a damned bad landlord . 
It would be worth our paying for . 
I understand he has got a very brilliant young fellow to edit it , who can write the highest style of leading article , quite equal to anything in the London papers . 
And he means to take very high ground on Reform . 
Let Brooke reform his rent roll . 
He's a cursed old screw , and the buildings all over his estate are going to rack . 
I sup pose this young fellow is some loose fish from London . 
He is said to be of foreign extraction . 
I know the sort , said Mr. Hawley some emissary . 
He'll begin with flourishing about the Rights of Man and end with murdering a wench . 
You must concede that there are abuses , Hawley , said Mr. Hackbutt , foreseeing some political disagreement with his family lawyer . 
I know a little too much about Middlemarch elections . 
Let 'em quash every pocket borough to morrow , and bring in every mushroom town in the kingdom they'll only increase the expense of getting into Parliament . 
The result had oozed forth gradually , like the discovery that your neighbor has set up an unpleasant kind of manufacture which will be permanently under your nostrils without legal remedy . 
The development was much furthered by a delight in his guest which proved greater even than he had anticipated . 
He seems to me a kind of Shelley , you know , Mr. Brooke took an opportunity of saying , for the gratification of Mr. Casaubon . 
But he has the same sort of enthusiasm for liberty , freedom , emancipation a fine thing under guidance under guidance , you know . 
I think I shall be able to put him on the right tack and I am the more pleased because he is a relation of yours , Casaubon . 
If the right tack implied anything more precise than the rest of Mr. Brooke's speech , Mr. Casaubon silently hoped that it referred to some occupation at a great distance from Lowick . 
He had disliked Will while he helped him , but he had begun to dislike him still more now that Will had declined his help . 
is likely to have a secret contempt for us , and any one who admires him passes an oblique criticism on ourselves . 
in a sudden , capricious manner . 
Will Ladislaw on his side felt that his dislike was flourishing at the expense of his gratitude , and spent much inward discourse in justifying the dislike . 
And Casaubon had done a wrong to Dorothea in marrying her . 
It is the most horrible of virgin sacrifices , said Will and he painted to himself what were Dorothea's inward sorrows as if he had been writing a choric wail . 
The simple truth was that nothing then invited him so strongly as the presence of Dorothea . 
Invitations of the formal kind had been wanting , however , for Will had never been asked to go to Lowick . 
But Will Ladislaw always seemed to see more in what she said than she herself saw . 
Dorothea had little vanity , but she had the ardent woman's need to rule beneficently by making the joy of another soul . 
On this subject Mr. Casaubon had remained dumb . 
But Will wanted to talk with Dorothea alone , and was impatient of slow circumstance . 
Necessity excused stratagem , but stratagem was limited by the dread of offending Dorothea . 
But the stratagem was defeated by the weather . 
Clouds gathered with treacherous quickness , the rain came down , and Will was obliged to take shelter in the house . 
Master is out , sir there's only Mrs. Casaubon in the library . 
Oh , very well this confounded rain has hindered me from sketching , said Will , feeling so happy that he affected indifference with delightful ease . 
In another minute he was in the library , and Dorothea was meeting him with her sweet unconstrained smile . 
Mr. Casaubon has gone to the Archdeacon's , she said , at once . 
I don't know whether he will be at home again long before dinner . 
He was uncertain how long he should be . 
Did you want to say anything particular to him ? No I came to sketch , but the rain drove me in . 
Else I would not have disturbed you yet . 
I supposed that Mr. Casaubon was here , and I know he dislikes interruption at this hour . 
I am indebted to the rain , then . 
I am so glad to see you . 
Dorothea uttered these common words with the simple sincerity of an unhappy child , visited at school . 
I really came for the chance of seeing you alone , said Will , mysteriously forced to be just as simple as she was . 
He could not stay to ask himself , why not ? I wanted to talk about things , as we did in Rome . 
It always makes a difference when other people are present . 
Yes , said Dorothea , in her clear full tone of assent . 
Each looked at the other as if they had been two flowers which had opened then and there . 
I have often thought that I should like to talk to you again , she said , immediately . 
It seems strange to me how many things I said to you . 
I remember them all , said Will , with the unspeakable content in his soul of feeling that he was in the presence of a creature worthy to be perfectly loved . 
I think his own feelings at that moment were perfect , for we mortals have our divine moments , when love is satisfied in the completeness the beloved object . 
I have tried to learn a great deal since we were in Rome , said Dorothea . 
I can read Latin a little , and I am beginning to understand just a little Greek . 
I can help Mr. Casaubon better now . 
I can find out references for him and save his eyes in many ways . 
But it is very difficult to be learned it seems as if people were worn out on the way to great thoughts , and can never enjoy them because they are too tired . 
If a man has a capacity for great thoughts , he is likely to overtake them before he is decrepit , said Will , with irrepressible quickness . 
You correct me , said Dorothea . 
I should have said that those who have great thoughts get too much worn in working them out . 
Dorothea was led on to this bit of autobiography without any sense of making a revelation . 
But she had never before said anything to Will which threw so strong a light on her marriage . 
He did not shrug his shoulders and for want of that muscular outlet he thought the more irritably of beautiful lips kissing holy skulls and other emptinesses ecclesiastically enshrined . 
Also he had to take care that his speech should not betray that thought . 
But you may easily carry the help too far , he said , and get over wrought yourself . 
Are you not too much shut up ? You already look paler . 
It would be better for Mr. Casaubon to have a secretary he could easily get a man who would do half his work for him . 
It would save him more effectually , and you need only help him in lighter ways . 
How can you think of that ? said Dorothea , in a tone of earnest remonstrance . 
I should have no happiness if I did not help him in his work . 
What could I do ? There is no good to be done in Lowick . 
The only thing I desire is to help him more . 
And he objects to a secretary please not to mention that again . 
Certainly not , now I know your feeling . 
But I have heard both Mr. Brooke and Sir James Chettam express the same wish . 
I thought you could understand that one's mind has other wants , she added , rather impatiently besides , Mr. Casaubon cannot bear to hear of a secretary . 
My mistake is excusable , said Will . 
In old days I used to hear Mr. Casaubon speak as if he looked forward to having a secretary . 
Indeed he held out the prospect of that office to me . 
But I turned out to be not good enough for it . 
Dorothea was trying to extract out of this an excuse for her husband's evident repulsion , as she said , with a playful smile , You were not a steady worker enough . 
No , said Will , shaking his head backward somewhat after the manner of a spirited horse . 
and know thoroughly what he is doing . 
He is too doubtful too uncertain of himself . 
I may not be good for much , but he dislikes me because I disagree with him . 
Will was not without his intentions to be always generous , but our tongues are little triggers which have usually been pulled before general intentions can be brought to bear . 
And it was too intolerable that Casaubon's dislike of him should not be fairly accounted for to Dorothea . 
Yet when he had spoken he was rather uneasy as to the effect on her . 
But Dorothea was strangely quiet not immediately indignant , as she had been on a like occasion in Rome . 
And the cause lay deep . 
Yes he has shown a sense of justice in family matters . 
I wish I knew all about her ! said Dorothea . 
They both died rather early . 
And I never knew much of my father , beyond what my mother told me but he inherited the musical talents . 
Ah , what a different life from mine ! said Dorothea , with keen interest , clasping her hands on her lap . 
I have always had too much of everything . 
But tell me how it was Mr. Casaubon could not have known about you then . 
No but my father had made himself known to Mr. Casaubon , and that was my last hungry day . 
My father died soon after , and my mother and I were well taken care of . 
Mr. Casaubon always expressly recognized it as his duty to take care of us because of the harsh injustice which had been shown to his mother's sister . 
But now I am telling you what is not new to you . 
Will was much too good a fellow to be easy under the sense of being ungrateful . 
And when gratitude has become a matter of reasoning there are many ways of escaping from its bonds . 
No , answered Dorothea Mr. Casaubon has always avoided dwelling on his own honorable actions . 
She did not feel that her husband's conduct was depreciated but this notion of what justice had required in his relations with Will Ladislaw took strong hold on her mind . 
After a moment's pause , she added , He had never told me that he supported your mother . 
Is she still living ? No she died by an accident a fall four years ago . 
It is curious that my mother , too , ran away from her family , but not for the sake of her husband . 
She never would tell me anything about her family , except that she forsook them to get her own living went on the stage , in fact . 
She was a dark eyed creature , with crisp ringlets , and never seemed to be getting old . 
You must remember that you have not done what he thought best for you . 
Perhaps , she continued , getting into a pleading tone , my uncle has not told you how serious Mr. Casaubon's illness was . 
It would be very petty of us who are well and can bear things , to think much of small offences from those who carry a weight of trial . 
You teach me better , said Will . 
I will never grumble on that subject again . 
Will was ready to adore her pity and loyalty , if she would associate himself with her in manifesting them . 
I have really sometimes been a perverse fellow , he went on , but I will never again , if I can help it , do or say what you would disapprove . 
That is very good of you , said Dorothea , with another open smile . 
I shall have a little kingdom then , where I shall give laws . 
But you will soon go away , out of my rule , I imagine . 
You will soon be tired of staying at the Grange . 
That is a point I wanted to mention to you one of the reasons why I wished to speak to you alone . 
Mr. Brooke proposes that I should stay in this neighborhood . 
He has bought one of the Middlemarch newspapers , and he wishes me to conduct that , and also to help him in other ways . 
Would not that be a sacrifice of higher prospects for you ? said Dorothea . 
Perhaps but I have always been blamed for thinking of prospects , and not settling to anything . 
And here is something offered to me . 
If you would not like me to accept it , I will give it up . 
Otherwise I would rather stay in this part of the country than go away . 
I belong to nobody anywhere else . 
I should like you to stay very much , said Dorothea , at once , as simply and readily as she had spoken at Rome . 
There was not the shadow of a reason in her mind at the moment why she should not say so . 
Then I WILL stay , said Ladislaw , shaking his head backward , rising and going towards the window , as if to see whether the rain had ceased . 
If is face was not turned towards her , and this made it easier to say But my opinion is of little consequence on such a subject . 
I think you should be guided by Mr. Casaubon . 
I spoke without thinking of anything else than my own feeling , which has nothing to do with the real question . 
But it now occurs to me perhaps Mr. Casaubon might see that the proposal was not wise . 
Can you not wait now and mention it to him ? I can't wait to day , said Will , inwardly seared by the possibility that Mr. Casaubon would enter . 
The rain is quite over now . 
I told Mr. Brooke not to call for me I would rather walk the five miles . 
I shall strike across Halsell Common , and see the gleams on the wet grass . 
He approached her to shake hands quite hurriedly , longing but not daring to say , Don't mention the subject to Mr. Casaubon . 
No , he dared not , could not say it . 
To ask her to be less simple and direct would be like breathing on the crystal that you want to see the light through . 
And there was always the other great dread of himself becoming dimmed and forever ray shorn in her eyes . 
I wish you could have stayed , said Dorothea , with a touch of mournfulness , as she rose and put out her hand . 
On such occasions he usually threw into an easy chair in the library , and allowed Dorothea to read the London papers to him , closing his eyes the while . 
Spanning , to day , and of being praised by one who is himself a worthy recipient of praise . 
He spoke very handsomely of my late tractate on the Egyptian Mysteries , using , in fact , terms which it would not become me to repeat . 
I am very glad you have had that pleasure , said Dorothea , delighted to see her husband less weary than usual at this hour . 
Before you came I had been regretting that you happened to be out to day . 
Why so , my dear ? said Mr. Casaubon , throwing himself backward again . 
Because Mr. Ladislaw has been here and he has mentioned a proposal of my uncle's which I should like to know your opinion of . 
Her husband she felt was really concerned in this question . 
He did not speak , but merely bowed . 
Dear uncle , you know , has many projects . 
Dorothea looked at her husband while she spoke , but he had at first blinked and finally closed his eyes , as if to save them while his lips became more tense . 
What is your opinion ? she added , rather timidly , after a slight pause . 
Did Mr. Ladislaw come on purpose to ask my opinion ? said Mr. Casaubon , opening his eyes narrowly with a knife edged look at Dorothea . 
She was really uncomfortable on the point he inquired about , but she only became a little more serious , and her eyes did not swerve . 
No , she answered immediately , he did not say that he came to ask your opinion . 
But when he mentioned the proposal , he of course expected me to tell you of it . 
I feared that you might feel some objection . 
But certainly a young man with so much talent might be very useful to my uncle might help him to do good in a better way . 
And Mr. Ladislaw wishes to have some fixed occupation . 
He has been blamed , he says , for not seeking something of that kind , and he would like to stay in this neighborhood because no one cares for him elsewhere . 
Dorothea felt that this was a consideration to soften her husband . 
However , he did not speak , and she presently recurred to Dr . 
Spanning and the Archdeacon's breakfast . 
But there was no longer sunshine on these subjects . 
I will not here make reflections on any person's judgment . 
At any rate , the contrary issue must exclude you from further reception at my house . 
Yours faithfully , EDWARD CASAUBON . 
Any private hours in her day were usually spent in her blue green boudoir , and she had come to be very fond of its pallid quaintness . 
She had been so used to struggle for and to find resolve in looking along the avenue towards the arch of western light that the vision itself had gained a communicating power . 
Even the pale stag seemed to have reminding glances and to mean mutely , Yes , we know . 
And the group of delicately touched miniatures had made an audience as of beings no longer disturbed about their own earthly lot , but still humanly interested . 
Especially the mysterious Aunt Julia about whom Dorothea had never found it easy to question her husband . 
It was true , she said to herself , that Mr. Casaubon had a debt to the Ladislaws that he had to pay back what the Ladislaws had been wronged of . 
That ought to be altered and no time ought to be lost . 
This very question which had just arisen about Will Ladislaw's occupation , was the occasion for placing things on a new , right footing . 
His sense of right had surmounted and would continue to surmount anything that might be called antipathy . 
Will Ladislaw had refused Mr. Casaubon's future aid on a ground that no longer appeared right to her and Mr. Casaubon had never himself seen fully what was the claim upon him . 
But he will ! said Dorothea . 
The great strength of his character lies here . 
And what are we doing with our money ? We make no use of half of our income . 
My own money buys me nothing but an uneasy conscience . 
There was a peculiar fascination for Dorothea in this division of property intended for herself , and always regarded by her as excessive . 
The thoughts which had gathered vividness in the solitude of her boudoir occupied her incessantly through the day on which Mr. Casaubon had sent his letter to Will . 
Everything seemed hindrance to her till she could find an opportunity of opening her heart to her husband . 
To his preoccupied mind all subjects were to be approached gently , and she had never since his illness lost from her consciousness the dread of agitating him . 
Bat when young ardor is set brooding over the conception of a prompt deed , the deed itself seems to start forth with independent life , mastering ideal obstacles . 
And this night she was from the beginning sleepless , excited by resolves . 
No , not at all but I shall be obliged , since you are up , if you will read me a few pages of Lowth . 
May I talk to you a little instead ? said Dorothea . 
I have been thinking about money all day that I have always had too much , and especially the prospect of too much . 
These , my dear Dorothea , are providential arrangements . 
But if one has too much in consequence of others being wronged , it seems to me that the divine voice which tells us to set that wrong right must be obeyed . 
How so ? I have none but comparatively distant connections . 
It was on that ground , I know , that you educated Mr. Ladislaw and provided for his mother . 
Dorothea waited a few moments for some answer that would help her onward . 
None came , and her next words seemed the more forcible to her , falling clear upon the dark silence . 
But surely we should regard his claim as a much greater one , even to the half of that property which I know that you have destined for me . 
And I think he ought at once to be provided for on that understanding . 
It is not right that he should be in the dependence of poverty while we are rich . 
And if there is any objection to the proposal he mentioned , the giving him his true place and his true share would set aside any motive for his accepting it . 
Mr. Ladislaw has probably been speaking to you on this subject ? said Mr. Casaubon , with a certain biting quickness not habitual to him . 
Indeed , no ! said Dorothea , earnestly . 
How can you imagine it , since he has so lately declined everything from you ? I fear you think too hardly of him , dear . 
He only told me a little about his parents and grandparents , and almost all in answer to my questions . 
You are so good , so just you have done everything you thought to be right . 
There was a perceptible pause before Mr. Casaubon replied , not quickly as before , but with a still more biting emphasis . 
Into the question how far conduct , especially in the matter of alliances , constitutes a forfeiture of family claims , I do not now enter . 
Suffice it , that you are not here qualified to discriminate . 
What I now wish you to understand is , that I accept no revision , still less dictation within that range of affairs which I have deliberated upon as distinctly and properly mine . 
It is not for you to interfere between me and Mr. Ladislaw , and still less to encourage communications from him to you which constitute a criticism on my procedure . 
Poor Dorothea , shrouded in the darkness , was in a tumult of conflicting emotions . 
But nothing else happened , except that they both remained a long while sleepless , without speaking again . 
The next day , Mr. Casaubon received the following answer from Will Ladislaw DEAR MR . 
CASAUBON , I have given all due consideration to your letter of yesterday , but I am unable to take precisely your view of our mutual position . 
Granted that a benefactor's wishes may constitute a claim there must always be a reservation as to the quality of those wishes . 
They may possibly clash with more imperative considerations . 
Or a benefactor's veto might impose such a negation on a man's life that the consequent blank might be more cruel than the benefaction was generous . 
I am merely using strong illustrations . 
that no man had juster cause for disgust and suspicion than he . 
Young Ladislaw , he was sure , meant to defy and annoy him , meant to win Dorothea's confidence and sow her mind with disrespect , and perhaps aversion , towards her husband . 
the positive knowledge that her tendency to form opinions about her husband's conduct was accompanied with a disposition to regard Will Ladislaw favorably and be influenced by what he said . 
His own proud reticence had prevented him from ever being undeceived in the supposition that Dorothea had originally asked her uncle to invite Will to his house . 
And now , on receiving Will's letter , Mr. Casaubon had to consider his duty . 
He would never have been easy to call his action anything else than duty but in this case , contending motives thrust him back into negations . 
Depend upon it , I have put my finger on the right thing . 
Poor Mr. Casaubon was distrustful of everybody's feeling towards him , especially as a husband . 
view of his disadvantages to let them know that he did not find marriage particularly blissful would imply his conversion to their earlier disapproval . 
It would be as bad as letting Carp , and Brasenose generally , know how backward he was in organizing the matter for his Key to all Mythologies . 
All through his life Mr. Casaubon had been trying not to admit even to himself the inward sores of self doubt and jealousy . 
And on the most delicate of all personal subjects , the habit of proud suspicious reticence told doubly . 
Thus Mr. Casaubon remained proudly , bitterly silent . 
But he had forbidden Will to come to Lowick Manor , and he was mentally preparing other measures of frustration . 
C'est beaucoup que le jugement des hommes sur les actions humaines tot ou tard il devient efficace . 
Sir James Chettam could not look with any satisfaction on Mr. Brooke's new courses but it was easier to object than to hinder . 
Sir James accounted for his having come in alone one day to lunch with the Cadwalladers by saying I can't talk to you as I want , before Celia it might hurt her . 
Indeed , it would not be right . 
I know what you mean the Pioneer' at the Grange ! darted in Mrs. Cadwallader , almost before the last word was off her friend's tongue . 
It is frightful this taking to buying whistles and blowing them in everybody's hearing . 
Lying in bed all day and playing at dominoes , like poor Lord Plessy , would be more private and bearable . 
There are tremendous sarcasms against a landlord not a hundred miles from Middlemarch , who receives his own rents , and makes no returns . 
I do wish Brooke would leave that off , said Sir James , with his little frown of annoyance . 
Is he really going to be put in nomination , though ? said Mr. Cadwallader . 
I saw Farebrother yesterday he's Whiggish himself , hoists Brougham and Useful Knowledge that's the worst I know of him and he says that Brooke is getting up a pretty strong party . 
Bulstrode , the banker , is his foremost man . 
But he thinks Brooke would come off badly at a nomination . 
Exactly , said Sir James , with earnestness . 
I have been inquiring into the thing , for I've never known anything about Middlemarch politics before the county being my business . 
What Brooke trusts to , is that they are going to turn out Oliver because he is a Peelite . 
Hawley's rather rough he forgot that he was speaking to me . 
He said if Brooke wanted a pelting , he could get it cheaper than by going to the hustings . 
I warned you all of it , said Mrs. Cadwallader , waving her hands outward . 
I said to Humphrey long ago , Mr. Brooke is going to make a splash in the mud . 
And now he has done it . 
Well , he might have taken it into his head to marry , said the Rector . 
That would have been a graver mess than a little flirtation with politics . 
He may do that afterwards , said Mrs. Cadwallader when he has come out on the other side of the mud with an ague . 
What I care for most is his own dignity , said Sir James . 
Of course I care the more because of the family . 
But he's getting on in life now , and I don't like to think of his exposing himself . 
They will be raking up everything against him . 
I suppose it's no use trying any persuasion , said the Rector . 
There's such an odd mixture of obstinacy and changeableness in Brooke . 
Have you tried him on the subject ? Well , no , said Sir James I feel a delicacy in appearing to dictate . 
But I have been talking to this young Ladislaw that Brooke is making a factotum of . 
Ladislaw seems clever enough for anything . 
I thought it as well to hear what he had to say and he is against Brooke's standing this time . 
I think he'll turn him round I think the nomination may be staved off . 
I know , said Mrs. Cadwallader , nodding . 
The independent member hasn't got his speeches well enough by heart . 
But this Ladislaw there again is a vexatious business , said Sir James . 
as Brooke's guest and a relation of Casaubon's , thinking he was only on a flying visit . 
And now I find he's in everybody's mouth in Middlemarch as the editor of the Pioneer . 
There are stories going about him as a quill driving alien , a foreign emissary , and what not . 
Casaubon won't like that , said the Rector . 
There IS some foreign blood in Ladislaw , returned Sir James . 
I hope he won't go into extreme opinions and carry Brooke on . 
Oh , he's a dangerous young sprig , that Mr. Ladislaw , said Mrs. Cadwallader , with his opera songs and his ready tongue . 
A sort of Byronic hero an amorous conspirator , it strikes me . 
And Thomas Aquinas is not fond of him . 
I could see that , the day the picture was brought . 
I don't like to begin on the subject with Casaubon , said Sir James . 
He has more right to interfere than I. But it's a disagreeable affair all round . 
What a character for anybody with decent connections to show himself in ! one of those newspaper fellows ! You have only to look at Keck , who manages the Trumpet . 
I saw him the other day with Hawley . 
His writing is sound enough , I believe , but he's such a low fellow , that I wished he had been on the wrong side . 
What can you expect with these peddling Middlemarch papers ? said the Rector . 
I don't suppose you could get a high style of man anywhere to be writing up interests he doesn't really care about , and for pay that hardly keeps him in at elbows . 
Exactly that makes it so annoying that Brooke should have put a man who has a sort of connection with the family in a position of that kind . 
For my part , I think Ladislaw is rather a fool for accepting . 
It is Aquinas's fault , said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
Why didn't he use his interest to get Ladislaw made an attache or sent to India ? That is how families get rid of troublesome sprigs . 
There is no knowing to what lengths the mischief may go , said Sir James , anxiously . 
But if Casaubon says nothing , what can I do ? Oh my dear Sir James , said the Rector , don't let us make too much of all this . 
It is likely enough to end in mere smoke . 
There is one good chance that he will not like to feel his money oozing away , said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
If I knew the items of election expenses I could scare him . 
It's no use plying him with wide words like Expenditure I wouldn't talk of phlebotomy , I would empty a pot of leeches upon him . 
What we good stingy people don't like , is having our sixpences sucked away from us . 
And he will not like having things raked up against him , said Sir James . 
There is the management of his estate . 
they have begun upon that already . 
And it really is painful for me to see . 
It is a nuisance under one's very nose . 
I do think one is bound to do the best for one's land and tenants , especially in these hard times . 
Perhaps the Trumpet' may rouse him to make a change , and some good may come of it all , said the Rector . 
I know I should be glad . 
I should hear less grumbling when my tithe is paid . 
I don't know what I should do if there were not a modus in Tipton . 
I want him to have a proper man to look after things I want him to take on Garth again , said Sir James . 
He got rid of Garth twelve years ago , and everything has been going wrong since . 
I think of getting Garth to manage for me he has made such a capital plan for my buildings and Lovegood is hardly up to the mark . 
But Garth would not undertake the Tipton estate again unless Brooke left it entirely to him . 
In the right of it too , said the Rector . 
Garth is an independent fellow an original , simple minded fellow . 
He would make a different parish of Tipton , if Brooke would let him manage . 
I wish , by the help of the Trumpet , you could bring that round . 
If Dorothea had kept near her uncle , there would have been some chance , said Sir James . 
She might have got some power over him in time , and she was always uneasy about the estate . 
She had wonderfully good notions about such things . 
But now Casaubon takes her up entirely . 
Celia complains a good deal . 
We can hardly get her to dine with us , since he had that fit . 
Sir James ended with a look of pitying disgust , and Mrs. Cadwallader shrugged her shoulders as much as to say that SHE was not likely to see anything new in that direction . 
Poor Casaubon ! the Rector said . 
That was a nasty attack . 
I thought he looked shattered the other day at the Archdeacon's . 
Come , that's a blessing , said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
That helps him to find himself in a morning . 
He may not know his own opinions , but he does know his own pocket . 
I don't believe a man is in pocket by stinginess on his land , said Sir James . 
Oh , stinginess may be abused like other virtues it will not do to keep one's own pigs lean , said Mrs. Cadwallader , who had risen to look out of the window . 
But talk of an independent politician and he will appear . 
What ! Brooke ? said her husband . 
Now , you ply him with the Trumpet , Humphrey and I will put the leeches on him . 
What will you do , Sir James ? The fact is , I don't like to begin about it with Brooke , in our mutual position the whole thing is so unpleasant . 
I do wish people would behave like gentlemen , said the good baronet , feeling that this was a simple and comprehensive programme for social well being . 
Here you all are , eh ? said Mr. Brooke , shuffling round and shaking hands . 
I was going up to the Hall by and by , Chettam . 
But it's pleasant to find everybody , you know . 
Going on faster than we are . 
Why , yes , said the Rector , taking up the newspaper . 
Here is the Trumpet' accusing you of lagging behind did you see ? Eh ? no , said Mr. Brooke , dropping his gloves into his hat and hastily adjusting his eye glass . 
They say he is the most retrogressive man in the county . 
I think you must have taught them that word in the Pioneer . 
Oh , that is Keek an illiterate fellow , you know . 
Retrogressive , now ! Come , that's capital . 
He thinks it means destructive they want to make me out a destructive , you know , said Mr. Brooke , with that cheerfulness which is usually sustained by an adversary's ignorance . 
I think he knows the meaning of the word . 
Here is a sharp stroke or two . 
But we all know the wag's definition of a philanthropist a man whose charity increases directly as the square of the distance . 
And as to roaring myself red and that kind of thing these men never understand what is good satire . 
Satire , you know , should be true up to a certain point . 
I recollect they said that in The Edinburgh' somewhere it must be true up to a certain point . 
Well , that is really a hit about the gates , said Sir James , anxious to tread carefully . 
Dagley complained to me the other day that he hadn't got a decent gate on his farm . 
Garth has invented a new pattern of gate I wish you would try it . 
One ought to use some of one's timber in that way . 
You go in for fancy farming , you know , Chettam , said Mr. Brooke , appearing to glance over the columns of the Trumpet . 
That's your hobby , and you don't mind the expense . 
I thought the most expensive hobby in the world was standing for Parliament , said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
They said the last unsuccessful candidate at Middlemarch Giles , wasn't his name ? spent ten thousand pounds and failed because he did not bribe enough . 
What a bitter reflection for a man ! Somebody was saying , said the Rector , laughingly , that East Retford was nothing to Middlemarch , for bribery . 
Nothing of the kind , said Mr. Brooke . 
The Tories bribe , you know Hawley and his set bribe with treating , hot codlings , and that sort of thing and they bring the voters drunk to the poll . 
But they are not going to have it their own way in future not in future , you know . 
Middlemarch is a little backward , I admit the freemen are a little backward . 
But we shall educate them we shall bring them on , you know . 
The best people there are on our side . 
Hawley says you have men on your side who will do you harm , remarked Sir James . 
He says Bulstrode the banker will do you harm . 
And that if you got pelted , interposed Mrs. Cadwallader , half the rotten eggs would mean hatred of your committee man . 
Good heavens ! Think what it must be to be pelted for wrong opinions . 
I confess that's what I should be afraid of , if we parsons had to stand at the hustings for preferment . 
I should be afraid of their reckoning up all my fishing days . 
Upon my word , I think the truth is the hardest missile one can be pelted with . 
The fact is , said Sir James , if a man goes into public life he must be prepared for the consequences . 
He must make himself proof against calumny . 
My dear Chettam , that is all very fine , you know , said Mr. Brooke . 
But how will you make yourself proof against calumny ? You should read history look at ostracism , persecution , martyrdom , and that kind of thing . 
They always happen to the best men , you know . 
But what is that in Horace ? 'fiat justitia , ruat . 
Exactly , said Sir James , with a little more heat than usual . 
What I mean by being proof against calumny is being able to point to the fact as a contradiction . 
And it is not martyrdom to pay bills that one has run into one's self , said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
But it was Sir James's evident annoyance that most stirred Mr. Brooke . 
Well , you know , Chettam , he said , rising , taking up his hat and leaning on his stick , you and I have a different system . 
You are all for outlay with your farms . 
I don't want to make out that my system is good under all circumstances under all circumstances , you know . 
There ought to be a new valuation made from time to time , said Sir James . 
Returns are very well occasionally , but I like a fair valuation . 
What do you say , Cadwallader ? I agree with you . 
That's a showy sort of thing to do , you know , said Mr. Brooke . 
But I should like you to tell me of another landlord who has distressed his tenants for arrears as little as I have . 
I let the old tenants stay on . 
I'm uncommonly easy , let me tell you , uncommonly easy . 
I have my own ideas , and I take my stand on them , you know . 
A man who does that is always charged with eccentricity , inconsistency , and that kind of thing . 
When I change my line of action , I shall follow my own ideas . 
After that , Mr. Brooke remembered that there was a packet which he had omitted to send off from the Grange , and he bade everybody hurriedly good by . 
I didn't want to take a liberty with Brooke , said Sir James I see he is nettled . 
But as to what he says about old tenants , in point of fact no new tenant would take the farms on the present terms . 
I have a notion that he will be brought round in time , said the Rector . 
But you were pulling one way , Elinor , and we were pulling another . 
You wanted to frighten him away from expense , and we want to frighten him into it . 
Better let him try to be popular and see that his character as a landlord stands in his way . 
I don't think it signifies two straws about the Pioneer , or Ladislaw , or Brooke's speechifying to the Middlemarchers . 
But it does signify about the parishioners in Tipton being comfortable . 
Excuse me , it is you two who are on the wrong tack , said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
You should have proved to him that he loses money by bad management , and then we should all have pulled together . 
If you put him a horseback on politics , I warn you of the consequences . 
It was all very well to ride on sticks at home and call them ideas . 
In this way it happened that one day near four o'clock , when Mr. Brooke and Ladislaw were seated in the library , the door opened and Mrs. Casaubon was announced . 
When Mrs. Casaubon was announced he started up as from an electric shock , and felt a tingling at his finger ends . 
Dorothea's entrance was the freshness of morning . 
Well , my dear , this is pleasant , now , said Mr. Brooke , meeting and kissing her . 
You have left Casaubon with his books , I suppose . 
We must not have you getting too learned for a woman , you know . 
When I want to be busy with books , I am often playing truant among my thoughts . 
I find it is not so easy to be learned as to plan cottages . 
She seated herself beside her uncle opposite to Will , and was evidently preoccupied with something that made her almost unmindful of him . 
He was ridiculously disappointed , as if he had imagined that her coming had anything to do with him . 
Why , yes , my dear , it was quite your hobby to draw plans . 
But it was good to break that off a little . 
Hobbies are apt to ran away with us , you know it doesn't do to be run away with . 
We must keep the reins . 
I have never let myself be run away with I always pulled up . 
That is what I tell Ladislaw . 
He and I are alike , you know he likes to go into everything . 
We are working at capital punishment . 
Oh , how happy ! she went on , clasping her hands , with a return to that more childlike impetuous manner , which had been subdued since her marriage . 
Chettam is a little hasty , my dear , said Mr. Brooke , coloring slightly a little hasty , you know . 
I never said I should do anything of the kind . 
I never said I should NOT do it , you know . 
I think we have no right to come forward and urge wider changes for good , until we have tried to alter the evils which lie under our own hands . 
For the moment , Will's admiration was accompanied with a chilling sense of remoteness . 
A man is seldom ashamed of feeling that he cannot love a woman so well when he sees a certain greatness in her nature having intended greatness for men . 
He could not immediately find any other mode of expressing himself than that of rising , fixing his eye glass , and fingering the papers before him . 
Young ladies are a little ardent , you know a little one sided , my dear . 
Fine art , poetry , that kind of thing , elevates a nation emollit mores you understand a little Latin now . 
I'll come , I'll come . 
I shall let him off easily , you know , said Mr. Brooke aside to Dorothea , shuffling away very cheerfully . 
I hope you feel how right this change is that I that Sir James wishes for , said Dorothea to Will , as soon as her uncle was gone . 
I do , now I have heard you speak about it . 
I shall not forget what you have said . 
Pray tell me what it is , said Dorothea , anxiously , also rising and going to the open window , where Monk was looking in , panting and wagging his tail . 
Will followed her only with his eyes and said , I presume you know that Mr. Casaubon has forbidden me to go to his house . 
No , I did not , said Dorothea , after a moment's pause . 
She was evidently much moved . 
I am very , very sorry , she added , mournfully . 
But his dread of any change in Dorothea was stronger than his discontent , and he began to speak again in a tone of mere explanation . 
Mr. Casaubon's reason is , his displeasure at my taking a position here which he considers unsuited to my rank as his cousin . 
I have told him that I cannot give way on this point . 
It is a little too hard on me to expect that my course in life is to be hampered by prejudices which I think ridiculous . 
Obligation may be stretched till it is no better than a brand of slavery stamped on us when we were too young to know its meaning . 
I would not have accepted the position if I had not meant to make it useful and honorable . 
I am not bound to regard family dignity in any other light . 
She thought her husband altogether in the wrong , on more grounds than Will had mentioned . 
It is better for us not to speak on the subject , she said , with a tremulousness not common in her voice , since you and Mr. Casaubon disagree . 
You intend to remain ? She was looking out on the lawn , with melancholy meditation . 
Yes but I shall hardly ever see you now , said Will , in a tone of almost boyish complaint . 
No , said Dorothea , turning her eyes full upon him , hardly ever . 
But I shall hear of you . 
I shall know what you are doing for my uncle . 
I shall know hardly anything about you , said Will . 
No one will tell me anything . 
Oh , my life is very simple , said Dorothea , her lips curling with an exquisite smile , which irradiated her melancholy . 
I am always at Lowick . 
That is a dreadful imprisonment , said Will , impetuously . 
No , don't think that , said Dorothea . 
He did not speak , but she replied to some change in his expression . 
I mean , for myself . 
Except that I should like not to have so much more than my share without doing anything for others . 
But I have a belief of my own , and it comforts me . 
What is that ? said Will , rather jealous of the belief . 
That is a beautiful mysticism it is a Please not to call it by any name , said Dorothea , putting out her hands entreatingly . 
You will say it is Persian , or something else geographical . 
I have found it out , and cannot part with it . 
I have always been finding out my religion since I was a little girl . 
I used to pray so much now I hardly ever pray . 
I try not to have desires merely for myself , because they may not be good for others , and I have too much already . 
I only told you , that you might know quite well how my days go at Lowick . 
God bless you for telling me ! said Will , ardently , and rather wondering at himself . 
They were looking at each other like two fond children who were talking confidentially of birds . 
What is YOUR religion ? said Dorothea . 
I mean not what you know about religion , but the belief that helps you most ? To love what is good and beautiful when I see it , said Will . 
But I am a rebel I don't feel bound , as you do , to submit to what I don't like . 
But if you like what is good , that comes to the same thing , said Dorothea , smiling . 
Now you are subtle , said Will . 
Yes Mr. Casaubon often says I am too subtle . 
I don't feel as if I were subtle , said Dorothea , playfully . 
But how long my uncle is ! I must go and look for him . 
I must really go on to the Hall . 
Dorothea renewed the subject of the estate as they drove along , but Mr. Brooke , not being taken unawares , got the talk under his own control . 
It's a little against my feeling poaching , now , if you come to look into it I have often thought of getting up the subject . 
Not long ago , Flavell , the Methodist preacher , was brought up for knocking down a hare that came across his path when he and his wife were walking out together . 
He was pretty quick , and knocked it on the neck . 
That was very brutal , I think , said Dorothea Well , now , it seemed rather black to me , I confess , in a Methodist preacher , you know . 
And Johnson said , You may judge what a hypoCRITE he is . 
But really , when I came to think of it , I couldn't help liking that the fellow should have a bit of hare to say grace over . 
It's all a matter of prejudice prejudice with the law on its side , you know about the stick and the gaiters , and so on . 
However , it doesn't do to reason about things and law is law . 
But I got Johnson to be quiet , and I hushed the matter up . 
I doubt whether Chettam would not have been more severe , and yet he comes down on me as if I were the hardest man in the county . 
But here we are at Dagley's . 
Mr. Brooke got down at a farmyard gate , and Dorothea drove on . 
It is wonderful how much uglier things will look when we only suspect that we are blamed for them . 
Dagley's homestead never before looked so dismal to Mr. Brooke as it did today , with his mind thus sore about the fault finding of the Trumpet , echoed by Sir James . 
lying against the open back kitchen door . 
But these troublesome associations were just now strongly present to Mr. Brooke , and spoiled the scene for him . 
Mr. Dagley himself made a figure in the landscape , carrying a pitchfork and wearing his milking hat a very old beaver flattened in front . 
These liquors have so far truth in them that they were not false enough to make poor Dagley seem merry they only made his discontent less tongue tied than usual . 
Dagley , my good fellow , began Mr. Brooke , conscious that he was going to be very friendly about the boy . 
I'm glad to hear I'm a good feller . 
How do you do , Mrs. Dagley ? said Mr. Brooke , making some haste . 
I came to tell you about your boy I don't want you to give him the stick , you know . 
He was careful to speak quite plainly this time . 
But her husband was beforehand in answering . 
No , nor he woon't hev the stick , whether you want it or no , pursued Dagley , throwing out his voice , as if he wanted it to hit hard . 
You've got no call to come an' talk about sticks o' these primises , as you woon't give a stick tow'rt mending . 
Go to Middlemarch to ax for YOUR charrickter . 
You'd far better hold your tongue , Dagley , said the wife , and not kick your own trough over . 
When a man as is father of a family has been an' spent money at market and made himself the worse for liquor , he's done enough mischief for one day . 
But I should like to know what my boy's done , sir . 
Niver do you mind what he's done , said Dagley , more fiercely , it's my business to speak , an' not yourn . 
An' I wull speak , too . 
I'll hev my say supper or no . 
My good fellow , you're drunk , you know , said Mr. Brooke , confidentially but not judiciously . 
Another day , another day , he added , turning as if to go . 
But Dagley immediately fronted him , and Fag at his heels growled low , as his master's voice grew louder and more insulting , while Monk also drew close in silent dignified watch . 
The laborers on the wagon were pausing to listen , and it seemed wiser to be quite passive than to attempt a ridiculous flight pursued by a bawling man . 
I'm no more drunk nor you are , nor so much , said Dagley . 
I can carry my liquor , an' I know what I meean . 
An' there's them i' Middlemarch knows what the Rinform is an' as knows who'll hev to scuttle . 
Says they , I know who YOUR landlord is . 
An' says I , I hope you're the better for knowin' him , I arn't . 
Says they , He's a close fisted un . 
Ay ay , says I. He's a man for the Rinform , says they . 
An' I made out what the Rinform were an' it were to send you an' your likes a scuttlin' an' wi' pretty strong smellin' things too . 
An' you may do as you like now , for I'm none afeard on you . 
An' you'd better let my boy aloan , an' look to yoursen , afore the Rinform has got upo' your back . 
That's what I'n got to say , concluded Mr. Dagley , striking his fork into the ground with a firmness which proved inconvenient as he tried to draw it up again . 
At this last action Monk began to bark loudly , and it was a moment for Mr. Brooke to escape . 
He walked out of the yard as quickly as he could , in some amazement at the novelty of his situation . 
When he had quarrelled with Caleb Garth twelve years before he had thought that the tenants would be pleased at the landlord's taking everything into his own hands . 
Poor Dagley read a few verses sometimes on a Sunday evening , and the world was at least not darker to him than it had been before . 
Wise in his daily work was he To fruits of diligence , And not to faiths or polity , He plied his utmost sense . 
The group I am moving towards is at Caleb Garth's breakfast table in the large parlor where the maps and desk were father , mother , and five of the children . 
The talk among the rest went on unrestrainedly , for nothing disturbed Caleb's absorption except shaking the table when he was writing . 
Two letters of the nine had been for Mary . 
Oh , don't sew , Mary ! said Ben , pulling her arm down . 
Make me a peacock with this bread crumb . 
He had been kneading a small mass for the purpose . 
No , no , Mischief ! said Mary , good humoredly , while she pricked his hand lightly with her needle . 
Try and mould it yourself you have seen me do it often enough . 
I must get this sewing done . 
It is for Rosamond Vincy she is to be married next week , and she can't be married without this handkerchief . 
Mary ended merrily , amused with the last notion . 
Have you made up your mind , my dear ? said Mrs. Garth , laying the letters down . 
I shall go to the school at York , said Mary . 
I am less unfit to teach in a school than in a family . 
I like to teach classes best . 
And , you see , I must teach there is nothing else to be done . 
Teaching seems to me the most delightful work in the world , said Mrs. Garth , with a touch of rebuke in her tone . 
I could understand your objection to it if you had not knowledge enough , Mary , or if you disliked children . 
I suppose we never quite understand why another dislikes what we like , mother , said Mary , rather curtly . 
I am not fond of a schoolroom I like the outside world better . 
It is a very inconvenient fault of mine . 
It must be very stupid to be always in a girls' school , said Alfred . 
Such a set of nincompoops , like Mrs. Ballard's pupils walking two and two . 
And they have no games worth playing at , said Jim . 
They can neither throw nor leap . 
I don't wonder at Mary's not liking it . 
What is that Mary doesn't like , eh ? said the father , looking over his spectacles and pausing before he opened his next letter . 
Being among a lot of nincompoop girls , said Alfred . 
Is it the situation you had heard of , Mary ? said Caleb , gently , looking at his daughter . 
Yes , father the school at York . 
I have determined to take it . 
It is quite the best . 
Thirty five pounds a year , and extra pay for teaching the smallest strummers at the piano . 
Poor child ! I wish she could stay at home with us , Susan , said Caleb , looking plaintively at his wife . 
Mary would not be happy without doing her duty , said Mrs. Garth , magisterially , conscious of having done her own . 
And suppose that Mary could help you to go to Mr. Hanmer's with the money she gets ? That seems to me a great shame . 
But she's an old brick , said Alfred , rising from his chair , and pulling Mary's head backward to kiss her . 
Mary colored and laughed , but could not conceal that the tears were coming . 
But Mrs. Garth's eyes were now drawn towards her husband , who was already deep in the letter he was reading . 
Brooke didn't like to ask me himself , I can see , he continued , laughing silently . 
Here is an honor to your father , children , said Mrs. Garth , looking round at the five pair of eyes , all fixed on the parents . 
He is asked to take a post again by those who dismissed him long ago . 
That shows that he did his work well , so that they feel the want of him . 
Like Cincinnatus hooray ! said Ben , riding on his chair , with a pleasant confidence that discipline was relaxed . 
Will they come to fetch him , mother ? said Letty , thinking of the Mayor and Corporation in their robes . 
Oh yes , said Caleb , in a deep voice of assent , as if it would be unreasonable to suppose anything else of him . 
It'll come to between four and five hundred , the two together . 
Then with a little start of remembrance he said , Mary , write and give up that school . 
Stay and help your mother . 
I'm as pleased as Punch , now I've thought of that . 
At last he said It's a thousand pities Christy didn't take to business , Susan . 
I shall want help by and by . 
And Alfred must go off to the engineering I've made up my mind to that . 
And I'll lay a wager we can get fine bricks out of the clay at Bott's corner . 
I must look into that it would cheapen the repairs . 
It's a fine bit of work , Susan ! A man without a family would be glad to do it for nothing . 
Mind you don't , though , said his wife , lifting up her finger . 
I'd sooner have it than a fortune . 
I hold it the most honorable work that is . 
That it is , Caleb , said his wife , with answering fervor . 
And it will be a blessing to your children to have had a father who did such work a father whose good work remains though his name may be forgotten . 
She could not say any more to him then about the pay . 
We know that he was fond of his parishioners the Garths , and had thought Mary worth mentioning to Lydgate . 
Still , you see , he spent his evenings at the Vincys' , where the matron , though less of a lady , presided over a well lit drawing room and whist . 
In those days human intercourse was not determined solely by respect . 
But the Vicar did heartily respect the Garths , and a visit from him was no surprise to that family . 
Mary's heart beat rather quickly she wondered how far Fred's confidence had gone . 
We haven't seen the lad for months , said Caleb . 
I couldn't think what was become of him . 
But yesterday he came and poured himself out to me . 
But it is a difficult case to advise upon . 
Tell him it doesn't signify a farthing , said Caleb , waving his hand . 
We've had the pinch and have got over it . 
And now I'm going to be as rich as a Jew . 
Which means , said Mrs. Garth , smiling at the Vicar , that we are going to have enough to bring up the boys well and to keep Mary at home . 
What is the treasure trove ? said Mr. Farebrother . 
What people do who go into politics I can't think it drives me almost mad to see mismanagement over only a few hundred acres . 
It was seldom that Caleb volunteered so long a speech , but his happiness had the effect of mountain air his eyes were bright , and the words came without effort . 
I congratulate you heartily , Garth , said the Vicar . 
I wish Fred were not such an idle dog he has some very good points , and his father is a little hard upon him . 
Where is he going ? said Mrs. Garth , rather coldly . 
He means to try again for his degree , and he is going up to study before term . 
I have advised him to do that . 
I don't urge him to enter the Church on the contrary . 
So far he will please his father , and I have promised in the mean time to try and reconcile Vincy to his son's adopting some other line of life . 
Fred says frankly he is not fit for a clergyman , and I would do anything I could to hinder a man from the fatal step of choosing the wrong profession . 
Mary felt uncomfortable , but , determined to take the matter lightly , answered at once , I have said so many impertinent things to Fred we are such old playfellows . 
You said , according to him , that he would be one of those ridiculous clergymen who help to make the whole clergy ridiculous . 
Really , that was so cutting that I felt a little cut myself . 
She gets her tongue from you , Susan , he said , with some enjoyment . 
Not its flippancy , father , said Mary , quickly , fearing that her mother would be displeased . 
It is rather too bad of Fred to repeat my flippant speeches to Mr. Farebrother . 
It was certainly a hasty speech , my dear , said Mrs. Garth , with whom speaking evil of dignities was a high misdemeanor . 
We should not value our Vicar the less because there was a ridiculous curate in the next parish . 
There's something in what she says , though , said Caleb , not disposed to have Mary's sharpness undervalued . 
A bad workman of any sort makes his fellows mistrusted . 
Things hang together , he added , looking on the floor and moving his feet uneasily with a sense that words were scantier than thoughts . 
Clearly , said the Vicar , amused . 
By being contemptible we set men's minds , to the tune of contempt . 
I certainly agree with Miss Garth's view of the matter , whether I am condemned by it or not . 
But as to Fred Vincy , it is only fair he should be excused a little old Featherstone's delusive behavior did help to spoil him . 
There was something quite diabolical in not leaving him a farthing after all . 
But Fred has the good taste not to dwell on that . 
And what he cares most about is having offended you , Mrs. Garth he supposes you will never think well of him again . 
I have been disappointed in Fred , said Mrs. Garth , with decision . 
But I shall be ready to think well of him again when he gives me good reason to do so . 
At this point Mary went out of the room , taking Letty with her . 
Oh , we must forgive young people when they're sorry , said Caleb , watching Mary close the door . 
And as you say , Mr. Farebrother , there was the very devil in that old man . 
Now Mary's gone out , I must tell you a thing it's only known to Susan and me , and you'll not tell it again . 
But Mary , you understand , could do no such thing would not be handling his iron chest , and so on . 
Now , you see , the will he wanted burnt was this last , so that if Mary had done what he wanted , Fred Vincy would have had ten thousand pounds . 
The old man did turn to him at the last . 
Now , what is your opinion , sir ? Susan doesn't agree with me . 
She says tell what you say , Susan . 
And she was quite ignorant of it . 
It seems to me , a loss which falls on another because we have done right is not to lie upon our conscience . 
The Vicar did not answer immediately , and Caleb said , It's the feeling . 
The child feels in that way , and I feel with her . 
You don't mean your horse to tread on a dog when you're backing out of the way but it goes through you , when it's done . 
I am sure Mrs. Garth would agree with you there , said Mr. Farebrother , who for some reason seemed more inclined to ruminate than to speak . 
One could hardly say that the feeling you mention about Fred is wrong or rather , mistaken though no man ought to make a claim on such feeling . 
Well , well , said Caleb , it's a secret . 
You will not tell Fred . 
But I shall carry the other good news that you can afford the loss he caused you . 
Mr. Farebrother left the house soon after , and seeing Mary in the orchard with Letty , went to say good by to her . 
Mary admired the keen faced handsome little Vicar in his well brushed threadbare clothes more than any man she had had the opportunity of knowing . 
These irregularities of judgment , I imagine , are found even in riper minds than Mary Garth's our impartiality is kept for abstract merit and demerit , which none of us ever saw . 
Something to soften down that harsh judgment ? I am going straight to see him . 
No , said Mary , shaking her head , and smiling . 
If I were to say that he would not be ridiculous as a clergyman , I must say that he would be something worse than ridiculous . 
But I am very glad to hear that he is going away to work . 
On the other hand , I am very glad to hear that YOU are not going away to work . 
You will really be doing a kindness . 
I should like it very much , if I may , said Mary . 
Everything seems too happy for me all at once . 
But she was made exultant by having her chin pinched and her cheek kissed by Mr. Farebrother an incident which she narrated to her mother and father . 
As the Vicar walked to Lowick , any one watching him closely might have seen him twice shrug his shoulders . 
The rejoinder to this was the first shrug . 
Whereupon followed the second shrug . 
When Mr. and Mrs. Garth were sitting alone , Caleb said , Susan , guess what I'm thinking of . 
The rotation of crops , said Mrs. Garth , smiling at him , above her knitting , or else the back doors of the Tipton cottages . 
No , said Caleb , gravely I am thinking that I could do a great turn for Fred Vincy . 
Christy's gone , Alfred will be gone soon , and it will be five years before Jim is ready to take to business . 
What do you think ? I think , there is hardly anything honest that his family would object to more , said Mrs. Garth , decidedly . 
What care I about their objecting ? said Caleb , with a sturdiness which he was apt to show when he had an opinion . 
The lad is of age and must get his bread . 
He has sense enough and quickness enough he likes being on the land , and it's my belief that he could learn business well if he gave his mind to it . 
But would he ? His father and mother wanted him to be a fine gentleman , and I think he has the same sort of feeling himself . 
They all think us beneath them . 
And if the proposal came from you , I am sure Mrs. Vincy would say that we wanted Fred for Mary . 
Life is a poor tale , if it is to be settled by nonsense of that sort , said Caleb , with disgust . 
Yes , but there is a certain pride which is proper , Caleb . 
I call it improper pride to let fools' notions hinder you from doing a good action . 
You must have it inside you that your plan is right , and that plan you must follow . 
And you are not yet quite sure enough of your own position , or what you will want . 
Well , it may be better to wait a bit . 
But as to my getting plenty of work for two , I'm pretty sure of that . 
I've always had my hands full with scattered things , and there's always something fresh turning up . 
And who do you think they were ? said Caleb , taking a pinch of snuff and holding it up between his fingers , as if it were a part of his exposition . 
He was fond of a pinch when it occurred to him , but he usually forgot that this indulgence was at his command . 
His wife held down her knitting and looked attentive . 
Why , that Rigg , or Rigg Featherstone , was one . 
But Bulstrode was before him , so I'm going to do it for Bulstrode . 
Whether it's mortgage or purchase they're going for , I can't tell yet . 
Can that man be going to sell the land just left him which he has taken the name for ? said Mrs. Garth . 
Deuce knows , said Caleb , who never referred the knowledge of discreditable doings to any higher power than the deuce . 
But Bulstrode has long been wanting to get a handsome bit of land under his fingers that I know . 
And it's a difficult matter to get , in this part of the country . 
Caleb scattered his snuff carefully instead of taking it , and then added , The ins and outs of things are curious . 
I say , it would be curious if it got into Bulstrode's hands after all . 
The old man hated him , and never would bank with him . 
What reason could the miserable creature have for hating a man whom he had nothing to do with ? said Mrs. Garth . 
By swaggering could I never thrive , For the rain it raineth every day . 
Such conditions are often minutely represented in our petty lifetimes . 
To Uriel watching the progress of planetary history from the sun , the one result would be just as much of a coincidence as the other . 
It would be well , certainly , if we could help to reduce their number , and something might perhaps be done by not lightly giving occasion to their existence . 
Socially speaking , Joshua Rigg would have been generally pronounced a superfluity . 
But those who like Peter Featherstone never had a copy of themselves demanded , are the very last to wait for such a request either in prose or verse . 
The result is sometimes a frog faced male , desirable , surely , to no order of intelligent beings . 
Especially when he is suddenly brought into evidence to frustrate other people's expectations the very lowest aspect in which a social superfluity can present himself . 
But Mr. Rigg Featherstone's low characteristics were all of the sober , water drinking kind . 
whose person was good , and whose connections , in a solid middle class way , were undeniable . 
Such were the appearance and mental flavor of Mr. Raffles , both of which seemed to have a stale odor of travellers' rooms in the commercial hotels of that period . 
Nothing would make her comfortable while you live , returned Rigg , in his cool high voice . 
What I give her , you'll take . 
You bear me a grudge , Josh , that I know . 
But come , now as between man and man without humbug a little capital might enable me to make a first rate thing of the shop . 
The tobacco trade is growing . 
I should cut my own nose off in not doing the best I could at it . 
I should stick to it like a flea to a fleece for my own sake . 
I should always be on the spot . 
And nothing would make your poor mother so happy . 
I've pretty well done with my wild oats turned fifty five . 
I want to settle down in my chimney corner . 
And if I once buckled to the tobacco trade , I could bring an amount of brains and experience to bear on it that would not be found elsewhere in a hurry . 
I don't want to be bothering you one time after another , but to get things once for all into the right channel . 
Consider that , Josh as between man and man and with your poor mother to be made easy for her life . 
I was always fond of the old woman , by Jove ! Have you done ? said Mr. Rigg , quietly , without looking away from the window . 
Yes , I've done , said Raffles , taking hold of his hat which stood before him on the table , and giving it a sort of oratorical push . 
Then just listen to me . 
The more you say anything , the less I shall believe it . 
The more you want me to do a thing , the more reason I shall have for never doing it . 
My mother was a fool to you she'd no right to give me a father in law , and she's been punished for it . 
The next time you show yourself inside the gates here , you shall be driven off with the dogs and the wagoner's whip . 
As Rigg pronounced the last words he turned round and looked at Raffles with his prominent frozen eyes . 
But the advantage now was on the side of Rigg , and auditors of this conversation might probably have expected that Raffles would retire with the air of a defeated dog . 
He made a grimace which was habitual with him whenever he was out in a game then subsided into a laugh , and drew a brandy flask from his pocket . 
Come , Josh , he said , in a cajoling tone , give us a spoonful of brandy , and a sovereign to pay the way back , and I'll go . 
That's a pity , now , Josh , said Raffles , affecting to scratch his head and wrinkle his brows upward as if he were nonplussed . 
I'm very fond of you BY Jove , I am ! There's nothing I like better than plaguing you you're so like your mother , and I must do without it . 
But the brandy and the sovereign's a bargain . 
He jerked forward the flask and Rigg went to a fine old oaken bureau with his keys . 
By that time Rigg came forward with a brandy bottle , filled the flask , and handed Raffles a sovereign , neither looking at him nor speaking to him . 
Farewell , Josh and if forever ! said Raffles , turning back his head as he opened the door . 
Rigg saw him leave the grounds and enter the lane . 
But there were none to stare at him except the long weaned calves , and none to show dislike of his appearance except the little water rats which rustled away at his approach . 
He played this part now with as much spirit as if his journey had been entirely successful , resorting at frequent intervals to his flask . 
The paper with which he had wedged it was a letter signed Nicholas Bulstrode , but Raffles was not likely to disturb it from its present useful position . 
How much , methinks , I could despise this man Were I not bound in charity against it ! SHAKESPEARE Henry VIII . 
That was the way with Mr. Casaubon's hard intellectual labors . 
Thus his intellectual ambition which seemed to others to have absorbed and dried him , was really no security against wounds , least of all against those which came from Dorothea . 
And he had begun now to frame possibilities for the future which were somehow more embittering to him than anything his mind had dwelt on before . 
His discontent passed vapor like through all her gentle loving manifestations , and clung to that inappreciative world which she had only brought nearer to him . 
The tenacity with which he strove to hide this inward drama made it the more vivid for him as we hear with the more keenness what we wish others not to hear . 
Instead of wondering at this result of misery in Mr. Casaubon , I think it quite ordinary . 
Suspicion and jealousy of Will Ladislaw's intentions , suspicion and jealousy of Dorothea's impressions , were constantly at their weaving work . 
What he was jealous of was her opinion , the sway that might be given to her ardent mind in its judgments , and the future possibilities to which these might lead her . 
had led to a scene which roused an angrier feeling against them both than he had ever known before . 
Dorothea's outpouring of her notions about money , in the darkness of the night , had done nothing but bring a mixture of more odious foreboding into her husband's mind . 
And there was the shock lately given to his health always sadly present with him . 
This is a very bare and therefore a very incomplete way of putting the case . 
The way in which Mr. Casaubon put the case was this In marrying Dorothea Brooke I had to care for her well being in case of my death . 
But well being is not to be secured by ample , independent possession of property on the contrary , occasions might arise in which such possession might expose her to the more danger . 
Even if I live I shall not be without uneasiness as to what he may attempt through indirect influence . 
This man has gained Dorothea's ear he has fascinated her attention he has evidently tried to impress her mind with the notion that he has claims beyond anything I have done for him . 
If I die and he is waiting here on the watch for that he will persuade her to marry him . 
That would be calamity for her and success for him . 
He thinks of an easy conquest and of entering into my nest . 
That I will hinder ! Such a marriage would be fatal to Dorothea . 
Has he ever persisted in anything except from contradiction ? In knowledge he has always tried to be showy at small cost . 
In religion he could be , as long as it suited him , the facile echo of Dorothea's vagaries . 
When was sciolism ever dissociated from laxity ? I utterly distrust his morals , and it is my duty to hinder to the utmost the fulfilment of his designs . 
You need not see him , my dear . 
I shall give orders that he may be sent to me in the Yew tree Walk , where I shall be taking my usual exercise . 
When Lydgate entered the Yew tree Walk he saw Mr. Casaubon slowly receding with his hands behind him according to his habit , and his head bent forward . 
Poor fellow , he thought , some men with his years are like lions one can tell nothing of their age except that they are full grown . 
Mr. Lydgate , said Mr. Casaubon , with his invariably po lite air , I am exceedingly obliged to you for your punctuality . 
We will , if you please , carry on our conversation in walking to and fro . 
I hope your wish to see me is not due to the return of unpleasant symptoms , said Lydgate , filling up a pause . 
Here Mr. Casaubon paused , removed one hand from his back and thrust it between the buttons of his single breasted coat . 
He was at present too ill acquainted with disaster to enter into the pathos of a lot where everything is below the level of tragedy except the passionate egoism of the sufferer . 
You refer to the possible hindrances from want of health ? he said , wishing to help forward Mr. Casaubon's purpose , which seemed to be clogged by some hesitation . 
You have not implied to me that the symptoms which I am bound to testify you watched with scrupulous care , were those of a fatal disease . 
If you can tell me that my life is not threatened by anything else than ordinary casualties , I shall rejoice , on grounds which I have already indicated . 
If not , knowledge of the truth is even more important to me . 
In any ease , one can hardly increase appreciably the tremendous uncertainty of life . 
Mr. Casaubon winced perceptibly , but bowed . 
A good deal of experience a more lengthened observation is wanting on the subject . 
But after what you have said , it is my duty to tell you that death from this disease is often sudden . 
At the same time , no such result can be predicted . 
Your condition may be consistent with a tolerably comfortable life for another fifteen years , or even more . 
I could add no information to this beyond anatomical or medical details , which would leave expectation at precisely the same point . 
Lydgate's instinct was fine enough to tell him that plain speech , quite free from ostentatious caution , would be felt by Mr. Casaubon as a tribute of respect . 
I thank you , Mr. Lydgate , said Mr. Casaubon , after a moment's pause . 
One thing more I have still to ask did you communicate what you have now told me to Mrs. Casaubon ? Partly I mean , as to the possible issues . 
What was Mr. Casaubon's bias his acts will give us a clew to . 
He held himself to be , with some private scholarly reservations , a believing Christian , as to estimates of the present and hopes of the future . 
And Mr. Casaubon's immediate desire was not for divine communion and light divested of earthly conditions his passionate longings , poor man , clung low and mist like in very shady places . 
Dorothea had been aware when Lydgate had ridden away , and she had stepped into the garden , with the impulse to go at once to her husband . 
His glance in reply to hers was so chill that she felt her timidity increased yet she turned and passed her hand through his arm . 
Mr. Casaubon kept his hands behind him and allowed her pliant arm to cling with difficulty against his rigid arm . 
There was something horrible to Dorothea in the sensation which this unresponsive hardness inflicted on her . 
You may ask why , in the name of manliness , Mr. Casaubon should have behaved in that way . 
Dorothea did not withdraw her arm , but she could not venture to speak . 
He entered the library and shut himself in , alone with his sorrow . 
She went up to her boudoir . 
The open bow window let in the serene glory of the afternoon lying in the avenue , where the lime trees east long shadows . 
But Dorothea knew nothing of the scene . 
Instead of tears there came words What have I done what am I that he should treat me so ? He never knows what is in my mind he never cares . 
What is the use of anything I do ? He wishes he had never married me . 
She began to hear herself , and was checked into stillness . 
Like one who has lost his way and is weary , she sat and saw as in one glance all the paths of her young hope which she should never find again . 
And just as clearly in the miserable light she saw her own and her husband's solitude how they walked apart so that she was obliged to survey him . 
Now she said bitterly , It is his fault , not mine . 
In the jar of her whole being , Pity was overthrown . 
In such a crisis as this , some women begin to hate . 
He might wonder and be hurt at her message . 
It was good that he should wonder and be hurt . 
She had determined to ring her bell , when there came a rap at the door . 
Mr. Casaubon had sent to say that he would have his dinner in the library . 
He wished to be quite alone this evening , being much occupied . 
I shall not dine , then , Tantripp . 
Oh , madam , let me bring you a little something ? No I am not well . 
Get everything ready in my dressing room , but pray do not disturb me again . 
Dorothea sat almost motionless in her meditative struggle , while the evening slowly deepened into night . 
But the struggle changed continually , as that of a man who begins with a movement towards striking and ends with conquering his desire to strike . 
The energy that would animate a crime is not more than is wanted to inspire a resolved , submission , when the noble habit of the soul reasserts itself . 
If he did not come soon she thought that she would go down and even risk incurring another pang . 
She would never again expect anything else . 
But she did hear the library door open , and slowly the light advanced up the staircase without noise from the footsteps on the carpet . 
When her husband stood opposite to her , she saw that his face was more haggard . 
He started slightly on seeing her , and she looked up at him beseechingly , without speaking . 
Dorothea ! he said , with a gentle surprise in his tone . 
Were you waiting for me ? Yes , I did not like to disturb you . 
Come , my dear , come . 
You are young , and need not to extend your life by watching . 
She put her hand into her husband's , and they went along the broad corridor together . 
BOOK V. THE DEAD HAND . 
Poor Dorothea needed to lay up stores of patience . 
It was about four o'clock when she drove to Lydgate's house in Lowick Gate , wishing , in her immediate doubt of finding him at home , that she had written beforehand . 
And he was not at home . 
Is Mrs. Lydgate at home ? said Dorothea , who had never , that she knew of , seen Rosamond , but now remembered the fact of the marriage . 
Yes , Mrs. Lydgate was at home . 
I will go in and speak to her , if she will allow me . 
But the roulades broke off suddenly , and then the servant came back saying that Mrs. Lydgate would be happy to see Mrs. Casaubon . 
When the drawing room door opened and Dorothea entered , there was a sort of contrast not infrequent in country life when the habits of the different ranks were less blent than now . 
It always seemed to have been lately washed , and to smell of the sweet hedges was always in the shape of a pelisse with sleeves hanging all out of the fashion . 
By the present audience of two persons , no dramatic heroine could have been expected with more interest than Mrs. Casaubon . 
The gentleman was too much occupied with the presence of the one woman to reflect on the contrast between the two a contrast that would certainly have been striking to a calm observer . 
Thank you very much for allowing me to interrupt you , said Dorothea , immediately . 
He is at the New Hospital , said Rosamond I am not sure how soon he will come home . 
But I can send for him , Will you let me go and fetch him ? said Will Ladislaw , coming forward . 
He had already taken up his hat before Dorothea entered . 
She colored with surprise , but put out her hand with a smile of unmistakable pleasure , saying I did not know it was you I had no thought of seeing you here . 
May I go to the Hospital and tell Mr. Lydgate that you wish to see him ? said Will . 
It would be quicker to send the carriage for him , said Dorothea , if you will be kind enough to give the message to the coachman . 
Will was moving to the door when Dorothea , whose mind had flashed in an instant over many connected memories , turned quickly and said , I will go myself , thank you . 
I wish to lose no time before getting home again . 
I will drive to the Hospital and see Mr. Lydgate there . 
Pray excuse me , Mrs. Lydgate . 
I am very much obliged to you . 
She took the arm but said nothing . 
Will was feeling rather vexed and miserable , and found nothing to say on his side . 
He handed her into the carriage in silence , they said good by , and Dorothea drove away . 
In the five minutes' drive to the Hospital she had time for some reflections that were quite new to her . 
That was all that had been explicitly in her mind but she had been urged also by a vague discomfort . 
Still there had been signs which perhaps she ought to have understood as implying that Mr. Casaubon did not like his cousin's visits during his own absence . 
Perhaps I have been mistaken in many things , said poor Dorothea to herself , while the tears came rolling and she had to dry them quickly . 
She felt confusedly unhappy , and the image of Will which had been so clear to her before was mysteriously spoiled . 
But the carriage stopped at the gate of the Hospital . 
She was soon walking round the grass plots with Lydgate , and her feelings recovered the strong bent which had made her seek for this interview . 
Will Ladislaw , meanwhile , was mortified , and knew the reason of it clearly enough . 
His chances of meeting Dorothea were rare and here for the first time there had come a chance which had set him at a disadvantage . 
He felt thrust to a new distance from her , amongst the circles of Middlemarchers who made no part of her life . 
Lydgate was really better worth knowing than any one else in the neighborhood , and he happened to have a wife who was musical and altogether worth calling upon . 
Here was the whole history of the situation in which Diana had descended too unexpectedly on her worshipper . 
Perhaps Casaubon , in his hatred and jealousy , had been insisting to Dorothea that Will had slid below her socially . 
May I come another day and just finish about the rendering of Lungi dal caro bene' ? I shall be happy to be taught , said Rosamond . 
But I am sure you admit that the interruption was a very beautiful one . 
I quite envy your acquaintance with Mrs. Casaubon . 
Is she very clever ? She looks as if she were . 
Really , I never thought about it , said Will , sulkily . 
That is just the answer Tertius gave me , when I first asked him if she were handsome . 
What is it that you gentlemen are thinking of when you are with Mrs. Casaubon ? Herself , said Will , not indisposed to provoke the charming Mrs. Lydgate . 
When one sees a perfect woman , one never thinks of her attributes one is conscious of her presence . 
I shall be jealous when Tertius goes to Lowick , said Rosamond , dimpling , and speaking with aery lightness . 
He will come back and think nothing of me . 
That does not seem to have been the effect on Lydgate hitherto . 
Mrs. Casaubon is too unlike other women for them to be compared with her . 
You are a devout worshipper , I perceive . 
You often see her , I suppose . 
No , said Will , almost pettishly . 
Worship is usually a matter of theory rather than of practice . 
But I am practising it to excess just at this moment I must really tear myself away . 
Pray come again some evening Mr. Lydgate will like to hear the music , and I cannot enjoy it so well without him . 
Do you think he disliked her seeing him at our house ? Surely your position is more than equal to his whatever may be his relation to the Casaubons . 
No , no it must be something else if he were really vexed , Ladislaw is a sort of gypsy he thinks nothing of leather and prunella . 
Music apart , he is not always very agreeable . 
Do you like him ? Yes I think he is a good fellow rather miscellaneous and bric a brac , but likable . 
Do you know , I think he adores Mrs. Casaubon . 
Poor devil ! said Lydgate , smiling and pinching his wife's ears . 
Still , vanity , with a woman's whole mind and day to work in , can construct abundantly on slight hints , especially on such a hint as the possibility of indefinite conquests . 
I am sure you do not neglect your work . 
You are always at the Hospital , or seeing poor patients , or thinking about some doctor's quarrel and then at home you always want to pore over your microscope and phials . 
Confess you like those things better than me . 
A man must work , to do that , my pet . 
Of course , I wish you to make discoveries no one could more wish you to attain a high position in some better place than Middlemarch . 
You cannot say that I have ever tried to hinder you from working . 
But we cannot live like hermits . 
You are not discontented with me , Tertius ? No , dear , no . 
I am too entirely contented . 
But what did Mrs. Casaubon want to say to you ? Merely to ask about her husband's health . 
But I think she is going to be splendid to our New Hospital I think she will give us two hundred a year . 
I would not creep along the coast but steer Out in mid sea , by guidance of the stars . 
Yes , indeed , said Dorothea , brightening . 
I shall be quite grateful to you if you will tell me how I can help to make things a little better . 
Everything of that sort has slipped away from me since I have been married . 
But here in such a place as Middlemarch there must be a great deal to be done . 
There is everything to be done , said Lydgate , with abrupt energy . 
And this Hospital is a capital piece of work , due entirely to Mr. Bulstrode's exertions , and in a great degree to his money . 
But one man can't do everything in a scheme of this sort . 
Of course he looked forward to help . 
And now there's a mean , petty feud set up against the thing in the town , by certain persons who want to make it a failure . 
What can be their reasons ? said Dorothea , with naive surprise . 
Chiefly Mr. Bulstrode's unpopularity , to begin with . 
Half the town would almost take trouble for the sake of thwarting him . 
In this stupid world most people never consider that a thing is good to be done unless it is done by their own set . 
I had no connection with Bulstrode before I came here . 
I look at him quite impartially , and I see that he has some notions that he has set things on foot which I can turn to good public purpose . 
That's my point of view . 
I hold that by refusing to work with Mr. Bulstrode I should be turning my back on an opportunity of making my profession more generally serviceable . 
I quite agree with you , said Dorothea , at once fascinated by the situation sketched in Lydgate's words . 
But what is there against Mr. Bulstrode ? I know that my uncle is friendly with him . 
People don't like his religious tone , said Lydgate , breaking off there . 
That is all the stronger reason for despising such an opposition , said Dorothea , looking at the affairs of Middlemarch by the light of the great persecutions . 
Of course I am glad of that . 
It gives me an opportunity of doing some good work , and I am aware that I have to justify his choice of me . 
How very petty ! exclaimed Dorothea , indignantly . 
I suppose one must expect to fight one's way there is hardly anything to be done without it . 
And the ignorance of people about here is stupendous . 
And the course is all the clearer from there being no salary in question to put my persistence in an equivocal light . 
I am glad you have told me this , Mr. Lydgate , said Dorothea , cordially . 
I feel sure I can help a little . 
I have some money , and don't know what to do with it that is often an uncomfortable thought to me . 
I am sure I can spare two hundred a year for a grand purpose like this . 
How happy you must be , to know things that you feel sure will do great good ! I wish I could awake with that knowledge every morning . 
There seems to be so much trouble taken that one can hardly see the good of ! There was a melancholy cadence in Dorothea's voice as she spoke these last words . 
But she presently added , more cheerfully , Pray come to Lowick and tell us more of this . 
I will mention the subject to Mr. Casaubon . 
I must hasten home now . 
He did not care himself about spending money , and was not reluctant to give it . 
If he ever felt keenly any question of money it was through the medium of another passion than the love of material property . 
Dorothea told him that she had seen Lydgate , and recited the gist of her conversation with him about the Hospital . 
He distrusted her affection and what loneliness is more lonely than distrust ? CHAPTER XLV . 
It is the humor of many heads to extol the days of their forefathers , and declaim against the wickedness of times present . 
Horace , therefore , Juvenal , and Persius , were no prophets , although their lines did seem to indigitate and point at our times . 
SIR THOMAS BROWNE Pseudodoxia Epidemica . 
That opposition to the New Fever Hospital which Lydgate had sketched to Dorothea was , like other oppositions , to be viewed in many different lights . 
He regarded it as a mixture of jealousy and dunderheaded prejudice . 
These might be called the ministerial views . 
But oppositions have the illimitable range of objections at command , which need never stop short at the boundary of knowledge , but can draw forever on the vasts of ignorance . 
Minchin and the trenchant assertion of Mrs. Dollop , the landlady of the Tankard in Slaughter Lane . 
Mrs. Dollop became more and more convinced by her own asseveration , that Dr . 
But these were people of minor importance . 
It is in that way that hard working medical men may come to be almost as mischievous as quacks , said Lydgate , rather thoughtlessly . 
To get their own bread they must overdose the king's lieges and that's a bad sort of treason , Mr. Mawmsey undermines the constitution in a fatal way . 
It was Mr. Mawmsey's friendly jocoseness in questioning him which had set the tone of Lydgate's reply . 
But let the wise be warned against too great readiness at explanation it multiplies the sources of mistake , lengthening the sum for reckoners sure to go wrong . 
But in truth his views were perturbed . 
For years he had been paying bills with strictly made items , so that for every half crown and eighteen pence he was certain something measurable had been delivered . 
He had done this with satisfaction , including it among his responsibilities as a husband and father , and regarding a longer bill than usual as a dignity worth mentioning . 
Does this Mr. Lydgate mean to say there is no use in taking medicine ? said Mrs. Mawmsey , who was slightly given to drawling . 
I should like him to tell me how I could bear up at Fair time , if I didn't take strengthening medicine for a month beforehand . 
I wonder , Mr. Mawmsey , with your experience , you could have patience to listen . 
I should have told him at once that I knew a little better than that . 
No , no , no , said Mr. Mawmsey I was not going to tell him my opinion . 
Hear everything and judge for yourself is my motto . 
But he didn't know who he was talking to . 
I was not to be turned on HIS finger . 
People often pretend to tell me things , when they might as well say , Mawmsey , you're a fool . 
But I smile at it I humor everybody's weak place . 
If physic had done harm to self and family , I should have found it out by this time . 
The next day Mr. Gambit was told that Lydgate went about saying physic was of no use . 
Indeed ! said he , lifting his eyebrows with cautious surprise . 
How will he cure his patients , then ? That is what I say , returned Mrs. Mawmsey , who habitually gave weight to her speech by loading her pronouns . 
So he replied , humorously Well , Lydgate is a good looking young fellow , you know . 
Not one that I would employ , said Mrs. Mawmsey . 
OTHERS may do as they please . 
Mr. Gambit , however , had a satisfactory practice , much pervaded by the smells of retail trading which suggested the reduction of cash payments to a balance . 
And he did not think it worth his while to show Lydgate up until he knew how . 
Other medical men felt themselves more capable . 
Mr. Toller shared the highest practice in the town and belonged to an old Middlemarch family there were Tollers in the law and everything else above the line of retail trade . 
He was a great favorite in his own circle , and whatever he implied to any one's disadvantage told doubly from his careless ironical tone . 
I'm fond of little Dibbitts I'm glad he's in luck . 
I see your meaning , Toller , said Mr. Hackbutt , and I am entirely of your opinion . 
I shall take an opportunity of expressing myself to that effect . 
A medical man should be responsible for the quality of the drugs consumed by his patients . 
That is the rationale of the system of charging which has hitherto obtained and nothing is more offensive than this ostentation of reform , where there is no real amelioration . 
Ostentation , Hackbutt ? said Mr. Toller , ironically . 
A man can't very well be ostentatious of what nobody believes in . 
Ah , to be sure one of your damned new versions of old humbug , said Mr. Hawley , passing the decanter to Mr. Wrench . 
Mr. Wrench , generally abstemious , often drank wine rather freely at a party , getting the more irritable in consequence . 
As to humbug , Hawley , he said , that's a word easy to fling about . 
I throw back the imputation with scorn . 
I say , the most ungentlemanly trick a man can be guilty of is to come among the members of his profession with innovations which are a libel on their time honored procedure . 
That is my opinion , and I am ready to maintain it against any one who contradicts me . 
Mr. Wrench's voice had become exceedingly sharp . 
I can't oblige you there , Wrench , said Mr. Hawley , thrusting his hands into his trouser pockets . 
My dear fellow , said Mr. Toller , striking in pacifically ! and looking at Mr. Wrench , the physicians have their toes trodden on more than we have . 
If you come to dignity it is a question for Minchin and Sprague . 
Does medical jurisprudence provide nothing against these infringements ? said Mr. Hackbutt , with a disinterested desire to offer his lights . 
How does the law stand , eh , Hawley ? Nothing to be done there , said Mr. Hawley . 
I looked into it for Sprague . 
You'd only break your nose against a damned judge's decision . 
Pooh ! no need of law , said Mr. Toller . 
So far as practice is concerned the attempt is an absurdity . 
No patient will like it certainly not Peacock's , who have been used to depletion . 
Mr. Toller's prediction was partly verified . 
This co operative measure was not to be mentioned to Lydgate , and Mr. Powderell himself had no certain reliance on it , only hoping that it might be attended with a blessing . 
But in this doubtful stage of Lydgate's introduction he was helped by what we mortals rashly call good fortune . 
Mrs. Larcher having just become charitably concerned about alarming symptoms in her charwoman , when Dr . 
Nancy , calling at home on her way to the Infirmary , allowed the stay maker and his wife , in whose attic she lodged , to read Dr . 
Meanwhile when Nancy presented herself at the Infirmary , it happened to be one of Lydgate's days there . 
After questioning and examining her , Lydgate said to the house surgeon in an undertone , It's not tumor it's cramp . 
But the case continued to be described as one of tumor in Churchyard Lane and other streets nay , by Mrs. Larcher also for when Lydgate's remarkable cure was mentioned to Dr . 
despising Minchin , such rectification of misjudgments often happening among men of equal qualifications . 
And to have entered into the nature of diseases would only have added to his breaches of medical propriety . 
Thus he had to wince under a promise of success given by that ignorant praise which misses every valid quality . 
The eloquent auctioneer was seized with pneumonia , and having been a patient of Mr. Peacock's , sent for Lydgate , whom he had expressed his intention to patronize . 
Mr. Trumbull acquiesced at once , and entered strongly into the view that an illness of his was no ordinary occasion for medical science . 
For Lydgate was acute enough to indulge him with a little technical talk . 
The auctioneer was not an ungenerous man , and liked to give others their due , feeling that he could afford it . 
This had happened before the affair of Fred Vincy's illness had given to Mr. Wrench's enmity towards Lydgate more definite personal ground . 
Meanwhile he framed his plan of management . 
There was an immediate refusal on the part of every medical man in the town to become a visitor at the Fever Hospital . 
I must work the harder , that's all , and I have given up my post at the Infirmary . 
The plan will flourish in spite of them , and then they'll be glad to come in . 
Things can't last as they are there must be all sorts of reform soon , and then young fellows may be glad to come and study here . 
Lydgate was in high spirits . 
I shall not flinch , you may depend upon it , Mr. Lydgate , said Mr. Bulstrode . 
While I see you carrying out high intentions with vigor , you shall have my unfailing support . 
And I have humble confidence that the blessing which has hitherto attended my efforts against the spirit of evil in this town will not be withdrawn . 
Suitable directors to assist me I have no doubt of securing . 
Mr. Brooke of Tipton has already given me his concurrence , and a pledge to contribute yearly he has not specified the sum probably not a great one . 
But he will be a useful member of the board . 
A useful member was perhaps to be defined as one who would originate nothing , and always vote with Mr. Bulstrode . 
The medical aversion to Lydgate was hardly disguised now . 
Minchin said that he disliked Lydgate's knowledge , or his disposition to improve treatment what they disliked was his arrogance , which nobody felt to be altogether deniable . 
They implied that he was insolent , pretentious , and given to that reckless innovation for the sake of noise and show which was the essence of the charlatan . 
The word charlatan once thrown on the air could not be let drop . 
In those days the world was agitated about the wondrous doings of Mr. St . 
John Long , noblemen and gentlemen attesting his extraction of a fluid like mercury from the temples of a patient . 
Yes , indeed , I can imagine , said Mrs. Taft , keeping the number of thirty stitches carefully in her mind all the while there are so many of that sort . 
I remember Mr. Cheshire , with his irons , trying to make people straight when the Almighty had made them crooked . 
No , no , said Mr. Toller , Cheshire was all right all fair and above board . 
The other day he was pretending to tap a man's brain and get quicksilver out of it . 
Good gracious ! what dreadful trifling with people's constitutions ! said Mrs. Taft . 
Especially it was to be expected , as the landlady of the Tankard had said , that he would recklessly cut up their dead bodies . 
Affairs were in this stage when Lydgate opened the subject of the Hospital to Dorothea . 
We see that be was bearing enmity and silly misconception with much spirit , aware that they were partly created by his good share of success . 
They will not drive me away , he said , talking confidentially in Mr. Farebrother's study . 
I have got a good opportunity here , for the ends I care most about and I am pretty sure to get income enough for our wants . 
By and by I shall go on as quietly as possible I have no seductions now away from home and work . 
And I am more and more convinced that it will be possible to demonstrate the homogeneous origin of all the tissues . 
Raspail and others are on the same track , and I have been losing time . 
How am I to be prudent ? said Lydgate , I just do what comes before me to do . 
I can't help people's ignorance and spite , any more than Vesalius could . 
It isn't possible to square one's conduct to silly conclusions which nobody can foresee . 
Quite true I didn't mean that . 
I meant only two things . 
One is , keep yourself as separable from Bulstrode as you can of course , you can go on doing good work of your own by his help but don't get tied . 
Bulstrode is nothing to me , said Lydgate , carelessly , except on public grounds . 
As to getting very closely united to him , I am not fond enough of him for that . 
But what was the other thing you meant ? said Lydgate , who was nursing his leg as comfortably as possible , and feeling in no great need of advice . 
Take care experto crede take care not to get hampered about money matters . 
I know , by a word you let fall one day , that you don't like my playing at cards so much for money . 
You are right enough there . 
But try and keep clear of wanting small sums that you haven't got . 
I am perhaps talking rather superfluously but a man likes to assume superiority over himself , by holding up his bad example and sermonizing on it . 
Lydgate took Mr. Farebrother's hints very cordially , though he would hardly have borne them from another man . 
The furniture for which he owed would not want renewing nor even the stock of wine for a long while . 
Many thoughts cheered him at that time and justly . 
that they fell in with his mood as if they had been melodious sea breezes . 
There was something very fine in Lydgate's look just then , and any one might have been encouraged to bet on his achievement . 
Presently Rosamond left the piano and seated herself on a chair close to the sofa and opposite her husband's face . 
Is that enough music for you , my lord ? she said , folding her hands before her and putting on a little air of meekness . 
Yes , dear , if you are tired , said Lydgate , gently , turning his eyes and resting them on her , but not otherwise moving . 
Rosamond's presence at that moment was perhaps no more than a spoonful brought to the lake , and her woman's instinct in this matter was not dull . 
What is absorbing you ? she said , leaning forward and bringing her face nearer to his . 
He moved his hands and placed them gently behind her shoulders . 
I am thinking of a great fellow , who was about as old as I am three hundred years ago , and had already begun a new era in anatomy . 
I can't guess , said Rosamond , shaking her head . 
We used to play at guessing historical characters at Mrs. Lemon's , but not anatomists . 
And the only way he could get to know anatomy as he did , was by going to snatch bodies at night , from graveyards and places of execution . 
Oh ! said Rosamond , with a look of disgust on her pretty face , I am very glad you are not Vesalius . 
I should have thought he might find some less horrible way than that . 
No , he couldn't , said Lydgate , going on too earnestly to take much notice of her answer . 
You know how angry you told me the people were about Mrs. Goby . 
You have enemies enough already . 
So had Vesalius , Rosy . 
They called him a liar and a poisonous monster . 
But the facts of the human frame were on his side and so he got the better of them . 
And what happened to him afterwards ? said Rosamond , with some interest . 
Oh , he had a good deal of fighting to the last . 
And they did exasperate him enough at one time to make him burn a good deal of his work . 
Then he got shipwrecked just as he was coming from Jerusalem to take a great chair at Padua . 
There was a moment's pause before Rosamond said , Do you know , Tertius , I often wish you had not been a medical man . 
Nay , Rosy , don't say that , said Lydgate , drawing her closer to him . 
That is like saying you wish you had married another man . 
Not at all you are clever enough for anything you might easily have been something else . 
And your cousins at Quallingham all think that you have sunk below them in your choice of a profession . 
The cousins at Quallingham may go to the devil ! said Lydgate , with scorn . 
It was like their impudence if they said anything of the sort to you . 
Still , said Rosamond , I do NOT think it is a nice profession , dear . 
We know that she had much quiet perseverance in her opinion . 
It is the grandest profession in the world , Rosamond , said Lydgate , gravely . 
Don't say that again , dear , it pains me . 
No , no , not so bad as that , said Lydgate , giving up remonstrance and petting her resignedly . 
Pues no podemos haber aquello que queremos , queramos aquello que podremos . 
Since we cannot get what we like , let us like what we can get . 
And there were some who already predicted this event , declaring that a Reform Bill would never be carried by the actual Parliament . 
This was what Will Ladislaw dwelt on to Mr. Brooke as a reason for congratulation that he had not yet tried his strength at the hustings . 
Things will grow and ripen as if it were a comet year , said Will . 
The public temper will soon get to a cometary heat , now the question of Reform has set in . 
There is likely to be another election before long , and by that time Middlemarch will have got more ideas into its head . 
What we have to work at now is the Pioneer' and political meetings . 
Quite right , Ladislaw we shall make a new thing of opinion here , said Mr. Brooke . 
Only I want to keep myself independent about Reform , you know I don't want to go too far . 
I want to take up . 
Wilberforce's and Romilly's line , you know , and work at Negro Emancipation , Criminal Law that kind of thing . 
But of course I should support Grey . 
If you go in for the principle of Reform , you must be prepared to take what the situation offers , said Will . 
If everybody pulled for his own bit against everybody else , the whole question would go to tatters . 
Yes , yes , I agree with you I quite take that point of view . 
I should put it in that light . 
I should support Grey , you know . 
But I don't want to change the balance of the constitution , and I don't think Grey would . 
But that is what the country wants , said Will . 
Else there would be no meaning in political unions or any other movement that knows what it's about . 
It wants to have a House of Commons which is not weighted with nominees of the landed class , but with representatives of the other interests . 
And as to contending for a reform short of that , it is like asking for a bit of an avalanche which has already begun to thunder . 
That is fine , Ladislaw that is the way to put it . 
Write that down , now . 
We must begin to get documents about the feeling of the country , as well as the machine breaking and general distress . 
As to documents , said Will , a two inch card will hold plenty . 
A few rows of figures are enough to deduce misery from , and a few more will show the rate at which the political determination of the people is growing . 
Good draw that out a little more at length , Ladislaw . 
That is an idea , now write it out in the Pioneer . 
Put the figures and deduce the misery , you know and put the other figures and deduce and so on . 
You have a way of putting things . 
Burke , now when I think of Burke , I can't help wishing somebody had a pocket borough to give you , Ladislaw . 
You'd never get elected , you know . 
And we shall always want talent in the House reform as we will , we shall always want talent . 
That avalanche and the thunder , now , was really a little like Burke . 
I want that sort of thing not ideas , you know , but a way of putting them . 
Pocket boroughs would be a fine thing , said Ladislaw , if they were always in the right pocket , and there were always a Burke at hand . 
Our sense of duty must often wait for some work which shall take the place of dilettanteism and make us feel that the quality of our action is not a matter of indifference . 
Ladislaw had now accepted his bit of work , though it was not that indeterminate loftiest thing which he had once dreamed of as alone worthy of continuous effort . 
His nature warmed easily in the presence of subjects which were visibly mixed with life and action , and the easily stirred rebellion in him helped the glow of public spirit . 
Shift the pegs a little , he said to himself , and Mr. Brooke might be in the Cabinet , while I was Under Secretary . 
That is the common order of things the little waves make the large ones and are of the same pattern . 
I don't care for prestige or high pay . 
But it is one thing to like defiance , and another thing to like its consequences . 
Meanwhile , the town opinion about the new editor of the Pioneer was tending to confirm Mr. Casaubon's view . 
Brooke has taken him up , said Mr. Hawley , because that is what no man in his senses could have expected . 
Casaubon has devilish good reasons , you may be sure , for turning the cold shoulder on a young fellow whose bringing up he paid for . 
Just like Brooke one of those fellows who would praise a cat to sell a horse . 
That was a rattling article yesterday , Keck , said Dr . 
Sprague , with sarcastic intentions . 
But what is an energumen ? Oh , a term that came up in the French Revolution , said Keck . 
This dangerous aspect of Ladislaw was strangely contrasted with other habits which became matter of remark . 
We know that in Rome he was given to ramble about among the poor people , and the taste did not quit him in Middlemarch . 
But Will's articles and speeches naturally recommended him in families which the new strictness of party division had marked off on the side of Reform . 
But the house where he visited oftenest and lay most on the rug was Lydgate's . 
The two men were not at all alike , but they agreed none the worse . 
Lydgate was abrupt but not irritable , taking little notice of megrims in healthy people and Ladislaw did not usually throw away his susceptibilities on those who took no notice of them . 
No matter those who read the Pioneer' don't read the Trumpet , said Will , swallowing his tea and walking about . 
There's no harm in trying . 
It's good to have resident members . 
Why ? said Lydgate , who was much given to use that inconvenient word in a curt tone . 
They represent the local stupidity better , said Will , laughing , and shaking his curls and they are kept on their best behavior in the neighborhood . 
Brooke is not a bad fellow , but he has done some good things on his estate that he never would have done but for this Parliamentary bite . 
He's not fitted to be a public man , said Lydgate , with contemptuous decision . 
He would disappoint everybody who counted on him I can see that at the Hospital . 
Only , there Bulstrode holds the reins and drives him . 
That depends on how you fix your standard of public men , said Will . 
He's good enough for the occasion when the people have made up their mind as they are making it up now , they don't want a man they only want a vote . 
You go against rottenness , and there is nothing more thoroughly rotten than making people believe that society can be cured by a political hocus pocus . 
That's very fine , my dear fellow . 
But your cure must begin somewhere , and put it that a thousand things which debase a population can never be reformed without this particular reform to begin with . 
That's my text which side is injured ? I support the man who supports their claims not the virtuous upholder of the wrong . 
That general talk about a particular case is mere question begging , Ladislaw . 
When I say , I go in for the dose that cures , it doesn't follow that I go in for opium in a given case of gout . 
I am not begging the question we are upon whether we are to try for nothing till we find immaculate men to work with . 
He is nothing to me otherwise I would not cry him up on any personal ground I would keep clear of that . 
Do you mean that I cry up Brooke on any personal ground ? said Will Ladislaw , nettled , and turning sharp round . 
For the first time he felt offended with Lydgate not the less so , perhaps , because he would have declined any close inquiry into the growth of his relation to Mr. Brooke . 
Not at all , said Lydgate , I was simply explaining my own action . 
Then , why don't you extend your liberality to others ? said Will , still nettled . 
My personal independence is as important to me as yours is to you . 
You have no more reason to imagine that I have personal expectations from Brooke , than I have to imagine that you have personal expectations from Bulstrode . 
Motives are points of honor , I suppose nobody can prove them . 
But as to money and place in the world . 
Will ended , tossing back his head , I think it is pretty clear that I am not determined by considerations of that sort . 
You quite mistake me , Ladislaw , said Lydgate , surprised . 
He had been preoccupied with his own vindication , and had been blind to what Ladislaw might infer on his own account . 
I beg your pardon for unintentionally annoying you . 
In fact , I should rather attribute to you a romantic disregard of your own worldly interests . 
On the political question , I referred simply to intellectual bias . 
How very unpleasant you both are this evening ! said Rosamond . 
I cannot conceive why money should have been referred to . 
Polities and Medicine are sufficiently disagreeable to quarrel upon . 
You can both of you go on quarrelling with all the world and with each other on those two topics . 
Rosamond looked mildly neutral as she said this , rising to ring the bell , and then crossing to her work table . 
Poor Rosy ! said Lydgate , putting out his hand to her as she was passing him . 
Disputation is not amusing to cherubs . 
Ask Ladislaw to sing with you . 
When Will was gone Rosamond said to her husband , What put you out of temper this evening , Tertius ? Me ? It was Ladislaw who was out of temper . 
He is like a bit of tinder . 
But I mean , before that . 
Something had vexed you before you came in , you looked cross . 
And that made you begin to dispute with Mr. Ladislaw . 
You hurt me very much when you look so , Tertius . 
Do I ? Then I am a brute , said Lydgate , caressing her penitently . 
What vexed you ? Oh , outdoor things business . 
It was really a letter insisting on the payment of a bill for furniture . 
But Rosamond was expecting to have a baby , and Lydgate wished to save her from any perturbation . 
Was never true love loved in vain , For truest love is highest gain . 
No art can make it it must spring Where elements are fostering . 
So in heaven's spot and hour Springs the little native flower , Downward root and upward eye , Shapen by the earth and sky . 
It happened to be on a Saturday evening that Will Ladislaw had that little discussion with Lydgate . 
The way in which he made a sort of happiness for himself out of his feeling for Dorothea was an example of this . 
And there were yet other reasons . 
But this result was questionable . 
And what else could he do for Dorothea ? What was his devotion worth to her ? It was impossible to tell . 
He would not go out of her reach . 
He saw no creature among her friends to whom he could believe that she spoke with the same simple confidence as to him . 
She had once said that she would like him to stay and stay he would , whatever fire breathing dragons might hiss around her . 
This had always been the conclusion of Will's hesitations . 
But he was not without contradictoriness and rebellion even towards his own resolve . 
Whereupon , not being able to contradict these unpleasant facts , he contradicted his own strongest bias and said , I am a fool . 
Nonsense ! argued Inclination , it would be too monstrous for him to hinder me from going out to a pretty country church on a spring morning . 
And Dorothea will be glad . 
It will be clear to Mr. Casaubon that you have come either to annoy him or to see Dorothea . 
I have always liked the quaintness of the church and congregation besides , I know the Tuckers I shall go into their pew . 
Everything seemed to know that it was Sunday , and to approve of his going to Lowick Church . 
He was experimenting in tunes to suit some words of his own , sometimes trying a ready made melody , sometimes improvising . 
The bells were still ringing when he got to Lowick , and he went into the curate's pew before any one else arrived there . 
But he was still left alone in it when the congregation had assembled . 
Even in Lowick was at peace , not more agitated by Reform than by the solemn tenor of the Sunday sermon . 
Dorothea did at last appear on this quaint background , walking up the short aisle in her white beaver bonnet and gray cloak the same she had worn in the Vatican . 
To his own surprise Will felt suddenly uncomfortable , and dared not look at her after they had bowed to each other . 
Two minutes later , when Mr. Casaubon came out of the vestry , and , entering the pew , seated himself in face of Dorothea , Will felt his paralysis more complete . 
He could look nowhere except at the choir in the little gallery over the vestry door Dorothea was perhaps pained , and he had made a wretched blunder . 
It was no longer amusing to vex Mr. Casaubon , who had the advantage probably of watching him and seeing that he dared not turn his head . 
Still he called himself stupid now for not foreseeing that it would be impossible for him to look towards Dorothea nay , that she might feel his coming an impertinence . 
Mr. Casaubon did not preach that morning , and there was no change in Will's situation until the blessing had been pronounced and every one rose . 
It was the fashion at Lowick for the betters to go out first . 
With a sudden determination to break the spell that was upon him , Will looked straight at Mr. Casaubon . 
But that gentleman's eyes were on the button of the pew door , which he opened , allowing Dorothea to pass , and following her immediately without raising his eyelids . 
Will's glance had caught Dorothea's as she turned out of the pew , and again she bowed , but this time with a look of agitation , as if she were repressing tears . 
Will walked out after them , but they went on towards the little gate leading out of the churchyard into the shrubbery , never looking round . 
It was impossible for him to follow them , and he could only walk back sadly at mid day along the same road which he had trodden hopefully in the morning . 
The lights were all changed for him both without and within . 
Will's coming seemed to her quite excusable , nay , she thought it an amiable movement in him towards a reconciliation which she herself had been constantly wishing for . 
He had probably imagined , as she had , that if Mr. Casaubon and he could meet easily , they would shake hands and friendly intercourse might return . 
But now Dorothea felt quite robbed of that hope . 
Will was banished further than ever , for Mr. Casaubon must have been newly embittered by this thrusting upon him of a presence which he refused to recognize . 
For her own part she felt that she could never again introduce that subject . 
But to day opened one after another , and could read none of them . 
It was another or rather a fuller sort of companionship that poor Dorothea was hungering for , and the hunger had grown from the perpetual effort demanded by her married life . 
She was always trying to be what her husband wished , and never able to repose on his delight in what she was . 
This afternoon the helplessness was more wretchedly benumbing than ever she longed for objects who could be dear to her , and to whom she could be dear . 
Today she had stood at the door of the tomb and seen Will Ladislaw receding into the distant world of warm activity and fellowship turning his face towards her as he went . 
Books were of no use . 
Thinking was of no use . 
It was Sunday , and she could not have the carriage to go to Celia , who had lately had a baby . 
There was no refuge now from spiritual emptiness and discontent , and Dorothea had to bear her bad mood , as she would have borne a headache . 
He seemed to have revived , and to be thinking intently . 
Of late he had begun to feel that these qualities were a peculiar possession for himself , and he wanted to engross them . 
The reading in the night did come . 
He had lit two candles , expecting that Dorothea would awake , but not liking to rouse her by more direct means . 
Are you ill , Edward ? she said , rising immediately . 
I felt some uneasiness in a reclining posture . 
I will sit here for a time . 
I am wakeful my mind is remarkably lucid . 
I fear that the excitement may be too great for you , said Dorothea , remembering Lydgate's cautions . 
No , I am not conscious of undue excitement . 
Dorothea dared not insist , and she read for an hour or more on the same plan as she had done in the evening , but getting over the pages with more quickness . 
Dorothea was amazed to think of the bird like speed with which his mind was surveying the ground where it had been creeping for years . 
At last he said Close the book now , my dear . 
We will resume our work to morrow . 
I have deferred it too long , and would gladly see it completed . 
You have perceived that distinctly , Dorothea ? Yes , said Dorothea , rather tremulously . 
She felt sick at heart . 
And now I think that I can take some repose , said Mr. Casaubon . 
He laid down again and begged her to put out the lights . 
What is it ? said Dorothea , with dread in her mind . 
Dorothea was not taken by surprise many incidents had been leading her to the conjecture of some intention on her husband's part which might make a new yoke for her . 
She did not answer immediately . 
You refuse ? said Mr. Casaubon , with more edge in his tone . 
Whatever affection prompted I would do without promising . 
But you would use your own judgment I ask you to obey mine you refuse . 
No , dear , no ! said Dorothea , beseechingly , crushed by opposing fears . 
You cannot then confide in the nature of my wishes ? Grant me till to morrow , said Dorothea , beseechingly . 
Till to morrow then , said Mr. Casaubon . 
Soon she could hear that he was sleeping , but there was no more sleep for her . 
She had no presentiment that the power which her husband wished to establish over her future action had relation to anything else than his work . 
The poor child had become altogether unbelieving as to the trustworthiness of that Key which had made the ambition and the labor of her husband's life . 
If he lived as Lydgate had said he might , for fifteen years or more , her life would certainly be spent in helping him and obeying him . 
Still , there was a deep difference between that devotion to the living and that indefinite promise of devotion to the dead . 
While he lived , he could claim nothing that she would not still be free to remonstrate against , and even to refuse . 
For four hours Dorothea lay in this conflict , till she felt ill and bewildered , unable to resolve , praying mutely . 
Helpless as a child which has sobbed and sought too long , she fell into a late morning sleep , and when she waked Mr. Casaubon was already up . 
Tantripp told her that he had read prayers , breakfasted , and was in the library . 
I never saw you look so pale , madam , said Tantripp , a solid figured woman who had been with the sisters at Lausanne . 
Was I ever high colored , Tantripp ? said Dorothea , smiling faintly . 
Well , not to say high colored , but with a bloom like a Chiny rose . 
But always smelling those leather books , what can be expected ? Do rest a little this morning , madam . 
Let me say you are ill and not able to go into that close library . 
Oh no , no ! let me make haste , said Dorothea . 
Mr. Casaubon wants me particularly . 
When she went down she felt sure that she should promise to fulfil his wishes but that would be later in the day not yet . 
As Dorothea entered the library , Mr. Casaubon turned round from the table where he had been placing some books , and said I was waiting for your appearance , my dear . 
I had hoped to set to work at once this morning , but I find myself under some indisposition , probably from too much excitement yesterday . 
I am going now to take a turn in the shrubbery , since the air is milder . 
I am glad to hear that , said Dorothea . 
Your mind , I feared , was too active last night . 
I would fain have it set at rest on the point I last spoke of , Dorothea . 
You can now , I hope , give me an answer . 
May I come out to you in the garden presently ? said Dorothea , winning a little breathing space in that way . 
I shall be in the Yew tree Walk for the next half hour , said Mr. Casaubon , and then he left her . 
Dorothea , feeling very weary , rang and asked Tantripp to bring her some wraps . 
She sat still and let Tantripp put on her bonnet and shawl , a passivity which was unusual with her , for she liked to wait on herself . 
This was too much for Dorothea's highly strung feeling , and she burst into tears , sobbing against Tantripp's arm . 
But soon she checked herself , dried her eyes , and went out at the glass door into the shrubbery . 
I wish every book in that library was built into a caticom for your master , said Tantripp to Pratt , the butler , finding him in the breakfast room . 
She had been at Rome , and visited the antiquities , as we know and she always declined to call Mr. Casaubon anything but your master , when speaking to the other servants . 
He liked his master very well , but he liked Tantripp better . 
When Dorothea was out on the gravel walks , she lingered among the nearer clumps of trees , hesitating , as she had done once before , though from a different cause . 
Neither law nor the world's opinion compelled her to this only her husband's nature and her own compassion , only the ideal and not the real yoke of marriage . 
She saw clearly enough the whole situation , yet she was fettered she could not smite the stricken soul that entreated hers . 
If that were weakness , Dorothea was weak . 
But the half hour was passing , and she must not delay longer . 
It occurred to her that he might be resting in the summer house , towards which the path diverged a little . 
Turning the angle , she could see him seated on the bench , close to a stone table . 
His arms were resting on the table , and his brow was bowed down on them , the blue cloak being dragged forward and screening his face on each side . 
He exhausted himself last night , Dorothea said to herself , thinking at first that he was asleep , and that the summer house was too damp a place to rest in . 
She went into the summerhouse and said , I am come , Edward I am ready . 
He took no notice , and she thought that he must be fast asleep . 
I am come to answer . 
But Dorothea never gave her answer . 
Later in the day , Lydgate was seated by her bedside , and she was talking deliriously , thinking aloud , and recalling what had gone through her mind the night before . 
Tell him I shall go to him soon I am ready to promise . 
Only , thinking about it was so dreadful it has made me ill . 
I shall soon be better . 
But the silence in her husband's ear was never more to be broken . 
He was standing on the hearth rug in the library at Lowick Grange , and speaking to Mr. Brooke . 
It was the day after Mr. Casaubon had been buried , and Dorothea was not yet able to leave her room . 
That would be difficult , you know , Chettam , as she is an executrix , and she likes to go into these things property , land , that kind of thing . 
And she was twenty one last December , you know . 
Until Dorothea is well , all business must be kept from her , and as soon as she is able to be moved she must come to us . 
Being with Celia and the baby will be the best thing in the world for her , and will pass away the time . 
And meanwhile you must get rid of Ladislaw you must send him out of the country . 
Here Sir James's look of disgust returned in all its intensity . 
Mr. Brooke put his hands behind him , walked to the window and straightened his back with a little shake before he replied . 
That is easily said , Chettam , easily said , you know . 
Yes , but I can't dismiss him in an instant without assigning reasons , my dear Chettam . 
Ladislaw has been invaluable , most satisfactory . 
I consider that I have done this part of the country a service by bringing him by bringing him , you know . 
Mr. Brooke ended with a nod , turning round to give it . 
It's a pity this part of the country didn't do without him , that's all I have to say about it . 
At any rate , as Dorothea's brother in law , I feel warranted in objecting strongly to his being kept here by any action on the part of her friends . 
You admit , I hope , that I have a right to speak about what concerns the dignity of my wife's sister ? Sir James was getting warm . 
Of course , my dear Chettam , of course . 
But you and I have different ideas different Not about this action of Casaubon's , I should hope , interrupted Sir James . 
I say that he has most unfairly compromised Dorothea . 
I saw the letters between them , you know . 
Poor Casaubon was a little buried in books he didn't know the world . 
It's all very well for Ladislaw to put that color on it , said Sir James . 
My dear Chettam , it won't lead to anything , you know , said Mr. Brooke , seating himself and sticking on his eye glass again . 
It's all of a piece with Casaubon's oddity . 
This paper , now , Synoptical Tabulation' and so on , for the use of Mrs. Casaubon , it was locked up in the desk with the will . 
I suppose he meant Dorothea to publish his researches , eh ? and she'll do it , you know she has gone into his studies uncommonly . 
My dear sir , said Sir James , impatiently , that is neither here nor there . 
The question is , whether you don't see with me the propriety of sending young Ladislaw away ? Well , no , not the urgency of the thing . 
By and by , perhaps , it may come round . 
As to gossip , you know , sending him away won't hinder gossip . 
Good God ! said Sir James , with as much passion as he ever showed , let us get him a post let us spend money on him . 
If he could go in the suite of some Colonial Governor ! Grampus might take him and I could write to Fulke about it . 
But Ladislaw won't be shipped off like a head of cattle , my dear fellow Ladislaw has his ideas . 
It's my opinion that if he were to part from me to morrow , you'd only hear the more of him in the country . 
With his talent for speaking and drawing up documents , there are few men who could come up to him as an agitator an agitator , you know . 
Agitator ! said Sir James , with bitter emphasis , feeling that the syllables of this word properly repeated were a sufficient exposure of its hatefulness . 
But be reasonable , Chettam . 
As you say , she had better go to Celia as soon as possible . 
She can stay under your roof , and in the mean time things may come round quietly . 
Don't let us be firing off our guns in a hurry , you know . 
Standish will keep our counsel , and the news will be old before it's known . 
Twenty things may happen to carry off Ladislaw without my doing anything , you know . 
Then I am to conclude that you decline to do anything ? Decline , Chettam ? no I didn't say decline . 
But I really don't see what I could do . 
I am glad to hear It ! said Sir James , his irritation making him forget himself a little . 
I am sure Casaubon was not . 
Well , it would have been worse if he had made the codicil to hinder her from marrying again at all , you know . 
I don't know that , said Sir James . 
It would have been less indelicate . 
One of poor Casaubon's freaks ! That attack upset his brain a little . 
It all goes for nothing . 
She doesn't WANT to marry Ladislaw . 
But this codicil is framed so as to make everybody believe that she did . 
I don't believe anything of the sort about Dorothea , said Sir James then frowningly , but I suspect Ladislaw . 
I tell you frankly , I suspect Ladislaw . 
I couldn't take any immediate action on that ground , Chettam . 
It would seem as if we distrusted her distrusted her , you know . 
That Mr. Brooke had hit on an undeniable argument , did not tend to soothe Sir James . 
I shall do what I can , as her brother , to protect her now . 
You can't do better than get her to Freshitt as soon as possible , Chettam . 
I approve that plan altogether , said Mr. Brooke , well pleased that he had won the argument . 
Mr. Brooke sincerely believed that this end could be secured by his own return to Parliament he offered the forces of his mind honestly to the nation . 
CHAPTER L. This Loller here wol precilen us somewhat . 
Nay by my father's soule ! that schal he nat , Sayde the Schipman , here schal he not preche , We schal no gospel glosen here ne teche . 
We leven all in the gret God , quod he . 
He wolden sowen some diffcultee . 
Dorothea had been safe at Freshitt Hall nearly a week before she had asked any dangerous questions . 
After Mr. Tucker had been provided for , I never heard my husband say that he had any clergyman in his mind as a successor to himself . 
I think I ought to have the keys now and go to Lowick to examine all my husband's papers . 
There may be something that would throw light on his wishes . 
No hurry , my dear , said Mr. Brooke , quietly . 
By and by , you know , you can go , if you like . 
But I cast my eyes over things in the desks and drawers there was nothing nothing but deep subjects , you know besides the will . 
Everything can be done by and by . 
As to the living , I have had an application for interest already I should say rather good . 
Mr. Tyke has been strongly recommended to me I had something to do with getting him an appointment before . 
An apostolic man , I believe the sort of thing that would suit you , my dear . 
I should like to have fuller knowledge about him , uncle , and judge for myself , if Mr. Casaubon has not left any expression of his wishes . 
Nothing about the rectory , my dear nothing , said Mr. Brooke , rising to go away , and putting out his hand to his nieces nor about his researches , you know . 
Come , you must not think of these things yet , my dear . 
By and by , you know . 
I am quite well now , uncle I wish to exert myself . 
Well , well , we shall see . 
But I must run away now I have no end of work now it's a crisis a political crisis , you know . 
Dorothea sank back in her chair when her uncle had left the room , and cast her eyes down meditatively on her crossed hands . 
Look , Dodo ! look at him ! Did you ever see anything like that ? said Celia , in her comfortable staccato . 
What , Kitty ? said Dorothea , lifting her eyes rather absently . 
What ? why , his upper lip see how he is drawing it down , as if he meant to make a face . 
Isn't it wonderful ! He may have his little thoughts . 
I wish nurse were here . 
A large tear which had been for some time gathering , rolled down Dorothea's cheek as she looked up and tried to smile . 
Don't be sad , Dodo kiss baby . 
What are you brooding over so ? I am sure you did everything , and a great deal too much . 
You should be happy now . 
I wonder if Sir James would drive me to Lowick . 
I want to look over everything to see if there were any words written for me . 
You are not to go till Mr. Lydgate says you may go . 
Besides , you have got a wrong notion in your head as usual , Dodo I can see that it vexes me . 
Where am I wrong , Kitty ? said Dorothea , quite meekly . 
She was almost ready now to think Celia wiser than herself , and was really wondering with some fear what her wrong notion was . 
Celia felt her advantage , and was determined to use it . 
None of them knew Dodo as well as she did , or knew how to manage her . 
Since Celia's baby was born , she had had a new sense of her mental solidity and calm wisdom . 
It seemed clear that where there was a baby , things were right enough , and that error , in general , was a mere lack of that central poising force . 
I can see what you are thinking of as well as can be , Dodo , said Celia . 
You are wanting to find out if there is anything uncomfortable for you to do now , only because Mr. Casaubon wished it . 
As if you had not been uncomfortable enough before . 
And he doesn't deserve it , and you will find that out . 
He has behaved very badly . 
James is as angry with him as can be . 
And I had better tell you , to prepare you . 
Celia , said Dorothea , entreatingly , you distress me . 
Tell me at once what you mean . 
It glanced through her mind that' Mr. Casaubon had left the property away from her which would not be so very distressing . 
But if you married Mr. Ladislaw , not anybody else , Celia went on with persevering quietude . 
Of course that is of no consequence in one way you never WOULD marry Mr. Ladislaw but that only makes it worse of Mr. Casaubon . 
The blood rushed to Dorothea's face and neck painfully . 
But Celia was administering what she thought a sobering dose of fact . 
It was taking up notions that had done Dodo's health so much harm . 
So she went on in her neutral tone , as if she had been remarking on baby's robes . 
He says it is abominable , and not like a gentleman . 
And there never was a better judge than James . 
It is as if Mr. Casaubon wanted to make people believe that you would wish to marry Mr. Ladislaw which is ridiculous . 
Only James says it was to hinder Mr. Ladislaw from wanting to marry you for your money just as if he ever would think of making you an offer . 
Dorothea by this time had turned cold again , and now threw herself back helplessly in her chair . 
Everything was changing its aspect her husband's conduct , her own duteous feeling towards him , every struggle between them and yet more , her whole relation to Will Ladislaw . 
Her world was in a state of convulsive change the only thing she could say distinctly to herself was , that she must wait and think anew . 
Then again she was conscious of another change which also made her tremulous it was a sudden strange yearning of heart towards Will Ladislaw . 
It seemed a long while she did not know how long before she heard Celia saying , That will do , nurse he will be quiet on my lap now . 
You can go to lunch , and let Garratt stay in the next room . 
I never did like him , and James never did . 
I think the corners of his mouth were dreadfully spiteful . 
And now he has behaved in this way , I am sure religion does not require you to make yourself uncomfortable about him . 
If he has been taken away , that is a mercy , and you ought to be grateful . 
Dorothea's hand was of a marble coldness . 
She wants to go to Lowick , to look over papers , said Celia . 
She ought not , ought she ? Lydgate did not speak for a few moments . 
Then he said , looking at Dorothea . 
In my opinion Mrs. Casaubon should do what would give her the most repose of mind . 
That repose will not always come from being forbidden to act . 
Thank you said Dorothea , exerting herself , I am sure that is wise . 
There are so many things which I ought to attend to . 
I shall ask you to tell me a great deal . 
I have serious things to do now . 
I have a living to give away . 
You know Mr. Tyke and all the But Dorothea's effort was too much for her she broke off and burst into sobs . 
Lydgate made her drink a dose of sal volatile . 
Let Mrs. Casaubon do as she likes , he said to Sir James , whom he asked to see before quitting the house . 
She wants perfect freedom , I think , more than any other prescription . 
His attendance on Dorothea while her brain was excited , had enabled him to form some true conclusions concerning the trials of her life . 
Lydgate's advice was all the easier for Sir James to follow when he found that Celia had already told Dorothea the unpleasant fact about the will . 
There was no help for it now no reason for any further delay in the execution of necessary business . 
And the next day Sir James complied at once with her request that he would drive her to Lowick . 
I have no wish to stay there at present , said Dorothea I could hardly bear it . 
I am much happier at Freshitt with Celia . 
I shall be able to think better about what should be done at Lowick by looking at it from a distance . 
And I should like to be at the Grange a little while with my uncle , and go about in all the old walks and among the people in the village . 
Not yet , I think . 
But no word passed between him and Dorothea about the objectionable part of the will indeed , both of them felt that the mention of it between them would be impossible . 
Why should he be compared with an Italian carrying white mice ? That word quoted from Mrs. Cadwallader seemed like a mocking travesty wrought in the dark by an impish finger . 
But the months gained on him and left his plans belated he had only had time to ask for that promise by which he sought to keep his cold grasp on Dorothea's life . 
The grasp had slipped away . 
Dorothea tried now to turn her thoughts towards immediate duties , and one of these was of a kind which others were determined to remind her of . 
Instead of telling you anything about Mr. Tyke , he said , I should like to speak of another man Mr. Farebrother , the Vicar of St . 
His living is a poor one , and gives him a stinted provision for himself and his family . 
His mother , aunt , and sister all live with him , and depend upon him . 
I believe he has never married because of them . 
I never heard such good preaching as his such plain , easy eloquence . 
He would have done to preach at St . 
Paul's Cross after old Latimer . 
His talk is just as good about all subjects original , simple , clear . 
I think him a remarkable fellow he ought to have done more than he has done . 
Why has he not done more ? said Dorothea , interested now in all who had slipped below their own intention . 
That's a hard question , said Lydgate . 
I find myself that it's uncommonly difficult to make the right thing work there are so many strings pulling at once . 
He is very fond of Natural History and various scientific matters , and he is hampered in reconciling these tastes with his position . 
He has no money to spare hardly enough to use and that has led him into card playing Middlemarch is a great place for whist . 
He does play for money , and he wins a good deal . 
He has neither venom nor doubleness in him , and those often go with a more correct outside . 
I wonder whether he suffers in his conscience because of that habit , said Dorothea I wonder whether he wishes he could leave it off . 
I have no doubt he would leave it off , if he were transplanted into plenty he would be glad of the time for other things . 
My uncle says that Mr. Tyke is spoken of as an apostolic man , said Dorothea , meditatively . 
She was wishing it were possible to restore the times of primitive zeal , and yet thinking of Mr. Farebrother with a strong desire to rescue him from his chance gotten money . 
I don't pretend to say that Farebrother is apostolic , said Lydgate . 
His position is not quite like that of the Apostles he is only a parson among parishioners whose lives he has to try and make better . 
Practically I find that what is called being apostolic now , is an impatience of everything in which the parson doesn't cut the principal figure . 
I see something of that in Mr. Tyke at the Hospital a good deal of his doctrine is a sort of pinching hard to make people uncomfortably aware of him . 
Besides , an apostolic man at Lowick ! he ought to think , as St . 
Francis did , that it is needful to preach to the birds . 
It is hard to imagine what sort of notions our farmers and laborers get from their teaching . 
I have been looking into a volume of sermons by Mr. Tyke such sermons would be of no use at Lowick I mean , about imputed righteousness and the prophecies in the Apocalypse . 
It is surely better to pardon too much , than to condemn too much . 
But I should like to see Mr. Farebrother and hear him preach . 
Do , said Lydgate I trust to the effect of that . 
He is very much beloved , but he has his enemies too there are always people who can't forgive an able man for differing from them . 
And that money winning business is really a blot . 
One of the old ladies Miss Noble , the aunt is a wonderfully quaint picture of self forgetful goodness , and Ladislaw gallants her about sometimes . 
But the best evidence about Farebrother is to see him and hear him . 
Happily Dorothea was in her private sitting room when this conversation occurred , and there was no one present to make Lydgate's innocent introduction of Ladislaw painful to her . 
As was usual with him in matters of personal gossip , Lydgate had quite forgotten Rosamond's remark that she thought Will adored Mrs. Casaubon . 
since Mr. Casaubon's death he had hardly seen Ladislaw , and he had heard no rumor to warn him that Mr. Brooke's confidential secretary was a dangerous subject with Mrs. Casaubon . 
When he was gone , his picture of Ladislaw lingered in her mind and disputed the ground with that question of the Lowick living . 
The famous dry election was at hand , in which the depths of public feeling might be measured by the low flood mark of drink . 
It is Tory ground , where I and the Pioneer' are no more welcome than a poacher and his gun . 
Until now Will had never fully seen the chasm between himself and Dorothea until now that he was come to the brink of it , and saw her on the other side . 
We are forever divided , said Will . 
I might as well be at Rome she would be no farther from me . 
But what we call our despair is often only the painful eagerness of unfed hope . 
The latter means , of course , would be preferable . 
You know there are tactics in these things , said Mr. Brooke meeting people half way tempering your ideas saying , Well now , there's something in that , and so on . 
These ten pound householders , now why ten ? Draw the line somewhere yes but why just at ten ? That's a difficult question , now , if you go into it . 
Of course it is , said Will , impatiently . 
But if you are to wait till we get a logical Bill , you must put yourself forward as a revolutionist , and then Middlemarch would not elect you , I fancy . 
As for trimming , this is not a time for trimming . 
He was accustomed to receive large orders from Mr. Brooke of Tipton but then , there were many of Pinkerton's committee whose opinions had a great weight of grocery on their side . 
As to Reform , sir , put it in a family light , he said , rattling the small silver in his pocket , and smiling affably . 
Will it support Mrs. Mawmsey , and enable her to bring up six children when I am no more ? I put the question FICTIOUSLY , knowing what must be the answer . 
Those very words have been spoken to me , sir , in the very chair where you are now sitting . 
I don't mean by your honorable self , Mr. Brooke . 
No , no , no that's narrow , you know . 
Sir , I am your humble servant , and greatly obliged , said Mr. Mawmsey , feeling that politics were clearing up a little . 
There would be some pleasure in voting for a gentleman who speaks in that honorable manner . 
Well , you know , Mr. Mawmsey , you would find it the right thing to put yourself on our side . 
This Reform will touch everybody by and by a thoroughly popular measure a sort of A , B , C , you know , that must come first before the rest can follow . 
I quite agree with you that you've got to look at the thing in a family light but public spirit , now . 
We're all one family , you know it's all one cupboard . 
But Mr. Mawmsey answered in a tone of decisive check . 
I beg your pardon , sir , but I can't afford that . 
When I give a vote I must know what I am doing I must look to what will be the effects on my till and ledger , speaking respectfully . 
But as to one family , there's debtor and creditor , I hope they're not going to reform that away else I should vote for things staying as they are . 
Few men have less need to cry for change than I have , personally speaking that is , for self and family . 
Occasionally Parliament , like the rest of our lives , even to our eating and apparel , could hardly go on if our imaginations were too active about processes . 
There were plenty of dirty handed men in the world to do dirty business and Will protested to himself that his share in bringing Mr. Brooke through would be quite innocent . 
But whether he should succeed in that mode of contributing to the majority on the right side was very doubtful to him . 
To collect documents is one mode of serving your country , and to remember the contents of a document is another . 
But here there was the difficulty of finding room , so many things having been taken in beforehand . 
Mr. Brooke himself observed that his ideas stood rather in his way when he was speaking . 
But with regard to critical occasions , it often happens that all moments seem comfortably remote until the last . 
This looks well , eh ? said Mr. Brooke as the crowd gathered . 
I shall have a good audience , at any rate . 
I like this , now this kind of public made up of one's own neighbors , you know . 
I'll take another glass of sherry , Ladislaw , he said , with an easy air , to Will , who was close behind him , and presently handed him the supposed fortifier . 
Embarking would be easy , but the vision of open sea that might come after was alarming . 
And questions , now , hinted the demon just waking up in his stomach , somebody may put questions about the schedules . 
Ladislaw , he continued , aloud , just hand me the memorandum of the schedules . 
observed in the ear next to him , This looks dangerous , by God ! Hawley has got some deeper plan than this . 
The striking points in his appearance were his buff waistcoat , short clipped blond hair , and neutral physiognomy . 
He began with some confidence . 
Gentlemen Electors of Middlemarch ! This was so much the right thing that a little pause after it seemed natural . 
I'm uncommonly glad to be here I was never so proud and happy in my life never so happy , you know . 
Ladislaw , who stood at the window behind the speaker , thought , it's all up now . 
The only chance is that , since the best thing won't always do , floundering may answer for once . 
Mr. Brooke , meanwhile , having lost other clews , fell back on himself and his qualifications always an appropriate graceful subject for a candidate . 
That is what I have done up to a certain point not as far as Peru but I've not always stayed at home I saw it wouldn't do . 
I've been in the Levant , where some of your Middlemarch goods go and then , again , in the Baltic . 
Everybody looked up at the open windows in the houses at the opposite angles of the converging streets but they were either blank , or filled by laughing listeners . 
Few things hold the perceptions more thoroughly captive than anxiety about what we have got to say . 
Blast your ideas ! we want the Bill , said a loud rough voice from the crowd below . 
Immediately the invisible Punch , who had hitherto followed Mr. Brooke , repeated , Blast your ideas ! we want the Bill . 
The laugh was louder than ever , and for the first time Mr. Brooke being himself silent , heard distinctly the mocking echo . 
The next moment he saw it dolorously bespattered with eggs . 
His spirit rose a little , and his voice too . 
No voice would have had wing enough to rise above the uproar , and Mr. Brooke , disagreeably anointed , stood his ground no longer . 
Mr. Brooke re entered the committee room , saying , as carelessly as he could , This is a little too bad , you know . 
I should have got the ear of the people by and by but they didn't give me time . 
I should have gone into the Bill by and by , you know , he added , glancing at Ladislaw . 
However , things will come all right at the nomination . 
It was Bowyer who did it , said Mr. Standish , evasively . 
I know it as well as if he had been advertised . 
He's uncommonly good at ventriloquism , and he did it uncommonly well , by God ! Hawley has been having him to dinner lately there's a fund of talent in Bowyer . 
There's not a more paltry fellow in Middlemarch than Bowyer , said Ladislaw , indignantly , but it seems as if the paltry fellows were always to turn the scale . 
But not immediately not until some kind of sign had passed between him and Dorothea . 
He could not be satisfied until she knew why , even if he were the man she would choose to marry , he would not marry her . 
Hence he must keep his post and bear with Mr. Brooke a little longer . 
But he soon had reason to suspect that Mr. Brooke had anticipated him in the wish to break up their connection . 
He himself called this a strong measure , but observed that his health was less capable of sustaining excitement than he had imagined . 
I have felt uneasy about the chest it won't do to carry that too far , he said to Ladislaw in explaining the affair . 
Poor Casaubon was a warning , you know . 
I've made some heavy advances , but I've dug a channel . 
It's rather coarse work this electioneering , eh , Ladislaw ? dare say you are tired of it . 
However , we have dug a channel with the Pioneer' put things in a track , and so on . 
A more ordinary man than you might carry it on now more ordinary , you know . 
I am ready to do so whenever you wish it . 
As to wishing , my dear Ladislaw , I have the highest opinion of your powers , you know . 
And under the circumstances , you might like to give up might find a better field . 
I think of having a run into France . 
But I'll write you any letters , you know to Althorpe and people of that kind . 
I am exceedingly obliged to you , said Ladislaw , proudly . 
Since you are going to part with the Pioneer , I need not trouble you about the steps I shall take . 
I may choose to continue here for the present . 
I shall stay as long as I like . 
I shall go of my own movements and not because they are afraid of me . 
His heart The lowliest duties on itself did lay . 
When a man gets a good berth , mother , half the deserving must come after , said the son , brimful of pleasure , and not trying to conceal it . 
But who is in love with me ? I am a seedy old fellow , said the Vicar , rising , pushing his chair away and looking down at himself . 
What do you say , mother ? You are a handsome man , Camden though not so fine a figure of a man as your father , said the old lady . 
I wish you would marry Miss Garth , brother , said Miss Winifred . 
She would make us so lively at Lowick . 
We don't want everybody , said Miss Winifred . 
You will want your whist at home when we go to Lowick , and Henrietta Noble never was a whist player . 
I shall do without whist now , mother . 
I shall be too busy for whist I shall have two parishes , said the Vicar , preferring not to discuss the virtues of that game . 
He had already said to Dorothea , I don't feel bound to give up St . 
It is protest enough against the pluralism they want to reform if I give somebody else most of the money . 
The stronger thing is not to give up power , but to use it well . 
I have thought of that , said Dorothea . 
So far as self is concerned , I think it would be easier to give up power and money than to keep them . 
It seems very unfitting that I should have this patronage , yet I felt that I ought not to let it be used by some one else instead of me . 
It is I who am bound to act so that you will not regret your power , said Mr. Farebrother . 
His was one of the natures in which conscience gets the more active when the yoke of life ceases to gall them . 
That is the well beneficed point of view , you perceive , from which difficulties are much simplified , he ended , smiling . 
The Vicar did feel then as if his share of duties would be easy . 
But Duty has a trick of behaving unexpectedly something like a heavy friend whom we have amiably asked to visit us , and who breaks his leg within our gates . 
Hardly a week later , Duty presented itself in his study under the disguise of Fred Vincy , now returned from Omnibus College with his bachelor's degree . 
I am ashamed to trouble you , Mr. Farebrother , said Fred , whose fair open face was propitiating , but you are the only friend I can consult . 
I told you everything once before , and you were so good that I can't help coming to you again . 
I don't like it , but I know it's uncommonly hard on my father to say so , after he has spent a good deal of money in educating me for it . 
Fred paused again an instant , and then repeated , and I can't see anything else to do . 
I did talk to your father about it , Fred , but I made little way with him . 
He said it was too late . 
But you have got over one bridge now what are your other difficulties ? Merely that I don't like it . 
I don't like divinity , and preaching , and feeling obliged to look serious . 
I like riding across country , and doing as other men do . 
I don't mean that I want to be a bad fellow in any way but I've no taste for the sort of thing people expect of a clergyman . 
And yet what else am I to do ? My father can't spare me any capital , else I might go into farming . 
And he has no room for me in his trade . 
And of course I can't begin to study for law or physic now , when my father wants me to earn something . 
It's all very well to say I'm wrong to go into the Church but those who say so might as well tell me to go into the backwoods . 
Have you any difficulties about doctrines about the Articles ? he said , trying hard to think of the question simply for Fred's sake . 
No I suppose the Articles are right . 
I am not prepared with any arguments to disprove them , and much better , cleverer fellows than I am go in for them entirely . 
I think it would be rather ridiculous in me to urge scruples of that sort , as if I were a judge , said Fred , quite simply . 
I can only tell you about myself , that I have always been too lax , and have been uneasy in consequence . 
But there is another hindrance , said Fred , coloring . 
I did not tell you before , though perhaps I may have said things that made you guess it . 
There is somebody I am very fond of I have loved her ever since we were children . 
Miss Garth , I suppose ? said the Vicar , examining some labels very closely . 
I shouldn't mind anything if she would have me . 
And I know I could be a good fellow then . 
And you think she returns the feeling ? She never will say so and a good while ago she made me promise not to speak to her about it again . 
And she has set her mind especially against my being a clergyman I know that . 
But I can't give her up . 
I do think she cares about me . 
I saw Mrs. Garth last night , and she said that Mary was staying at Lowick Rectory with Miss Farebrother . 
Yes , she is very kindly helping my sister . 
Do you wish to go there ? No , I want to ask a great favor of you . 
I am ashamed to bother you in this way but Mary might listen to what you said , if you mentioned the subject to her I mean about my going into the Church . 
That is rather a delicate task , my dear Fred . 
I shall have to presuppose your attachment to her and to enter on the subject as you wish me to do , will be asking her to tell me whether she returns it . 
That is what I want her to tell you , said Fred , bluntly . 
I don't know what to do , unless I can get at her feeling . 
That is nonsense , Fred . 
Men outlive their love , but they don't outlive the consequences of their recklessness . 
Not my sort of love I have never been without loving Mary . 
If I had to give her up , it would be like beginning to live on wooden legs . 
Will she not be hurt at my intrusion ? No , I feel sure she will not . 
She respects you more than any one , and she would not put you off with fun as she does me . 
Of course I could not have told any one else , or asked any one else to speak to her , but you . 
There is no one else who could be such a friend to both of us . 
Fred paused a moment , and then said , rather complainingly , And she ought to acknowledge that I have worked in order to pass . 
She ought to believe that I would exert myself for her sake . 
There was a moment's silence before Mr. Farebrother laid down his work , and putting out his hand to Fred said Very well , my boy . 
I will do what you wish . 
That very day Mr. Farebrother went to Lowick parsonage on the nag which he had just set up . 
Decidedly I am an old stalk , he thought , the young growths are pushing me aside . 
He found Mary in the garden gathering roses and sprinkling the petals on a sheet . 
The sun was low , and tall trees sent their shadows across the grassy walks where Mary was moving without bonnet or parasol . 
She took his fore paws in one hand , and lifted up the forefinger of the other , while the dog wrinkled his brows and looked embarrassed . 
Fly , Fly , I am ashamed of you , Mary was saying in a grave contralto . 
This is not becoming in a sensible dog anybody would think you were a silly young gentleman . 
You are unmerciful to young gentlemen , Miss Garth , said the Vicar , within two yards of her . 
Mary started up and blushed . 
It always answers to reason with Fly , she said , laughingly . 
But not with young gentlemen ? Oh , with some , I suppose since some of them turn into excellent men . 
I am glad of that admission , because I want at this very moment to interest you in a young gentleman . 
Not a silly one , I hope , said Mary , beginning to pluck the roses again , and feeling her heart beat uncomfortably . 
No though perhaps wisdom is not his strong point , but rather affection and sincerity . 
However , wisdom lies more in those two qualities than people are apt to imagine . 
I hope you know by those marks what young gentleman I mean . 
Yes , I think I do , said Mary , bravely , her face getting more serious , and her hands cold it must be Fred Vincy . 
He has asked me to consult you about his going into the Church . 
I hope you will not think that I consented to take a liberty in promising to do so . 
I have kept that in mind , and I have heard something that may relieve you on that score may show you that no sin offering is demanded from you there . 
Mr. Farebrother paused a moment and looked at Mary . 
Mary's cheeks had begun to burn a little , and she was mute . 
I mean , that your action made no real difference to Fred's lot . 
So , on that score , you may feel your mind free . 
Thank you , Mr. Farebrother , said Mary , earnestly . 
I am grateful to you for remembering my feelings . 
Well , now I may go on . 
Fred , you know , has taken his degree . 
I have questioned him on the subject , and I confess I see no insuperable objection to his being a clergyman , as things go . 
He says that he could turn his mind to doing his best in that vocation , on one condition . 
If that condition were fulfilled I would do my utmost in helping Fred on . 
But I repeat that there is a condition without which all this good cannot come to pass . 
He has opened his heart to me , Miss Garth , and asked me to plead for him . 
The condition lies entirely in your feeling . 
I cannot possibly say that I will ever be his wife , Mr. Farebrother but I certainly never will be his wife if he becomes a clergyman . 
What you say is most generous and kind I don't mean for a moment to correct your judgment . 
He wishes me to report exactly what you think , said Mr. Farebrother . 
I could not love a man who is ridiculous , said Mary , not choosing to go deeper . 
His being a clergyman would be only for gentility's sake , and I think there is nothing more contemptible than such imbecile gentility . 
I used to think that of Mr. Crowse , with his empty face and neat umbrella , and mincing little speeches . 
What right have such men to represent Christianity as if it were an institution for getting up idiots genteelly as if Mary checked herself . 
She had been carried along as if she had been speaking to Fred instead of Mr. Farebrother . 
Young women are severe they don't feel the stress of action as men do , though perhaps I ought to make you an exception there . 
He would be a piece of professional affectation . 
Then the answer is quite decided . 
As a clergyman he could have no hope ? Mary shook her head . 
I mean that he ought not to put such questions until he has done something worthy , instead of saying that he could do it . 
Mary in her turn was silent , wondering not at Mr. Farebrother's manner but at his tone , which had a grave restrained emotion in it . 
When the strange idea flashed across her that his words had reference to himself , she was incredulous , and ashamed of entertaining it . 
She had only time to feel that all this was hazy and perhaps illusory but one thing was clear and determined her answer . 
Since you think it my duty , Mr. Farebrother , I will tell you that I have too strong a feeling for Fred to give him up for any one else . 
I should never be quite happy if I thought he was unhappy for the loss of me . 
I cannot imagine any new feeling coming to make that weaker . 
I should like better than anything to see him worthy of every one's respect . 
But please tell him I will not promise to marry him till then I should shame and grieve my father and mother . 
He is free to choose some one else . 
Then I have fulfilled my commission thoroughly , said Mr. Farebrother , putting out his hand to Mary , and I shall ride back to Middlemarch forthwith . 
With this prospect before him , we shall get Fred into the right niche somehow , and I hope I shall live to join your hands . 
God bless you ! Oh , please stay , and let me give you some tea , said Mary . 
No , my dear , no . 
In three minutes the Vicar was on horseback again , having gone magnanimously through a duty much harder than the renunciation of whist , or even than the writing of penitential meditations . 
That was what poor old Peter himself had expected having often , in imagination , looked up through the sods above him , and , unobstructed by . 
perspective , seen his frog faced legatee enjoying the fine old place to the perpetual surprise and disappointment of other survivors . 
But as Warren Hastings looked at gold and thought of buying Daylesford , so Joshua Rigg looked at Stone Court and thought of buying gold . 
The strength of that passion had been a power enabling him to master all the knowledge necessary to gratify it . 
For the egoism which enters into our theories does not affect their sincerity rather , the more our egoism is satisfied , the more robust is our belief . 
Affectionate Mrs. Bulstrode was particularly glad of the advantage which her husband's health was likely to get from the purchase of Stone Court . 
Mr. Bulstrode was conscious of being in a good spiritual frame and more than usually serene , under the influence of his innocent recreation . 
The memory has as many moods as the temper , and shifts its scenery like a diorama . 
And he would willingly have had that service of exhortation in prospect now . 
The texts were there still , and so was his own facility in expounding them . 
Mr. Bulstrode turned his horse and looked along the lane , but made no reply . 
The comer was our slight acquaintance Mr. Raffles , whose appearance presented no other change than such as was due to a suit of black and a crape hat band . 
Come , shake us by the hand . 
To say that Mr. Raffles' manner was rather excited would be only one mode of saying that it was evening . 
Well , it belongs to a stepson of mine , said Raffles , adjusting himself in a swaggering attitude . 
I came to see him here before . 
I'm not so surprised at seeing you , old fellow , because I picked up a letter what you may call a providential thing . 
It's uncommonly fortunate I met you , though for I don't care about seeing my stepson he's not affectionate , and his poor mother's gone now . 
To tell the truth , I came out of love to you , Nick I came to get your address , for look here ! Raffles drew a crumpled paper from his pocket . 
But Caleb was peculiar certain human tendencies which are commonly strong were almost absent from his mind and one of these was curiosity about personal affairs . 
He now spurred his horse , and saying , I wish you good evening , Mr. Bulstrode I must be getting home , set off at a trot . 
You didn't put your full address to this letter , Raffles continued . 
That was not like the first rate man of business you used to be . 
The Shrubs , they may be anywhere you live near at hand , eh ? have cut the London concern altogether perhaps turned country squire have a rural mansion to invite me to . 
Come , if you're going home , I'll walk by your side . 
Mr. Bulstrode's usual paleness had in fact taken an almost deathly hue . 
And now , as if by some hideous magic , this loud red figure had risen before him in unmanageable solidity an incorporate past which had not entered into his imagination of chastisements . 
But Mr. Bulstrode's thought was busy , and he was not a man to act or speak rashly . 
I was going home , he said , but I can defer my ride a little . 
And you can , if you please , rest here . 
Thank you , said Raffles , making a grimace . 
I don't care now about seeing my stepson . 
I'd rather go home with you . 
Your stepson , if Mr. Rigg Featherstone was he , is here no longer . 
I am master here now . 
Raffles opened wide eyes , and gave a long whistle of surprise , before he said , Well then , I've no objection . 
I've had enough walking from the coach road . 
I never was much of a walker , or rider either . 
What I like is a smart vehicle and a spirited cob . 
I was always a little heavy in the saddle . 
What a pleasant surprise it must be to you to see me , old fellow ! he continued , as they turned towards the house . 
You don't say so but you never took your luck heartily you were always thinking of improving the occasion you'd such a gift for improving your luck . 
Mr. Raffles seemed greatly to enjoy his own wit , and Swung his leg in a swaggering manner which was rather too much for his companion's judicious patience . 
If I remember rightly , Mr. Bulstrode observed , with chill anger , our acquaintance many years ago had not the sort of intimacy which you are now assuming , Mr. Raffles . 
You don't like being called Nick ? Why , I always called you Nick in my heart , and though lost to sight , to memory dear . 
By Jove ! my feelings have ripened for you like fine old cognac . 
I hope you've got some in the house now . 
Josh filled my flask well the last time . 
The wisest plan for both of us will therefore be to part as soon as possible . 
Since you say that you wished to meet me , you probably considered that you had some business to transact with me . 
You're a much better host than my stepson was but Josh owed me a bit of a grudge for marrying his mother and between you and me there was never anything but kindness . 
But he rode home with a terribly lucid vision of the difficulty there would be in arranging any result that could be permanently counted on with this man . 
It was inevitable that he should wish to get rid of John Raffles , though his reappearance could not be regarded as lying outside the divine plan . 
But even while we are talking and meditating about the earth's orbit and the solar system , what we feel and adjust our movements to is the stable earth and the changing day . 
For the pain , as well as the public estimate of disgrace , depends on the amount of previous profession . 
To men who only aim at escaping felony , nothing short of the prisoner's dock is disgrace . 
But Mr. Bulstrode had aimed at being an eminent Christian . 
It was not more than half past seven in the morning when he again reached Stone Court . 
But everything was spoiled for the owner as he walked on the gravel in front and awaited the descent of Mr. Raffles , with whom he was condemned to breakfast . 
It was not long before they were seated together in the wainscoted parlor over their tea and toast , which was as much as Raffles cared to take at that early hour . 
Certainly his manners seemed more disagreeable by the morning light . 
I presume that you have a home elsewhere and will be glad to return to it . 
Some said you had a handsome family likeness to old Nick , but that was your mother's fault , calling you Nicholas . 
Aren't you glad to see me again ? I expected an invite to stay with you at some pretty place . 
My own establishment is broken up now my wife's dead . 
I've no particular attachment to any spot I would as soon settle hereabout as anywhere . 
Never knew that a wish to go to a place was the same thing as a wish to stay . 
But I did stay a matter of ten years it didn't suit me to stay any longer . 
And I'm not going again , Nick . 
Here Mr. Raffles winked slowly as he looked at Mr. Bulstrode . 
Do you wish to be settled in any business ? What is your calling now ? Thank you , my calling is to enjoy myself as much as I can . 
I don't care about working any more . 
If I did anything it would be a little travelling in the tobacco line or something of that sort , which takes a man into agreeable company . 
But not without an independence to fall back upon . 
That's what I want I'm not so strong as I was , Nick , though I've got more color than you . 
That could be supplied to you , if you would engage to keep at a distance , said Mr. Bulstrode , perhaps with a little too much eagerness in his undertone . 
That must be as it suits my convenience , said Raffles coolly . 
I see no reason why I shouldn't make a few acquaintances hereabout . 
I'm not ashamed of myself as company for anybody . 
If you intend to rely on me in any way , Mr. Raffles , said Bulstrode , after a moment's pause , you will expect to meet my wishes . 
Ah , to be sure , said Raffles , with a mocking cordiality . 
Didn't I always do it ? Lord , you made a pretty thing out of me , and I got but little . 
But you've buried the old lady by this time , I suppose it's all one to her now . 
And you've got your fortune out of that profitable business which had such a blessing on it . 
You've taken to being a nob , buying land , being a country bashaw . 
The man would soon show himself disreputable enough to make people disbelieve him . 
But not when he tells any ugly looking truth about YOU , said discerning consciousness . 
And again it seemed no wrong to keep Raffles at a distance , but Mr. Bulstrode shrank from the direct falsehood of denying true statements . 
It was one thing to look back on forgiven sins , nay , to explain questionable conformity to lax customs , and another to enter deliberately on the necessity of falsehood . 
But since Bulstrode did not speak , Raffles ran on , by way of using time to the utmost . 
I married when I came back a nice woman in the tobacco trade very fond of me but the trade was restricted , as we say . 
She had been settled there a good many years by a friend but there was a son too much in the case . 
Josh and I never hit it off . 
However , I made the most of the position , and I've always taken my glass in good company . 
It's been all on the square with me I'm as open as the day . 
You won't take it ill of me that I didn't look you up before . 
I've got a complaint that makes me a little dilatory . 
I thought you were trading and praying away in London still , and didn't find you there . 
But you see I was sent to you , Nick perhaps for a blessing to both of us . 
Mr. Raffles ended with a jocose snuffle no man felt his intellect more superior to religious cant . 
It is in your power to choose . 
If you insist on remaining here , even for a short time , you will get nothing from me . 
I shall decline to know you . 
Ha , ha ! said Raffles , with an affected explosion , that reminds me of a droll dog of a thief who declined to know the constable . 
Your allusions are lost on me sir , said Bulstrode , with white heat the law has no hold on me either through your agency or any other . 
You can't understand a joke , my good fellow . 
I only meant that I should never decline to know you . 
But let us be serious . 
Your quarterly payment won't quite suit me . 
Here Raffles rose and stalked once or twice up and down the room , swinging his leg , and assuming an air of masterly meditation . 
But I shall not give up my Liberty for a dirty annuity . 
I shall come and go where I like . 
Perhaps it may suit me to stay away , and correspond with a friend perhaps not . 
I will forward you the other if you will mention an address . 
No , I'll wait here till you bring it , said Raffles . 
I'll take a stroll and have a snack , and you'll be back by that time . 
Mr. Bulstrode's sickly body , shattered by the agitations he had gone through since the last evening , made him feel abjectly in the power of this loud invulnerable man . 
At that moment he snatched at a temporary repose to be won on any terms . 
I didn't find her , but I found out her husband's name , and I made a note of it . 
But hang it , I lost my pocketbook . 
However , if I heard it , I should know it again . 
However , if I hear of her and her family , you shall know , Nick . 
You'd like to do something for her , now she's your step daughter . 
Doubtless , said Mr. Bulstrode , with the usual steady look of his light gray eyes though that might reduce my power of assisting you . 
As he walked out of the room , Raffles winked slowly at his back , and then turned towards the window to watch the banker riding away virtually at his command . 
His lips first curled with a smile and then opened with a short triumphant laugh . 
But what the deuce was the name ? he presently said , half aloud , scratching his head , and wrinkling his brows horizontally . 
He had not really cared or thought about this point of forgetfulness until it occurred to him in his invention of annoyances for Bulstrode . 
It began with L it was almost all l's I fancy , he went on , with a sense that he was getting hold of the slippery name . 
He preferred using his time in pleasant conversation with the bailiff and the housekeeper , from whom he gathered as much as he wanted to know about Mr. Bulstrode's position in Middlemarch . 
He was not going to tell Bulstrode there was no actual good in telling , and to a mind like that of Mr. Raffles there is always probable good in a secret . 
THE WIDOW AND THE WIFE . 
Negli occhi porta la mia donna Amore Per che si fa gentil eio ch'ella mira Ov'ella passa , ogni uom ver lei si gira , E cui saluta fa tremar lo core . 
Sicche , bassando il viso , tutto smore , E d'ogni suo difetto allor sospira Fuggon dinanzi a lei Superbia ed Ira Aiutatemi , donne , a farle onore . 
Ogni dolcezza , ogni pensiero umile Nasee nel core a chi parlar la sente Ond' e beato chi prima la vide . 
Quel ch'ella par quand' un poco sorride , Non si pub dicer , ne tener a mente , Si e nuovo miracolo gentile . 
This possibility was quite hidden from Celia , who felt that Dorothea's childless widowhood fell in quite prettily with the birth of little Arthur . 
Dodo is just the creature not to mind about having anything of her own children or anything ! said Celia to her husband . 
And if she had had a baby , it never could have been such a dear as Arthur . 
No ! just imagine ! Really it was a mercy , said Celia and I think it is very nice for Dodo to be a widow . 
She can be just as fond of our baby as if it were her own , and she can have as many notions of her own as she likes . 
It is a pity she was not a queen , said the devout Sir James . 
But what should we have been then ? We must have been something else , said Celia , objecting to so laborious a flight of imagination . 
I like her better as she is . 
What will you do at Lowick , Dodo ? You say yourself there is nothing to be done there everybody is so clean and well off , it makes you quite melancholy . 
And here you have been so happy going all about Tipton with Mr. Garth into the worst backyards . 
And now uncle is abroad , you and Mr. Garth can have it all your own way and I am sure James does everything you tell him . 
I shall often come here , and I shall see how baby grows all the better , said Dorothea . 
But you will never see him washed , said Celia and that is quite the best part of the day . 
She was almost pouting it did seem to her very hard in Dodo to go away from the baby when she might stay . 
Dear Kitty , I will come and stay all night on purpose , said Dorothea but I want to be alone now , and in my own home . 
I wish to know the Farebrothers better , and to talk to Mr. Farebrother about what there is to be done in Middlemarch . 
Dorothea's native strength of will was no longer all converted into resolute submission . 
She had a great yearning to be at Lowick , and was simply determined to go , not feeling bound to tell all her reasons . 
But every one around her disapproved . 
Mrs. Vigo had been reader and secretary to royal personages , and in point of knowledge and sentiments even Dorothea could have nothing to object to her . 
Mrs. Cadwallader said , privately , You will certainly go mad in that house alone , my dear . 
We have all got to exert ourselves a little to keep sane , and call things by the same names as other people call them by . 
To be sure , for younger sons and women who have no money , it is a sort of provision to go mad they are taken care of then . 
But you must not run into that . 
Sitting alone in that library at Lowick you may fancy yourself ruling the weather you must get a few people round you who wouldn't believe you if you told them . 
That is a good lowering medicine . 
I never called everything by the same name that all the people about me did , said Dorothea , stoutly . 
But I suppose you have found out your mistake , my dear , said Mrs. Cadwallader , and that is a proof of sanity . 
Dorothea was aware of the sting , but it did not hurt her . 
No , she said , I still think that the greater part of the world is mistaken about many things . 
Surely one may be sane and yet think so , since the greater part of the world has often had to come round from its opinion . 
Of course the Chettams would not wish it . 
But I see clearly a husband is the best thing to keep her in order . 
If we were not so poor I would invite Lord Triton . 
He will be marquis some day , and there is no denying that she would make a good marchioness she looks handsomer than ever in her mourning . 
My dear Elinor , do let the poor woman alone . 
Such contrivances are of no use , said the easy Rector . 
There ought to be plenty of eligible matches invited to Freshitt and the Grange . 
Lord Triton is precisely the man full of plans for making the people happy in a soft headed sort of way . 
That would just suit Mrs. Casaubon . 
Let Mrs. Casaubon choose for herself , Elinor . 
Mark my words , Humphrey . 
If her friends don't exert themselves , there will be a worse business than the Casaubon business yet . 
For heaven's sake don't touch on that topic , Elinor ! It is a very sore point with Sir James He would be deeply offended if you entered on it to him unnecessarily . 
I have never entered on it , said Mrs Cadwallader , opening her hands . 
Celia told me all about the will at the beginning , without any asking of mine . 
Yes , yes but they want the thing hushed up , and I understand that the young fellow is going out of the neighborhood . 
Mrs. Cadwallader said nothing , but gave her husband three significant nods , with a very sarcastic expression in her dark eyes . 
Dorothea quietly persisted in spite of remonstrance and persuasion . 
One little act of hers may perhaps be smiled at as superstitious . 
The Synoptical Tabulation for the use of Mrs. Casaubon , she carefully enclosed and sealed , writing within the envelope , I could not use it . 
That silent colloquy was perhaps only the more earnest because underneath and through it all there was always the deep longing which had really determined her to come to Lowick . 
The longing was to see Will Ladislaw . 
She did not know any good that could come of their meeting she was helpless her hands had been tied from making up to him for any unfairness in his lot . 
But her soul thirsted to see him . 
Life would be no better than candle light tinsel and daylight rubbish if our spirits were not touched by what has been , to issues of longing and constancy . 
Probably some of Mr. Farebrother's Middlemarch hearers may follow him to Lowick sometimes . 
Do you not think so ? said Dorothea , rather despising herself for having a secret motive in asking the question . 
If they are wise they will , Mrs. Casaubon , said the old lady . 
I see that you set a right value on my son's preaching . 
His grandfather on my side was an excellent clergyman , but his father was in the law most exemplary and honest nevertheless , which is a reason for our never being rich . 
They say Fortune is a woman and capricious . 
But sometimes she is a good woman and gives to those who merit , which has been the case with you , Mrs. Casaubon , who have given a living to my son . 
Mrs. Farebrother recurred to her knitting with a dignified satisfaction in her neat little effort at oratory , but this was not what Dorothea wanted to hear . 
Poor thing ! she did not even know whether Will Ladislaw was still at Middlemarch , and there was no one whom she dared to ask , unless it were Lydgate . 
But just now she could not see Lydgate without sending for him or going to seek him . 
Still I do wish it came at the end of those wise reflections as naturally as a sob after holding the breath . 
And the meeting did happen , but in a formal way quite unexpected by her . 
She had not yet applied herself to her work , but was seated with her hands folded on her lap , looking out along the avenue of limes to the distant fields . 
Her reverie was broken by Tantripp , who came to say that Mr. Ladislaw was below , and begged permission to see Madam if it were not too early . 
I will see him , said Dorothea , rising immediately . 
Let him be shown into the drawing room . 
It was below the boudoir , and had also a bow window looking out on the avenue . 
Glad to see you here again , sir , said Pratt , lingering to adjust a blind . 
Very sorry to hear it , sir , said Pratt , retiring . 
Madam would look higher than Mr. Ladislaw , else I don't know her . 
Mrs. Cadwallader's maid says there's a lord coming who is to marry her when the mourning's over . 
There were not many moments for Will to walk about with his hat in his hand before Dorothea entered . 
The meeting was very different from that first meeting in Rome when Will had been embarrassed and Dorothea calm . 
This time he felt miserable but determined , while she was in a state of agitation which could not be hidden . 
Neither of them knew how it was , but neither of them spoke . 
She gave her hand for a moment , and then they went to sit down near the window , she on one settee and he on another opposite . 
I hope I have not presumed too much in calling , said Will I could not bear to leave the neighborhood and begin a new life without seeing you to say good by . 
I should have thought it unkind if you had not wished to see me , said Dorothea , her habit of speaking with perfect genuineness asserting itself through all her uncertainty and agitation . 
Are you going away immediately ? Very soon , I think . 
I intend to go to town and eat my dinners as a barrister , since , they say , that is the preparation for all public business . 
There will be a great deal of political work to be done by and by , and I mean to try and do some of it . 
Other men have managed to win an honorable position for themselves without family or money . 
And that will make it all the more honorable , said Dorothea , ardently . 
Besides , you have so many talents . 
I have heard from my uncle how well you speak in public , so that every one is sorry when you leave off , and how clearly you can explain things . 
And you care that justice should be done to every one . 
When we were in Rome , I thought you only cared for poetry and art , and the things that adorn life for us who are well off . 
But now I know you think about the rest of the world . 
While she was speaking Dorothea had lost her personal embarrassment , and had become like her former self . 
She looked at Will with a direct glance , full of delighted confidence . 
She was not aware how long it was before she answered . 
This was not judicious behavior . 
But Dorothea never thought of studying her manners she thought only of bowing to a sad necessity which divided her from Will . 
I shall be very happy when I hear that you have made your value felt . 
But you must have patience . 
It will perhaps be a long while . 
Will never quite knew how it was that he saved himself from falling down at her feet , when the long while came forth with its gentle tremor . 
He used to say that the horrible hue and surface of her crape dress was most likely the sufficient controlling force . 
He sat still , however , and only said I shall never hear from you . 
And you will forget all about me . 
No , said Dorothea , I shall never forget you . 
I have never forgotten any one whom I once knew . 
My life has never been crowded , and seems not likely to be so . 
And I have a great deal of space for memory at Lowick , haven't I ? She smiled . 
The blood had mounted to his face and neck , and he looked almost angry . 
It had seemed to him as if they were like two creatures slowly turning to marble in each other's presence , while their hearts were conscious and their eyes were yearning . 
But there was no help for it . 
Moreover , it was actually true that he was fearful of the effect which such confessions might have on Dorothea herself . 
She looked at him from that distance in some trouble , imagining that there might hate been an offence in her words . 
But all the while there was a current of thought in her about his probable want of money , and the impossibility of her helping him . 
I think it is not right for me to keep it , if you would wish to have it . 
It is wonderfully like you . 
You are very good , said Will , irritably . 
No I don't mind about it . 
It is not very consoling to have one's own likeness . 
It would be more consoling if others wanted to have it . 
Why should I have that , when I have nothing else ! A man with only a portmanteau for his stowage must keep his memorials in his head . 
Will spoke at random he was merely venting his petulance it was a little too exasperating to have his grandmother's portrait offered him at that moment . 
But to Dorothea's feeling his words had a peculiar sting . 
She rose and said with a touch of indignation as well as hauteur You are much the happier of us two , Mr. Ladislaw , to have nothing . 
Whatever the words might be , the tone seemed like a dismissal and quitting his leaning posture , he walked a little way towards her . 
Their eyes met , but with a strange questioning gravity . 
Something was keeping their minds aloof , and each was left to conjecture what was in the other . 
I never felt it a misfortune to have nothing till now , he said . 
But poverty may be as bad as leprosy , if it divides us from what we most care for . 
The words cut Dorothea to the heart , and made her relent . 
She answered in a tone of sad fellowship . 
Sorrow comes in so many ways . 
I used to despise women a little for not shaping their lives more , and doing better things . 
I was very fond of doing as I liked , but I have almost given it up , she ended , smiling playfully . 
I have not given up doing as I like , but I can very seldom do it , said Will . 
The thing one most longs for may be surrounded with conditions that would be intolerable . 
At this moment Pratt entered and said , Sir James Chettam is in the library , madam . 
Ask Sir James to come in here , said Dorothea , immediately . 
It was as if the same electric shock had passed through her and Will . 
Each of them felt proudly resistant , and neither looked at the other , while they awaited Sir James's entrance . 
Dorothea put out her hand and said her good by cordially . 
The sense that Sir James was depreciating Will , and behaving rudely to him , roused her resolution and dignity there was no touch of confusion in her manner . 
His aversion was all the stronger because he felt himself unable to interfere . 
But Sir James was a power in a way unguessed by himself . 
Entering at that moment , he was an incorporation of the strongest reasons through which Will's pride became a repellent force , keeping him asunder from Dorothea CHAPTER LV . 
Hath she her faults ? I would you had them too . 
They are the fruity must of soundest wine Or say , they are regenerating fire Such as hath turned the dense black element Into a crystal pathway for the sun . 
Each crisis seems final , simply because it is new . 
He was going away into the distance of unknown years , and if ever he came back he would be another man . 
Their young delight in speaking to each other , and saying what no one else would care to hear , was forever ended , and become a treasure of the past . 
For this very reason she dwelt on it without inward check . 
That unique happiness too was dead , and in its shadowed silent chamber she might vent the passionate grief which she herself wondered at . 
She only felt that there was something irrevocably amiss and lost in her lot , and her thoughts about the future were the more readily shapen into resolve . 
Ardent souls , ready to construct their coming lives , are apt to commit themselves to the fulfilment of their own visions . 
But this was not until some episodes with baby were over , and had left her mind at leisure . 
She had seated herself and taken up a fan for some time before she said , in her quiet guttural Dear Dodo , do throw off that cap . 
I am sure your dress must make you feel ill . 
I am so used to the cap it has become a sort of shell , said Dorothea , smiling . 
I feel rather bare and exposed when it is off . 
I must see you without it it makes us all warm , said Celia , throwing down her fan , and going to Dorothea . 
It was a pretty picture to see this little lady in white muslin unfastening the widow's cap from her more majestic sister , and tossing it on to a chair . 
Just as the coils and braids of dark brown hair had been set free , Sir James entered the room . 
He looked at the released head , and said , Ah ! in a tone of satisfaction . 
It was I who did it , James , said Celia . 
Dodo need not make such a slavery of her mourning she need not wear that cap any more among her friends . 
My dear Celia , said Lady Chettam , a widow must wear her mourning at least a year . 
Not if she marries again before the end of it , said Mrs. Cadwallader , who had some pleasure in startling her good friend the Dowager . 
Sir James was annoyed , and leaned forward to play with Celia's Maltese dog . 
That is very rare , I hope , said Lady Chettam , in a tone intended to guard against such events . 
No friend of ours ever committed herself in that way except Mrs. Beevor , and it was very painful to Lord Grinsell when she did so . 
Her first husband was objectionable , which made it the greater wonder . 
And severely she was punished for it . 
They said Captain Beevor dragged her about by the hair , and held up loaded pistols at her . 
Oh , if she took the wrong man ! said Mrs. Cadwallader , who was in a decidedly wicked mood . 
Marriage is always bad then , first or second . 
Priority is a poor recommendation in a husband if he has got no other . 
I would rather have a good second husband than an indifferent first . 
My dear , your clever tongue runs away with you , said Lady Chettam . 
I am sure you would be the last woman to marry again prematurely , if our dear Rector were taken away . 
Oh , I make no vows it might be a necessary economy . 
It is lawful to marry again , I suppose else we might as well be Hindoos instead of Christians . 
Of course if a woman accepts the wrong man , she must take the consequences , and one who does it twice over deserves her fate . 
But if she can marry blood , beauty , and bravery the sooner the better . 
I think the subject of our conversation is very ill chosen , said Sir James , with a look of disgust . 
Not on my account , Sir James , said Dorothea , determined not to lose the opportunity of freeing herself from certain oblique references to excellent matches . 
If you are speaking on my behalf , I can assure you that no question can be more indifferent and impersonal to me than second marriage . 
It is no more to me than if you talked of women going fox hunting whether it is admirable in them or not , I shall not follow them . 
Pray let Mrs. Cadwallader amuse herself on that subject as much as on any other . 
My dear Mrs. Casaubon , said Lady Chettam , in her stateliest way , you do not , I hope , think there was any allusion to you in my mentioning Mrs. Beevor . 
It was only an instance that occurred to me . 
She was step daughter to Lord Grinsell he married Mrs. Teveroy for his second wife . 
There could be no possible allusion to you . 
Oh no , said Celia . 
Nobody chose the subject it all came out of Dodo's cap . 
Mrs. Cadwallader only said what was quite true . 
A woman could not be married in a widow's cap , James . 
Hush , my dear ! said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
I will not offend again . 
I will not even refer to Dido or Zenobia . 
Only what are we to talk about ? I , for my part , object to the discussion of Human Nature , because that is the nature of rectors' wives . 
You spoke up just as you used to do , when anything was said to displease you . 
But I could hardly make out whether it was James that you thought wrong , or Mrs. Cadwallader . 
James spoke out of delicacy to me , but he was mistaken in supposing that I minded what Mrs. Cadwallader said . 
I should only mind if there were a law obliging me to take any piece of blood and beauty that she or anybody else recommended . 
Don't be anxious , Kitty I have quite other thoughts about my life . 
I shall never marry again , said Dorothea , touching her sister's chin , and looking at her with indulgent affection . 
Celia was nursing her baby , and Dorothea had come to say good night to her . 
Really quite ? said Celia . 
Not anybody at all if he were very wonderful indeed ? Dorothea shook her head slowly . 
I should know every one of the people and be their friend . 
I am going to have great consultations with Mr. Garth he can tell me almost everything I want to know . 
Then you WILL be happy , if you have a plan , Dodo ? said Celia . 
Perhaps little Arthur will like plans when he grows up , and then he can help you . 
Sir James made no remark . 
To his secret feeling there was something repulsive in a woman's second marriage , and no match would prevent him from feeling it a sort of desecration for Dorothea . 
But if Dorothea did choose to espouse her solitude , he felt that the resolution would well become her . 
How happy is he born and taught That serveth not another's will Whose armor is his honest thought , And simple truth his only skill ! . 
This man is freed from servile bands Of hope to rise or fear to fall Lord of himself though not of lands And having nothing yet hath all . 
It must be remembered that by business Caleb never meant money transactions , but the skilful application of labor . 
Most uncommon ! repeated Caleb . 
Those were the very words she sees into things in that way . 
But womanly , I hope , said Mrs. Garth , half suspecting that Mrs. Casaubon might not hold the true principle of subordination . 
Oh , you can't think ! said Caleb , shaking his head . 
You would like to hear her speak , Susan . 
She speaks in such plain words , and a voice like music . 
As he said , Business breeds . 
And one form of business which was beginning to breed just then was the construction of railways . 
The submarine railway may have its difficulties but the bed of the sea is not divided among various landed proprietors with claims for damages not only measurable but sentimental . 
It's a poor tale if a widow's property is to be spaded away , and the law say nothing to it . 
What's to hinder 'em from cutting right and left if they begin ? It's well known , I can't fight . 
The best way would be to say nothing , and set somebody on to send 'em away with a flea in their ear , when they came spying and measuring , said Solomon . 
Folks did that about Brassing , by what I can understand . 
It's all a pretence , if the truth was known , about their being forced to take one way . 
Let 'em go cutting in another parish . 
And I don't believe in any pay to make amends for bringing a lot of ruffians to trample your crops . 
Where's a company's pocket ? Brother Peter , God forgive him , got money out of a company , said Mrs. Waule . 
But that was for the manganese . 
That wasn't for railways to blow you to pieces right and left . 
But he set about acting on his views in a thoroughly diplomatic manner , by stimulating suspicion . 
And without distinct good of this kind in its promises , Reform seemed on a footing with the bragging of pedlers , which was a hint for distrust to every knowing person . 
The hour hand of a clock was quick by comparison with Mr. Solomon , who had an agreeable sense that he could afford to be slow . 
One day , however , he got into a dialogue with Hiram Ford , a wagoner , in which he himself contributed information . 
The least they pretended was that they were going to cut Lowick Parish into sixes and sevens . 
Why , there'll be no stirrin' from one pla ace to another , said Hiram , thinking of his wagon and horses . 
Not a bit , said Mr. Solomon . 
And cutting up fine land such as this parish ! Let 'em go into Tipton , say I. But there's no knowing what there is at the bottom of it . 
Traffic is what they put for'ard but it's to do harm to the land and the poor man in the long run . 
Why , they're Lunnon chaps , I reckon , said Hiram , who had a dim notion of London as a centre of hostility to the country . 
Ay , to be sure . 
It war good foon , I'd be bound , said Hiram , whose fun was much restricted by circumstances . 
Well , I wouldn't meddle with 'em myself , said Solomon . 
I'll crack MY whip about their ear'n , afore they bring it to that , though , said Hiram , while Mr. Solomon , shaking his bridle , moved onward . 
Nettle seed needs no digging . 
After a little chat he left them , observing that by and by they would reach him again where he was going to measure . 
Even when he had fixed on what he should do , there would be the task of telling his father . 
The coated men had the advantage as runners , and Fred covered their retreat by getting in front of the smock frocks and charging them suddenly enough to throw their chase into confusion . 
What do you confounded fools mean ? shouted Fred , pursuing the divided group in a zigzag , and cutting right and left with his whip . 
I'll swear to every one of you before the magistrate . 
You've knocked the lad down and killed him , for what I know . 
You'll every one of you be hanged at the next assizes , if you don't mind , said Fred , who afterwards laughed heartily as he remembered his own phrases . 
Yo're a coward , yo are . 
Yo git off your horse , young measter , and I'll have a round wi' ye , I wull . 
Yo daredn't come on wi'out your hoss an' whip . 
I'd soon knock the breath out on ye , I would . 
But just now he wanted to hasten back to Caleb and the prostrate youth . 
Let them put the horse in the stable , and tell the surveyors they can come back for their traps , said Fred . 
The ground is clear now . 
No , no , said Caleb , here's a breakage . 
They'll have to give up for to day , and it will be as well . 
Here , take the things before you on the horse , Tom . 
They'll see you coming , and they'll turn back . 
I'm glad I happened to be here at the right moment , Mr. Garth , said Fred , as Tom rode away . 
No knowing what might have happened if the cavalry had not come up in time . 
Ay , ay , it was lucky , said Caleb , speaking rather absently , and looking towards the spot where he had been at work at the moment of interruption . 
But deuce take it this is what comes of men being fools I'm hindered of my day's work . 
I can't get along without somebody to help me with the measuring chain . 
I'll help you with pleasure can I ? said Fred , with a sense that he should be courting Mary when he was helping her father . 
Well , you mustn't mind stooping and getting hot . 
Only I want to go first and have a round with that hulky fellow who turned to challenge me . 
It would be a good lesson for him . 
I shall not be five minutes . 
Nonsense ! said Caleb , with his most peremptory intonation . 
I shall go and speak to the men myself . 
Somebody has been telling them lies . 
The poor fools don't know any better . 
I shall go with you , then , said Fred . 
No , no stay where you are . 
I don't want your young blood . 
I can take care of myself . 
Caleb was a powerful man and knew little of any fear except the fear of hurting others and the fear of having to speechify . 
But he felt it his duty at this moment to try and give a little harangue . 
There was a striking mixture in him which came from his having always been a hard working man himself of rigorous notions about workmen and practical indulgence towards them . 
How came you to make such a mistake as this ? Somebody has been telling you lies . 
You thought those men up there wanted to do mischief . 
Aw ! was the answer , dropped at intervals by each according to his degree of unreadiness . 
Nonsense ! No such thing ! They're looking out to see which way the railroad is to take . 
Now , my lads , you can't hinder the railroad it will be made whether you like it or not . 
And if you go fighting against it , you'll get yourselves into trouble . 
The law gives those men leave to come here on the land . 
The owner has nothing to say against it , and if you meddle with them you'll have to do with the constable and Justice Blakesley , and with the handcuffs and Middlemarch jail . 
And you might be in for it now , if anybody informed against you . 
Caleb paused here , and perhaps the greatest orator could not have chosen either his pause or his images better for the occasion . 
But come , you didn't mean any harm . 
Somebody told you the railroad was a bad thing . 
It may do a bit of harm here and there , to this and to that and so does the sun in heaven . 
But the railway's a good thing . 
What's the canells been t' him ? They'n brought him neyther me at nor be acon , nor wage to lay by , if he didn't save it wi' clemmin' his own inside . 
Times ha' got wusser for him sin' I war a young un . 
An' so it'll be wi' the railroads . 
They'll on'y leave the poor mon furder behind . 
But them are fools as meddle , and so I told the chaps here . 
This is the big folks's world , this is . 
But yo're for the big folks , Muster Garth , yo are . 
He answered If you don't think well of me , Tim , never mind that's neither here nor there now . 
Things may be bad for the poor man bad they are but I want the lads here not to do what will make things worse for themselves . 
The cattle may have a heavy load , but it won't help 'em to throw it over into the roadside pit , when it's partly their own fodder . 
We war on'y for a bit o' foon , said Hiram , who was beginning to see consequences . 
That war all we war arter . 
Well , promise me not to meddle again , and I'll see that nobody informs against you . 
I'n ne'er meddled , an' I'n no call to promise , said Timothy . 
No , but the rest . 
Come , I'm as hard at work as any of you to day , and I can't spare much time . 
Say you'll be quiet without the constable . 
They went to work , and Fred helped vigorously . 
His spirits had risen , and he heartily enjoyed a good slip in the moist earth under the hedgerow , which soiled his perfect summer trousers . 
Was it his successful onset which had elated him , or the satisfaction of helping Mary's father ? Something more . 
The accidents of the morning had helped his frustrated imagination to shape an employment for himself which had several attractions . 
I am not sure that certain fibres in Mr. Garth's mind had not resumed their old vibration towards the very end which now revealed itself to Fred . 
For the effective accident is but the touch of fire where there is oil and tow and it al ways appeared to Fred that the railway brought the needed touch . 
But they went on in silence except when their business demanded speech . 
A good deal of what I know can only come from experience you can't learn it off as you learn things out of a book . 
But you are young enough to lay a foundation yet . 
Caleb pronounced the last sentence emphatically , but paused in some uncertainty . 
He had been under the impression lately that Fred had made up his mind to enter the Church . 
You do think I could do some good at it , if I were to try ? said Fred , more eagerly . 
That depends , said Caleb , turning his head on one side and lowering his voice , with the air of a man who felt himself to be saying something deeply religious . 
You must be sure of two things you must love your work , and not be always looking over the edge of it , wanting your play to begin . 
And the other is , you must not be ashamed of your work , and think it would be more honorable to you to be doing something else . 
I can never feel that I should do that in being a clergyman , said Fred , meaning to take a step in argument . 
Then let it alone , my boy , said Caleb , abruptly , else you'll never be easy . 
Or , if you ARE easy , you'll be a poor stick . 
That is very nearly what Mary thinks about it , said Fred , coloring . 
The expression of Caleb's face was visibly softening while Fred spoke . 
But he swung his head with a solemn slowness , and said That makes things more serious , Fred , if you want to take Mary's happiness into your keeping . 
I know that , Mr. Garth , said Fred , eagerly , and I would do anything for HER . 
She says she will never have me if I go into the Church and I shall be the most miserable devil in the world if I lose all hope of Mary . 
Really , if I could get some other profession , business anything that I am at all fit for , I would work hard , I would deserve your good opinion . 
I should like to have to do with outdoor things . 
I know a good deal about land and cattle already . 
I used to believe , you know though you will think me rather foolish for it that I should have land of my own . 
I am sure knowledge of that sort would come easily to me , especially if I could be under you in any way . 
Softly , my boy , said Caleb , having the image of Susan before his eyes . 
What have you said to your father about all this ? Nothing , yet but I must tell him . 
I am only waiting to know what I can do instead of entering the Church . 
I am very sorry to disappoint him , but a man ought to be allowed to judge for himself when he is four and twenty . 
How could I know when I was fifteen , what it would be right for me to do now ? My education was a mistake . 
But hearken to this , Fred , said Caleb . 
Yes , my boy , you have a claim , said Caleb , with much feeling in his voice . 
The young ones have always a claim on the old to help them forward . 
I was young myself once and had to do without much help but help would have been welcome to me , if it had been only for the fellow feeling's sake . 
Come to me to morrow at the office , at nine o'clock . 
At the office , mind . 
Mr. Garth would take no important step without consulting Susan , but it must be confessed that before he reached home he had taken his resolution . 
With regard to a large number of matters about which other men are decided or obstinate , he was the most easily manageable man in the world . 
He never , indeed , chose to be absolute except on some one else's behalf . 
It is come round as I thought , Susan , said Caleb , when they were seated alone in the evening . 
He had already narrated the adventure which had brought about Fred's sharing in his work , but had kept back the further result . 
The children ARE fond of each other I mean , Fred and Mary . 
Mrs. Garth laid her work on her knee , and fixed her penetrating eyes anxiously on her husband . 
After we'd done our work , Fred poured it all out to me . 
And I've determined to take him and make a man of him . 
Caleb ! said Mrs. Garth , in a deep contralto , expressive of resigned astonishment . 
It's a fine thing to do , said Mr. Garth , settling himself firmly against the back of his chair , and grasping the elbows . 
I shall have trouble with him , but I think I shall carry it through . 
The lad loves Mary , and a true love for a good woman is a great thing , Susan . 
It shapes many a rough fellow . 
Has Mary spoken to you on the subject ? said Mrs Garth , secretly a little hurt that she had to be informed on it herself . 
I asked her about Fred once I gave her a bit of a warning . 
But she assured me she would never marry an idle self indulgent man nothing since . 
Fred's heart is fixed on Mary , that I can see it gives me a good opinion of the lad and we always liked him , Susan . 
It is a pity for Mary , I think , said Mrs. Garth . 
Why a pity ? Because , Caleb , she might have had a man who is worth twenty Fred Vincy's . 
Ah ? said Caleb , with surprise . 
There was a severe precision in Mrs. Garth's utterance . 
She was vexed and disappointed , but she was bent on abstaining from useless words . 
Caleb was silent a few moments under a conflict of feelings . 
He looked at the floor and moved his head and hands in accompaniment to some inward argumentation . 
At last he said That would have made me very proud and happy , Susan , and I should have been glad for your sake . 
I've always felt that your belongings have never been on a level with you . 
But you took me , though I was a plain man . 
I took the best and cleverest man I had ever known , said Mrs. Garth , convinced that SHE would never have loved any one who came short of that mark . 
Well , perhaps others thought you might have done better . 
But it would have been worse for me . 
And that is what touches me close about Fred . 
I say , that young man's soul is in my hand and I'll do the best I can for him , so help me God ! It's my duty , Susan . 
Mrs. Garth was not given to tears , but there was a large one rolling down her face before her husband had finished . 
It came from the pressure of various feelings , in which there was much affection and some vexation . 
She wiped it away quickly , saying Few men besides you would think it a duty to add to their anxieties in that way , Caleb . 
That signifies nothing what other men would think . 
Caleb , leaning back in his chair , looked with anxious appeal towards his wife . 
She rose and kissed him , saying , God bless you , Caleb ! Our children have a good father . 
But she went out and had a hearty cry to make up for the suppression of her words . 
She felt sure that her husband's conduct would be misunderstood , and about Fred she was rational and unhopeful . 
Now Fred , said Caleb , you will have some desk work . 
So you must buckle to . 
I'm not afraid of arithmetic , Mr. Garth it always came easily to me . 
I think you know my writing . 
Let us see , said Caleb , taking up a pen , examining it carefully and handing it , well dipped , to Fred with a sheet of ruled paper . 
Copy me a line or two of that valuation , with the figures at the end . 
At that time the opinion existed that it was beneath a gentleman to write legibly , or with a hand in the least suitable to a clerk . 
Bad work like this dispelled all Caleb's mildness . 
The deuce ! he exclaimed , snarlingly . 
Do ? Why , you must learn to form your letters and keep the line . 
What's the use of writing at all if nobody can understand it ? asked Caleb , energetically , quite preoccupied with the bad quality of the work . 
Is there so little business in the world that you must be sending puzzles over the country ? But that's the way people are brought up . 
I should lose no end of time with the letters some people send me , if Susan did not make them out for me . 
Here Caleb tossed the paper from him . 
Fred was struggling with many thoughts . 
Mr. Garth had been so kind and encouraging at the beginning of their interview , that gratitude and hopefulness had been at a high pitch , and the downfall was proportionate . 
He had not thought of desk work in fact , like the majority of young gentlemen , he wanted an occupation which should be free from disagreeables . 
He did not like to disappoint himself there . 
I am very sorry , were all the words that he could muster . 
But Mr. Garth was already relenting . 
We must make the best of it , Fred , he began , with a return to his usual quiet tone . 
Every man can learn to write . 
Go at it with a will , and sit up at night if the day time isn't enough . 
We'll be patient , my boy . 
Callum shall go on with the books for a bit , while you are learning . 
But now I must be off , said Caleb , rising . 
You must let your father know our agreement . 
You'll save me Callum's salary , you know , when you can write and I can afford to give you eighty pounds for the first year , and more after . 
When Fred made the necessary disclosure to his parents , the relative effect on the two was a surprise which entered very deeply into his memory . 
The regret was genuine , and inspired Fred with strong , simple words . 
Mr. Vincy listened in profound surprise without uttering even an exclamation , a silence which in his impatient temperament was a sign of unusual emotion . 
He had not been in good spirits about trade that morning , and the slight bitterness in his lips grew intense as he listened . 
When Fred had ended , there was a pause of nearly a minute , during which Mr. Vincy replaced a book in his desk and turned the key emphatically . 
Then he looked at his son steadily , and said So you've made up your mind at last , sir ? Yes , father . 
Very well stick to it . 
I've no more to say . 
You've thrown away your education , and gone down a step in life , when I had given you the means of rising , that's all . 
I am very sorry that we differ , father . 
I think I can be quite as much of a gentleman at the work I have undertaken , as if I had been a curate . 
But I am grateful to you for wishing to do the best for me . 
Very well I have no more to say . 
I wash my hands of you . 
I only hope , when you have a son of your own he will make a better return for the pains you spend on him . 
This was very cutting to Fred . 
His father was using that unfair advantage possessed by us all when we are in a pathetic situation and see our own past as if it were simply part of the pathos . 
In reality , Mr. Vincy's wishes about his son had had a great deal of pride , inconsiderateness , and egoistic folly in them . 
But still the disappointed father held a strong lever and Fred felt as if he were being banished with a malediction . 
Board be hanged ! said Mr. Vincy , recovering himself in his disgust at the notion that Fred's keep would be missed at his table . 
Of course your mother will want you to stay . 
But I shall keep no horse for you , you understand and you will pay your own tailor . 
You will do with a suit or two less , I fancy , when you have to pay for 'em . 
Fred lingered there was still something to be said . 
I hope you will shake hands with me , father , and forgive me the vexation I have caused you . 
If her husband had been vehement against Fred , she would have been urged into defence of her darling . 
It was the end of the fourth day when Mr. Vincy said to her Come , Lucy , my dear , don't be so down hearted . 
You always have spoiled the boy , and you must go on spoiling him . 
Nothing ever did cut me so before , Vincy , said the wife , her fair throat and chin beginning to tremble again , only his illness . 
Pooh , pooh , never mind ! We must expect to have trouble with our children . 
Don't make it worse by letting me see you out of spirits . 
Well , I won't , said Mrs. Vincy , roused by this appeal and adjusting herself with a little shake as of a bird which lays down its ruffled plumage . 
It won't do to begin making a fuss about one , said Mr. Vincy , wishing to combine a little grumbling with domestic cheerfulness . 
There's Rosamond as well as Fred . 
I'm sure I felt for her being disappointed of her baby but she got over it nicely . 
Baby , pooh ! I can see Lydgate is making a mess of his practice , and getting into debt too , by what I hear . 
I shall have Rosamond coming to me with a pretty tale one of these days . 
But they'll get no money from me , I know . 
Let HIS family help him . 
I never did like that marriage . 
But it's no use talking . 
Ring the bell for lemons , and don't look dull any more , Lucy . 
I'll drive you and Louisa to Riverston to morrow . 
The book and they must part , but day by day , In lines that thwart like portly spiders ran They wrote the tale , from Tully Veolan . 
he set out at five o'clock and called on Mrs. Garth by the way , wishing to assure himself that she accepted their new relations willingly . 
He found the family group , dogs and cats included , under the great apple tree in the orchard . 
But the centre of interest was changed for all by the arrival of Fred Vincy . 
You can't keep up with Fred and me , said Ben . 
Mother , please say that I am to go , urged Letty , whose life was much checkered by resistance to her depreciation as a girl . 
Let us all go and see Mary , said Christy , opening his arms . 
No , my dear child , we must not go in a swarm to the parsonage . 
And that old Glasgow suit of yours would never do . 
Besides , your father will come home . 
We must let Fred go alone . 
He can tell Mary that you are here , and she will come back to morrow . 
Christy glanced at his own threadbare knees , and then at Fred's beautiful white trousers . 
Certainly Fred's tailoring suggested the advantages of an English university , and he had a graceful way even of looking warm and of pushing his hair back with his handkerchief . 
Children , run away , said Mrs. Garth it is too warm to hang about your friends . 
Take your brother and show him the rabbits . 
The eldest understood , and led off the children immediately . 
He got down from the coach at nine o'clock , just after his father went out . 
I am longing for Caleb to come and hear what wonderful progress Christy is making . 
He has paid his expenses for the last year by giving lessons , carrying on hard study at the same time . 
He hopes soon to get a private tutorship and go abroad . 
He is a great fellow , said Fred , to whom these cheerful truths had a medicinal taste , and no trouble to anybody . 
After a slight pause , he added , But I fear you will think that I am going to be a great deal of trouble to Mr. Garth . 
Caleb likes taking trouble he is one of those men who always do more than any one would have thought of asking them to do , answered Mrs. Garth . 
I happen to have behaved just the worst to the people I can't help wishing for the most from . 
But while two men like Mr. Garth and Mr. Farebrother have not given me up , I don't see why I should give myself up . 
Fred thought it might be well to suggest these masculine examples to Mrs. Garth . 
Assuredly , said she , with gathering emphasis . 
A young man for whom two such elders had devoted themselves would indeed be culpable if he threw himself away and made their sacrifices vain . 
Mr. Garth has told you about that ? You were not surprised , I dare say ? Fred ended , innocently referring only to his own love as probably evident enough . 
Yes , I confess I was surprised . 
She never did give me any not the least in the world , when I talked to her myself , said Fred , eager to vindicate Mary . 
But when I asked Mr. Farebrother to speak for me , she allowed him to tell me there was a hope . 
The power of admonition which had begun to stir in Mrs. Garth had not yet discharged itself . 
Exemplary wives will sometimes find scapegoats in this way . 
She now said with energetic decision , You made a great mistake , Fred , in asking Mr. Farebrother to speak for you . 
Did I ? said Fred , reddening instantaneously . 
I cannot conceive how it could be any pain to Mr. Farebrother , said Fred , who nevertheless felt that surprising conceptions were beginning to form themselves . 
Precisely you cannot conceive , said Mrs. Garth , cutting her words as neatly as possible . 
It was an unwonted sign of emotion in her that she should put her work out of her hands . 
In fact her feelings were divided between the satisfaction of giving Fred his discipline and the sense of having gone a little too far . 
Fred took his hat and stick and rose quickly . 
Then you think I am standing in his way , and in Mary's too ? he said , in a tone which seemed to demand an answer . 
Mrs. Garth could not speak immediately . 
She had brought herself into the unpleasant position of being called on to say what she really felt , yet what she knew there were strong reasons for concealing . 
And to her the consciousness of having exceeded in words was peculiarly mortifying . 
Besides , Fred had given out unexpected electricity , and he now added , Mr. Garth seemed pleased that Mary should be attached to me . 
He could not have known anything of this . 
Mrs. Garth felt a severe twinge at this mention of her husband , the fear that Caleb might think her in the wrong not being easily endurable . 
She answered , wanting to check unintended consequences I spoke from inference only . 
I am not aware that Mary knows anything of the matter . 
Mrs. Garth was obliged to interfere , the other young ones came up and the tete a tete with Fred was ended . 
He got away as soon as he could , and Mrs. Garth could only imply some retractation of her severity by saying God bless you when she shook hands with him . 
She was unpleasantly conscious that she had been on the verge of speaking as one of the foolish women speaketh telling first and entreating silence after . 
But she had not entreated silence , and to prevent Caleb's blame she determined to blame herself and confess all to him that very night . 
It was curious what an awful tribunal the mild Caleb's was to her , whenever he set it up . 
But she meant to point out to him that the revelation might do Fred Vincy a great deal of good . 
No doubt it was having a strong effect on him as he walked to Lowick . 
Also he was piqued that he had been what he called such a stupid lout as to ask that intervention from Mr. Farebrother . 
But it was not in a lover's nature it was not in Fred's , that the new anxiety raised about Mary's feeling should not surmount every other . 
But the fighting with Mr. Farebrother must be of a metaphorical kind , which was much more difficult to Fred than the muscular . 
Certainly this experience was a discipline for Fred hardly less sharp than his disappointment about his uncle's will . 
The iron had not entered into his soul , but he had begun to imagine what the sharp edge would be . 
It did not once occur to Fred that Mrs. Garth might be mistaken about Mr. Farebrother , but he suspected that she might be wrong about Mary . 
Mary had been staying at the parsonage lately , and her mother might know very little of what had been passing in her mind . 
He did not feel easier when he found her looking cheerful with the three ladies in the drawing room . 
He told her first of Christy's arrival and then of his own engagement with her father and he was comforted by seeing that this latter news touched her keenly . 
She said hurriedly , I am so glad , and then bent over her writing to hinder any one from noticing her face . 
But here was a subject which Mrs. Farebrother could not let pass . 
No , really , Mrs. Farebrother , I am glad of both , I fear , said Mary , cleverly getting rid of one rebellious tear . 
I have a dreadfully secular mind . 
I never liked any clergyman except the Vicar of Wakefield and Mr. Farebrother . 
Now why , my dear ? said Mrs. Farebrother , pausing on her large wooden knitting needles and looking at Mary . 
You have always a good reason for your opinions , but this astonishes me . 
Of course I put out of the question those who preach new doctrine . 
But why should you dislike clergymen ? Oh dear , said Mary , her face breaking into merriment as she seemed to consider a moment , I don't like their neckcloths . 
Why , you don't like Camden's , then , said Miss Winifred , in some anxiety . 
Yes , I do , said Mary . 
I don't like the other clergymen's neckcloths , because it is they who wear them . 
How very puzzling ! said Miss Noble , feeling that her own intellect was probably deficient . 
My dear , you are joking . 
You would have better reasons than these for slighting so respectable a class of men , said Mrs. Farebrother , majestically . 
Miss Garth has such severe notions of what people should be that it is difficult to satisfy her , said Fred . 
Well , I am glad at least that she makes an exception in favor of my son , said the old lady . 
Mary was wondering at Fred's piqued tone , when Mr. Farebrother came in and had to hear the news about the engagement under Mr. Garth . 
At the end he said with quiet satisfaction , THAT is right and then bent to look at Mary's labels and praise her handwriting . 
Fred felt horribly jealous was glad , of course , that Mr. Farebrother was so estimable , but wished that he had been ugly and fat as men at forty sometimes are . 
It was clear what the end would be , since Mary openly placed Farebrother above everybody , and these women were all evidently encouraging the affair . 
Pray come too , Miss Garth . 
I want you to see a stupendous spider I found this morning . 
Mary at once saw the Vicar's intention . 
He had never since the memorable evening deviated from his old pastoral kindness towards her , and her momentary wonder and doubt had quite gone to sleep . 
I am going to look out an engraving which Fred is tall enough to hang for me . 
I shall be back in a few minutes . 
And then he went out . 
Nevertheless , the first word Fred said to Mary was It is of no use , whatever I do , Mary . 
You are sure to marry Farebrother at last . 
There was some rage in his tone . 
What do you mean , Fred ? Mary exclaimed indignantly , blushing deeply , and surprised out of all her readiness in reply . 
It is impossible that you should not see it all clearly enough you who see everything . 
I only see that you are behaving very ill , Fred , in speaking so of Mr. Farebrother after he has pleaded your cause in every way . 
How can you have taken up such an idea ? Fred was rather deep , in spite of his irritation . 
If Mary had really been unsuspicious , there was no good in telling her what Mrs. Garth had said . 
It follows as a matter of course , he replied . 
When you are continually seeing a man who beats me in everything , and whom you set up above everybody , I can have no fair chance . 
You are very ungrateful , Fred , said Mary . 
I wish I had never told Mr. Farebrother that I cared for you in the least . 
No , I am not ungrateful I should be the happiest fellow in the world if it were not for this . 
I told your father everything , and he was very kind he treated me as if I were his son . 
I could go at the work with a will , writing and everything , if it were not for this . 
For this ? for what ? said Mary , imagining now that something specific must have been said or done . 
This dreadful certainty that I shall be bowled out by Farebrother . 
Mary was appeased by her inclination to laugh . 
Fred , she said , peeping round to catch his eyes , which were sulkily turned away from her , you are too delightfully ridiculous . 
Do you really like me best , Mary ? said Fred , turning eyes full of affection on her , and trying to take her hand . 
I don't like you at all at this moment , said Mary , retreating , and putting her hands behind her . 
I only said that no mortal ever made love to me besides you . 
And that is no argument that a very wise man ever will , she ended , merrily . 
I wish you would tell me that you could not possibly ever think of him , said Fred . 
Never dare to mention this any more to me , Fred , said Mary , getting serious again . 
I don't know whether it is more stupid or ungenerous in you not to see that Mr Farebrother has left us together on purpose that we might speak freely . 
I am disappointed that you should be so blind to his delicate feeling . 
The result of the conversation was on the whole more painful to Mary inevitably her attention had taken a new attitude , and she saw the possibility of new interpretations . 
To have a reason for going home the next day was a relief , for Mary earnestly desired to be always clear that she loved Fred best . 
And we can set a watch over our affections and our constancy as we can over other treasures . 
Fred has lost all his other expectations he must keep this , Mary said to herself , with a smile curling her lips . 
It was impossible to help fleeting visions of another kind new dignities and an acknowledged value of which she had often felt the absence . 
But these things with Fred outside them , Fred forsaken and looking sad for the want of her , could never tempt her deliberate thought . 
At the time when Mr. Vincy uttered that presentiment about Rosamond , she herself had never had the idea that she should be driven to make the sort of appeal which he foresaw . 
She had not yet had any anxiety about ways and means , although her domestic life had been expensive as well as eventful . 
Her baby had been born prematurely , and all the embroidered robes and caps had to be laid by in darkness . 
, and showing an ignorant security that he knew the proper thing to say on every topic . 
For to Rosamond this visit was a source of unprecedented but gracefully concealed exultation . 
Especially as , probably at the Captain's suggestion , his married sister , Mrs. Mengan , had come with her maid , and stayed two nights on her way from town . 
Hence it was clearly worth while for Rosamond to take pains with her music and the careful selection of her lace . 
He had , moreover , that sort of high breeding which consists in being free from the petty solicitudes of middle class gentility , and he was a great critic of feminine charms . 
Rosamond delighted in his admiration now even more than she had done at Quallingham , and he found it easy to spend several hours of the day in flirting with her . 
For he was not at all a jealous husband , and preferred leaving a feather headed young gentleman alone with his wife to bearing him company . 
You really look so absent sometimes you seem to be seeing through his head into something behind it , instead of looking at him . 
My dear Rosy , you don't expect me to talk much to such a conceited ass as that , I hope , said Lydgate , brusquely . 
If he got his head broken , I might look at it with interest , not before . 
Ask Ladislaw if he doesn't think your Captain the greatest bore he ever met with . 
Ladislaw has almost forsaken the house since he came . 
Rosamond thought she knew perfectly well why Mr. Ladislaw disliked the Captain he was jealous , and she liked his being jealous . 
No , dear but we have had dinners for him . 
And he comes in and goes out as he likes . 
He doesn't want me Still , when he is in the room , you might show him more attention . 
He may not be a phoenix of cleverness in your sense his profession is different but it would be all the better for you to talk a little on his subjects . 
I think his conversation is quite agreeable . 
And he is anything but an unprincipled man . 
Rosamond was silent and did not smile again but the lovely curves of her face looked good tempered enough without smiling . 
Rosamond found it quite agreeable and caught many of its phrases . 
On the contrary Lydgate was more than hurt he was utterly confounded that she had risked herself on a strange horse without referring the matter to his wish . 
After the first almost thundering exclamations of astonishment , which sufficiently warned Rosamond of what was coming , he was silent for some moments . 
However , you have come back safely , he said , at last , in a decisive tone . 
You will not go again , Rosy that is understood . 
If it were the quietest , most familiar horse in the world , there would always be the chance of accident . 
And you know very well that I wished you to give up riding the roan on that account . 
But there is the chance of accident indoors , Tertius . 
My darling , don't talk nonsense , said Lydgate , in an imploring tone surely I am the person to judge for you . 
I think it is enough that I say you are not to go again . 
Rosamond was arranging her hair before dinner , and the reflection of her head in the glass showed no change in its loveliness except a little turning aside of the long neck . 
Lydgate had been moving about with his hands in his pockets , and now paused near her , as if he awaited some assurance . 
Lydgate had often fastened the plaits before , being among the deftest of men with his large finely formed fingers . 
Lydgate was still angry , and had not forgotten his point . 
I shall tell the Captain that he ought to have known better than offer you his horse , he said , as he moved away . 
I beg you will not do anything of the kind , Tertius , said Rosamond , looking at him with something more marked than usual in her speech . 
It will be treating me as if I were a child . 
Promise that you will leave the subject to me . 
There did seem to be some truth in her objection . 
Lydgate said , Very well , with a surly obedience , and thus the discussion ended with his promising Rosamond , and not with her promising him . 
In fact , she had been determined not to promise . 
Rosamond had that victorious obstinacy which never wastes its energy in impetuous resistance . 
What she liked to do was to her the right thing , and all her cleverness was directed to getting the means of doing it . 
Lydgate could not show his anger towards her , but he was rather bearish to the Captain , whose visit naturally soon came to an end . 
Lydgate could only say , Poor , poor darling ! but he secretly wondered over the terrible tenacity of this mild creature . 
There was gathering within him an amazed sense of his powerlessness over Rosamond . 
His superior knowledge and mental force , instead of being , as he had imagined , a shrine to consult on all occasions , was simply set aside on every practical question . 
He had regarded Rosamond's cleverness as precisely of the receptive kind which became a woman . 
He was now beginning to find out what that cleverness was what was the shape into which it had run as into a close network aloof and independent . 
And that oil apart , with which she had nothing to do , of course she believed in her own opinion more than she did in his . 
Lydgate was astounded to find in numberless trifling matters , as well as in this last serious case of the riding , that affection did not make her compliant . 
He had no doubt that the affection was there , and had no presentiment that he had done anything to repel it . 
Rosamond was soon looking lovelier than ever at her worktable , enjoying drives in her father's phaeton and thinking it likely that she might be invited to Quallingham . 
These latter states of mind had one cause amongst others , which he had generously but mistakenly avoided mentioning to Rosamond , lest it should affect her health and spirits . 
Between him and her indeed there was that total missing of each other's mental track , which is too evidently possible even between persons who are continually thinking of each other . 
It always remains true that if we had been greater , circumstance would have been less strong against us . 
How this came about may be easily seen without much arithmetic or knowledge of prices . 
Rosamond , even without such an occasion as Captain Lydgate's visit , was fond of giving invitations , and Lydgate , though he often thought the guests tiresome , did not interfere . 
This sociability seemed a necessary part of professional prudence , and the entertainment must be suitable . 
It must be remembered that he had never hitherto felt the check of importunate debt , and he walked by habit , not by self criticism . 
But the check had come . 
Its novelty made it the more irritating . 
And there was not only the actual debt there was the certainty that in his present position he must go on deepening it . 
This could hardly have been more galling to any disposition than to Lydgate's , with his intense pride his dislike of asking a favor or being under an obligation to any one . 
In the mean time he had no money or prospects of money and his practice was not getting more lucrative . 
How could such a change be made without Rosamond's concurrence ? The immediate occasion of opening the disagreeable fact to her was forced upon him . 
Any other article was a phrase delicately implying jewellery , and more particularly some purple amethysts costing thirty pounds , which Lydgate had bought as a bridal present . 
He was nerving himself to this rigor as he rode from Brassing , and meditated on the representations he must make to Rosamond . 
It was evening when he got home . 
He was intensely miserable , this strong man of nine and twenty and of many gifts . 
As he went along the passage to the drawing room , he heard the piano and singing . 
Of course , Ladislaw was there . 
It was some weeks since Will had parted from Dorothea , yet he was still at the old post in Middlemarch . 
Lydgate had no objection in general to Ladislaw's coming , but just now he was annoyed that he could not find his hearth free . 
When he opened the door the two singers went on towards the key note , raising their eyes and looking at him indeed , but not regarding his entrance as an interruption . 
His face , already paler than usual , took on a scowl as he walked across the room and flung himself into a chair . 
The singers feeling themselves excused by the fact that they had only three bars to sing , now turned round . 
How are you , Lydgate ? said Will , coming forward to shake hands . 
Lydgate took his hand , but did not think it necessary to speak . 
Have you dined , Tertius ? I expected you much earlier , said Rosamond , who had already seen that her husband was in a horrible humor . 
She seated herself in her usual place as she spoke . 
I should like some tea , please , said Lydgate , curtly , still scowling and looking markedly at his legs stretched out before him . 
Will was too quick to need more . 
I shall be off , he said , reaching his hat . 
Tea is coming , said Rosamond pray don't go . 
Yes , Lydgate is bored , said Will , who had more comprehension of Lydgate than Rosamond had , and was not offended by his manner , easily imagining outdoor causes of annoyance . 
There is the more need for you to stay , said Rosamond , playfully , and in her lightest accent he will not speak to me all the evening . 
Yes , Rosamond , I shall , said Lydgate , in his strong baritone . 
I have some serious business to speak to you about . 
No introduction of the business could have been less like that which Lydgate had intended but her indifferent manner had been too provoking . 
There ! you see , said Will . 
I'm going to the meeting about the Mechanics' Institute . 
Good by and he went quickly out of the room . 
Rosamond did not look at her husband , but presently rose and took her place before the tea tray . 
She was thinking that she had never seen him so disagreeable . 
These revived impressions succeeded each other quickly and dreamily in Lydgate's mind while the tea was being brewed . 
He minds about nothing else and I mind about nothing else . 
Lydgate was too hasty in attributing insensibility to her after her own fashion , she was sensitive enough , and took lasting impressions . 
Her impression now was one of offence and repulsion . 
But then , Rosamond had no scowls and had never raised her voice she was quite sure that no one could justly find fault with her . 
It touched Lydgate now , and mingled the early moments of his love for her with all the other memories which were stirred in this crisis of deep trouble . 
He laid his ample hand softly on hers , saying Dear ! with the lingering utterance which affection gives to the word . 
Rosamond too was still under the power of that same past , and her husband was still in part the Lydgate whose approval had stirred delight . 
She put his hair lightly away from his forehead , then laid her other hand on his , and was conscious of forgiving him . 
I am obliged to tell you what will hurt you , Rosy . 
But there are things which husband and wife must think of together . 
I dare say it has occurred to you already that I am short of money . 
Lydgate paused but Rosamond turned her neck and looked at a vase on the mantel piece . 
I was not able to pay for all the things we had to get before we were married , and there have been expenses since which I have been obliged to meet . 
I took pains to keep it from you while you were not well but now we must think together about it , and you must help me . 
What can I do , Tertius ? said Rosamond , turning her eyes on him again . 
Rosamond's thin utterance threw into the words What can I do ! as much neutrality as they could hold . 
They fell like a mortal chill on Lydgate's roused tenderness . 
He did not storm in indignation he felt too sad a sinking of the heart . 
And when he spoke again it was more in the tone of a man who forces himself to fulfil a task . 
It is necessary for you to know , because I have to give security for a time , and a man must come to make an inventory of the furniture . 
Have you not asked papa for money ? she said , as soon as she could speak . 
No. Then I must ask him ! she said , releasing her hands from Lydgate's , and rising to stand at two yards' distance from him . 
No , Rosy , said Lydgate , decisively . 
It is too late to do that . 
The inventory will be begun to morrow . 
Remember it is a mere security it will make no difference it is a temporary affair . 
I insist upon it that your father shall not know , unless I choose to tell him , added Lydgate , with a more peremptory emphasis . 
This certainly was unkind , but Rosamond had thrown him back on evil expectation as to what she would do in the way of quiet steady disobedience . 
The unkindness seemed unpardonable to her she was not given to weeping and disliked it , but now her chin and lips began to tremble and the tears welled up . 
But he did wish to spare her as much as he could , and her tears cut him to the heart . 
Try not to grieve , darling , said Lydgate , turning his eyes up towards her . 
That she had chosen to move away from him in this moment of her trouble made everything harder to say , but he must absolutely go on . 
We must brace ourselves to do what is necessary . 
It is I who have been in fault I ought to have seen that I could not afford to live in this way . 
But many things have told against me in my practice , and it really just now has ebbed to a low point . 
I may recover it , but in the mean time we must pull up we must change our way of living . 
When I have given this security I shall have time to look about me and you are so clever that if you turn your mind to managing you will school me into carefulness . 
I have been a thoughtless rascal about squaring prices but come , dear , sit down and forgive me . 
Lydgate was bowing his neck under the yoke like a creature who had talons , but who had Reason too , which often reduces us to meekness . 
When he had spoken the last words in an imploring tone , Rosamond returned to the chair by his side . 
I shall not send them away , said Lydgate , the peremptoriness rising again . 
Was it of any use to explain ? If we left Middlemarch ? there would of course be a sale , and that would do as well . 
But we are not going to leave Middlemarch . 
I am sure , Tertius , it would be much better to do so . 
Why can we not go to London ? Or near Durham , where your family is known ? We can go nowhere without money , Rosamond . 
Your friends would not wish you to be without money . 
And surely these odious tradesmen might be made to understand that , and to wait , if you would make proper representations to them . 
This is idle Rosamond , said Lydgate , angrily . 
You must learn to take my judgment on questions you don't understand . 
I have made necessary arrangements , and they must be carried out . 
As to friends , I have no expectations whatever from them , and shall not ask them for anything . 
The thought in her mind was that if she had known how Lydgate would behave , she would never have married him . 
We have no time to waste now on unnecessary words , dear , said Lydgate , trying to be gentle again . 
There are some details that I want to consider with you . 
Dover says he will take a good deal of the plate back again , and any of the jewellery we like . 
He really behaves very well . 
Are we to go without spoons and forks then ? said Rosamond , whose very lips seemed to get thinner with the thinness of her utterance . 
She was determined to make no further resistance or suggestions . 
Oh no , dear ! said Lydgate . 
But look here , he continued , drawing a paper from his pocket and opening it here is Dover's account . 
See , I have marked a number of articles , which if we returned them would reduce the amount by thirty pounds . 
I have not marked any of the jewellery . 
Lydgate had really felt this point of the jewellery very bitter to himself but he had overcome the feeling by severe argument . 
It is useless for me to look , Tertius , said Rosamond , calmly you will return what you please . 
She would not turn her eyes on the paper , and Lydgate , flushing up to the roots of his hair , drew it back and let it fall on his knee . 
Meanwhile Rosamond quietly went out of the room , leaving Lydgate helpless and wondering . 
Was she not coming back ? It seemed that she had no more identified herself with him than if they had been creatures of different species and opposing interests . 
He tossed his head and thrust his hands deep into his pockets with a sort of vengeance . 
There was still science there were still good objects to work for . 
He must give a tug still all the stronger because other satisfactions were going . 
But the door opened and Rosamond re entered . 
You can return what you like of it , and of the plate also . 
You will not , of course , expect me to stay at home to morrow . 
I shall go to papa's . 
To many women the look Lydgate cast at her would have been more terrible than one of anger it had in it a despairing acceptance of the distance she was placing between them . 
And when shall you come back again ? he said , with a bitter edge on his accent . 
Oh , in the evening . 
Of course I shall not mention the subject to mamma . 
Rosamond was convinced that no woman could behave more irreproachably than she was behaving and she went to sit down at her work table . 
Certainly not , said Rosamond I shall do everything it becomes me to do . 
It is not right that the thing should be left to servants , or that I should have to speak to them about it . 
And I shall be obliged to go out I don't know how early . 
I understand your shrinking from the humiliation of these money affairs . 
Rosamond did not answer immediately , but at last she said , Very well , I will stay at home . 
I shall not touch these jewels , Rosy . 
But I will write out a list of plate that we may return , and that can be packed up and sent at once . 
The servants will know THAT , said Rosamond , with the slightest touch of sarcasm . 
Well , we must meet some disagreeables as necessities . 
Where is the ink , I wonder ? said Lydgate , rising , and throwing the account on the larger table where he meant to write . 
It will only be for a time , I hope , that we shall have to be stingy and particular . 
She received his kiss and returned it faintly , and in this way an appearance of accord was recovered for the time . 
But Lydgate could not help looking forward with dread to the inevitable future discussions about expenditure and the necessity for a complete change in their way of living . 
They said of old the Soul had human shape , But smaller , subtler than the fleshly self , So wandered forth for airing when it pleased . 
And see ! beside her cherub face there floats A pale lipped form aerial whispering Its promptings in that little shell her ear . 
when they are buzzing in search of their particular nectar . 
Mrs. Farebrother considered that the news had something to do with their having only once seen Mr. Ladislaw at Lowick , and Miss Noble made many small compassionate mewings . 
Hence Fred talked by preference of what he considered indifferent news , and a propos of that young Ladislaw mentioned what he had heard at Lowick Parsonage . 
He imagined that there was a passionate attachment on both sides , and this struck him as much too serious to gossip about . 
He remembered Will's irritability when he had mentioned Mrs. Casaubon , and was the more circumspect . 
And he was right there though he had no vision of the way in which her mind would act in urging her to speak . 
When she repeated Fred's news to Lydgate , he said , Take care you don't drop the faintest hint to Ladislaw , Rosy . 
He is likely to fly out as if you insulted him . 
Of course it is a painful affair . 
Rosamond turned her neck and patted her hair , looking the image of placid indifference . 
But the next time Will came when Lydgate was away , she spoke archly about his not going to London as he had threatened . 
I know all about it . 
I have a confidential little bird , said she , showing very pretty airs of her head over the bit of work held high between her active fingers . 
There is a powerful magnet in this neighborhood . 
To be sure there is . 
Nobody knows that better than you , said Will , with light gallantry , but inwardly prepared to be angry . 
Great God ! what do you mean ? said Will , flushing over face and ears , his features seeming to change as if he had had a violent shake . 
Don't joke tell me what you mean . 
You don't really know ? said Rosamond , no longer playful , and desiring nothing better than to tell in order that she might evoke effects . 
No ! he returned , impatiently . 
My brother Fred heard it from the Farebrothers . 
Will started up from his chair and reached his hat . 
I dare say she likes you better than the property , said Rosamond , looking at him from a distance . 
Pray don't say any more about it , said Will , in a hoarse undertone extremely unlike his usual light voice . 
It is a foul insult to her and to me . 
Then he sat down absently , looking before him , but seeing nothing . 
Now you are angry with ME , said Rosamond . 
It is too bad to bear ME malice . 
You ought to be obliged to me for telling you . 
So I am , said Will , abruptly , speaking with that kind of double soul which belongs to dreamers who answer questions . 
I expect to hear of the marriage , said Rosamond , play . 
She had already secretly disobeyed him by asking her father to help them , and he had ended decisively by saying , I am more likely to want help myself . 
Good phrases are surely , and ever were , very commendable . 
At Middlemarch in those times a large sale was regarded as a kind of festival . 
The second day , when the best furniture was to be sold , everybody was there even Mr. Thesiger , the rector of St . 
Peter's , had looked in for a short time , wishing to buy the carved table , and had rubbed elbows with Mr. Bambridge and Mr. Horrock . 
Everybody that day did not include Mr. Bulstrode , whose health could not well endure crowds and draughts . 
This proviso might have sounded rather satirically in Will's ear if he had been in a mood to care about such satire . 
Hence he replied that he had reasons for deferring his departure a little , and would be happy to go to the sale . 
Meanwhile Mrs. Larcher's drawing room furniture was enough for him . 
The fender was of polished steel , with much lancet shaped open work and a sharp edge Now , ladies , said he , I shall appeal to you . 
It's not a thing I would put in MY drawing room , said Mrs. Mawmsey , audibly , for the warning of the rash husband . 
I wonder AT Mrs. Larcher . 
Every blessed child's head that fell against it would be cut in two . 
The edge is like a knife . 
It was worth six shillings to have a fender you could always tell that joke on , said Mr. Clintup , laughing low and apologetically to his next neighbor . 
He was a diffident though distinguished nurseryman , and feared that the audience might regard his bid as a foolish one . 
Meanwhile Joseph had brought a trayful of small articles . 
but pass the tray round , Joseph these bijoux must be examined , ladies . 
Gentlemen , if I had less of a conscience , I should not wish you to bid high for this lot I have a longing for it myself . 
What can promote innocent mirth , and I may say virtue , more than a good riddle ? it hinders profane language , and attaches a man to the society of refined females . 
This ingenious article itself , without the elegant domino box , card basket , c . 
, ought alone to give a high price to the lot . 
Carried in the pocket it might make an individual welcome in any society . 
Four shillings , sir ? four shillings for this remarkable collection of riddles with the et caeteras . 
Here is a sample How must you spell honey to make it catch lady birds ? Answer money . 
You hear ? lady birds honey money . 
This is an amusement to sharpen the intellect it has a sting it has what we call satire , and wit without indecency . 
Four and sixpence five shillings . 
The bidding ran on with warming rivalry . 
Mr. Bowyer was a bidder , and this was too exasperating . 
Bowyer couldn't afford it , and only wanted to hinder every other man from making a figure . 
Come , Trumbull , this is too bad you've been putting some old maid's rubbish into the sale , murmured Mr. Toller , getting close to the auctioneer . 
I want to see how the prints go , and I must be off soon . 
It was only an act of benevolence which your noble heart would approve . 
Joseph ! quick with the prints Lot . 
Now , gentlemen , you who are connoissURES , you are going to have a treat . 
Who painted it ? said Mr. Powderell , much impressed . 
I'll bid a pound ! said Mr. Powderell , in a tone of resolved emotion , as of a man ready to put himself in the breach . 
Whether from awe or pity , nobody raised the price on him . 
Next came two Dutch prints which Mr. Toller had been eager for , and after he had secured them he went away . 
It was this marquee that Mr. Bambridge was bent on buying , and he appeared to like looking inside it frequently , as a foretaste of its possession . 
Who is it you've picked up , Bam ? said Mr. Horrock , aside . 
Ask him yourself , returned Mr. Bambridge . 
He said he'd just turned in from the road . 
He now came forward again , and his eye caught the conspicuous stranger , who , rather to his surprise , was staring at him markedly . 
But Will was immediately appealed to by Mr. Trumbull . 
Yes , Mr. Ladislaw , yes this interests you as a connoissURE , I think . 
Turn it a little , sir ? yes . 
Joseph , turn it a little towards Mr. Ladislaw Mr. Ladislaw , having been abroad , understands the merit of these things , you observe . 
All eyes were for a moment turned towards Will , who said , coolly , Five pounds . 
The auctioneer burst out in deep remonstrance . 
Ah ! Mr. Ladislaw ! the frame alone is worth that . 
Five guineas five seven six five ten . 
But it was knocked down to him at ten guineas , whereupon he pushed his way towards the bow window and went out . 
But this signified little to our acquaintance Mr. Raffles , who never hesitated to thrust himself on unwilling observation , if it suited his purpose to do so . 
And what is that to you ? It was in Will's nature that the first spark it threw out was a direct answer of the question and a challenge of the consequences . 
The slim young fellow with his girl's complexion looked like a tiger cat ready to spring on him . 
Under such circumstances Mr. Raffles's pleasure in annoying his company was kept in abeyance . 
No offence , my good sir , no offence ! I only remember your mother knew her when she was a girl . 
But it is your father that you feature , sir . 
I had the pleasure of seeing your father too . 
Parents alive , Mr. Ladislaw ? No ! thundered Will , in the same attitude as before . 
Should be glad to do you a service , Mr. Ladislaw by Jove , I should ! Hope to meet again . 
Hereupon Raffles , who had lifted his hat with the last words , turned himself round with a swing of his leg and walked away . 
Will looked after him a moment , and could see that he did not re enter the auction room , but appeared to be walking towards the road . 
For an instant he thought that he had been foolish not to let the man go on talking but no ! on the whole he preferred doing without knowledge from that source . 
John Bull doesn't do much of that . 
But your father was very ill when I saw him . 
Lord , lord ! hands you might see through . 
You were a small youngster then . 
Did he get well ? No , said Will , curtly . 
Ah ! Well ! I've often wondered what became of your mother . 
You know nothing dishonorable of her , sir , said Will , turning on him rather savagely . 
But Mr. Raffles just now was not sensitive to shades of manner . 
Not a bit ! said he , tossing his head decisively She was a little too honorable to like her friends that was it ! Here Raffles again winked slowly . 
Slap up shop , high profits and no mistake . 
And so she ran away from the whole concern . 
I travelled for 'em , sir , in a gentlemanly way at a high salary . 
They didn't mind her running away at first godly folks , sir , very godly and she was for the stage . 
The son was alive then , and the daughter was at a discount . 
Hallo ! here we are at the Blue Bull . 
He walked a long while on the Lowick road away from the town , glad of the starlit darkness when it came . 
He felt as if he had had dirt cast on him amidst shouts of scorn . 
There was this to confirm the fellow's statement that his mother never would tell him the reason why she had run away from her family . 
However , let them suspect what they pleased , they would find themselves in the wrong . 
They would find out that the blood in his veins was as free from the taint of meanness as theirs . 
Inconsistencies , answered Imlac , cannot both be right , but imputed to man they may both be true . 
The same night , when Mr. Bulstrode returned from a journey to Brassing on business , his good wife met him in the entrance hall and drew him into his private sitting room . 
Nicholas , she said , fixing her honest eyes upon him anxiously , there has been such a disagreeable man here asking for you it has made me quite uncomfortable . 
What kind of man , my dear , said Mr. Bulstrode , dreadfully certain of the answer . 
A red faced man with large whiskers , and most impudent in his manner . 
He declared he was an old friend of yours , and said you would be sorry not to see him . 
He wanted to wait for you here , but I told him he could see you at the Bank to morrow morning . 
Most impudent he was ! stared at me , and said his friend Nick had luck in wives . 
However , I presume you will not be troubled by him again . 
He will probably come to the Bank to beg , doubtless . 
No more was said on the subject until the next day , when Mr. Bulstrode had returned from the town and was dressing for dinner . 
He started nervously and looked up as she entered . 
You look very ill , Nicholas . 
Sit down and let me sponge it with vinegar . 
Physically Mr. Bulstrode did not want the vinegar , but morally the affectionate attention soothed him . 
Though always polite , it was his habit to receive such services with marital coolness , as his wife's duty . 
Has anything worried you ? she said . 
Did that man come to you at the Bank ? Yes it was as I had supposed . 
He is a man who at one time might have done better . 
But he has sunk into a drunken debauched creature . 
Is he quite gone away ? said Mrs. Bulstrode , anxiously but for certain reasons she refrained from adding , It was very disagreeable to hear him calling himself a friend of yours . 
At that moment she would not have liked to say anything which implied her habitual consciousness that her husband's earlier connections were not quite on a level with her own . 
Not that she knew much about them . 
The unreformed provincial mind distrusted London and while true religion was everywhere saving , honest Mrs. Bulstrode was convinced that to be saved in the Church was more respectable . 
She so much wished to ignore towards others that her husband had ever been a London Dissenter , that she liked to keep it out of sight even in talking to him . 
In the interview at the Bank , Raffles had made it evident that his eagerness to torment was almost as strong in him as any other greed . 
He had frankly said that he had turned out of the way to come to Middlemarch , just to look about him and see whether the neighborhood would suit him to live in . 
What he had wanted chiefly was to see his friend Nick and family , and know all about the prosperity of a man to whom he was so much attached . 
By and by he might come back for a longer stay . 
This time Raffles declined to be seen off the premises , as he expressed it declined to quit Middlemarch under Bulstrode's eyes . 
He meant to go by coach the next day if he chose . 
Neither threats nor coaxing could avail he could not count on any persistent fear nor on any promise . 
On the contrary , he felt a cold certainty at his heart that Raffles unless providence sent death to hinder him would come back to Middlemarch before long . 
And that certainty was a terror . 
The terror of being judged sharpens the memory it sends an inevitable glare over that long unvisited past which has been habitually recalled only in general phrases . 
Even without memory , the life is bound into one by a zone of dependence in growth and decay but intense memory forces a man to own his blameworthy past . 
Into this second life Bulstrode's past had now risen , only the pleasures of it seeming to have lost their quality . 
Again he heard himself called for as Brother Bulstrode in prayer meetings , speaking on religious platforms , preaching in private houses . 
Again he felt himself thinking of the ministry as possibly his vocation , and inclined towards missionary labor . 
That was the happiest time of his life that was the spot he would have chosen now to awake in and find the rest a dream . 
He believed without effort in the peculiar work of grace within him , and in the signs that God intended him for special instrumentality . 
That was the setting in of a new current for his ambition , directing his prospects of instrumentality towards the uniting of distinguished religious gifts with successful business . 
But there was a branch house at the west end , and no pettiness or dinginess to give suggestions of shame . 
He remembered his first moments of shrinking . 
They were private , and were filled with arguments some of these taking the form of prayer . 
Mr. Dunkirk had never expected that there would be any shrinking at all he had never conceived that trade had anything to do with the scheme of salvation . 
And yet if he could be back in that far off spot with his youthful poverty why , then he would choose to be a missionary . 
But the train of causes in which he had locked himself went on . 
There was trouble in the fine villa at Highbury . 
It was natural that after a time marriage should have been thought of between them . 
But Mrs. Dunkirk had qualms and yearnings about her daughter , who had long been regarded as lost both to God and her parents . 
It was known that the daughter had married , but she was utterly gone out of sight . 
The mother , having lost her boy , imagined a grandson , and wished in a double sense to reclaim her daughter . 
If she were found , there would be a channel for property perhaps a wide one in the provision for several grandchildren . 
Efforts to find her must be made before Mrs. Dunkirk would marry again . 
The daughter had been found but only one man besides Bulstrode knew it , and he was paid for keeping silence and carrying himself away . 
That was the bare fact which Bulstrode was now forced to see in the rigid outline with which acts present themselves onlookers . 
It was easy for him to settle what was due from him to others by inquiring what were God's intentions with regard to himself . 
And after five years Death again came to widen his path , by taking away his wife . 
Meanwhile , in his conversation with Raffles , he had learned something momentous , something which entered actively into the struggle of his longings and terrors . 
There , he thought , lay an opening towards spiritual , perhaps towards material rescue . 
The spiritual kind of rescue was a genuine need with him . 
There may be coarse hypocrites , who consciously affect beliefs and emotions for the sake of gulling the world , but Bulstrode was not one of them . 
He was simply a man whose desires had been stronger than his theoretic beliefs , and who had gradually explained the gratification of his desires into satisfactory agreement with those beliefs . 
This implicit reasoning is essentially no more peculiar to evangelical belief than the use of wide phrases for narrow motives is peculiar to Englishmen . 
There is no general doctrine which is not capable of eating out our morality if unchecked by the deep seated habit of direct fellow feeling with individual fellow men . 
But a man who believes in something else than his own greed , has necessarily a conscience or standard to which he more or less adapts himself . 
And now had come a moment in which that mould seemed in danger of being broken and utterly cast away . 
He had long poured out utterances of repentance . 
But today a repentance had come which was of a bitterer flavor , and a threatening Providence urged him to a kind of propitiation which was not simply a doctrinal transaction . 
The divine tribunal had changed its aspect for him self prostration was no longer enough , and he must bring restitution in his hand . 
His belief in these moments of dread was , that if he spontaneously did something right , God would save him from the consequences of wrong doing . 
For religion can only change when the emotions which fill it are changed and the religion of personal fear remains nearly at the level of the savage . 
At last he came to a difficult resolve , and wrote a letter to Will Ladislaw , begging him to be at the Shrubs that evening for a private interview at nine o'clock . 
Thank you , she is quite satisfied she has gone out with her daughters this evening . 
Nothing , I dare say , has been farther from your thoughts than that there had been important ties in the past which could connect your history with mine . 
Will felt something like an electric shock . 
He was already in a state of keen sensitiveness and hardly allayed agitation on the subject of ties in the past , and his presentiments were not agreeable . 
He answered , with a marked change of color No , indeed , nothing . 
You see before you , Mr. Ladislaw , a man who is deeply stricken . 
So far as human laws go , you have no claim on me whatever . 
Will was even more uncomfortable than wondering . 
Mr. Bulstrode had paused , leaning his head on his hand , and looking at the floor . 
Also , that your father was at one time much emaciated by illness . 
Do you know any particulars of your mother's family ? he continued . 
No she never liked to speak of them . 
She was a very generous , honorable woman , said Will , almost angrily . 
I do not wish to allege anything against her . 
Did she never mention her mother to you at all ? I have heard her say that she thought her mother did not know the reason of her running away . 
She said poor mother' in a pitying tone . 
I was enriched by that marriage a result which would probably not have taken place certainly not to the same extent if your grandmother could have discovered her daughter . 
The impulse within him was to reject the disclosed connection . 
Pray be seated , Mr. Ladislaw , said Bulstrode , anxiously . 
Doubtless you are startled by the suddenness of this discovery . 
But I entreat your patience with one who is already bowed down by inward trial . 
Will reseated himself , feeling some pity which was half contempt for this voluntary self abasement of an elderly man . 
It is my wish , Mr. Ladislaw , to make amends for the deprivation which befell your mother . 
He felt that he was performing a striking piece of scrupulosity in the judgment of his auditor , and a penitential act in the eyes of God . 
Bulstrode shrank there was a visible quivering in his face and hands . 
He was totally unprepared to have his advances met in this way , or to find himself urged into more revelation than he had beforehand set down as needful . 
But at that moment he dared not tell a lie , and he felt suddenly uncertain of his ground which he had trodden with some confidence before . 
I will not deny that you conjecture rightly , he answered , with a faltering in his tone . 
And I wish to make atonement to you as the one still remaining who has suffered a loss through me . 
Mr. Bulstrode had gone on to particulars in the expectation that these would work strongly on Ladislaw , and merge other feelings in grateful acceptance . 
But Will was looking as stubborn as possible , with his lip pouting and his fingers in his side pockets . 
Were you connected with the business by which that fortune you speak of was originally made ? Mr. Bulstrode's thought was , Raffles has told him . 
How could he refuse to answer when he had volunteered what drew forth the question ? He answered , Yes . 
Bulstrode reddened with irrepressible anger . 
Yes , it is , said Will , starting up again with his hat in his hand . 
It is eminently mine to ask such questions , when I have to decide whether I will have transactions with you and accept your money . 
My unblemished honor is important to me . 
It is important to me to have no stain on my birth and connections . 
And now I find there is a stain which I can't help . 
My mother felt it , and tried to keep as clear of it as she could , and so will I. You shall keep your ill gotten money . 
If I had any fortune of my own , I would willingly pay it to any one who could disprove what you have told me . 
What I have to thank you for is that you kept the money till now , when I can refuse it . 
It ought to lie with a man's self that he is a gentleman . 
Bulstrode was going to speak , but Will , with determined quickness , was out of the room in an instant , and in another the hall door had closed behind him . 
No third person listening could have thoroughly understood the impetuosity of Will's repulse or the bitterness of his words . 
As for Bulstrode when Will was gone he suffered a violent reaction , and wept like a woman . 
Rut the relief of weeping had to be checked . 
Perhaps , through all other hidden thoughts , the one that breathed most comfort was , that Will Ladislaw at least was not likely to publish what had taken place that evening . 
He was a squyer of lowe degre , That loved the king's daughter of Hungrie . 
Will Ladislaw's mind was now wholly bent on seeing Dorothea again , and forthwith quitting Middlemarch . 
He left the letter at the office , ordering the messenger to carry it to Lowick Manor , and wait for an answer . 
Ladislaw felt the awkwardness of asking for more last words . 
His former farewell had been made in the hearing of Sir James Chettam , and had been announced as final even to the butler . 
That was not what he could wish for even in his secret heart , or even if she had been ready to meet such hard contrast for his sake . 
This change would surely justify him in asking Dorothea to receive him once more . 
But Dorothea on that morning was not at home to receive Will's note . 
But he had just heard something from Standish which , while it justified these surmises about Will , offered a means of nullifying all danger with regard to Dorothea . 
Enough ! I understand , said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
I am such a blackamoor that I cannot smirch myself . 
I don't mean that it's of any consequence , said Sir James , disliking that Mrs. Cadwallader should understand too much . 
Only it is desirable that Dorothea should know there are reasons why she should not receive him again and I really can't say so to her . 
It will come lightly from you . 
It came very lightly indeed . 
And so Mr. Brooke was coming back ? Delightful ! coming back , it was to be hoped , quite cured of Parliamentary fever and pioneering . 
All false ! said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
It seems nobody ever goes into the house without finding this young gentleman lying on the rug or warbling at the piano . 
But the people in manufacturing towns are always disreputable . 
I will not hear any evil spoken of Mr. Ladislaw he has already suffered too much injustice . 
Her face was flushed and her lip trembled . 
But it is a pity that young Lydgate should have married one of these Middlemarch girls . 
Considering he's a son of somebody , he might have got a woman with good blood in her veins , and not too young , who would have put up with his profession . 
There's Clara Harfager , for instance , whose friends don't know what to do with her and she has a portion . 
Then we might have had her among us . 
However ! it's no use being wise for other people . 
Where is Celia ? Pray let us go in . 
I am going on immediately to Tipton , said Dorothea , rather haughtily . 
Sir James could say nothing as he accompanied her to the carriage . 
He was altogether discontented with the result of a contrivance which had cost him some secret humiliation beforehand . 
Dorothea drove along between the berried hedgerows and the shorn corn fields , not seeing or hearing anything around . 
The tears came and rolled down her cheeks , but she did not know it . 
The world , it seemed , was turning ugly and hateful , and there was no place for her trustfulness . 
They all try to blacken him before me but I will care for no pain , if he is not to blame . 
I always believed he was good . 
At last she said I must stay here a little , Mrs. Kell . 
I will go into the library and write you some memoranda from my uncle's letter , if you will open the shutters for me . 
The shutters are open , madam , said Mrs. Kell , following Dorothea , who had walked along as she spoke . 
Mr. Ladislaw is there , looking for something . 
When she reached the door she said to Mrs. Kell Go in first , and tell him that I am here . 
Will turned round quickly , and the next moment Dorothea was entering . 
As Mrs. Kell closed the door behind her they met each was looking at the other , and consciousness was overflowed by something that suppressed utterance . 
It was not confusion that kept them silent , for they both felt that parting was near , and there is no shamefacedness in a sad parting . 
Pray sit down , said Dorothea , crossing her hands on her lap I am very glad you were here . 
I am going away immediately , and I could not go without speaking to you again . 
I thought we had parted when you came to Lowick many weeks ago you thought you were going then , said Dorothea , her voice trembling a little . 
Yes but I was in ignorance then of things which I know now things which have altered my feelings about the future . 
When I saw you before , I was dreaming that I might come back some day . 
I don't think I ever shall now . 
You wished me to know the reasons ? said Dorothea , timidly . 
Yes , said Will , impetuously , shaking his head backward , and looking away from her with irritation in his face . 
Of course I must wish it . 
I have been grossly insulted in your eyes and in the eyes of others . 
There has been a mean implication against my character . 
There was no need of other safeguard against me the safeguard of wealth was enough . 
It would be very unkind of you to suppose that I ever attributed any meanness to you , she began . 
Dorothea was hurt by this movement following up the previous anger of his tone . 
At this moment she had no belief that Will would in any case have wanted to marry her , and she feared using words which might imply such a belief . 
She only said earnestly , recurring to his last word I am sure no safeguard was ever needed against you . 
In the stormy fluctuation of his feelings these words of hers seemed to him cruelly neutral , and he looked pale and miserable after his angry outburst . 
He went to the table and fastened up his portfolio , while Dorothea looked at him from the distance . 
They were wasting these last moments together in wretched silence . 
What shall you do in life ? said Dorothea , timidly . 
Have your intentions remained just the same as when we said good by before ? Yes , said Will , in a tone that seemed to waive the subject as uninteresting . 
I shall work away at the first thing that offers . 
I suppose one gets a habit of doing without happiness or hope . 
Oh , what sad words ! said Dorothea , with a dangerous tendency to sob . 
Then trying to smile , she added , We used to agree that we were alike in speaking too strongly . 
I have not spoken too strongly now , said Will , leaning back against the angle of the wall . 
There are certain things which a man can only go through once in his life and he must know some time or other that the best is over with him . 
This experience has happened to me while I am very young that is all . 
Of course I shall go on living as a man might do who had seen heaven in a trance . 
It must be admitted to be a ghostly kind of wooing . 
But Dorothea's mind was rapidly going over the past with quite another vision than his . 
Dorothea stood silent , with her eyes cast down dreamily , while images crowded upon her which left the sickening certainty that Will was referring to Mrs. Lydgate . 
But why sickening ? He wanted her to know that here too his conduct should be above suspicion . 
Will was not surprised at her silence . 
Yet , after all , had she any love for him ? he could not pretend to himself that he would rather believe her to be without that pain . 
He could not deny that a secret longing for the assurance that she loved him was at the root of all his words . 
Neither of them knew how long they stood in that way . 
Then turning to Will , she said , I have some memoranda to write for the housekeeper . 
I must go , said Will , when the door had closed again advancing towards her . 
The day after to morrow I shall leave Middlemarch . 
You have acted in every way rightly , said Dorothea , in a low tone , feeling a pressure at her heart which made it difficult to speak . 
She put out her hand , and Will took it for an instant with . 
out speaking , for her words had seemed to him cruelly cold and unlike herself . 
Their eyes met , but there was discontent in his , and in hers there was only sadness . 
He turned away and took his portfolio under his arm . 
I have never done you injustice . 
Please remember me , said Dorothea , repressing a rising sob . 
Why should you say that ? said Will , with irritation . 
As if I were not in danger of forgetting everything else . 
He had really a movement of anger against her at that moment , and it impelled him to go away without pause . 
It was all one flash to Dorothea his last words his distant bow to her as he reached the door the sense that he was no longer there . 
She sank into the chair , and for a few moments sat like a statue , while images and emotions were hurrying upon her . 
They were parted all the same , but Dorothea drew a deep breath and felt her strength return she could think of him unrestrainedly . 
At that moment the parting was easy to bear the first sense of loving and being loved excluded sorrow . 
It was as if some hard icy pressure had melted , and her consciousness had room to expand her past was come back to her with larger interpretation . 
He had acted so as to defy reproach , and make wonder respectful . 
Any one watching her might have seen that there was a fortifying thought within her . 
She spoke her last words to the housekeeper in cheerful tones , and when she seated herself in the carriage her eyes were bright and her cheeks blooming under the dismal bonnet . 
She threw back the heavy weepers , and looked before her , wondering which road Will had taken . 
It was in her nature to be proud that he was blameless , and through all her feelings there ran this vein I was right to defend him . 
The earth looked like a happy place under the vast heavens , and Dorothea was wishing that she might overtake Will and see him once more . 
She could not look back at him . 
She could no more make any sign that would seem to say , Need we part ? than she could stop the carriage to wait for him . 
And if I could but have given him the money , and made things easier for him ! were the longings that came back the most persistently . 
She felt to the full all the imperativeness of the motives which urged Will's conduct . 
These little things are great to little man . 
Have you seen much of your scientific phoenix , Lydgate , lately ? said Mr. Toller at one of his Christmas dinner parties , speaking to Mr. Farebrother on his right hand . 
Not much , I am sorry to say , answered the Vicar , accustomed to parry Mr. Toller's banter about his belief in the new medical light . 
I am out of the way and he is too busy . 
Is he ? I am glad to hear it , said Dr . 
Minchin , with mingled suavity and surprise . 
She says Lydgate is indefatigable , and is making a fine thing of Bulstrode's institution . 
He is preparing a new ward in case of the cholera coming to us . 
And preparing theories of treatment to try on the patients , I suppose , said Mr. Toller . 
Come , Toller , be candid , said Mr. Farebrother . 
If a man goes a little too far along a new road , it is usually himself that he harms more than any one else . 
I am sure you and Wrench ought to be obliged to him , said Dr . 
Minchin , looking towards Toller , for he has sent you the cream of Peacock's patients . 
Lydgate has been living at a great rate for a young beginner , said Mr. Harry Toller , the brewer . 
I suppose his relations in the North back him up . 
I hope so , said Mr. Chichely , else he ought not to have married that nice girl we were all so fond of . 
Hang it , one has a grudge against a man who carries off the prettiest girl in the town . 
Ay , by God ! and the best too , said Mr. Standish . 
My friend Vincy didn't half like the marriage , I know that , said Mr. Chichely . 
How the relations on the other side may have come down I can't say . 
There was an emphatic kind of reticence in Mr. Chichely's manner of speaking . 
Oh , I shouldn't think Lydgate ever looked to practice for a living , said Mr. Toller , with a slight touch of sarcasm , and there the subject was dropped . 
He may have been taking an opiate , was a thought that crossed Mr. Farebrother's mind tic douloureux perhaps or medical worries . 
However , Lydgate fell in love with her , said the Vicar to himself , and she must be to his taste . 
Mr. Farebrother noticed that Lydgate seemed bored , and that Mr. Vincy spoke as little as possible to his son in law . 
It is dreadfully dull for her when there is no company , said Mrs. Vincy , who was seated at the old lady's side . 
I am sure I thought so when Rosamond was ill , and I was staying with her . 
You know , Mrs. Farebrother , ours is a cheerful house . 
I am of a cheerful disposition myself , and Mr. Vincy always likes something to be going on . 
That is what Rosamond has been used to . 
But my children are all good tempered , thank God . 
This was easily credible to any one looking at Mrs. Vincy as she threw back her broad cap strings , and smiled towards her three little girls , aged from seven to eleven . 
But in that smiling glance she was obliged to include Mary Garth , whom the three girls had got into a corner to make her tell them stories . 
He insisted too , and Mary , without fuss , began again in her neat fashion , with precisely the same words as before . 
You will never care any more about my one eyed giant , Loo , said Fred at the end . 
Tell about him now , said Louisa . 
Oh , I dare say I am quite cut out . 
Please , said Louisa , looking up at the Vicar . 
No , no , I am a grave old parson . 
If I try to draw a story out of my bag a sermon comes instead . 
Shall I preach you a sermon ? said he , putting on his short sighted glasses , and pursing up his lips . 
Yes , said Louisa , falteringly . 
Let me see , then . 
Against cakes how cakes are bad things , especially if they are sweet and have plums in them . 
Louisa took the affair rather seriously , and got down from the Vicar's knee to go to Fred . 
Ah , I see it will not do to preach on New Year's Day , said Mr. Farebrother , rising and walking away . 
He had discovered of late that Fred had become jealous of him , and also that he himself was not losing his preference for Mary above all other women . 
A delightful young person is Miss Garth , said Mrs. Farebrother , who had been watching her son's movements . 
Yes , said Mrs. Vincy , obliged to reply , as the old lady turned to her expectantly . 
It is a pity she is not better looking . 
I cannot say that , said Mrs. Farebrother , decisively . 
We must not always ask for beauty , when a good God has seen fit to make an excellent young woman without it . 
I put good manners first , and Miss Garth will know how to conduct herself in any station . 
New visitors entered , and the drawing room was given up to music and games , while whist tables were prepared in the quiet room on the other side of the hall . 
But at the end he got Mr. Chichely to take his place , and left the room . 
As he crossed the hall , Lydgate had just come in and was taking off his great coat . 
You see , I can leave the whist table easily enough , he went on , smiling at Lydgate , now I don't play for money . 
I owe that to you , Mrs. Casaubon says . 
How ? said Lydgate , coldly . 
Ah , you didn't mean me to know it I call that ungenerous reticence . 
You should let a man have the pleasure of feeling that you have done him a good turn . 
I don't enter into some people's dislike of being under an obligation upon my word , I prefer being under an obligation to everybody for behaving well to me . 
I can't tell what you mean , said Lydgate , unless it is that I once spoke of you to Mrs. Casaubon . 
It was Brooke who let it out , only the other day . 
Oh , Brooke is such a leaky minded fool , said Lydgate , contemptuously . 
Well , I was glad of the leakiness then . 
I don't see why you shouldn't like me to know that you wished to do me a service , my dear fellow . 
And you certainly have done me one . 
It's rather a strong check to one's self complacency to find how much of one's right doing depends on not being in want of money . 
A man will not be tempted to say the Lord's Prayer backward to please the devil , if he doesn't want the devil's services . 
I have no need to hang on the smiles of chance now . 
I don't see that there's any money getting without chance , said Lydgate if a man gets it in a profession , it's pretty sure to come by chance . 
He answered in a tone of good humored admission Ah , there's enormous patience wanted with the way of the world . 
Oh yes , said Lydgate , in a careless tone , changing his attitude and looking at his watch . 
People make much more of their difficulties than they need to do . 
He knew as distinctly as possible that this was an offer of help to himself from Mr. Farebrother , and he could not bear it . 
Besides , behind all making of such offers what else must come ? that he should mention his case , imply that he wanted specific things . 
At that moment , suicide seemed easier . 
What time are you ? said the Vicar , devouring his wounded feeling . 
After eleven , said Lydgate . 
And they went into the drawing room . 
Where lies the power , there let the blame lie too . 
Nay , power is relative you cannot fright The coming pest with border fortresses , Or catch your carp with subtle argument . 
All force is twain in one cause is not cause Unless effect be there and action's self Must needs contain a passive . 
So command Exists but with obedience . 
His troubles will perhaps appear miserably sordid , and beneath the attention of lofty persons who can know nothing of debt except on a magnificent scale . 
It was because Lydgate writhed under the idea of getting his neck beneath this vile yoke that he had fallen into a bitter moody state which was continually widening Rosamond's alienation from him . 
We two can do with only one servant , and live on very little , he said , and I shall manage with one horse . 
You must expect your practice to be lowered . 
My dear Rosamond , it is not a question of choice . 
We have begun too expensively . 
Peacock , you know , lived in a much smaller house than this . 
But we married because we loved each other , I suppose . 
And that may help us to pull along till things get better . 
Come , dear , put down that work and come to me . 
He was really in chill gloom about her at that moment , but he dreaded a future without affection , and was determined to resist the oncoming of division between them . 
Rosamond obeyed him , and he took her on his knee , but in her secret soul she was utterly aloof from him . 
The poor thing saw only that the world was not ordered to her liking , and Lydgate was part of that world . 
And he began again to speak persuasively . 
I find , now I look into things a little , Rosy , that it is wonderful what an amount of money slips away in our housekeeping . 
I suppose the servants are careless , and we have had a great many people coming . 
But there must be many in our rank who manage with much less they must do with commoner things , I suppose , and look after the scraps . 
It seems , money goes but a little way in these matters , for Wrench has everything as plain as possible , and he has a very large practice . 
Oh , if you think of living as the Wrenches do ! said Rosamond , with a little turn of her neck . 
But I have heard you express your disgust at that way of living . 
Yes , they have bad taste in everything they make economy look ugly . 
I only meant that they avoid expenses , although Wrench has a capital practice . 
Why should not you have a good practice , Tertius ? Mr. Peacock had . 
You should be more careful not to offend people , and you should send out medicines as the others do . 
I am sure you began well , and you got several good houses . 
It cannot answer to be eccentric you should think what will be generally liked , said Rosamond , in a decided little tone of admonition . 
Lydgate's anger rose he was prepared to be indulgent towards feminine weakness , but not towards feminine dictation . 
The shallowness of a waternixie's soul may have a charm until she becomes didactic . 
But he controlled himself , and only said , with a touch of despotic firmness What I am to do in my practice , Rosy , it is for me to judge . 
That is not the question between us . 
It was understood from the beginning that my services would be gratuitous . 
That , again , need not enter into our discussion . 
I have pointed out what is the only probability , said Lydgate , impatiently . 
Then checking himself , he went on more quietly I think I see one resource which would free us from a good deal of the present difficulty . 
I hear that young Ned Plymdale is going to be married to Miss Sophy Toller . 
They are rich , and it is not often that a good house is vacant in Middlemarch . 
I feel sure that they would be glad to take this house from us with most of our furniture , and they would be willing to pay handsomely for the lease . 
I can employ Trumbull to speak to Plymdale about it . 
Lydgate was wretched shaken with anger and yet feeling that it would be unmanly to vent the anger just now . 
I am very sorry , Rosamond I know this is painful . 
I thought , at least , when I had borne to send the plate back and have that man taking an inventory of the furniture I should have thought THAT would suffice . 
I explained it to you at the time , dear . 
That was only a security and behind that Security there is a debt . 
And that debt must be paid within the next few months , else we shall have our furniture sold . 
We might take a smaller house Trumbull , I know , has a very decent one to let at thirty pounds a year , and this is ninety . 
Lydgate uttered this speech in the curt hammering way with which we usually try to nail down a vague mind to imperative facts . 
Tears rolled silently down Rosamond's cheeks she just pressed her handkerchief against them , and stood looking al the large vase on the mantel piece . 
It was a moment of more intense bitterness than she had ever felt before . 
At last she said , without hurry and with careful emphasis I never could have believed that you would like to act in that way . 
Like it ? burst out Lydgate , rising from his chair , thrusting his hands in his pockets and stalking away from the hearth it's not a question of liking . 
Of course , I don't like it it's the only thing I can do . 
He wheeled round there , and turned towards her . 
I should have thought there were many other means than that , said Rosamond . 
Let us have a sale and leave Middlemarch altogether . 
If we are to be in that position it will be entirely your own doing , Tertius , said Rosamond , turning round to speak with the fullest conviction . 
You will not behave as you ought to do to your own family . 
But rather than that , you like giving up our house and furniture to Mr. Ned Plymdale . 
There was something like fierceness in Lydgate's eyes , as he answered with new violence , Well , then , if you will have it so , I do like it . 
I admit that I like it better than making a fool of myself by going to beg where it's of no use . 
Understand then , that it is what I LIKE TO DO . 
There was a tone in the last sentence which was equivalent to the clutch of his strong hand on Rosamond's delicate arm . 
But for all that , his will was not a whit stronger than hers . 
She immediately walked out of the room in silence , but with an intense determination to hinder what Lydgate liked to do . 
It was as if a fracture in delicate crystal had begun , and he was afraid of any movement that might mate it fatal . 
His marriage would be a mere piece of bitter irony if they could not go on loving each other . 
But the real wife had not only her claims , she had still a hold on his heart , and it was his intense desire that the hold should remain strong . 
In marriage , the certainty , She will never love me much , is easier to bear than the fear , I shall love her no more . 
Hence , after that outburst , his inward effort was entirely to excuse her , and to blame the hard circumstances which were partly his fault . 
But this was something quite distinct from loving HIM . 
Lydgate would not have chosen soon to recur to the plan of parting with the house he was resolved to carry it out , and say as little more about it as possible . 
No time must be lost . 
He took Rosamond's question as a sign that she withdrew her inward opposition , and kissed her head caressingly when he got up to go away . 
As soon as it was late enough to make a call , Rosamond went to Mrs. Plymdale , Mr. Ned's mother , and entered with pretty congratulations into the of the coming marriage . 
Yes , Ned is most happy , I must say . 
And Sophy Toller is all I could desire in a daughter in law . 
Of course her father is able to do something handsome for her that is only what would be expected with a brewery like his . 
And the connection is everything we should desire . 
But that is not what I look at . 
She is such a very nice girl no airs , no pretensions , though on a level with the first . 
I don't mean with the titled aristocracy . 
I see very little good in people aiming out of their own sphere . 
I mean that Sophy is equal to the best in the town , and she is contented with that . 
I have always thought her very agreeable , said Rosamond . 
And such particular people as the Tollers are , they might have objected because some of our friends are not theirs . 
It is well known that your aunt Bulstrode and I have been intimate from our youth , and Mr. Plymdale has been always on Mr. Bulstrode's side . 
And I myself prefer serious opinions . 
But the Tollers have welcomed Ned all the same . 
I am sure he is a very deserving , well principled young man , said Rosamond , with a neat air of patronage in return for Mrs. Plymdale's wholesome corrections . 
But I am thankful he has not . 
It is a poor preparation both for here and Hereafter . 
Oh dear , yes appearances have very little to do with happiness , said Rosamond . 
I think there is every prospect of their being a happy couple . 
What house will they take ? Oh , as for that , they must put up with what they can get . 
They have been looking at the house in St . 
Peter's Place , next to Mr. Hackbutt's it belongs to him , and he is putting it nicely in repair . 
I suppose they are not likely to hear of a better . 
Indeed , I think Ned will decide the matter to day . 
I should think it is a nice house I like St . 
Well , it is near the Church , and a genteel situation . 
But the windows are narrow , and it is all ups and downs . 
Oh no I hear so little of those things . 
She returned home by Mr. Borthrop Trumbull's office , meaning to call there . 
It was the first time in her life that Rosamond had thought of doing anything in the form of business , but she felt equal to the occasion . 
That she should be obliged to do what she intensely disliked , was an idea which turned her quiet tenacity into active invention . 
He begged her to do him the honor to take a seat , and stood before her trimming and comporting himself with an eager solicitude , which was chiefly benevolent . 
Rosamond's first question was , whether her husband had called on Mr. Trumbull that morning , to speak about disposing of their house . 
Yes , ma'am , yes , he did he did so , said the good auctioneer , trying to throw something soothing into his iteration . 
I was about to fulfil his order , if possible , this afternoon . 
He wished me not to procrastinate . 
I called to tell you not to go any further , Mr. Trumbull and I beg of you not to mention what has been said on the subject . 
Will you oblige me ? Certainly I will , Mrs. Lydgate , certainly . 
Confidence is sacred with me on business or any other topic . 
I am then to consider the commission withdrawn ? said Mr. Trumbull , adjusting the long ends of his blue cravat with both hands , and looking at Rosamond deferentially . 
Yes , if you please . 
I find that Mr. Ned Plymdale has taken a house the one in St . 
Peter's Place next to Mr. Hackbutt's . 
Mr. Lydgate would be annoyed that his orders should be fulfilled uselessly . 
And besides that , there are other circumstances which render the proposal unnecessary . 
Very good , Mrs. Lydgate , very good . 
I am at your commands , whenever you require any service of me , said Mr. Trumbull , who felt pleasure in conjecturing that some new resources had been opened . 
Rely on me , I beg . 
The affair shall go no further . 
If I can get my mind clear again , I shall do . 
Lydgate , startled and jarred , looked up in silence for a moment , like a man who has been disturbed in his sleep . 
Peter's Place , next to Mr. Hackbutt's . 
He preferred not looking at her and not speaking , until he had got over the first spasm of vexation . 
After all , he said in his bitterness , what can a woman care about so much as house and furniture ? a husband without them is an absurdity . 
I told Trumbull to be on the look out if he failed with Plymdale . 
After a pause , she said How much money is it that those disagreeable people want ? What disagreeable people ? Those who took the list and the others . 
I could have paid off Dover , and given enough on account to the others to make them wait patiently , if we contracted our expenses . 
It angered him to perceive that Rosamond's mind was wandering over impracticable wishes instead of facing possible efforts . 
Why should you not mention the sum ? said Rosamond , with a mild indication that she did not like his manners . 
Well , said Lydgate in a guessing tone , it would take at least a thousand to set me at ease . 
But , he added , incisively , I have to consider what I shall do without it , not with it . 
But the next day she carried out her plan of writing to Sir Godwin Lydgate . 
But there had been total silence . 
The Captain evidently was not a great penman , and Rosamond reflected that the sisters might have been abroad . 
Rosamond was naively convinced of what an old gentleman ought to do to prevent her from suffering annoyance . 
Such was the force of Poor Rosamond's tactics now she applied them to affairs . 
This had happened before the party on New Year's Day , and no answer had yet come from Sir Godwin . 
But on the morning of that day Lydgate had to learn that Rosamond had revoked his order to Borthrop Trumbull . 
advertise the house in the Pioneer' and the Trumpet . 
If the thing were advertised , some one might be inclined to take it who would not otherwise have thought of a change . 
In these country places many people go on in their old houses when their families are too large for them , for want of knowing where they can find another . 
And Trumbull seems to have got no bite at all . 
Rosamond knew that the inevitable moment was come . 
I ordered Trumbull not to inquire further , she said , with a careful calmness which was evidently defensive . 
Lydgate stared at her in mute amazement . 
With such fibres still astir in him , the shock he received could not at once be distinctly anger it was confused pain . 
I think that was reason enough . 
She replied I think I had a perfect right to speak on a subject which concerns me at least as much as you . 
Clearly you had a right to speak , but only to me . 
You had no right to contradict my orders secretly , and treat me as if I were a fool , said Lydgate , in the same tone as before . 
I remembered what you said . 
You spoke just as violently as you do now . 
But that does not alter my opinion that you ought to try every other means rather than take a step which is so painful to me . 
And as to advertising the house , I think it would be perfectly degrading to you . 
And suppose I disregard your opinion as you disregard mine ? You can do so , of course . 
But I think you ought to have told me before we were married that you would place me in the worst position , rather than give up your own will . 
Lydgate did not speak , but tossed his head on one side , and twitched the corners of his mouth in despair . 
There was a conflux of emotions and thoughts in him that would not let him either give thorough way to his anger or persevere with simple rigidity of resolve . 
Rosamond took advantage of his silence . 
When we were married everyone felt that your position was very high . 
I could not have imagined then that you would want to sell our furniture , and take a house in Bride Street , where the rooms are like cages . 
If we are to live in that way let us at least leave Middlemarch . 
Many persons must have been in debt in the same way , but if they are respectable , people trust them . 
As to saying that he was master , it was not the fact . 
The very resolution to which he had wrought himself by dint of logic and honorable pride was beginning to relax under her torpedo contact . 
He swallowed half his cup of coffee , and then rose to go . 
I may at least request that you will not go to Trumbull at present until it has been seen that there are no other means , said Rosamond . 
Although she was not subject to much fear , she felt it safer not to betray that she had written to Sir Godwin . 
Promise me that you will not go to him for a few weeks , or without telling me . 
Lydgate gave a short laugh . 
You remember that we are going to dine at papa's , said Rosamond , wishing that he should turn and make a more thorough concession to her . 
But he only said Oh yes , impatiently , and went away . 
She held it to be very odious in him that he did not think the painful propositions he had had to make to her were enough , without showing so unpleasant a temper . 
And when she put the moderate request that he would defer going to Trumbull again , it was cruel in him not to assure her of what he meant to do . 
Poor Rosamond for months had begun to associate her husband with feelings of disappointment , and the terribly inflexible relation of marriage had lost its charm of encouraging delightful dreams . 
It had freed her from the disagreeables of her father's house , but it had not given her everything that she had wished and hoped . 
But even if his resolves had forced the two images into combination , the useful preliminaries to that hard change were not visibly within reach . 
And though he had not given the promise which his wife had asked for , he did not go again to Trumbull . 
He even began to think of taking a rapid journey to the North and seeing Sir Godwin . 
He had once believed that nothing would urge him into making an application for money to his uncle , but he had not then known the full pressure of alternatives yet more disagreeable . 
One of us two must bowen douteless , And , sith a man is more reasonable Than woman is , ye men moste be suffrable . 
Lydgate , in total ignorance of her expectations , was seeing the bills come in , and feeling that Dover's use of his advantage over other creditors was imminent . 
A slice of the railway would enable him to manage the whole journey and back in four days . 
But one morning after Lydgate had gone out , a letter came addressed to him , which Rosamond saw clearly to be from Sir Godwin . 
She was full of hope . 
Ah ? he said , not taking off his hat , but just turning her round within his arm to walk towards the spot where the letter lay . 
My uncle Godwin ! he exclaimed , while Rosamond reseated herself , and watched him as he opened the letter . 
She had expected him to be surprised . 
He was afraid of saying something irremediably cruel . 
Rosamond too had changed color as she read . 
The letter ran in this way DEAR TERTIUS , Don't set your wife to write to me when you have anything to ask . 
It is a roundabout wheedling sort of thing which I should not have credited you with . 
I never choose to write to a woman on matters of business . 
As to my supplying you with a thousand pounds , or only half that sum , I can do nothing of the sort . 
My own family drains me to the last penny . 
With two younger sons and three daughters , I am not likely to have cash to spare . 
You seem to have got through your own money pretty quickly , and to have made a mess where you are the sooner you go somewhere else the better . 
But I have nothing to do with men of your profession , and can't help you there . 
I did the best I could for you as guardian , and let you have your own way in taking to medicine . 
You might have gone into the army or the Church . 
Your money would have held out for that , and there would have been a surer ladder before you . 
Your affectionate uncle , GODWIN LYDGATE . 
She did not look at him , and made no reply . 
I had nearly resolved on going to Quallingham . 
It would have cost me pain enough to do it , yet it might have been of some use . 
But it has been of no use for me to think of anything . 
You have always been counteracting me secretly . 
You delude me with a false assent , and then I am at the mercy of your devices . 
If you mean to resist every wish I express , say so and defy me . 
I shall at least know what I am doing then . 
It is a terrible moment in young lives when the closeness of love's bond has turned to this power of galling . 
In spite of Rosamond's self control a tear fell silently and rolled over her lips . 
She still said nothing but under that quietude was hidden an intense effect she was in such entire disgust with her husband that she wished she had never seen him . 
Even her father was unkind , and might have done more for them . 
He needed to recover the full sense that he was in the right by moderating his words . 
In that way I can never know what I have to trust to . 
There would be some hope for us if you would admit this . 
Am I such an unreasonable , furious brute ? Why should you not be open with me ? Still silence . 
I cannot possibly make admissions or promises in answer to such words as you have used towards me . 
I have not been accustomed to language of that kind . 
You have spoken of my secret meddling , and my interfering ignorance , and my false assent . 
I have never expressed myself in that way to you , and I think that you ought to apologize . 
You spoke of its being impossible to live with me . 
Certainly you have not made my life pleasant to me of late . 
I think it was to be expected that I should try to avert some of the hardships which our marriage has brought on me . 
Another tear fell as Rosamond ceased speaking , and she pressed it away as quietly as the first . 
Lydgate flung himself into a chair , feeling checkmated . 
Rosamond had the double purchase over him of insensibility to the point of justice in his reproach , and of sensibility to the undeniable hardships now present in her married life . 
We are not obliged to identify our own acts according to a strict classification , any more than the materials of our grocery and clothes . 
Rosamond felt that she was aggrieved , and that this was what Lydgate had to recognize . 
As for him , the need of accommodating himself to her nature , which was inflexible in proportion to its negations , held him as with pincers . 
He had begun to have an alarmed foresight of her irrevocable loss of love for him , and the consequent dreariness of their life . 
The ready fulness of his emotions made this dread alternate quickly with the first violent movements of his anger . 
It would assuredly have been a vain boast in him to say that he was her master . 
You have not made my life pleasant to me of late the hardships which our marriage has brought on me these words were stinging his imagination as a pain makes an exaggerated dream . 
You and I cannot have opposite interests . 
I cannot part my happiness from yours . 
If I am angry with you , it is that you seem not to see how any concealment divides us . 
How could I wish to make anything hard to you either by my words or conduct ? When I hurt you , I hurt part of my own life . 
I should never be angry with you if you would be quite open with me . 
I have only wished to prevent you from hurrying us into wretchedness without any necessity , said Rosamond , the tears coming again from a softened feeling now that her husband had softened . 
It is so very hard to be disgraced here among all the people we know , and to live in such a miserable way . 
I wish I had died with the baby . 
She spoke and wept with that gentleness which makes such words and tears omnipotent over a loving hearted man . 
Lydgate drew his chair near to hers and pressed her delicate head against his cheek with his powerful tender hand . 
Nevertheless she had mastered him . 
'Tis one thing to be tempted , Escalus , Another thing to fall . 
Lydgate certainly had good reason to reflect on the service his practice did him in counteracting his personal cares . 
Mr. Farebrother's suspicion as to the opiate was true , however . 
But he had no hereditary constitutional craving after such transient escapes from the hauntings of misery . 
It was the same with gambling . 
He had looked on at a great deal of gambling in Paris , watching it as if it had been a disease . 
He was no more tempted by such winning than he was by drink . 
He had said to himself that the only winning he cared for must be attained by a conscious process of high , difficult combination tending towards a beneficent result . 
Repugnance would have been surmounted by the immense need to win , if chance would be kind enough to let him . 
The billiard room at the Green Dragon was the constant resort of a certain set , most of whom , like our acquaintance Mr. Bambridge , were regarded as men of pleasure . 
It was here that poor Fred Vincy had made part of his memorable debt , having lost money in betting , and been obliged to borrow of that gay companion . 
One evening , however , he had occasion to seek Mr. Bambridge at that resort . 
To run up to the billiard room , as he was passing , would save time . 
That evening he had the peculiar light in the eyes and the unusual vivacity which had been once noticed in him by Mr. Farebrother . 
Mr. Bambridge had come in , but Lydgate did not notice him . 
He was still winning when two new visitors entered . 
Young Hawley , an accomplished billiard player , brought a cool fresh hand to the cue . 
But Fred Vincy , startled at seeing Lydgate , and astonished to see him betting with an excited air , stood aside , and kept out of the circle round the table . 
Fred had been rewarding resolution by a little laxity of late . 
It was a little too bad , Fred began to think , that he should be kept in the traces with more severity than if he had been a clergyman . 
They had sport , and never learned to write a bookkeeping hand . 
There could be no reason why he should not play at billiards , but he was determined not to bet . 
he had those ten pounds in his mind as a fund from which he might risk something , if there were a chance of a good bet . 
It is in such indefinable movements that action often begins . 
Lydgate , by betting on his own strokes , had won sixteen pounds but young Hawley's arrival had changed the poise of things . 
The defiance was more exciting than the confidence , but it was less sure . 
He continued to bet on his own play , but began often to fail . 
Still he went on , for his mind was as utterly narrowed into that precipitous crevice of play as if he had been the most ignorant lounger there . 
Farebrother has just sent up a message to say that he wants to speak to me . 
I thought you might like to know he was there , if you had anything to say to him . 
Fred had simply snatched up this pretext for speaking , because he could not say , You are losing confoundedly , and are making everybody stare at you you had better come away . 
But inspiration could hardly have served him better . 
Lydgate had not before seen that Fred was present , and his sudden appearance with an announcement of Mr. Farebrother had the effect of a sharp concussion . 
No , no , said Lydgate I have nothing particular to say to him . 
But the game is up I must be going I came in just to see Bambridge . 
Bambridge is over there , but he is making a row I don't think he's ready for business . 
Come down with me to Farebrother . 
I expect he is going to blow me up , and you will shield me , said Fred , with some adroitness . 
Lydgate felt shame , but could not bear to act as if he felt it , by refusing to see Mr. Farebrother and he went down . 
They merely shook hands , however , and spoke of the frost and when all three had turned into the street , the Vicar seemed quite willing to say good by to Lydgate . 
His present purpose was clearly to talk with Fred alone , and he said , kindly , I disturbed you , young gentleman , because I have some pressing business with you . 
Walk with me to St . 
The next thing he said was I thought Lydgate never went to the Green Dragon ? So did I , said Fred . 
But he said that he went to see Bambridge . 
He was not playing , then ? Fred had not meant to tell this , but he was obliged now to say , Yes , he was . 
But I suppose it was an accidental thing . 
I have never seen him there before . 
You have been going often yourself , then , lately ? Oh , about five or six times . 
I think you had some good reason for giving up the habit of going there ? Yes . 
You know all about it , said Fred , not liking to be catechised in this way . 
I made a clean breast to you . 
I suppose that gives me a warrant to speak about the matter now . 
I may take my turn in talking a little about myself ? I am under the deepest obligation to you , Mr. Farebrother , said Fred , in a state of uncomfortable surmise . 
I will not affect to deny that you are under some obligation to me . 
But I am going to confess to you , Fred , that I have been tempted to reverse all that by keeping silence with you just now . 
You can guess the feeling which raised that temptation in me I am sure you know it . 
I am sure you know that the satisfaction of your affections stands in the way of mine . 
Mr. Farebrother seemed to wait for a recognition of the fact and the emotion perceptible in the tones of his fine voice gave solemnity to his words . 
But no feeling could quell Fred's alarm . 
I could not be expected to give her up , he said , after a moment's hesitation it was not a case for any pretence of generosity . 
Clearly not , when her affection met yours . 
But relations of this sort , even when they are of long standing , are always liable to change . 
I can easily conceive such a result , repeated Mr. Farebrother , emphatically . 
There is a companionship of ready sympathy , which might get the advantage even over the longest associations . 
It seemed to Fred that if Mr. Farebrother had had a beak and talons instead of his very capable tongue , his mode of attack could hardly be more cruel . 
He had a horrible conviction that behind all this hypothetic statement there was a knowledge of some actual change in Mary's feeling . 
Of course I know it might easily be all up with me , he said , in a troubled voice . 
So I am that is why we are here . 
But I have had a strong disposition to be otherwise . 
There was a pause , in which Fred was seized by a most uncomfortable chill . 
What was coming next ? He dreaded to hear that something had been said to Mary he felt as if he were listening to a threat rather than a warning . 
When the Vicar began again there was a change in his tone like the encouraging transition to a major key . 
But I had once meant better than that , and I am come back to my old intention . 
I thought that I could hardly SECURE MYSELF in it better , Fred , than by telling you just what had gone on in me . 
There was a drop in the Vicar's voice when he spoke the last words He paused they were standing on a patch of green where the road diverged towards St . 
Botolph's , and he put out his hand , as if to imply that the conversation was closed . 
Fred was moved quite newly . 
A good degree of that effect was just then present in Fred Vincy . 
I will try to be worthy , he said , breaking off before he could say of you as well as of her . 
And meanwhile Mr. Farebrother had gathered the impulse to say something more . 
You must not imagine that I believe there is at present any decline in her preference of you , Fred . 
Set your heart at rest , that if you keep right , other things will keep right . 
I shall never forget what you have done , Fred answered . 
I can't say anything that seems worth saying only I will try that your goodness shall not be thrown away . 
Good by , and God bless you . 
In that way they parted . 
But both of them walked about a long while before they went out of the starlight . 
Happily Lydgate had ended by losing in the billiard room , and brought away no encouragement to make a raid on luck . 
That alternative was to apply to Mr. Bulstrode . 
He said , let Lydgate ask Bulstrode they have always been hand and glove . 
He deferred the intention from day to day , his habit of acting on his conclusions being made infirm by his repugnance to every possible conclusion and its consequent act . 
He saw Mr. Bulstrode often , but he did not try to use any occasion for his private purpose . 
Still the days passed and no letter was written , no special interview sought . 
In his shrinking from the humiliation of a dependent attitude towards Bulstrode , he began to familiarize his imagination with another step even more unlike his remembered self . 
For when a man is at the foot of the hill in his fortunes , he may stay a long while there in spite of professional accomplishment . 
In the British climate there is no incompatibility between scientific insight and furnished lodgings the incompatibility is chiefly between scientific ambition and a wife who objects to that kind of residence . 
But in the midst of his hesitation , opportunity came to decide him . 
A note from Mr. Bulstrode requested Lydgate to call on him at the Bank . 
He wanted to consult Lydgate without delay on that particular morning , although he had nothing to tell beyond what he had told before . 
He had been insisting that it would be well for Mr. Bulstrode to relax his attention to business . 
I am naturally very strong yet I have been thoroughly shaken lately by an accumulation of trouble . 
I presume that a constitution in the susceptible state in which mine at present is , would be especially liable to fall a victim to cholera , if it visited our district . 
But his mind had taken up its long prepared movement towards getting help , and was not yet arrested . 
Truly , said Mr. Bulstrode , with some coldness . 
I contemplate at least a temporary withdrawal from the management of much business , whether benevolent or commercial . 
Also I think of changing my residence for a time probably I shall close or let The Shrubs , and take some place near the coast under advice of course as to salubrity . 
I have for some time felt that I should open this subject with you in relation to our Hospital , continued Bulstrode . 
Lydgate's thought , when Bulstrode paused according to his wont , was , He has perhaps been losing a good deal of money . 
This was the most plausible explanation of a speech which had caused rather a startling change in his expectations . 
He said in reply The loss to the Hospital can hardly be made up , I fear . 
Hardly , returned Bulstrode , in the same deliberate , silvery tone except by some changes of plan . 
The only person who may be certainly counted on as willing to increase her contributions is Mrs. Casaubon . 
Another pause , but Lydgate did not speak . 
The change I mean is an amalgamation with the Infirmary , so that the New Hospital shall be regarded as a special addition to the elder institution , having the same directing board . 
It will be necessary , also , that the medical management of the two shall be combined . 
In this way any difficulty as to the adequate maintenance of our new establishment will be removed the benevolent interests of the town will cease to be divided . 
Mr. Bulstrode had lowered his eyes from Lydgate's face to the buttons of his coat as he again paused . 
No doubt that is a good device as to ways and means , said Lydgate , with an edge of irony in his tone . 
But since providential indications demand a renunciation from me , I renounce . 
Bulstrode showed a rather exasperating ability in this conversation . 
She is , you are aware , a woman of most munificent disposition , and happily in possession not I presume of great wealth , but of funds which she can well spare . 
Lydgate was ready to say , If Mrs. Casaubon would take your place , there would be gain , instead of loss . 
But there was still a weight on his mind which arrested this cheerful candor . 
He replied , I suppose , then , that I may enter into the subject with Mrs. Casaubon . 
Precisely that is what she expressly desires . 
Her decision , she says , will much depend on what you can tell her . 
But not at present she is , I believe , just setting out on a journey . 
I have her letter here , said Mr. Bulstrode , drawing it out , and reading from it . 
I am immediately otherwise engaged , she says . 
Thus , Mr. Lydgate , there is no haste necessary in this matter but I wished to apprise you beforehand of what may possibly occur . 
Mr. Bulstrode returned the letter to his side pocket , and changed his attitude as if his business were closed . 
The highest object to me is my profession , and I had identified the Hospital with the best use I can at present make of my profession . 
But the best use is not always the same with monetary success . 
Everything which has made the Hospital unpopular has helped with other causes I think they are all connected with my professional zeal to make me unpopular as a practitioner . 
I get chiefly patients who can't pay me . 
I should like them best , if I had nobody to pay on my own side . 
Lydgate waited a little , but Bulstrode only bowed , looking at him fixedly , and he went on with the same interrupted enunciation as if he were biting an objectional leek . 
I have slipped into money difficulties which I can see no way out of , unless some one who trusts me and my future will advance me a sum without other security . 
I had very little fortune left when I came here . 
I have no prospects of money from my own family . 
My expenses , in consequence of my marriage , have been very much greater than I had expected . 
The result at this moment is that it would take a thousand pounds to clear me . 
I find that it is out of the question that my wife's father should make such an advance . 
That is why I mention my position to to the only other man who may be held to have some personal connection with my prosperity or ruin . 
Lydgate hated to hear himself . 
But he had spoken now , and had spoken with unmistakable directness . 
Mr. Bulstrode replied without haste , but also without hesitation . 
I am grieved , though , I confess , not surprised by this information , Mr. Lydgate . 
My advice to you , Mr. Lydgate , would be , that instead of involving yourself in further obligations , and continuing a doubtful struggle , you should simply become a bankrupt . 
That would not improve my prospect , said Lydgate , rising and speaking bitterly , even if it were a more agreeable thing in itself . 
It is always a trial , said Mr. Bulstrode but trial , my dear sir , is our portion here , and is a needed corrective . 
I recommend you to weigh the advice I have given . 
Thank you , said Lydgate , not quite knowing what he said . 
I have occupied you too long . 
His certainty that Raffles , unless he were dead , would return to Middlemarch before long , had been justified . 
On Christmas Eve he had reappeared at The Shrubs . 
He insisted on staying in the house , and Bulstrode , weighing two sets of evils , felt that this was at least not a worse alternative than his going into the town . 
There was a cunning calculation under this noisy joking a cool resolve to extract something the handsomer from Bulstrode as payment for release from this new application of torture . 
But his cunning had a little overcast its mark . 
Bulstrode was indeed more tortured than the coarse fibre of Raffles could enable him to imagine . 
He would himself drive the unfortunate being away the next morning . 
In this way Raffles had pushed the torture too far , and produced an effect which had not been in his plan . 
By showing himself hopelessly unmanageable he had made Bulstrode feel that a strong defiance was the only resource left . 
After taking Raffles to bed that night the banker ordered his closed carriage to be ready at half past seven the next morning . 
For Bulstrode shrank from a direct lie with an intensity disproportionate to the number of his more indirect misdeeds . 
And it is only what we are vividly conscious of that we can vividly imagine to be seen by Omniscience . 
Bulstrode carried his candle to the bedside of Raffles , who was apparently in a painful dream . 
But he made no further noise , and Bulstrode , setting down the candle , awaited his recovery . 
Raffles was about to speak , but Bulstrode anticipated him imperiously with the words , Be silent , sir , and hear what I have to say . 
Nobody will pay you well for blasting my name I know the worst you can do against me , and I shall brave it if you dare to thrust yourself upon me again . 
Various motives urged Bulstrode to this open handedness , but he did not himself inquire closely into all of them . 
As he had stood watching Raffles in his uneasy sleep , it had certainly entered his mind that the man had been much shattered since the first gift of two hundred pounds . 
But when , freed from his repulsive presence , Bulstrode returned to his quiet home , he brought with him no confidence that he had secured more than a respite . 
Foreseeing , to men of Bulstrode's anxious temperament , is often worse than seeing and his imagination continually heightened the anguish of an imminent disgrace . 
Yes , imminent for if his defiance of Raffles did not keep the man away and though he prayed for this result he hardly hoped for it the disgrace was certain . 
That recoil had at last urged him to make preparations for quitting Middlemarch . 
To leave the place finally would , he knew , be extremely painful to his wife , and on other grounds he would have preferred to stay where he had struck root . 
This was the experience which had determined his conversation with Lydgate . 
But at this time his arrangements had most of them gone no farther than a stage at which he could recall them if they proved to be unnecessary . 
Like every one else who had business of that sort , he wanted to get the agent who was more anxious for his employer's interests than his own . 
May I trust to you to find me a tenant on these terms , Mr. Garth ? said Bulstrode . 
I'll see how I can make it out . 
But on quitting Bulstrode after that conversation , a very alluring idea occurred to him about this said letting of Stone Court . 
He mentioned his notion to Mrs. Garth with such evident delight that she could not bear to chill his pleasure by expressing her constant fear of his undertaking too much . 
The lad would be as happy as two , he said , throwing himself back in his chair , and looking radiant , if I could tell him it was all settled . 
Think Susan ! His mind had been running on that place for years before old Featherstone died . 
And it would be as pretty a turn of things as could be that he should hold the place in a good industrious way after all by his taking to business . 
For it's likely enough Bulstrode might let him go on , and gradually buy the stock . 
He hasn't made up his mind , I can see , whether or not he shall settle somewhere else as a lasting thing . 
I never was better pleased with a notion in my life . 
And then the children might be married by and by , Susan . 
And as to marriage , Caleb , we old people need not help to hasten it . 
Oh , I don't know , said Caleb , swinging his head aside . 
Marriage is a taming thing . 
Fred would want less of my bit and bridle . 
However , I shall say nothing till I know the ground I'm treading on . 
I shall speak to Bulstrode again . 
He took his earliest opportunity of doing so . 
Mrs. Bulstrode had then said for the first time , I think you are always a little hard towards my family , Nicholas . 
And I am sure I have no reason to deny any of my relatives . 
Too worldly they may be , but no one ever had to say that they were not respectable . 
My dear Harriet , said Mr. Bulstrode , wincing under his wife's eyes , which were filling with tears , I have supplied your brother with a great deal of capital . 
I cannot be expected to take care of his married children . 
That seemed to be true , and Mrs. Bulstrode's remonstrance subsided into pity for poor Rosamond , whose extravagant education she had always foreseen the fruits of . 
At present he had merely mentioned to her that he thought of shutting up The Shrubs for a few months , and taking a house on the Southern Coast . 
But suppose the whole scheme should turn out to be a castle in the air ? said Mrs. Garth . 
Well , well , replied Caleb the castle will tumble about nobody's head . 
If thou hast heard a word , let it die with thee . 
By all means , said Bulstrode and Caleb entered . 
Pray sit down , Mr. Garth , continued the banker , in his suavest tone . 
I am glad that you arrived just in time to find me here . 
I know you count your minutes . 
Oh , said Caleb , gently , with a slow swing of his head on one side , as he seated himself and laid his hat on the floor . 
When he spoke again , however , it was to say , in rather a subdued voice I have just come away from Stone Court , Mr. Bulstrode . 
You found nothing wrong there , I hope , said the banker I was there myself yesterday . 
Abel has done well with the lambs this year . 
Why , yes , said Caleb , looking up gravely , there is something wrong a stranger , who is very ill , I think . 
He wants a doctor , and I came to tell you of that . 
He saw the shock of his words passing through Bulstrode's frame . 
On this subject the banker had thought that his fears were too constantly on the watch to be taken by surprise but he had been mistaken . 
Poor wretch ! he said in a compassionate tone , though his lips trembled a little . 
Do you know how he came there ? I took him myself , said Caleb , quietly took him up in my gig . 
He had got down from the coach , and was walking a little beyond the turning from the toll house , and I overtook him . 
He remembered seeing me with you once before , at Stone Court , and he asked me to take him on . 
I saw he was ill it seemed to me the right thing to do , to carry him under shelter . 
And now I think you should lose no time in getting advice for him . 
Caleb took up his hat from the floor as he ended , and rose slowly from his seat . 
Certainly , said Bulstrode , whose mind was very active at this moment . 
Perhaps you will yourself oblige me , Mr. Garth , by calling at Mr. Lydgate's as you pass or stay ! he may at this hour probably be at the Hospital . 
I will first send my man on the horse there with a note this instant , and then I will myself ride to Stone Court . 
Bulstrode quickly wrote a note , and went out himself to give the commission to his man . 
When he returned , Caleb was standing as before with one hand on the back of the chair , holding his hat with the other . 
In Bulstrode's mind the dominant thought was , Perhaps Raffles only spoke to Garth of his illness . 
Garth may wonder , as he must have done before , at this disreputable fellow's claiming intimacy with me but he will know nothing . 
And he is friendly to me I can be of use to him . 
He longed for some confirmation of this hopeful conjecture , but to have asked any question as to what Raffles had said or done would have been to betray fear . 
I am exceedingly obliged to you , Mr. Garth , he said , in his usual tone of politeness . 
My servant will be back in a few minutes , and I shall then go myself to see what can be done for this unfortunate man . 
Perhaps you had some other business with me ? If so , pray be seated . 
Thank you , said Caleb , making a slight gesture with his right hand to waive the invitation . 
I wish to say , Mr. Bulstrode , that I must request you to put your business into some other hands than mine . 
I am obliged to you for your handsome way of meeting me about the letting of Stone Court , and all other business . 
But I must give it up . 
A sharp certainty entered like a stab into Bulstrode's soul . 
This is sudden , Mr. Garth , was all he could say at first . 
It is , said Caleb but it is quite fixed . 
I must give it up . 
Caleb felt a deep pity for him , but he could have used no pretexts to account for his resolve , even if they would have been of any use . 
You have been led to this , I apprehend , by some slanders concerning me uttered by that unhappy creature , said Bulstrode , anxious now to know the utmost . 
I can't deny that I act upon what I heard from him . 
You are a conscientious man , Mr. Garth a man , I trust , who feels himself accountable to God . 
You would not wish to injure me by being too ready to believe a slander , said Bulstrode , casting about for pleas that might be adapted to his hearer's mind . 
That is a poor reason for giving up a connection which I think I may say will be mutually beneficial . 
I would injure no man if I could help it , said Caleb even if I thought God winked at it . 
I hope I should have a feeling for my fellow creature . 
But , sir I am obliged to believe that this Raffles has told me the truth . 
And I can't be happy in working with you , or profiting by you . 
I must beg you to seek another agent . 
Very well , Mr. Garth . 
But I must at least claim to know the worst that he has told you . 
That's needless , said Caleb , waving his hand , bowing his head slightly , and not swerving from the tone which had in it the merciful intention to spare this pitiable man . 
What he has said to me will never pass from my lips , unless something now unknown forces it from me . 
But you do you do make it harder to me , said Bulstrode constrained into a genuine , pleading cry . 
You make it harder to me by turning your back on me . 
That I'm forced to do , said Caleb , still more gently , lifting up his hand . 
I don't judge you and say , he is wicked , and I am righteous . 
A man may do wrong , and his will may rise clear out of it , though he can't get his life clear . 
If it is so with you , well , I'm very sorry for you . 
But I have that feeling inside me , that I can't go on working with you . 
That's all , Mr. Bulstrode . 
Everything else is buried , so far as my will goes . 
And I wish you good day . 
One moment , Mr. Garth ! said Bulstrode , hurriedly . 
Such tales as that will never tempt my tongue . 
Excuse me I am agitated I am the victim of this abandoned man . 
Stop a bit ! you have got to consider whether you didn't help to make him worse , when you profited by his vices . 
No , said Caleb , lifting his hand deprecatingly I am ready to believe better , when better is proved . 
I rob you of no good chance . 
As to speaking , I hold it a crime to expose a man's sin unless I'm clear it must be done to save the innocent . 
That is my way of thinking , Mr. Bulstrode , and what I say , I've no need to swear . 
I wish you good day . 
Oh , said Caleb , bowing his head and waving his hand gravely . 
And Mrs. Garth knew that this was a sign of his not intending to speak further on the subject . 
As for Bulstrode , he had almost immediately mounted his horse and set off for Stone Court , being anxious to arrive there before Lydgate . 
His mind was crowded with images and conjectures , which were a language to his hopes and fears , just as we hear tones from the vibrations which shake our whole system . 
It seemed to him a sort of earnest that Providence intended his rescue from worse consequences the way being thus left open for the hope of secrecy . 
That Raffles should be afflicted with illness , that he should have been led to Stone Court rather than elsewhere Bulstrode's heart fluttered at the vision of probabilities which these events conjured up . 
If it should turn out that he was freed from all danger of disgrace if he could breathe in perfect liberty his life should be more consecrated than it had ever been before . 
He mentally lifted up this vow as if it would urge the result he longed for he tried to believe in the potency of that prayerful resolution its potency to determine death . 
He knew that he ought to say , Thy will be done and he said it often . 
But the intense desire remained that the will of God might be the death of that hated man . 
Yet when he arrived at Stone Court he could not see the change in Raffles without a shock . 
But for his pallor and feebleness , Bulstrode would have called the change in him entirely mental . 
He had only come here because he was ill and somebody was hunting him somebody was after him he had told nobody anything , he had kept his mouth shut . 
On that side it might be concluded that there had been no betrayal . 
In less than an hour Lydgate arrived . 
Afterwards he went to America , and returned I fear to an idle dissolute life . 
Being destitute , he has a claim on me . 
He was slightly connected with Rigg , the former owner of this place , and in consequence found his way here . 
I believe he is seriously ill apparently his mind is affected . 
I feel bound to do the utmost for him . 
Raffles , John Raffles , said Bulstrode , who hoped that whatever became of Raffles , Lydgate would never know any more of him . 
It is a serious case , I apprehend , said the banker , before Lydgate began to speak . 
No and yes , said Lydgate , half dubiously . 
It is difficult to decide as to the possible effect of long standing complications but the man had a robust constitution to begin with . 
I should not expect this attack to be fatal , though of course the system is in a ticklish state . 
He should be well watched and attended to . 
I will remain here myself , said Bulstrode . 
Mrs. Abel and her husband are inexperienced . 
I can easily remain here for the night , if you will oblige me by taking a note for Mrs. Bulstrode . 
I should think that is hardly necessary , said Lydgate . 
He seems tame and terrified enough . 
He might become more unmanageable . 
Mrs. Abel and her husband can relieve or aid me , if necessary . 
Then I need give my directions only to you , said Lydgate , not feeling surprised at a little peculiarity in Bulstrode . 
You think , then , that the case is hopeful ? said Bulstrode , when Lydgate had ended giving his orders . 
Unless there turn out to be further complications , such as I have not at present detected yes , said Lydgate . 
He may pass on to a worse stage but I should not wonder if ho got better in a few days , by adhering to the treatment I have prescribed . 
Remember , if he calls for liquors of any sort , not to give them to him . 
In my opinion , men in his condition are oftener killed by treatment than by the disease . 
Still , new symptoms may arise . 
I shall come again to morrow morning . 
Ware's abundant experience in America , as to the right way of treating cases of alcoholic poisoning such as this . 
The man is in a diseased state , he thought , but there's a good deal of wear in him still . 
I suppose he is an object of charity to Bulstrode . 
It is curious what patches of hardness and tenderness lie side by side in men's dispositions . 
I suppose he has some test by which he finds out whom Heaven cares for he has made up his mind that it doesn't care for me . 
This streak of bitterness came from a plenteous source , and kept widening in the current of his thought as he neared Lowick Gate . 
It was more bearable to do without tenderness for himself than to see that his own tenderness could make no amends for the lack of other things to her . 
It would be well not to lose time in preparing her for the worst . 
But his dinner waited long for him before he was able to eat it . 
He went up and found her stretched on the bed pale and silent , without an answer even in her face to any word or look of his . 
He sat down by the bed and leaning over her said with almost a cry of prayer Forgive me for this misery , my poor Rosamond ! Let us only love one another . 
She looked at him silently , still with the blank despair on her face but then the tears began to fill her blue eyes , and her lip trembled . 
The strong man had had too much to bear that day . 
He let his head fall beside hers and sobbed . 
He did not hinder her from going to her father early in the morning it seemed now that he ought not to hinder her from doing as she pleased . 
In half an hour she came back , and said that papa and mamma wished her to go and stay with them while things were in this miserable state . 
Papa said he could do nothing about the debt if he paid this , there would be half a dozen more . 
She had better come back home again till Lydgate had got a comfortable home for her . 
Do you object , Tertius ? Do as you like , said Lydgate . 
But things are not coming to a crisis immediately . 
I should not go till to morrow , said Rosamond I shall want to pack my clothes . 
Oh , I would wait a little longer than to morrow there is no knowing what may happen , said Lydgate , with bitter irony . 
I may get my neck broken , and that may make things easier to you . 
She thought them totally unwarranted , and the repulsion which this exceptional severity excited in her was in danger of making the more persistent tenderness unacceptable . 
Lydgate said no more , but went out on his rounds . 
He felt bruised and shattered , and there was a dark line under his eyes which Rosamond had not seen before . 
She could not bear to look at him . 
Tertius had a way of taking things which made them a great deal worse for her . 
Our deeds still travel with us from afar , And what we have been makes us what we are . 
There were various bills crammed into his pocketbook , but none of a later date than Christmas at any other place , except one , which bore date that morning . 
Bulstrode gathered a sense of safety from these indications that Raffles had really kept at a distance from Middlemarch since his memorable visit at Christmas . 
He did carry them out faithfully , although Raffles was incessantly asking for brandy , and declaring that he was sinking away that the earth was sinking away from under him . 
He was restless and sleepless , but still quailing and manageable . 
Bulstrode's native imperiousness and strength of determination served him well . 
And in the train of those images came their apology . 
He could not but see the death of Raffles , and see in it his own deliverance . 
What was the removal of this wretched creature ? He was impenitent but were not public criminals impenitent ? yet the law decided on their fate . 
And Bulstrode set himself to keep his intention separate from his desire . 
He inwardly declared that he intended to obey orders . 
Still , he did obey the orders . 
He regretted that he had not at once made even an unreasonable money sacrifice . 
Bat the regret had perhaps come too late . 
It was nearly the middle of the day before Lydgate arrived he had meant to come earlier , but had been detained , he said and his shattered looks were noticed by Balstrode . 
But he immediately threw himself into the consideration of the patient , and inquired strictly into all that had occurred . 
Raffles was worse , would take hardly any food , was persistently wakeful and restlessly raving but still not violent . 
Contrary to Bulstrode's alarmed expectation , he took little notice of Lydgate's presence , and continued to talk or murmur incoherently . 
What do you think of him ? said Bulstrode , in private . 
You are less hopeful ? No I still think he may come round . 
Yes , I think so , said Bulstrode , governing himself and speaking with deliberation . 
Mrs. Bulstrode is advised of the reasons which detain me . 
Mrs. Abel and her husband are not experienced enough to be left quite alone , and this kind of responsibility is scarcely included in their service of me . 
You have some fresh instructions , I presume . 
The chief new instruction that Lydgate had to give was on the administration of extremely moderate doses of opium , in case of the sleeplessness continuing after several hours . 
He had taken the precaution of bringing opium in his pocket , and he gave minute directions to Bulstrode as to the doses , and the point at which they should cease . 
He insisted on the risk of not ceasing and repeated his order that no alcohol should be given . 
From what I see of the case , he ended , narcotism is the only thing I should be much afraid of . 
He may wear through even without much food . 
There's a good deal of strength in him . 
I fear you are harassed . 
Yes , I am , said Lydgate , brusquely , holding his hat , and ready to go . 
Something new , I fear , said Bulstrode , inquiringly . 
No , thank you , said Lydgate , with some hauteur . 
I mentioned to you yesterday what was the state of my affairs . 
There is nothing to add , except that the execution has since then been actually put into my house . 
One can tell a good deal of trouble in a short sentence . 
I will say good morning . 
Stay , Mr. Lydgate , stay , said Bulstrode I have been reconsidering this subject . 
I was yesterday taken by surprise , and saw it superficially . 
Mrs. Bulstrode is anxious for her niece , and I myself should grieve at a calamitous change in your position . 
Claims on me are numerous , but on reconsideration , I esteem it right that I should incur a small sacrifice rather than leave you unaided . 
I could set about economizing in our way of living . 
And by and by my practice might look up . 
If you will wait a moment , Mr. Lydgate , I will draw a cheek to that amount . 
I am aware that help , to be effectual in these cases , should be thorough . 
While Bulstrode wrote , Lydgate turned to the window thinking of his home thinking of his life with its good start saved from frustration , its good purposes still unbroken . 
You can give me a note of hand for this , Mr. Lydgate , said the banker , advancing towards him with the check . 
And by and by , I hope , you may be in circumstances gradually to repay me . 
Meanwhile , I have pleasure in thinking that you will be released from further difficulty . 
I am deeply obliged to you , said Lydgate . 
You have restored to me the prospect of working with some happiness and some chance of good . 
It appeared to him a very natural movement in Bulstrode that he should have reconsidered his refusal it corresponded with the more munificent side of his character . 
The banker felt that he had done something to nullify one cause of uneasiness , and yet he was scarcely the easier . 
A man vows , and yet will not east away the means of breaking his vow . 
At the end of half an hour or more he called Mrs. Abel and told her that he found himself unfit for further watching . 
He must now consign the patient to her care and he proceeded to repeat to her Lydgate's directions as to the quantity of each dose . 
Mrs. Abel had not before known anything of Lydgate's prescriptions she had simply prepared and brought whatever Bulstrode ordered , and had done what he pointed out to her . 
She began now to ask what else she should do besides administering the opium . 
Nothing at present , except the offer of the soup or the soda water you can come to me for further directions . 
Unless there is any important change , I shall not come into the room again to night . 
You will ask your husband for help if necessary . 
I must go to bed early . 
You've much need , sir , I'm sure , said Mrs. Abel , and to take something more strengthening than what you've done . 
Bulstrode went away now without anxiety as to what Raffles might say in his raving , which had taken on a muttering incoherence not likely to create any dangerous belief . 
At any rate he must risk this . 
Then , he wished that he had begged Lydgate to come again that evening . 
Perhaps he might deliver a different opinion , and think that Raffles was getting into a less hopeful state . 
Should he send for Lydgate ? If Raffles were really getting worse , and slowly dying , Bulstrode felt that he could go to bed and sleep in gratitude to Providence . 
What was the use of sending for him ? Bulstrode shrank from that result . 
The thought was , that he had not told Mrs. Abel when the doses of opium must cease . 
He took hold of the candlestick , but stood motionless for a long while . 
She might already have given him more than Lydgate had prescribed . 
But it was excusable in him , that he should forget part of an order , in his present wearied condition . 
He paused in the passage , with his face turned towards Raffles's room , and he could hear him moaning and murmuring . 
He was not asleep , then . 
Who could know that Lydgate's prescription would not be better disobeyed than followed , since there was still no sleep ? He turned into his own room . 
Before he had quite undressed , Mrs. Abel rapped at the door he opened it an inch , so that he could hear her speak low . 
And he says more and more he's sinking down through the earth . 
To her surprise , Mr. Bulstrode did not answer . 
A struggle was going on within him . 
I think he must die for want o' support , if he goes on in that way . 
Else I should give him our own bottle o' rum as we keep by us . 
You will find plenty of brandy there . 
Early in the morning about six Mr. Bulstrode rose and spent some time in prayer . 
He listened in the passage , and could hear hard stertorous breathing . 
Then he walked out in the garden , and looked at the early rime on the grass and fresh spring leaves . 
When he re entered the house , he felt startled at the sight of Mrs. Abel . 
How is your patient asleep , I think ? he said , with an attempt at cheerfulness in his tone . 
He's gone very deep , sir , said Mrs. Abel . 
He went off gradual between three and four o'clock . 
Would you please to go and look at him ? I thought it no harm to leave him . 
My man's gone afield , and the little girl's seeing to the kettles . 
At a glance he knew that Raffles was not in the sleep which brings revival , but in the sleep which streams deeper and deeper into the gulf of death . 
He looked round the room and saw a bottle with some brandy in it , and the almost empty opium phial . 
He put the phial out of sight , and carried the brandy bottle down stairs with him , locking it again in the wine cooler . 
While breakfasting he considered whether he should ride to Middlemarch at once , or wait for Lydgate's arrival . 
He decided to wait , and told Mrs. Abel that she might go about her work he could watch in the bed chamber . 
As he sat there and beheld the enemy of his peace going irrevocably into silence , he felt more at rest than he had done for many months . 
His conscience was soothed by the enfolding wing of secrecy , which seemed just then like an angel sent down for his relief . 
It was his gladness then which impelled him now to be glad that the life was at an end . 
When he entered the room Bulstrode observed a sudden expression in his face , which was not so much surprise as a recognition that he had not judged correctly . 
When did this change begin ? said he , looking at Bulstrode . 
I did not watch by him last night , said Bulstrode . 
I was over worn , and left him under Mrs. Abel's care . 
She said that he sank into sleep between three and four o'clock . 
When I came in before eight he was nearly in this condition . 
Lydgate did not ask another question , but watched in silence until he said , It's all over . 
This morning Lydgate was in a state of recovered hope and freedom . 
He had set out on his work with all his old animation , and felt himself strong enough to bear all the deficiencies of his married life . 
And he was conscious that Bulstrode had been a benefactor to him . 
But he was uneasy about this case . 
He had not expected it to terminate as it had done . 
Yet he hardly knew how to put a question on the subject to Bulstrode without appearing to insult him and if he examined the housekeeper why , the man was dead . 
There seemed to be no use in implying that somebody's ignorance or imprudence had killed him . 
And after all , he himself might be wrong . 
On returning home Lydgate had a visit from Mr. Farebrother . 
Since that evening when Lydgate had come down from the billiard room with Fred Vincy , Mr. Farebrother's thoughts about him had been rather gloomy . 
Playing at the Green Dragon once or oftener might have been a trifle in another man but in Lydgate it was one of several signs that he was getting unlike his former self . 
He was beginning to do things for which he had formerly even an excessive scorn . 
Lydgate had just dismissed a poor patient , in whom he was much interested , and he came forward to put out his hand with an open cheerfulness which surprised Mr. Farebrother . 
Could this too be a proud rejection of sympathy and help ? Never mind the sympathy and help should be offered . 
They were both seated by this time , and Lydgate answered immediately I think I know what you mean . 
But the danger is over the debt is paid . 
I am out of my difficulties now I shall be freed from debts , and able , I hope , to start afresh on a better plan . 
I am very thankful to hear it , said the Vicar , falling back in his chair , and speaking with that low toned quickness which often follows the removal of a load . 
I like that better than all the news in the Times . 
I confess I came to you with a heavy heart . 
Thank you for coming , said Lydgate , cordially . 
I can enjoy the kindness all the more because I am happier . 
I have certainly been a good deal crushed . 
I'm afraid I shall find the bruises still painful by and by , he added , smiling rather sadly but just now I can only feel that the torture screw is off . 
Mr. Farebrother was silent for a moment , and then said earnestly , My dear fellow , let me ask you one question . 
Forgive me if I take a liberty . 
I don't believe you will ask anything that ought to offend me . 
There is no reason why I should not tell you since the fact is so that the person to whom I am indebted is Bulstrode . 
He has made me a very handsome advance a thousand pounds and he can afford to wait for repayment . 
Well , that is generous , said Mr. Farebrother , compelling himself to approve of the man whom he disliked . 
His delicate feeling shrank from dwelling even in his thought on the fact that he had always urged Lydgate to avoid any personal entanglement with Bulstrode . 
I am glad to think that he has acted accordingly . 
Lydgate felt uncomfortable under these kindly suppositions . 
He let the kindly suppositions pass . 
He began , instead of answering , to speak of his projected economies , and of his having come to look at his life from a different point of view . 
I shall set up a surgery , he said . 
I really think I made a mistaken effort in that respect . 
And if Rosamond will not mind , I shall take an apprentice . 
I don't like these things , but if one carries them out faithfully they are not really lowering . 
I have had a severe galling to begin with that will make the small rubs seem easy . 
Poor Lydgate ! the if Rosamond will not mind , which had fallen from him involuntarily as part of his thought , was a significant mark of the yoke he bore . 
'Twas in the Bunch of Grapes , where , indeed , you have a delight to sit , have you not ? Froth . 
I have so because it is an open room , and good for winter . 
Why , very well then I hope here be truths . 
Five days after the death of Raffles , Mr. Bambridge was standing at his leisure under the large archway leading into the yard of the Green Dragon . 
In this case there was no material object to feed upon , but the eye of reason saw a probability of mental sustenance in the shape of gossip . 
When the discourse was at this point of animation , came up Mr. Frank Hawley . 
Mr. Hawley , standing with his back to the street , was fixing a time for looking at the gray and seeing it tried , when a horseman passed slowly by . 
Mr. Hawley gave a careless glance round at Bulstrode's back , but as Bambridge's eyes followed it he made a sarcastic grimace . 
By jingo ! that reminds me , he began , lowering his voice a little , I picked up something else at Bilkley besides your gig horse , Mr. Hawley . 
I picked up a fine story about Bulstrode . 
Do you know how he came by his fortune ? Any gentleman wanting a bit of curious information , I can give it him free of expense . 
If everybody got their deserts , Bulstrode might have had to say his prayers at Botany Bay . 
What do you mean ? said Mr. Hawley , thrusting his hands into his pockets , and pushing a little forward under the archway . 
If Bulstrode should turn out to be a rascal , Frank Hawley had a prophetic soul . 
I had it from a party who was an old chum of Bulstrode's . 
I'll tell you where I first picked him up , said Bambridge , with a sudden gesture of his fore finger . 
He was at Larcher's sale , but I knew nothing of him then he slipped through my fingers was after Bulstrode , no doubt . 
He tells me he can tap Bulstrode to any amount , knows all his secrets . 
However , he blabbed to me at Bilkley he takes a stiff glass . 
A man should know when to pull up . 
Mr. Bambridge made this remark with an air of disgust , satisfied that his own bragging showed a fine sense of the marketable . 
What's the man's name ? Where can he be found ? said Mr. Hawley . 
As to where he is to be found , I left him to it at the Saracen's Head but his name is Raffles . 
Raffles ! exclaimed Mr. Hopkins . 
I furnished his funeral yesterday . 
He was buried at Lowick . 
There was a strong sensation among the listeners . 
The housekeeper said he was a relation of the master's . 
He came there ill on Friday . 
Why , it was on Wednesday I took a glass with him , interposed Bambridge . 
Did any doctor attend him ? said Mr. Hawley Yes . 
Mr. Bulstrode sat up with him one night . 
He died the third morning . 
Go on , Bambridge , said Mr. Hawley , insistently . 
He had not confessed to himself yet that he had done anything in the way of contrivance to this end he had accepted what seemed to have been offered . 
It was impossible to prove that he had done anything which hastened the departure of that man's soul . 
But this gossip about Bulstrode spread through Middlemarch like the smell of fire . 
Caleb was betrayed into no word injurious to Bulstrode beyond the fact which he was forced to admit , that he had given up acting for him within the last week . 
Mr. Hawley was not slow to perceive that there was no handle for the law either in the revelations made by Raffles or in the circumstances of his death . 
He perceived that Mr. Hawley knew nothing at present of the sudden relief from debt , and he himself was careful to glide away from all approaches towards the subject . 
However , there's no knowing what a mixture will turn out beforehand . 
Some sorts of dirt serve to clarify . 
It's just what I should have expected , said Mr. Hawley , mounting his horse . 
Any cursed alien blood , Jew , Corsican , or Gypsy . 
I know he's one of your black sheep , Hawley . 
But he is really a disinterested , unworldly fellow , said Mr. Farebrother , smiling . 
Mr. Hawley rode home without thinking of Lydgate's attendance on Raffles in any other light than as a piece of evidence on the side of Bulstrode . 
For hardly anybody doubted that some scandalous reason or other was at the bottom of Bulstrode's liberality to Lydgate . 
Everybody liked better to conjecture how the thing was , than simply to know it for conjecture soon became more confident than knowledge , and had a more liberal allowance for the incompatible . 
That's odd , said Mr. Limp , a meditative shoemaker , with weak eyes and a piping voice . 
Why , I read in the Trumpet' that was what the Duke of Wellington said when he turned his coat and went over to the Romans . 
Very like , said Mrs. Dollop . 
If one raskill said it , it's more reason why another should . 
Ay , ay , he's a 'complice you can't send out o' the country , said Mr. Crabbe , the glazier , who gathered much news and groped among it dimly . 
But by what I can make out , there's them says Bulstrode was for running away , for fear o' being found out , before now . 
He'll be drove away , whether or no , said Mr. Dill , the barber , who had just dropped in . 
I shaved Fletcher , Hawley's clerk , this morning he's got a bad finger and he says they're all of one mind to get rid of Bulstrode . 
Mr. Thesiger is turned against him , and wants him out o' the parish . 
And there's gentlemen in this town says they'd as soon dine with a fellow from the hulks . 
It'll be a bad thing for the town though , if Bulstrode's money goes out of it , said Mr. Limp , quaveringly . 
Ah , there's better folks spend their money worse , said a firm voiced dyer , whose crimson hands looked out of keeping with his good natured face . 
But he won't keep his money , by what I can make out , said the glazier . 
Don't they say as there's somebody can strip it off him ? By what I can understan' , they could take every penny off him , if they went to lawing . 
No such thing ! said the barber , who felt himself a little above his company at Dollop's , but liked it none the worse . 
Fletcher says it's no such thing . 
Look you there now ! said Mrs. Dollop , indignantly . 
I thank the Lord he took my children to Himself , if that's all the law can do for the motherless . 
Then by that , it's o' no use who your father and mother is . 
But as to listening to what one lawyer says without asking another I wonder at a man o' your cleverness , Mr. Dill . 
If they come to lawing , and it's all true as folks say , there's more to be looked to nor money , said the glazier . 
There's this poor creetur as is dead and gone by what I can make out , he'd seen the day when he was a deal finer gentleman nor Bulstrode . 
Finer gentleman ! I'll warrant him , said Mrs. Dollop and a far personabler man , by what I can hear . 
That was what I said , and Mr. Baldwin can bear me witness . 
And in the rights of it too , said Mr. Crabbe . 
I'll believe you ! said Mrs. Dallop , with a touch of scorn at Mr. Crabbe's apparent dimness . 
Mrs. Dollop looked round with the air of a landlady accustomed to dominate her company . 
Why shouldn't they dig the man up and have the Crowner ? said the dyer . 
It's been done many and many's the time . 
If there's been foul play they might find it out . 
Not they , Mr. Jonas ! said Mrs Dollop , emphatically . 
I know what doctors are . 
They're a deal too cunning to be found out . 
He knows drugs , you may be sure , as you can neither smell nor see , neither before they're swallowed nor after . 
So I'll leave your own sense to judge . 
Don't tell me ! All I say is , it's a mercy they didn't take this Doctor Lydgate on to our club . 
There's many a mother's child might ha' rued it . 
We will make a journey to Cheltenham in the course of a month or two , he had said to his wife . 
There are great spiritual advantages to be had in that town along with the air and the waters , and six weeks there will be eminently refreshing to us . 
as to the Hospital , he avoided saying anything further to Lydgate , fearing to manifest a too sudden change of plans immediately on the death of Raffles . 
In his secret soul he believed that Lydgate suspected his orders to have been intentionally disobeyed , and suspecting this he must also suspect a motive . 
But nothing had been betrayed to him as to the history of Raffles , and Bulstrode was anxious not to do anything which would give emphasis to his undefined suspicions . 
Hence Bulstrode felt himself providentially secured . 
The only incident he had strongly winced under had been an occasional encounter with Caleb Garth , who , however , had raised his hat with mild gravity . 
Meanwhile , on the part of the principal townsmen a strong determination was growing against him . 
A meeting was to be held in the Town Hall on a sanitary question which had risen into pressing importance by the occurrence of a cholera case in the town . 
The question now was , whether a piece of ground outside the town should be secured as a burial ground by means of assessment or by private subscription . 
The meeting was to be open , and almost everybody of importance in the town was expected to be there . 
Mr. Bulstrode was a member of the Board , and just before twelve o'clock he started from the Bank with the intention of urging the plan of private subscription . 
Among the various persons going in the same direction , he saw Lydgate they joined , talked over the object of the meeting , and entered it together . 
It seemed that everybody of mark had been earlier than they . 
But there were still spaces left near the head of the large central table , and they made their way thither . 
Mr. Farebrother sat opposite , not far from Mr. Hawley all the medical men were there Mr. Thesiger was in the chair , and Mr. Brooke of Tipton was on his right hand . 
Lydgate noticed a peculiar interchange of glances when he and Bulstrode took their seats . 
Mr. Hawley's mode of speech , even when public decorum repressed his awful language , was formidable in its curtness and self possession . 
Mr. Thesiger sanctioned the request , Mr. Bulstrode sat down , and Mr. Hawley continued . 
There are practices and there are acts which , owing to circumstances , the law cannot visit , though they may be worse than many things which are legally punishable . 
But in that intense being lay the strength of reaction . 
Before the last words were out of Mr. Hawley's mouth , Bulstrode felt that he should answer , and that his answer would be a retort . 
For a few moments there was total silence , while every man in the room was looking at Bulstrode . 
But his voice was perfectly audible , though hoarser than usual , and his words were distinctly pronounced , though he paused between sentence as if short of breath . 
Those who are hostile to me are glad to believe any libel uttered by a loose tongue against me . 
And their consciences become strict against me . 
If you mean me , sir , I call you and every one else to the inspection of my professional life . 
I affect no niceness of conscience I have not found any nice standards necessary yet to measure your actions by , sir . 
I say , sir , we decline to co operate with a man whose character is not cleared from infamous lights cast upon it , not only by reports but by recent actions . 
Allow me , Mr. Hawley , said the chairman and Mr. Hawley , still fuming , bowed half impatiently , and sat down with his hands thrust deep in his pockets . 
I for my part should be willing to give you full opportunity and hearing . 
I recommend you at present , as your clergyman , and one who hopes for your reinstatement in respect , to quit the room , and avoid further hindrance to business . 
What could he do ? He could not see a man sink close to him for want of help . 
The inferences were closely linked enough the town knew of the loan , believed it to be a bribe , and believed that he took it as a bribe . 
Meanwhile the business of the meeting was despatched , and fringed off into eager discussion among various groups concerning this affair of Bulstrode and Lydgate . 
Mr. Farebrother was going to walk back to Lowick . 
Step into my carriage , said Mr. Brooke . 
I am going round to see Mrs. Casaubon . 
She was to come back from Yorkshire last night . 
She will like to see me , you know . 
When the carriage drove up to the gate of the Manor , Dorothea was out on the gravel , and came to greet them . 
Well , my dear , said Mr. Brooke , we have just come from a meeting a sanitary meeting , you know . 
Was Mr. Lydgate there ? said Dorothea , who looked full of health and animation , and stood with her head bare under the gleaming April lights . 
I want to see him and have a great consultation with him about the Hospital . 
I have engaged with Mr. Bulstrode to do so . 
Oh , my dear , said Mr. Brooke , we have been hearing bad news bad news , you know . 
They walked through the garden towards the churchyard gate , Mr. Farebrother wanting to go on to the parsonage and Dorothea heard the whole sad story . 
She listened with deep interest , and begged to hear twice over the facts and impressions concerning Lydgate . 
Let us find out the truth and clear him ! BOOK VIII . 
Full souls are double mirrors , making still An endless vista of fair things before , Repeating things behind . 
It is a delicate matter to touch , he said . 
How can we begin to inquire into it ? It must be either publicly by setting the magistrate and coroner to work , or privately by questioning Lydgate . 
He would probably take it as a deadly insult . 
I have more than once experienced the difficulty of speaking to him on personal matters . 
And one should know the truth about his conduct beforehand , to feel very confident of a good result . 
I feel convinced that his conduct has not been guilty I believe that people are almost always better than their neighbors think they are , said Dorothea . 
She disliked this cautious weighing of consequences , instead of an ardent faith in efforts of justice and mercy , which would conquer by their emotional force . 
Mr. Lydgate would understand that if his friends hear a calumny about him their first wish must be to justify him . 
He disagreed with her now . 
But , Dorothea , he said , remonstrantly , you can't undertake to manage a man's life for him in that way . 
Lydgate must know at least he will soon come to know how he stands . 
If he can clear himself , he will . 
He must act for himself . 
I think his friends must wait till they find an opportunity , added Mr. Farebrother . 
I say , I can conceive this , if he were under the pressure of hard circumstances if he had been harassed as I feel sure Lydgate has been . 
I would not believe anything worse of him except under stringent proof . 
Oh , how cruel ! said Dorothea , clasping her hands . 
But , my dear Mrs. Casaubon , said Mr. Farebrother , smiling gently at her ardor , character is not cut in marble it is not something solid and unalterable . 
It is something living and changing , and may become diseased as our bodies do . 
Then it may be rescued and healed , said Dorothea I should not be afraid of asking Mr. Lydgate to tell me the truth , that I might help him . 
There is the best opportunity in the world for me to ask for his confidence and he would be able to tell me things which might make all the circumstances clear . 
Then we would all stand by him and bring him out of his trouble . 
People glorify all sorts of bravery except the bravery they might show on behalf of their nearest neighbors . 
Dorothea's eyes had a moist brightness in them , and the changed tones of her voice roused her uncle , who began to listen . 
It is true that a woman may venture on some efforts of sympathy which would hardly succeed if we men undertook them , said Mr. Farebrother , almost converted by Dorothea's ardor . 
Surely , a woman is bound to be cautious and listen to those who know the world better than she does . 
said Sir James , with his little frown . 
Whatever you do in the end , Dorothea , you should really keep back at present , and not volunteer any meddling with this Bulstrode business . 
We don't know yet what may turn up . 
You must agree with me ? he ended , looking at Mr. Farebrother . 
I do think it would be better to wait , said the latter . 
It is easy to go too far , you know . 
You must not let your ideas run away with you . 
And as to being in a hurry to put money into schemes it won't do , you know . 
Garth has drawn me in uncommonly with repairs , draining , that sort of thing I'm uncommonly out of pocket with one thing or another . 
As for you , Chettam , you are spending a fortune on those oak fences round your demesne . 
Dorothea , submitting uneasily to this discouragement , went with Celia into the library , which was her usual drawing room . 
Now , Dodo , do listen to what James says , said Celia , else you will be getting into a scrape . 
You always did , and you always will , when you set about doing as you please . 
And I think it is a mercy now after all that you have got James to think for you . 
He lets you have your plans , only he hinders you from being taken in . 
And that is the good of having a brother instead of a husband . 
A husband would not let you have your plans . 
As if I wanted a husband ! said Dorothea . 
I only want not to have my feelings checked at every turn . 
Mrs. Casaubon was still undisciplined enough to burst into angry tears . 
Now , really , Dodo , said Celia , with rather a deeper guttural than usual , you ARE contradictory first one thing and then another . 
You used to submit to Mr. Casaubon quite shamefully I think you would have given up ever coming to see me if he had asked you . 
Of course I submitted to him , because it was my duty it was my feeling for him , said Dorothea , looking through the prism of her tears . 
Then why can't you think it your duty to submit a little to what James wishes ? said Celia , with a sense of stringency in her argument . 
Because he only wishes what is for your own good . 
And , of course , men know best about everything , except what women know better . 
Dorothea laughed and forgot her tears . 
Well , I mean about babies and those things , explained Celia . 
I should not give up to James when I knew he was wrong , as you used to do to Mr. Casaubon . 
Pity the laden one this wandering woe May visit you and me . 
He felt himself becoming violent and unreasonable as if raging under the pain of stings he was ready to curse the day on which he had come to Middlemarch . 
In such moments a man can hardly escape being unloving . 
Lydgate thought of himself as the sufferer , and of others as the agents who had injured his lot . 
He had meant everything to turn out differently and others had thrust themselves into his life and thwarted his purposes . 
For he was very miserable . 
Bulstrode had been in dread of scandalous disclosures on the part of Raffles . 
Lydgate could now construct all the probabilities of the case . 
And he may have tampered with the patient he may have disobeyed my orders . 
But whether he did or not , the world believes that he somehow or other poisoned the man and that I winked at the crime , if I didn't help in it . 
What we call the just possible' is sometimes true and the thing we find it easier to believe is grossly false . 
In his last dealings with this man Bulstrode may have kept his hands pure , in spite of my suspicion to the contrary . 
There was a benumbing cruelty in his position . 
The circumstances would always be stronger than his assertion . 
And besides , to come forward and tell everything about himself must include declarations about Bulstrode which would darken the suspicions of others against him . 
And after all , the suspicion of Bulstrode's motives might be unjust . 
Science is properly more scrupulous than dogma . 
Dogma gives a charter to mistake , but the very breath of science is a contest with mistake , and must keep the conscience alive . 
Alas ! the scientific conscience had got into the debasing company of money obligation and selfish respects . 
Even if I could be cleared by valid evidence , it would make little difference to the blessed world here . 
I have been set down as tainted and should be cheapened to them all the same . 
at him , and in two instances it came to his knowledge that patients of his had called in another practitioner . 
The reasons were too plain now . 
The general black balling had begun . 
No wonder that in Lydgate's energetic nature the sense of a hopeless misconstruction easily turned into a dogged resistance . 
The scowl which occasionally showed itself on his square brow was not a meaningless accident . 
He would not retreat before calumny , as if he submitted to it . 
He would face it to the utmost , and no act of his should show that he was afraid . 
It belonged to the generosity as well as defiant force of his nature that he resolved not to shrink from showing to the full his sense of obligation to Bulstrode . 
nevertheless , he would not turn away from this crushed fellow mortal whose aid he had used , and make a pitiful effort to get acquittal for himself by howling against another . 
I shall do as I think right , and explain to nobody . 
How would Rosamond take it all ? Here was another weight of chain to drag , and poor Lydgate was in a bad mood for bearing her dumb mastery . 
He had no impulse to tell her the trouble which must soon be common to them both . 
He preferred waiting for the incidental disclosure which events must soon bring about . 
Mercifully grant that we may grow aged together . 
BOOK OF TOBIT Marriage Prayer . 
In Middlemarch a wife could not long remain ignorant that the town held a bad opinion of her husband . 
On the whole , one might say that an ardent charity was at work setting the virtuous mind to make a neighbor unhappy for her good . 
There were hardly any wives in Middlemarch whose matrimonial misfortunes would in different ways be likely to call forth more of this moral activity than Rosamond and her aunt Bulstrode . 
Mrs. Bulstrode was not an object of dislike , and had never consciously injured any human being . 
With the review of Mrs. Bulstrode and her position it was inevitable to associate Rosamond , whose prospects were under the same blight with her aunt's . 
The Vincys had their weaknesses , but then they lay on the surface there was never anything bad to be found out concerning them . 
Mrs. Bulstrode was vindicated from any resemblance to her husband . 
Harriet's faults were her own . 
Mr. Thesiger has always countenanced him , said Mrs. Hackbutt . 
I think he must be sorry now . 
But he was never fond of him in his heart that every one knows , said Mrs. Tom Toller . 
Mr. Thesiger never goes into extremes . 
He keeps to the truth in what is evangelical . 
It is only clergymen like Mr. Tyke , who want to use Dissenting hymn books and that low kind of religion , who ever found Bulstrode to their taste . 
I understand , Mr. Tyke is in great distress about him , said Mrs. Hackbutt . 
And well he may be they say the Bulstrodes have half kept the Tyke family . 
And of coarse it is a discredit to his doctrines , said Mrs. Sprague , who was elderly , and old fashioned in her opinions . 
People will not make a boast of being methodistical in Middlemarch for a good while to come . 
I think we must not set down people's bad actions to their religion , said falcon faced Mrs. Plymdale , who had been listening hitherto . 
Oh , my dear , we are forgetting , said Mrs. Sprague . 
We ought not to be talking of this before you . 
I am sure I have no reason to be partial , said Mrs. Plymdale , coloring . 
It's true Mr. Plymdale has always been on good terms with Mr. Bulstrode , and Harriet Vincy was my friend long before she married him . 
But I have always kept my own opinions and told her where she was wrong , poor thing . 
Still , in point of religion , I must say , Mr. Bulstrode might have done what he has , and worse , and yet have been a man of no religion . 
I don't say that there has not been a little too much of that I like moderation myself . 
The men tried at the assizes are not all over religious , I suppose . 
Well , said Mrs. Hackbutt , wheeling adroitly , all I can say is , that I think she ought to separate from him . 
I can't say that , said Mrs. Sprague . 
She took him for better or worse , you know . 
But worse' can never mean finding out that your husband is fit for Newgate , said Mrs. Hackbutt . 
Fancy living with such a man ! I should expect to be poisoned . 
Yes , I think myself it is an encouragement to crime if such men are to be taken care of and waited on by good wives , said Mrs. Tom Toller . 
And a good wife poor Harriet has been , said Mrs. Plymdale . 
She thinks her husband the first of men . 
It's true he has never denied her anything . 
Well , we shall see what she will do , said Mrs. Hackbutt . 
I suppose she knows nothing yet , poor creature . 
I do hope and trust I shall not see her , for I should be frightened to death lest I should say anything about her husband . 
Do you think any hint has reached her ? I should hardly think so , said Mrs. Tom Toller . 
Her own had a feather in it . 
I have never seen that her religion made any difference in her dress . 
She wears very neat patterns always , said Mrs. Plymdale , a little stung . 
And that feather I know she got dyed a pale lavender on purpose to be consistent . 
I must say it of Harriet that she wishes to do right . 
As to her knowing what has happened , it can't be kept from her long , said Mrs. Hackbutt . 
The Vincys know , for Mr. Vincy was at the meeting . 
It will he a great blow to him . 
There is his daughter as well as his sister . 
Yes , indeed , said Mrs. Sprague . 
Nobody supposes that Mr. Lydgate can go on holding up his head in Middlemarch , things look so black about the thousand pounds he took just at that man's death . 
It really makes one shudder . 
Pride must have a fall , said Mrs. Hackbutt . 
I am not so sorry for Rosamond Vincy that was as I am for her aunt , said Mrs. Plymdale . 
I suppose the Bulstrodes will go and live abroad somewhere , said Mrs. Sprague . 
That is what is generally done when there is anything disgraceful in a family . 
And a most deadly blow it will be to Harriet , said Mrs. Plymdale . 
If ever a woman was crushed , she will be . 
I pity her from my heart . 
And with all her faults , few women are better . 
From a girl she had the neatest ways , and was always good hearted , and as open as the day . 
You might look into her drawers when you would always the same . 
And so she has brought up Kate and Ellen . 
You may think how hard it will be for her to go among foreigners . 
The doctor says that is what he should recommend the Lydgates to do , said Mrs. Sprague . 
He says Lydgate ought to have kept among the French . 
That would suit HER well enough , I dare say , said Mrs. Plymdale there is that kind of lightness about her . 
Mrs. Plymdale was in a situation which caused her some complication of feeling . 
Something , she felt sure , had happened . 
Perhaps it was some great loss of money and she was kept in the dark . 
Has anything happened to Mr. Bulstrode ? Some little nervous shock , said Lydgate , evasively . 
He felt that it was not for him to make the painful revelation . 
But what brought it on ? said Mrs. Bulstrode , looking directly at him with her large dark eyes . 
There is often something poisonous in the air of public rooms , said Lydgate . 
Strong men can stand it , but it tells on people in proportion to the delicacy of their systems . 
It is often impossible to account for the precise moment of an attack or rather , to say why the strength gives way at a particular moment . 
Mrs. Bulstrode was not satisfied with this answer . 
She called on Mrs. Thesiger , who was not at home , and then drove to Mrs. Hackbutt's on the other side of the churchyard . 
She was resolved not to ask how Mr. Bulstrode was . 
I have not been anywhere except to church for nearly a week , said Mrs. Bulstrode , after a few introductory remarks . 
But Mr. Bulstrode was taken so ill at the meeting on Thursday that I have not liked to leave the house . 
Mrs. Hackbutt rubbed the back of one hand with the palm of the other held against her chest , and let her eyes ramble over the pattern on the rug . 
Was Mr. Hackbutt at the meeting ? persevered Mrs. Bulstrode . 
Yes , he was , said Mrs. Hackbutt , with the same attitude . 
The land is to be bought by subscription , I believe . 
Let us hope that there will be no more cases of cholera to be buried in it , said Mrs. Bulstrode . 
It is an awful visitation . 
But I always think Middlemarch a very healthy spot . 
I suppose it is being used to it from a child but I never saw the town I should like to live at better , and especially our end . 
I am sure I should be glad that you always should live at Middlemarch , Mrs. Bulstrode , said Mrs. Hackbutt , with a slight sigh . 
Still , we must learn to resign ourselves , wherever our lot may be east . 
Though I am sure there will always be people in this town who will wish you well . 
That would account for everything . 
But when she was in conversation with Mrs. Plymdale that comforting explanation seemed no longer tenable . 
She said good by with nervous haste , and told the coachman to drive to Mr. Vincy's warehouse . 
That moment was perhaps worse than any which came after . 
It contained that concentrated experience which in great crises of emotion reveals the bias of a nature , and is prophetic of the ultimate act which will end an intermediate struggle . 
All this went on within her in a mere flash of time while she sank into the chair , and raised her eyes to her brother , who stood over her . 
I know nothing , Walter . 
What is it ? she said , faintly . 
He told her everything , very inartificially , in slow fragments , making her aware that the scandal went much beyond proof , especially as to the end of Raffles . 
People will talk , he said . 
It's a breakdown blow , and it damages Lydgate as much as Bulstrode . 
I don't pretend to say what is the truth . 
I only wish we had never heard the name of either Bulstrode or Lydgate . 
You'd better have been a Vincy all your life , and so had Rosamond . 
Mrs. Bulstrode made no reply . 
But you must bear up as well as you can , Harriet . 
And I'll stand by you whatever you make up your mind to do , said the brother , with rough but well meaning affectionateness . 
Give me your arm to the carriage , Walter , said Mrs. Bulstrode . 
And when she got home she was obliged to say to her daughter , I am not well , my dear I must go and lie down . 
I shall take no dinner . 
She locked herself in her room . 
She needed time to get used to her maimed consciousness , her poor lopped life , before she could walk steadily to the place allotted her . 
He had married her with that bad past life hidden behind him , and she had no faith left to protest his innocence of the worst that was imputed to him . 
Her honest ostentatious nature made the sharing of a merited dishonor as bitter as it could be to any mortal . 
But this imperfectly taught woman , whose phrases and habits were an odd patchwork , had a loyal spirit within her . 
There is a forsaking which still sits at the same board and lies on the same couch with the forsaken soul , withering it the more by unloving proximity . 
But she needed time to gather up her strength she needed to sob out her farewell to all the gladness and pride of her life . 
Bulstrode , who knew that his wife had been out and had come in saying that she was not well , had spent the time in an agitation equal to hers . 
He had looked forward to her learning the truth from others , and had acquiesced in that probability , as something easier to him than any confession . 
But now that he imagined the moment of her knowledge come , he awaited the result in anguish . 
His daughters had been obliged to consent to leave him , and though he had allowed some food to be brought to him , he had not touched it . 
He felt himself perishing slowly in unpitied misery . 
Perhaps he should never see his wife's face with affection in it again . 
And if he turned to God there seemed to be no answer but the pressure of retribution . 
It was eight o'clock in the evening before the door opened and his wife entered . 
He dared not look up at her . 
He sat with his eyes bent down , and as she went towards him she thought he looked smaller he seemed so withered and shrunken . 
He burst out crying and they cried together , she sitting at his side . 
They could not yet speak to each other of the shame which she was bearing with him , or of the acts which had brought it down on them . 
His confession was silent , and her promise of faithfulness was silent . 
Open minded as she was , she nevertheless shrank from the words which would have expressed their mutual consciousness , as she would have shrunk from flakes of fire . 
She could not say , How much is only slander and false suspicion ? and he did not say , I am innocent . 
Le sentiment de la faussete' des plaisirs presents , et l'ignorance de la vanite des plaisirs absents , causent l'inconstance . 
Rosamond had a gleam of returning cheerfulness when the house was freed from the threatening figure , and when all the disagreeable creditors were paid . 
But she was not joyous her married life had fulfilled none of her hopes , and had been quite spoiled for her imagination . 
When she did not make this answer , she listened languidly , and wondered what she had that was worth living for . 
They were at a disadvantage with their neighbors , and there was no longer any outlook towards Quallingham there was no outlook anywhere except in an occasional letter from Will Ladislaw . 
Mrs. Casaubon was all very well but Will's interest in her dated before he knew Mrs. Lydgate . 
She even fancied what will not men and women fancy in these matters ? that Will exaggerated his admiration for Mrs. Casaubon in order to pique herself . 
In this way poor Rosamond's brain had been busy before Will's departure . 
He would have made , she thought , a much more suitable husband for her than she had found in Lydgate . 
Since then the troubles of her married life had deepened , and the absence of other relief encouraged her regretful rumination over that thin romance which she had once fed on . 
Men and women make sad mistakes about their own symptoms , taking their vague uneasy longings , sometimes for genius , sometimes for religion , and oftener still for a mighty love . 
He hoped there was his old place on the rug , and a great deal of music in store for him . 
But he was quite uncertain as to the time . 
While Lydgate was reading the letter to Rosamond , her face looked like a reviving flower it grew prettier and more blooming . 
That was a bright bit of morning . 
But soon the sky became black over poor Rosamond . 
But all the invitations were declined , and the last answer came into Lydgate's hands . 
What is he writing to you about ? said Lydgate , wonderingly , as he handed the note to her . 
I suppose you have been inviting others , and they have refused too . 
Do you hear me ? thundered Lydgate . 
Yes , certainly I hear you , said Rosamond , turning her head aside with the movement of a graceful long necked bird . 
Lydgate tossed his head without any grace and walked out of the room , feeling himself dangerous . 
Lydgate's odious humors and their neighbors' apparent avoidance of them had an unaccountable date for her in their relief from money difficulties . 
It was after the dinner hour , and she found her father and mother seated together alone in the drawing room . 
They greeted her with sad looks , saying Well , my dear ! and no more . 
Is it anything about Tertius ? said Rosamond , turning pale . 
The idea of trouble immediately connected itself with what had been unaccountable to her in him . 
Oh , my dear , yes . 
To think of your marrying into this trouble . 
Debt was bad enough , but this will be worse . 
Stay , stay , Lucy , said Mr. Vincy . 
Her father told her everything , saying at the end , It's better for you to know , my dear . 
I think Lydgate must leave the town . 
Things have gone against him . 
I dare say he couldn't help it . 
I don't accuse him of any harm , said Mr. Vincy . 
He had always before been disposed to find the utmost fault with Lydgate . 
The shock to Rosamond was terrible . 
It seemed to her that no lot could be so cruelly hard as hers to have married a man who had become the centre of infamous suspicions . 
All the shame seemed to be there . 
She bears it beyond anything , said her mother when she was gone . 
Ah , thank God ! said Mr. Vincy , who was much broken down . 
But Rosamond went home with a sense of justified repugnance towards her husband . 
What had he really done how had he really acted ? She did not know . 
Why had he not told her everything ? He did not speak to her on the subject , and of course she could not speak to him . 
The next two days Lydgate observed a change in her , and believed that she had heard the bad news . 
He thought , I am a fool . 
Haven't I given up expecting anything ? I have married care , not help . 
What have you heard ? Everything , I suppose . 
That people think me disgraced ? Yes , said Rosamond , faintly , beginning to sew again automatically . 
Lydgate thought , If she has any trust in me any notion of what I am , she ought to speak now and say that she does not believe I have deserved disgrace . 
But Rosamond on her side went on moving her fingers languidly . 
Whatever was to be said on the subject she expected to come from Tertius . 
He had begun to question her with the intent that their conversation should disperse the chill fog which had gathered between them , but he felt his resolution checked by despairing resentment . 
Even this trouble , like the rest , she seemed to regard as if it were hers alone . 
He was always to her a being apart , doing what she objected to . 
He started from his chair with an angry impulse , and thrusting his hands in his pockets , walked up and down the room . 
There was an underlying consciousness all the while that he should have to master this anger , and tell her everything , and convince her of the facts . 
For he had almost learned the lesson that he must bend himself to her nature , and that because she came short in her sympathy , he must give the more . 
Soon he recurred to his intention of opening himself the occasion must not be lost . 
He would mention the definite measures which he desired to take , and win her to a willing spirit . 
She too had begun to think this an opportunity for urging on Tertius what he ought to do . 
Whatever might be the truth about all this misery , there was one dread which asserted itself . 
He had conquered himself so far , and was about to speak with a sense of solemnity , as on an occasion which was not to be repeated . 
I cannot go on living here . 
Let us go to London . 
Papa , and every one else , says you had better go . 
Whatever misery I have to put up with , it will be easier away from here . 
Instead of that critical outpouring for which he had prepared himself with effort , here was the old round to be gone through again . 
He could not bear it . 
With a quick change of countenance he rose and went out of the room . 
Perhaps if he had been strong enough to persist in his determination to be the more because she was less , that evening might have had a better issue . 
If his energy could have borne down that check , he might still have wrought on Rosamond's vision and will . 
We cannot be sure that any natures , however inflexible or peculiar , will resist this effect from a more massive being than their own . 
They may be taken by storm and for the moment converted , becoming part of the soul which enwraps them in the ardor of its movement . 
But poor Lydgate had a throbbing pain within him , and his energy had fallen short of its task . 
The beginning of mutual understanding and resolve seemed as far off as ever nay , it seemed blocked out by the sense of unsuccessful effort . 
It was of no use to say anything to Tertius but when Will Ladislaw came , she was determined to tell him everything . 
In spite of her general reticence , she needed some one who would recognize her wrongs . 
To mercy , pity , peace , and love All pray in their distress , And to these virtues of delight , Return their thankfulness . 
For Mercy has a human heart , Pity a human face And Love , the human form divine And Peace , the human dress . 
WILLIAM BLAKE Songs of Innocence . 
Some days later , Lydgate was riding to Lowick Manor , in consequence of a summons from Dorothea . 
It had been his duty , before taking further steps , to reopen the subject with Mrs. Casaubon , who now wished , as before , to discuss the question with Lydgate . 
Your views may possibly have undergone some change , wrote Mr. Bulstrode but , in that case also , it is desirable that you should lay them before her . 
Dorothea awaited his arrival with eager interest . 
In her luxurious home , wandering under the boughs of her own great trees , her thought was going out over the lot of others , and her emotions were imprisoned . 
She was full of confident hope about this interview with Lydgate , never heeding what was said of his personal reserve never heeding that she was a very young woman . 
Nothing could have seemed more irrelevant to Dorothea than insistence on her youth and sex when she was moved to show her human fellowship . 
As she sat waiting in the library , she could do nothing but live through again all the past scenes which had brought Lydgate into her memories . 
When Lydgate came in , she was almost shocked at the change in his face , which was strikingly perceptible to her who had not seen him for two months . 
It was not the change of emaciation , but that effect which even young faces will very soon show from the persistent presence of resentment and despondency . 
Her cordial look , when she put out her hand to him , softened his expression , but only with melancholy . 
And I am sure you will not refuse to tell me exactly what you think . 
You want to decide whether you should give a generous support to the Hospital , said Lydgate . 
I cannot conscientiously advise you to do it in dependence on any activity of mine . 
I may be obliged to leave the town . 
He spoke curtly , feeling the ache of despair as to his being able to carry out any purpose that Rosamond had set her mind against . 
Not because there is no one to believe in you ? said Dorothea , pouring out her words in clearness from a full heart . 
I know the unhappy mistakes about you . 
I knew them from the first moment to be mistakes . 
You have never done anything vile . 
You would not do anything dishonorable . 
It was the first assurance of belief in him that had fallen on Lydgate's ears . 
He drew a deep breath , and said , Thank you . 
He could say no more it was something very new and strange in his life that these few words of trust from a woman should be so much to him . 
I beseech you to tell me how everything was , said Dorothea , fearlessly . 
I am sure that the truth would clear you . 
Lydgate started up from his chair and went towards the window , forgetting where he was . 
Tell me , pray , said Dorothea , with simple earnestness then we can consult together . 
It is wicked to let people think evil of any one falsely , when it can be hindered . 
Lydgate turned , remembering where he was , and saw Dorothea's face looking up at him with a sweet trustful gravity . 
That influence was beginning to act on Lydgate , who had for many days been seeing all life as one who is dragged and struggling amid the throng . 
He sat down again , and felt that he was recovering his old self in the consciousness that he was with one who believed in it . 
I don't want , he said , to bear hard on Bulstrode , who has lent me money of which I was in need though I would rather have gone without it now . 
He is hunted down and miserable , and has only a poor thread of life in him . 
But I should like to tell you everything . 
It will be a comfort to me to speak where belief has gone beforehand , and where I shall not seem to be offering assertions of my own honesty . 
You will feel what is fair to another , as you feel what is fair to me . 
Do trust me , said Dorothea I will not repeat anything without your leave . 
But at the very least , I could say that you have made all the circumstances clear to me , and that I know you are not in any way guilty . 
Mr. Farebrother would believe me , and my uncle , and Sir James Chettam . 
Nay , there are persons in Middlemarch to whom I could go although they don't know much of me , they would believe me . 
They would know that I could have no other motive than truth and justice . 
I would take any pains to clear you . 
I have very little to do . 
There is nothing better that I can do in the world . 
Dorothea's voice , as she made this childlike picture of what she would do , might have been almost taken as a proof that she could do it effectively . 
The searching tenderness of her woman's tones seemed made for a defence against ready accusers . 
But that would not have been opposed to ordinary prescriptions , even of first rate men . 
They are just the suspicions that cling the most obstinately , because they lie in people's inclination and can never be disproved . 
How my orders came to be disobeyed is a question to which I don't know the answer . 
It is still possible that Bulstrode was innocent of any criminal intention even possible that he had nothing to do with the disobedience , and merely abstained from mentioning it . 
But all that has nothing to do with the public belief . 
I am simply blighted like a damaged ear of corn the business is done and can't be undone . 
Oh , it is hard ! said Dorothea . 
I understand the difficulty there is in your vindicating yourself . 
I know you meant that . 
I remember what you said to me when you first spoke to me about the hospital . 
There is no sorrow I have thought more about than that to love what is great , and try to reach it , and yet to fail . 
Yes , said Lydgate , feeling that here he had found room for the full meaning of his grief . 
I meant everything to be different with me . 
I thought I had more strength and mastery . 
But the most terrible obstacles are such as nobody can see except oneself . 
That might do if I had my old trust in myself , said Lydgate , mournfully . 
Nothing galls me more than the notion of turning round and running away before this slander , leaving it unchecked behind me . 
Still , I can't ask any one to put a great deal of money into a plan which depends on me . 
It would be quite worth my while , said Dorothea , simply . 
I am very uncomfortable with my money , because they tell me I have too little for any great scheme of the sort I like best , and yet I have too much . 
I don't know what to do . 
So you see that what I should most rejoice at would be to have something good to do with my money I should like it to make other people's lives better to them . 
It makes me very uneasy coming all to me who don't want it . 
A smile broke through the gloom of Lydgate's face . 
The childlike grave eyed earnestness with which Dorothea said all this was irresistible blent into an adorable whale with her ready understanding of high experience . 
But she took the smile as encouragement of her plan . 
I think you see now that you spoke too scrupulously , she said , in a tone of persuasion . 
The hospital would be one good and making your life quite whole and well again would be another . 
Lydgate's smile had died away . 
You have the goodness as well as the money to do all that if it could be done , he said . 
But He hesitated a little while , looking vaguely towards the window and she sat in silent expectation . 
At last he turned towards her and said impetuously Why should I not tell you ? you know what sort of bond marriage is . 
Dorothea felt her heart beginning to beat faster . 
Had he that sorrow too ? But she feared to say any word , and he went on immediately . 
It is impossible for me now to do anything to take any step without considering my wife's happiness . 
The thing that I might like to do if I were alone , is become impossible to me . 
I can't see her miserable . 
She married me without knowing what she was going into , and it might have been better for her if she had not married me . 
I know , I know you could not give her pain , if you were not obliged to do it , said Dorothea , with keen memory of her own life . 
And she has set her mind against staying . 
The troubles she has had here have wearied her , said Lydgate , breaking off again , lest he should say too much . 
But when she saw the good that might come of staying said Dorothea , remonstrantly , looking at Lydgate as if he had forgotten the reasons which had just been considered . 
He did not speak immediately . 
She would not see it , he said at last , curtly , feeling at first that this statement must do without explanation . 
And , indeed , I have lost all spirit about carrying on my life here . 
We have not been able to speak to each other about it . 
I am not sure what is in her mind about it she may fear that I have really done something base . 
It is my fault I ought to be more open . 
But I have been suffering cruelly . 
May I go and see her ? said Dorothea , eagerly . 
Would she accept my sympathy ? I would tell her that you have not been blamable before any one's judgment but your own . 
I would tell her that you shall be cleared in every fair mind . 
I would cheer her heart . 
Will you ask her if I may go to see her ? I did see her once . 
I am sure you may , said Lydgate , seizing the proposition with some hope . 
She would feel honored cheered , I think , by the proof that you at least have some respect for me . 
I will not speak to her about your coming that she may not connect it with my wishes at all . 
I know very well that I ought not to have left anything to be told her by others , but He broke off , and there was a moment's silence . 
Dorothea refrained from saying what was in her mind how well she knew that there might be invisible barriers to speech between husband and wife . 
This was a point on which even sympathy might make a wound . 
Perhaps then you would see that it was right to agree with what I proposed about your continuing at the Hospital . 
You need not decide immediately , she said , gently . 
A few days hence it will be early enough for me to send my answer to Mr. Bulstrode . 
Lydgate still waited , but at last turned to speak in his most decisive tones . 
No I prefer that there should be no interval left for wavering . 
I am no longer sure enough of myself I mean of what it would be possible for me to do under the changed circumstances of my life . 
It would be dishonorable to let others engage themselves to anything serious in dependence on me . 
I might be obliged to go away after all I see little chance of anything else . 
The whole thing is too problematic I cannot consent to be the cause of your goodness being wasted . 
No let the new Hospital be joined with the old Infirmary , and everything go on as it might have done if I had never come . 
I have kept a valuable register since I have been there I shall send it to a man who will make use of it , he ended bitterly . 
I can think of nothing for a long while but getting an income . 
It hurts me very much to hear you speak so hopelessly , said Dorothea . 
It would be a happiness to your friends , who believe in your future , in your power to do great things , if you would let them save you from that . 
Think how much money I have it would be like taking a burthen from me if you took some of it every year till you got free from this fettering want of income . 
Why should not people do these things ? It is so difficult to make shares at all even . 
It is good that you should have such feelings . 
But I am not the man who ought to allow himself to benefit by them . 
I have not given guarantees enough . 
I must not at least sink into the degradation of being pensioned for work that I never achieved . 
It is very clear to me that I must not count on anything else than getting away from Middlemarch as soon as I can manage it . 
Now that is not brave , said Dorothea , to give up the fight . 
Everything seems more bearable since I have talked to you and if you can clear me in a few other minds , especially in Farebrother's , I shall be deeply grateful . 
The point I wish you not to mention is the fact of disobedience to my orders . 
That would soon get distorted . 
After all , there is no evidence for me but people's opinion of me beforehand . 
You can only repeat my own report of myself . 
Mr. Farebrother will believe others will believe , said Dorothea . 
I can say of you what will make it stupidity to suppose that you would be bribed to do a wickedness . 
I don't know , said Lydgate , with something like a groan in his voice . 
I have not taken a bribe yet . 
But there is a pale shade of bribery which is sometimes called prosperity . 
You will do me another great kindness , then , and come to see my wife ? Yes , I will . 
I remember how pretty she is , said Dorothea , into whose mind every impression about Rosamond had cut deep . 
I hope she will like me . 
As Lydgate rode away , he thought , This young creature has a heart large enough for the Virgin Mary . 
She seems to have what I never saw in any woman before a fountain of friendship towards men a man can make a friend of her . 
Casaubon must have raised some heroic hallucination in her . 
I wonder if she could have any other sort of passion for a man ? Ladislaw ? there was certainly an unusual feeling between them . 
And Casaubon must have had a notion of it . 
Well her love might help a man more than her money . 
He might call her a creditor or by any other name if it did but imply that he granted her request . 
She enclosed a check for a thousand pounds , and determined to take the letter with her the next day when she went to see Rosamond . 
And thus thy fall hath left a kind of blot , To mark the full fraught man and best indued With some suspicion . 
Henry V. The next day Lydgate had to go to Brassing , and told Rosamond that he should be away until the evening . 
I am sure I hope some one will help us . 
And Mr. Vincy had said , Yes , child , I don't mind a hundred or two . 
I can see the end of that . 
This way of establishing sequences is too common to be fairly regarded as a peculiar folly in Rosamond . 
But this morning Rosamond descended from her room upstairs where she sometimes sat the whole day when Lydgate was out equipped for a walk in the town . 
She had a letter to post a letter addressed to Mr. Ladislaw and written with charming discretion , but intended to hasten his arrival by a hint of trouble . 
She was sure that the regard was blameless . 
If you are not good , none is good those little words may give a terrific meaning to responsibility , may hold a vitriolic intensity for remorse . 
But that simplicity of hers , holding up an ideal for others in her believing conception of them , was one of the great powers of her womanhood . 
And it had from the first acted strongly on Will Ladislaw . 
And he was right there . 
In the months since their parting Dorothea had felt a delicious though sad repose in their relation to each other , as one which was inwardly whole and without blemish . 
And perhaps there had been some pleasure in pointing Mr. Brooke's attention to this ugly bit of Ladislaw's genealogy , as a fresh candle for him to see his own folly by . 
She entertained no visions of their ever coming into nearer union , and yet she had taken no posture of renunciation . 
I should like to manage it myself , if I knew what to do with it , said Dorothea . 
This habitual state of feeling about Will Ladislaw had been strong . 
There was evidently some mental separation , some barrier to complete confidence which had arisen between this wife and the husband who had yet made her happiness a law to him . 
That was a trouble which no third person must directly touch . 
I shall talk to her about her husband , thought Dorothea , as she was being driven towards the town . 
I shall take Mrs. Lydgate good news , and perhaps she will like to talk to me and make a friend of me . 
Is Mrs. Lydgate at home ? said Dorothea . 
Will you please to walk in , and I'll go and see . 
They crossed the broader part of the entrance hall , and turned up the passage which led to the garden . 
Dorothea had less of outward vision than usual this morning , being filled with images of things as they had been and were going to be . 
I called to deliver an important letter for Mr. Lydgate , which I wished to put into your own hands . 
Dorothea walked across the street with her most elastic step and was quickly in her carriage again . 
And that was really her experience . 
It was as if she had drunk a great draught of scorn that stimulated her beyond the susceptibility to other feelings . 
She had seen something so far below her belief , that her emotions rushed back from it and made an excited throng without an object . 
She needed something active to turn her excitement out upon . 
She felt power to walk and work for a day , without meat or drink . 
Dodo , how very bright your eyes are ! said Celia , when Sir James was gone out of the room . 
And you don't see anything you look at , Arthur or anything . 
You are going to do something uncomfortable , I know . 
Is it all about Mr. Lydgate , or has something else happened ? Celia had been used to watch her sister with expectation . 
Yes , dear , a great many things have happened , said Dodo , in her full tones . 
I wonder what , said Celia , folding her arms cozily and leaning forward upon them . 
Oh , all the troubles of all people on the face of the earth , said Dorothea , lifting her arms to the back of her head . 
Dear me , Dodo , are you going to have a scheme for them ? said Celia , a little uneasy at this Hamlet like raving . 
It seemed an endless time to Rosamond , in whose inmost soul there was hardly so much annoyance as gratification from what had just happened . 
She put out her arm and laid the tips of her fingers on Will's coat sleeve . 
She was keenly offended , but the Signs she made of this were such as only Lydgate was used to interpret . 
She became suddenly quiet and seated herself , untying her hanging bonnet and laying it down with her shawl . 
Her little hands which she folded before her were very cold . 
In flute like tones of sarcasm she said You can easily go after Mrs. Casaubon and explain your preference . 
Go after her ! he burst out , with a sharp edge in his voice . 
He began to move about with the restlessness of a wild animal that sees prey but cannot reach it . 
Presently he burst out again I had no hope before not much of anything better to come . 
But I had one certainty that she believed in me . 
Whatever people had said or done about me , she believed in me . 
She'll think of me as an incarnate insult to her , from the first moment we Will stopped as if he had found himself grasping something that must not be thrown and shattered . 
He found another vent for his rage by snatching up Rosamond's words again , as if they were reptiles to be throttled and flung off . 
No other woman exists by the side of her . 
I would rather touch her hand if it were dead , than I would touch any other woman's living . 
Rosamond , while these poisoned weapons were being hurled at her , was almost losing the sense of her identity , and seemed to be waking into some new terrible existence . 
What another nature felt in opposition to her own was being burnt and bitten into her consciousness . 
When Will had ceased to speak she had become an image of sickened misery her lips were pale , and her eyes had a tearless dismay in them . 
Let it be forgiven to Will that he had no such movement of pity . 
He had felt no bond beforehand to this woman who had spoiled the ideal treasure of his life , and he held himself blameless . 
He knew that he was cruel , but he had no relenting in him yet . 
After he had done speaking , he still moved about , half in absence of mind , and Rosamond sat perfectly still . 
At length Will , seeming to bethink himself , took up his hat , yet stood some moments irresolute . 
He walked towards the mantel piece and leaned his arm on it , and waited in silence for he hardly knew what . 
calamity seated there he had had suddenly revealed to him a trouble that lay outside the home as well as within it . 
And so they remained for many minutes , opposite each other , far apart , in silence Will's face still possessed by a mute rage , and Rosamond's by a mute misery . 
Will wished that she would speak and bring some mitigating shadow across his own cruel speech , which seemed to stand staring at them both in mockery of any attempt at revived fellowship . 
And then Will went out of the house , Martha never knowing that he had been in . 
After he was gone , Rosamond tried to get up from her seat , but fell back fainting . 
Rosamond said that she had felt suddenly sick and faint , and wanted to be helped up stairs . 
When there she threw herself on the bed with her clothes on , and lay in apparent torpor , as she had done once before on a memorable day of grief . 
Lydgate came home earlier than he had expected , about half past five , and found her there . 
The perception that she was ill threw every other thought into the background . 
When he felt her pulse , her eyes rested on him with more persistence than they had done for a long while , as if she felt some content that he was there . 
The name of the slough was Despond . 
Not seriously , I hope , said Will . 
No only a slight nervous shock the effect of some agitation . 
She has been overwrought lately . 
The truth is , Ladislaw , I am an unlucky devil . 
We have gone through several rounds of purgatory since you left , and I have lately got on to a worse ledge of it than ever . 
I have been shutting myself up and resting , said Will , feeling himself a sneak , but seeing no alternative to this evasion . 
And then he heard Lydgate's account of the troubles which Rosamond had already depicted to him in her way . 
She had not mentioned the fact of Will's name being connected with the public story this detail not immediately affecting her and he now heard it for the first time . 
You will be sure to hear it as soon as you turn out into the town . 
I suppose it is true that Raffles spoke to you . 
Yes , said Will , sardonically . 
I shall be fortunate if gossip does not make me the most disreputable person in the whole affair . 
I should think the latest version must be , that I plotted with Raffles to murder Bulstrode , and ran away from Middlemarch for the purpose . 
He shrank from saying that he had rejected Bulstrode's money , in the moment when he was learning that it was Lydgate's misfortune to have accepted it . 
Lydgate too was reticent in the midst of his confidence . 
And it occurred to him that Dorothea was the real cause of the present visit to Middlemarch . 
The two men were pitying each other , but it was only Will who guessed the extent of his companion's trouble . 
When Lydgate spoke with desperate resignation of going to settle in London , and said with a faint smile , We shall have you again , old fellow . 
Will felt inexpressibly mournful , and said nothing . 
We are on a perilous margin when we begin to look passively at our future selves , and see our own figures led with dull consent into insipid misdoing and shabby achievement . 
Poor Lydgate was inwardly groaning on that margin , and Will was arriving at it . 
When Dorothea had seen Mr. Farebrother in the morning , she had promised to go and dine at the parsonage on her return from Freshitt . 
Henrietta Noble , said Mrs. Farebrother , seeing her small sister moving about the furniture legs distressfully , what is the matter ? I have lost my tortoise shell lozenge box . 
I fear the kitten has rolled it away , said the tiny old lady , involuntarily coutinuing her beaver like notes . 
Is it a great treasure , aunt ? said Mr. Farebrother , putting up his glasses and looking at the carpet . 
Mr. Ladislaw gave it me , said Miss Noble . 
A German box very pretty , but if it falls it always spins away as far as it can . 
Oh , if it is Ladislaw's present , said Mr. Farebrother , in a deep tone of comprehension , getting up and hunting . 
The box was found at last under a chiffonier , and Miss Noble grasped it with delight , saying , it was under a fender the last time . 
That is an affair of the heart with my aunt , said Mr. Farebrother , smiling at Dorothea , as he reseated himself . 
Mr. Ladislaw's shoes , I would , said Henrietta Noble . 
Dorothea made an attempt at smiling in return . 
She was surprised and annoyed to find that her heart was palpitating violently , and that it was quite useless to try after a recovery of her former animation . 
Mr. Farebrother , quick in perception , rose and said , It is true you must have half exhausted yourself in talking about Lydgate . 
That sort of work tells upon one after the excitement is over . 
He gave her his arm back to the Manor , but Dorothea did not attempt to speak , even when he said good night . 
The limit of resistance was reached , and she had sunk back helpless within the clutch of inescapable anguish . 
The fire of Dorothea's anger was not easily spent , and it flamed out in fitful returns of spurning reproach . 
She rose , and wrapped warm things around her , and seated herself in a great chair where she had often watched before . 
For now the thoughts came thickly . 
She began now to live through that yesterday morning deliberately again , forcing herself to dwell on every detail and its possible meaning . 
In her first outleap of jealous indignation and disgust , when quitting the hateful room , she had flung away all the mercy with which she had undertaken that visit . 
She had enveloped both Will and Rosamond in her burning scorn , and it seemed to her as if Rosamond were burned out of her sight forever . 
She said to her own irremediable grief , that it should make her more helpful , instead of driving her back from effort . 
She yearned towards the perfect Right , that it might make a throne within her , and rule her errant will . 
She opened her curtains , and looked out towards the bit of road that lay in view , with fields beyond outside the entrance gates . 
On the road there was a man with a bundle on his back and a woman carrying her baby in the field she could see figures moving perhaps the shepherd with his dog . 
Far off in the bending sky was the pearly light and she felt the largeness of the world and the manifold wakings of men to labor and endurance . 
What she would resolve to do that day did not yet seem quite clear , but something that she could achieve stirred her as with an approaching murmur which would soon gather distinctness . 
She took off the clothes which seemed to have some of the weariness of a hard watching in them , and began to make her toilet . 
Presently she rang for Tantripp , who came in her dressing gown . 
You'll kill yourself , you WILL . 
Anybody might think now you had a right to give yourself a little comfort . 
Don't be alarmed , Tantripp , said Dorothea , smiling . 
I have slept I am not ill . 
I shall be glad of a cup of coffee as soon as possible . 
And I want you to bring me my new dress and most likely I shall want my new bonnet to day . 
Tantripp would never have found the clew to this mystery . 
For the resolve was not easy . 
Nevertheless at eleven o'clock she was walking towards Middlemarch , having made up her mind that she would make as quietly and unnoticeably as possible her second attempt to see and save Rosamond . 
When Dorothea was again at Lydgate's door speaking to Martha , he was in the room close by with the door ajar , preparing to go out . 
He heard her voice , and immediately came to her . 
Do you think that Mrs. Lydgate can receive me this morning ? she said , having reflected that it would be better to leave out all allusion to her previous visit . 
When one is grateful for something too good for common thanks , writing is less unsatisfactory than speech one does not at least HEAR how inadequate the words are . 
It is I who have most to thank for , since you have let me take that place . 
You HAVE consented ? she said , suddenly doubting . 
Yes , the check is going to Bulstrode to day . 
She looked ill , but had recovered her usual quietude of manner , and Lydgate had feared to disturb her by any questions . 
I thought he looked rather battered and depressed . 
And Rosamond had made no reply . 
Rosamond dared not say no . 
She dared not with a tone of her voice touch the facts of yesterday . 
Nevertheless , in her new humiliating uncertainty she dared do nothing but comply . 
She did not say yes , but she rose and let Lydgate put a light shawl over her shoulders , while he said , I am going out immediately . 
Then something crossed her mind which prompted her to say , Pray tell Martha not to bring any one else into the drawing room . 
And Lydgate assented , thinking that he fully understood this wish . 
Rosamond , wrapping her soft shawl around her as she walked towards Dorothea , was inwardly wrapping her soul in cold reserve . 
Had Mrs. Casaubon come to say anything to her about Will ? If so , it was a liberty that Rosamond resented and she prepared herself to meet every word with polite impassibility . 
Will had bruised her pride too sorely for her to feel any compunction towards him and Dorothea her own injury seemed much the greater . 
Rosamond's eye was quick for faces she saw that Mrs. Casaubon's face looked pale and changed since yesterday , yet gentle , and like the firm softness of her hand . 
But she ceased thinking how anything would turn out merely wondering what would come . 
And Dorothea began to speak quite simply , gathering firmness as she went on . 
I had an errand yesterday which I did not finish that is why I am here again so soon . 
You will not think me too troublesome when I tell you that I came to talk to you about the injustice that has been shown towards Mr. Lydgate . 
Of course Mrs. Casaubon had the facts in her mind , but she was not going to speak of anything connected with them . 
That relief was too great for Rosamond to feel much else at the moment . 
She answered prettily , in the new ease of her soul I know you have been very good . 
I shall like to hear anything you will say to me about Tertius . 
The reason he told me was because I was very bold and asked him . 
I believed that he had never acted dishonorably , and I begged him to tell me the history . 
And I have told Mr. Farebrother , and Mr. Brooke , and Sir James Chettam they all believe in your husband . 
She said , with blushing embarrassment , Thank you you are very kind . 
And he felt that he had been so wrong not to pour out everything about this to you . 
But you will forgive him . 
He could speak to me because I am an indifferent person . 
And then I asked him if I might come to see you because I felt so much for his trouble and yours . 
That is why I came yesterday , and why I am come to day . 
And she had unconsciously laid her hand again on the little hand that she had pressed before . 
Poor Dorothea was feeling a great wave of her own sorrow returning over her her thought being drawn to the possible share that Will Ladislaw might have in Rosamond's mental tumult . 
What was the use of thinking about behavior after this crying ? And Dorothea looked almost as childish , with the neglected trace of a silent tear . 
Pride was broken down between these two . 
We were talking about your husband , Dorothea said , with some timidity . 
I thought his looks were sadly changed with suffering the other day . 
I had not seen him for many weeks before . 
He said he had been feeling very lonely in his trial but I think he would have borne it all better if he had been able to be quite open with you . 
Tertius is so angry and impatient if I say anything , said Rosamond , imagining that he had been complaining of her to Dorothea . 
He ought not to wonder that I object to speak to him on painful subjects . 
It was himself he blamed for not speaking , said Dorothea . 
Dorothea waited a little she had discerned a faint pleasure stealing over Rosamond's face . 
But there was no answer , and she went on , with a gathering tremor , Marriage is so unlike everything else . 
There is something even awful in the nearness it brings . 
I know it may be very dear but it murders our marriage and then the marriage stays with us like a murder and everything else is gone . 
She stopped in speechless agitation . 
not crying , but feeling as if she were being inwardly grappled . 
Her face had become of a deathlier paleness , her lips trembled , and she pressed her hands helplessly on the hands that lay under them . 
They moved apart , looking at each other . 
When you came in yesterday it was not as you thought , said Rosamond in the same tone . 
There was a movement of surprised attention in Dorothea She expected a vindication of Rosamond herself . 
He was telling me how he loved another woman , that I might know he could never love me , said Rosamond , getting more and more hurried as she went on . 
And now I think he hates me because because you mistook him yesterday . 
He says it is through me that you will think ill of him think that he is a false person . 
But it shall not be through me . 
He has never had any love for me I know he has not he has always thought slightly of me . 
He said yesterday that no other woman existed for him beside you . 
The blame of what happened is entirely mine . 
He said he could never explain to you because of me . 
He said you could never think well of him again . 
But now I have told you , and he cannot reproach me any more . 
Rosamond had delivered her soul under impulses which she had not known before . 
The revulsion of feeling in Dorothea was too strong to be called joy . 
Her immediate consciousness was one of immense sympathy without cheek she cared for Rosamond without struggle now , and responded earnestly to her last words No , he cannot reproach you any more . 
After they had been silent a little , she said You are not sorry that I came this morning ? No , you have been very good to me , said Rosamond . 
I did not think that you would be so good . 
I am not happy now . 
But better days will come . 
Your husband will be rightly valued . 
And he depends on you for comfort . 
The worst loss would be to lose that and you have not lost it , said Dorothea . 
She tried to thrust away the too overpowering thought of her own relief , lest she should fail to win some sign that Rosamond's affection was yearning back towards her husband . 
Perhaps there was a faint taste of jealousy in the question . 
A smile began to play over Dorothea's face as she said No , indeed ! How could you imagine it ? But here the door opened , and Lydgate entered . 
I am come back in my quality of doctor , he said . 
After I went away , I was haunted by two pale faces Mrs. Casaubon looked as much in need of care as you , Rosy . 
And I thought that I had not done my duty in leaving you together so when I had been to Coleman's I came home again . 
I noticed that you were walking , Mrs. Casaubon , and the sky has changed I think we may have rain . 
Mrs. Lydgate and I have chatted a great deal , and it is time for me to go . 
I have always been accused of being immoderate and saying too much . 
As Lydgate took her to the door she said nothing of Rosamond , but told him of Mr. Farebrother and the other friends who had listened with belief to his story . 
When he came back to Rosamond , she had already thrown herself on the sofa , in resigned fatigue . 
If you go to talk to her so often , you will be more discontented with me than ever ! Lydgate laughed at the so often . 
But has she made you any less discontented with me ? I think she has , said Rosamond , looking up in his face . 
How heavy your eyes are , Tertius and do push your hair back . 
He lifted up his large white hand to obey her , and felt thankful for this little mark of interest in him . 
Poor Rosamond's vagrant fancy had come back terribly scourged meek enough to nestle under the old despised shelter . 
And the shelter was still there Lydgate had accepted his narrowed lot with sad resignation . 
He had chosen this fragile creature , and had taken the burthen of her life upon his arms . 
He must walk as he could , carrying that burthen pitifully . 
My grief lies onward and my joy behind . 
Exiles notoriously feed much on hopes , and are unlikely to stay in banishment unless they are obliged . 
And there had come a reason quite irrespective of Dorothea , which seemed to make a journey to Middlemarch a sort of philanthropic duty . 
That was the object which Will stated to himself as a reason for coming down . 
Nothing , had done instead not the opera , or the converse of zealous politicians , or the flattering reception of his new hand in leading articles . 
Thus he had come down , foreseeing with confidence how almost everything would be in his familiar little world fearing , indeed , that there would be no surprises in his visit . 
Will Ladislaw was in one of those tangled crises which are commoner in experience than one might imagine , from the shallow absoluteness of men's judgments . 
And all the while there was no more foretaste of enjoyment in the life before him than if his limbs had been lopped off and he was making his fresh start on crutches . 
Thus he did nothing more decided than taking the Riverston coach . 
He came back again by it while it was still daylight , having made up his mind that he must go to Lydgate's that evening . 
The Rubicon , we know , was a very insignificant stream to look at its significance lay entirely in certain invisible conditions . 
Will felt as if he were forced to cross his small boundary ditch , and what he saw beyond it was not empire , but discontented subjection . 
And when she sat in silence bending over a bit of work , he innocently apologized for her in an indirect way by begging her to lean backward and rest . 
He saw it and secured it quickly , but as he went back to his inn he had no eagerness to unfold the paper . 
What Rosamond had written to him would probably deepen the painful impressions of the evening . 
Still , he opened and read it by his bed candle . 
There were only these few words in her neatly flowing hand I have told Mrs. Casaubon . 
She is not under any mistake about you . 
I told her because she came to see me and was very kind . 
You will have nothing to reproach me with now . 
I shall not have made any difference to you . 
The effect of these words was not quite all gladness . 
There might still remain in her mind a changed association with him which made an irremediable difference a lasting flaw . 
But now would Dorothea meet him in that world again ? CHAPTER LXXXIII . 
And now good morrow to our waking souls Which watch not one another out of fear For love all love of other sights controls , And makes one little room , an everywhere . 
To day was to be spent quite differently . 
What was there to be done in the village ? Oh dear ! nothing . 
But there were various subjects that Dorothea was trying to get clear upon , and she resolved to throw herself energetically into the gravest of all . 
Here was a weighty subject which , if she could but lay hold of it , would certainly keep her mind steady . 
Should she order the carriage and drive to Tipton ? No for some reason or other she preferred staying at Lowick . 
Perhaps a mere task was the best means something to which she must go doggedly . 
Dorothea set earnestly to work , bending close to her map , and uttering the names in an audible , subdued tone , which often got into a chime . 
Do sit down , said Dorothea , rolling a chair forward . 
Am I wanted for anything ? I shall be so glad if I can do anything . 
I will not stay , said Miss Noble , putting her hand into her small basket , and holding some article inside it nervously I have left a friend in the churchyard . 
She lapsed into her inarticulate sounds , and unconsciously drew forth the article which she was fingering . 
It was the tortoise shell lozenge box , and Dorothea felt the color mounting to her cheeks . 
Mr. Ladislaw , continued the timid little woman . 
He fears he has offended you , and has begged me to ask if you will see him for a few minutes . 
Dorothea did not answer on the instant it was crossing her mind that she could not receive him in this library , where her husband's prohibition seemed to dwell . 
She looked towards the window . 
Could she go out and meet him in the grounds ? The sky was heavy , and the trees had begun to shiver as at a coming storm . 
Besides , she shrank from going out to him . 
Do see him , Mrs. Casaubon , said Miss Noble , pathetically else I must go back and say No , and that will hurt him . 
Yes , I will see him , said Dorothea . 
Pray tell him to come . 
She did not move , and he came towards her with more doubt and timidity in his face than she had ever seen before . 
She looked as if there were a spell upon her , keeping her motionless and hindering her from unclasping her hands , while some intense , grave yearning was imprisoned within her eyes . 
Seeing that she did not put out her hand as usual , Will paused a yard from her and said with embarrassment , I am so grateful to you for seeing me . 
I wanted to see you , said Dorothea , having no other words at command . 
I fear you think me foolish and perhaps wrong for coming back so soon . 
I have been punished for my impatience . 
You know every one knows now a painful story about my parentage . 
I knew of it before I went away , and I always meant to tell you of it if if we ever met again . 
There was a slight movement in Dorothea , and she unclasped her hands , but immediately folded them over each other . 
But the affair is matter of gossip now , Will continued . 
I wished you to know that something connected with it something which happened before I went away , helped to bring me down here again . 
At least I thought it excused my coming . 
It was the idea of getting Bulstrode to apply some money to a public purpose some money which he had thought of giving me . 
He added , You know that it must be altogether painful to me . 
Yes yes I know , said Dorothea , hastily . 
I did not choose to accept an income from such a source . 
I was sure that you would not think well of me if I did so , said Will . 
Why should he mind saying anything of that sort to her now ? She knew that he had avowed his love for her . 
I felt that he broke off , nevertheless . 
You acted as I should have expected you to act , said Dorothea , her face brightening and her head becoming a little more erect on its beautiful stem . 
If it were a new hardship it would be a new reason for me to cling to you , said Dorothea , fervidly . 
You are sure to believe me better than I am in everything but one , said Will , giving way to his own feeling in the evidence of hers . 
I mean , in my truth to you . 
When I thought you doubted of that , I didn't care about anything that was left . 
I thought it was all over with me , and there was nothing to try for only things to endure . 
I don't doubt you any longer , said Dorothea , putting out her hand a vague fear for him impelling her unutterable affection . 
He took her hand and raised it to his lips with something like a sob . 
But he stood with his hat and gloves in the other hand , and might have done for the portrait of a Royalist . 
Still it was difficult to loose the hand , and Dorothea , withdrawing it in a confusion that distressed her , looked and moved away . 
It must be confessed that he felt very happy at that moment leaning on the chair . 
He was not much afraid of anything that she might feel now . 
They stood silent , not looking at each other , but looking at the evergreens which were being tossed , and were showing the pale underside of their leaves against the blackening sky . 
Will never enjoyed the prospect of a storm so much it delivered him from the necessity of going away . 
Leaves and little branches were hurled about , and the thunder was getting nearer . 
The light was more and more sombre , but there came a flash of lightning which made them start and look at each other , and then smile . 
Dorothea began to say what she had been thinking of . 
That was a wrong thing for you to say , that you would have had nothing to try for . 
If we had lost our own chief good , other people's good would remain , and that is worth trying for . 
I seemed to see that more clearly than ever , when I was the most wretched . 
I can hardly think how I could have borne the trouble , if that feeling had not come to me to make strength . 
You have never felt the sort of misery I felt , said Will the misery of knowing that you must despise me . 
But I have felt worse it was worse to think ill Dorothea had begun impetuously , but broke off . 
He had the sense that whatever she said was uttered in the vision of a fatality that kept them apart . 
He was silent a moment , and then said passionately We may at least have the comfort of speaking to each other without disguise . 
Since I must go away since we must always be divided you may think of me as one on the brink of the grave . 
While he was speaking there came a vivid flash of lightning which lit each of them up for the other and the light seemed to be the terror of a hopeless love . 
Then they turned their faces towards each other , with the memory of his last words in them , and they did not loose each other's hands . 
There is no hope for me , said Will . 
It is impossible for us ever to belong to each other . 
It is perhaps base of me to have asked for a word from you . 
I meant to go away into silence , but I have not been able to do what I meant . 
Don't be sorry , said Dorothea , in her clear tender tones . 
I would rather share all the trouble of our parting . 
Her lips trembled , and so did his . 
It was never known which lips were the first to move towards the other lips but they kissed tremblingly , and then they moved apart . 
Will stood still an instant looking at her , then seated himself beside her , and laid his hand on hers , which turned itself upward to be clasped . 
They sat in that way without looking at each other , until the rain abated and began to fall in stillness . 
Each had been full of thoughts which neither of them could begin to utter . 
But when the rain was quiet , Dorothea turned to look at Will . 
It is as fatal as a murder or any other horror that divides people , he burst out again it is more intolerable to have our life maimed by petty accidents . 
No don't say that your life need not be maimed , said Dorothea , gently . 
Yes , it must , said Will , angrily . 
It is cruel of you to speak in that way as if there were any comfort . 
You may see beyond the misery of it , but I don't . 
It is unkind it is throwing back my love for you as if it were a trifle , to speak in that way in the face of the fact . 
We can never be married . 
Some time we might , said Dorothea , in a trembling voice . 
When ? said Will , bitterly . 
I can see that clearly enough . 
I could not offer myself to any woman , even if she had no luxuries to renounce . 
Dorothea's heart was full of something that she wanted to say , and yet the words were too difficult . 
She was wholly possessed by them at that moment debate was mute within her . 
And it was very hard that she could not say what she wanted to say . 
Will was looking out of the window angrily . 
If he would have looked at her and not gone away from her side , she thought everything would have been easier . 
At last he turned , still resting against the chair , and stretching his hand automatically towards his hat , said with a sort of exasperation , Good by . 
Though it be songe of old and yonge , That I sholde be to blame , Theyrs be the charge , that spoke so large In hurtynge of my name . 
The ladies also talked politics , though more fitfully . 
Lady Chettam thought that such conduct was very reprehensible , and remembered that Mrs. Truberry's mother was a Miss Walsingham of Melspring . 
Celia confessed it was nicer to be Lady than Mrs. , and that Dodo never minded about precedence if she could have her own way . 
My dear Celia , said the Dowager , James's title is worth far more than any new earldom . 
I never wished his father to be anything else than Sir James . 
Oh , I only meant about Arthur's little tooth , said Celia , comfortably . 
But see , here is my uncle coming . 
She tripped off to meet her uncle , while Sir James and Mr. Cadwallader came forward to make one group with the ladies . 
The Bill , eh ? ah ! said Mr. Brooke , with a mild distractedness of manner . 
Thrown out , you know , eh ? The Lords are going too far , though . 
They'll have to pull up . 
Sad news , you know . 
I mean , here at home sad news . 
But you must not blame me , Chettam . 
What is the matter ? said Sir James . 
Not another gamekeeper shot , I hope ? It's what I should expect , when a fellow like Trapping Bass is let off so easily . 
Severity is all very well , but it's a great deal easier when you've got somebody to do it for you . 
You have a soft place in your heart yourself , you know you're not a Draco , a Jeffreys , that sort of thing . 
Mr. Brooke was evidently in a state of nervous perturbation . 
The gamekeeper is not shot that is settled . 
What is it , then ? Well , it's a very trying thing , you know , said Mr. Brooke . 
I'm glad you and the Rector are here it's a family matter but you will help us all to bear it , Cadwallader . 
I've got to break it to you , my dear . 
Here Mr. Brooke looked at Celia You've no notion what it is , you know . 
And , Chettam , it will annoy you uncommonly but , you see , you have not been able to hinder it , any more than I have . 
There's something singular in things they come round , you know . 
It must be about Dodo , said Celia , who had been used to think of her sister as the dangerous part of the family machinery . 
She had seated herself on a low stool against her husband's knee . 
For God's sake let us hear what it is ! said Sir James . 
Well , you know , Chettam , I couldn't help Casaubon's will it was a sort of will to make things worse . 
Exactly , said Sir James , hastily . 
Sir James was almost white with anger , but he did not speak . 
Merciful heaven ! said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
Not to YOUNG Ladislaw ? Mr. Brooke nodded , saying , Yes to Ladislaw , and then fell into a prudential silence . 
You see , Humphrey ! said Mrs. Cadwallader , waving her arm towards her husband . 
Another time you will admit that I have some foresight or rather you will contradict me and be just as blind as ever . 
YOU supposed that the young gentleman was gone out of the country . 
Yesterday , said Mr. Brooke , meekly . 
Dorothea sent for me , you know . 
It had come about quite suddenly neither of them had any idea two days ago not any idea , you know . 
There's something singular in things . 
But Dorothea is quite determined it is no use opposing . 
I put it strongly to her . 
I did my duty , Chettam . 
But she can act as she likes , you know . 
Really , James , that would have been very disagreeable , said Celia . 
Look at the affair more quietly , said Mr. Cadwallader , sorry to see his good natured friend so overmastered by anger . 
If Ladislaw had had a spark of honor he would have gone out of the country at once , and never shown his face in it again . 
However , I am not surprised . 
The day after Casaubon's funeral I said what ought to be done . 
But I was not listened to . 
You wanted what was impossible , you know , Chettam , said Mr. Brooke . 
You wanted him shipped off . 
I told you Ladislaw was not to be done as we liked with he had his ideas . 
He was a remarkable fellow I always said he was a remarkable fellow . 
Yes , said Sir James , unable to repress a retort , it is rather a pity you formed that high opinion of him . 
We are indebted to that for his being lodged in this neighborhood . 
We are indebted to that for seeing a woman like Dorothea degrading herself by marrying him . 
Sir James made little stoppages between his clauses , the words not coming easily . 
Sir James ended emphatically , turning aside and crossing his leg . 
I pointed everything out to her , said Mr. Brooke , apologetically I mean the poverty , and abandoning her position . 
I put it strongly to her . 
But I advise you to talk to Dorothea herself . 
The fact is , she has a dislike to Casaubon's property . 
You will hear what she says , you know . 
No excuse me I shall not , said Sir James , with more coolness . 
I cannot bear to see her again it is too painful . 
It hurts me too much that a woman like Dorothea should have done what is wrong . 
Be just , Chettam , said the easy , large lipped Rector , who objected to all this unnecessary discomfort . 
But I think you should not condemn it as a wrong action , in the strict sense of the word . 
Yes , I do , answered Sir James . 
I think that Dorothea commits a wrong action in marrying Ladislaw . 
My dear fellow , we are rather apt to consider an act wrong because it is unpleasant to us , said the Rector , quietly . 
Like many men who take life easily , he had the knack of saying a home truth occasionally to those who felt themselves virtuously out of temper . 
Sir James took out his handkerchief and began to bite the corner . 
It is very dreadful of Dodo , though , said Celia , wishing to justify her husband . 
She said she NEVER WOULD marry again not anybody at all . 
I heard her say the same thing myself , said Lady Chettam , majestically , as if this were royal evidence . 
Oh , there is usually a silent exception in such cases , said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
The only wonder to me is , that any of you are surprised . 
You did nothing to hinder it . 
If you would have had Lord Triton down here to woo her with his philanthropy , he might have carried her off before the year was over . 
There was no safety in anything else . 
Mr. Casaubon had prepared all this as beautifully as possible . 
He made himself disagreeable or it pleased God to make him so and then he dared her to contradict him . 
It's the way to make any trumpery tempting , to ticket it at a high price in that way . 
I don't know what you mean by wrong , Cadwallader , said Sir James , still feeling a little stung , and turning round in his chair towards the Rector . 
He's not a man we can take into the family . 
At least , I must speak for myself , he continued , carefully keeping his eyes off Mr. Brooke . 
I suppose others will find his society too pleasant to care about the propriety of the thing . 
Well , you know , Chettam , said Mr. Brooke , good humoredly , nursing his leg , I can't turn my back on Dorothea . 
I must be a father to her up to a certain point . 
I said , My dear , I won't refuse to give you away . 
I had spoken strongly before . 
But I can cut off the entail , you know . 
It will cost money and be troublesome but I can do it , you know . 
Mr. Brooke nodded at Sir James , and felt that he was both showing his own force of resolution and propitiating what was just in the Baronet's vexation . 
He had hit on a more ingenious mode of parrying than he was aware of . 
He had touched a motive of which Sir James was ashamed . 
He was convinced that the marriage was a fatal one for Dorothea . 
Hence when Mr. Brooke noddingly appealed to that motive , Sir James felt a sudden embarrassment there was a stoppage in his throat he even blushed . 
He had found more words than usual in the first jet of his anger , but Mr. Brooke's propitiation was more clogging to his tongue than Mr. Cadwallader's caustic hint . 
I can do nothing to hinder it , Cadwallader , he added , turning for a little countenance toward the Rector , who said I should not make any fuss about it . 
If she likes to be poor , that is her affair . 
Nobody would have said anything if she had married the young fellow because he was rich . 
Plenty of beneficed clergy are poorer than they will be . 
Upon my word , I must take Ladislaw's part until I hear more harm of him . 
Humphrey , that is all sophistry , and you know it , said his wife . 
Everything is all one that is the beginning and end with you . 
Elinor cannot be said to have descended below her rank . 
It is difficult to say what Mr. Ladislaw is , eh , James ? Sir James gave a small grunt , which was less respectful than his usual mode of answering his mother . 
Celia looked up at him like a thoughtful kitten . 
It must be admitted that his blood is a frightful mixture ! said Mrs. Cadwallader . 
It is time for us to go . 
After all , he is a pretty sprig , said Mrs. Cadwallader , rising too , and wishing to make amends . 
He is like the fine old Crichley portraits before the idiots came in . 
I'll go with you , said Mr. Brooke , starting up with alacrity . 
Oh , of course , if you like , said Sir James , pulling down his waistcoat , but unable yet to adjust his face good humoredly . 
That is to say , if it is not to meet anybody else . 
No , no , no , said Mr. Brooke , understanding the condition . 
Dorothea would not come , you know , unless you had been to see her . 
Yes , it is very important , said Celia . 
Remember , Celia , I cannot see her , said Sir James . 
Not if she gave up marrying ? What is the use of saying that ? however , I'm going to the stables . 
I'll tell Briggs to bring the carriage round . 
Celia thought it was of great use , if not to say that , at least to take a journey to Lowick in order to influence Dorothea's mind . 
And Celia the matron naturally felt more able to advise her childless sister . 
She had prefigured to herself , even with exaggeration , the disgust of her friends , and she had even feared that Celia might be kept aloof from her . 
O Kitty , I am delighted to see you ! said Dorothea , putting her hands on Celia's shoulders , and beaming on her . 
I almost thought you would not come to me . 
I have not brought Arthur , because I was in a hurry , said Celia , and they sat down on two small chairs opposite each other , with their knees touching . 
You know , Dodo , it is very bad , said Celia , in her placid guttural , looking as prettily free from humors as possible . 
You have disappointed us all so . 
And I can't think that it ever WILL be you never can go and live in that way . 
And then there are all your plans ! You never can have thought of that . 
James would have taken any trouble for you , and you might have gone on all your life doing what you liked . 
On the contrary , dear , said Dorothea , I never could do anything that I liked . 
I have never carried out any plan yet . 
Because you always wanted things that wouldn't do . 
But other plans would have come . 
And how can you marry Mr. Ladislaw , that we none of us ever thought you COULD marry ? It shocks James so dreadfully . 
And then it is all so different from what you have always been . 
I suppose it is because you must be making yourself uncomfortable in some way or other . 
Well , it is very serious , Dodo , said Celia , becoming more impressive . 
How will you live ? and you will go away among queer people . 
Dear Celia , said Dorothea , with tender gravity , if you don't ever see me , it will not be my fault . 
Yes , it will , said Celia , with the same touching distortion of her small features . 
But you always were wrong only I can't help loving you . 
And nobody can think where you will live where can you go ? I am going to London , said Dorothea . 
How can you always live in a street ? And you will be so poor . 
I could give you half my things , only how can I , when I never see you ? Bless you , Kitty , said Dorothea , with gentle warmth . 
Take comfort perhaps James will forgive me some time . 
But it would be much better if you would not be married , said Celia , drying her eyes , and returning to her argument then there would be nothing uncomfortable . 
And you would not do what nobody thought you could do . 
James always said you ought to be a queen but this is not at all being like a queen . 
You know what mistakes you have always been making , Dodo , and this is another . 
Nobody thinks Mr. Ladislaw a proper husband for you . 
And you SAID YOU would never be married again . 
It is quite true that I might be a wiser person , Celia , said Dorothea , and that I might have done something better , if I had been better . 
But this is what I am going to do . 
I have promised to marry Mr. Ladislaw and I am going to marry him . 
The tone in which Dorothea said this was a note that Celia had long learned to recognize . 
She was silent a few moments , and then said , as if she had dismissed all contest , Is he very fond of you , Dodo ? I hope so . 
I am very fond of him . 
That is nice , said Celia , comfortably . 
Only I rather you had such a sort of husband as James is , with a place very near , that I could drive to . 
Dorothea smiled , and Celia looked rather meditative . 
Presently she said , I cannot think how it all came about . 
Celia thought it would be pleasant to hear the story . 
I dare say not , said Dorothea , pinching her sister's chin . 
If you knew how it came about , it would not seem wonderful to you . 
Can't you tell me ? said Celia , settling her arms cozily . 
No , dear , you would have to feel with me , else you would never know . 
And first among themselves , Mr. Blindman , the foreman , said , I see clearly that this man is a heretic . 
Then said Mr. No good , Away with such a fellow from the earth ! Ay , said Mr. Malice , for I hate the very look of him . 
Then said Mr. Love lust , I could never endure him . 
Nor I , said Mr. Live loose for he would be always condemning my way . 
Hang him , hang him , said Mr. Heady . 
A sorry scrub , said Mr. High mind . 
My heart riseth against him , said Mr. Enmity . 
He is a rogue , said Mr. Liar . 
Hanging is too good for him , said Mr. Cruelty . 
Let us despatch him out of the way said Mr. Hate light . 
Then said Mr. Implacable , Might I have all the world given me , I could not be reconciled to him therefore let us forthwith bring him in guilty of death . 
He felt shrouded by her doubt he got strength to face her from the sense that she could not yet feel warranted in pronouncing that worst condemnation on him . 
Perhaps but concealment had been the habit of his life , and the impulse to confession had no power against the dread of a deeper humiliation . 
She had sent her daughters away to board at a school on the coast , that this crisis might be hidden from them as far as possible . 
Tell me anything that you would like to have me do , Harriet , Bulstrode had said to her I mean with regard to arrangements of property . 
It is my intention not to sell the land I possess in this neighborhood , but to leave it to you as a safe provision . 
If you have any wish on such subjects , do not conceal it from me . 
I SHOULD like to do something for my brother's family , Nicholas and I think we are bound to make some amends to Rosamond and her husband . 
Walter says Mr. Lydgate must leave the town , and his practice is almost good for nothing , and they have very little left to settle anywhere with . 
I would rather do without something for ourselves , to make some amends to my poor brother's family . 
Mrs. Bulstrode did not wish to go nearer to the facts than in the phrase make some amends knowing that her husband must understand her . 
He had a particular reason , which she was not aware of , for wincing under her suggestion . 
He hesitated before he said It is not possible to carry out your wish in the way you propose , my dear . 
Mr. Lydgate has virtually rejected any further service from me . 
He has returned the thousand pounds which I lent him . 
Mrs. Casaubon advanced him the sum for that purpose . 
The letter seemed to cut Mrs. Bulstrode severely . 
The mention of Mrs. Casaubon's loan seemed a reflection of that public feeling which held it a matter of course that every one would avoid a connection with her husband . 
She was silent for some time and the tears fell one after the other , her chin trembling as she wiped them away . 
Bulstrode , sitting opposite to her , ached at the sight of that grief worn face , which two months before had been bright and blooming . 
It had aged to keep sad company with his own withered features . 
And it would , I think , be beneficial to you it would be an advantageous way of managing the land which I mean to be yours . 
Garth once thought of undertaking the management of Stone Court in order to place your nephew Fred there . 
The stock was to remain as it is , and they were to pay a certain share of the profits instead of an ordinary rent . 
That would be a desirable beginning for the young man , in conjunction with his employment under Garth . 
Would it be a satisfaction to you ? Yes , it would , said Mrs. Bulstrode , with some return of energy . 
Poor Walter is so cast down I would try anything in my power to do him some good before I go away . 
We have always been brother and sister . 
You must state to him that the land is virtually yours , and that he need have no transactions with me . 
Communications can be made through Standish . 
I mention this , because Garth gave up being my agent . 
I can put into your hands a paper which he himself drew up , stating conditions and you can propose his renewed acceptance of them . 
I think it is not unlikely that he will accept when you propose the thing for the sake of your nephew . 
Il existe un embaumement d'amour . 
C'est de Daphnis et Chloe que sont faits Philemon et Baucis . 
Cette vieillesse la , ressemblance du soir avec l'aurore . 
VICTOR HUGO L'homme qui rit . 
Mrs. Garth , hearing Caleb enter the passage about tea time , opened the parlor door and said , There you are , Caleb . 
Oh yes , a good dinner cold mutton and I don't know what . 
Where is Mary ? In the garden with Letty , I think . 
No , no I'm only going to Mary a minute . 
Mary was in a grassy corner of the garden , where there was a swing loftily hung between two pear trees . 
Seeing her father , Mary left the swing and went to meet him , pushing back the pink kerchief and smiling afar off at him with the involuntary smile of loving pleasure . 
I came to look for you , Mary , said Mr. Garth . 
Let us walk about a bit . 
She put her arm within his , and they turned by the row of nut trees . 
Not a sad while , father I mean to be merry , said Mary , laughingly . 
I have been single and merry for four and twenty years and more I suppose it will not be quite as long again as that . 
Now , father , you did praise him last Wednesday . 
You said he had an uncommon notion of stock , and a good eye for things . 
Did I ? said Caleb , rather slyly . 
Yes , I put it all down , and the date , anno Domini , and everything , said Mary . 
You like things to be neatly booked . 
And then his behavior to you , father , is really good he has a deep respect for you and it is impossible to have a better temper than Fred has . 
Ay , ay you want to coax me into thinking him a fine match . 
No , indeed , father . 
I don't love him because he is a fine match . 
What for , then ? Oh , dear , because I have always loved him . 
I should never like scolding any one else so well and that is a point to be thought of in a husband . 
Your mind is quite settled , then , Mary ? said Caleb , returning to his first tone . 
because , better late than never . 
A woman must not force her heart she'll do a man no good by that . 
My feelings have not changed , father , said Mary , calmly . 
I shall be constant to Fred as long as he is constant to me . 
I don't think either of us could spare the other , or like any one else better , however much we might admire them . 
It would make too great a difference to us like seeing all the old places altered , and changing the name for everything . 
We must wait for each other a long while but Fred knows that . 
Instead of speaking immediately , Caleb stood still and screwed his stick on the grassy walk . 
Then he said , with emotion in his voice , Well , I've got a bit of news . 
What do you think of Fred going to live at Stone Court , and managing the land there ? How can that ever be , father ? said Mary , wonderingly . 
He would manage it for his aunt Bulstrode . 
The poor woman has been to me begging and praying . 
She wants to do the lad good , and it might be a fine thing for him . 
With saving , he might gradually buy the stock , and he has a turn for farming . 
Oh , Fred would be so happy ! It is too good to believe . 
Fred had need be careful . 
Perhaps it is too much , father , said Mary , checked in her joy . 
There would be no happiness in bringing you any fresh trouble . 
Nay , nay work is my delight , child , when it doesn't vex your mother . 
He'll be coming by and by , so I wanted to tell you first , because I think you'd like to tell HIM by yourselves . 
After that , I could talk it well over with him , and we could go into business and the nature of things . 
Oh , you dear good father ! cried Mary , putting her hands round her father's neck , while he bent his head placidly , willing to be caressed . 
I wonder if any other girl thinks her father the best man in the world ! Nonsense , child you'll think your husband better . 
Impossible , said Mary , relapsing into her usual tone husbands are an inferior class of men , who require keeping in order . 
When they were entering the house with Letty , who had run to join them , Mary saw Fred at the orchard gate , and went to meet him . 
What fine clothes you wear , you extravagant youth ! said Mary , as Fred stood still and raised his hat to her with playful formality . 
You are not learning economy . 
Now that is too bad , Mary , said Fred . 
Just look at the edges of these coat cuffs ! It is only by dint of good brushing that I look respectable . 
I am saving up three suits one for a wedding suit . 
How very droll you will look ! like a gentleman in an old fashion book . 
Oh no , they will keep two years . 
Two years ! be reasonable , Fred , said Mary , turning to walk . 
Why not ? One lives on them better than on unflattering ones . 
If we can't be married in two years , the truth will be quite bad enough when it comes . 
I have heard a story of a young gentleman who once encouraged flattering expectations , and they did him harm . 
Mary , if you've got something discouraging to tell me , I shall bolt I shall go into the house to Mr. Garth . 
I am out of spirits . 
My father is so cut up home is not like itself . 
I can't bear any more bad news . 
Oh , I could be a tremendously good fellow then , Mary , and we could be married directly . 
Pray don't joke , Mary , said Fred , with strong feeling . 
Tell me seriously that all this is true , and that you are happy because of it because you love me best . 
It is all true , Fred , and I am happy because of it because I love you best , said Mary , in a tone of obedient recitation . 
Every limit is a beginning as well as an ending . 
Some set out , like Crusaders of old , with a glorious equipment of hope and enthusiasm and get broken by the way , wanting patience with each other and the world . 
All who have oared for Fred Vincy and Mary Garth will like to know that these two made no such failure , but achieved a solid mutual happiness . 
Fred surprised his neighbors in various ways . 
But when Mary wrote a little book for her boys , called Stories of Great Men , taken from Plutarch , and had it printed and published by Gripp Co . 
Moreover , Fred remained unswervingly steady . 
Some years after his marriage he told Mary that his happiness was half owing to Farebrother , who gave him a strong pull up at the right moment . 
Mrs. Garth pronounced that both were alike naughty , but that boys were undoubtedly stronger , could run faster , and throw with more precision to a greater distance . 
With this oracular sentence Ben was well satisfied , not minding the naughtiness but Letty took it ill , her feeling of superiority being stronger than her muscles . 
Nevertheless , they were found quite forward enough when they went to school perhaps , because they had liked nothing so well as being with their mother . 
He was ten times worthier of you than I was , Fred could now say to her , magnanimously . 
To be sure he was , Mary answered and for that reason he could do better without me . 
Lydgate's hair never became white . 
He died when he was only fifty , leaving his wife and children provided for by a heavy insurance on his life . 
His skill was relied on by many paying patients , but he always regarded himself as a failure he had not done what he once meant to do . 
His acquaintances thought him enviable to have so charming a wife , and nothing happened to shake their opinion . 
Rosamond never committed a second compromising indiscretion . 
She simply continued to be mild in her temper , inflexible in her judgment , disposed to admonish her husband , and able to frustrate him by stratagem . 
In brief , Lydgate was what is called a successful man . 
But he died prematurely of diphtheria , and Rosamond afterwards married an elderly and wealthy physician , who took kindly to her four children . 
He once called her his basil plant and when she asked for an explanation , said that basil was a plant which had flourished wonderfully on a murdered man's brains . 
Rosamond had a placid but strong answer to such speeches . 
Why then had he chosen her ? It was a pity he had not had Mrs. Ladislaw , whom he was always praising and placing above her . 
And thus the conversation ended with the advantage on Rosamond's side . 
They were bound to each other by a love stronger than any impulses which could have marred it . 
But this opinion of his did not cause a lasting alienation and the way in which the family was made whole again was characteristic of all concerned . 
But that morning something exciting had happened at the Hall . 
Dorothea has a little boy . 
And you will not let me go and see her . 
And I am sure she wants to see me . 
And she will not know what to do with the baby she will do wrong things with it . 
And they thought she would die . 
I will take you to town to morrow if you wish it . 
And Celia did wish it . 
I would let things remain as they are . 
Mr. Brooke felt so much surprised that he did not at once find out how much he was relieved by the sense that he was not expected to do anything in particular . 
Such being the bent of Celia's heart , it was inevitable that Sir James should consent to a reconciliation with Dorothea and her husband . 
Where women love each other , men learn to smother their mutual dislike . 
Those who had not seen anything of Dorothea usually observed that she could not have been a nice woman , else she would not have married either the one or the other . 
Certainly those determining acts of her life were not ideally beautiful . 
For there is no creature whose inward being is so strong that it is not greatly determined by what lies outside it . 
Her finely touched spirit had still its fine issues , though they were not widely visible . 
Her full nature , like that river of which Cyrus broke the strength , spent itself in channels which had no great name on the earth . 
