Prepared by Donald Lainson charlie idirect . 
com OUR MUTUAL FRIEND Charles Dickens CONTENTS Book the First THE CUP AND THE LIP . 
MR WEGG LOOKS AFTER HIMSELF . 
MR AND MRS BOFFIN IN CONSULTATION . 
THE SWEAT OF AN HONEST MAN'S BROW . 
TRACKING THE BIRD OF PREY . 
THE BIRD OF PREY BROUGHT DOWN . 
A DISMAL SWAMP Book the Second BIRDS OF A FEATHER . 
A RIDDLE WITHOUT AN ANSWER . 
IN WHICH A FRIENDLY MOVE IS ORIGINATED . 
IN WHICH AN INNOCENT ELOPEMENT OCCURS . 
IN WHICH THE ORPHAN MAKES HIS WILL . 
SOME AFFAIRS OF THE HEART . 
A SOLO AND A DUETT . 
THE WHOLE CASE SO FAR . 
AN ANNIVERSARY OCCASION Book the Third A LONG LANE . 
A RESPECTED FRIEND IN A NEW ASPECT . 
THE SAME RESPECTED FRIEND IN MORE ASPECTS THAN ONE . 
A HAPPY RETURN OF THE DAY . 
THE GOLDEN DUSTMAN FALLS INTO BAD COMPANY . 
THE GOLDEN DUSTMAN FALLS INTO WORSE COMPANY . 
THE FRIENDLY MOVE TAKES UP A STRONG POSITION . 
THE END OF A LONG JOURNEY . 
SOMEBODY BECOMES THE SUBJECT OF A PREDICTION . 
GIVE A DOG A BAD NAME , AND HANG HIM . 
MR WEGG PREPARES A GRINDSTONE FOR MR BOFFIN'S NOSE . 
THE GOLDEN DUSTMAN AT HIS WORST . 
THE FEAST OF THE THREE HOBGOBLINS . 
A SOCIAL CHORUS Book the Fourth A TURNING . 
THE GOLDEN DUSTMAN RISES A LITTLE . 
THE GOLDEN DUSTMAN SINKS AGAIN . 
BETTER TO BE ABEL THAN CAIN . 
A FEW GRAINS OF PEPPER . 
THE DOLLS' DRESSMAKER DISCOVERS A WORD . 
EFFECT IS GIVEN TO THE DOLLS' DRESSMAKER'S DISCOVERY . 
SHOWING HOW THE GOLDEN DUSTMAN HELPED TO SCATTER DUST . 
CHECKMATE TO THE FRIENDLY MOVE . 
WHAT WAS CAUGHT IN THE TRAPS THAT WERE SET . 
PERSONS AND THINGS IN GENERAL . 
She watched his face as earnestly as he watched the river . 
But , in the intensity of her look there was a touch of dread or horror . 
So with every lithe action of the girl , with every turn of her wrist , perhaps most of all with her look of dread or horror they were things of usage . 
'Keep her out , Lizzie . 
Keep her well afore the sweep of it . 
Trusting to the girl's skill and making no use of the rudder , he eyed the coming tide with an absorbed attention . 
So the girl eyed him . 
This caught the girl's eye , and she shivered . 
'What ails you ? said the man , immediately aware of it , though so intent on the advancing waters 'I see nothing afloat . 
The red light was gone , the shudder was gone , and his gaze , which had come back to the boat for a moment , travelled away again . 
Wheresoever the strong tide met with an impediment , his gaze paused for an instant . 
After a darkening hour or so , suddenly the rudder lines tightened in his hold , and he steered hard towards the Surrey shore . 
It was not until now that the upper half of the man came back into the boat . 
His arms were wet and dirty , and he washed them over the side . 
In his right hand he held something , and he washed that in the river too . 
He chinked it once , and he blew upon it once , and he spat upon it once , 'for luck , he hoarsely said before he put it in his pocket . 
'Lizzie ! The girl turned her face towards him with a start , and rowed in silence . 
Her face was very pale . 
He was a hook nosed man , and with that and his bright eyes and his ruffled head , bore a certain likeness to a roused bird of prey . 
'Take that thing off your face . 
'Here ! and give me hold of the sculls . 
I'll take the rest of the spell . 
'No , no , father ! No ! I can't indeed . 
Father ! I cannot sit so near it ! He was moving towards her to change places , but her terrified expostulation stopped him and he resumed his seat . 
'What hurt can it do you ? 'None , none . 
But I cannot bear it . 
'It's my belief you hate the sight of the very river . 
'I I do not like it , father . 
It escaped his attention , for he was glancing over the stern at something the boat had in tow . 
The very basket that you slept in , the tide washed ashore . 
The very rockers that I put it upon to make a cradle of it , I cut out of a piece of wood that drifted from some ship or another . 
'Ah ! replied the other , drily . 
'So you're out , are you ? 'Yes , pardner . 
There was now a tender yellow moonlight on the river , and the new comer , keeping half his boat's length astern of the other boat looked hard at its track . 
I a'most think you're like the wulturs , pardner , and scent 'em out . 
He spoke in a dropped voice , and with more than one glance at Lizzie who had pulled on her hood again . 
Both men then looked with a weird unholy interest in the wake of Gaffer's boat . 
'Easy does it , betwixt us . 
Shall I take him aboard , pardner ? 'No , said the other . 
'I have been swallowing too much of that word , Pardner . 
I am no pardner of yours . 
'Since when was you no pardner of mine , Gaffer Hexam Esquire ? 'Since you was accused of robbing a man . 
Accused of robbing a live man ! said Gaffer , with great indignation . 
'And what if I had been accused of robbing a dead man , Gaffer ? 'You COULDN'T do it . 
'Couldn't you , Gaffer ? 'No . 
Has a dead man any use for money ? Is it possible for a dead man to have money ? What world does a dead man belong to ? 'Tother world . 
What world does money belong to ? This world . 
But it's worthy of the sneaking spirit that robs a live man . 
'I'll tell you what it is . 
I'll tell you what it is . 
You got off with a short time of it for putting you're hand in the pocket of a sailor , a live sailor . 
Make the most of it and think yourself lucky , but don't think after that to come over ME with your pardners . 
We have worked together in time past , but we work together no more in time present nor yet future . 
Cast off ! 'Gaffer ! If you think to get rid of me this way . 
Cast off ! Pull you , Lizzie . 
Pull home , since you won't let your father pull . 
Lizzie shot ahead , and the other boat fell astern . 
A neophyte might have fancied that the ripples passing over it were dreadfully like faint changes of expression on a sightless face but Gaffer was no neophyte and had no fancies . 
Chapter THE MAN FROM SOMEWHERE Mr and Mrs Veneering were bran new people in a bran new house in a bran new quarter of London . 
Everything about the Veneerings was spick and span new . 
And what was observable in the furniture , was observable in the Veneerings the surface smelt a little too much of the workshop and was a trifle sticky . 
The name of this article was Twemlow . 
Being first cousin to Lord Snigsworth , he was in frequent requisition , and at many houses might be said to represent the dining table in its normal state . 
Mr and Mrs Veneering , for example , arranging a dinner , habitually started with Twemlow , and then put leaves in him , or added guests to him . 
Sometimes , the table consisted of Twemlow and half a dozen leaves sometimes , of Twemlow and a dozen leaves sometimes , Twemlow was pulled out to his utmost extent of twenty leaves . 
But , it was not this which steeped the feeble soul of Twemlow in confusion . 
This he was used to , and could take soundings of . 
Immediately upon this , Twemlow received an invitation to dine with Veneering , and dined the man being of the party . 
Immediately upon that , Twemlow received an invitation to dine with the man , and dined Veneering being of the party . 
were the objects of Mrs Veneering's most devoted affection and tender confidence . 
Thus it had come about , that Mr Twemlow had said to himself in his lodgings , with his hand to his forehead 'I must not think of this . 
This is enough to soften any man's brain , and yet was always thinking of it , and could never form a conclusion . 
This evening the Veneerings give a banquet . 
Eleven leaves in the Twemlow fourteen in company all told . 
Four pigeon breasted retainers in plain clothes stand in line in the hall . 
Mr Veneering welcomes his dear Twemlow . 
Mrs Veneering does not expect that Mr Twemlow can in nature care much for such insipid things as babies , but so old a friend must please to look at baby . 
'Ah ! You will know the friend of your family better , Tootleums , says Mr Veneering , nodding emotionally at that new article , 'when you begin to take notice . 
He then begs to make his dear Twemlow known to his two friends , Mr Boots and Mr Brewer and clearly has no distinct idea which is which . 
But now a fearful circumstance occurs . 
'Mis ter and Mis sus Podsnap ! 'My dear , says Mr Veneering to Mrs Veneering , with an air of much friendly interest , while the door stands open , 'the Podsnaps . 
Charming house you have here . 
I hope we are not late . 
'Let me , says the large man , trying to attract the attention of his wife in the distance , 'have the pleasure of presenting Mrs Podsnap to her host . 
Mrs Veneering equally resents the imputation of being the wife of Twemlow . 
As to Twemlow , he is so sensible of being a much better bred man than Veneering , that he considers the large man an offensive ass . 
Boots and Brewer , thinking him indisposed , whisper , 'Man faint . 
But he is only stunned by the unvanquishable difficulty of his existence . 
Revived by soup , Twemlow discourses mildly of the Court Circular with Boots and Brewer . 
'At Snigsworthy Park ? Veneering inquires . 
'At Snigsworthy , Twemlow rejoins . 
Boots and Brewer regard this as a man to be cultivated and Veneering is clear that he is a renumerative article . 
Meantime the retainer goes round , like a gloomy Analytical Chemist always seeming to say , after 'Chablis , sir ? 'You wouldn't if you knew what it's made of . 
The great looking glass above the sideboard , reflects the table and the company . 
Reflects the new Veneering crest , in gold and eke in silver , frosted and also thawed , a camel of all work . 
, and a caravan of camels take charge of the fruits and flowers and candles , and kneel down be loaded with the salt . 
Reflects Veneering forty , wavy haired , dark , tending to corpulence , sly , mysterious , filmy a kind of sufficiently well looking veiled prophet , not prophesying . 
to come to these people's and talk , and who won't talk . 
Lastly , the looking glass reflects Boots and Brewer , and two other stuffed Buffers interposed between the rest of the company and possible accidents . 
The Veneering dinners are excellent dinners or new people wouldn't come and all goes well . 
'I assure you , my dear Veneering , that it is the oddest affair ! Like the advertising people , I don't ask you to trust me , without offering a respectable reference . 
Mortimer there , is my reference , and knows all about it . 
Mortimer raises his drooping eyelids , and slightly opens his mouth . 
But a faint smile , expressive of 'What's the use ! passes over his face , and he drops his eyelids and shuts his mouth . 
'Give you my honour I never heard of any man from Jamaica , except the man who was a brother , replies Mortimer . 
A reviving impression goes round the table that Eugene is coming out . 
An unfulfilled impression , for he goes in again . 
Mrs Veneering is charmed by the humour , and so is Veneering . 
Perhaps it is enhanced by a certain yellow play in Lady Tippins's throat , like the legs of scratching poultry . 
'I banish the false wretch from this moment , and I strike him out of my Cupidon this very night . 
Oh , you perjured man ! This to Mortimer , with a rattle of her fan . 
'We are all very much interested in the man from Somewhere , Veneering observes . 
Eugene suggests 'Day and Martin's . 
'No , not that place , returns the unmoved Mortimer , 'that's where they make the Port . 
My man comes from the country where they make the Cape Wine . 
But look here , old fellow its not at all statistical and it's rather odd . 
'The man , Mortimer goes on , addressing Eugene , 'whose name is Harmon , was only son of a tremendous old rascal who made his money by Dust . 
'Red velveteens and a bell ? the gloomy Eugene inquires . 
'And a ladder and basket if you like . 
By which means , or by others , he grew rich as a Dust Contractor , and lived in a hollow in a hilly country entirely composed of Dust . 
On his own small estate the growling old vagabond threw up his own mountain range , like an old volcano , and its geological formation was Dust . 
Coal dust , vegetable dust , bone dust , crockery dust , rough dust and sifted dust , all manner of Dust . 
'The moral being I believe that's the right expression of this exemplary person , derived its highest gratification from anathematizing his nearest relations and turning them out of doors . 
by rendering these attentions to the wife of his bosom , he next found himself at leisure to bestow a similar recognition on the claims of his daughter . 
Immediately , the venerable parent on a cold winter's night , it is said anathematized and turned her out . 
'The pecuniary resources of Another were , as they usually are , of a very limited nature . 
I believe I am not using too strong an expression when I say that Another was hard up . 
However , he married the young lady , and they lived in a humble dwelling , probably possessing a porch ornamented with honeysuckle and woodbine twining , until she died . 
It is hidden with great pains , but it is in him . 
'We must now return , as novelists say , and as we all wish they wouldn't , to the man from Somewhere . 
Instantly , he absconded , and came over here . 
Venerable parent promptly resorts to anathematization , and turns him out . 
At this juncture , shuffling is heard in the hall , and tapping is heard at the dining room door . 
Analytical Chemist goes to the door , confers angrily with unseen tapper , appears to become mollified by descrying reason in the tapping , and goes out . 
'So he was discovered , only the other day , after having been expatriated about fourteen years . 
A Buffer , suddenly astounding the other three , by detaching himself , and asserting individuality , inquires 'How discovered , and why ? 'Ah ! To be sure . 
Thank you for reminding me . 
Same Buffer , emboldened by success , says 'When ? 'The other day . 
Ten or twelve months ago . 
'Venerable parent , Mortimer repeats with a passing remembrance that there is a Veneering at table , and for the first time addressing him 'dies . 
'His will is found , said Mortimer , catching Mrs Podsnap's rocking horse's eye . 
'It is dated very soon after the son's flight . 
The Analytical Chemist returning , everybody looks at him . 
Mrs Podsnap inquires whether the young person is a young person of personal charms ? Mortimer is unable to report . 
Curiosity detains Mrs Veneering a few moments . 
Analytical Chemist again bends and whispers . 
Mortimer stares at him , and unfolds the paper . 
Reads it , reads it twice , turns it over to look at the blank outside , reads it a third time . 
'This arrives in an extraordinarily opportune manner , says Mortimer then , looking with an altered face round the table 'this is the conclusion of the story of the identical man . 
'Already married ? one guesses . 
'Declines to marry ? another guesses . 
'Codicil among the dust ? another guesses . 
'Why , no , says Mortimer 'remarkable thing , you are all wrong . 
The story is completer and rather more exciting than I supposed . 
He was a boy of about fifteen . 
'Whose writing is this ? 'Mine , sir . 
'Who told you to write it ? 'My father , Jesse Hexam . 
'Is it he who found the body ? 'Yes , sir . 
'Is it far ? 'Is which far ? asked the boy , upon his guard , and again upon the road to Canterbury . 
'To your father's ? 'It's a goodish stretch , sir . 
I come up in a cab , and the cab's waiting to be paid . 
We could go back in it before you paid it , if you liked . 
There was a curious mixture in the boy , of uncompleted savagery , and uncompleted civilization . 
No one who can read , ever looks at a book , even unopened on a shelf , like one who cannot . 
'Were any means taken , do you know , boy , to ascertain if it was possible to restore life ? Mortimer inquired , as he sought for his hat . 
'You wouldn't ask , sir , if you knew his state . 
Pharaoh's multitude that were drowned in the Red Sea , ain't more beyond restoring to life . 
If Lazarus was only half as far gone , that was the greatest of all the miracles . 
'And Lazarus ? 'Yes , and him too . 
But don't you tell my father ! We should have no peace in our place , if that got touched upon . 
'You seem to have a good sister . 
'She ain't half bad , said the boy 'but if she knows her letters it's the most she does and them I learned her . 
'Well , I'm sure , sir ! said the boy , resisting 'I hope you'll know me again . 
inside , smoking cigars the messenger on the box beside the driver . 
'And I , said Eugene , 'have been called seven years , and have had no business at all , and never shall have any . 
And if I had , I shouldn't know how to do it . 
'I am far from being clear as to the last particular , returned Mortimer , with great composure , 'that I have much advantage over you . 
'I hate , said Eugene , putting his legs up on the opposite seat , 'I hate my profession . 
'Shall I incommode you , if I put mine up too ? returned Mortimer . 
'It was forced upon me , said the gloomy Eugene , 'because it was understood that we wanted a barrister in the family . 
We have got a precious one . 
'It was forced upon me , said Mortimer , 'because it was understood that we wanted a solicitor in the family . 
And we have got a precious one . 
Will you give me a light ? Thank you . 
'Then idiots talk , said Eugene , leaning back , folding his arms , smoking with his eyes shut , and speaking slightly through his nose , 'of Energy . 
If there is a word in the dictionary under any letter from A to Z that I abominate , it is energy . 
'Precisely my view of the case , Eugene . 
But show me a good opportunity , show me something really worth being energetic about , and I'll show you energy . 
'And so will I , said Eugene . 
'You must walk the rest , sir it's not many yards . 
He spoke in the singular number , to the express exclusion of Eugene . 
'This is a confoundedly out of the way place , said Mortimer , slipping over the stones and refuse on the shore , as the boy turned the corner sharp . 
'Here's my father's , sir where the light is . 
The low building had the look of having once been a mill . 
There was a rotten wart of wood upon its forehead that seemed to indicate where the sails had been , but the whole was very indistinctly seen in the obscurity of the night . 
There was a wooden bunk or berth in a corner , and in another corner a wooden stair leading above so clumsy and steep that it was little better than a ladder . 
The roof of the room was not plastered , but was formed of the flooring of the room above . 
, and damp , alike had a look of decomposition . 
The figure at the red fire turned , raised its ruffled head , and looked like a bird of prey . 
'You're Mortimer Lightwood Esquire are you , sir ? 'Mortimer Lightwood is my name . 
What you found , said Mortimer , glancing rather shrinkingly towards the bunk 'is it here ? ''Tain't not to say here , but it's close by . 
I've giv' notice of the circumstarnce to the police , and the police have took possession of it . 
No time ain't been lost , on any hand . 
The police have put into print already , and here's what the print says of it . 
Taking up the bottle with the lamp in it , he held it near a paper on the wall , with the police heading , BODY FOUND . 
The two friends read the handbill as it stuck against the wall , and Gaffer read them as he held the light . 
'Only papers on the unfortunate man , I see , said Lightwood , glancing from the description of what was found , to the finder . 
Here the girl arose with her work in her hand , and went out at the door . 
'No money , pursued Mortimer 'but threepence in one of the skirt pockets . 
Pieces , said Gaffer Hexam , in as many sentences . 
'The trousers pockets empty , and turned inside out . 
Whether it's the wash of the tide or no , I can't say . 
Now , here , moving the light to another similar placard , 'HIS pockets was found empty , and turned inside out . 
And here , moving the light to another , 'HER pocket was found empty , and turned inside out . 
And so was this one's . 
And so was that one's . 
I can't read , nor I don't want to it , for I know 'em by their places on the wall . 
This one was a sailor , with two anchors and a flag and G. F. T. on his arm . 
Look and see if he warn't . 
'This one was the young woman in grey boots , and her linen marked with a cross . 
Look and see if she warn't . 
'This is him as had a nasty cut over the eye . 
This is them two young sisters what tied themselves together with a handkecher . 
They pretty well papers the room , you see but I know 'em all . 
He had the special peculiarity of some birds of prey , that when he knitted his brow , his ruffled crest stood highest . 
'You did not find all these yourself did you ? asked Eugene . 
To which the bird of prey slowly rejoined , 'And what might YOUR name be , now ? 'This is my friend , Mortimer Lightwood interposed 'Mr Eugene Wrayburn . 
'Do you suppose there has been much violence and robbery , beforehand , among these cases ? 'I don't suppose at all about it , returned Gaffer . 
'I ain't one of the supposing sort . 
If you'd got your living to haul out of the river every day of your life , you mightn't be much given to supposing . 
'A body missing ? asked Gaffer Hexam , stopping short 'or a body found ? Which ? 'I am lost ! replied the man , in a hurried and an eager manner . 
'Lost ? 'I I am a stranger , and don't know the way . 
I I want to find the place where I can see what is described here . 
It is possible I may know it . 
He was panting , and could hardly speak but , he showed a copy of the newly printed bill that was still wet upon the wall . 
Perhaps its newness , or perhaps the accuracy of his observation of its general look , guided Gaffer to a ready conclusion . 
'This gentleman , Mr Lightwood , is on that business . 
'Mr Lightwood ? During a pause , Mortimer and the stranger confronted each other . 
'You said you were a stranger in London ? 'An utter stranger . 
'Are you seeking a Mr Harmon ? 'No . 
'Then I believe I can assure you that you are on a fruitless errand , and will not find what you fear to find . 
'A bull's eye , said the Night Inspector , taking up his keys . 
Which a deferential satellite produced . 
With one of his keys , he opened a cool grot at the end of the yard , and they all went in . 
They quickly came out again , no one speaking but Eugene who remarked to Mortimer , in a whisper , 'Not MUCH worse than Lady Tippins . 
No clue to how body came into river . 
Very often was no clue . 
Too late to know for certain , whether injuries received before or after death one excellent surgical opinion said , before other excellent surgical opinion said , after . 
Steward of ship in which gentleman came home passenger , had been round to view , and could swear to identity . 
Likewise could swear to clothes . 
And then , you see , you had the papers , too . 
How was it he had totally disappeared on leaving ship , 'till found in river ? Well ! Probably had been upon some little game . 
Probably thought it a harmless game , wasn't up to things , and it turned out a fatal game . 
Inquest to morrow , and no doubt open verdict . 
'It appears to have knocked your friend over knocked him completely off his legs , Mr Inspector remarked , when he had finished his summing up . 
Mr Lightwood explained that it was no friend of his . 
'Indeed ? said Mr Inspector , with an attentive ear 'where did you pick him up ? Mr Lightwood explained further . 
It's a horrible sight ! 'You expected to identify , I am told , sir ? 'Yes . 
'HAVE you identified ? 'No . 
O ! a horrible , horrible sight ! 'Who did you think it might have been ? asked Mr Inspector . 
'Give us a description , sir . 
Perhaps we can help you . 
'No , no , said the stranger 'it would be quite useless . 
'You missed a friend , you know or you missed a foe , you know or you wouldn't have come here , you know . 
Well , then ain't it reasonable to ask , who was it ? Thus , Mr Inspector . 
'You must excuse my telling you . 
No class of man can understand better than you , that families may not choose to publish their disagreements and misfortunes , except on the last necessity . 
I do not dispute that you discharge your duty in asking me the question you will not dispute my right to withhold the answer . 
Again he turned towards the wicket , where the satellite , with his eye upon his chief , remained a dumb statue . 
'At least , said Mr Inspector , 'you will not object to leave me your card , sir ? 'I should not object , if I had one but I have not . 
He reddened and was much confused as he gave the answer . 
'At least , said Mr Inspector , with no change of voice or manner , 'you will not object to write down your name and address ? 'Not at all . 
Mr Inspector dipped a pen in his inkstand , and deftly laid it on a piece of paper close beside him then resumed his former attitude . 
'Staying there , I presume , sir ? 'Staying there . 
'Consequently , from the country ? 'Eh ? Yes from the country . 
The satellite removed his arm and opened the wicket , and Mr Julius Handford went out . 
'Reserve ! said Mr Inspector . 
'Take care of this piece of paper , keep him in view without giving offence , ascertain that he IS staying there , and find out anything you can about him . 
The satellite was gone and Mr Inspector , becoming once again the quiet Abbot of that Monastery , dipped his pen in his ink and resumed his books . 
If a murder , anybody might have done it . 
Burglary or pocket picking wanted 'prenticeship . 
We were all of us up to that . 
Had seen scores of people come to identify , and never saw one person struck in that particular way . 
Might , however , have been Stomach and not Mind . 
If so , rum stomach . 
But to be sure there were rum everythings . 
Pity there was not a word of truth in that superstition about bodies bleeding when touched by the hand of the right person you never got a sign out of bodies . 
, 'but you got nothing out of bodies if it was ever so . 
There being nothing more to be done until the Inquest was held next day , the friends went away together , and Gaffer Hexam and his son went their separate way . 
The boy lifted the latch he had lifted before , and found his sister again seated before the fire at her work . 
Who raised her head upon his coming in and asking 'Where did you go , Liz ? 'I went out in the dark . 
'There was no necessity for that . 
It was all right enough . 
'One of the gentlemen , the one who didn't speak while I was there , looked hard at me . 
And I was afraid he might know what my face meant . 
But there ! Don't mind me , Charley ! I was all in a tremble of another sort when you owned to father you could write a little . 
'Ah ! But I made believe I wrote so badly , as that it was odds if any one could read it . 
And when I wrote slowest and smeared but with my finger most , father was best pleased , as he stood looking over me . 
The girl put aside her work , and drawing her seat close to his seat by the fire , laid her arm gently on his shoulder . 
'You'll make the most of your time , Charley won't you ? 'Won't I ? Come ! I like that . 
Don't I ? 'Yes , Charley , yes . 
You work hard at your learning , I know . 
, how to get together a shilling now , and a shilling then , that shall make father believe you are beginning to earn a stray living along shore . 
'You are father's favourite , and can make him believe anything . 
'Don't talk stuff about dying , Liz . 
Look here ! When I take the poker so and give it a dig 'Don't disturb it , Charley , or it'll be all in a blaze . 
It's that dull glow near it , coming and going , that I mean . 
When I look at it of an evening , it comes like pictures to me , Charley . 
'Show us a picture , said the boy . 
'Tell us where to look . 
'Ah ! It wants my eyes , Charley . 
'Cut away then , and tell us what your eyes make of it . 
The girl laughed delightedly , and here eyes filled with pleasant tears , as he put both his arms round her waist and so held her . 
You are rather heavy to carry , Charley , and I am often obliged to rest . 
You remember , Charley ? 'I remember , said the boy , pressing her to him twice or thrice , 'that I snuggled under a little shawl , and it was warm there . 
At last , up comes father and takes us home . 
The listening boy gave a grunt here , as much as to say 'But he strikes ME though ! 'Those are some of the pictures of what is past , Charley . 
'Cut away again , said the boy , 'and give us a fortune telling one a future one . 
'Well ! There am I , continuing with father and holding to father , because father loves me and I love father . 
I can't so much as read a book , because , if I had learned , father would have thought I was deserting him , and I should have lost my influence . 
'Give us a touch of the fortune telling pictures about me . 
There are you 'Where am I , Liz ? 'Still in the hollow down by the flare . 
'You come to be a pupil teacher , and you still go on better and better , and you rise to be a master full of learning and respect . 
But the secret has come to father's knowledge long before , and it has divided you from father , and from me . 
'No it hasn't ! 'Yes it has , Charley . 
, that way of yours would be darkened by our way . 
But I see too , Charley 'Still as plain as plain can be , Liz ? asked the boy playfully . 
That it is a great work to have cut you away from father's life , and to have made a new and good beginning . 
'You said you couldn't read a book , Lizzie . 
Your library of books is the hollow down by the flare , I think . 
'I should be very glad to be able to read real books . 
I feel my want of learning very much , Charley . 
But I should feel it much more , if I didn't know it to be a tie between me and father . 
Hark ! Father's tread ! It being now past midnight , the bird of prey went straight to roost . 
At mid day following he reappeared at the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters , in the character , not new to him , of a witness before a Coroner's Jury . 
Mr Inspector watched the proceedings too , and kept his watching closely to himself . 
, sent eighteen postage stamps , and five 'Now Sir's to the editor of the Times . 
, to offer a reward for the solution of the mystery . 
This Proclamation rendered Mr Inspector additionally studious , and caused him to stand meditating on river stairs and causeways , and to go lurking about in boats , putting this and that together . 
But , according to the success with which you put this and that together , you get a woman and a fish apart , or a Mermaid in combination . 
And Mr Inspector could turn out nothing better than a Mermaid , which no Judge and Jury would believe in . 
For , it is a remarkable fact in genealogy that no De Any ones ever came over with Anybody else . 
If the conventional Cherub could ever grow up and be clothed , he might be photographed as a portrait of Wilfer . 
His chubby , smooth , innocent appearance was a reason for his being always treated with condescension when he was not put down . 
A stranger entering his own poor house at about ten o'clock P. M. might have been surprised to find him sitting up to supper . 
So boyish was he in his curves and proportions , that his old schoolmaster meeting him in Cheapside , might have been unable to withstand the temptation of caning him on the spot . 
In short , he was the conventional cherub , after the supposititious shoot just mentioned , rather grey , with signs of care on his expression , and in decidedly insolvent circumstances . 
He was shy , and unwilling to own to the name of Reginald , as being too aspiring and self assertive a name . 
In his signature he used only the initial R. , and imparted what it really stood for , to none but chosen friends , under the seal of confidence . 
Thus he was constantly addressed , even in minor notes on business , as 'Dear Rumty' in answer to which , he sedately signed himself , 'Yours truly , R. Wilfer . 
He was clerk in the drug house of Chicksey , Veneering , and Stobbles . 
R. Wilfer locked up his desk one evening , and , putting his bunch of keys in his pocket much as if it were his peg top , made for home . 
His home was in the Holloway region north of London , and then divided from it by fields and trees . 
Mrs Wilfer was , of course , a tall woman and an angular . 
Her lord being cherubic , she was necessarily majestic , according to the principle which matrimonially unites contrasts . 
She was much given to tying up her head in a pocket handkerchief , knotted under the chin . 
, and as a species of full dress . 
for the interests of all parties . 
'Perhaps it was , my dear what do you think ? 'You are master here , R. W. , returned his wife . 
'It is as you think not as I do . 
Perhaps it might have been better if the man had taken the door too ? 'My dear , we couldn't have done without the door . 
'Couldn't we ? 'Why , my dear ! Could we ? 'It is as you think , R. W. not as I do . 
, sat playing draughts with a younger girl , who was the youngest of the House of Wilfer . 
'Tell your father whether it was last Monday , Bella . 
'But we never heard any more of it , ma , said Bella , the elder girl . 
Two young ladies of the highest respectability . 
Tell your father , Bella , whether the milkman said so . 
'My dear , it is the same thing . 
'No it is not , said Mrs Wilfer , with the same impressive monotony . 
'Pardon me ! 'I mean , my dear , it is the same thing as to space . 
'I have nothing more to say , returned Mrs Wilfer , with a meek renunciatory action of her gloves . 
'It is as you think , R. W. not as I do . 
'Poor Bella ! said Mrs Wilfer . 
'No , R. W. Lavinia has not known the trial that Bella has known . 
The trial that your daughter Bella has undergone , is , perhaps , without a parallel , and has been borne , I will say , Nobly . 
'I am sure you do not , my dear , returned her mother , 'for you have a fine brave spirit . 
But I will be true to him , mamma , she touchingly writes , I will not leave him , I must not forget that he is my husband . 
'I am sure , said she , 'though you have no feeling for me , pa , I am one of the most unfortunate girls that ever lived . 
And yet you don't feel for me . 
Yes you do , yes you do . 
This abrupt change was occasioned by her father's face . 
She stopped to pull him down from his chair in an attitude highly favourable to strangulation , and to give him a kiss and a pat or two on the cheek . 
'But you ought to feel for me , you know , pa . 
'My dear , I do . 
'Yes , and I say you ought to . 
If they had only left me alone and told me nothing about it , it would have mattered much less . 
Here , Lavinia , rising to the surface with the last draughtman rescued , interposed , 'You never cared for George Sampson , Bella . 
'You were rude enough to him , Lavinia again interposed . 
'And did I say I wasn't , miss ? I am not setting up to be sentimental about George Sampson . 
I only say George Sampson was better than nothing . 
'You didn't show him that you thought even that , Lavinia again interposed . 
'You are a chit and a little idiot , returned Bella , 'or you wouldn't make such a dolly speech . 
What did you expect me to do ? Wait till you are a woman , and don't talk about what you don't understand . 
It was ridiculous enough to have a stranger coming over to marry me , whether he liked it or not . 
It was ridiculous enough to know what an embarrassing meeting it would be , and how we never could pretend to have an inclination of our own , either of us . 
I hate to be poor , and we are degradingly poor , offensively poor , miserably poor , beastly poor . 
It's likely enough they took such liberties I shouldn't wonder ! I declare it's a very hard case indeed , and I am a most unfortunate girl . 
The knuckle had knocked two or three times already , but had not been heard . 
'Who is it ? said Mrs Wilfer , in her Act of Parliament manner . 
'The servant girl had her key in the door as I came up , and directed me to this room , telling me I was expected . 
I am afraid I should have asked her to announce me . 
'Pardon me , returned Mrs Wilfer . 
R. W. , this is the gentleman who has taken your first floor . 
He was so good as to make an appointment for to night , when you would be at home . 
An expressive , one might say handsome , face . 
In the last degree constrained , reserved , diffident , troubled . 
His eyes were on Miss Bella for an instant , and then looked at the ground as he addressed the master of the house . 
Two or three times during this short address , the cherub addressed had made chubby motions towards a chair . 
'The gentleman , R. W. , said Mrs Wilfer , 'proposes to take your apartments by the quarter . 
A quarter's notice on either side . 
I require no reference from you , and perhaps , therefore , you will require none from me . 
That will be fair on both sides . 
Indeed , I show the greater confidence of the two , for I will pay in advance whatever you please , and I am going to trust my furniture here . 
came to the rescue with a deep toned 'Per fectly . 
Why then I might lose it . 
'Well ! observed R. Wilfer , cheerfully , 'money and goods are certainly the best of references . 
'Do you think they ARE the best , pa ? asked Miss Bella , in a low voice , and without looking over her shoulder as she warmed her foot on the fender . 
'Among the best , my dear . 
'I should have thought , myself , it was so easy to add the usual kind of one , said Bella , with a toss of her curls . 
The gentleman listened to her , with a face of marked attention , though he neither looked up nor changed his attitude . 
He sat , still and silent , until his future landlord accepted his proposals , and brought writing materials to complete the business . 
He sat , still and silent , while the landlord wrote . 
, it was signed by the contracting parties , Bella looking on as scornful witness . 
The contracting parties were R. Wilfer , and John Rokesmith Esquire . 
'Much obliged to you , Miss Wilfer . 
'Obliged ? 'I have given you so much trouble . 
'Signing my name ? Yes , certainly . 
But I am your landlord's daughter , sir . 
When R. Wilfer returned , candlestick in hand , to the bosom of his family , he found the bosom agitated . 
'Pa , said Bella , 'we have got a Murderer for a tenant . 
'Pa , said Lavinia , 'we have got a Robber . 
'To see him unable for his life to look anybody in the face ! said Bella . 
'There never was such an exhibition . 
'My dears , said their father , 'he is a diffident gentleman , and I should say particularly so in the society of girls of your age . 
'Nonsense , our age ! cried Bella , impatiently . 
'What's that got to do with him ? 'Besides , we are not of the same age which age ? demanded Lavinia . 
'Never YOU mind , Lavvy , retorted Bella 'you wait till you are of an age to ask such questions . 
Indeed , the modest Dutchman himself seemed conscious of his want of variety , and generally came before the family in a state of apologetic perspiration . 
After some discussion on the relative merits of veal cutlet , sweetbread , and lobster , a decision was pronounced in favour of veal cutlet . 
Mrs Wilfer then solemnly divested herself of her handkerchief and gloves , as a preliminary sacrifice to preparing the frying pan , and R. W. himself went out to purchase the viand . 
He soon returned , bearing the same in a fresh cabbage leaf , where it coyly embraced a rasher of ham . 
The cloth was laid by Lavvy . 
'I hate our landlord ! said Bella . 
But , observing a fall in her father's face , she went and sat down by him at the table , and began touching up his hair with the handle of a fork . 
It was one of the girl's spoilt ways to be always arranging the family's hair perhaps because her own was so pretty , and occupied so much of her attention . 
'You deserve to have a house of your own don't you , poor pa ? 'I don't deserve it better than another , my dear . 
, what do you suppose he did it for ? 'Impossible to say , my dear . 
As I have told you time out of number since his will was brought to light , I doubt if I ever exchanged a hundred words with the old gentleman . 
If it was his whim to surprise us , his whim succeeded . 
For he certainly did it . 
'And I was stamping my foot and screaming , when he first took notice of me was I ? said Bella , contemplating the ankle before mentioned . 
'You needn't stand between me and the candle for all that , retorted Bella . 
Caught George Sampson with it ! Don't talk about catching people , miss , till your own time for catching as you call it comes . 
'Perhaps it has come , muttered Lavvy , with a toss of her head . 
'What did you say ? asked Bella , very sharply . 
All weathers saw the man at the post . 
This is to be accepted in a double sense , for he contrived a back to his wooden stool , by placing it against the lamp post . 
He had established his right to the corner , by imperceptible prescription . 
He had never varied his ground an inch , but had in the beginning diffidently taken the corner upon which the side of the house gave . 
A howling corner in the winter time , a dusty corner in the summer time , an undesirable corner at the best of times . 
, but also that he was one of the house's retainers and owed vassalage to it and was bound to leal and loyal interest in it . 
On similar grounds he never beheld an inmate at any one of its windows but he touched his hat . 
Over the house itself , he exercised the same imaginary power as over its inhabitants and their affairs . 
Assuredly , this stall of Silas Wegg's was the hardest little stall of all the sterile little stalls in London . 
It gave you the face ache to look at his apples , the stomach ache to look at his oranges , the tooth ache to look at his nuts . 
Whether from too much east wind or no it was an easterly corner the stall , the stock , and the keeper , were all as dry as the Desert . 
Wegg was a knotty man , and a close grained , with a face carved out of very hard material , that had just as much play of expression as a watchman's rattle . 
When he laughed , certain jerks occurred in it , and the rattle sprung . 
Mr Wegg was an observant person , or , as he himself said , 'took a powerful sight of notice' . 
, he put his open hand to the side of his hat , in a military manner which that angry eyed buttoned up inflammatory faced old gentleman appeared but imperfectly to appreciate . 
The only article in which Silas dealt , that was not hard , was gingerbread . 
He wore thick shoes , and thick leather gaiters , and thick gloves like a hedger's . 
A very odd looking old fellow altogether . 
'Here you are again , repeated Mr Wegg , musing . 
Which Mr Wegg , having replaced his tin box , accordingly did , as he rose to bait his gingerbread trap for some other devoted infant . 
'Morning , morning , morning ! 'Appears to be rather a 'arty old cock , too , said Mr Wegg , as before 'Good morning to YOU , sir . 
'I have noticed you go past our house , sir , several times in the course of the last week or so . 
'Our house , repeated the other . 
'Meaning ? 'Yes , said Mr Wegg , nodding , as the other pointed the clumsy forefinger of his right glove at the corner house . 
'Oh ! It's not yet brought to an exact allowance ? No ! It's not yet brought to an exact allowance . 
Oh ! Morning , morning , morning ! 'Appears to be rather a cracked old cock , thought Silas , qualifying his former good opinion , as the other ambled off . 
But , in a moment he was back again with the question 'How did you get your wooden leg ? Mr Wegg replied , , 'In an accident . 
'Do you like it ? 'Well ! I haven't got to keep it warm , Mr Wegg made answer , in a sort of desperation occasioned by the singularity of the question . 
'I never did hear of the name of Boffin . 
'Do you like it ? 'Why , no , retorted Mr Wegg , again approaching desperation 'I can't say I do . 
'Why don't you like it ? 'I don't know why I don't , retorted Mr Wegg , approaching frenzy , 'but I don't at all . 
'Now , I'll tell you something that'll make you sorry for that , said the stranger , smiling . 
'I can't help it ! returned Mr Wegg . 
Implying in his manner the offensive addition , 'and if I could , I wouldn't . 
'But there's another chance for you , said Mr Boffin , smiling still , 'Do you like the name of Nicodemus ? Think it over . 
I don't know why , Mr Wegg added , anticipating another question . 
'Noddy Boffin , said that gentleman . 
What's your name ? 'Silas Wegg . 
I don't , said Mr Wegg , bestirring himself to take the same precaution as before , 'I don't know why Silas , and I don't know why Wegg . 
'Now , Wegg , said Mr Boffin , hugging his stick closer , 'I want to make a sort of offer to you . 
Do you remember when you first see me ? The wooden Wegg looked at him with a meditative eye , and also with a softened air as descrying possibility of profit . 
I ain't quite sure , and yet I generally take a powerful sight of notice , too . 
To be sure we did . 
'Was you , indeed ? said Mr Wegg , dubiously . 
'Not in a dishonourable way , Wegg , because you was singing to the butcher and you wouldn't sing secrets to a butcher in the street , you know . 
'It never happened that I did so yet , to the best of my remembrance , said Mr Wegg , cautiously . 
'But I might do it . 
A man can't say what he might wish to do some day or another . 
'Well , repeated Boffin , 'I was a listening to you and to him . 
And what do you you haven't got another stool , have you ? I'm rather thick in my breath . 
'I haven't got another , but you're welcome to this , said Wegg , resigning it . 
'It's a treat to me to stand . 
I'm coming to it ! I was going to say that when I listened that morning , I listened with hadmiration amounting to haw . 
I thought to myself , Here's a man with a wooden leg a literary man with 'N not exactly so , sir , said Mr Wegg . 
'I see you at it ! 'Well , sir , returned Mr Wegg , with a conscious inclination of the head 'we'll say literary , then . 
'On the spot ? said Mr Boffin . 
'I know'd it ! Then consider this . 
Here am I , a man without a wooden leg , and yet all print is shut to me . 
'Indeed , sir ? Mr Wegg returned with increasing self complacency . 
'Education neglected ? 'Neg lected ! repeated Boffin , with emphasis . 
'That ain't no word for it . 
I don't mean to say but what if you showed me a B , I could so far give you change for it , as to answer Boffin . 
'Come , come , sir , said Mr Wegg , throwing in a little encouragement , 'that's something , too . 
'It's something , answered Mr Boffin , 'but I'll take my oath it ain't much . 
'Perhaps it's not as much as could be wished by an inquiring mind , sir , Mr Wegg admitted . 
I'm getting to be a old bird , and I want to take it easy . 
'as'll reach right down your pint of view , and take time to go by you . 
'Hem ! Flattered , sir , I am sure , said Wegg , beginning to regard himself in quite a new light . 
'Hew ! This is the offer you mentioned , sir ? 'Yes . 
Do you like it ? 'I am considering of it , Mr Boffin . 
'I don't , said Boffin , in a free handed manner , 'want to tie a literary man WITH a wooden leg down too tight . 
A halfpenny an hour shan't part us . 
The hours are your own to choose , after you've done for the day with your house here . 
I live over Maiden Lane way out Holloway direction and you've only got to go East and by North when you've finished here , and you're there . 
'Half a crown , said Wegg , meditating . 
'Per week , you know . 
As to the amount of strain upon the intellect now . 
Was you thinking at all of poetry ? Mr Wegg inquired , musing . 
'Would it come dearer ? Mr Boffin asked . 
'It would come dearer , Mr Wegg returned . 
'For when a person comes to grind off poetry night after night , it is but right he should expect to be paid for its weakening effect on his mind . 
'I follow you , sir , said Wegg . 
'What do you think of the terms , Wegg ? Mr Boffin then demanded , with unconcealed anxiety . 
'So I should have thought of you ! said Mr Boffin , admiringly . 
I never did 'aggle and I never will 'aggle . 
'Could you begin to night , Wegg ? he then demanded . 
'Yes , sir , said Mr Wegg , careful to leave all the eagerness to him . 
'I see no difficulty if you wish it . 
You are provided with the needful implement a book , sir ? 'Bought him at a sale , said Mr Boffin . 
Purple ribbon in every wollume , to keep the place where you leave off . 
Do you know him ? 'The book's name , sir ? inquired Silas . 
'I thought you might have know'd him without it , said Mr Boffin slightly disappointed . 
'His name is Decline And Fall Off The Rooshan Empire . 
'Ay indeed ! said Mr Wegg , nodding his head with an air of friendly recognition . 
'You know him , Wegg ? 'I haven't been not to say right slap through him , very lately , Mr Wegg made answer , 'having been otherways employed , Mr Boffin . 
But know him ? Old familiar declining and falling off the Rooshan ? Rather , sir ! Ever since I was not so high as your stick . 
Ever since my eldest brother left our cottage to enlist into the army . 
She breathed a prayer for him , Mr Boffin A prayer he coold not hear . 
And my eldest brother lean'd upon his sword , Mr Boffin , And wiped away a tear . 
'Where I live , said Mr Boffin , 'is called The Bower . 
Boffin's Bower is the name Mrs Boffin christened it when we come into it as a property . 
I shall expect you , Wegg , said Mr Boffin , clapping him on the shoulder with the greatest enthusiasm , 'most joyfully . 
I shall have no peace or patience till you come . 
Print is now opening ahead of me . 
Also , while he still grasped that feature , he directed several thoughtful looks down the street , after the retiring figure of Mr Boffin . 
But , profound gravity sat enthroned on Wegg's countenance . 
Mr Wegg would even have picked a handsome quarrel with any one who should have challenged his deep acquaintance with those aforesaid eight volumes of Decline and Fall . 
His gravity was unusual , portentous , and immeasurable , not because he admitted any doubt of himself but because he perceived it necessary to forestall any doubt of himself in others . 
And herein he ranged with that very numerous class of impostors , who are quite as determined to keep up appearances to themselves , as to their neighbours . 
A certain loftiness , likewise , took possession of Mr Wegg a condescending sense of being in request as an official expounder of mysteries . 
But , when night came , and with her veiled eyes beheld him stumping towards Boffin's Bower , he was elated too . 
The Bower was as difficult to find , as Fair Rosamond's without the clue . 
Mr Wegg , having reached the quarter indicated , inquired for the Bower half a dozen times without the least success , until he remembered to ask for Harmony Jail . 
This occasioned a quick change in the spirits of a hoarse gentleman and a donkey , whom he had much perplexed . 
'Why , yer mean Old Harmon's , do yer ? said the hoarse gentleman , who was driving his donkey in a truck , with a carrot for a whip . 
'Why didn't yer niver say so ? Eddard and me is a goin' by HIM ! Jump in . 
Mr Wegg complied , and the hoarse gentleman invited his attention to the third person in company , thus 'Now , you look at Eddard's ears . 
What was it as you named , agin ? Whisper . 
Mr Wegg whispered , 'Boffin's Bower . 
cut away to Boffin's Bower ! Edward , with his ears lying back , remained immoveable . 
'Eddard ! cut away to Old Harmon's . 
Edward instantly pricked up his ears to their utmost , and rattled off at such a pace that Mr Wegg's conversation was jolted out of him in a most dislocated state . 
'Was it Ev verajail ? asked Mr Wegg , holding on . 
'Not a proper jail , wot you and me would get committed to , returned his escort 'they giv' it the name , on accounts of Old Harmon living solitary there . 
'And why did they callitharm Ony ? asked Wegg . 
'On accounts of his never agreeing with nobody . 
Like a speeches of chaff . 
'Doyouknow Mist Erboff in ? asked Wegg . 
'I should think so ! Everybody do about here . 
Presently , Edward stopped at a gateway , and Wegg discreetly lost no time in slipping out at the back of the truck . 
in a low evening dress of sable satin , and a large black velvet hat and feathers . 
'Mrs Boffin , Wegg , said Boffin , 'is a highflyer at Fashion . 
And her make is such , that she does it credit . 
As to myself I ain't yet as Fash'nable as I may come to be . 
Henerietty , old lady , this is the gentleman that's a going to decline and fall off the Rooshan Empire . 
'And I am sure I hope it'll do you both good , said Mrs Boffin . 
It was the queerest of rooms , fitted and furnished more like a luxurious amateur tap room than anything else within the ken of Silas Wegg . 
There were two wooden settles by the fire , one on either side of it , with a corresponding table before each . 
On the hob , a kettle steamed on the hearth , a cat reposed . 
Facing the fire between the settles , a sofa , a footstool , and a little table , formed a centrepiece devoted to Mrs Boffin . 
They were garish in taste and colour , but were expensive articles of drawing room furniture that had a very odd look beside the settles and the flaring gaslight pendent from the ceiling . 
'Do you like it , Wegg ? asked Mr Boffin , in his pouncing manner . 
'I admire it greatly , sir , said Wegg . 
'Peculiar comfort at this fireside , sir . 
These arrangements is made by mutual consent between Mrs Boffin and me . 
Mrs Boffin , as I've mentioned , is a highflyer at Fashion at present I'm not . 
I don't go higher than comfort , and comfort of the sort that I'm equal to the enjoyment of . 
, Fashion , and Comfort . 
If I get by degrees to be a higher flyer at Fashion , then Mrs Boffin will by degrees come for'arder . 
If Mrs Boffin should ever be less of a dab at Fashion than she is at the present time , then Mrs Boffin's carpet would go back'arder . 
If we should both continny as we are , why then HERE we are , and give us a kiss , old lady . 
Mrs Boffin who , perpetually smiling , had approached and drawn her plump arm through her lord's , most willingly complied . 
Fashion , in the form of her black velvet hat and feathers , tried to prevent it but got deservedly crushed in the endeavour . 
'So now , Wegg , said Mr Boffin , wiping his mouth with an air of much refreshment , 'you begin to know us as we are . 
This is a charming spot , is the Bower , but you must get to apprechiate it by degrees . 
It's a spot to find out the merits of little by little , and a new'un every day . 
There's a serpentining walk up each of the mounds , that gives you the yard and neighbourhood changing every moment . 
When you get to the top , there's a view of the neighbouring premises , not to be surpassed . 
, you look down into , as if they was your own . 
Now , what'll you read on ? 'Thank you , sir , returned Wegg , as if there were nothing new in his reading at all . 
'I generally do it on gin and water . 
'Keeps the organ moist , does it , Wegg ? asked Mr Boffin , with innocent eagerness . 
'N no , sir , replied Wegg , coolly , 'I should hardly describe it so , sir . 
I should say , mellers it . 
Mellers it , is the word I should employ , Mr Boffin . 
His wooden conceit and craft kept exact pace with the delighted expectation of his victim . 
On his returning a gracious answer and taking his place at the literary settle , Mr Boffin began to compose himself as a listener , at the opposite settle , with exultant eyes . 
'Sorry to deprive you of a pipe , Wegg , he said , filling his own , 'but you can't do both together . 
Wegg , who had been going to put on his spectacles , immediately laid them down , with the sprightly observation 'You read my thoughts , sir . 
DO my eyes deceive me , or is that object up there a a pie ? It can't be a pie . 
'Yes , it's a pie , Wegg , replied Mr Boffin , with a glance of some little discomfiture at the Decline and Fall . 
'HAVE I lost my smell for fruits , or is it a apple pie , sir ? asked Wegg . 
'It's a veal and ham pie , said Mr Boffin . 
'Have some , Wegg ? 'Thank you , Mr Boffin , I think I will , at your invitation . 
Mr Wegg did not say what organ , but spoke with a cheerful generality . 
, 'that you made a little mistake this morning , which I had meant to set you right in , only something put it out of my head . 
I think you said Rooshan Empire , sir ? 'It is Rooshan ain't it , Wegg ? 'No , sir . 
'What's the difference , Wegg ? 'The difference , sir ? Mr Wegg was faltering and in danger of breaking down , when a bright thought flashed upon him . 
'The difference , sir ? There you place me in a difficulty , Mr Boffin . 
Suffice it to observe , that the difference is best postponed to some other occasion when Mrs Boffin does not honour us with her company . 
In Mrs Boffin's presence , sir , we had better drop it . 
eats six millions' worth , English money , in seven months ! Wegg takes it easy , but upon my soul to a old bird like myself these are scarers . 
And even now that Commodious is strangled , I don't see a way to our bettering ourselves . 
Mr Boffin added as he turned his pensive steps towards the Bower and shook his head , 'I didn't think this morning there was half so many Scarers in Print . 
This description applies to the river frontage of the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters . 
In this state of second childhood , it had an air of being in its own way garrulous about its early life . 
The bar of the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters was a bar to soften the human breast . 
But , Abbey was only short for Abigail , by which name Miss Potterson had been christened at Limehouse Church , some sixty and odd years before . 
So make the most of it . 
'But you know , Miss Potterson , this was suggested very meekly though , 'if I behave myself , you can't help serving me , miss . 
'CAN'T I ! said Abbey , with infinite expression . 
'I never said I did doubt it at all , Miss Abbey . 
'So much the better for you . 
Abbey the supreme threw the customer's halfpence into the till , and , seating herself in her fireside chair , resumed the newspaper she had been reading . 
She was a tall , upright , well favoured woman , though severe of countenance , and had more of the air of a schoolmistress than mistress of the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters . 
'You're cruel hard upon me , Miss Potterson . 
'Well ? said Miss Potterson , with a manner as short as she herself was long , 'say your half word . 
'Miss Potterson ! Ma'am ! Would you 'sxcuse me taking the liberty of asking , is it my character that you take objections to ? 'Certainly , said Miss Potterson . 
'Is it that you're afraid of 'I am not afraid OF YOU , interposed Miss Potterson , 'if you mean that . 
'But I humbly don't mean that , Miss Abbey . 
The face of the hostess darkened with some shadow of perplexity , as she replied 'Gaffer has never been where you have been . 
'Signifying in Quod , Miss ? Perhaps not . 
But he may have merited it . 
He may be suspected of far worse than ever I was . 
'Who suspects him ? 'Many , perhaps . 
One , beyond all doubts . 
'YOU are not much , said Miss Abbey Potterson , knitting her brows again with disdain . 
'But I was his pardner . 
Mind you , Miss Abbey , I was his pardner . 
As such I know more of the ins and outs of him than any person living does . 
Notice this ! I am the man that was his pardner , and I am the man that suspects him . 
'Then , suggested Miss Abbey , though with a deeper shade of perplexity than before , 'you criminate yourself . 
'No I don't , Miss Abbey . 
For how does it stand ? It stands this way . 
When I was his pardner , I couldn't never give him satisfaction . 
Why couldn't I never give him satisfaction ? Because my luck was bad because I couldn't find many enough of 'em . 
How was his luck ? Always good . 
'That Gaffer has a skill in finding what he finds , who doubts , man ? asked Miss Abbey . 
'A skill in purwiding what he finds , perhaps , said Riderhood , shaking his evil head . 
Miss Abbey knitted her brow at him , as he darkly leered at her . 
'Gracious Lud ! was the involuntary exclamation of Miss Potterson . 
Gaffer was not there , but a pretty strong muster of Miss Abbey's pupils were , who exhibited , when occasion required , the greatest docility . 
And you needn't nudge him , Mr Jack Mullins , for I know your work begins early tomorrow , and I say the same to you . 
All wished Miss Abbey good night and Miss Abbey wished good night to all , except Riderhood . 
The sapient pot boy , looking on officially , then had the conviction borne in upon his soul , that the man was evermore outcast and excommunicate from the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters . 
'You Bob Gliddery , said Miss Abbey to this pot boy , 'run round to Hexam's and tell his daughter Lizzie that I want to speak to her . 
With exemplary swiftness Bob Gliddery departed , and returned . 
'Come in and sit ye down , girl , said Miss Abbey . 
'Can you eat a bit ? 'No thank you , Miss . 
I have had my supper . 
'I have had mine too , I think , said Miss Abbey , pushing away the untasted dish , 'and more than enough of it . 
I am put out , Lizzie . 
'I am very sorry for it , Miss . 
'Then why , in the name of Goodness , quoth Miss Abbey , sharply , 'do you do it ? 'I do it , Miss ! 'There , there . 
I ought to have begun with a word of explanation , but it's my way to make short cuts at things . 
I always was a pepperer . 
You Bob Gliddery there , put the chain upon the door and get ye down to your supper . 
With an alacrity that seemed no less referable to the pepperer fact than to the supper fact , Bob obeyed , and his boots were heard descending towards the bed of the river . 
'Very often ? Yes ! And I might as well have spoken to the iron funnel of the strongest sea going steamer that passes the Fellowship Porters . 
'No , Miss , Lizzie pleaded 'because that would not be thankful , and I am . 
Why ain't you ugly ? Lizzie merely answered this difficult question with an apologetic glance . 
'However , you ain't , resumed Miss Potterson , 'so it's no use going into that . 
I must take you as I find you . 
Which indeed is what I've done . 
And you mean to say you are still obstinate ? 'Not obstinate , Miss , I hope . 
then ? 'Yes , Miss . 
Lizzie Hexam , Lizzie Hexam , think again . 
Do you know the worst of your father ? 'Do I know the worst of father ! she repeated , opening her eyes . 
Do you know ? urged Miss Abbey . 
'Please to tell me what the suspicions are , Miss , she asked after a silence , with her eyes upon the ground . 
'It's not an easy thing to tell a daughter , but it must be told . 
It is thought by some , then , that your father helps to their death a few of those that he finds dead . 
She raised her eyes quickly , shook her head , and , in a kind of triumph , almost laughed . 
'Yes ! He was father's partner , and father broke with him , and now he revenges himself . 
Father broke with him when I was by , and he was very angry at it . 
'I promise , said Miss Abbey . 
'It was on the night when the Harmon murder was found out , through father , just above bridge . 
And just below bridge , as we were sculling home , Riderhood crept out of the dark in his boat . 
But , Miss Potterson , as a ready schoolmistress accustomed to bring her pupils to book , set the matter in a light that was essentially of this world . 
Their goings on had been going on for some time . 
Even granting that it was as you have had in your thoughts , what the two had done together would come familiar to the mind of one . 
'You don't know father , Miss , when you talk like that . 
Indeed , indeed , you don't know father . 
'Lizzie , Lizzie , said Miss Potterson . 
You needn't break with him altogether , but leave him . 
No matter whether it's owing to your good looks or not , I like you and I want to serve you . 
Lizzie , come under my direction . 
Don't fling yourself away , my girl , but be persuaded into being respectable and happy . 
In the sound good feeling and good sense of her entreaty , Miss Abbey had softened into a soothing tone , and had even drawn her arm round the girl's waist . 
But , she only replied , 'Thank you , thank you ! I can't . 
I must not think of it . 
The harder father is borne upon , the more he needs me to lean on . 
And then Miss Abbey , who , like all hard people when they do soften , felt that there was considerable compensation owing to her , underwent reaction and became frigid . 
'I have done what I can , she said , 'and you must go your way . 
You make your bed , and you must lie on it . 
But tell your father one thing he must not come here any more . 
'Oh , Miss , will you forbid him the house where I know he's safe ? 'The Fellowships , returned Miss Abbey , 'has itself to look to , as well as others . 
It has been hard work to establish order here , and make the Fellowships what it is , and it is daily and nightly hard work to keep it so . 
The Fellowships must not have a taint upon it that may give it a bad name . 
I forbid the house to Riderhood , and I forbid the house to Gaffer . 
I forbid both , equally . 
I find from Riderhood and you together , that there are suspicions against both men , and I'm not going to take upon myself to decide betwixt them . 
They are both tarred with a dirty brush , and I can't have the Fellowships tarred with the same brush . 
'Good night , Miss ! said Lizzie Hexam , sorrowfully . 
'Hah ! Good night ! returned Miss Abbey with a shake of her head . 
'Believe me , Miss Abbey , I am truly grateful all the same . 
'I can believe a good deal , returned the stately Abbey , 'so I'll try to believe that too , Lizzie . 
No supper did Miss Potterson take that night , and only half her usual tumbler of hot Port Negus . 
And the pot boy afterwards remarked , that he hadn't been 'so rattled to bed' , since his late mother had systematically accelerated his retirement to rest with a poker . 
The chaining of the door behind her , as she went forth , disenchanted Lizzie Hexam of that first relief she had felt . 
Of her father's being groundlessly suspected , she felt sure . 
And yet , repeat the word inwardly as often as she would , the attempt to reason out and prove that she was sure , always came after it and failed . 
Riderhood had done the deed , and entrapped her father . 
Riderhood had not done the deed , but had resolved in his malice to turn against her father , the appearances that were ready to his hand to distort . 
Equally and swiftly upon either putting of the case , followed the frightful possibility that her father , being innocent , yet might come to be believed guilty . 
Then at the best , the beginning of his being set apart , whispered against , and avoided , was a certain fact . 
It dated from that very night . 
One thing only , was clear to the girl's mind . 
The room was quiet , and the lamp burnt on the table . 
In the bunk in the corner , her brother lay asleep . 
She bent over him softly , kissed him , and came to the table . 
'By the time of Miss Abbey's closing , and by the run of the tide , it must be one . 
Father at Chiswick , wouldn't think of coming down , till after the turn , and that's at half after four . 
I'll call Charley at six . 
I shall hear the church clocks strike , as I sit here . 
Very quietly , she placed a chair before the scanty fire , and sat down in it , drawing her shawl about her . 
'Charley's hollow down by the flare is not there now . 
Poor Charley ! The clock struck two , and the clock struck three , and the clock struck four , and she remained there , with a woman's patience and her own purpose . 
, trimmed the fire sparingly , put water on to boil , and set the table for breakfast . 
Then she went up the ladder , lamp in hand , and came down again , and glided about and about , making a little bundle . 
She was still so engaged , when she was startled by 'Hal loa ! From her brother , sitting up in bed . 
'You made me jump , Charley . 
'It's not the dead of the night , Charley . 
It's nigh six in the morning . 
'Is it though ? But what are you up to , Liz ? 'Still telling your fortune , Charley . 
'It seems to be a precious small one , if that's it , said the boy . 
'What are you putting that little pile of money by itself for ? 'For you , Charley . 
'What do you mean ? 'Get out of bed , Charley , and get washed and dressed , and then I'll tell you . 
Her composed manner , and her low distinct voice , always had an influence over him . 
His head was soon in a basin of water , and out of it again , and staring at her through a storm of towelling . 
'I never , towelling at himself as if he were his bitterest enemy , 'saw such a girl as you are . 
What IS the move , Liz ? 'Are you almost ready for breakfast , Charley ? 'You can pour it out . 
Hal loa ! I say ? And a bundle ? 'And a bundle , Charley . 
'You don't mean it's for me , too ? 'Yes , Charley I do indeed . 
'You see , Charley dear , I have made up my mind that this is the right time for your going away from us . 
Over and above all the blessed change of by and bye , you'll be much happier , and do much better , even so soon as next month . 
Even so soon as next week . 
'How do you know I shall ? 'I don't quite know how , Charley , but I do . 
'You must leave father to me , Charley I will do what I can with him but you must go . 
'You don't stand upon ceremony , I think , grumbled the boy , throwing his bread and butter about , in an ill humour . 
She made him no answer . 
It was only when the boy rushed at her , and threw his arms round her neck , that she lost her self restraint . 
But she lost it then , and wept over him . 
'Don't cry , don't cry ! I am satisfied to go , Liz I am satisfied to go . 
I know you send me away for my good . 
'O , Charley , Charley , Heaven above us knows I do ! 'Yes yes . 
Don't mind what I said . 
After a silence , she loosed him , to dry her eyes and regain her strong quiet influence . 
'Now listen , Charley dear . 
We both know it must be done , and I alone know there is good reason for its being done at once . 
You are a credit to the school , and you will be a greater credit to it yet , and they will help you to get a living . 
Show what clothes you have brought , and what money , and say that I will send some more money . 
If I can get some in no other way , I will ask a little help of those two gentlemen who came here that night . 
'I say ! cried her brother , quickly . 
'And above all things mind this , Charley ! Be sure you always speak well of father . 
Be sure you always give father his full due . 
And if you should ever happen to hear anything said against father that is new to you , it will not be true . 
Remember , Charley ! It will not be true . 
The boy looked at her with some doubt and surprise , but she went on again without heeding it . 
'Above all things remember ! It will not be true . 
After holding her to his breast with a passionate cry , he took up his bundle and darted out at the door , with an arm across his eyes . 
Lizzie , looking for her father , saw him coming , and stood upon the causeway that he might see her . 
He had nothing with him but his boat , and came on apace . 
A knot of those amphibious human creatures who appear to have some mysterious power of extracting a subsistence out of tidal water by looking at it , were gathered together about the causeway . 
As her father's boat grounded , they became contemplative of the mud , and dispersed themselves . 
She saw that the mute avoidance had begun . 
Gaffer saw it , too , in so far as that he was moved when he set foot on shore , to stare around him . 
But , he promptly set to work to haul up his boat , and make her fast , and take the sculls and rudder and rope out of her . 
Carrying these with Lizzie's aid , he passed up to his dwelling . 
'Sit close to the fire , father , dear , while I cook your breakfast . 
It's all ready for cooking , and only been waiting for you . 
'Well , Lizzie , I ain't of a glow that's certain . 
And my hands seem nailed through to the sculls . 
'You were not out in the perishing night , I hope , father ? 'No , my dear . 
Lay aboard a barge , by a blazing coal fire . 
Where's that boy ? 'There's a drop of brandy for your tea , father , if you'll put it in while I turn this bit of meat . 
Eat it while it's hot and comfortable . 
After you have finished , we'll turn round to the fire and talk . 
What's gone with that boy ? 'Don't be angry , dear . 
It seems , father , that he has quite a gift of learning . 
'Unnat'ral young beggar ! said the parent , shaking his knife in the air . 
'And that having this gift , and not being equally good at other things , he has made shift to get some schooling . 
'Unnat'ral young beggar ! said the parent again , with his former action . 
He went away this morning , father , and he cried very much at going , and he hoped you would forgive him . 
'Let him never come a nigh me to ask me my forgiveness , said the father , again emphasizing his words with the knife . 
'Let him never come within sight of my eyes , nor yet within reach of my arm . 
His own father ain't good enough for him . 
He's disowned his own father . 
His own father therefore , disowns him for ever and ever , as a unnat'ral young beggar . 
He had pushed away his plate . 
As he would have struck with his own clenched fist if there had chanced to be nothing in it . 
He's more welcome to go than to stay . 
But let him never come back . 
Let him never put his head inside that door . 
Now I see why them men yonder held aloof from me . 
They says to one another , Here comes the man as ain't good enough for his own son ! Lizzie ! But , she stopped him with a cry . 
Looking at her he saw her , with a face quite strange to him , shrinking back against the wall , with her hands before her eyes . 
'Father , don't ! I can't bear to see you striking with it . 
Put it down ! He looked at the knife but in his astonishment still held it . 
'Father , it's too horrible . 
O put it down , put it down ! Confounded by her appearance and exclamation , he tossed it away , and stood up with his open hands held out before him . 
'What's come to you , Liz ? Can you think I would strike at you with a knife ? 'No , father , no you would never hurt me . 
'What should I hurt ? 'Nothing , dear father . 
He had never seen her so before . 
But failing , he laid her head gently down again , got a pillow and placed it under her dark hair , and sought on the table for a spoonful of brandy . 
There being none left , he hurriedly caught up the empty bottle , and ran out at the door . 
He returned as hurriedly as he had gone , with the bottle still empty . 
The time is early in the evening the weather moist and raw . 
'Boffin will get all the eagerer for waiting a bit , says Silas , screwing up , as he stumps along , first his right eye , and then his left . 
Which is something superfluous in him , for Nature has already screwed both pretty tight . 
'If I get on with him as I expect to get on , Silas pursues , stumping and meditating , 'it wouldn't become me to leave it here . 
Animated by this reflection , he stumps faster , and looks a long way before him , as a man with an ambitious project in abeyance often will do . 
Aware of a working jeweller population taking sanctuary about the church in Clerkenwell , Mr Wegg is conscious of an interest in , and a respect for , the neighbourhood . 
Stumping with fresh vigour , he goes in at the dark greasy entry , pushes a little greasy dark reluctant side door , and follows the door into the little dark greasy shop . 
Mr Wegg nods to the face , 'Good evening . 
The face looking up is a sallow face with weak eyes , surmounted by a tangle of reddish dusty hair . 
The owner of the face has no cravat on , and has opened his tumbled shirt collar to work with the more ease . 
For the same reason he has no coat on only a loose waistcoat over his yellow linen . 
His eyes are like the over tried eyes of an engraver , but he is not that his expression and stoop are like those of a shoemaker , but he is not that . 
'Good evening , Mr Venus . 
'To be SURE ! he says , then . 
'How do you do ? 'Wegg , you know , that gentleman explains . 
'Yes , yes , says the other . 
'Hospital amputation ? 'Just so , says Mr Wegg . 
'Yes , yes , quoth Venus . 
'How do you do ? Sit down by the fire , and warm your your other one . 
When it is brown , he dives again and produces butter , with which he completes his work . 
'What ? Am I still at home ? asks Wegg , with an air of surprise . 
This would seem to be secretly agreeable to Wegg , but he veils his feelings , and observes , 'Strange . 
I can't work you into a miscellaneous one , no how . 
Do what I will , you can't be got to fit . 
It must often happen with miscellaneous ones . 
I have just sent home a Beauty a perfect Beauty to a school of art . 
One leg Belgian , one leg English , and the pickings of eight other people in it . 
Talk of not being qualified to be miscellaneous ! By rights you OUGHT to be , Mr Wegg . 
Silas looks as hard at his one leg as he can in the dim light , and after a pause sulkily opines 'that it must be the fault of the other people . 
Or how do you mean to say it comes about ? he demands impatiently . 
'I don't know how it comes about . 
Mr Venus takes from a corner by his chair , the bones of a leg and foot , beautifully pure , and put together with exquisite neatness . 
These he compares with Mr Wegg's leg that gentleman looking on , as if he were being measured for a riding boot . 
'No , I don't know how it is , but so it is . 
You have got a twist in that bone , to the best of my belief . 
I never saw the likes of you . 
by his ribs only , standing on a shelf in another corner , like a piece of armour or a pair of stays . 
At this moment the greasy door is violently pushed inward , and a boy follows it , who says , after having let it slam 'Come for the stuffed canary . 
'It's three and ninepence , returns Venus 'have you got the money ? The boy produces four shillings . 
Mr Venus , always in exceedingly low spirits and making whimpering sounds , peers about for the stuffed canary . 
From these Mr Venus rescues the canary in a glass case , and shows it to the boy . 
'There's animation ! On a twig , making up his mind to hop ! Take care of him he's a lovely specimen . 
'How was I to know I'd got it ? You giv it me . 
I don't want none of your teeth I've got enough of my own . 
So the boy pipes , as he selects it from his change , and throws it on the counter . 
'Don't sauce ME , in the wicious pride of your youth , Mr Venus retorts pathetically . 
Don't hit ME because you see I'm down . 
I'm low enough without that . 
It dropped into the till , I suppose . 
There was two in the coffee pot at breakfast time . 
You've no idea how small you'd come out , if I had the articulating of you . 
This consideration seems to have its effect on the boy , for he goes out grumbling . 
Let me show you a light . 
Everything within reach of your hand , in good preservation . 
The mouldy ones a top . 
What's in those hampers over them again , I don't quite remember . 
Oh , dear me ! That's the general panoramic view . 
'Where am I ? asks Mr Wegg . 
'You're somewhere in the back shop across the yard , sir and speaking quite candidly , I wish I'd never bought you of the Hospital Porter . 
'Come ! According to your own account I'm not worth much , Wegg reasons persuasively . 
Repressing an indignant look , indicative of anything but a disposition to excuse him , Silas pursues his point . 
'I think you know me , Mr Venus , and I think you know I never bargain . 
Mr Venus takes gulps of hot tea , shutting his eyes at every gulp , and opening them again in a spasmodic manner but does not commit himself to assent . 
I am a man of my word , and you needn't be afraid of my disposing of you . 
Is business bad ? 'Never was so good . 
'Is your hand out at all ? 'Never was so well in . 
Mr Wegg , I'm not only first in the trade , but I'm THE trade . 
You may go and buy a skeleton at the West End if you like , and pay the West End price , but it'll be my putting together . 
I've as much to do as I can possibly do , with the assistance of my young man , and I take a pride and a pleasure in it . 
Mr Venus thus delivers hmself , his right hand extended , his smoking saucer in his left hand , protesting as though he were going to burst into a flood of tears . 
'That ain't a state of things to make you low , Mr Venus . 
'Mr Wegg , I know it ain't . 
, 'THAT ain't a state of things to be low about . 
Not for YOU to be low about , leastways . 
'Mr Wegg , I know it ain't Mr Wegg , I know it ain't . 
But it's the heart that lowers me , it is the heart ! Be so good as take and read that card out loud . 
Silas receives one from his hand , which Venus takes from a wonderful litter in a drawer , and putting on his spectacles , reads Mr Venus , 'Yes . 
Preserver of Animals and Birds , 'Yes . 
'That's it , with a groan . 
'That's it ! Mr Wegg , I'm thirty two , and a bachelor . 
Mr Wegg , I love her . 
'Does she know the profits of it ? 'She knows the profits of it , but she don't appreciate the art of it , and she objects to it . 
I do not wish , she writes in her own handwriting , to regard myself , nor yet to be regarded , in that boney light . 
Mr Venus pours himself out more tea , with a look and in an attitude of the deepest desolation . 
When I'm equally lowered all over , lethargy sets in . 
By sticking to it till one or two in the morning , I get oblivion . 
Don't let me detain you , Mr Wegg . 
I'm not company for any one . 
'It is not on that account , says Silas , rising , 'but because I've got an appointment . 
It's time I was at Harmon's . 
'Eh ? said Mr Venus . 
'Harmon's , up Battle Bridge way ? Mr Wegg admits that he is bound for that port . 
'You ought to be in a good thing , if you've worked yourself in there . 
There's lots of money going , there . 
'To think , says Silas , 'that you should catch it up so quick , and know about it . 
Wonderful ! 'Not at all , Mr Wegg . 
'Really , now ! 'Yes . 
And he's buried quite in this neighbourhood , you know . 
Mr Wegg does not know , but he makes as if he did , by responsively nodding his head . 
He also follows with his eyes , the toss of Venus's head as if to seek a direction to over yonder . 
'I took an interest in that discovery in the river , says Venus . 
I've got up there never mind , though . 
He had raised the candle at arm's length towards one of the dark shelves , and Mr Wegg had turned to look , when he broke off . 
'The old gentleman was well known all round here . 
There used to be stories about his having hidden all kinds of property in those dust mounds . 
I suppose there was nothing in 'em . 
Probably you know , Mr Wegg ? 'Nothing in 'em , says Wegg , who has never heard a word of this before . 
'Don't let me detain you . 
Next moment , Mr Wegg is stumping under the gaslights and through the mud . 
'Morning , morning , morning ! said Mr Boffin , with a wave of his hand , as the office door was opened by the dismal boy , whose appropriate name was Blight . 
Would you walk in ? Mr Lightwood ain't in at the present moment , but I expect him back very shortly . 
Yes , sir quite right . 
You are a little before your time , sir . 
Mr Lightwood will be in directly . 
'I'm not in a hurry , said Mr Boffin 'Thank you , sir . 
I'll take the opportunity , if you please , of entering your name in our Callers' Book for the day . 
Young Blight made another great show of changing the volume , taking up a pen , sucking it , dipping it , and running over previous entries before he wrote . 
As , 'Mr Alley , Mr Balley , Mr Calley , Mr Dalley , Mr Falley , Mr Galley , Mr Halley , Mr Lalley , Mr Malley . 
'Strict system here eh , my lad ? said Mr Boffin , as he was booked . 
'Yes , sir , returned the boy . 
'I couldn't get on without it . 
By which he probably meant that his mind would have been shattered to pieces without this fiction of an occupation . 
It was the more necessary for his spirits , because , being of a sensitive temperament , he was apt to consider it personally disgraceful to himself that his master had no clients . 
'How long have you been in the law , now ? asked Mr Boffin , with a pounce , in his usual inquisitive way . 
'I've been in the law , now , sir , about three years . 
'Must have been as good as born in it ! said Mr Boffin , with admiration . 
'Do you like it ? 'I don't mind it much , returned Young Blight , heaving a sigh , as if its bitterness were past . 
'What wages do you get ? 'Half what I could wish , replied young Blight . 
'What's the whole that you could wish ? 'Fifteen shillings a week , said the boy . 
'About how long might it take you now , at a average rate of going , to be a Judge ? asked Mr Boffin , after surveying his small stature in silence . 
The boy answered that he had not yet quite worked out that little calculation . 
'I suppose there's nothing to prevent your going in for it ? said Mr Boffin . 
The boy virtually replied that as he had the honour to be a Briton who never never never , there was nothing to prevent his going in for it . 
Yet he seemed inclined to suspect that there might be something to prevent his coming out with it . 
'Would a couple of pound help you up at all ? asked Mr Boffin . 
affairs which , he added , were now , he believed , as good as settled . 
Mr Lightwood explained that he came from the proctor's , with whom he had been engaged in transacting Mr Boffin's affairs . 
'And they seem to have taken a deal out of you ! said Mr Boffin , with commiseration . 
, and so forth , Court of Chancery having been moved , c . 
and so forth , he , Mr Lightwood , had now the gratification , honour , and happiness , again c . 
'And what is particularly eligible in the property Mr Boffin , is , that it involves no trouble . 
, no voters to become parboiled in hot water with , no agents to take the cream off the milk before it comes to table . 
You could put the whole in a cash box to morrow morning , and take it with you to say , to the Rocky Mountains . 
Without following this last remark very closely , Mr Boffin cast his perplexed gaze first at the ceiling , and then at the carpet . 
'Well , he remarked , 'I don't know what to say about it , I am sure . 
I was a'most as well as I was . 
It's a great lot to take care of . 
'My dear Mr Boffin , then DON'T take care of it ! 'Eh ? said that gentleman . 
And if you should be apprehensive of the trouble of doing so , there is the further haven of consolation that any number of people will take the trouble off your hands . 
'Well ! I don't quite see it , retorted Mr Boffin , still perplexed . 
'That's not satisfactory , you know , what you're a saying . 
'Is Anything satisfactory , Mr Boffin ? asked Mortimer , raising his eyebrows . 
'I used to find it so , answered Mr Boffin , with a wistful look . 
'While I was foreman at the Bower afore it WAS the Bower I considered the business very satisfactory . 
but the business was a pleasant one to look after , from before daylight to past dark . 
It's a'most a pity , said Mr Boffin , rubbing his ear , 'that he ever went and made so much money . 
It would have been better for him if he hadn't so given himself up to it . 
You may depend upon it , making the discovery all of a sudden , 'that HE found it a great lot to take care of ! Mr Lightwood coughed , not convinced . 
the cup and sarser to his lips . 
, and send it spinning across the yard . 
Which dropped her , Mr Lightwood . 
Mr Lightwood murmured 'Equal honour Mrs Boffin's head and heart . 
Mr Lightwood murmured 'Vigorous Saxon spirit Mrs Boffin's ancestors bowmen Agincourt and Cressy . 
with a tendency to melt , 'he was a child of seven year old . 
I say he was a child of seven year old . 
There was his little scanty travelling clothes upon him . 
, and I left him when he had fallen asleep in his berth , and I came back to Mrs Boffin . 
But it did one piece of good . 
Mrs Boffin and me had no child of our own , and had sometimes wished that how we had one . 
We might both of us die , says Mrs Boffin , and other eyes might see that lonely look in our child . 
'My dear Mr Boffin , everything wears to rags , said Mortimer , with a light laugh . 
'I won't go so far as to say everything , returned Mr Boffin , on whom his manner seemed to grate , 'because there's some things that I never found among the dust . 
So Mrs Boffin and me grow older and older in the old man's service , living and working pretty hard in it , till the old man is discovered dead in his bed . 
Then you , and the gentleman in the uncomfortable neck cloth under the little archway in Saint Paul's Churchyard 'Doctors' Commons , observed Lightwood . 
'I understood it was another name , said Mr Boffin , pausing , 'but you know best . 
But it was never to be and the want of satisfactoriness is , that after all the money never gets to him . 
'But it gets , remarked Lightwood , with a languid inclination of the head , 'into excellent hands . 
Mr Lightwood , here has been a wicked cruel murder . 
By that murder me and Mrs Boffin mysteriously profit . 
For the apprehension and conviction of the murderer , we offer a reward of one tithe of the property a reward of Ten Thousand Pound . 
'Mr Boffin , it's too much . 
'Mr Lightwood , me and Mrs Boffin have fixed the sum together , and we stand to it . 
'Well , said Mr Boffin , a little staggered , 'that's the sum we put o' one side for the purpose . 
Whether it shall be openly declared in the new notices that must now be put about in our names 'In your name , Mr Boffin in your name . 
'Very well in my name , which is the same as Mrs Boffin's , and means both of us , is to be considered in drawing 'em up . 
But this is the first instruction that I , as the owner of the property , give to my lawyer on coming into it . 
'Your lawyer , Mr Boffin , returned Lightwood , making a very short note of it with a very rusty pen , 'has the gratification of taking the instruction . 
There is another ? 'There is just one other , and no more . 
Make me as compact a little will as can be reconciled with tightness , leaving the whole of the property to my beloved wife , Henerietty Boffin , sole executrix . 
Make it as short as you can , using those words but make it tight . 
At some loss to fathom Mr Boffin's notions of a tight will , Lightwood felt his way . 
'I beg your pardon , but professional profundity must be exact . 
When you say tight 'I mean tight , Mr Boffin explained . 
And nothing can be more laudable . 
But is the tightness to bind Mrs Boffin to any and what conditions ? 'Bind Mrs Boffin ? interposed her husband . 
'No ! What are you thinking of ! What I want is , to make it all hers so tight as that her hold of it can't be loosed . 
'Hers freely , to do what she likes with ? Hers absolutely ? 'Absolutely ? repeated Mr Boffin , with a short sturdy laugh . 
'Delighted , said Eugene though he didn't look so 'to know Mr Boffin . 
'Thankee , sir , thankee , returned that gentleman . 
'And how do YOU like the law ? 'A not particularly , returned Eugene . 
'Too dry for you , eh ? Well , I suppose it wants some years of sticking to , before you master it . 
But there's nothing like work . 
'I object on principle , said Eugene , 'as a biped 'As a what ? asked Mr Boffin . 
'As a two footed creature I object on principle , as a two footed creature , to being constantly referred to insects and four footed creatures . 
I object to being required to model my proceedings according to the proceedings of the bee , or the dog , or the spider , or the camel . 
I fully admit that the camel , for instance , is an excessively temperate person but he has several stomachs to entertain himself with , and I have only one . 
Besides , I am not fitted up with a convenient cool cellar to keep my drink in . 
'But I said , you know , urged Mr Boffin , rather at a loss for an answer , 'the bee . 
And may I represent to you that it's injudicious to say the bee ? For the whole case is assumed . 
'At all events , they work , said Mr Boffin . 
With the highest respect for you . 
'Thankee , said Mr Boffin . 
And he was still jogging along Fleet Street in this condition of mind , when he became aware that he was closely tracked and observed by a man of genteel appearance . 
'Now then ? said Mr Boffin , stopping short , with his meditations brought to an abrupt check , 'what's the next article ? 'I beg your pardon , Mr Boffin . 
'My name too , eh ? How did you come by it ? I don't know you . 
'No , sir , you don't know me . 
Mr Boffin looked full at the man , and the man looked full at him . 
'No , said Mr Boffin , after a glance at the pavement , as if it were made of faces and he were trying to match the man's , 'I DON'T know you . 
'I am nobody , said the stranger , 'and not likely to be known but Mr Boffin's wealth 'Oh ! that's got about already , has it ? muttered Mr Boffin . 
And his romantic manner of acquiring it , make him conspicuous . 
You were pointed out to me the other day . 
What might you want with me ? Not in the law , are you ? 'No , sir . 
'No information to give , for a reward ? 'No , sir . 
There may have been a momentary mantling in the face of the man as he made the last answer , but it passed directly . 
'If I don't mistake , you have followed me from my lawyer's and tried to fix my attention . 
Say out ! Have you ? Or haven't you ? demanded Mr Boffin , rather angry . 
'Why have you ? 'If you will allow me to walk beside you , Mr Boffin , I will tell you . 
'Mr Boffin , I happened to be in Chancery Lane this morning , when I saw you going along before me . 
I took the liberty of following you , trying to make up my mind to speak to you , till you went into your lawyer's . 
Then I waited outside till you came out . 
'I am afraid my object is a bold one , I am afraid it has little of the usual practical world about it , but I venture it . 
'Your information is true of Mrs Boffin , anyhow , was Mr Boffin's answer , as he surveyed his new friend again . 
But his words came easily , and his voice was agreeable in tone , albeit constrained . 
'You will probably change your manner of living , Mr Boffin , in your changed circumstances . 
You will probably keep a larger house , have many matters to arrange , and be beset by numbers of correspondents . 
If you would try me as your Secretary 'As WHAT ? cried Mr Boffin , with his eyes wide open . 
You may naturally think that my immediate object is money . 
Not so , for I would willingly serve you a year two years any term you might appoint before that should begin to be a consideration between us . 
'Where do you come from ? asked Mr Boffin . 
'I come , returned the other , meeting his eye , 'from many countries . 
Boffin's acquaintances with the names and situations of foreign lands being limited in extent and somewhat confused in quality , he shaped his next question on an elastic model . 
'From any particular place ? 'I have been in many places . 
'What have you been ? asked Mr Boffin . 
Here again he made no great advance , for the reply was , 'I have been a student and a traveller . 
I have been superseded as to some slight intentions I had , and I may say that I have now to begin life . 
Sparrows were there , cats were there , dry rot and wet rot were there , but it was not otherwise a suggestive spot . 
'All this time , said the stranger , producing a little pocket book and taking out a card , 'I have not mentioned my name . 
I lodge at one Mr Wilfer's , at Holloway . 
'Father of Miss Bella Wilfer ? said he . 
'My landlord has a daughter named Bella . 
'Though , by the bye , I suppose it was one of that family that pinted me out ? 'No . 
I have never been in the streets with one of them . 
'Heard me talked of among 'em , though ? 'No . 
I occupy my own rooms , and have held scarcely any communication with them . 
'Odder and odder ! said Mr Boffin . 
'Well , sir , to tell you the truth , I don't know what to say to you . 
'Say nothing , returned Mr Rokesmith 'allow me to call on you in a few days . 
I am not so unconscionable as to think it likely that you would accept me on trust at first sight , and take me out of the very street . 
Let me come to you for your further opinion , at your leisure . 
Me and Mrs Boffin have not even settled that we shall make any change in our way of life . 
Mrs Boffin's inclinations certainly do tend towards Fashion but , being already set up in a fashionable way at the Bower , she may not make further alterations . 
However , sir , as you don't press yourself , I wish to meet you so far as saying , by all means call at the Bower if you like . 
Call in the course of a week or two . 
Professionally he declines and he falls , and as a friend he drops into poetry . 
Without observing that these duties seemed by no means clear to Mr Rokesmith's astonished comprehension , Mr Boffin went on 'And now , sir , I'll wish you good day . 
You can call at the Bower any time in a week or two . 
It's not above a mile or so from you , and your landlord can direct you to it . 
How do you spell it ? 'Why , as to the spelling of it , returned Mr Boffin , with great presence of mind , 'that's YOUR look out . 
Harmon's is all you've got to say to HIM . 
Morning , morning , morning ! And so departed , without looking back . 
an account of all he had said and done since breakfast . 
'This brings us round , my dear , he then pursued , 'to the question we left unfinished namely , whether there's to be any new go in for Fashion . 
'Now , I'll tell you what I want , Noddy , said Mrs Boffin , smoothing her dress with an air of immense enjoyment , 'I want Society . 
'Fashionable Society , my dear ? 'Yes ! cried Mrs Boffin , laughing with the glee of a child . 
the neighbours is welcome to see YOU for nothing . 
'But it don't answer , said the cheerfial Mrs Boffin . 
'When we worked like the neighbours , we suited one another . 
Now we have left work off we have left off suiting one another . 
'What , do you think of beginning work again ? Mr Boffin hinted . 
'Out of the question ! We have come into a great fortune , and we must do what's right by our fortune we must act up to it . 
Mr Boffin , who had a deep respect for his wife's intuitive wisdom , replied , though rather pensively 'I suppose we must . 
'It's never been acted up to yet , and , consequently , no good has come of it , said Mrs Boffin . 
'True , to the present time , Mr Boffin assented , with his former pensiveness , as he took his seat upon his settle . 
'I hope good may be coming of it in the future time . 
'I say , a good house in a good neighbourhood , good things about us , good living , and good society . 
I say , live like our means , without extravagance , and be happy . 
I say be happy , too , assented the still pensive Mr Boffin . 
'And what , my old lady , inquired Mr Boffin , when he also had sympathetically laughed 'what's your views on the subject of the Bower ? 'Shut it up . 
Don't part with it , but put somebody in it , to keep it . 
'What a thinking steam ingein this old lady is . 
And she don't know how she does it . 
Somehow , it would make me easier , I fancy . 
Say it's only a whim 'But I don't say so , interposed her husband . 
'No , but deary , if you did 'I should be a Beast if I did , her husband interposed again . 
These two ignorant and unpolished people had guided themselves so far on in their journey of life , by a religious sense of duty and desire to do right . 
Ten thousand weaknesses and absurdities might have been detected in the breasts of both ten thousand vanities additional , possibly , in the breast of the woman . 
In its own despite , in a constant conflict with itself and them , it had done so . 
And this is the eternal law . 
For , Evil often stops short at itself and dies with the doer of it but Good , never . 
Through his most inveterate purposes , the dead Jailer of Harmony Jail had known these two faithful servants to be honest and true . 
So , even while he was their griping taskmaster and never gave them a good word , he had written their names down in his will . 
Mr and Mrs Boffin , sitting side by side , with Fashion withdrawn to an immeasurable distance , fell to discussing how they could best find their orphan . 
Mrs Boffin next suggested application to their clergyman for a likely orphan . 
Mr Boffin thinking better of this scheme , they resolved to call upon the reverend gentleman at once , and to take the same opportunity of making acquaintance with Miss Bella Wilfer . 
In order that these visits might be visits of state , Mrs Boffin's equipage was ordered out . 
On their being descried emerging from the gates of the Bower , the neighbourhood turned out at door and window to salute the Boffins . 
At length the Bower district was left behind , and the peaceful dwelling of the Reverend Frank Milvey was gained . 
The Reverend Frank Milvey's abode was a very modest abode , because his income was a very modest income . 
He was officially accessible to every blundering old woman who had incoherence to bestow upon him , and readily received the Boffins . 
He was quite a young man , expensively educated and wretchedly paid , with quite a young wife and half a dozen quite young children . 
'I think , said Mr Milvey , 'that you have never had a child of your own , Mr and Mrs Boffin ? Never . 
'But , like the Kings and Queens in the Fairy Tales , I suppose you have wished for one ? In a general way , yes . 
Mr Milvey smiled again , as he remarked to himself 'Those kings and queens were always wishing for children . 
It occurring to him , perhaps , that if they had been Curates , their wishes might have tended in the opposite direction . 
'I think , he pursued , 'we had better take Mrs Milvey into our Council . 
She is indispensable to me . 
If you please , I'll call her . 
So , Mr Milvey called , 'Margaretta , my dear ! and Mrs Milvey came down . 
'Mr and Mrs Boffin , my dear , whose good fortune you have heard of . 
Mrs Milvey , with the most unaffected grace in the world , congratulated them , and was glad to see them . 
Yet her engaging face , being an open as well as a perceptive one , was not without her husband's latent smile . 
'Mrs Boffin wishes to adopt a little boy , my dear . 
Mrs Milvey , looking rather alarmed , her husband added 'An orphan , my dear . 
'Oh ! said Mrs Milvey , reassured for her own little boys . 
'And I was thinking , Margaretta , that perhaps old Mrs Goody's grandchild might answer the purpose . 
Because his grandmother takes so MANY ounces , and drops it over him . 
'But he would not be living with his grandmother then , Margaretta , said Mr Milvey . 
'No , Frank , but it would be impossible to keep her from Mrs Boffin's house and the MORE there was to eat and drink there , the oftener she would go . 
And she IS an inconvenient woman . 
I HOPE it's not uncharitable to remember that last Christmas Eve she drank eleven cups of tea , and grumbled all the time . 
And she is NOT a grateful woman , Frank . 
'That's true , said Mr Milvey . 
'I don't think that would do . 
Would little Harrison 'Oh , FRANK ! remonstrated his emphatic wife . 
'He has no grandmother , my dear . 
'No , but I DON'T think Mrs Boffin would like an orphan who squints so MUCH . 
'That's true again , said Mr Milvey , becoming haggard with perplexity . 
'If a little girl would do 'But , my DEAR Frank , Mrs Boffin wants a boy . 
'That's true again , said Mr Milvey . 
'Tom Bocker is a nice boy' . 
'But I DOUBT , Frank , Mrs Milvey hinted , after a little hesitation , 'if Mrs Boffin wants an orphan QUITE nineteen , who drives a cart and waters the roads . 
Mr Milvey referred the point to Mrs Boffin in a look on that smiling lady's shaking her black velvet bonnet and bows , he remarked , in lower spirits , 'that's true again . 
'PRAY don't say that ! urged Mrs Milvey . 
'No , don't say that , assented Mr Milvey , 'because we are so much obliged to you for giving us the preference . 
Which Mrs Milvey confirmed and really the kind , conscientious couple spoke , as if they kept some profitable orphan warehouse and were personally patronized . 
'But it is a responsible trust , added Mr Milvey , 'and difficult to discharge . 
'To be SURE ! said the emphatic little wife . 
And even if you exchanged blankets for the child or books and firing it would be impossible to prevent their being turned into liquor . 
'Now , old lady , said Mr Boffin , as they resumed their seats behind the hammer headed horse and man 'having made a very agreeable visit there , we'll try Wilfer's . 
The young lady was astonished to find visitors at the gate , and expressed her feelings in appropriate action . 
'Who did you say ? asked Miss Lavinia . 
'Mr and Mrs BOFFIN' returned the young man , rising into a roar . 
Miss Lavinia tripped up the steps to the house door , tripped down the steps with the key , tripped across the little garden , and opened the gate . 
'Please to walk in , said Miss Lavinia , haughtily . 
Mrs Wilfer's legs , Miss Bella's legs , Mr George Sampson's legs . 
'Mr and Mrs Boffin , I think ? said Lavinia , in a warning voice . 
Strained attention on the part of Mrs Wilfer's legs , of Miss Bella's legs , of Mr George Sampson's legs . 
'If you'll step this way down these stairs I'll let Ma know . 
Excited flight of Mrs Wilfer's legs , of Miss Bella's legs , of Mr George Sampson's legs . 
'I have heard , sir , returned Mrs Wilfer , with a dignified bend of her head , 'of such being the case . 
''Twere unjust to visit upon Mr and Mrs Boffin , a calamity which was doubtless a dispensation . 
These words were rendered the more effective by a serenely heroic expression of suffering . 
In short , we want to cheer your daughter , and to give her the opportunity of sharing such pleasures as we are a going to take ourselves . 
We want to brisk her up , and brisk her about , and give her a change . 
'That's it ! said the open hearted Mrs Boffin . 
'Lor ! Let's be comfortable . 
Mrs Wilfer bent her head in a distant manner to her lady visitor , and with majestic monotony replied to the gentleman 'Pardon me . 
Which of my daughters am I to understand is thus favoured by the kind intentions of Mr Boffin and his lady ? 'Don't you see ? the ever smiling Mrs Boffin put in . 
'Naturally , Miss Bella , you know . 
'Oh h ! said Mrs Wilfer , with a severely unconvinced look . 
'My daughter Bella is accessible and shall speak for herself . 
'Very pleasant premises ! said Mr Boffin , cheerfully . 
'Pardon me , sir , returned Mrs Wilfer , correcting him , 'it is the abode of conscious though independent Poverty . 
'I am much obliged to you , I am sure , said Miss Bella , coldly shaking her curls , 'but I doubt if I have the inclination to go out at all . 
'Bella ! Mrs Wilfer admonished her 'Bella , you must conquer this . 
With the natural tendency of youth to yield to candour and sweet temper , Miss Bella was so touched by the simplicity of this address that she frankly returned Mrs Boffin's kiss . 
Not at all to the satisfaction of that good woman of the world , her mother , who sought to hold the advantageous ground of obliging the Boffins instead of being obliged . 
'My youngest daughter , Lavinia , said Mrs Wilfer , glad to make a diversion , as that young lady reappeared . 
'Mr George Sampson , a friend of the family . 
The friend of the family was in that stage of tender passion which bound him to regard everybody else as the foe of the family . 
He put the round head of his cane in his mouth , like a stopper , when he sat down . 
As if he felt himself full to the throat with affronting sentiments . 
And he eyed the Boffins with implacable eyes . 
'If you like to bring your sister with you when you come to stay with us , said Mrs Boffin , 'of course we shall be glad . 
The better you please yourself , Miss Bella , the better you'll please us . 
'Oh , my consent is of no consequence at all , I suppose ? cried Miss Lavinia . 
'Lavvy , said her sister , in a low voice , 'have the goodness to be seen and not heard . 
'No , I won't , replied the sharp Lavinia . 
'I'm not a child , to be taken notice of by strangers . 
'I'm not a child , and I won't be taken notice of . 
Bring your sister , indeed ! 'Lavinia ! said Mrs Wilfer . 
'Hold ! I will not allow you to utter in my presence the absurd suspicion that any strangers I care not what their names can patronize my child . 
'It's all very fine , Lavinia began to grumble , when Mrs Wilfer repeated 'Hold ! I will not allow this . 
'Pardon me , but I do , returned Mrs Wilfer . 
Miss Lavinia laughed a short laugh as she muttered , 'Yes , to be sure . 
But , here Miss Bella repudiated , and said quietly , 'I can speak for myself you know , ma . 
You needn't bring ME in , please . 
'And it's all very well aiming at others through convenient me , said the irrepressible Lavinia , spitefully 'but I should like to ask George Sampson what he says to it . 
'I may call him Our Mutual Friend , said Mr Boffin . 
'What sort of a fellow IS Our Mutual Friend , now ? Do you like him ? 'Mr Rokesmith is very punctual , very quiet , a very eligible inmate . 
'Because , Mr Boffin explained , 'you must know that I'm not particularly well acquainted with Our Mutual Friend , for I have only seen him once . 
You give a good account of him . 
Is he at home ? 'Mr Rokesmith is at home , said Mrs Wilfer 'indeed , pointing through the window , 'there he stands at the garden gate . 
Waiting for you , perhaps ? 'Perhaps so , replied Mr Boffin . 
'Saw me come in , maybe . 
Bella had closely attended to this short dialogue . 
Accompanying Mrs Boffin to the gate , she as closely watched what followed . 
'How are you , sir , how are you ? said Mr Boffin . 
Mr Rokesmith , that I told you of my dear . 
She gave him good day , and he bestirred himself and helped her to her seat , and the like , with a ready hand . 
'Good bye for the present , Miss Bella , said Mrs Boffin , calling out a hearty parting . 
'We shall meet again soon ! And then I hope I shall have my little John Harmon to show you . 
'It's only an adopted child . 
One I have told her of . 
Now , Bella suspected by this time that Mr Rokesmith admired her . 
But at most times he occupied a great amount of her attention , and she had set her attention closely on this incident . 
That he knew it as well as she , she knew as well as he , when they were left together standing on the path by the garden gate . 
'Those are worthy people , Miss Wilfer . 
'Do you know them well ? asked Bella . 
'Truly , he told us he had seen you but once . 
'Truly , I supposed he did . 
Bella was nervous now , and would have been glad to recall her question . 
I might have known of course in a moment should have known that it could not have that meaning . 
You'll be rich enough now with your Boffins . 
You can have as much flirting as you like at your Boffins . 
'Of their manners , said Mrs Wilfer , 'I say nothing . 
Of their appearance , I say nothing . 
Of the disinterestedness of their intentions towards Bella , I say nothing . 
But the craft , the secrecy , the dark deep underhanded plotting , written in Mrs Boffin's countenance , make me shudder . 
As an incontrovertible proof that those baleful attributes were all there , Mrs Wilfer shuddered on the spot . 
Chapter A MARRIAGE CONTRACT There is excitement in the Veneering mansion . 
to the mature young gentleman , and she is to be married from the Veneering house , and the Veneerings are to give the breakfast . 
The mature young lady is a lady of property . 
The mature young gentleman is a gentleman of property . 
He goes , in a condescending amateurish way , into the City , attends meetings of Directors , and has to do with traffic in Shares . 
As is well known to the wise in their generation , traffic in Shares is the one thing to have to do with in this world . 
Have no antecedents , no established character , no cultivation , no ideas , no manners have Shares . 
Have Shares enough to be on Boards of Direction in capital letters , oscillate on mysterious business between London and Paris , and be great . 
Where does he come from ? Shares . 
Where is he going to ? Shares . 
What are his tastes ? Shares . 
Has he any principles ? Shares . 
What squeezes him into Parliament ? Shares . 
Perhaps he never of himself achieved success in anything , never originated anything , never produced anything ? Sufficient answer to all Shares . 
It would seem that both the mature young lady and the mature young gentleman must indubitably be Veneering's oldest friends . 
Wards of his , perhaps ? Yet that can scarcely be , for they are older than himself . 
Veneering has been in their confidence throughout , and has done much to lure them to the altar . 
He has mentioned to Twemlow how he said to Mrs Veneering , 'Anastatia , this must be a match . 
in the light of a brother . 
Twemlow has asked him whether he went to school as a junior with Alfred ? He has answered , 'Not exactly . 
Whether Sophronia was adopted by his mother ? He has answered , 'Not precisely so . 
Twemlow's hand has gone to his forehead with a lost air . 
Apparently , Podsnap has been so wrought upon in a short time , as to believe that he has been intimate in the house many , many , many years . 
In the friendliest manner he is making himself quite at home with his back to the fire , executing a statuette of the Colossus at Rhodes . 
Twemlow has before noticed in his feeble way how soon the Veneering guests become infected with the Veneering fiction . 
Not , however , that he has the least notion of its being his own case . 
'I did hope , Veneering goes on , 'to have had Lady Tippins to meet you but she is always in request , and is unfortunately engaged . 
'Boots and Brewer , observes Veneering , 'whom you also know , I have not asked to day but I reserve them for the occasion . 
'We now come , says Veneering , 'to the point , the real point , of our little family consultation . 
Sophronia , having lost both father and mother , has no one to give her away . 
'Give her away yourself , says Podsnap . 
'My dear Podsnap , no . 
Firstly , because I couldn't take so much upon myself when I have respected family friends to remember . 
Secondly , because I am not so vain as to think that I look the part . 
Thirdly , because Anastatia is a little superstitious on the subject and feels averse to my giving away anybody until baby is old enough to be married . 
'What would happen if he did ? Podsnap inquires of Mrs Veneering . 
'My dear Mr Podsnap , it's very foolish I know , but I have an instinctive presentiment that if Hamilton gave away anybody else first , he would never give away baby . 
That friend , saying the words as if the company were about a hundred and fifty in number , 'is now among us . 
'That friend , Veneering repeats with greater firmness , 'is our dear good Twemlow . 
And , indeed , Veneering is much relieved in mind to find that Podsnap betrays no jealousy of Twemlow's elevation . 
, to thank Twemlow for counterfeiting the late Horatio Akershem Esquire , broadly of Yorkshire . 
, and that she has a tenderness for him still . 
Brooding over the fire , with his dried little head in his dried little hands , and his dried little elbows on his dried little knees , Twemlow is melancholy . 
'No Adorable to bear me company here ! thinks he . 
'No Adorable at the club ! A waste , a waste , a waste , my Twemlow ! And so drops asleep , and has galvanic starts all over him . 
begins to be dyed and varnished for the interesting occasion . 
She has a reputation for giving smart accounts of things , and she must be at these people's early , my dear , to lose nothing of the fun . 
She has a large gold eye glass , has Lady Tippins , to survey the proceedings with . 
If she had one in each eye , it might keep that other drooping lid up , and look more uniform . 
But perennial youth is in her artificial flowers , and her list of lovers is full . 
Eugene is also in attendance , with a pervading air upon him of having presupposed the ceremony to be a funeral , and of being disappointed . 
The scene is the Vestry room of St James's Church , with a number of leathery old registers on shelves , that might be bound in Lady Tippinses . 
But , hark ! A carriage at the gate , and Mortimer's man arrives , looking rather like a spurious Mephistopheles and an unacknowledged member of that gentleman's family . 
Whom Lady Tippins , standing on a cushion , surveying through the eye glass , thus checks off . 
'Bride five and forty if a day , thirty shillings a yard , veil fifteen pound , pocket handkerchief a present . 
Twemlow blessed release for the dear man if she really was his daughter , nervous even under the pretence that she is , well he may be . 
Here , the Podsnaps await the happy party Mr Podsnap , with his hair brushes made the most of that imperial rocking horse , Mrs Podsnap , majestically skittish . 
Here , too , the bride's aunt and next relation a widowed female of a Medusa sort , in a stoney cap , glaring petrifaction at her fellow creatures . 
Here , too , the bride's trustee an oilcake fed style of business gentleman with mooney spectacles , and an object of much interest . 
, and confidentially retiring with him into the conservatory , it is understood that Veneering is his co trustee , and that they are arranging about the fortune . 
Buffers are even overheard to whisper Thir ty Thou sand Pou nds ! with a smack and a relish suggestive of the very finest oysters . 
Pokey unknowns , amazed to find how intimately they know Veneering , pluck up spirit , fold their arms , and begin to contradict him before breakfast . 
What time Mrs Veneering , carrying baby dressed as a bridesmaid , flits about among the company , emitting flashes of many coloured lightning from diamonds , emeralds , and rubies . 
Dining room no less magnificent than drawing room tables superb all the camels out , and all laden . 
Splendid cake , covered with Cupids , silver , and true lovers' knots . 
Splendid bracelet , produced by Veneering before going down , and clasped upon the arrn of bride . 
Yet nobody seems to think much more of the Veneerings than if they were a tolerable landlord and landlady doing the thing in the way of business at so much a head . 
Another dismal circumstance is , that Veneering , having the captivating Tippins on one side of him and the bride's aunt on the other , finds it immensely difficult to keep the peace . 
Another objectionable circumstance is , that the pokey unknowns support each other in being unimpressible . 
They persist in not being frightened by the gold and silver camels , and they are banded together to defy the elaborately chased ice pails . 
In which state of affairs , the usual ceremonies rather droop and flag , and the splendid cake when cut by the fair hand of the bride has but an indigestible appearance . 
, and there is hurried preparation for the nuptial journey to the Isle of Wight , and the outer air teems with brass bands and spectators . 
In full sight of whom , the malignant star of the Analytical has pre ordained that pain and ridicule shall befall him . 
All over , that is to say , for the time being . 
As if he were of the Mephistopheles family indeed , and had walked with a drooping tail . 
'Do you mean to tell me , then , Sophronia Thus he begins after a long silence , when Sophronia flashes fiercely , and turns upon him . 
'Don't put it upon ME , sir . 
I ask you , do YOU mean to tell me ? Mr Lammle falls silent again , and they walk as before . 
'Do I mean to say ! Mrs Lammle after a time repeats , with indignation . 
'Putting it on me ! The unmanly disingenuousness ! Mr Lammle stops , releases his whiskers , and looks at her . 
'The what ? Mrs Lammle haughtily replies , without stopping , and without looking back . 
He is at her side again in a pace or two , and he retorts , 'That is not what you said . 
'What if I did ? 'There is no if in the case . 
And what of it ? 'What of it ? says Mr Lammle . 
'Have you the face to utter the word to me ? 'The face , too ! replied Mrs Lammle , staring at him with cold scorn . 
'Pray , how dare you , sir , utter the word to me ? 'I never did . 
As this happens to be true , Mrs Lammle is thrown on the feminine resource of saying , 'I don't care what you uttered or did not utter . 
After a little more walking and a little more silence , Mr Lammle breaks the latter . 
'You shall proceed in your own way . 
You claim a right to ask me do I mean to tell you . 
Do I mean to tell you what ? 'That you are a man of property ? 'No . 
'Then you married me on false pretences ? 'So be it . 
Next comes what you mean to say . 
Do you mean to say you are a woman of property ? 'No . 
'Then you married me on false pretences . 
'I asked Veneering , and he told me you were rich . 
'Veneering ! with great contempt . 
And what does Veneering know about me ! 'Was he not your trustee ? 'No . 
I have no trustee , but the one you saw on the day when you fraudulently married me . 
And his trust is not a very difficult one , for it is only an annuity of a hundred and fifteen pounds . 
I think there are some odd shillings or pence , if you are very particular . 
Mr Lammle bestows a by no means loving look upon the partner of his joys and sorrows , and he mutters something but checks himself . 
It is my turn again , Mrs Lammle . 
What made you suppose me a man of property ? 'You made me suppose you so . 
Perhaps you will deny that you always presented yourself to me in that character ? 'But you asked somebody , too . 
Come , Mrs Lammle , admission for admission . 
You asked somebody ? 'I asked Veneering . 
'And Veneering knew as much of me as he knew of you , or as anybody knows of him . 
After more silent walking , the bride stops short , to say in a passionate manner 'I never will forgive the Veneerings for this ! 'Neither will I , returns the bridegroom . 
With that , they walk again she , making those angry spirts in the sand he , dragging that dejected tail . 
The tide is low , and seems to have thrown them together high on the bare shore . 
A gull comes sweeping by their heads and flouts them . 
There was a golden surface on the brown cliffs but now , and behold they are only damp earth . 
A taunting roar comes from the sea , and the far out rollers mount upon one another , to look at the entrapped impostors , and to join in impish and exultant gambols . 
What do you pretend to believe ? 'So you first deceive me and then insult me ! cries the lady , with a heaving bosom . 
The double edged question was yours . 
'Was mine ! the bride repeats , and her parasol breaks in her angry hand . 
But he has repressive power , and she has none . 
'Throw it away , he coolly recommends as to the parasol 'you have made it useless you look ridiculous with it . 
Whereupon she calls him in her rage , 'A deliberate villain , and so casts the broken thing from her as that it strikes him in falling . 
The finger marks are something whiter for the instant , but he walks on at her side . 
She bursts into tears , declaring herself the wretchedest , the most deceived , the worst used , of women . 
Then she says that if she had the courage to kill herself , she would do it . 
Then she calls him vile impostor . 
Then she asks him , why , in the disappointment of his base speculation , he does not take her life with his own hand , under the present favourable circumstances . 
Then she is enraged again , and makes some mention of swindlers . 
Finally , she sits down crying on a block of stone , and is in all the known and unknown humours of her sex at once . 
Also his livid lips are parted at last , as if he were breathless with running . 
'Now , get up , Mrs Lammle , and let us speak reasonably . 
She sits upon her stone , and takes no heed of him . 
'Get up , I tell you . 
Come ! Do you hear ? Get up . 
Yielding to his hand , she rises , and they walk again but this time with their faces turned towards their place of residence . 
'Mrs Lammle , we have both been deceiving , and we have both been deceived . 
We have both been biting , and we have both been bitten . 
In a nut shell , there's the state of the case . 
'You sought me out 'Tut ! Let us have done with that . 
WE know very well how it was . 
Why should you and I talk about it , when you and I can't disguise it ? To proceed . 
I am disappointed and cut a poor figure . 
'Am I no one ? 'Some one and I was coming to you , if you had waited a moment . 
You , too , are disappointed and cut a poor figure . 
When I look back , I wonder how I can have been such a fool as to take you to so great an extent upon trust . 
'And when I look back the bride cries , interrupting . 
'And when you look back , you wonder how you can have been you'll excuse the word ? 'Most certainly , with so much reason . 
Such a fool as to take ME to so great an extent upon trust . 
But the folly is committed on both sides . 
I cannot get rid of you you cannot get rid of me . 
What follows ? 'Shame and misery , the bride bitterly replies . 
A mutual understanding follows , and I think it may carry us through . 
, into three heads , to make it shorter and plainer . 
Firstly , it's enough to have been done , without the mortification of being known to have been done . 
So we agree to keep the fact to ourselves . 
You agree ? 'If it is possible , I do . 
'Possible ! We have pretended well enough to one another . 
Can't we , united , pretend to the world ? Agreed . 
Secondly , we owe the Veneerings a grudge , and we owe all other people the grudge of wishing them to be taken in , as we ourselves have been taken in . 
'We come smoothly to thirdly . 
You have called me an adventurer , Sophronia . 
In plain uncomplimentary English , so I am . 
So are you , my dear . 
We agree to keep our own secret , and to work together in furtherance of our own schemes . 
'What schemes ? 'Any scheme that will bring us money . 
By our own schemes , I mean our joint interest . 
Agreed ? She answers , after a little hesitation , 'I suppose so . 
'Carried at once , you see ! Now , Sophronia , only half a dozen words more . 
We know one another perfectly . 
With this good understanding established between us , it is better never done . 
To wind up all You have shown temper today , Sophronia . 
Don't be betrayed into doing so again , because I have a Devil of a temper myself . 
So , the happy pair , with this hopeful marriage contract thus signed , sealed , and delivered , repair homeward . 
Chapter PODSNAPPERY Mr Podsnap was well to do , and stood very high in Mr Podsnap's opinion . 
Beginning with a good inheritance , he had married a good inheritance , and had thriven exceedingly in the Marine Insurance way , and was quite satisfied . 
Thus happily acquainted with his own merit and importance , Mr Podsnap settled that whatever he put behind him he put out of existence . 
with those words and a flushed face . 
Mr Podsnap's notions of the Arts in their integrity might have been stated thus . 
Nothing else to be permitted to those same vagrants the Arts , on pain of excommunication . 
Nothing else To Be anywhere ! As a so eminently respectable man , Mr Podsnap was sensible of its being required of him to take Providence under his protection . 
Consequently he always knew exactly what Providence meant . 
Inferior and less respectable men might fall short of that mark , but Mr Podsnap was always up to it . 
that what Providence meant , was invariably what Mr Podsnap meant . 
These may be said to have been the articles of a faith and school which the present chapter takes the liberty of calling , after its representative man , Podsnappery . 
There was a Miss Podsnap . 
And this young rocking horse was being trained in her mother's art of prancing in a stately manner without ever getting on . 
A certain institution in Mr Podsnap's mind which he called 'the young person' may be considered to have been embodied in Miss Podsnap , his daughter . 
It was an inconvenient and exacting institution , as requiring everything in the universe to be filed down and fitted to it . 
There appeared to be no line of demarcation between the young person's excessive innocence , and another person's guiltiest knowledge . 
Take Mr Podsnap's word for it , and the soberest tints of drab , white , lilac , and grey , were all flaming red to this troublesome Bull of a young person . 
The Podsnaps lived in a shady angle adjoining Portman Square . 
They were a kind of people certain to dwell in the shade , wherever they dwelt . 
Said Mr Podsnap to Mrs Podsnap , 'Georgiana is almost eighteen . 
Said Mrs Podsnap to Mr Podsnap , assenting , 'Almost eighteen . 
Said Mr Podsnap then to Mrs Podsnap , 'Really I think we should have some people on Georgiana's birthday . 
Said Mrs Podsnap then to Mr Podsnap , 'Which will enable us to clear off all those people who are due . 
Mr and Mrs Veneering , and Mr and Mrs Veneering's bran new bride and bridegroom , were of the dinner company but the Podsnap establishment had nothing else in common with the Veneerings . 
Mr Podsnap could tolerate taste in a mushroom man who stood in need of that sort of thing , but was far above it himself . 
Hideous solidity was the characteristic of the Podsnap plate . 
Everything was made to look as heavy as it could , and to take up as much room as possible . 
All the big silver spoons and forks widened the mouths of the company expressly for the purpose of thrusting the sentiment down their throats with every morsel they ate . 
The majority of the guests were like the plate , and included several heavy articles weighing ever so much . 
, 'Monsieur Vey nair reeng , and had then subsided into English . 
'You find it Very Large ? said Mr Podsnap , spaciously . 
The foreign gentleman found it very large . 
'And Very Rich ? The foreign gentleman found it , without doubt , enormement riche . 
'Enormously Rich , We say , returned Mr Podsnap , in a condescending manner . 
'Our English adverbs do Not terminate in Mong , and We Pronounce the ch as if there were a t before it . 
'Reetch , remarked the foreign gentleman . 
'The Constitution Britannique , Mr Podsnap explained , as if he were teaching in an infant school . 
We Say British , But You Say Britannique , You Know' . 
The foreign gentleman said , 'Mais , yees I know eem . 
'Mais oui , said the foreign gentleman , turning towards him . 
'Ah ! Of a Orse ? inquired the foreign gentleman . 
'We call it Horse , said Mr Podsnap , with forbearance . 
'In England , Angleterre , England , We Aspirate the H , and We Say Horse . 
Ours is a Copious Language , and Trying to Strangers . 
I will not Pursue my Question . 
But the lumpy gentleman , unwilling to give it up , again madly said , 'ESKER , and again spake no more . 
'It merely referred , Mr Podsnap explained , with a sense of meritorious proprietorship , 'to Our Constitution , Sir . 
We Englishmen are Very Proud of our Constitution , Sir . 
It Was Bestowed Upon Us By Providence . 
No Other Country is so Favoured as This Country . 
'And ozer countries ? the foreign gentleman was beginning , when Mr Podsnap put him right again . 
'We do not say Ozer we say Other the letters are T and H You say Tay and Aish , You Know . 
The sound is th th ! 'And OTHER countries , said the foreign gentleman . 
'They do how ? 'They do , Sir , returned Mr Podsnap , gravely shaking his head 'they do I am sorry to be obliged to say it AS they do . 
'It was a little particular of Providence , said the foreign gentleman , laughing 'for the frontier is not large . 
'Undoubtedly , assented Mr Podsnap 'But So it is . 
It was the Charter of the Land . 
This Island was Blest , Sir , to the Direct Exclusion of such Other Countries as as there may happen to be . 
The audience were much edified by this passage of words and Mr Podsnap , feeling that he was in rather remarkable force to day , became smiling and conversational . 
'Has anything more been heard , Veneering , he inquired , 'of the lucky legatee ? 'Nothing more , returned Veneering , 'than that he has come into possession of the property . 
I am told people now call him The Golden Dustman . 
, and curious that one of your people should have been so nearly interested in it . 
Indeed , such another lucky hit would almost have set him up in that way to his satisfaction . 
In the mean time , Mrs Veneering had dived into the same waters for a wealthy Ship Broker , and had brought him up , safe and sound , by the hair . 
As its returns were immediate , too , in the way of restraining the company from speechless contemplation of the wine coolers , it paid , and he was satisfied . 
in the articles of Podsnappery . 
It was somehow understood , as a secret article in the state proprieties of Podsnappery that nothing must be said about the day . 
Consequently this young damsel's nativity was hushed up and looked over , as if it were agreed on all hands that it would have been better that she had never been born . 
Mrs Lammle was overjoyed to escape into a corner for a little quiet talk . 
'Let us make a beginning , said the insinuating Mrs Lammle , with her best smile . 
'Oh ! I am afraid you'll find me very dull . 
But Ma talks ! That was plainly to be seen , for Ma was talking then at her usual canter , with arched head and mane , opened eyes and nostrils . 
'Fond of reading perhaps ? 'Yes . 
At least I don't mind that so much , returned Miss Podsnap . 
'M m m m music . 
So insinuating was Mrs Lammle that she got half a dozen ms into the word before she got it out . 
'I haven't nerve to play even if I could . 
'Of course you like dancing ? 'Oh no , I don't , said Miss Podsnap . 
I can't say then how I should have liked it , if I had been a chimney sweep on May day . 
'Gracious ! was the exclamation which amazement elicited from Mrs Lammle . 
'There ! I knew you'd wonder . 
How I wish we could be real friends ! Try me as a real friend . 
Come ! Don't fancy me a frumpy old married woman , my dear I was married but the other day , you know I am dressed as a bride now , you see . 
About the chimney sweeps ? 'Hush ! Ma'll hear . 
'She can't hear from where she sits . 
'Don't you be too sure of that , said Miss Podsnap , in a lower voice . 
'Well , what I mean is , that they seem to enjoy it . 
'And that perhaps you would have enjoyed it , if you had been one of them ? Miss Podsnap nodded significantly . 
'Then you don't enjoy it now ? 'How is it possible ? said Miss Podsnap . 
'Oh it is such a dreadful thing ! If I was wicked enough and strong enough to kill anybody , it should be my partner . 
This was such an entirely new view of the Terpsichorean art as socially practised , that Mrs Lammle looked at her young friend in some astonishment . 
Her young friend sat nervously twiddling her fingers in a pinioned attitude , as if she were trying to hide her elbows . 
always appeared to be the great inoffensive aim of her existence . 
'It sounds horrid , don't it ? said Miss Podsnap , with a penitential face . 
Mrs Lammle , not very well knowing what to answer , resolved herself into a look of smiling encouragement . 
'But it is , and it always has been , pursued Miss Podsnap , 'such a trial to me ! I so dread being awful . 
'At any rate , my love , said Mrs Lammle , soothingly , 'that's over . 
'Yes , it's over , returned Miss Podsnap , 'but there's nothing gained by that . 
It's worse here , than at Madame Sauteuse's . 
Ma was there , and Ma's here but Pa wasn't there , and company wasn't there , and there were not real partners there . 
, and bending over the back of it , trifled for some few seconds with Mrs Lammle's bracelet . 
But it was all done as a breath passes from a mirror . 
And now , the grand chain riveted to the last link , the discreet automaton ceased , and the sixteen , two and two , took a walk among the furniture . 
'Oh my goodness , said Miss Podsnap . 
'THAT'S over ! I hope you didn't look at me . 
'My dear , why not ? 'Oh I know all about myself , said Miss Podsnap . 
'I'll tell you something I know about you , my dear , returned Mrs Lammle in her winning way , 'and that is , you are most unnecessarily shy . 
'Ma ain't , said Miss Podsnap . 
I detest you ! Go along ! This shot was levelled under her breath at the gallant Grompus for bestowing an insinuating smile upon her in passing . 
'Pardon me if I scarcely see , my dear Miss Podsnap , Mrs Lammle was beginning when the young lady interposed . 
don't let us be awful . 
It's awful enough to BE Miss Podsnap , without being called so . 
'Dearest Georgiana , Mrs Lammle began again . 
'Thank you , said Miss Podsnap . 
'Dearest Georgiana , pardon me if I scarcely see , my love , why your mamma's not being shy , is a reason why you should be . 
'Don't you really see that ? asked Miss Podsnap , plucking at her fingers in a troubled manner , and furtively casting her eyes now on Mrs Lammle , now on the ground . 
'Then perhaps it isn't ? 'My dearest Georgiana , you defer much too readily to my poor opinion . 
Indeed it is not even an opinion , darling , for it is only a confession of my dullness . 
'Oh YOU are not dull , returned Miss Podsnap . 
'I am dull , but you couldn't have made me talk if you were . 
Not that it meant anything , but that Georgiana seemed to like it . 
It was clearly ill timed after dinner . 
It was not adapted to the cheek of the young person . 
It was not in good taste . 
'I don't believe it , said Mr Podsnap , putting it behind him . 
The meek man was afraid we must take it as proved , because there were the Inquests and the Registrar's returns . 
'Then it was their own fault , said Mr Podsnap . 
Veneering and other elders of tribes commended this way out of it . 
At once a short cut and a broad road . 
The meek man was quite willing to concede that , but perhaps it rendered the matter even worse , as showing that there must be something appallingly wrong somewhere . 
'Where ? said Mr Podsnap . 
The meek man hinted Wouldn't it be well to try , very seriously , to find out where ? 'Ah ! said Mr Podsnap . 
'Easy to say somewhere not so easy to say where ! But I see what you are driving at . 
I knew it from the first . 
No. Never with my consent . 
that he was driving at any ization . 
He had no favourite ization that he knew of . 
But he certainly was more staggered by these terrible occurrences than he was by names , of howsoever so many syllables . 
Might he ask , was dying of destitution and neglect necessarily English ? 'You know what the population of London is , I suppose , said Mr Podsnap . 
The meek man supposed he did , but supposed that had absolutely nothing to do with it , if its laws were well administered . 
'I am glad to hear it , said Mr Podsnap with a portentous air . 
'I am glad to hear it . 
It will render you cautious how you fly in the face of Providence . 
So he said 'I must decline to pursue this painful discussion . 
It is not pleasant to my feelings it is repugnant to my feelings . 
I have said that I do not admit these things . 
, the fault lies with the sufferers themselves . 
I know better than that , I trust , and I have mentioned what the intentions of Providence are . 
Besides , said Mr Podsnap , flushing high up among his hair brushes , with a strong consciousness of personal affront , 'the subject is a very disagreeable one . 
I will go so far as to say it is an odious one . 
And who should be with Mrs Lammle , but Mr Lammle . 
So fond of her ! 'Alfred , my love , here is my friend . 
Georgiana , dearest girl , you must like my husband next to me . 
Mr Lammle was proud to be so soon distinguished by this special commendation to Miss Podsnap's favour . 
But if Mr Lammle were prone to be jealous of his dear Sophronia's friendships , he would be jealous of her feeling towards Miss Podsnap . 
'Say Georgiana , darling , interposed his wife . 
'Towards shall I ? Georgiana . 
Mr Lammle uttered the name , with a delicate curve of his right hand , from his lips outward . 
so attracted and so captivated as she is by shall I once more ? Georgiana . 
'Dearest Georgiana , for yourself . 
For your difference from all around you . 
'Well ! That may be . 
For I think I like you for your difference from all around me , said Georgiana with a smile of relief . 
'We must be going with the rest , observed Mrs Lammle , rising with a show of unwillingness , amidst a general dispersal . 
'We are real friends , Georgiana dear ? 'Real . 
Good night ! Charming to see Mr and Mrs Lammle taking leave so gracefully , and going down the stairs so lovingly and sweetly . 
Not quite so charming to see their smiling faces fall and brood as they dropped moodily into separate corners of their little carriage . 
But to he sure that was a sight behind the scenes , which nobody saw , and which nobody was meant to see . 
Attend to what I am going to say . 
'I have attended to what you have already said , have I not ? What else have I been doing all to night . 
'Attend , I tell you , 'to what I am going to say . 
Keep close to that idiot girl . 
Keep her under your thumb . 
You have her fast , and you are not to let her go . 
Do you hear ? 'I hear you . 
'I foresee there is money to be made out of this , besides taking that fellow down a peg . 
We owe each other money , you know . 
Chapter THE SWEAT OF AN HONEST MAN'S BROW Mr Mortimer Lightwood and Mr Eugene Wrayburn took a coffee house dinner together in Mr Lightwood's office . 
They had newly agreed to set up a joint establishment together . 
The grating wind sawed rather than blew and as it sawed , the sawdust whirled about the sawpit . 
Every street was a sawpit , and there were no top sawyers every passenger was an under sawyer , with the sawdust blinding him and choking him . 
That mysterious paper currency which circulates in London when the wind blows , gyrated here and there and everywhere . 
There , it blows nothing but dust . 
There , sharp eyes and sharp stomachs reap even the east wind , and get something out of it . 
The wind sawed , and the sawdust whirled . 
And ever the wind sawed , and the sawdust whirled . 
So the two old schoolfellows felt it to be , as , their dinner done , they turned towards the fire to smoke . 
Young Blight was gone , the coffee house waiter was gone , the plates and dishes were gone , the wine was going but not in the same direction . 
'The wind sounds up here , quoth Eugene , stirring the fire , 'as if we were keeping a lighthouse . 
'Don't you think it would bore us ? Lightwood asked . 
'Not more than any other place . 
And there would be no Circuit to go . 
But that's a selfish consideration , personal to me . 
'And no clients to come , added Lightwood . 
'Not that that's a selfish consideration at all personal to ME . 
People couldn't ask one to wedding breakfasts . 
There would be no Precedents to hammer at , except the plain sailing Precedent of keeping the light up . 
It would be exciting to look out for wrecks . 
'But otherwise , suggested Lightwood , 'there might be a degree of sameness in the life . 
It would not extend beyond two people . 
As Lightwood laughed and passed the wine , he remarked , 'We shall have an opportunity , in our boating summer , of trying the question . 
'An imperfect one , Eugene acquiesced , with a sigh , 'but so we shall . 
I hope we may not prove too much for one another . 
'Yes , regarding my respected father , assented Eugene , settling himself in his arm chair . 
'I would rather have approached my respected father by candlelight , as a theme requiring a little artificial brilliancy but we will take him by twilight , enlivened with a glow of Wallsend . 
He stirred the fire again as he spoke , and having made it blaze , resumed . 
'My respected father has found , down in the parental neighbourhood , a wife for his not generally respected son . 
'With some money , of course ? 'With some money , of course , or he would not have found her . 
My respected father let me shorten the dutiful tautology by substituting in future M. R. F. , which sounds military , and rather like the Duke of Wellington . 
'What an absurd fellow you are , Eugene ! 'Not at all , I assure you . 
, and also the married man I am not . 
'The first you have often told me . 
'The first I have often told you . 
Considering myself sufficiently incongruous on my legal eminence , I have until now suppressed my domestic destiny . 
You know M. R. F. , but not as well as I do . 
If you knew him as well as I do , he would amuse you . 
'Filially spoken , Eugene ! 'Perfectly so , believe me and with every sentiment of affectionate deference towards M. R. F. But if he amuses me , I can't help it . 
that he was heir to the Family Embarrassments we call it before the company the Family Estate . 
But when my second brother was going to be born by and by , this , says M. R. F. , is a little pillar of the church . 
WAS born , and became a pillar of the church a very shaky one . 
My third brother appeared , considerably in advance of his engagement to my mother but M. R. F. , not at all put out by surprise , instantly declared him a Circumnavigator . 
Was pitch forked into the Navy , but has not circumnavigated . 
I announced myself and was disposed of with the highly satisfactory results embodied before you . 
When my younger brother was half an hour old , it was settled by M. R. F. that he should have a mechanical genius . 
Therefore I say that M. R. F. amuses me . 
'Touching the lady , Eugene . 
'There M. R. F. ceases to be amusing , because my intentions are opposed to touching the lady . 
'Do you know her ? 'Not in the least . 
'Hadn't you better see her ? 'My dear Mortimer , you have studied my character . 
Could I possibly go down there , labelled ELIGIBLE . 
ON VIEW , and meet the lady , similarly labelled ? Anything to carry out M. R. F. 's arrangements , I am sure , with the greatest pleasure except matrimony . 
Could I possibly support it ? I , so soon bored , so constantly , so fatally ? 'But you are not a consistent fellow , Eugene . 
'In susceptibility to boredom , returned that worthy , 'I assure you I am the most consistent of mankind . 
'Why , it was but now that you were dwelling in the advantages of a monotony of two . 
Do me the justice to remember the condition . 
With every disposition to oblige him , he must submit to a failure . 
It had grown darker as they talked , and the wind was sawing and the sawdust was whirling outside paler windows . 
The underlying churchyard was already settling into deep dim shade , and the shade was creeping up to the housetops among which they sat . 
'As if , said Eugene , 'as if the churchyard ghosts were rising . 
'I ask your pardons , Governors , replied the ghost , as before , 'but probable you was not aware your door stood open . 
'All right , Governors Both , returned the ghost , carefully closing the room door ''tickler business . 
Not to risk being done out of the sweat of my brow , by any chances , I should wish afore going further to be swore in . 
'I am not a swearer in of people , man . 
The visitor , clearly anything but reliant on this assurance , doggedly muttered 'Alfred David . 
'Is that your name ? asked Lightwood . 
'My name ? returned the man . 
'No I want to take a Alfred David . 
'I tell you , my good fellow , said Lightwood , with his indolent laugh , 'that I have nothing to do with swearing . 
'He can swear AT you , Eugene explained 'and so can I. But we can't do more for you . 
At length he decided 'Then I must be took down . 
'Here , said the man . 
'First , let us know what your business is about . 
'It's about , said the man , taking a step forward , dropping his hoarse voice , and shading it with his hand , 'it's about from five to ten thousand pound reward . 
Will you have a glass of wine ? 'Yes , I will , said the man 'and I don't deceive you , Governors . 
'Will you have another ? 'Yes , I will , he repeated , 'and I don't deceive you , Governors . 
And also repeated the other proceedings . 
'Now , began Lightwood , 'what's your name ? 'Why , there you're rather fast , Lawyer Lightwood , he replied , in a remonstrant manner . 
'Don't you see , Lawyer Lightwood ? There you're a little bit fast . 
Eugene , bringing them to the table , sat down as clerk or notary . 
'Now , said Lightwood , 'what's your name ? But further precaution was still due to the sweat of this honest fellow's brow . 
'I should wish , Lawyer Lightwood , he stipulated , 'to have that T'other Governor as my witness that what I said I said . 
Consequent , will the T'other Governor be so good as chuck me his name and where he lives ? Eugene , cigar in mouth and pen in hand , tossed him his card . 
After spelling it out slowly , the man made it into a little roll , and tied it up in an end of his neckerchief still more slowly . 
'Dwelling place ? 'Lime'us Hole . 
'Calling or occupation ? Not quite so glib with this answer as with the previous two , Mr Riderhood gave in the definition , 'Waterside character . 
'Anything against you ? Eugene quietly put in , as he wrote . 
Rather baulked , Mr Riderhood evasively remarked , with an innocent air , that he believed the T'other Governor had asked him summa't . 
'Ever in trouble ? said Eugene . 
'On suspicion of 'Of seaman's pocket , said Mr Riderhood . 
'Whereby I was in reality the man's best friend , and tried to take care of him . 
'With the sweat of your brow ? asked Eugene . 
'Till it poured down like rain , said Roger Riderhood . 
Eugene leaned back in his chair , and smoked with his eyes negligently turned on the informer , and his pen ready to reduce him to more writing . 
Lightwood also smoked , with his eyes negligently turned on the informer . 
'Now let me be took down again , said Riderhood , when he had turned the drowned cap over and under , and had brushed it the wrong way with his sleeve . 
'I give information that the man that done the Harmon Murder is Gaffer Hexam , the man that found the body . 
The hand of Jesse Hexam , commonly called Gaffer on the river and along shore , is the hand that done that deed . 
His hand and no other . 
The two friends glanced at one another with more serious faces than they had shown yet . 
'Tell us on what grounds you make this accusation , said Mortimer Lightwood . 
'On the grounds , answered Riderhood , wiping his face with his sleeve , 'that I was Gaffer's pardner , and suspected of him many a long day and many a dark night . 
On the grounds that I knowed his ways . 
On the grounds that it's well understood along the cause'ays and the stairs that he done it . 
On the grounds that he's fell off from , because he done it . 
On the grounds that I will swear he done it . 
On the grounds that you may take me where you will , and get me sworn to it . 
I don't want to back out of the consequences . 
I have made up MY mind . 
'All this is nothing , said Lightwood . 
'Nothing ? repeated Riderhood , indignantly and amazedly . 
It goes to no more than that you suspect this man of the crime . 
You may do so with some reason , or you may do so with no reason , but he cannot be convicted on your suspicion . 
'Not enough , ain't it , Lawyer Lightwood ? he cautiously demanded . 
'And did I say it WAS enough ? Now , I appeal to the T'other Governor . 
'Hah ! cried the informer , triumphantly perceiving that the remark was generally in his favour , though apparently not closely understanding it . 
'Fort'nate for me I had a witness ! 'Go on , then , said Lightwood . 
'Say out what you have to say . 
'Let me be took down then ! cried the informer , eagerly and anxiously . 
Is THAT enough ? 'Take care what you say , my friend , returned Mortimer . 
What's more , he told me with his own lips that he done the deed . 
What's more , he said that he done the deed . 
The Six Jolly Fellowships won't run away . 
If it turns out that he warn't at the Six Jolly Fellowships that night at midnight , I'm a liar . 
'What did he say ? 'I'll tell you . 
He come out first I come out last . 
I might be a minute arter him I might be half a minute , I might be a quarter of a minute I cannot swear to that , and therefore I won't . 
That's knowing the obligations of a Alfred David , ain't it ? 'Go on . 
'I found him a waiting to speak to me . 
''Scuse ME , Lawyer Lightwood , it's a part of the truth , and as such I do mind it , and I must mind it and I will mind it . 
Rogue Riderhood , he says , words passed betwixt us on the river tonight . 
I says to him , Gaffer , I know it . 
And , he says , when your fellow men is up , be it their lives or be it their watches , sharp is ever the word with you . 
Had you suspicions ? I says , Gaffer , I had and what's more , I have . 
He falls a shaking , and he says , Of what ? I says , Of foul play . 
He falls a shaking worse , and he says , There WAS foul play then . 
I done it for his money . 
Don't betray me ! Those were the words as ever he used . 
There was a silence , broken only by the fall of the ashes in the grate . 
An opportunity which the informer improved by smearing himself all over the head and neck and face with his drowned cap , and not at all improving his own appearance . 
'What more ? asked Lightwood . 
'Of him , d'ye mean , Lawyer Lightwood ? 'Of anything to the purpose . 
'Now , I'm blest if I understand you , Governors Both , said the informer , in a creeping manner propitiating both , though only one had spoken . 
I had cut the connexion . 
Mortimer glanced at Eugene , but Eugene sat glowering at his paper , and would give him no responsive glance . 
'Hah ! Mr Riderhood very slowly and hoarsely chimed in , with several retrospective nods of his head . 
'Hah ! Mr Riderhood chimed in , as before . 
'The T'other Governor hits the nail , Lawyer Lightwood ! It was that as turned me . 
I had many times and again struggled to relieve myself of the trouble on my mind , but I couldn't get it off . 
You have , said Mr Riderhood , in a firm tone . 
'Incidentally mentioning , at the same time , her age ? inquired Eugene . 
Two and twenty last October . 
And then I put it to myself , Regarding the money . 
It is a pot of money . 
For it IS a pot , said Mr Riderhood , with candour , 'and why deny it ? 'Hear ! from Eugene as he touched his drawing . 
'Certainly not , Governor , Mr Riderhood acquiesced . 
'So I made up my mind to get my trouble off my mind , and to earn by the sweat of my brow what was held out to me . 
And I give him up to you , and I want him took . 
'I suppose , said Eugene , 'there is no help for it . 
'Do you believe him ? 'I believe him to be a thorough rascal . 
But he may tell the truth , for his own purpose , and for this occasion only . 
'It doesn't look like it . 
'HE doesn't , said Eugene . 
'But neither is his late partner , whom he denounces , a prepossessing person . 
The firm are cut throat Shepherds both , in appearance . 
I should like to ask him one thing . 
The subject of this conference sat leering at the ashes , trying with all his might to overhear what was said , but feigning abstraction as the 'Governors Both' glanced at him . 
a daughter of this Hexam's , said Eugene , aloud . 
'And you implicate no other person ? 'It ain't what I implicate , it's what Gaffer implicated , was the dogged and determined answer . 
'I don't pretend to know more than that his words to me was , I done it . 
'I must see this out , Mortimer , whispered Eugene , rising . 
'How shall we go ? 'Let us walk , whispered Lightwood , 'and give this fellow time to think of it . 
Having exchanged the question and answer , they prepared themselves for going out , and Mr Riderhood rose . 
'Now , if you will take the lead , said Lightwood , 'Mr Wrayburn and I will follow . 
You know where to go , I suppose ? 'I suppose I do , Lawyer Lightwood . 
'Take the lead , then . 
'Look at his hang dog air , said Lightwood , following . 
'It strikes me rather as a hang MAN air , returned Eugene . 
'He has undeniable intentions that way . 
They said little else as they followed . 
He went on before them as an ugly Fate might have done , and they kept him in view , and would have been glad enough to lose sight of him . 
But on he went before them , always at the same distance , and the same rate . 
Aslant against the hard implacable weather and the rough wind , he was no more to be driven back than hurried forward , but held on like an advancing Destiny . 
There came , when they were about midway on their journey , a heavy rush of hail , which in a few minutes pelted the streets clear , and whitened them . 
It made no difference to him . 
A man's life being to be taken and the price of it got , the hailstones to arrest the purpose must lie larger and deeper than those . 
The blast went by , and the moon contended with the fast flying clouds , and the wild disorder reigning up there made the pitiful little tumults in the streets of no account . 
'If he has had time to think of it , said Eugene , he has not had time to think better of it or differently of it , if that's better . 
There is no sign of drawing back in him and as I recollect this place , we must be close upon the corner where we alighted that night . 
'Look round here , Lawyer Lightwood , at them red curtains . 
It's the Fellowships , the 'ouse as I told you wouldn't run away . 
With that , he crept away . 
'He'll come back , I suppose ? murmured Lightwood . 
'Ay ! and go through with it , murmured Eugene . 
He came back after a very short interval indeed . 
'Gaffer's out , and his boat's out . 
His daughter's at home , sitting a looking at the fire . 
But there's some supper getting ready , so Gaffer's expected . 
I can find what move he's upon , easy enough , presently . 
Also , within doors , Mr Inspector was at his studies as of yore . 
He recognized the friends the instant they reappeared , but their reappearance had no effect on his composure . 
'Have you heard these read ? he then demanded of the honest man . 
'Then you had better hear them . 
And so read them aloud , in an official manner . 
'Are these notes correct , now , as to the information you bring here and the evidence you mean to give ? he asked , when he had finished reading . 
They are as correct , returned Mr Riderhood , 'as I am . 
I can't say more than that for 'em . 
'I'll take this man myself , sir , said Mr Inspector to Lightwood . 
Then to Riderhood , 'Is he at home ? Where is he ? What's he doing ? You have made it your business to know all ahout him , no doubt . 
Riderhood said what he did know , and promised to find out in a few minutes what he didn't know . 
'Stop , said Mr Inspector 'not till I tell you We mustn't look like business . 
Would you two gentlemen object to making a pretence of taking a glass of something in my company at the Fellowships ? Well conducted house , and highly respectable landlady . 
They replied that they would be happy to substitute a reality for the pretence , which , in the main , appeared to be as one with Mr Inspector's meaning . 
'Very good , said he , taking his hat from its peg , and putting a pair of handcuffs in his pocket as if they were his gloves . 
'You know where to find me ? Reserve again saluted . 
'Riderhood , when you have found out concerning his coming home , come round to the window of Cosy , tap twice at it , and wait for me . 
That he himself had several times 'reckoned up' Gaffer , but had never been able to bring him to a satisfactory criminal total . 
That if this story was true , it was only in part true . 
'And I think , added Mr Inspector , in conclusion , 'that if all goes well with him , he's in a tolerable way of getting it . 
But as this is the Fellowships , gentlemen , where the lights are , I recommend dropping the subject . 
'You hear Eugene ? said Lightwood , over his shoulder . 
'You are deeply interested in lime . 
'Without lime , returned that unmoved barrister at law , 'my existence would be unilluminated by a ray of hope . 
preferred his figurative request that 'a mouthful of fire' might be lighted in Cosy . 
Always well disposed to assist the constituted authorities , Miss Abbey bade Bob Gliddery attend the gentlemen to that retreat , and promptly enliven it with fire and gaslight . 
'They burn sherry very well here , said Mr Inspector , as a piece of local intelligence . 
I don't say what it means or proves , but it's a certain fact . 
I had it first from one of the opposite sex of my acquaintance , vaguely indicating Miss Abbey with his thumb over his shoulder , 'down away at a distance , over yonder . 
Then probably Mr Inspector was not quite unprepared for their visit that evening ? Lightwood hinted . 
'Well you see , said Mr Inspector , 'it was a question of making a move . 
It's of no use moving if you don't know what your move is . 
You had better by far keep still . 
In the matter of this lime , I certainly had an idea that it might lie betwixt the two men I always had that idea . 
Still I was forced to wait for a start , and I wasn't so lucky as to get a start . 
This man that we have received our information from , has got a start , and if he don't meet with a check he may make the running and come in first . 
There may turn out to be something considerable for him that comes in second , and I don't mention who may or who may not try for that place . 
There's duty to do , and I shall do it , under any circumstances to the best of my judgment and ability . 
'Speaking as a shipper of lime began Eugene . 
'Which no man has a better right to do than yourself , you know , said Mr Inspector . 
being present , I think it might be a more agreeable proceeding to the assisting bystanders , that is to say , lime burners . 
'I also , said Lightwood , pushing his friend aside with a laugh , 'should much prefer that . 
'It shall be done , gentlemen , if it can be done conveniently , said Mr Inspector , with coolness . 
'There is no wish on my part to cause any distress in that quarter . 
Indeed , I am sorry for that quarter . 
'There was a boy in that quarter , remarked Eugene . 
'He is still there ? 'No , said Mr Inspector . 
He has quitted those works . 
He is otherwise disposed of . 
'Will she be left alone then ? asked Eugene . 
'She will be left , said Mr Inspector , 'alone . 
Bob's reappearance with a steaming jug broke off the conversation . 
and Bob withdrew to report the commendations of the guests to Miss Abbey in the bar . 
Only it had been regarded by Mr Inspector as so uncommonly satisfactory , and so fraught with mysterious virtues , that neither of his clients had presumed to question it . 
Two taps were now heard on the outside of the window . 
Mr Inspector , hastily fortifying himself with another glass , strolled out with a noiseless foot and an unoccupied countenance . 
As one might go to survey the weather and the general aspect of the heavenly bodies . 
'This is becoming grim , Mortimer , said Eugene , in a low voice . 
'Shall we go ? 'Being here , let us stay . 
You ought to see it out , and I won't leave you . 
Besides , that lonely girl with the dark hair runs in my head . 
It was little more than a glimpse we had of her that last time , and yet I almost see her waiting by the fire to night . 
Do you feel like a dark combination of traitor and pickpocket when you think of that girl ? 'Rather , returned Lightwood . 
'Do you ? 'Very much so . 
Their escort strolled back again , and reported . 
and that the reporter meant to share the watch . 
They were not inclined to dispute this recommendation , but they wanted to know where they could join the watchers when so disposed . 
would go out with Mr Inspector , note the spot , and come back . 
Under one of these latter , Eugene's companion disappeared . 
He could see the light of the fire shining through the window . 
Perhaps it drew him on to look in . 
Perhaps he had come out with the express intention . 
He came to the window by that means . 
She had no other light than the light of the fire . 
The unkindled lamp stood on the table . 
She sat on the ground , looking at the brazier , with her face leaning on her hand . 
A sad and solitary spectacle , as shown him by the rising and the falling of the fire . 
It was a little window of but four pieces of glass , and was not curtained he chose it because the larger window near it was . 
It showed him the room , and the bills upon the wall respecting the drowned people starting out and receding by turns . 
But he glanced slightly at them , though he looked long and steadily at her . 
'If the real man feels as guilty as I do , said Eugene , 'he is remarkably uncomfortable . 
'Influence of secrecy , suggested Lightwood . 
'I am not at all obliged to it for making me Guy Fawkes in the vault and a Sneak in the area both at once , said Eugene . 
'Give me some more of that stuff . 
Lightwood helped him to some more of that stuff , but it had been cooling , and didn't answer now . 
'Pooh , said Eugene , spitting it out among the ashes . 
'Tastes like the wash of the river . 
'Are you so familiar with the flavour of the wash of the river ? 'I seem to be to night . 
I feel as if I had been half drowned , and swallowing a gallon of it . 
'Influence of locality , suggested Lightwood . 
'You are mighty learned to night , you and your influences , returned Eugene . 
But I suppose we are best here until they turn us out with the other suspicious characters , at midnight . 
Thereupon he stirred the fire , and sat down on one side of it . 
It struck eleven , and he made believe to compose himself patiently . 
'Invisible insects of diabolical activity swarm in this place . 
I am tickled and twitched all over . 
Mentally , I have now committed a burglary under the meanest circumstances , and the myrmidons of justice are at my heels . 
'This restlessness began with me , long ago . 
All the time you were out , I felt like Gulliver with the Lilliputians firing upon him . 
'It won't do , Mortimer . 
We must get into the air we must join our dear friend and brother , Riderhood . 
And let us tranquillize ourselves by making a compact . 
we'll commit the crime , instead of taking the criminal . 
You swear it ? 'Certainly . 
'Sworn ! Let Tippins look to it . 
'I've a good sitiwation here , sir . 
'If you change your mind at any time , returned Eugene , 'come to me at my works , and you'll always find an opening in the lime kiln . 
'Thankee sir , said Bob . 
'This is my partner , said Eugene , 'who keeps the books and attends to the wages . 
A fair day's wages for a fair day's work is ever my partner's motto . 
Thoroughly used to him as he was , he found something new and strained in him that was for the moment perplexing . 
This passed into his mind , and passed out again but he remembered it afterwards . 
'There's where she sits , you see , said Eugene , when they were standing under the bank , roared and riven at by the wind . 
'There's the light of her fire . 
'I'll take a peep through the window , said Mortimer . 
'No , don't ! Eugene caught him by the arm . 
'Best , not make a show of her . 
Come to our honest friend . 
'Mr Inspector at home ? whispered Eugene . 
'Here I am , sir . 
'And our friend of the perspiring brow is at the far corner there ? Good . 
Anything happened ? 'His daughter has been out , thinking she heard him calling , unless it was a sign to him to keep out of the way . 
'It might have been Rule Britannia , muttered Eugene , 'but it wasn't . 
'Two burglaries now , and a forgery ! With this indication of his depressed state of mind , Eugene fell silent . 
They were all silent for a long while . 
As it got to be flood tide , and the water came nearer to them , noises on the river became more frequent , and they listened more . 
At this time of their watch , the water close to them would be often agitated by some impulsion given it from a distance . 
As the time so passed , this slinking business became a more and more precarious one . 
No one had passed in or out , since the daughter thought she heard the father calling . 
No one could pass in or out without being seen . 
'But it will be light at five , said Mr Inspector , 'and then WE shall be seen . 
'What do you make of that ? said Mr Inspector . 
'He may be doing so at this present time . 
'What do you make of that ? said Mr Inspector . 
'My boat's among them boats here at the cause'ay . 
'And what do you make of your boat ? said Mr Inspector . 
'What if I put off in her and take a look round ? I know his ways , and the likely nooks he favours . 
I know where he'd be at such a time of the tide , and where he'd be at such another time . 
Ain't I been his pardner ? None of you need show . 
None of you need stir . 
I can shove her off without help and as to me being seen , I'm about at all times . 
'You might have given a worse opinion , said Mr Inspector , after brief consideration . 
If I want you , I'll drop round under the Fellowships and tip you a whistle . 
'Was that the T'other Governor , or Lawyer Lightwood ? asked Riderhood . 
For , they spoke as they crouched or lay , without seeing one another's faces . 
that those accents were the accents of the T'other Governor . 
'You've tolerable good eyes , ain't you , Governor ? You've all tolerable good eyes , ain't you ? demanded the informer . 
'Then if I row up under the Fellowship and lay there , no need to whistle . 
You'll make out that there's a speck of something or another there , and you'll know it's me , and you'll come down that cause'ay to me . 
Understood all ? Understood all . 
Eugene had raised himself on his elbow to look into the darkness after him . 
'Three burglaries , two forgeries , and a midnight assassination . 
Yet in spite of having those weights on his conscience , Eugene was somewhat enlivened by the late slight change in the circumstances of affairs . 
So were his two companions . 
Its being a change was everything . 
The suspense seemed to have taken a new lease , and to have begun afresh from a recent date . 
There was something additional to look for . 
They were all three more sharply on the alert , and less deadened by the miserable influences of the place and time . 
They sprang up , came out from their shelter , and went down to him . 
'Blest if I can make it out ! said he , staring at them . 
'Make what out ? Have you seen him ? 'No . 
'What HAVE you seen ? asked Lightwood . 
For , he was staring at them in the strangest way . 
'Not empty ? 'Yes , empty . 
And what's more , adrift . 
And what's more , with one scull gone . 
And what's more , with t'other scull jammed in the thowels and broke short off . 
And what's more , the boat's drove tight by the tide 'atwixt two tiers of barges . 
'Gaffer's boat , Gaffer in luck again , and yet no Gaffer ! So spake Riderhood , staring disconsolate . 
As if with one accord , they all turned their eyes towards the light of the fire shining through the window . 
It was fainter and duller . 
With something so suddenly fierce in him that the informer returned submissively 'Well , well , well , t'other governor , I didn't say it was . 
'And vermin may be silent , said Eugene . 
'Hold your tongue , you water rat ! Astonished by his friend's unusual heat , Lightwood stared too , and then said 'What can have become of this man ? 'Can't imagine . 
The informer wiped his brow ruefully as he said it , sitting in his boat and always staring disconsolate . 
'Did you make his boat fast ? 'She's fast enough till the tide runs back . 
I couldn't make her faster than she is . 
Come aboard of mine , and see for your own selves . 
While they were doing so , Riderhood still sat staring disconsolate . 
Give way ! said Lightwood . 
'Give way , by George ! repeated Riderhood , before shoving off . 
'If he's gone and made off any how Lawyer Lightwood , it's enough to make me give way in a different manner . 
But he always WAS a cheat , con found him ! He always was a infernal cheat , was Gaffer . 
Nothing straightfor'ard , nothing on the square . 
So mean , so underhanded . 
Steady , steady ! Sit close , Mortimer . 
They were all shivering , and everything about them seemed to be shivering the river itself craft , rigging , sails , such early smoke as there yet was on the shore . 
Not a figure head but had the menacing look of bursting forward to run them down . 
And driven into that nook , and wedged as he had described , was Gaffer's boat that boat with the stain still in it , bearing some resemblance to a muffled human form . 
'Now tell me I'm a liar ! said the honest man . 
'This is Hexam's boat , said Mr Inspector . 
'Look at the broken scull . 
Look at the t'other scull gone . 
NOW tell me I am a liar ! said the honest man . 
Mr Inspector stepped into the boat . 
Eugene and Mortimer looked on . 
'And see now ! added Riderhood , creeping aft , and showing a stretched rope made fast there and towing overboard . 
'Didn't I tell you he was in luck again ? 'Haul in , said Mr Inspector . 
'Easy to say haul in , answered Riderhood . 
His luck's got fouled under the keels of the barges . 
I tried to haul in last time , but I couldn't . 
See how taut the line is ! 'I must have it up , said Mr Inspector . 
'I am going to take this boat ashore , and his luck along with it . 
He tried easy now but the luck resisted wouldn't come . 
'I mean to have it , and the boat too , said Mr Inspector , playing the line . 
But still the luck resisted wouldn't come . 
'Take care , said Riderhood . 
'I am not going to do either , not even to your Grandmother , said Mr Inspector 'but I mean to have it . 
I mean to have you . 
There was so much virtue in this distinctly and decidedly meaning to have it , that it yielded a little , even while the line was played . 
'I told you so , quoth Mr Inspector , pulling off his outer coat , and leaning well over the stern with a will . 
Go ahead you , and keep out in pretty open water , that I mayn't get fouled again . 
His directions were obeyed , and they pulled ashore directly two in one boat , two in the other . 
Undo the tow rope , and we'll help you haul in . 
Riderhood got into the boat accordingly . 
He pointed behind him at the boat , and gasped to that degree that he dropped upon the stones to get his breath . 
It's Gaffer ! They ran to the rope , leaving him gasping there . 
A lull , and the wind is secret and prying with him lifts and lets falls a rag hides palpitating under another rag runs nimbly through his hair and beard . 
Then , in a rush , it cruelly taunts him . 
Did you never see such a shape soaked into your boat ? Speak , Father . 
Of course you gentlemen hardly failed to observe that he was towing by the neck and arms . 
They had helped to release the rope , and of course not . 
'Likewise you will have observed how he had run the other end of this rope to his boat . 
It had the curves and indentations in it still , where it had been twined and bound . 
'Now see , said Mr Inspector , 'see how it works round upon him . 
He carries with him this coil of rope . 
He always carries with him this coil of rope . 
It's as well known to me as he was himself . 
Sometimes it lay in the bottom of his boat . 
Sometimes he hung it loose round his neck . 
Last evening he does this . 
Worse for him ! He dodges about in his boat , does this man , till he gets chilled . 
His hands , taking up one of them , which dropped like a leaden weight , 'get numbed . 
He sees some object that's in his way of business , floating . 
He makes ready to secure that object . 
He unwinds the end of his coil that he wants to take some turns on in his boat , and he takes turns enough on it to secure that it shan't run out . 
He makes it too secure , as it happens . 
He is a little longer about this than usual , his hands being numbed . 
His object drifts up , before he is quite ready for it . 
Now see ! He can swim , can this man , and instantly he strikes out . 
But in such striking out he tangles his arms , pulls strong on the slip knot , and it runs home . 
The object he had expected to take in tow , floats by , and his own boat tows him dead , to where we found him , all entangled in his own line . 
You'll ask me how I make out about the pockets ? First , I'll tell you more there was silver in 'em . 
How do I make that out ? Simple and satisfactory . 
Because he's got it here . 
The lecturer held up the tightly clenched right hand . 
'What is to be done with the remains ? asked Lightwood . 
'Eugene , said Lightwood and was about to add 'we may wait at a little distance , when turning his head he found that no Eugene was there . 
He raised his voice and called 'Eugene ! Holloa ! But no Eugene replied . 
It was broad daylight now , and he looked about . 
But no Eugene was in all the view . 
'Singular and entertaining combination , sir , your friend . 
'I wish it had not been a part of his singular entertaining combination to give me the slip under these dreary circumstances at this time of the morning , said Lightwood . 
'Can we get anything hot to drink ? We could , and we did . 
In a public house kitchen with a large fire . 
We got hot brandy and water , and it revived us wonderfully . 
For , he felt , with some natural indignation , that that functionary might otherwise suspect him of having closed his eyes , or wandered in his attention . 
'Here just before us , you see , said Mr Inspector . 
'I see , said Lightwood , with dignity . 
'And had hot brandy and water too , you see , said Mr Inspector , 'and then cut off at a great rate . 
'Your friend , you know . 
'I know , he replied , again with dignity . 
In short , the night's work had so exhausted and worn out this actor in it , that he had become a mere somnambulist . 
He was too tired to rest in his sleep , until he was even tired out of being too tired , and dropped into oblivion . 
Late in the afternoon he awoke , and in some anxiety sent round to Eugene's lodging hard by , to inquire if he were up yet ? Oh yes , he was up . 
In fact , he had not been to bed . 
He had just come home . 
And here he was , close following on the heels of the message . 
'Why what bloodshot , draggled , dishevelled spectacle is this ! cried Mortimer . 
'Are my feathers so very much rumpled ? said Eugene , coolly going up to the looking glass . 
They ARE rather out of sorts . 
Such a night for plumage ! 'Such a night ? repeated Mortimer . 
I also felt that I had committed every crime in the Newgate Calendar . 
So , for mingled considerations of friendship and felony , I took a walk . 
Chapter TWO NEW SERVANTS Mr and Mrs Boffin sat after breakfast , in the Bower , a prey to prosperity . 
Mr Boffin's face denoted Care and Complication . 
It is curious to consider , in such a case as Mr Boffin's , what a cheap article ink is , and how far it may be made to go . 
'Who's that , I wonder ! said Mrs Boffin . 
'Oh ! said Mr Boffin . 
'Oh indeed ! Our and the Wilfers' Mutual Friend , my dear . 
Ask him to come in . 
'Sit down , sir , said Mr Boffin , shaking hands with him . 
'Mrs Boffin you're already acquainted with . 
'That's apology for both of us for Mr Boffin , and for me as well , said the smiling Mrs Boffin . 
'But Lor ! we can talk it over now can't us ? Mr Rokesmith bowed , thanked her , and said he hoped so . 
'Let me see then , resumed Mr Boffin , with his hand to his chin . 
'It was Secretary that you named wasn't it ? 'I said Secretary , assented Mr Rokesmith . 
we have always believed a Secretary to be a piece of furniture , mostly of mahogany , lined with green baize or leather , with a lot of little drawers in it . 
Now , you won't think I take a liberty when I mention that you certainly ain't THAT . 
Certainly not , said Mr Rokesmith . 
But he had used the word in the sense of Steward . 
Being both bad sailors , we should want a Steward if we did but there's generally one provided . 
Mr Rokesmith again explained defining the duties he sought to undertake , as those of general superintendent , or manager , or overlooker , or man of business . 
'Now , for instance come ! said Mr Boffin , in his pouncing way . 
'If you entered my employment , what would you do ? 'I would keep exact accounts of all the expenditure you sanctioned , Mr Boffin . 
I would write your letters , under your direction . 
I would transact your business with people in your pay or employment . 
I would , with a glance and a half smile at the table , 'arrange your papers Mr Boffin rubbed his inky ear , and looked at his wife . 
And so arrange them as to have them always in order for immediate reference , with a note of the contents of each outside it . 
No sooner said than done . 
'Good ! said Mr Boffin . 
'Very good ! Now let us hear what they're all about will you be so good ? John Rokesmith read his abstracts aloud . 
They were all about the new house . 
Decorator's estimate , so much . 
Furniture estimate , so much . 
Estimate for furniture of offices , so much . 
Coach maker's estimate , so much . 
Horse dealer's estimate , so much . 
Harness maker's estimate , so much . 
Goldsmith's estimate , so much . 
Total , so very much . 
Acceptance of Mr Boffin's offer of such a date , and to such an effect . 
Rejection of Mr Boffin's proposal of such a date and to such an effect . 
Concerning Mr Boffin's scheme of such another date to such another effect . 
'Apple pie order ! said Mr Boffin , after checking off each inscription with his hand , like a man beating time . 
'And whatever you do with your ink , I can't think , for you're as clean as a whistle after it . 
Now , as to a letter . 
Let's , said Mr Boffin , rubbing his hands in his pleasantly childish admiration , 'let's try a letter next . 
'To whom shall it be addressed , Mr Boffin ? 'Anyone . 
Mr Boffin takes Mr John Rokesmith at his word , in postponing to some indefinite period , the consideration of salary . 
It is quite understood that Mr Boffin is in no way committed on that point . 
Mr Boffin has merely to add , that he relies on Mr John Rokesmith's assurance that he will be faithful and serviceable . 
Mr John Rokesmith will please enter on his duties immediately . 
Well ! Mrs Boffin has carried the day , and we're going in neck and crop for Fashion . 
'I rather inferred that , sir , replied John Rokesmith , 'from the scale on which your new establishment is to be maintained . 
'Yes , said Mr Boffin , 'it's to be a Spanker . 
'Why no , said Mr Boffin , 'not exactly that a sort of a family tie . 
'Association ? the Secretary suggested . 
'Ah ! said Mr Boffin . 
Anyhow , he named to me that the house had a board up , This Eminently Aristocratic Mansion to be let or sold . 
'That's it ! And it was made neater by there really being two halls in the house , a front 'un and a back 'un , besides the servants' . 
Mrs Boffin has a wonderful memory . 
Will you repeat it , my dear ? Mrs Boffin complied , by reciting the verses in which this obliging offer had been made , exactly as she had received them . 
should make you sigh , I'll strike the light guitar . 
'Correct to the letter ! said Mr Boffin . 
'And I consider that the poetry brings us both in , in a beautiful manner . 
The effect of the poem on the Secretary being evidently to astonish him , Mr Boffin was confirmed in his high opinion of it , and was greatly pleased . 
'Now , you see , Rokesmith , he went on , 'a literary man WITH a wooden leg is liable to jealousy . 
I shall therefore cast about for comfortable ways and means of not calling up Wegg's jealousy , but of keeping you in your department , and keeping him in his . 
'Lor ! cried Mrs Boffin . 
'What I say is , the world's wide enough for all of us ! 'So it is , my dear , said Mr Boffin , 'when not literary . 
But when so , not so . 
And I am bound to bear in mind that I took Wegg on , at a time when I had no thought of being fashionable or of leaving the Bower . 
To let him feel himself anyways slighted now , would be to be guilty of a meanness , and to act like having one's head turned by the halls of dazzling light . 
Which Lord forbid ! Rokesmith , what shall we say about your living in the house ? 'In this house ? 'No , no . 
I have got other plans for this house . 
In the new house ? 'That will be as you please , Mr Boffin . 
I hold myself quite at your disposal . 
You know where I live at present . 
'Well ! said Mr Boffin , after considering the point 'suppose you keep as you are for the present , and we'll decide by and by . 
You'll begin to take charge at once , of all that's going on in the new house , will you ? 'Most willingly . 
I will begin this very day . 
Will you give me the address ? Mr Boffin repeated it , and the Secretary wrote it down in his pocket book . 
Mrs Boffin took the opportunity of his being so engaged , to get a better observation of his face than she had yet taken . 
It impressed her in his favour , for she nodded aside to Mr Boffin , 'I like him . 
'I will see directly that everything is in train , Mr Boffin . 
Being here , would you care at all to look round the Bower ? 'I should greatly like it . 
I have heard so much of its story . 
'Come ! said Mr Boffin . 
And he and Mrs Boffin led the way . 
A gloomy house the Bower , with sordid signs on it of having been , through its long existence as Harmony Jail , in miserly holding . 
Bare of paint , bare of paper on the walls , bare of furniture , bare of experience of human life . 
Whatever is built by man for man's occupation , must , like natural creations , fulfil the intention of its existence , or soon perish . 
This old house had wasted more from desuetude than it would have wasted from use , twenty years for one . 
, which was very noticeable here . 
The bedroom where the clutching old man had lost his grip on life , was left as he had left it . 
There was the old grisly four post bedstead , without hangings , and with a jail like upper rim of iron and spikes and there was the old patch work counterpane . 
A hard family likeness was on all these things . 
'The room was kept like this , Rokesmith , said Mr Boffin , 'against the son's return . 
In short , everything in the house was kept exactly as it came to us , for him to see and approve . 
Even now , nothing is changed but our own room below stairs that you have just left . 
As the Secretary looked all round it , his eyes rested on a side door in a corner . 
'Another staircase , said Mr Boffin , unlocking the door , 'leading down into the yard . 
We'll go down this way , as you may like to see the yard , and it's all in the road . 
When the son was a little child , it was up and down these stairs that he mostly came and went to his father . 
He was very timid of his father . 
I've seen him sit on these stairs , in his shy way , poor child , many a time . 
Mr and Mrs Boffin have comforted him , sitting with his little book on these stairs , often . 
'Ah ! And his poor sister too , said Mrs Boffin . 
'And here's the sunny place on the white wall where they one day measured one another . 
Their own little hands wrote up their names here , only with a pencil but the names are here still , and the poor dears gone for ever . 
'We must take care of the names , old lady , said Mr Boffin . 
'We must take care of the names . 
They shan't be rubbed out in our time , nor yet , if we can help it , in the time after us . 
Poor little children ! 'Ah , poor little children ! said Mrs Boffin . 
There was something in this simple memento of a blighted childhood , and in the tenderness of Mrs Boffin , that touched the Secretary . 
'It would have been enough for us , said Mr Boffin , 'in case it had pleased God to spare the last of those two young lives and sorrowful deaths . 
We didn't want the rest . 
It was not until Mr Boffin had shown him every wonder of the Bower twice over , that he remembered his having duties to discharge elsewhere . 
'You have no instructions to give me , Mr Boffin , in reference to this place ? 'Not any , Rokesmith . 
No. 'Might I ask , without seeming impertinent , whether you have any intention of selling it ? 'Certainly not . 
In remembrance of our old master , our old master's children , and our old service , me and Mrs Boffin mean to keep it up as it stands . 
The Secretary's eyes glanced with so much meaning in them at the Mounds , that Mr Boffin said , as if in answer to a remark 'Ay , ay , that's another thing . 
I may sell THEM , though I should be sorry to see the neighbourhood deprived of 'em too . 
It'll look but a poor dead flat without the Mounds . 
Still I don't say that I'm going to keep 'em always there , for the sake of the beauty of the landscape . 
There's no hurry about it that's all I say at present . 
I ain't a scholar in much , Rokesmith , but I'm a pretty fair scholar in dust . 
I can price the Mounds to a fraction , and I know how they can be best disposed of and likewise that they take no harm by standing where they do . 
You'll look in to morrow , will you be so kind ? 'Every day . 
Ain't that your opinion ? 'Quite ! replied the Secretary and so withdrew . 
'Now , said Mr Boffin to himself subsiding into his regular series of turns in the yard , 'if I can make it comfortable with Wegg , my affairs will be going smooth . 
The man of low cunning had , of course , acquired a mastery over the man of high simplicity . 
The mean man had , of course , got the better of the generous man . 
How long such conquests last , is another matter that they are achieved , is every day experience , not even to be flourished away by Podsnappery itself . 
The undesigning Boffin had become so far immeshed by the wily Wegg that his mind misgave him he was a very designing man indeed in purposing to do more for Wegg . 
that he was plotting darkly , when he was contriving to do the very thing that Wegg was plotting to get him to do . 
For these reasons Mr Boffin passed but anxious hours until evening came , and with it Mr Wegg , stumping leisurely to the Roman Empire . 
'When you first told me that you wanted to make a sort of offer to me ? Now let me think . 
'Yes , to be sure I do , Mr Boffin . 
It was at my corner . 
To be sure it was ! You had first asked me whether I liked your name , and Candour had compelled a reply in the negative case . 
I little thought then , sir , how familiar that name would come to be ! 'I hope it will be more familiar still , Wegg . 
'Do you , Mr Boffin ? Much obliged to you , I'm sure . 
Is it your pleasure , sir , that we decline and we fall ? with a feint of taking up the book . 
'Not just yet awhile , Wegg . 
In fact , I have got another offer to make you . 
took off his spectacles with an air of bland surprise . 
'And I hope you'll like it , Wegg . 
'Thank you , sir , returned that reticent individual . 
'I hope it may prove so . 
On all accounts , I am sure . 
Mr Wegg was going to say , My Benefactor , and had said My Bene , when a grandiloquent change came over him . 
'No , Mr Boffin , not you sir . 
Do not fear , Mr Boffin , that I shall contaminate the premises which your gold has bought , with MY lowly pursuits . 
I am aware , sir , that it would not become me to carry on my little traffic under the windows of your mansion . 
I have already thought of that , and taken my measures . 
No need to be bought out , sir . 
Would Stepney Fields be considered intrusive ? If not remote enough , I can go remoter . 
'I know I am , sir , returned Wegg , with obstinate magnanimity . 
'I am acquainted with my faults . 
I always was , from a child , too sensitive . 
'But listen , pursued the Golden Dustman 'hear me out , Wegg . 
You have taken it into your head that I mean to pension you off . 
'True , sir , returned Wegg , still with an obstinate magnanimity . 
'I am acquainted with my faults . 
Far be it from me to deny them . 
I HAVE taken it into my head . 
'But I DON'T mean it . 
The assurance seemed hardly as comforting to Mr Wegg , as Mr Boffin intended it to be . 
But you are you are . 
'That , sir , replied Mr Wegg , cheering up bravely , 'is quite another pair of shoes . 
Now , my independence as a man is again elevated . 
Please to proceed , Mr Boffin . 
'Thank'ee , Wegg , both for your confidence in me and for your frequent dropping into poetry both of which is friendly . 
Well , then my idea is , that you should give up your stall , and that I should put you into the Bower here , to keep it for us . 
It's a pleasant spot and a man with coals and candles and a pound a week might be in clover here . 
'I suppose it would , sir . 
You are right , sir . 
Exactly my own views , Mr Boffin . 
Here Wegg rose , and balancing himself on his wooden leg , fluttered over his prey with extended hand . 
'Mr Boffin , consider it done . 
Say no more , sir , not a word more . 
My stall and I are for ever parted . 
Mr Boffin , don't allow yourself to be made uncomfortable by the pang it gives me to part from my stock and stall . 
Similar emotion was undergone by my own father when promoted for his merits from his occupation as a waterman to a situation under Government . 
His Christian name was Thomas . 
Which , indeed , had been left over night in a very unpromising posture , and for whose impending expedition against the Persians the weather had been by no means favourable all day . 
Mr Wegg resumed his spectacles therefore . 
Mr Boffin hurried out , and found her on the dark staircase , panting , with a lighted candle in her hand . 
'What's the matter , my dear ? 'I don't know I don't know but I wish you'd come up stairs . 
Mr Boffin looked all round him , and saw nothing more unusual than various articles of folded linen on a large chest , which Mrs Boffin had been sorting . 
'My dear ? exclaimed Mr Boffin . 
But not without a certain uncomfortable sensation gliding down his back . 
'I know it must sound foolish , and yet it is so . 
'Where did you think you saw them ? 'I don't know that I think I saw them anywhere . 
Felt them in the air . 
'What face ? asked her husband , looking about him . 
'For a moment it was the old man's , and then it got younger . 
For a moment it was both the children's , and then it got older . 
For a moment it was a strange face , and then it was all the faces . 
'And then it was gone ? 'Yes and then it was gone . 
'Where were you then , old lady ? 'Here , at the chest . 
Well I got the better of it , and went on sorting , and went on singing to myself . 
Lor ! I says , I'll think of something else something comfortable and put it out of my head . 
As it still lay on the floor where it had fallen , Mr Boffin picked it up and laid it on the chest . 
'And then you ran down stairs ? 'No . 
I thought I'd try another room , and shake it off . 
I says to myself , I'll go and walk slowly up and down the old man's room three times , from end to end , and then I shall have conquered it . 
I went in with the candle in my hand but the moment I came near the bed , the air got thick with them . 
'With the faces ? 'Yes , and I even felt that they were in the dark behind the side door , and on the little staircase , floating away into the yard . 
Then , I called you . 
Mr Boffin , lost in amazement , looked at Mrs Boffin . 
Mrs Boffin , lost in her own fluttered inability to make this out , looked at Mr Boffin . 
Don't we ? 'I never had the feeling in the house before , said Mrs Boffin 'and I have been about it alone at all hours of the night . 
'And won't again , my dear , said Mr Boffin . 
'Depend upon it , it comes of thinking and dwelling on that dark spot . 
'Yes but why didn't it come before ? asked Mrs Boffin . 
This draft on Mr Boffin's philosophy could only be met by that gentleman with the remark that everything that is at all , must begin at some time . 
Then , tucking his wife's arm under his own , that she might not be left by herself to be troubled again , he descended to release Wegg . 
Not resting satisfied with giving that much chace to Mrs Boffin's fancies , they pursued them into the yard and outbuildings , and under the Mounds . 
There , my dear ! said Mr Boffin when they came in to supper . 
'That was the treatment , you see . 
Completely worked round , haven't you ? 'Yes , deary , said Mrs Boffin , laying aside her shawl . 
'I'm not nervous any more . 
I'm not a bit troubled now . 
I'd go anywhere about the house the same as ever . 
But 'Eh ! said Mr Boffin . 
'But I've only to shut my eyes . 
The two children's faces , and they get older . 
A face that I don't know . 
Chapter MINDERS AND RE MINDERS The Secretary lost no time in getting to work , and his vigilance and method soon set their mark on the Golden Dustman's affairs . 
His earnestness in determining to understand the length and breadth and depth of every piece of work submitted to him by his employer , was as special as his despatch in transacting it . 
He accepted no information or explanation at second hand , but made himself the master of everything confided to him . 
One part of the Secretary's conduct , underlying all the rest , might have been mistrusted by a man with a better knowledge of men than the Golden Dustman had . 
The Secretary was as far from being inquisitive or intrusive as Secretary could be , but nothing less than a complete understanding of the whole of the affairs would content him . 
that he must have been to the office where the Harmon will was registered , and must have read the will . 
He anticipated Mr Boffin's consideration whether he should be advised with on this or that topic , by showing that he already knew of it and understood it . 
He did this with no attempt at concealment , seeming to be satisfied that it was part of his duty to have prepared himself at all attainable points for its utmost discharge . 
This might let it be repeated have awakened some little vague mistrust in a man more worldly wise than the Golden Dustman . 
On the other hand , the Secretary was discerning , discreet , and silent , though as zealous as if the affairs had been his own . 
He showed no love of patronage or the command of money , but distinctly preferred resigning both to Mr Boffin . 
If , in his limited sphere , he sought power , it was the power of knowledge the power derivable from a perfect comprehension of his business . 
As on the Secretary's face there was a nameless cloud , so on his manner there was a shadow equally indefinable . 
It was not that he was embarrassed , as on that first night with the Wilfer family he was habitually unembarrassed now , and yet the something remained . 
It was not that his manner was bad , as on that occasion it was now very good , as being modest , gracious , and ready . 
Yet the something never left it . 
Was there any such record here ? He established a temporary office for himself in the new house , and all went well under his hand , with one singular exception . 
He manifestly objected to communicate with Mr Boffin's solicitor . 
'It is so , the Secretary admitted . 
Had he any personal objection to Mr Lightwood ? 'I don't know him . 
Had he suffered from law suits ? 'Not more than other men , was his short answer . 
Was he prejudiced against the race of lawyers ? 'No . 
But while I am in your employment , sir , I would rather he excused from going between the lawyer and the client . 
Of course if you press it , Mr Boffin , I am ready to comply . 
But I should take it as a great favour if you would not press it without urgent occasion . 
This the Golden Dustman quite understood . 
Consequently , that new light had gone sputtering out . 
And all traces of Mr Julius Handford being lost , Lightwood now referred to his client for authority to seek him through public advertisement . 
'Does your objection go to writing to Lightwood , Rokesmith ? 'Not in the least , sir . 
'Then perhaps you'll write him a line , and say he is free to do what he likes . 
I don't think it promises . 
'I don't think it promises , said the Secretary . 
'Still , he may do what he likes . 
Let me thank you for so considerately yielding to my disinclination . 
It may seem less unreasonable , if I avow to you that although I don't know Mr Lightwood , I have a disagreeable association connected with him . 
It is not his fault he is not at all to blame for it , and does not even know my name . 
Mr Boffin dismissed the matter with a nod or two . 
The letter was written , and next day Mr Julius Handford was advertised for . 
Mr and Mrs Milvey had found their search a difficult one . 
For , the instant it became known that anybody wanted the orphan , up started some affectionate relative of the orphan who put a price upon the orphan's head . 
The suddenness of an orphan's rise in the market was not to be paralleled by the maddest records of the Stock Exchange . 
would go up to five thousand per cent premium before noon . 
The market was 'rigged' in various artful ways . 
Counterfeit stock got into circulation . 
Parents boldly represented themselves as dead , and brought their orphans with them . 
Genuine orphan stock was surreptitiously withdrawn from the market . 
Likewise , fluctuations of a wild and South Sea nature were occasioned , by orphan holders keeping back , and then rushing into the market a dozen together . 
But , the uniform principle at the root of all these various operations was bargain and sale and that principle could not be recognized by Mr and Mrs Milvey . 
At length , tidings were received by the Reverend Frank of a charming orphan to be found at Brentford . 
had a poor widowed grandmother in that agreeable town , and she , Mrs Betty Higden , had carried off the orphan with maternal care , but could not afford to keep him . 
Mrs Boffin preferring the latter course , they set off one morning in a hired phaeton , conveying the hammer headed young man behind them . 
In this young sportsman , distinguished by a crisply curling auburn head and a bluff countenance , the Secretary descried the orphan . 
It unfortunately happened as they quickened their pace , that the orphan , lost to considerations of personal safety in the ardour of the moment , overbalanced himself and toppled into the street . 
Being an orphan of a chubby conformation , he then took to rolling , and had rolled into the gutter before they could come up . 
But as he gradually recovered , Mrs Boffin gradually introduced herself and smiling peace was gradually wooed back to Mrs Betty Higden's home . 
The room was clean and neat . 
'Yes sure ! said she , when the business was opened , 'Mrs Milvey had the kindness to write to me , ma'am , and I got Sloppy to read it . 
It was a pretty letter . 
But she's an affable lady . 
The visitors glanced at the long boy , who seemed to indicate by a broader stare of his mouth and eyes that in him Sloppy stood confessed . 
'For I aint , you must know , said Betty , 'much of a hand at reading writing hand , though I can read my Bible and most print . 
And I do love a newspaper . 
You mightn't think it , but Sloppy is a beautiful reader of a newspaper . 
He do the Police in different voices . 
At this the two innocents , with their brains in that apparent danger , laughed , and Mrs Higden laughed , and the orphan laughed , and then the visitors laughed . 
Which was more cheerful than intelligible . 
'The gentlefolks can't hear themselves speak , Sloppy . 
Bide a bit , bide a bit ! 'Is that the dear child in your lap ? said Mrs Boffin . 
'Yes , ma'am , this is Johnny . 
'Johnny , too ! cried Mrs Boffin , turning to the Secretary 'already Johnny ! Only one of the two names left to give him ! He's a pretty boy . 
'Yes , ma'am , he's a pretty boy , he's a dear darling boy , he's the child of my own last left daughter's daughter . 
But she's gone the way of all the rest . 
'Those are not his brother and sister ? said Mrs Boffin . 
'Oh , dear no , ma'am . 
'Minders ? the Secretary repeated . 
'Left to he Minded , sir . 
I keep a Minding School . 
I can take only three , on account of the Mangle . 
But I love children , and Four pence a week is Four pence . 
Come here , Toddles and Poddles . 
Toddles was the pet name of the boy Poddles of the girl . 
All the three children enjoyed this to a delightful extent , and the sympathetic Sloppy again laughed long and loud . 
'And Master or Mister Sloppy ? said the Secretary , in doubt whether he was man , boy , or what . 
'A love child , returned Betty Higden , dropping her voice 'parents never known found in the street . 
He was brought up in the with a shiver of repugnance , the House . 
'The Poor house ? said the Secretary . 
Mrs Higden set that resolute old face of hers , and darkly nodded yes . 
'You dislike the mention of it . 
'Dislike the mention of it ? answered the old woman . 
'Kill me sooner than take me there . 
Throw this pretty child under cart horses feet and a loaded waggon , sooner than take him there . 
She never begged nor had a penny of the Union money in all her life . 
She paid scot and she paid lot when she had money to pay she worked when she could , and she starved when she must . 
'And does he work for you ? asked the Secretary , gently bringing the discourse back to Master or Mister Sloppy . 
'Yes , said Betty with a good humoured smile and nod of the head . 
'Does he live here ? 'He lives more here than anywhere . 
He was thought to be no better than a Natural , and first come to me as a Minder . 
I made interest with Mr Blogg the Beadle to have him as a Minder , seeing him by chance up at church , and thinking I might do something with him . 
For he was a weak ricketty creetur then . 
'Is he called by his right name ? 'Why , you see , speaking quite correctly , he has no right name . 
I always understood he took his name from being found on a Sloppy night . 
'He seems an amiable fellow . 
'Bless you , sir , there's not a bit of him , returned Betty , 'that's not amiable . 
So you may judge how amiable he is , by running your eye along his heighth . 
Of an ungainly make was Sloppy . 
Too much of him longwise , too little of him broadwise , and too many sharp angles of him angle wise . 
One of those shambling male human creatures , born to be indiscreetly candid in the revelation of buttons every button he had about him glaring at the public to a quite preternatural extent . 
Full Private Number One in the Awkward Squad of the rank and file of life , was Sloppy , and yet had his glimmering notions of standing true to the Colours . 
'And now , said Mrs Boffin , 'concerning Johnny . 
Still lightly beating the little hand upon her own . 
'I wouldn't stand in the dear child's light , not if I had all my life before me instead of a very little of it . 
But I hope you won't take it ill that I cleave to the child closer than words can tell , for he's the last living thing left me . 
And they are all gone but this one ! I am ashamed to seem so selfish , but I don't really mean it . 
It'll be the making of his fortune , and he'll be a gentleman when I am dead . 
I I don't know what comes over me . 
Don't notice me ! The light beat stopped , the resolute mouth gave way , and the fine strong old face broke up into weakness and tears . 
The absurdity of the situation put its pathos to the rout . 
'There , there , there ! said Mrs Boffin , almost regarding her kind self as the most ruthless of women . 
'Nothing is going to be done . 
We're all comfortable ain't we , Mrs Higden ? 'Sure and certain we are , returned Betty . 
'And there really is no hurry , you know , said Mrs Boffin in a lower voice . 
'Take time to think of it , my good creature ! 'Don't you fear ME no more , ma'am , said Betty 'I thought of it for good yesterday . 
I don't know what come over me just now , but it'll never come again . 
'Well , then , Johnny shall have more time to think of it , returned Mrs Boffin 'the pretty child shall have time to get used to it . 
And you'll get him more used to it , if you think well of it won't you ? Betty undertook that , cheerfully and readily . 
'And this gentleman who has come with me will pay him for his trouble , said Mrs Boffin . 
'And Mr Sloppy , whenever you come to my house , be sure you never go away without having had a good dinner of meat , beer , vegetables , and pudding . 
'You must tell me what I can do for you , Betty my friend , said Mrs Boffin confidentially , 'if not to day , next time . 
'Thank you all the same , ma'am , but I want nothing for myself . 
I can walk twenty mile if I'm put to it . 
Old Betty was proud , and said it with a sparkle in her bright eyes . 
'Yes , but there are some little comforts that you wouldn't be the worse for , returned Mrs Boffin . 
'Bless ye , I wasn't born a lady any more than you . 
'It seems to me , said Betty , smiling , 'that you were born a lady , and a true one , or there never was a lady born . 
But I couldn't take anything from you , my dear . 
I never did take anything from any one . 
It ain't that I'm not grateful , but I love to earn it better . 
'Well , well ! returned Mrs Boffin . 
'I only spoke of little things , or I wouldn't have taken the liberty . 
Betty put her visitor's hand to her lips , in acknowledgment of the delicate answer . 
Wonderfully upright her figure was , and wonderfully self reliant her look , as , standing facing her visitor , she explained herself further . 
I couldn't sell that love , and look you in your bright kind face . 
I am in want of nothing . 
When my strength fails me , if I can but die out quick and quiet , I shall be quite content . 
I have stood between my dead and that shame I have spoken of and it has been kept off from every one of them . 
Sewed into my gown , with her hand upon her breast , 'is just enough to lay me in the grave . 
Mrs Betty Higden's visitor pressed her hand . 
There was no more breaking up of the strong old face into weakness . 
My Lords and Gentlemen and Honourable Boards , it really was as composed as our own faces , and almost as dignified . 
And now , Johnny was to be inveigled into occupying a temporary position on Mrs Boffin's lap . 
This sound being taken up by the Minders , swelled into a rapturous trio which gave general satisfaction . 
So , the interview was considered very successful , and Mrs Boffin was pleased , and all were satisfied . 
Not least of all , Sloppy , who undertook to conduct the visitors back by the best way to the Three Magpies , and whom the hammer headed young man much despised . 
This piece of business thus put in train , the Secretary drove Mrs Boffin back to the Bower , and found employment for himself at the new house until evening . 
And , moreover , it is certain that there she was . 
No longer in mourning , Miss Bella was dressed in as pretty colours as she could muster . 
There is no denying that she was as pretty as they , and that she and the colours went very prettily together . 
'Eh ? said Miss Bella , raising her eyes from her book , when he stopped before her . 
'Only I. A fine evening ! 'Is it ? said Bella , looking coldly round . 
'I suppose it is , now you mention it . 
I have not been thinking of the evening . 
'So intent upon your book ? 'Ye e es , replied Bella , with a drawl of indifference . 
'A love story , Miss Wilfer ? 'Oh dear no , or I shouldn't be reading it . 
It's more about money than anything else . 
I don't want it any more . 
The Secretary took the book she had fluttered the leaves as if it were a fan and walked beside her . 
'I am charged with a message for you , Miss Wilfer . 
'Impossible , I think ! said Bella , with another drawl . 
She desired me to assure you of the pleasure she has in finding that she will be ready to receive you in another week or two at furthest . 
Bella turned her head towards him , with her prettily insolent eyebrows raised , and her eyelids drooping . 
As much as to say , 'How did YOU come by the message , pray ? 'I have been waiting for an opportunity of telling you that I am Mr Boffin's Secretary . 
'I am as wise as ever , said Miss Bella , loftily , 'for I don't know what a Secretary is . 
A covert glance at her face , as he walked beside her , showed him that she had not expected his ready assent to that proposition . 
'Then are you going to be always there , Mr Rokesmith ? she inquired , as if that would be a drawback . 
'Always ? No. Very much there ? Yes . 
'Dear me ! drawled Bella , in a tone of mortification . 
'But my position there as Secretary , will be very different from yours as guest . 
You will know little or nothing about me . 
I shall transact the business you will transact the pleasure . 
I shall have my salary to earn you will have nothing to do but to enjoy and attract . 
'Attract , sir ? said Bella , again with her eyebrows raised , and her eyelids drooping . 
Without replying on this point , Mr Rokesmith went on . 
'When I first saw you in your black dress , I was at a loss to account for that distinction between yourself and your family . 
I hope it was not impertinent to speculate upon it ? 'I hope not , I am sure , said Miss Bella , haughtily . 
'But you ought to know best how you speculated upon it . 
Mr Rokesmith inclined his head in a deprecatory manner , and went on . 
'Since I have been entrusted with Mr Boffin's affairs , I have necessarily come to understand the little mystery . 
I venture to remark that I feel persuaded that much of your loss may be repaired . 
I speak , of course , merely of wealth , Miss Wilfer . 
The loss of a perfect stranger , whose worth , or worthlessness , I cannot estimate nor you either is beside the question . 
As he watched her with another covert look , he saw a certain ambitious triumph in her face which no assumed coldness could conceal . 
You don't consider them intrusive I hope ? said the Secretary with deference . 
'Really , Mr Rokesmith , I can't say what I consider them , returned the young lady . 
'They are perfectly new to me , and may be founded altogether on your own imagination . 
These same fields were opposite the Wilfer premises . 
The discreet Mrs Wilfer now looking out of window and beholding her daughter in conference with her lodger , instantly tied up her head and came out for a casual walk . 
'A poor one enough , said Rokesmith . 
I have also been telling Miss Wilfer that she is expected very shortly at the new residence in town . 
Here Miss Bella offered the remonstrance 'Don't talk nonsense , ma , please . 
'Peace ! said Mrs Wilfer . 
'No , ma , I am not going to be made so absurd . 
Interposing objections ! 'I say , repeated Mrs Wilfer , with a vast access of grandeur , 'that I am NOT going to interpose objections . 
'You use the word , ma'am , I have myself used , said Rokesmith , with a glance at Bella , 'when you speak of Miss Wilfer's attractions there . 
'Pardon me , returned Mrs Wilfer , with dreadful solemnity , 'but I had not finished . 
The excellent lady delivered this luminous elucidation of her views with an air of greatly obliging her hearers , and greatly distinguishing herself . 
Whereat Miss Bella laughed a scornful little laugh and said 'Quite enough about this , I am sure , on all sides . 
Have the goodness , Mr Rokesmith , to give my love to Mrs Boffin 'Pardon me ! cried Mrs Wilfer . 
'Love ! repeated Bella , with a little stamp of her foot . 
'No ! said Mrs Wilfer , monotonously . 
'And I shall be very glad to come when she is ready for me . 
The sooner , the better . 
'One last word , Bella , said Mrs Wilfer , 'before descending to the family apartment . 
The condescension with which Mrs Wilfer delivered this proclamation of patronage , was as wonderful as the swiftness with which the lodger had lost caste in the Secretary . 
He smiled as the mother retired down stairs but his face fell , as the daughter followed . 
'So insolent , so trivial , so capricious , so mercenary , so careless , so hard to touch , so hard to turn ! he said , bitterly . 
And added as he went upstairs . 
'And yet so pretty , so pretty ! And added presently , as he walked to and fro in his room . 
The enchanting Lady Tippins leaves a card . 
A tall custard coloured phaeton tooling up in a solemn manner leaves four cards , to wit , a couple of Mr Podsnaps , a Mrs Podsnap , and a Miss Podsnap . 
All the world and his wife and daughter leave cards . 
Miss Bella Wilfer becomes an inmate , for an indefinite period , of the eminently aristocratic dwelling . 
Mrs Boffin bears Miss Bella away to her Milliner's and Dressmaker's , and she gets beautifully dressed . 
The Veneerings find with swift remorse that they have omitted to invite Miss Bella Wilfer . 
One Mrs Veneering and one Mr and Mrs Veneering requesting that additional honour , instantly do penance in white cardboard on the hall table . 
Likewise , for Mrs Henry George Alfred Swoshle NEE Tapkins . 
Likewise , for Mrs Tapkins at Home , Wednesdays , Music , Portland Place . 
Tradesmen's books hunger , and tradesmen's mouths water , for the gold dust of the Golden Dustman . 
His men cleanse their fingers on their woollen aprons before presuming to touch their foreheads to Mr Boffin or Lady . 
Presents are made to the Boffin servants , and bland strangers with business cards meeting said servants in the street , offer hypothetical corruption . 
But no one knows so well as the Secretary , who opens and reads the letters , what a set is made at the man marked by a stroke of notoriety . 
And then the charities , my Christian brother ! And mostly in difficulties , yet mostly lavish , too , in the expensive articles of print and paper . 
Large fat private double letter , sealed with ducal coronet . 
Soliciting your favourable reply before the th instant , I am , My Dear Sir , Your faithful Servant , LINSEED . 
P. S. The Steward's fee is limited to three Guineas . 
, only lithographed by the hundred and presenting but a pale individuality of an address to Nicodemus Boffin , Esquire , in quite another hand . 
These are the corporate beggars . 
, the non return of which would be their ruin . 
That is say , they are utterly ruined now , but they would be more utterly ruined then . 
There are the inspired beggars , too . 
, when a gifted friend happening to look in , said , 'Write immediately to Nicodemus Boffin , Esquire , and would take no denial . 
There are the nobly independent beggars too . 
There are the beggars of punctual business habits too . 
There are the beggars on horseback too , in another sense from the sense of the proverb . 
These are mounted and ready to start on the highway to affluence . 
Less given to detail are the beggars who make sporting ventures . 
There are no designs against the Golden Dustman there ? There are no fish of the shark tribe in the Bower waters ? Perhaps not . 
Still , Wegg is established there , and would seem , judged by his secret proceedings , to cherish a notion of making a discovery . 
The teachers , animated solely by good intentions , had no idea of execution , and a lamentable jumble was the upshot of their kind endeavours . 
It was a school for all ages , and for both sexes . 
The latter were kept apart , and the former were partitioned off into square assortments . 
But , all the place was pervaded by a grimly ludicrous pretence that every pupil was childish and innocent . 
This pretence , much favoured by the lady visitors , led to the ghastliest absurdities . 
his particular friend and benefactor , of eighteenpence , presently came into supernatural possession of three and sixpence , and lived a shining light ever afterwards . 
An exceedingly and confoundingly perplexing jumble of a school , in fact , where black spirits and grey , red spirits and white , jumbled jumbled jumbled jumbled , jumbled every night . 
And particularly every Sunday night . 
For then , an inclined plane of unfortunate infants would be handed over to the prosiest and worst of all the teachers with good intentions , whom nobody older would endure . 
Who , taking his stand on the floor before them as chief executioner , would be attended by a conventional volunteer boy as executioner's assistant . 
In this way it had come about that Charley Hexam had risen in the jumble , taught in the jumble , and been received from the jumble into a better school . 
'So you want to go and see your sister , Hexam ? 'If you please , Mr Headstone . 
'I have half a mind to go with you . 
Where does your sister live ? 'Why , she is not settled yet , Mr Headstone . 
I'd rather you didn't see her till she is settled , if it was all the same to you . 
Mr Bradley Headstone , highly certificated stipendiary schoolmaster , drew his right forefinger through one of the buttonholes of the boy's coat , and looked at it attentively . 
'I hope your sister may be good company for you ? 'Why do you doubt it , Mr Headstone ? 'I did not say I doubted it . 
'No , sir you didn't say so . 
Bradley Headstone looked at his finger again , took it out of the buttonhole and looked at it closer , bit the side of it and looked at it again . 
'You see , Hexam , you will be one of us . 
In good time you are sure to pass a creditable examination and become one of us . 
'Is it well to leave my sister alone , Mr Headstone ? 'I do not say so , because I do not know . 
I put it to you . 
I ask you to think of it . 
I want you to consider . 
You know how well you are doing here . 
'After all , she got me here , said the boy , with a struggle . 
'Perceiving the necessity of it , acquiesced the schoolmaster , 'and making up her mind fully to the separation . 
The boy , with a return of that former reluctance or struggle or whatever it was , seemed to debate with himself . 
At length he said , raising his eyes to the master's face 'I wish you'd come with me and see her , Mr Headstone , though she is not settled . 
I wish you'd come with me , and take her in the rough , and judge her for yourself . 
'You are sure you would not like , asked the schoolmaster , 'to prepare her ? 'My sister Lizzie , said the boy , proudly , 'wants no preparing , Mr Headstone . 
What she is , she is , and shows herself to be . 
There's no pretending about my sister . 
His confidence in her , sat more easily upon him than the indecision with which he had twice contended . 
It was his better nature to be true to her , if it were his worse nature to be wholly selfish . 
And as yet the better nature had the stronger hold . 
'Well , I can spare the evening , said the schoolmaster . 
'I am ready to walk with you . 
'Thank you , Mr Headstone . 
And I am ready to go . 
He had acquired mechanically a great store of teacher's knowledge . 
He could do mental arithmetic mechanically , sing at sight mechanically , blow various wind instruments mechanically , even play the great church organ mechanically . 
From his early childhood up , his mind had been a place of mechanical stowage . 
There was a kind of settled trouble in the face . 
He always seemed to be uneasy lest anything should be missing from his mental warehouse , and taking stock to assure himself . 
Suppression of so much to make room for so much , had given him a constrained manner , over and above . 
Regarding that origin of his , he was proud , moody , and sullen , desiring it to be forgotten . 
And few people knew of it . 
In some visits to the Jumble his attention had been attracted to this boy Hexam . 
An undeniable boy for a pupil teacher an undeniable boy to do credit to the master who should bring him on . 
Combined with this consideration , there may have been some thought of the pauper lad now never to be mentioned . 
Such were the circumstances that had brought together , Bradley Headstone and young Charley Hexam that autumn evening . 
Autumn , because full half a year had come and gone since the bird of prey lay dead upon the river shore . 
As if the child had given the table a kick , and gone to sleep . 
It came out in Miss Peecher the schoolmistress , watering her flowers , as Mr Bradley Headstone walked forth . 
Small , shining , neat , methodical , and buxom was Miss Peecher cherry cheeked and tuneful of voice . 
The decent hair guard that went round his neck and took care of his decent silver watch was an object of envy to her . 
So would Miss Peecher have gone round his neck and taken care of him . 
Because he did not love Miss Peecher . 
So , there was a double palpitation among the double stocks and double wall flowers , when the master and the boy looked over the little gate . 
'A fine evening , Miss Peecher , said the Master . 
'A very fine evening , Mr Headstone , said Miss Peecher . 
'Are you taking a walk ? 'Hexam and I are going to take a long walk . 
'Charming weather , remarked Miss Peecher , FOR a long walk . 
'Ours is rather on business than mere pleasure , said the Master . 
'Good night , Miss Peecher , said the Master . 
'Good night , Mr Headstone , said the Mistress . 
'Well , Mary Anne ? said Miss Peecher . 
'If you please , ma'am , Hexam said they were going to see his sister . 
'But that can't be , I think , returned Miss Peecher 'because Mr Headstone can have no business with HER . 
'Well , Mary Anne ? 'If you please , ma'am , perhaps it's Hexam's business ? 'That may be , said Miss Peecher . 
'I didn't think of that . 
Not that it matters at all . 
'Well , Mary Anne ? 'They say she's very handsome . 
'Person , They ? 'Third person . 
'Number , They ? 'Plural number . 
As she said it , she unhooked her arm . 
'I felt convinced of it , returned Miss Peecher , smiling again . 
'Now pray , Mary Anne , be careful another time . 
He says is very different from they say , remember . 
Difference between he says and they say ? Give it me . 
Other is indicative mood , present tense , third person plural , verb active to say . 
'Why verb active , Mary Anne ? 'Because it takes a pronoun after it in the objective case , Miss Peecher . 
'Very good indeed , remarked Miss Peecher , with encouragement . 
'In fact , could not be better . 
Don't forget to apply it , another time , Mary Anne . 
Bradley Headstone and Charley Hexam duly got to the Surrey side of Westminster Bridge , and crossed the bridge , and made along the Middlesex shore towards Millbank . 
They found a tree near by in a corner , and a blacksmith's forge , and a timber yard , and a dealer's in old iron . 
Like the Miller of questionable jollity in the song , They cared for Nobody , no not they , and Nobody cared for them . 
To these Charley Hexam finally led the way , and at one of these stopped . 
'This must be where my sister lives , sir . 
This is where she came for a temporary lodging , soon after father's death . 
'How often have you seen her since ? 'Why , only twice , sir , returned the boy , with his former reluctance 'but that's as much her doing as mine . 
'How does she support herself ? 'She was always a fair needlewoman , and she keeps the stockroom of a seaman's outfitter . 
'Does she ever work at her own lodging here ? 'Sometimes but her regular hours and regular occupation are at their place of business , I believe , sir . 
The boy knocked at a door , and the door promptly opened with a spring and a click . 
'I can't get up , said the child , 'because my back's bad , and my legs are queer . 
But I'm the person of the house . 
'Who else is at home ? asked Charley Hexam , staring . 
'Nobody's at home at present , returned the child , with a glib assertion of her dignity , 'except the person of the house . 
What did you want , young man ? 'I wanted to see my sister . 
'Many young men have sisters , returned the child . 
As if , being turned out of that mould , it must be sharp . 
'Ah , indeed ? said the person of the house . 
'I thought it might be . 
Your sister will be in , in about a quarter of an hour . 
I am very fond of your sister . 
And this gentleman's name ? 'Mr Headstone , my schoolmaster . 
And would you please to shut the street door first ? I can't very well do it myself because my back's so bad , and my legs are so queer . 
, she was to cover them smartly . 
'You can't tell me the name of my trade , I'll be bound , she said , after taking several of these observations . 
'You make pincushions , said Charley . 
'What else do I make ? 'Pen wipers , said Bradley Headstone . 
'Ha ! ha ! What else do I make ? You're a schoolmaster , but you can't tell me . 
'You do something , he returned , pointing to a corner of the little bench , 'with straw but I don't know what . 
'Well done you ! cried the person of the house . 
'I only make pincushions and pen wipers , to use up my waste . 
But my straw really does belong to my business . 
What do I make with my straw ? 'Dinner mats ? 'A schoolmaster , and says dinner mats ! I'll give you a clue to my trade , in a game of forfeits . 
Now , what do I make with my straw ? 'Ladies' bonnets ? 'Fine ladies' , said the person of the house , nodding assent . 
'I hope it's a good business ? The person of the house shrugged her shoulders and shook her head . 
And I'm often so pressed for time ! I had a doll married , last week , and was obliged to work all night . 
And it's not good for me , on account of my back being so bad and my legs so queer . 
They looked at the little creature with a wonder that did not diminish , and the schoolmaster said 'I am sorry your fine ladies are so inconsiderate . 
'It's the way with them , said the person of the house , shrugging her shoulders again . 
'And they take no care of their clothes , and they never keep to the same fashions a month . 
I work for a doll with three daughters . 
She had an elfin chin that was capable of great expression and whenever she gave this look , she hitched this chin up . 
As if her eyes and her chin worked together on the same wires . 
'Are you always as busy as you are now ? 'Busier . 
I finished a large mourning order the day before yesterday . 
Doll I work for , lost a canary bird . 
'Don't any of the neighbouring children ? 'Ah , lud ! cried the person of the house , with a little scream , as if the word had pricked her . 
I know their tricks and their manners . 
She said this with an angry little shake of her tight fist close before her eyes . 
Perhaps it scarcely required the teacher habit , to perceive that the doll's dressmaker was inclined to be bitter on the difference between herself and other children . 
But both master and pupil understood it so . 
Ever so often calling names in through a person's keyhole , and imitating a person's back and legs . 
Oh ! I know their tricks and their manners . 
And I'll tell you what I'd do , to punish 'em . 
There's doors under the church in the Square black doors , leading into black vaults . 
Well ! I'd open one of those doors , and I'd cram 'em all in , and then I'd lock the door and through the keyhole I'd blow in pepper . 
'What would be the good of blowing in pepper ? asked Charley Hexam . 
'To set 'em sneezing , said the person of the house , 'and make their eyes water . 
And when they were all sneezing and inflamed , I'd mock 'em through the keyhole . 
It was difficult to guess the age of this strange creature , for her poor figure furnished no clue to it , and her face was at once so young and so old . 
Twelve , or at the most thirteen , might be near the mark . 
'I always did like grown ups , she went on , 'and always kept company with them . 
Don't go prancing and capering about ! And I mean always to keep among none but grown ups till I marry . 
I suppose I must make up my mind to marry , one of these days . 
She listened to a step outside that caught her ear , and there was a soft knock at the door . 
'Charley ! You ! Taking him to her arms in the old way of which he seemed a little ashamed she saw no one else . 
'There , there , there , Liz , all right my dear . 
See ! Here's Mr Headstone come with me . 
Her eyes met those of the schoolmaster , who had evidently expected to see a very different sort of person , and a murmured word or two of salutation passed between them . 
She was a little flurried by the unexpected visit , and the schoolmaster was not at his ease . 
But he never was , quite . 
'I told Mr Headstone you were not settled , Liz , but he was so kind as to take an interest in coming , and so I brought him . 
How well you look ! Bradley seemed to think so . 
'Ah ! Don't she , don't she ? cried the person of the house , resuming her occupation , though the twilight was falling fast . 
'I believe you she does ! But go on with your chat , one and all You one two three , My com pa nie , And don't mind me . 
pointing this impromptu rhyme with three points of her thin fore finger . 
'I didn't expect a visit from you , Charley , said his sister . 
'I supposed that if you wanted to see me you would have sent to me , appointing me to come somewhere near the school , as I did last time . 
I saw my brother near the school , sir , to Bradley Headstone , 'because it's easier for me to go there , than for him to come here . 
I work about midway between the two places . 
'You don't see much of one another , said Bradley , not improving in respect of ease . 
With a rather sad shake of her head . 
'Charley always does well , Mr Headstone ? 'He could not do better . 
I regard his course as quite plain before him . 
between him and his prospects . 
He has to work hard . 
One cannot but say that the less his attention is diverted from his work , the better for his future . 
When he shall have established himself , why then it will be another thing then . 
Lizzie shook her head again , and returned , with a quiet smile 'I always advised him as you advise him . 
Did I not , Charley ? 'Well , never mind that now , said the boy . 
'How are you getting on ? 'Very well , Charley . 
'You have your own room here ? 'Oh yes . 
And it's quiet , and pleasant , and airy . 
'Always this room for visitors haven't you , Lizzie dear ? It happened that Bradley Headstone noticed a very slight action of Lizzie Hexam's hand , as though it checked the doll's dressmaker . 
'I'll saunter on by the river , said Bradley . 
'You will be glad to talk together . 
'I am very well where I am , Charley . 
'Very well where you are ! I am ashamed to have brought Mr Headstone with me . 
How came you to get into such company as that little witch's ? 'By chance at first , as it seemed , Charley . 
'Well what of them ? 'This child is the grandchild of the old man . 
'What old man ? 'The terrible drunken old man , in the list slippers and the night cap . 
The father is like his own father , a weak wretched trembling creature , falling to pieces , never sober . 
But a good workman too , at the work he does . 
This poor ailing little creature has come to be what she is , surrounded by drunken people from her cradle if she ever had one , Charley . 
'I don't see what you have to do with her , for all that , said the boy . 
'Don't you , Charley ? The boy looked doggedly at the river . 
They were at Millbank , and the river rolled on their left . 
His sister gently touched him on the shoulder , and pointed to it . 
'Any compensation restitution never mind the word , you know my meaning . 
But he did not respond with any tenderness . 
'I , Charley ? 'Yes , you , Liz . 
'And never look back ? Not even to try to make some amends ? 'You are such a dreamer , said the boy , with his former petulance . 
'It was all very well when we sat before the fire when we looked into the hollow down by the flare but we are looking into the real world , now . 
'Ah , we were looking into the real world then , Charley ! 'I understand what you mean by that , but you are not justified in it . 
I don't want , as I raise myself to shake you off , Liz . 
I want to carry you up with me . 
That's what I want to do , and mean to do . 
I know what I owe you . 
I said to Mr Headstone this very evening , After all , my sister got me here . 
Don't pull me back , and hold me down . 
That's all I ask , and surely that's not unconscionable . 
She had kept a steadfast look upon him , and she answered with composure 'I am not here selfishly , Charley . 
To please myself I could not be too far from that river . 
'Nor could you be too far from it to please me . 
Let us get quit of it equally . 
Why should you linger about it any more than I ? I give it a wide berth . 
'I can't get away from it , I think , said Lizzie , passing her hand across her forehead . 
'It's no purpose of mine that I live by it still . 
Now , do be more practical . 
She had been practical enough with him , in suffering and striving for him but she only laid her hand upon his shoulder not reproachfully and tapped it twice or thrice . 
She had been used to do so , to soothe him when she carried him about , a child as heavy as herself . 
Tears started to his eyes . 
All I say is , that I hope you'll control your fancies a little , on my account . 
'You haven't , Charley , you haven't . 
'And say I haven't hurt you . 
But this answer was less ready . 
'Say you are sure I didn't mean to . 
Come ! There's Mr Headstone stopping and looking over the wall at the tide , to hint that it's time to go . 
Kiss me , and tell me that you know I didn't mean to hurt you . 
She told him so , and they embraced , and walked on and came up with the schoolmaster . 
'But we go your sister's way , he remarked , when the boy told him he was ready . 
And with his cumbrous and uneasy action he stiffly offered her his arm . 
Her hand was just within it , when she drew it back . 
He looked round with a start , as if he thought she had detected something that repelled her , in the momentary touch . 
'I will not go in just yet , said Lizzie . 
'And you have a distance before you , and will walk faster without me . 
The master and the pupil walked on , rapidly and silently . 
They had nearly crossed the bridge , when a gentleman came coolly sauntering towards them , with a cigar in his mouth , his coat thrown back , and his hands behind him . 
As the gentleman passed the boy looked at him narrowly , and then stood still , looking after him . 
'Who is it that you stare after ? asked Bradley . 
'You don't appear to like your friend , Hexam ? 'I DON'T like him , said the boy . 
'Why not ? 'He took hold of me by the chin in a precious impertinent way , the first time I ever saw him , said the boy . 
'Again , why ? 'For nothing . 
Or it's much the same because something I happened to say about my sister didn't happen to please him . 
'Then he knows your sister ? 'He didn't at that time , said the boy , still moodily pondering . 
'Going to see her , I dare say . 
'It can't be ! said the boy , quickly . 
'He doesn't know her well enough . 
What did you say his name was ? 'Wrayburn . 
He is what they call a barrister , with nothing to do . 
The first time be came to our old place was when my father was alive . 
He came on business not that it was HIS business HE never had any business he was brought by a friend of his . 
'And the other times ? 'There was only one other time that I know of . 
When my father was killed by accident , he chanced to be one of the finders . 
He was mooning about , I suppose , taking liberties with people's chins but there he was , somehow . 
He brought the news home to my sister early in the morning , and brought Miss Abbey Potterson , a neighbour , to help break it to her . 
'And is that all ? 'That's all , sir . 
Bradley Headstone gradually released the boy's arm , as if he were thoughtful , and they walked on side by side as before . 
After a long silence between them , Bradley resumed the talk . 
'I suppose your sister with a curious break both before and after the words , 'has received hardly any teaching , Hexam ? 'Hardly any , sir . 
'Sacrificed , no doubt , to her father's objections . 
I remember them in your case . 
Yet your sister scarcely looks or speaks like an ignorant person . 
'Lizzie has as much thought as the best , Mr Headstone . 
Too much , perhaps , without teaching . 
I used to call the fire at home , her books , for she was always full of fancies sometimes quite wise fancies , considering when she sat looking at it . 
'I don't like that , said Bradley Headstone . 
His pupil was a little surprised by this striking in with so sudden and decided and emotional an objection , but took it as a proof of the master's interest in himself . 
'That's much my own meaning , sir . 
'Ay , ay , said Bradley Headstone , 'but you spoke of a mere brother . 
After all , you know , it must be said of you that you couldn't help yourself while it would be said of him , with equal reason , that he could . 
Sometimes since Lizzie was left free by father's death , I have thought that such a young woman might soon acquire more than enough to pass muster . 
'Would you be so kind as to think of it for me , Mr Headstone ? 'Yes , Hexam , yes . 
I'll think maturely of it . 
I'll think well of it . 
Their walk was almost a silent one afterwards , until it ended at the school house . 
N. B. Miss Peecher and Miss Peecher's pupils were not much encouraged in the unscholastic art of needlework , by Government . 
Mary Anne with her face to the window , held her arm up . 
'Well , Mary Anne ? 'Mr Headstone coming home , ma'am . 
In about a minute , Mary Anne again hailed . 
'Yes , Mary Anne ? 'Gone in and locked his door , ma'am . 
The person of the house had attained that dignity while yet of very tender years indeed , through being the only trustworthy person IN the house . 
'Well Lizzie Mizzie Wizzie , said she , breaking off in her song . 
'Let me see , said the blind man . 
Why the last news is , that I don't mean to marry your brother . 
'No ? 'No o , shaking her head and her chin . 
'What do you say to his master ? 'I say that I think he's bespoke . 
Lizzie finished putting the hair carefully back over the misshapen shoulders , and then lighted a candle . 
It showed the little parlour to be dingy , but orderly and clean . 
It was a sultry night , and this was a fine weather arrangement when the day's work was done . 
To complete it , she seated herself in a chair by the side of the little chair , and protectingly drew under her arm the spare hand that crept up to her . 
'This is what your loving Jenny Wren calls the best time in the day and night , said the person of the house . 
Her real name was Fanny Cleaver but she had long ago chosen to bestow upon herself the appellation of Miss Jenny Wren . 
Because when I am courted , I shall make Him do some of the things that you do for me . 
'Don't you think you are rather hard upon him ? asked her friend , smiling , and smoothing her hair . 
'Not a bit , replied the sage Miss Wren , with an air of vast experience . 
'My dear , they don't care for you , those fellows , if you're NOT hard upon 'em . 
But I was saying If I should be able to have your company . 
Ah ! What a large If ! Ain't it ? 'I have no intention of parting company , Jenny . 
'Don't say that , or you'll go directly . 
'Am I so little to be relied upon ? 'You're more to be relied upon than silver and gold . 
As she said it , Miss Wren suddenly broke off , screwed up her eyes and her chin , and looked prodigiously knowing . 
'Aha ! Who comes here ? A Grenadier . 
What does he want ? A pot of beer . 
And nothing else in the world , my dear ! A man's figure paused on the pavement at the outer door . 
'Mr Eugene Wrayburn , ain't it ? said Miss Wren . 
'So I am told , was the answer . 
'You may come in , if you're good . 
'I am not good , said Eugene , 'but I'll come in . 
He gave his hand to Jenny Wren , and he gave his hand to Lizzie , and he stood leaning by the door at Lizzie's side . 
and he had strolled round to return in that direction that he might look in as he passed . 
Had she not seen her brother to night ? 'Yes , said Lizzie , whose manner was a little troubled . 
Gracious condescension on our brother's part ! Mr Eugene Wrayburn thought he had passed my young gentleman on the bridge yonder . 
Who was his friend with him ? 'The schoolmaster . 
Lizzie sat so still , that one could not have said wherein the fact of her manner being troubled was expressed and yet one could not have doubted it . 
'I have nothing to report , Lizzie , said Eugene . 
'I should not have doubted it , sir . 
'Generally , I confess myself a man to be doubted , returned Eugene , coolly , 'for all that . 
'Why are you ? asked the sharp Miss Wren . 
'Because , my dear , said the airy Eugene , 'I am a bad idle dog . 
'Then why don't you reform and be a good dog ? inquired Miss Wren . 
'Because , my dear , returned Eugene , 'there's nobody who makes it worth my while . 
'I have thought of it , Mr Wrayburn , but I have not been able to make up my mind to accept it . 
'False pride ! said Eugene . 
'I think not , Mr Wrayburn . 
'False pride ! repeated Eugene . 
'Why , what else is it ? The thing is worth nothing in itself . 
The thing is worth nothing to me . 
What can it be worth to me ? You know the most I make of it . 
contemptible shillings , to come here , certain nights in the week , and give you certain instruction which you wouldn't want if you hadn't been a self denying daughter and sister . 
You know that it's good to have it , or you would never have so devoted yourself to your brother's having it . 
Because true pride wouldn't shame , or be shamed by , your thankless brother . 
True pride wouldn't have schoolmasters brought here , like doctors , to look at a bad case . 
True pride would go to work and do it . 
I add no more than this . 
Your false pride does wrong to yourself and does wrong to your dead father . 
'How to my father , Mr Wrayburn ? she asked , with an anxious face . 
'How to your father ? Can you ask ! By perpetuating the consequences of his ignorant and blind obstinacy . 
By resolving not to set right the wrong he did you . 
By determining that the deprivation to which he condemned you , and which he forced upon you , shall always rest upon his head . 
It chanced to be a subtle string to sound , in her who had so spoken to her brother within the hour . 
All these qualities , in him usually so light and careless , she felt to be inseparable from some touch of their opposites in her own breast . 
'Don't be distressed , said Eugene , very , very kindly . 
'I hope it is not I who have distressed you . 
I meant no more than to put the matter in its true light before you though I acknowledge I did it selfishly enough , for I am disappointed . 
Disappointed of doing her a service . 
How else COULD he be disappointed ? 'It won't break my heart , laughed Eugene 'it won't stay by me eight and forty hours but I am genuinely disappointed . 
I had set my fancy on doing this little thing for you and for our friend Miss Jenny . 
The novelty of my doing anything in the least useful , had its charms . 
I see , now , that I might have managed it better . 
I might have affected to do it wholly for our friend Miss J. I might have got myself up , morally , as Sir Eugene Bountiful . 
But upon my soul I can't make flourishes , and I would rather be disappointed than try . 
If he meant to follow home what was in Lizzie's thoughts , it was skilfully done . 
If he followed it by mere fortuitous coincidence , it was done by an evil chance . 
'It opened out so naturally before me , said Eugene . 
'The ball seemed so thrown into my hands by accident ! I happen to be originally brought into contact with you , Lizzie , on those two occasions that you know of . 
I happen to be able to promise you that a watch shall be kept upon that false accuser , Riderhood . 
I happen to be able to give you some little consolation in the darkest hour of your distress , by assuring you that I don't believe him . 
I hope I have explained myself for I am heartily sorry to have distressed you . 
I hate to claim to mean well , but I really did mean honestly and simply well , and I want you to know it . 
'I have never doubted that , Mr Wrayburn , said Lizzie the more repentant , the less he claimed . 
'I am very glad to hear it . 
Though if you had quite understood my whole meaning at first , I think you would not have refused . 
Do you think you would ? 'I don't know that I should , Mr Wrayburn . 
'Take all the consequences , laughed Eugene , 'and take away my disappointment . 
Lizzie Hexam , as I truly respect you , and as I am your friend and a poor devil of a gentleman , I protest I don't even now understand why you hesitate . 
'I will not hesitate any longer , Mr Wrayburn . 
I hope you will not think the worse of me for having hesitated at all . 
Without changing her attitude , she answered , 'Yes ! so suddenly that it rather seemed as if she had chopped the monosyllable than spoken it . 
'For myself and for Jenny , I thankfully accept your kind offer . 
'Agreed ! Dismissed ! said Eugene , giving Lizzie his hand before lightly waving it , as if he waved the whole subject away . 
'I hope it may not be often that so much is made of so little ! Then he fell to talking playfully with Jenny Wren . 
'I think of setting up a doll , Miss Jenny , he said . 
'You had better not , replied the dressmaker . 
'Why not ? 'You are sure to break it . 
'But that makes good for trade , you know , Miss Wren , returned Eugene . 
'Much as people's breaking promises and contracts and bargains of all sorts , makes good for MY trade . 
'I don't know about that , Miss Wren retorted 'but you had better by half set up a pen wiper , and turn industrious , and use it . 
'Bad for business , bad for business . 
If we all set to work as soon as we could use our hands , it would be all over with the dolls' dressmakers . 
'There's something in that , replied Miss Wren 'you have a sort of an idea in your noddle sometimes . 
'As a commonplace individual , I should say , Eugene suggested languidly for he was growing weary of the person of the house 'that you smell flowers because you DO smell flowers . 
And yet as I sit at work , I smell miles of flowers . 
I smell roses , till I think I see the rose leaves lying in heaps , bushels , on the floor . 
I smell fallen leaves , till I put down my hand so and expect to make them rustle . 
I smell the white and the pink May in the hedges , and all sorts of flowers that I never was among . 
For I have seen very few flowers indeed , in my life . 
'So I think , Lizzie , when they come to me . 
Then the chin dropped musingly upon the hand again . 
'I dare say my birds sing better than other birds , and my flowers smell better than other flowers . 
They were not like me they were not chilled , anxious , ragged , or beaten they were never in pain . 
They were not like the children of the neighbours they never made me tremble all over , by setting up shrill noises , and they never mocked me . 
Then it was all delicious ease and rest till they laid me down , and said , all together , Have patience , and we will come again . 
Having so paused for a moment , silent , with a listening smile upon her face , she looked round and recalled herself . 
'What poor fun you think me don't you , Mr Wrayburn ? You may well look tired of me . 
But it's Saturday night , and I won't detain you . 
And my child is a troublesome bad child , and costs me a world of scolding . 
I would rather you didn't see my child . 
'A doll ? said Eugene , not understanding , and looking for an explanation . 
But Lizzie , with her lips only , shaping the two words , 'Her father , he delayed no longer . 
He took his leave immediately . 
At the corner of the street he stopped to light another cigar , and possibly to ask himself what he was doing otherwise . 
If so , the answer was indefinite and vague . 
Who knows what he is doing , who is careless what he does ! A man stumbled against him as he turned away , who mumbled some maudlin apology . 
Looking after this man , Eugene saw him go in at the door by which he himself had just come out . 
On the man's stumbling into the room , Lizzie rose to leave it . 
'Don't go away , Miss Hexam , he said in a submissive manner , speaking thickly and with difficulty . 
'Don't fly from unfortunate man in shattered state of health . 
Give poor invalid honour of your company . 
Lizzie murmured that she had something to do in her own room , and went away upstairs . 
'How's my Jenny ? said the man , timidly . 
Abject tears stood in its eyes , and stained the blotched red of its cheeks . 
The swollen lead coloured under lip trembled with a shameful whine . 
The whole indecorous threadbare ruin , from the broken shoes to the prematurely grey scanty hair , grovelled . 
'I know your tricks and your manners , cried Miss Wren . 
'Oh , you disgraceful old chap ! The very breathing of the figure was contemptible , as it laboured and rattled in that operation , like a blundering clock . 
As often as the person of the house worked her way round to it even as soon as he saw that it was coming he collapsed in an extra degree . 
'I wish you had been taken up , and locked up , said the person of the house . 
'I wish you had been poked into cells and black holes , and run over by rats and spiders and beetles . 
I know their tricks and their manners , and they'd have tickled you nicely . 
Ain't you ashamed of yourself ? 'Yes , my dear , stammered the father . 
'I'LL circumstance you and control you too , retorted the person of the house , speaking with vehement sharpness , 'if you talk in that way . 
How should you like to be transported for life ? 'Shouldn't like it . 
Trouble nobody long , cried the wretched figure . 
Put down your money this instant . 
The obedient figure began to rummage in its pockets . 
'Spent a fortune out of your wages , I'll be bound ! said the person of the house . 
'Got no more , was the rueful answer , with an accordant shake of the head . 
You know what you've got to do . 
Turn all your pockets inside out , and leave 'em so ! cried the person of the house . 
And if anything could have made him look more abject or more dismally ridiculous than before , it would have been his so displaying himself . 
'Here's but seven and eightpence halfpenny ! exclaimed Miss Wren , after reducing the heap to order . 
'Oh , you prodigal old son ! Now you shall be starved . 
'No , don't starve me , he urged , whimpering . 
As it is , go to bed . 
I'm not going to forgive you . 
Within a little while afterwards , Lizzie came down . 
'Shall we have our supper , Jenny dear ? 'Ah ! bless us and save us , we need have something to keep us going , returned Miss Jenny , shrugging her shoulders . 
, and put upon it such plain fare as they were accustomed to have , and drew up a stool for herself . 
'Oh , but he won't , said Lizzie . 
'You'll take care of that , beforehand . 
'I shall try to take care of it beforehand , but he might deceive me . 
Oh , my dear , all those fellows with their tricks and their manners do deceive ! With the little fist in full action . 
'And if so , I tell you what I think I'd do . 
'I am sure you would do no such horrible thing , said Lizzie . 
'Shouldn't I ? Well perhaps I shouldn't . 
But I should like to ! 'I am equally sure you would not . 
'Not even like to ? Well , you generally know best . 
Only you haven't always lived among it as I have lived and your back isn't bad and your legs are not queer . 
As they went on with their supper , Lizzie tried to bring her round to that prettier and better state . 
But , the charm was broken . 
The doll's dressmaker had become a little quaint shrew of the world , worldly of the earth , earthy . 
, discovers all of a sudden that she wants Veneering in Parliament . 
It occurs to her that Veneering is 'a representative man' which cannot in these times be doubted and that Her Majesty's faithful Commons are incomplete without him . 
Above all things , he says , it behoves him to be clear , at a crisis of this importance , 'whether his friends will rally round him . 
Veneering then says to Mrs Veneering , 'We must work , and throws himself into a Hansom cab . 
Veneering having instructed his driver to charge at the Public in the streets , like the Life Guards at Waterloo , is driven furiously to Duke Street , Saint James's . 
There , he finds Twemlow in his lodgings , fresh from the hands of a secret artist who has been doing something to his hair with yolks of eggs . 
Do you think he would give me his name ? In sudden low spirits , Twemlow replies , 'I don't think he would . 
'It might be so , says Twemlow 'but And perplexedly scratching his head , forgetful of the yolks of eggs , is the more discomfited by being reminded how stickey he is . 
'Between such old and intimate friends as ourselves , pursues Veneering , 'there should in such a case be no reserve . 
Promise me that if I ask you to do anything for me which you don't like to do , or feel the slightest difficulty in doing , you will freely tell me so . 
This , Twemlow is so kind as to promise , with every appearance of most heartily intending to keep his word . 
Would you have any objection ? Says Twemlow , with his hand to his forehead , 'You have exacted a promise from me . 
'I have , my dear Twemlow . 
'And you expect me to keep it honourably . 
'I do , my dear Twemlow . 
'Bless you , bless you ! says Veneering horribly disappointed , but grasping him by both hands again , in a particularly fervent manner . 
, and abstaining from the choicest of the Family Wines unless expressly invited to partake . 
'One thing , however , I CAN do for you , says Twemlow 'and that is , work for you . 
'I'll go , says Twemlow , in a rising hurry of spirits , 'to the club let us see now what o'clock is it ? 'Twenty minutes to eleven . 
'I'll be , says Twemlow , 'at the club by ten minutes to twelve , and I'll never leave it all day . 
Veneering feels that his friends are rallying round him , and says , 'Thank you , thank you . 
I knew I could rely upon you . 
'You were right , you were right , replies Twemlow . 
Is SHE working ? 'She is , says Veneering . 
'Good ! cries Twemlow , polite little gentleman that he is . 
'A woman's tact is invaluable . 
To have the dear sex with us , is to have everything with us . 
Veneering again blesses him , plunges down stairs , rushes into his Hansom , and directs the driver to be up and at the British Public , and to charge into the City . 
At the club he promptly secures a large window , writing materials , and all the newspapers , and establishes himself immoveable , to be respectfully contemplated by Pall Mall . 
Sometimes , when a man enters who nods to him , Twemlow says , 'Do you know Veneering ? Man says , 'No member of the club ? Twemlow says , 'Yes . 
Coming in for Pocket Breaches . 
Man says , 'Ah ! Hope he may find it worth the money ! yawns , and saunters out . 
From Twemlow's , Veneering dashes at Podsnap's place of business . 
Finds Podsnap reading the paper , standing , and inclined to be oratorical over the astonishing discovery he has made , that Italy is not England . 
Respectfully entreats Podsnap's pardon for stopping the flow of his words of wisdom , and informs him what is in the wind . 
Tells Podsnap that their political opinions are identical . 
Gives Podsnap to understand that he , Veneering , formed his political opinions while sitting at the feet of him , Podsnap . 
'Now , I'll be plain with you , Veneering , says Podsnap , knitting his brows . 
'It is not worth my while , pursues Podsnap , becoming handsomely mollified , 'and it is the reverse of important to my position . 
But it is not my wish to set myself up as law for another man , differently situated . 
You think it IS worth YOUR while , and IS important to YOUR position . 
Is that so ? Always with the proviso that Podsnap will rally round him , Veneering thinks it is so . 
'Then you don't ask my advice , says Podsnap . 
Then I won't give it you . 
But you do ask my help . 
Then I'll work for you . 
Veneering instantly blesses him , and apprises him that Twemlow is already working . 
'I have nothing very particular to do to day , adds Podsnap , 'and I'll mix with some influential people . 
I had engaged myself to dinner , but I'll send Mrs Podsnap and get off going myself and I'll dine with you at eight . 
It's important we should report progress and compare notes . 
Now , let me see . 
You ought to have a couple of active energetic fellows , of gentlemanly manners , to go about . 
Veneering , after cogitation , thinks of Boots and Brewer . 
'Whom I have met at your house , says Podsnap . 
Let them each have a cab , and go about . 
Leaving Podsnap , at a hand gallop , he descends upon Boots and Brewer , who enthusiastically rally round him by at once bolting off in cabs , taking opposite directions . 
Mrs Veneering , during the same eventful hours , is not idle . 
No sooner does the carriage turn out , all complete , than she turns into it , all complete , and gives the word 'To Lady Tippins's . 
As well she may , to find herself dressing under the circumstances . 
cunningly turned towards the light . 
, until she drops by the side of baby's crib . 
'My love , says Lady Tippins , 'compose yourself we'll bring him in . 
I'm pretending to be an electioneering agent . 
And for what place of all places ? Pocket Breaches . 
And why ? Because the dearest friend I have in the world has bought it . 
And who is the dearest friend I have in the world ? A man of the name of Veneering . 
Not omitting his wife , who is the other dearest friend I have in the world and I positively declare I forgot their baby , who is the other . 
Curious to see 'em , my dear ? Say you'll know 'em . 
Come and dine with 'em . 
Say who shall meet you . 
We'll make up a party of our own , and I'll engage that they shall not interfere with you for one single moment . 
You really ought to see their gold and silver camels . 
I call their dinner table , the Caravan . 
More is done , or considered to be done which does as well by taking cabs , and 'going about , than the fair Tippins knew of . 
Many vast vague reputations have been made , solely by taking cabs and going about . 
This particularly obtains in all Parliamentary affairs . 
with the air of firemen in charge of an engine , expecting intelligence of some tremendous conflagration . 
Mrs Veneering faintly remarks , as dinner opens , that many such days would be too much for her . 
'Veneering for ever ! 'We'll bring him in ! says Twemlow . 
'We'll bring him in ! say Boots and Brewer . 
Strictly speaking , it would be hard to show cause why they should not bring him in , Pocket Breaches having closed its little bargain , and there being no opposition . 
However , it is agreed that they must 'work' to the last , and that if they did not work , something indefinite would happen . 
In these inspiring moments , Brewer strikes out an idea which is the great hit of the day . 
, he'll now go down to the House of Commons and see how things look . 
'You couldn't do better , says Podsnap . 
Veneering expresses his inability ever to acknowledge this last service . 
Tears stand in Mrs Veneering's affectionate eyes . 
Boots shows envy , loses ground , and is regarded as possessing a second rate mind . 
They all crowd to the door , to see Brewer off . 
Brewer says to his driver , 'Now , is your horse pretty fresh ? eyeing the animal with critical scrutiny . 
Driver says he's as fresh as butter . 
'Put him along then , says Brewer 'House of Commons . 
Driver darts up , Brewer leaps in , they cheer him as he departs , and Mr Podsnap says , 'Mark my words , sir . 
That's a man of resource that's a man to make his way in life . 
When the time comes for Veneering to deliver a neat and appropriate stammer to the men of Pocket Breaches , only Podsnap and Twemlow accompany him by railway to that sequestered spot . 
In the moment of his taking his hat off , Podsnap , as per agreement made with Mrs Veneering , telegraphs to that wife and mother , 'He's up . 
Point the first is this . 
Veneering institutes an original comparison between the country , and a ship pointedly calling the ship , the Vessel of the State , and the Minister the Man at the Helm . 
Veneering's object is to let Pocket Breaches know that his friend on his right is a man of wealth . 
The telling fact that Twemlow is related to Lord Snigsworth , must be let off . 
In his honest indignation he would reply , Away with it ! But suppose I mounted higher in the social scale . 
Then , dinner is had at the Hotel with the legal gentleman , and then there are in due succession , nomination , and declaration . 
Finally Mr Podsnap telegraphs to Mrs Veneering , 'We have brought him in . 
Another gorgeous dinner awaits them on their return to the Veneering halls , and Lady Tippins awaits them , and Boots and Brewer await them . 
A touching little incident is related by Mrs Veneering , in the course of the evening . 
Mrs Veneering is habitually disposed to be tearful , and has an extra disposition that way after her late excitement . 
As I sat by Baby's crib , on the night before the election , Baby was very uneasy in her sleep . 
The Analytical chemist , who is gloomily looking on , has diabolical impulses to suggest 'Wind' and throw up his situation but represses them . 
'After an interval almost convulsive , Baby curled her little hands in one another and smiled . 
Whether the fairies made any mention of the five thousand pounds , and it disagreed with Baby , is not speculated upon . 
Poor little Twemlow , quite done up , is touched . 
and still continues touched after he is safely housed over the livery stable yard in Duke Street , Saint James's . 
But there , upon his sofa , a tremendous consideration breaks in upon the mild gentleman , putting all softer considerations to the rout . 
He comes upon me too late in life . 
I am not strong enough to bear him ! Chapter CUPID PROMPTED To use the cold language of the world , Mrs Alfred Lammle rapidly improved the acquaintance of Miss Podsnap . 
To use the warm language of Mrs Lammle , she and her sweet Georgiana soon became one in heart , in mind , in sentiment , in soul . 
rescue her poor little frosty toes from being rocked over she repaired to her friend , Mrs Alfred Lammle . 
Mrs Podsnap by no means objected . 
As a consciously 'splendid woman , accustomed to overhear herself so denominated by elderly osteologists pursuing their studies in dinner society , Mrs Podsnap could dispense with her daughter . 
Mr Podsnap , for his part , on being informed where Georgiana was , swelled with patronage of the Lammles . 
It gave him a better opinion of the discretion of the Lammles than he had heretofore held , as showing that they appreciated the value of the connexion . 
, that he could not endure a hint of disparagement of any friend or acquaintance of his . 
'How dare you ? he would seem to say , in such a case . 
'What do you mean ? I have licensed this person . 
This person has taken out MY certificate . 
Through this person you strike at me , Podsnap the Great . 
And it is not that I particularly care for the person's dignity , but that I do most particularly care for Podsnap's . 
Hence , if any one in his presence had presumed to doubt the responsibility of the Lammles , he would have been mightily huffed . 
Not that any one did , for Veneering , M. P. , was always the authority for their being very rich , and perhaps believed it . 
As indeed he might , if he chose , for anything he knew of the matter . 
Mr and Mrs Lammle's house in Sackville Street , Piccadilly , was but a temporary residence . 
It has done well enough , they informed their friends , for Mr Lammle when a bachelor , but it would not do now . 
So , they were always looking at palatial residences in the best situations , and always very nearly taking or buying one , but never quite concluding the bargain . 
Hereby they made for themselves a shining little reputation apart . 
In short , they suffered so many disappointments , that they began to think it would he necessary to build a palatial residence . 
And hereby they made another shining reputation many persons of their acquaintance becoming by anticipation dissatisfied with their own houses , and envious of the non existent Lammle structure . 
What Miss Podsnap was particularly charmed with , next to the graces of her friend , was the happiness of her friend's married life . 
This was frequently their theme of conversation . 
'I am sure , said Miss Podsnap , 'Mr Lammle is like a lover . 
At least I I should think he was . 
'Georgiana , darling ! said Mrs Lammle , holding up a forefinger , 'Take care ! 'Oh my goodness me ! exclaimed Miss Podsnap , reddening . 
'What have I said now ? 'Alfred , you know , hinted Mrs Lammle , playfully shaking her head . 
'You were never to say Mr Lammle any more , Georgiana . 
'Oh ! Alfred , then . 
I am glad it's no worse . 
I was afraid I had said something shocking . 
I am always saying something wrong to ma . 
'To me , Georgiana dearest ? 'No , not to you you are not ma . 
Mrs Lammle bestowed a sweet and loving smile upon her friend , which Miss Podsnap returned as she best could . 
They sat at lunch in Mrs Lammle's own boudoir . 
'And so , dearest Georgiana , Alfred is like your notion of a lover ? 'I don't say that , Sophronia , Georgiana replied , beginning to conceal her elbows . 
'I haven't any notion of a lover . 
The dreadful wretches that ma brings up at places to torment me , are not lovers . 
I only mean that Mr 'Again , dearest Georgiana ? 'That Alfred 'Sounds much better , darling . 
He always treats you with such delicate gallantry and attention . 
Now , don't he ? 'Truly , my dear , said Mrs Lammle , with a rather singular expression crossing her face . 
'I believe that he loves me , fully as much as I love him . 
'Oh , what happiness ! exclaimed Miss Podsnap . 
'Please don't ! I assure you , Sophronia , that I only praise Alfred , because he is your husband and so fond of you . 
Sophronia's glance was as if a rather new light broke in upon her . 
What I insinuated was , that my Georgiana's little heart was growing conscious of a vacancy . 
'No , no , no , said Georgiana . 
'I wouldn't have anybody say anything to me in that way for I don't know how many thousand pounds . 
'In what way , my Georgiana ? inquired Mrs Lammle , still smiling coolly with her eyes upon her lunch , and her eyebrows raised . 
'YOU know , returned poor little Miss Podsnap . 
'I think I should go out of my mind , Sophronia , with vexation and shyness and detestation , if anybody did . 
It's enough for me to see how loving you and your husband are . 
I couldn't bear to have anything of that sort going on with myself . 
I should beg and pray to to have the person taken away and trampled upon . 
Ah ! here was Alfred . 
'What is this about husbands and detestations ? inquired the captivating Alfred . 
'Then I may go on though if you had been here but a moment or two sooner , you would have heard your praises sounded by Georgiana . 
'Only , if they were to be called praises at all which I really don't think they were , explained Miss Podsnap in a flutter , 'for being so devoted to Sophronia . 
'My life ! and kissed her hand . 
In return for which she kissed his watch chain . 
'But it was not I who was to be taken away and trampled upon , I hope ? said Alfred , drawing a seat between them . 
'Ask Georgiana , my soul , replied his wife . 
Alfred touchingly appealed to Georgiana . 
'Oh , it was nobody , replied Miss Podsnap . 
'You dear one ! And I anything that YOU told me . 
'You do , my darling that I came into the room all but uttering young Fledgeby's name . 
Tell Georgiana , dearest , about young Fledgeby . 
'Oh no , don't ! Please don't ! cried Miss Podsnap , putting her fingers in her ears . 
Oh do do do say somebody else ! Not Georgiana Podsnap . 
So this young Fledgeby goes to that Alfred Lammle and says 'Oh ple e e ease don't ! Georgiana , as if the supplication were being squeezed out of her by powerful compression . 
'I so hate him for saying it ! 'For saying what , my dear ? laughed Mrs Lammle . 
'Oh , I don't know what he said , cried Georgiana wildly , 'but I hate him all the same for saying it . 
'My dear , said Mrs Lammle , always laughing in her most captivating way , 'the poor young fellow only says that he is stricken all of a heap . 
'Oh , what shall I ever do ! interposed Georgiana . 
'Oh my goodness what a Fool he must be ! And implores to be asked to dinner , and to make a fourth at the play another time . 
And so he dines to morrow and goes to the Opera with us . 
The happy pair being left together , Mrs Lammle said to her husband 'If I understand this girl , sir , your dangerous fascinations have produced some effect upon her . 
I mention the conquest in good time because I apprehend your scheme to be more important to you than your vanity . 
There was a mirror on the wall before them , and her eyes just caught him smirking in it . 
She gave the reflected image a look of the deepest disdain , and the image received it in the glass . 
Next moment they quietly eyed each other , as if they , the principals , had had no part in that expressive transaction . 
It may have been that Mrs Lammle tried in some manner to excuse her conduct to herself by depreciating the poor little victim of whom she spoke with acrimonious contempt . 
It may have been too that in this she did not quite succeed , for it is very difficult to resist confidence , and she knew she had Georgiana's . 
Nothing more was said between the happy pair . 
Perhaps conspirators who have once established an understanding , may not be over fond of repeating the terms and objects of their conspiracy . 
Next day came came Georgiana and came Fledgeby . 
Georgiana had by this time seen a good deal of the house and its frequenters . 
Between the room and the men there were strong points of general resemblance . 
They were all feverish , boastful , and indefinably loose and they all ate and drank a great deal and made bets in eating and drinking . 
They seemed to divide the world into two classes of people people who were making enormous fortunes , and people who were being enormously ruined . 
who were for ever demonstrating to the rest , with gold pencil cases which they could hardly hold because of the big rings on their forefingers , how money was to be made . 
Young Fledgeby was none of these . 
, and prone to self examination in the articles of whisker and moustache . 
While feeling for the whisker that he anxiously expected , Fledgeby underwent remarkable fluctuations of spirits , ranging along the whole scale from confidence to despair . 
Not so was Fledgeby seen on this occasion . 
the honorary title of Fascination Fledgeby . 
'Warm weather , Mrs Lammle , said Fascination Fledgeby . 
Mrs Lammle thought it scarcely as warm as it had been yesterday . 
'Perhaps not , said Fascination Fledgeby , with great quickness of repartee 'but I expect it will be devilish warm to morrow . 
He threw off another little scintillation . 
'Been out to day , Mrs Lammle ? Mrs Lammle answered , for a short drive . 
'Some people , said Fascination Fledgeby , 'are accustomed to take long drives but it generally appears to me that if they make 'em too long , they overdo it . 
Being in such feather , he might have surpassed himself in his next sally , had not Miss Podsnap been announced . 
Mrs Lammle flew to embrace her darling little Georgy , and when the first transports were over , presented Mr Fledgeby . 
So , Mr and Mrs Alfred Lammle had to prompt , and this is how they prompted . 
'Georgiana , said Mr Lammle , low and smiling , and sparkling all over , like a harlequin 'you are not in your usual spirits . 
Why are you not in your usual spirits , Georgiana ? Georgiana faltered that she was much the same as she was in general she was not aware of being different . 
'Not aware of being different ! retorted Mr Alfred Lammle . 
'Now , I will be judged , said Mr Lammle , raising his voice a little , 'by my friend Fledgeby . 
'Oh DON'T ! Miss Podsnap faintly ejaculated when Mrs Lammle took the prompt book . 
'I beg your pardon , Alfred , my dear , but I cannot part with Mr Fledgeby quite yet you must wait for him a moment . 
Mr Fledgeby and I are engaged in a personal discussion . 
Fledgeby must have conducted it on his side with immense art , for no appearance of uttering one syllable had escaped him . 
'A personal discussion , Sophronia , my love ? What discussion ? Fledgeby , I am jealous . 
What discussion , Fledgeby ? 'Shall I tell him , Mr Fledgeby ? asked Mrs Lammle . 
Trying to look as if he knew anything about it , Fascination replied , 'Yes , tell him . 
'We were discussing then , said Mrs Lammle , 'if you MUST know , Alfred , whether Mr Fledgeby was in his usual flow of spirits . 
'Precisely , exclaimed Mrs Lammle , 'what I said to Mr Fledgeby . 
Still , it wouldn't do . 
They would not look at one another . 
No , not even when the sparkling host proposed that the quartette should take an appropriately sparkling glass of wine . 
Georgiana looked from her wine glass at Mr Lammle and at Mrs Lammle but mightn't , couldn't , shouldn't , wouldn't , look at Mr Fledgeby . 
Fascination looked from his wine glass at Mrs Lammle and at Mr Lammle but mightn't , couldn't , shouldn't , wouldn't , look at Georgiana . 
Cupid must be brought up to the mark . 
The manager had put him down in the bill for the part , and he must play it . 
'Sophronia , my dear , said Mr Lammle , 'I don't like the colour of your dress . 
'I appeal , said Mrs Lammle , 'to Mr Fledgeby . 
'And I , said Mr Lammle , 'to Georgiana . 
'Georgy , my love , remarked Mrs Lammle aside to her dear girl , 'I rely upon you not to go over to the opposition . 
Fascination wished to know if the colour were not called rose colour ? Yes , said Mr Lammle actually he knew everything it was really rose colour . 
Fascination took rose colour to mean the colour of roses . 
Fascination had heard the term Queen of Flowers applied to the Rose . 
Similarly , it might be said that the dress was the Queen of Dresses . 
Though I tell her , in reply , that it would not have saved her , for whatever colour she had worn would have been Fledgeby's colour . 
'Have you heard this opera of to night , Fledgeby ? he asked , stopping very short , to prevent himself from running on into 'confound you . 
'Why no , not exactly , said Fledgeby . 
'In fact I don't know a note of it . 
'Neither do you know it , Georgy ? said Mrs Lammle . 
'N no , replied Georgiana , faintly , under the sympathetic coincidence . 
'No , I wasn't going to say that , said Fledgeby . 
'I was going to say Fate . 
Content perforce with this success for the time , Mr Lammle let Miss Podsnap out of the room , as if he were opening her cage door , and Mrs Lammle followed . 
to go and fetch it . 
This feat he performed , not only without failure , but even with the original embellishment of informing Miss Podsnap that green tea was considered bad for the nerves . 
Though there Miss Podsnap unintentionally threw him out by faltering , 'Oh , is it indeed ? How does it act ? Which he was not prepared to elucidate . 
The carriage announced , Mrs Lammle said 'Don't mind me , Mr Fledgeby , my skirts and cloak occupy both my hands , take Miss Podsnap . 
And he took her , and Mrs Lammle went next , and Mr Lammle went last , savagely following his little flock , like a drover . 
They sat in this order Mrs Lammle , Fascination Fledgeby , Georgiana , Mr Lammle . 
Mrs Lammle made leading remarks to Fledgeby , only requiring monosyllabic replies . 
Mr Lammle did the like with Georgiana . 
At times Mrs Lammle would lean forward to address Mr Lammle to this purpose . 
'Alfred , my dear , Mr Fledgeby very justly says , apropos of the last scene , that true constancy would not require any such stimulant as the stage deems necessary . 
To which Mrs Lammle would rejoin , 'Very true , Alfred but Mr Fledgeby points out , this . 
To which Alfred would demur 'Undoubtedly , Sophronia , but Georgiana acutely remarks , that . 
He is no such dolt as you suppose . 
When money is in question with that young fellow , he is a match for the Devil . 
'Is he a match for you ? 'He is . 
Almost as good a one as you thought me for you . 
He has no quality of youth in him , but such as you have seen to day . 
Touch him upon money , and you touch no booby then . 
He really is a dolt , I suppose , in other things but it answers his one purpose very well . 
'Has she money in her own right in any case ? 'Ay ! she has money in her own right in any case . 
You have done so well to day , Sophronia , that I answer the question , though you know I object to any such questions . 
You have done so well to day , Sophronia , that you must be tired . 
Chapter MERCURY PROMPTING Fledgeby deserved Mr Alfred Lammle's eulogium . 
He was the meanest cur existing , with a single pair of legs . 
going largely on four legs , and reason always on two , meanness on four legs never attains the perfection of meanness on two . 
Rather a curious speculation how Fledgehy would otherwise have disposed of his leisure until Doomsday . 
Fledgeby's mother offended her family by marrying Fledgeby's father . 
It is one of the easiest achievements in life to offend your family when your family want to get rid of you . 
Fledgeby's mother's family had been very much offended with her for being poor , and broke with her for becoming comparatively rich . 
Fledgeby's mother's family was the Snigsworth family . 
Among her pre matrimonial transactions with Fledgeby's father , Fledgeby's mother had raised money of him at a great disadvantage on a certain reversionary interest . 
The reversion falling in soon after they were married , Fledgeby's father laid hold of the cash for his separate use and benefit . 
Fledgeby's childhood had been , in consequence , a stormy one but the winds and the waves had gone down in the grave , and Fledgeby flourished alone . 
He lived in chambers in the Albany , did Fledgeby , and maintained a spruce appearance . 
Mr Alfred Lammle came round to the Albany to breakfast with Fledgeby . 
'What did you think of Georgiana ? asked Mr Lammle . 
'Why , I'll tell you , said Fledgeby , very deliberately . 
'You misunderstand me , said Fledgeby . 
'I don't mean I'll tell you that . 
I mean I'll tell you something else . 
'Tell me anything , old fellow ! 'Ah , but there you misunderstand me again , said Fledgeby . 
'I mean I'll tell you nothing . 
Mr Lammle sparkled at him , but frowned at him too . 
'Look here , said Fledgeby . 
'You're deep and you're ready . 
Whether I am deep or not , never mind . 
But I can do one thing , Lammle , I can hold my tongue . 
And I intend always doing it . 
'You are a long headed fellow , Fledgeby . 
'May be , or may not be . 
If I am a short tongued fellow , it may amount to the same thing . 
Now , Lammle , I am never going to answer questions . 
'My dear fellow , it was the simplest question in the world . 
It seemed so , but things are not always what they seem . 
I saw a man examined as a witness in Westminster Hall . 
Questions put to him seemed the simplest in the world , but turned out to be anything rather than that , after he had answered 'em . 
Then he should have held his tongue . 
If he had held his tongue he would have kept out of scrapes that he got into . 
'If I had held my tongue , you would never have seen the subject of my question , remarked Lammle , darkening . 
'Now , Lammle , said Fascination Fledgeby , calmly feeling for his whisker , 'it won't do . 
I won't be led on into a discussion . 
I can't manage a discussion . 
But I can manage to hold my tongue . 
'Can ? Mr Lammie fell back upon propitiation . 
'I should think you could ! Why , when these fellows of our acquaintance drink and you drink with them , the more talkative they get , the more silent you get . 
The more they let out , the more you keep in . 
'I don't object , Lammle , returned Fledgeby , with an internal chuckle , 'to being understood , though I object to being questioned . 
That certainly IS the way I do it . 
'If I hadn't known it of my Fledgeby , should I have proposed our little compact of advantage , to my Fledgeby ? 'Ah ! remarked Fascination , shaking his head slyly . 
'But I am not to be got at in that way . 
That sort of vanity don't pay , Lammle . 
No , no , no . 
Compliments only make me hold my tongue the more . 
, thrust his hands in his pockets , leaned back in his chair , and contemplated Fledgeby in silence . 
Then he slowly released his left hand from its pocket , and made that bush of his whiskers , still contemplating him in silence . 
I am not calculated to show to advantage under that sort of circumstances . 
I know very well you two did show to advantage , and managed capitally . 
But don't you on that account come talking to me as if I was your doll and puppet , because I am not . 
I don't like your coming over me with your Georgianas , as if you was her proprietor and mine too . 
'Well , when you are in the gracious mind to say anything about it of yourself , retorted Lammle , 'pray do . 
I have said you managed capitally . 
You and your wife both . 
If you'll go on managing capitally , I'll go on doing my part . 
'I crow ! exclaimed Lammle , shrugging his shoulders . 
All the rest keep on doing , and let Mrs Lammle keep on doing . 
Now , I have held my tongue when I thought proper , and I have spoken when I thought proper , and there's an end of that . 
And now the question is , proceeded Fledgeby , with the greatest reluctance , 'will you have another egg ? 'No , I won't , said Lammle , shortly . 
'Perhaps you're right and will find yourself better without it , replied Fascination , in greatly improved spirits . 
'To ask you if you'll have another rasher would be unmeaning flattery , for it would make you thirsty all day . 
Will you have some more bread and butter ? 'No , I won't , repeated Lammle . 
'Then I will , said Fascination . 
Your concentrated Fox is seldom comparable to your concentrated Ass in money breeding . 
'Came natural to you , eh ? said Fledgeby . 
'The sex were pleased to like me , sir , said Lammle sulkily , but with the air of a man who had not been able to help himself . 
'Made a pretty good thing of marrying , didn't you ? asked Fledgeby . 
, and tapped one tap upon his nose . 
'My late governor made a mess of it , said Fledgeby . 
'But Geor is the right name Georgina or Georgiana ? 'Georgiana . 
'I was thinking yesterday , I didn't know there was such a name . 
I thought it must end in ina . 
'Why ? 'Why , you play if you can the Concertina , you know , replied Fledgeby , meditating very slowly . 
'And you have when you catch it the Scarlatina . 
And you can come down from a balloon in a parach no you can't though . 
Well , say Georgeute I mean Georgiana . 
'You were going to remark of Georgiana ? Lammle moodily hinted , after waiting in vain . 
'I was going to remark of Georgiana , sir , said Fledgeby , not at all pleased to be reminded of his having forgotten it , 'that she don't seem to be violent . 
Don't seem to be of the pitching in order . 
'She has the gentleness of the dove , Mr Fledgeby . 
'Of course you'll say so , replied Fledgeby , sharpening , the moment his interest was touched by another . 
'But you know , the real look out is this what I say , not what you say . 
I say having my late governor and my late mother in my eye that Georgiana don't seem to be of the pitching in order . 
The respected Mr Lammle was a bully , by nature and by usual practice . 
Satisfied by what he saw there , he burst into a violent passion and struck his hand upon the table , making the china ring and dance . 
'You are a very offensive fellow , sir , cried Mr Lammle , rising . 
'You are a highly offensive scoundrel . 
What do you mean by this behaviour ? 'I say ! remonstrated Fledgeby . 
'You are a very offensive fellow sir , repeated Mr Lammle . 
'You are a highly offensive scoundrel ! 'I SAY , you know ! urged Fledgeby , quailing . 
'No you wouldn't , pleaded Fledgeby . 
'I am sure you'd think better of it . 
'I tell you what , Mr Fledgeby , said Lammle advancing on him . 
'Since you presume to contradict me , I'll assert myself a little . 
Give me your nose ! Fledgeby covered it with his hand instead , and said , retreating , 'I beg you won't ! 'Give me your nose , sir , repeated Lammle . 
, 'I beg , I beg , you won't . 
Give me your nose sir ! 'No ! Stop ! I beg your pardon , said Fledgeby , with humility . 
'What do you say , sir ? demanded Mr Lammle , seeming too furious to understand . 
'I beg your pardon , repeated Fledgeby . 
'Repeat your words louder , sir . 
The just indignation of a gentleman has sent the blood boiling to my head . 
'I say , repeated Fledgeby , with laborious explanatory politeness , 'I beg your pardon . 
'As a man of honour , said he , throwing himself into a chair , 'I am disarmed . 
Mr Fledgeby also took a chair , though less demonstratively , and by slow approaches removed his hand from his nose . 
'Lammle , he said sneakingly , when that was done , 'I hope we are friends again ? 'Mr Fledgeby , returned Lammle , 'say no more . 
'I must have gone too far in making myself disagreeable , said Fledgeby , 'but I never intended it . 
'Say no more , say no more ! Mr Lammle repeated in a magnificent tone . 
'Give me your' Fledgeby started 'hand . 
They shook hands , and on Mr Lammle's part , in particular , there ensued great geniality . 
The breakfast ended in a perfect understanding . 
Little recked Mr Podsnap of the traps and toils besetting his Young Person . 
Who giveth this woman to be married to this man ? I , Podsnap . 
A yellow overhanging plaster fronted house at which be stopped was quiet too . 
The blinds were all drawn down , and the inscription Pubsey and Co . 
seemed to doze in the counting house window on the ground floor giving on the sleepy street . 
Fledgeby knocked and rang , and Fledgeby rang and knocked , but no one came . 
Fledgeby crossed the narrow street and looked up at the house windows , but nobody looked down at Fledgeby . 
His ear at the keyhole seemed then , at last , to give him assurance that something stirred within . 
'Now you sir ! cried Fledgeby . 
'These are nice games ! He addressed an old Jewish man in an ancient coat , long of skirt , and wide of pocket . 
A venerable man , bald and shining at the top of his head , and with long grey hair flowing down at its sides and mingling with his beard . 
A man who with a graceful Eastern action of homage bent his head , and stretched out his hands with the palms downward , as if to deprecate the wrath of a superior . 
'What have you been up to ? said Fledgeby , storming at him . 
'Generous Christian master , urged the Jewish man , 'it being holiday , I looked for no one . 
'Holiday he blowed ! said Fledgeby , entering . 
'What have YOU got to do with holidays ? Shut the door . 
With his former action the old man obeyed . 
Fledgeby turned into the counting house , perched himself on a business stool , and cocked his hat . 
There were light boxes on shelves in the counting house , and strings of mock beads hanging up . 
There were samples of cheap clocks , and samples of cheap vases of flowers . 
His clothing was worn down to the rusty hue of the hat in the entry , but though he looked shabby he did not look mean . 
Now , Fledgeby , though not shabby , did look mean . 
'You have not told me what you were up to , you sir , said Fledgeby , scratching his head with the brim of his hat . 
'Sir , I was breathing the air . 
'In the cellar , that you didn't hear ? 'On the house top . 
'Upon my soul ! That's a way of doing business . 
'Sir , the old man represented with a grave and patient air , 'there must be two parties to the transaction of business , and the holiday has left me alone . 
'Ah ! Can't be buyer and seller too . 
That's what the Jews say ain't it ? 'At least we say truly , if we say so , answered the old man with a smile . 
'Your people need speak the truth sometimes , for they lie enough , remarked Fascination Fledgeby . 
'Sir , there is , returned the old man with quiet emphasis , 'too much untruth among all denominations of men . 
Rather dashed , Fascination Fledgeby took another scratch at his intellectual head with his hat , to gain time for rallying . 
'They hear of poor Jews often , and are very good to them . 
'Bother that ! returned Fledgeby . 
'You know what I mean . 
You'd persuade me if you could , that you are a poor Jew . 
I wish you'd confess how much you really did make out of my late governor . 
I should have a better opinion of you . 
The old man only bent his head , and stretched out his hands as before . 
'Don't go on posturing like a Deaf and Dumb School , said the ingenious Fledgeby , 'but express yourself like a Christian or as nearly as you can . 
'I had had sickness and misfortunes , and was so poor , said the old man , 'as hopelessly to owe the father , principal and interest . 
The son inheriting , was so merciful as to forgive me both , and place me here . 
He made a little gesture as though he kissed the hem of an imaginary garment worn by the noble youth before him . 
It was humbly done , but picturesquely , and was not abasing to the doer . 
But confess this , Riah who believes you to be poor now ? 'No one , said the old man . 
'There you're right , assented Fledgeby . 
'No one , repeated the old man with a grave slow wave of his head . 
'All scout it as a fable . 
'That's deuced good , that is ! said Fascination Fledgeby . 
'THAT'S all right , said Fascination Fledgeby . 
'They say , We know , Mr Riah , we know . 
We have but to look at you , and we know . 
Not a syllable of this reflection shaped itself in any scrap of Mr Fledgeby's breath , lest it should tend to put his servant's price up . 
'Look here , Riah , said Fledgeby , mollified by these self approving considerations . 
'I want to go a little more into buying up queer bills . 
Look out in that direction . 
'Sir , it shall be done . 
'Casting my eye over the accounts , I find that branch of business pays pretty fairly , and I am game for extending it . 
I like to know people's affairs likewise . 
'Sir , I will , promptly . 
And there's one thing more . 
Come to me with the books for periodical inspection as usual , at eight on Monday morning . 
Riah drew some folding tablets from his breast and noted it down . 
'To bury your money in , you old dodger ? 'A thumbnail's space of garden would hold the treasure I bury , master , said Riah . 
'Twelve shillings a week , even when they are an old man's wages , bury themselves . 
'I should like to know what you really are worth , returned Fledgeby , with whom his growing rich on that stipend and gratitude was a very convenient fiction . 
'But come ! Let's have a look at your garden on the tiles , before I go ! The old man took a step back , and hesitated . 
'Truly , sir , I have company there . 
'Have you , by George ! said Fledgeby 'I suppose you happen to know whose premises these are ? 'Sir , they are yours , and I am your servant in them . 
I hope for your admission that they can do no harm . 
Some final wooden steps conducted them , stooping under a low penthouse roof , to the house top . 
Riah stood still , and , turning to his master , pointed out his guests . 
Lizzie Hexam and Jenny Wren . 
For whom , perhaps with some old instinct of his race , the gentle Jew had spread a carpet . 
Another little book or two were lying near , and a common basket of common fruit , and another basket full of strings of beads and tinsel scraps . 
Taking her eyes off the book , to test her memory of something in it , Lizzie was the first to see herself observed . 
'This is my master , said Riah , stepping forward . 
'This , sir , pursued the old man , 'is a little dressmaker for little people . 
Explain to the master , Jenny . 
'Dolls that's all , said Jenny , shortly . 
'Very difficult to fit too , because their figures are so uncertain . 
You never know where to expect their waists . 
'Her friend , resumed the old man , motioning towards Lizzie 'and as industrious as virtuous . 
But that they both are . 
They are busy early and late , sir , early and late and in bye times , as on this holiday , they go to book learning . 
'Not much good to be got out of that , remarked Fledgeby . 
'Depends upon the person ! quoth Miss Wren , snapping him up . 
Our waste goes into the best of company , sir , on her rosy cheeked little customers . 
are presented at Court with it . 
Riah handed it to him . 
'How much for this now ? 'Two precious silver shillings , said Miss Wren . 
Riah confirmed her with two nods , as Fledgeby looked to him . 
A nod for each shilling . 
'Well , said Fledgeby , poking into the contents of the basket with his forefinger , 'the price is not so bad . 
You have got good measure , Miss What is it . 
'Try Jenny , suggested that young lady with great calmness . 
'You have got good measure , Miss Jenny but the price is not so bad . 
And you , said Fledgeby , turning to the other visitor , 'do you buy anything here , miss ? 'No , sir . 
'Nor sell anything neither , miss ? 'No , sir . 
Looking askew at the questioner , Jenny stole her hand up to her friend's , and drew her friend down , so that she bent beside her on her knee . 
'We are thankful to come here for rest , sir , said Jenny . 
'You see , you don't know what the rest of this place is to us does he , Lizzie ? It's the quiet , and the air . 
'The quiet ! repeated Fledgeby , with a contemptuous turn of his head towards the City's roar . 
'And the air ! with a 'Poof ! at the smoke . 
The little creature looked above her , holding up her slight transparent hand . 
'How do you feel when you are dead ? asked Fledgeby , much perplexed . 
'Oh , so tranquil ! cried the little creature , smiling . 
'Why did you call him back ? 'He was long enough coming , anyhow , grumbled Fledgeby . 
'But you are not dead , you know , said Jenny Wren . 
'Get down to life ! Mr Fledgeby seemed to think it rather a good suggestion , and with a nod turned round . 
As Riah followed to attend him down the stairs , the little creature called out to the Jew in a silvery tone , 'Don't be long gone . 
'And as good as handsome , answered Riah . 
'At all events , observed Fledgeby , with a dry whistle , 'I hope she ain't bad enough to put any chap up to the fastenings , and get the premises broken open . 
Keep your weather eye awake and don't make any more acquaintances , however handsome . 
Of course you always keep my name to yourself ? 'Sir , assuredly I do . 
'If they ask it , say it's Pubsey , or say it's Co , or say it's anything you like , but what it is . 
Appearances indicated that this establishment was a very recent institution . 
a little too blooming to be believed in , and the carpets and floorcloth seemed to rush at the beholder's face in the unusual prominency of their patterns . 
But the Temple , accustomed to tone down both the still life and the human life that has much to do with it , would soon get the better of all that . 
'Well ! said Eugene , on one side of the fire , 'I feel tolerably comfortable . 
I hope the upholsterer may do the same . 
'Why shouldn't he ? asked Lightwood , from the other side of the fire . 
'To be sure , pursued Eugene , reflecting , 'he is not in the secret of our pecuniary affairs , so perhaps he may be in an easy frame of mind . 
'We shall pay him , said Mortimer . 
'Shall we , really ? returned Eugene , indolently surprised . 
'You don't say so ! 'I mean to pay him , Eugene , for my part , said Mortimer , in a slightly injured tone . 
'Ah ! I mean to pay him too , retorted Eugene . 
'But then I mean so much that I that I don't mean . 
'Don't mean ? 'So much that I only mean and shall always only mean and nothing more , my dear Mortimer . 
'Calls the domestic virtues vagaries ! exclaimed Eugene , raising his eyes to the ceiling . 
'Do me the favour , said Eugene , getting out of his chair with much gravity , 'to come and inspect that feature of our establishment which you rashly disparage . 
In fact , I have an idea that I feel the domestic virtues already forming . 
Do me the favour to step into my bedroom . 
Secretaire , you see , and abstruse set of solid mahogany pigeon holes , one for every letter of the alphabet . 
To what use do I devote them ? I receive a bill say from Jones . 
I docket it neatly at the secretaire , JONES , and I put it into pigeonhole J. It's the next thing to a receipt and is quite as satisfactory to ME . 
Despite that pernicious assumption of lassitude and indifference , which had become his second nature , he was strongly attached to his friend . 
'Eugene , said he , 'if I could find you in earnest for a minute , I would try to say an earnest word to you . 
'An earnest word ? repeated Eugene . 
'The moral influences are beginning to work . 
'Well , I will , returned the other , 'though you are not earnest yet . 
'In this desire for earnestness , murmured Eugene , with the air of one who was meditating deeply , 'I trace the happy influences of the little flour barrel and the coffee mill . 
Eugene looked at him , but said nothing . 
'All this past summer , you have been withholding something from me . 
Before we entered on our boating vacation , you were as bent upon it as I have seen you upon anything since we first rowed together . 
But you cared very little for it when it came , often found it a tie and a drag upon you , and were constantly away . 
I don't ask what it is , as you have not told me but the fact is so . 
Say , is it not ? 'I give you my word of honour , Mortimer , returned Eugene , after a serious pause of a few moments , 'that I don't know . 
'Don't know , Eugene ? 'Upon my soul , don't know . 
I know less about myself than about most people in the world , and I don't know . 
'You have some design in your mind ? 'Have I ? I don't think I have . 
'At times I have thought yes at other times I have thought no . 
Now , I have been inclined to pursue such a subject now I have felt that it was absurd , and that it tired and embarrassed me . 
Absolutely , I can't say . 
Frankly and faithfully , I would if I could . 
You know what I am , my dear Mortimer . 
You know how dreadfully susceptible I am to boredom . 
You know that when I became enough of a man to find myself an embodied conundrum , I bored myself to the last degree by trying to find out what I meant . 
You know that at length I gave it up , and declined to guess any more . 
So much of what was fantastically true to his own knowledge of this utterly careless Eugene , mingled with the answer , that Mortimer could not receive it as a mere evasion . 
Besides , it was given with an engaging air of openness , and of special exemption of the one friend he valued , from his reckless indifference . 
'Come , dear boy ! said Eugene . 
'Let us try the effect of smoking . 
If it enlightens me at all on this question , I will impart unreservedly . 
They returned to the room they had come from , and , finding it heated , opened a window . 
Having lighted their cigars , they leaned out of this window , smoking , and looking down at the moonlight , as it shone into the court below . 
'No enlightenment , resumed Eugene , after certain minutes of silence . 
'I feel sincerely apologetic , my dear Mortimer , but nothing comes . 
'If nothing comes , returned Mortimer , 'nothing can come from it . 
So I shall hope that this may hold good throughout , and that there may be nothing on foot . 
'How , said Eugene , taking another little piece of earth , and shooting it with great precision at the former mark , 'how injurious to any one else ? 'I don't know . 
'And , said Eugene , taking , as he said the word , another shot , 'to whom else ? 'I don't know . 
Checking himself with another piece of earth in his hand , Eugene looked at his friend inquiringly and a little suspiciously . 
There was no concealed or half expressed meaning in his face . 
'Two belated wanderers in the mazes of the law , said Eugene , attracted by the sound of footsteps , and glancing down as he spoke , 'stray into the court . 
They examine the door posts of number one , seeking the name they want . 
Not finding it at number one , they come to number two . 
On the hat of wanderer number two , the shorter one , I drop this pellet . 
Hitting him on the hat , I smoke serenely , and become absorbed in contemplation of the sky . 
Both the wanderers looked up towards the window but , after interchanging a mutter or two , soon applied themselves to the door posts below . 
There they seemed to discover what they wanted , for they disappeared from view by entering at the doorway . 
'When they emerge , said Eugene , 'you shall see me bring them both down' and so prepared two pellets for the purpose . 
He had not reckoned on their seeking his name , or Lightwood's . 
But either the one or the other would seem to be in question , for now there came a knock at the door . 
'I am on duty to night , said Mortimer , 'stay you where you are , Eugene . 
Then , drawing in his head , he found the visitors to be young Charley Hexam and the schoolmaster both standing facing him , and both recognized at a glance . 
'You recollect this young fellow , Eugene ? said Mortimer . 
'Let me look at him , returned Wrayburn , coolly . 
'Oh , yes , yes . 
Laughingly , Wrayburn looked to Lightwood for an explanation of this odd visit . 
'He says he has something to say . 
'Surely it must be to you , Mortimer . 
'So I thought , but he says no . 
He says it is to you . 
'Yes , I do say so , interposed the boy . 
With consummate indolence , he turned to Mortimer , inquiring 'And who may this other person be ? 'I am Charles Hexam's friend , said Bradley 'I am Charles Hexam's schoolmaster . 
'My good sir , you should teach your pupils better manners , returned Eugene . 
Composedly smoking , he leaned an elbow on the chimneypiece , at the side of the fire , and looked at the schoolmaster . 
It was a cruel look , in its cold disdain of him , as a creature of no worth . 
The schoolmaster looked at him , and that , too , was a cruel look , though of the different kind , that it had a raging jealousy and fiery wrath in it . 
Very remarkably , neither Eugene Wrayburn nor Bradley Headstone looked at all at the boy . 
Through the ensuing dialogue , those two , no matter who spoke , or whom was addressed , looked at each other . 
There was some secret , sure perception between them , which set them against one another in all ways . 
'In some high respects , Mr Eugene Wrayburn , said Bradley , answering him with pale and quivering lips , 'the natural feelings of my pupils are stronger than my teaching . 
'In most respects , I dare say , replied Eugene , enjoying his cigar , 'though whether high or low is of no importance . 
You have my name very correctly . 
I can say Schoolmaster , which is a most respectable title . 
You are right , Schoolmaster . 
It was not the dullest part of this goad in its galling of Bradley Headstone , that he had made it himself in a moment of incautious anger . 
He tried to set his lips so as to prevent their quivering , but they quivered fast . 
'Mr Eugene Wrayburn , said the boy , 'I want a word with you . 
'You have given yourself much trouble , Schoolmaster , observed Eugene , blowing the feathery ash from his cigar . 
'I hope it may prove remunerative . 
'And I am glad to speak , pursued the boy , 'in presence of Mr Lightwood , because it was through Mr Lightwood that you ever saw my sister . 
Since then , you have seen my sister often . 
You have seen my sister oftener and oftener . 
And I want to know why ? 'Was this worth while , Schoolmaster ? murmured Eugene , with the air of a disinterested adviser . 
'So much trouble for nothing ? You should know best , but I think not . 
'I don't know , Mr Wrayburn , answered Bradley , with his passion rising , 'why you address me 'Don't you ? said Eugene . 
'Mr Wrayburn , proceeded the boy , 'we not only know this that I have charged upon you , but we know more . 
It has not yet come to my sister's knowledge that we have found it out , but we have . 
Then , what do we find ? What do we find , Mr Lightwood ? Why , we find that my sister is already being taught , without our knowing it . 
Ay , and taking pains , too , for I know what such pains are . 
And yet Bradley Headstone , used to the little audience of a school , and unused to the larger ways of men , showed a kind of exultation in it . 
'But I object to it , and that's enough . 
I am more important to to my sister than he thinks . 
As I raise myself , I intend to raise her she knows that , and she has to look to me for her prospects . 
Now I understand all this very well , and so does Mr Headstone . 
Mr Wrayburn encourages those notions to make himself of importance , and so she thinks she ought to be grateful to him , and perhaps even likes to be . 
Now I don't choose her to be grateful to him , or to be grateful to anybody but me , except Mr Headstone . 
And I tell Mr Wrayburn that if he don't take heed of what I say , it will be worse for her . 
Let him turn that over in his memory , and make sure of it . 
Worse for her ! A pause ensued , in which the schoolmaster looked very awkward . 
'May I suggest , Schoolmaster , said Eugene , removing his fast waning cigar from his lips to glance at it , 'that you can now take your pupil away . 
Lord knows none of us ever wanted him , any more than any of us will ever miss him . 
'Go down stairs , and leave me a moment , Hexam , he returned . 
'I assure you , Schoolmaster , replied Eugene , 'I don't think about you . 
'That's not true , returned the other 'you know better . 
'That's coarse , Eugene retorted 'but you DON'T know better . 
'Mr Wrayburn , at least I know very well that it would be idle to set myself against you in insolent words or overbearing manners . 
That lad who has just gone out could put you to shame in half a dozen branches of knowledge in half an hour , but you can throw him aside like an inferior . 
You can do as much by me , I have no doubt , beforehand . 
'But I am more than a lad , said Bradley , with his clutching hand , 'and I WILL be heard , sir . 
'As a schoolmaster , said Eugene , 'you are always being heard . 
That ought to content you . 
'But it does not content me , replied the other , white with passion . 
As he spoke , he tossed away the end of his cigar . 
'Passionate with you , sir , I admit I am . 
Passionate with you , sir , I respect myself for being . 
But I have not Devils for my pupils . 
'For your Teachers , I should rather say , replied Eugene . 
'Sir , my name is Bradley Headstone . 
'As you justly said , my good sir , your name cannot concern me . 
Now , what more ? 'This more . 
Eugene Wrayburn looked on at him , as if he found him beginning to be rather an entertaining study . 
'Mr Wrayburn , I desire to say something to you on my own part . 
'Come , come , Schoolmaster , returned Eugene , with a languid approach to impatience as the other again struggled with himself 'say what you have to say . 
And let me remind you that the door is standing open , and your young friend waiting for you on the stairs . 
Thus Bradley Headstone , with great effort and difficulty . 
'Is that all ? asked Eugene . 
'No , sir , said the other , flushed and fierce . 
'Is THAT all ? asked Eugene . 
I determined to tell you that you are not justified in these proceedings , and that they are injurious to his sister . 
'Are you her schoolmaster as well as her brother's ? Or perhaps you would like to be ? said Eugene . 
It was a stab that the blood followed , in its rush to Bradley Headstone's face , as swiftly as if it had been dealt with a dagger . 
'What do you mean by that ? was as much as he could utter . 
'A natural ambition enough , said Eugene , coolly . 
Far be it from me to say otherwise . 
'Do you throw my obscurity in my teeth , Mr Wrayburn ? 'That can hardly be , for I know nothing concerning it , Schoolmaster , and seek to know nothing . 
'You reproach me with my origin , said Bradley Headstone 'you cast insinuations at my bringing up . 
'Is THAT all ? 'No , sir . 
If you suppose that boy 'Who really will be tired of waiting , said Eugene , politely . 
'If you suppose that boy to be friendless , Mr Wrayburn , you deceive yourself . 
I am his friend , and you shall find me so . 
'And you will find HIM on the stairs , remarked Eugene . 
'You may have promised yourself , sir , that you could do what you chose here , because you had to deal with a mere boy , inexperienced , friendless , and unassisted . 
But I give you warning that this mean calculation is wrong . 
You have to do with a man also . 
You have to do with me . 
I will support him , and , if need be , require reparation for him . 
My hand and heart are in this cause , and are open to him . 
'And quite a coincidence the door is open , remarked Eugene . 
'I scorn your shifty evasions , and I scorn you , said the schoolmaster . 
'In the meanness of your nature you revile me with the meanness of my birth . 
I hold you in contempt for it . 
'A curious monomaniac , said Eugene . 
'My dear fellow , said Eugene , as he lighted another cigar , 'I fear my unexpected visitors have been troublesome . 
you would like to ask Tippins to tea , I pledge myself to make love to her . 
'Eugene , Eugene , Eugene , replied Mortimer , still pacing the room , 'I am sorry for this . 
And to think that I have been so blind ! 'How blind , dear boy ? inquired his unmoved friend . 
'What were your words that night at the river side public house ? said Lightwood , stopping . 
There is no better girl in all this London than Lizzie Hexam . 
There is no better among my people at home no better among your people . 
'Eugene , do you design to capture and desert this girl ? 'My dear fellow , no . 
'Do you design to marry her ? 'My dear fellow , no . 
'Do you design to pursue her ? 'My dear fellow , I don't design anything . 
I have no design whatever . 
I am incapable of designs . 
If I conceived a design , I should speedily abandon it , exhausted by the operation . 
'Oh Eugene , Eugene ! 'My dear Mortimer , not that tone of melancholy reproach , I entreat . 
, but let us sing that we give up guessing the riddle altogether . 
'Are you in communication with this girl , Eugene , and is what these people say true ? 'I concede both admissions to my honourable and learned friend . 
You are ruffled by the want of another cigar . 
Take one of these , I entreat . 
Light it at mine , which is in perfect order . 
Sensible of my deficiencies , I have surrounded myself with moral influences expressly meant to promote the formation of the domestic virtues . 
To those influences , and to the improving society of my friend from boyhood , commend me with your best wishes . 
But to enable me to do so , I must first have found out the troublesome conundrum long abandoned . 
Tapping his forehead and breast . 
'Riddle me , riddle me ree , perhaps you can't tell me what this may be ? No , upon my life I can't . 
This was quite according to rule , for the incompetent servant , by whomsoever employed , is always against his employer . 
What is in such wise true of the public master and servant , is equally true of the private master and servant all the world over . 
'You are aware of my being poor company , sir , replied Mr Venus , 'but be it so . 
It being so , here is Saturday evening come , and here is Mr Venus come , and ringing at the Bower gate . 
'No , Mr Wegg , replies Venus . 
'I am not above a parcel . 
'Above a parcel ! No ! says Wegg , with some dissatisfaction . 
But does not openly growl , 'a certain sort of parcel might be above you . 
'Here is your purchase , Mr Wegg , says Venus , politely handing it over , 'and I am glad to restore it to the source from whence it flowed . 
I only throw it out as a legal point . 
'Do you think so , Mr Wegg ? I bought you in open contract . 
'You can't buy human flesh and blood in this country , sir not alive , you can't , says Wegg , shaking his head . 
'Then query , bone ? 'As a legal point ? asks Venus . 
'Before I'd have given that packet into your hand without being paid my price for it . 
I don't pretend to know how the point of law may stand , but I'm thoroughly confident upon the point of fact . 
'Then I'd rather , Mr Wegg , you put it another time , penn'orth etically , is Mr Venus's retort , 'for I tell you candidly I don't like your little cases . 
told him he had got into a good thing . 
'But bear in mind , Mr Venus , that there's no gold without its alloy . 
Mix for yourself and take a seat in the chimbley corner . 
Will you perform upon a pipe , sir ? 'I am but an indifferent performer , sir , returns the other 'but I'll accompany you with a whiff or two at intervals . 
So , Mr Venus mixes , and Wegg mixes and Mr Venus lights and puffs , and Wegg lights and puffs . 
'And there's alloy even in this metal of yours , Mr Wegg , you was remarking ? 'Mystery , returns Wegg . 
'I don't like it , Mr Venus . 
I don't like to have the life knocked out of former inhabitants of this house , in the gloomy dark , and not know who did it . 
'Might you have any suspicions , Mr Wegg ? 'No , returns that gentleman . 
'I know who profits by it . 
'Similarly , resumes Wegg , 'I have observations as I can offer upon certain points and parties but I make no objections , Mr Venus . 
Here is an immense fortune drops from the clouds upon a person that shall be nameless . 
Here is a weekly allowance , with a certain weight of coals , drops from the clouds upon me . 
Which of us is the better man ? Not the person that shall be nameless . 
That's an observation of mine , but I don't make it an objection . 
I take my allowance and my certain weight of coals . 
That's the way it works . 
'It would be a good thing for me , if I could see things in the calm light you do , Mr Wegg . 
Him that shall be nameless is liable to be talked over . 
Him that shall be nameless , under such circumstances passes me by , and puts a talking over stranger above my head . 
I am banished to the Bower , to be found in it like a piece of furniture whenever wanted . 
Merit , therefore , don't win . 
That's the way it works . 
I observe it , because I can't help observing it , being accustomed to take a powerful sight of notice but I don't object . 
Ever here before , Mr Venus ? 'Not inside the gate , Mr Wegg . 
'You've been as far as the gate then , Mr Venus ? 'Yes , Mr Wegg , and peeped in from curiosity . 
'Did you see anything ? 'Nothing but the dust yard . 
And you're naturally of a polite disposition , you are . 
This last clause as a softening compliment to Mr Venus . 
You understand to what I allude , Mr Wegg ? To a certain written statement respecting not wishing to be regarded in a certain light . 
Since that , all is fled , save gall . 
'Not all , says Mr Wegg , in a tone of sentimental condolence . 
'Yes , sir , returns Venus , 'all ! The world may deem it harsh , but I'd quite as soon pitch into my best friend as not . 
'Why , you lost your balance , Mr Wegg , says Venus , handing him his pipe . 
IN which , again rubbing his head , 'I object to regard myself . 
'I'll bear it in memory , sir . 
'If you'll be so good . 
Mr Wegg slowly subdues his ironical tone and his lingering irritation , and resumes his pipe . 
'We were talking of old Mr Harmon being a friend of yours . 
'Not a friend , Mr Wegg . 
Only known to speak to , and to have a little deal with now and then . 
A very inquisitive character , Mr Wegg , regarding what was found in the dust . 
'Ah ! You found him secret ? returns Wegg , with a greedy relish . 
'He had always the look of it , and the manner of it . 
'Ah ! with another roll of his eyes . 
'As to what was found in the dust now . 
Did you ever hear him mention how he found it , my dear friend ? Living on the mysterious premises , one would like to know . 
'As a fellow man , Mr Venus mix again why neither ? 'Because I suppose , sir , that what was found , was found in the sorting and sifting . 
All the mounds are sorted and sifted ? 'You shall see 'em and pass your opinion . 
on the mysterious premises , says Wegg when the other has acted on his hospitable entreaty , 'one likes to know . 
Mr Wegg claps on his spectacles , and admiringly surveys Mr Venus from head to foot . 
It ain't that I object to being passed over for a stranger , though I regard the stranger as a more than doubtful customer . 
It ain't for the sake of making money , though money is ever welcome . 
It ain't for myself , though I am not so haughty as to be above doing myself a good turn . 
It's for the cause of the right . 
Mr Venus , passively winking his weak eyes both at once , demands 'What is , Mr Wegg ? 'The friendly move , sir , that I now propose . 
You see the move , sir ? 'Till you have pointed it out , Mr Wegg , I can't say whether I do or not . 
'If there IS anything to be found on these premises , let us find it together . 
Let us make the friendly move of agreeing to look for it together . 
Let us make the friendly move of agreeing to share the profits of it equally betwixt us . 
In the cause of the right . 
Thus Silas assuming a noble air . 
Say it was money , or plate , or jewellery , it would be as much ours as anybody else's . 
Mr Venus rubs an eyebrow , interrogatively . 
'In the cause of the right it would . 
Because it would be unknowingly sold with the mounds else , and the buyer would get what he was never meant to have , and never bought . 
And what would that be , Mr Venus , but the cause of the wrong ? 'Say it was papers , Mr Venus propounds . 
'According to what they contained we should offer to dispose of 'em to the parties most interested , replies Wegg , promptly . 
'In the cause of the right , Mr Wegg ? 'Always so , Mr Venus . 
If the parties should use them in the cause of the wrong , that would be their act and deed . 
I have an opinion of you , sir , to which it is not easy to give mouth . 
In this friendly move , sir , you will have a glorious object to rouse you . 
Mr Wegg then goes on to enlarge upon what throughout has been uppermost in his crafty mind the qualifications of Mr Venus for such a search . 
'While as to myself , says Wegg , 'I am not good at it . 
in the light of a fellow man , holily pledged in a friendly move to his brother man . 
, and anticipating his denunciation by the friendly movers to avenging justice . 
And this , Mr Wegg expressly points out , not at all for the sake of the reward though it would be a want of principle not to take it . 
To all this , Mr Venus , with his shock of dusty hair cocked after the manner of a terrier's ears , attends profoundly . 
'I see you have tried it by yourself , Mr Wegg , he says when he does speak . 
'You have found out the difficulties by experience . 
'No , it can hardly be said that I have tried it , replies Wegg , a little dashed by the hint . 
'I have just skimmed it . 
'And found nothing besides the difficulties ? Wegg shakes his head . 
'I scarcely know what to say to this , Mr Wegg , observes Venus , after ruminating for a while . 
'Say yes , Wegg naturally urges . 
'If I wasn't soured , my answer would be no . 
But being soured , Mr Wegg , and driven to reckless madness and desperation , I suppose it's Yes . 
The articles of the friendly move are then severally recited and agreed upon . 
They are but secrecy , fidelity , and perseverance . 
The Bower to be always free of access to Mr Venus for his researches , and every precaution to be taken against their attracting observation in the neighbourhood . 
'There's a footstep ! exclaims Venus . 
'Where ? cries Wegg , starting . 
St ! They are in the act of ratifying the treaty of friendly move , by shaking hands upon it . 
They softly break off , light their pipes which have gone out , and lean back in their chairs . 
No doubt , a footstep . 
It approaches the window , and a hand taps at the glass . 
'Come in ! calls Wegg meaning come round by the door . 
But the heavy old fashioned sash is slowly raised , and a head slowly looks in out of the dark background of night . 
But , leaning on the breast high window , and staring in out of the darkness , they find the visitor extremely embarrassing . 
Expecially Mr Venus who removes his pipe , draws back his head , and stares at the starer , as if it were his own Hindoo baby come to fetch him home . 
'Good evening , Mr Wegg . 
The yard gate lock should be looked to , if you please it don't catch . 
'Is it Mr Rokesmith ? falters Wegg . 
Don't let me disturb you . 
I am not coming in . 
I have only a message for you , which I undertook to deliver on my way home to my lodgings . 
I was in two minds about coming beyond the gate without ringing not knowing but you might have a dog about . 
'I wish I had , mutters Wegg , with his back turned as he rose from his chair . 
St ! Hush ! The talking over stranger , Mr Venus . 
'Is that any one I know ? inquires the staring Secretary . 
Passing the evening with me . 
'Oh ! I beg his pardon . 
Mr Boffin wishes you to know that he does not expect you to stay at home any evening , on the chance of his coming . 
It has occurred to him that he may , without intending it , have been a tie upon you . 
In future , if he should come without notice , he will take his chance of finding you , and it will be all the same to him if he does not . 
I undertook to tell you on my way . 
With that , and 'Good night , the Secretary lowers the window , and disappears . 
They listen , and hear his footsteps go back to the gate , and hear the gate close after him . 
'A double look , you mean , sir , rejoins Wegg , playing bitterly upon the word . 
Any amount of singular look for me , but not a double look ! That's an under handed mind , sir . 
'Do you say there's something against him ? Venus asks . 
'Something against him ? repeats Wegg . 
'But think how those stars steady me in the cause of the right against some that shall be nameless . 
It isn't that I bear malice . 
He felt the more resigned to it , forasmuch as Mrs Boffin enjoyed herself completely , and Miss Bella was delighted . 
That young lady was , no doubt , and acquisition to the Boffins . 
She was far too pretty to be unattractive anywhere , and far too quick of perception to be below the tone of her new career . 
, and caused her to experience great confusion under the glances of the more skilful performers engaged in those ice exercises . 
At Miss Bella's time of life it was not to be expected that she should examine herself very closely on the congruity or stability of her position in Mr Boffin's house . 
'An invaluable man is Rokesmith , said Mr Boffin , after some two or three months . 
'But I can't quite make him out . 
Neither could Bella , so she found the subject rather interesting . 
'May I ask how so , sir ? inquired Bella . 
'Well , my dear , said Mr Boffin , 'he won't meet any company here , but you . 
When we have visitors , I should wish him to have his regular place at the table like ourselves but no , he won't take it . 
'If he considers himself above it , said Miss Bella , with an airy toss of her head , 'I should leave him alone . 
'It ain't that , my dear , replied Mr Boffin , thinking it over . 
'He don't consider himself above it . 
'Perhaps he considers himself beneath it , suggested Bella . 
'If so , he ought to know best . 
'No , my dear nor it ain't that , neither . 
No , repeated Mr Boffin , with a shake of his head , after again thinking it over 'Rokesmith's a modest man , but he don't consider himself beneath it . 
'Then what does he consider , sir ? asked Bella . 
'Dashed if I know ! said Mr Boffin . 
'It seemed that first as if it was only Lightwood that he objected to meet . 
And now it seems to be everybody , except you . 
Oho ! thought Miss Bella . 
Be it this history's part , however , to leave them to unravel themselves . 
Ah ! but the eminently aristocratic mansion and Mrs Boffin's dressmaker had not come into play then . 
In spite of his seemingly retiring manners a very intrusive person , this Secretary and lodger , in Miss Bella's opinion . 
Always a light in his office room when we came home from the play or Opera , and he always at the carriage door to hand us out . 
I shall always be happy to execute any commands you may have in that direction . 
'Pray what may you mean , Mr Rokesmith ? inquired Miss Bella , with languidly drooping eyelids . 
'By home ? I mean your father's house at Holloway . 
'It would be a pleasure to me if you would make me the bearer of them . 
As you know , I come and go between the two houses every day . 
'You needn't remind me of that , sir . 
She was too quick in this petulant sally against 'Pa's lodger' and she felt that she had been so when she met his quiet look . 
'They don't send many what was your expression ? words of remembrance to me , said Bella , making haste to take refuge in ill usage . 
'They frequently ask me about you , and I give them such slight intelligence as I can . 
'I hope it's truly given , exclaimed Bella . 
'I hope you cannot doubt it , for it would be very much against you , if you could . 
'No , I do not doubt it . 
I deserve the reproach , which is very just indeed . 
I beg your pardon , Mr Rokesmith . 
'I should beg you not to do so , but that it shows you to such admirable advantage , he replied with earnestness . 
'Forgive me I could not help saying that . 
To return to what I have digressed from , let me add that perhaps they think I report them to you , deliver little messages , and the like . 
But I forbear to trouble you , as you never ask me . 
'I am going , sir , said Bella , looking at him as if he had reproved her , 'to see them tomorrow . 
'Is that , he asked , hesitating , 'said to me , or to them ? 'To which you please . 
'To both ? Shall I make it a message ? 'You can if you like , Mr Rokesmith . 
Message or no message , I am going to see them tomorrow . 
'Then I will tell them so . 
He lingered a moment , as though to give her the opportunity of prolonging the conversation if she wished . 
As she remained silent , he left her . 
Two incidents of the little interview were felt by Miss Bella herself , when alone again , to be very curious . 
The first was , that he unquestionably left her with a penitent air upon her , and a penitent feeling in her heart . 
The second was , that she had not an intention or a thought of going home , until she had announced it to him as a settled design . 
Then they repaired to the usual family room , to receive Miss Bella with a becoming show of indifference . 
The family room looked very small and very mean , and the downward staircase by which it was attained looked very narrow and very crooked . 
The little house and all its arrangements were a poor contrast to the eminently aristocratic dwelling . 
Bella really stood in natural need of a little help , and she got none . 
'I grew , myself , Mrs Wilfer sternly proclaimed , 'after I was married . 
'Very well , Ma , returned Lavvy , 'then I think you had much better have left it alone . 
'Hold ! I will not suffer this tone of levity . 
'My goodness me ! How are your Spoffins , then ? said Lavvy , 'since Ma so very much objects to your Boffins . 
'Impertinent girl ! Minx ! said Mrs wilfer , with dread severity . 
'No , Ma , I will not . 
Mrs Wilfer , having waved her gloves , became loftily pathetic . 
'But it was to be expected thus she spake . 
'A child of mine deserts me for the proud and prosperous , and another child of mine despises me . 
'Ma , Bella struck in , 'Mr and Mrs Boffin are prosperous , no doubt but you have no right to say they are proud . 
You must know very well that they are not . 
'Truly , returned Mrs Wilfer , courteously receiving the deserter , it would seem that we are required to think so . 
And this , Lavinia , is my reason for objecting to a tone of levity . 
, and your mother , are not on terms of intimacy . 
It is not for a moment to be supposed that she and her husband dare to presume to speak of this family as the Wilfers . 
I cannot therefore condescend to speak of them as the Boffins . 
No for such a tone call it familiarity , levity , equality , or what you will would imply those social interchanges which do not exist . 
'I don't want to speak of them here , replied Bella , suppressing indignation , and tapping her foot on the floor . 
'They are much too kind and too good to be drawn into these discussions . 
'Why put it so ? demanded Mrs Wilfer , with biting sarcasm . 
Why disguise the phrase ? 'Ma , said Bella , with one beat of her foot , 'you are enough to drive a saint mad , and so is Lavvy . 
'Unfortunate Lavvy ! cried Mrs Wilfer , in a tone of commiseration . 
'She always comes for it . 
I only wonder that our claims , contending against the superior claims of Mr and Mrs Boffin , had any weight . 
I feel I ought to be thankful for gaining so much , in competition with Mr and Mrs Boffin . 
But Fate has spared you this , R. W. , whatever it may have thought proper to inflict upon her ! Here Mrs Wilfer burst into tears . 
'I hate the Boffins ! protested Miss Lavinia . 
I don't care who objects to their being called the Boffins . 
I WILL call 'em the Boffins . 
There ! Here Miss Lavinia burst into tears . 
The front garden gate clanked , and the Secretary was seen coming at a brisk pace up the steps . 
We have nothing to conceal . 
If he sees these traces of emotion on our cheeks , let him construe them as he may . 
With those words she stalked out . 
In a few moments she stalked in again , proclaiming in her heraldic manner , 'Mr Rokesmith is the bearer of a packet for Miss Bella Wilfer . 
Mr Rokesmith followed close upon his name , and of course saw what was amiss . 
But he discreetly affected to see nothing , and addressed Miss Bella . 
'Mr Boffin intended to have placed this in the carriage for you this morning . 
Bella took it in her hand , and thanked him . 
'We have been quarrelling here a little , Mr Rokesmith , but not more than we used you know our agreeable ways among ourselves . 
You find me just going . 
Good bye , Lavvy ! and with a kiss for each Miss Bella turned to the door . 
Coming out ! and so delivered her over , like a female Lieutenant of the Tower relinquishing a State Prisoner . 
When Bella was seated in the carriage , she opened the little packet in her hand . 
It contained a pretty purse , and the purse contained a bank note for fifty pounds . 
Nor was the agitation by any means diminished , when the scout rushed back with the intelligence that the lady was 'a slap up gal in a bang up chariot . 
'My dear child ! he then panted , incoherently . 
'Good gracious me ! What a lovely woman you are ! I thought you had been unkind and forgotten your mother and sister . 
'I have just been to see them , Pa dear . 
'Oh ! and how how did you find your mother ? asked R. W. , dubiously . 
'Very disagreeable , Pa , and so was Lavvy . 
'They are sometimes a little liable to it , observed the patient cherub 'but I hope you made allowances , Bella , my dear ? 'No . 
I was disagreeable too , Pa we were all of us disagreeable together . 
But I want you to come and dine with me somewhere , Pa . 
'My dear , I say it with all my heart . 
But when his boyish figure bobbed away , its shabbiness and cheerful patience smote the tears out of her eyes . 
'All right , my dear . 
'You see , my dear , he explained , 'you really have become such a very lovely woman , that it ought to he a very quiet place . 
At length he suggested , 'Near the garden up by the Trinity House on Tower Hill . 
So , they were driven there , and Bella dismissed the chariot sending a pencilled note by it to Mrs Boffin , that she was with her father . 
'Now , Pa , attend to what I am going to say , and promise and vow to be obedient . 
'I promise and vow , my dear . 
that are to be got for money and you come back to me . 
'But , my dear Bella 'Take care , Pa ! pointing her forefinger at him , merrily . 
'You have promised and vowed . 
It's perjury , you know . 
There was water in the foolish little fellow's eyes , but she kissed them dry , and he bobbed away again . 
'Now , Pa , said Bella , hugging him close , 'take this lovely woman out to dinner . 
'Where shall we go , my dear ? 'Greenwich ! said Bella , valiantly . 
'And be sure you treat this lovely woman with everything of the best . 
I was always your little favourite at home , and you were always mine . 
'Yes , and I am afraid I was seldom or never as good as I ought to have been , Pa . 
But Lor , what a child you were ! What a companion you were ! 'Companion ? That's just what I want to be to day , Pa . 
'You are safe to succeed , my love . 
Your brothers and sisters have all in their turns been companions to me , to a certain extent , but only to a certain extent . 
'We ell , ye es , he returned , thinking about it , not quite satisfied with the phrase 'or perhaps I might say , if it was in him . 
Supposing , for instance , that a man wanted to be always marching , he would find your mother an inestimable companion . 
Supposing that the tune allotted to him was the Dead March in Saul . 
It would be a very suitable tune for particular occasions none better but it would be difficult to keep time with in the ordinary run of domestic transactions . 
For instance , if he took his supper after a hard day , to the Dead March in Saul , his food might be likely to sit heavy on him . 
'Poor Pa ! thought Bella , as she hung upon his arm . 
'Now , what I will say for you , my dear , the cherub pursued mildly and without a notion of complaining , 'is , that you are so adaptable . 
'Indeed I am afraid I have shown a wretched temper , Pa . 
I am afraid I have been very complaining , and very capricious . 
I seldom or never thought of it before . 
But when I sat in the carriage just now and saw you coming along the pavement , I reproached myself . 
'Not at all , my dear . 
Don't speak of such a thing . 
A happy and a chatty man was Pa in his new clothes that day . 
The little expedition down the river was delightful , and the little room overlooking the river into which they were shown for dinner was delightful . 
The park was delightful , the punch was delightful , the dishes of fish were delightful , the wine was delightful . 
'I suppose , my dear , said Pa after dinner , 'we may come to the conclusion at home , that we have lost you for good ? Bella shook her head . 
'And now , Pa , pursued Bella , 'I'll make a confession to you . 
I am the most mercenary little wretch that ever lived in the world . 
'I should hardly have thought it of you , my dear , returned her father , first glancing at himself and then at the dessert . 
'I understand what you mean , Pa , but it's not that . 
O o ! cried Bella , screwing the exclamation out of herself with a twist of her dimpled chin . 
That's the terrible part of it . 
When I was at home , and only knew what it was to be poor , I grumbled but didn't so much mind . 
When I was at home expecting to be rich , I thought vaguely of all the great things I would do . 
'It's your fancy , my dear . 
I am always avariciously scheming . 
'Lor ! But how ? 'I'll tell you , Pa . 
And besides , added Bella , laughing as she pointed a rallying finger at his face , 'because I have got you in my power . 
This is a secret expedition . 
If ever you tell of me , I'll tell of you . 
I'll tell Ma that you dined at Greenwich . 
'Well seriously , my dear , observed R. W. , with some trepidation of manner , 'it might be as well not to mention it . 
'I knew you wouldn't like it , sir ! So you keep my confidence , and I'll keep yours . 
But betray the lovely woman , and you shall find her a serpent . 
Now , you may give me a kiss , Pa , and I should like to give your hair a turn , because it has been dreadfully neglected in my absence . 
On each of these occasions the patient winced and winked . 
'I have made up my mind that I must have money , Pa . 
I feel that I can't beg it , borrow it , or steal it and so I have resolved that I must marry it . 
In consequence of which , I am always looking out for money to captivate . 
'My de a r Bella ! 'Yes , Pa , that is the state of the case . 
If ever there was a mercenary plotter whose thoughts and designs were always in her mean occupation , I am the amiable creature . 
I hate and detest being poor , and I won't be poor if I can marry money . 
Now you are deliciously fluffy , Pa , and in a state to astonish the waiter and pay the bill . 
'But , my dear Bella , this is quite alarming at your age . 
'I told you so , Pa , but you wouldn't believe it , returned Bella , with a pleasant childish gravity . 
'Isn't it shocking ? 'It would be quite so , if you fully knew what you said , my dear , or meant it . 
'Well , Pa , I can only tell you that I mean nothing else . 
Talk to me of love ! said Bella , contemptuously though her face and figure certainly rendered the subject no incongruous one . 
'Talk to me of fiery dragons ! But talk to me of poverty and wealth , and there indeed we touch upon realities . 
'My De ar , this is becoming Awful her father was emphatically beginning when she stopped him . 
Did you marry money ? 'You know I didn't , my dear . 
'I didn't mean that last touch , Pa it was only said in joke . 
Now mind ! You are not to tell of me , and I'll not tell of you . 
Fain to be satisfied with this concession from the lovely woman , R. W. rang the bell , and paid the bill . 
Last of all take notice , Pa , that it's not the fruit of any avaricious scheme . 
That done , she once more reminded him of their compact and gaily parted from him . 
Not so gaily , however , but that tears filled her eyes as he went away down the dark street . 
Not so gaily , but that the brilliant furniture seemed to stare her out of countenance as if it insisted on being compared with the dingy furniture at home . 
'Mrs Boffin will be very well pleased , said the Secretary in a perfectly composed way . 
Mr Sloppy being introduced , remained close to the door revealing in various parts of his form many surprising , confounding , and incomprehensible buttons . 
'I am glad to see you , said John Rokesmith , in a cheerful tone of welcome . 
'I have been expecting you . 
had been ailing , and he had waited to report him well . 
'Then he is well now ? said the Secretary . 
'No he ain't , said Sloppy . 
Mr Sloppy having shaken his head to a considerable extent , proceeded to remark that he thought Johnny 'must have took 'em from the Minders . 
Being asked what he meant , he answered , them that come out upon him and partickler his chest . 
Being requested to explain himself , he stated that there was some of 'em wot you couldn't kiver with a sixpence . 
Pressed to fall back upon a nominative case , he opined that they wos about as red as ever red could be . 
'But as long as they strikes out'ards , sir , continued Sloppy , 'they ain't so much . 
It's their striking in'ards that's to be kep off . 
John Rokesmith hoped the child had had medical attendance ? Oh yes , said Sloppy , he had been took to the doctor's shop once . 
And what did the doctor call it ? Rokesmith asked him . 
After some perplexed reflection , Sloppy answered , brightening , 'He called it something as wos wery long for spots . 
'Mrs Boffin will be sorry to hear this , said Rokesmith . 
'Mrs Higden said so , sir , when she kep it from her , hoping as Our Johnny would work round . 
'But I hope he will ? said Rokesmith , with a quick turn upon the messenger . 
'I hope so , answered Sloppy . 
'It all depends on their striking in'ards . 
The ungainly piece of honesty beamed and blushed as he said it , quite enraptured with the remembrance of having been serviceable . 
'Last night , said Sloppy , 'when I was a turning at the wheel pretty late , the mangle seemed to go like Our Johnny's breathing . 
And when Our Johnny gets his breathing again , I turns again , and we all goes on together . 
Sloppy had gradually expanded with his description into a stare and a vacant grin . 
'This is unfortunate , said Rokesmith . 
'I must go and break it to Mrs Boffin . 
Stay you here , Sloppy . 
Sloppy stayed there , staring at the pattern of the paper on the wall , until the Secretary and Mrs Boffin came back together . 
who was better worth staring at , it occurred to Sloppy , than the best of wall papering . 
'Ah , my poor dear pretty little John Harmon ! exclaimed Mrs Boffin . 
'Yes mum , said the sympathetic Sloppy . 
'You don't think he is in a very , very bad way , do you ? asked the pleasant creature with her wholesome cordiality . 
Put upon his good faith , and finding it in collision with his inclinations , Sloppy threw back his head and uttered a mellifluous howl , rounded off with a sniff . 
'So bad as that ! cried Mrs Boffin . 
'And Betty Higden not to tell me of it sooner ! 'I think she might have been mistrustful , mum , answered Sloppy , hesitating . 
'Of what , for Heaven's sake ? 'I think she might have been mistrustful , mum , returned Sloppy with submission , 'of standing in Our Johnny's light . 
There's so much trouble in illness , and so much expense , and she's seen such a lot of its being objected to . 
of its standing in Johnny's light , and might have tried to bring him through it unbeknownst . 
Sloppy knew his ground well . 
To conceal herself in sickness , like a lower animal to creep out of sight and coil herself away and die had become this woman's instinct . 
'Tell us , dear Mr Rokesmith , what to do for the best . 
He had already thought what to do , and the consultation was very short . 
He could pave the way , he said , in half an hour , and then they would go down to Brentford . 
'Pray take me , said Bella . 
Punctual to the time , appeared the carriage and the Secretary . 
He sat on the box , and Mr Sloppy graced the rumble . 
So , to the Three Magpies as before where Mrs Boffin and Miss Bella were handed out , and whence they all went on foot to Mrs Betty Higden's . 
Bearing these gifts , they raised the latch of Betty Higden's door , and saw her sitting in the dimmest and furthest corner with poor Johnny in her lap . 
'And how's my boy , Betty ? asked Mrs Boffin , sitting down beside her . 
'He's bad ! He's bad ! said Betty . 
'I begin to be afeerd he'll not be yours any more than mine . 
All others belonging to him have gone to the Power and the Glory , and I have a mind that they're drawing him to them leading him away . 
'No , no , no , said Mrs Boffin . 
'I don't know why else he clenches his little hand as if it had hold of a finger that I can't see . 
Look at it , said Betty , opening the wrappers in which the flushed child lay , and showing his small right hand lying closed upon his breast . 
'Is he asleep ? 'No , I think not . 
You're not asleep , my Johnny ? 'No , said Johnny , with a quiet air of pity for himself and without opening his eyes . 
'Here's the lady , Johnny . 
Johnny could bear the lady , with complete indifference , but not the horse . 
Opening his heavy eyes , he slowly broke into a smile on beholding that splendid phenomenon , and wanted to take it in his arms . 
As it was much too big , it was put upon a chair where he could hold it by the mane and contemplate it . 
Which he soon forgot to do . 
But , Johnny murmuring something with his eyes closed , and Mrs Boffin not knowing what , old Betty bent her ear to listen and took pains to understand . 
Instantly , and before another word could be spoken , the old woman started up with blazing eyes , and rushed at the door with the sick child . 
'Stand away from me every one of ye ! she cried out wildly . 
'I see what ye mean now . 
Let me go my way , all of ye . 
I'd sooner kill the Pretty , and kill myself ! 'Stay , stay ! said Rokesmith , soothing her . 
I know too much about it , sir . 
I've run from it too many a year . 
'There , there , there ! returned Mrs Boffin . 
'Come , come ! Say no more of it , Betty . 
It was a mistake , a mistake . 
Any one of us might have made it in your place , and felt just as you do . 
'The Lord bless ye ! said the old woman , stretching out her hand . 
'Is there really such a place ? asked the old woman , with a gaze of wonder . 
'Yes , Betty , on my word , and you shall see it . 
If my home was a better place for the dear boy , I'd take him to it but indeed indeed it's not . 
'You shall take him , returned Betty , fervently kissing the comforting hand , 'where you will , my deary . 
I am not so hard , but that I believe your face and voice , and I will , as long as I can see and hear . 
This victory gained , Rokesmith made haste to profit by it , for he saw how woefully time had been lost . 
Sloppy they left behind , relieving his overcharged breast with a paroxysm of mangling . 
At the Children's Hospital , the gallant steed , the Noah's ark , yellow bird , and the officer in the Guards , were made as welcome as their child owner . 
But the doctor said aside to Rokesmith , 'This should have been days ago . 
And at the bed's head was a coloured picture beautiful to see , representing as it were another Johnny seated on the knee of some Angel surely who loved little children . 
As Johnny murmured something in his placid admiration , the ministering women at his bed's head asked him what he said . 
It seemed that he wanted to know whether all these were brothers and sisters of his ? So they told him yes . 
It seemed then , that he wanted to know whether God had brought them all together there ? So they told him yes again . 
Johnny's powers of sustaining conversation were as yet so very imperfectly developed , even in a state of health , that in sickness they were little more than monosyllabic . 
A very little brother lying in the next bed with a broken leg , was so enchanted by this spectacle that his delight exalted its enthralling interest and so came rest and sleep . 
'I see you are not afraid to leave the dear child here , Betty , whispered Mrs Boffin . 
Most willingly , most thankfully , with all my heart and soul . 
The family whom God had brought together were not all asleep , but were all quiet . 
From bed to bed , a light womanly tread and a pleasant fresh face passed in the silence of the night . 
The doctor came in too , to see how it fared with Johnny . 
And he and Rokesmith stood together , looking down with compassion on him . 
'What is it , Johnny ? Rokesmith was the questioner , and put an arm round the poor baby as he made a struggle . 
'Him ! said the little fellow . 
Having now bequeathed all he had to dispose of , and arranged his affairs in this world , Johnny , thus speaking , left it . 
Chapter A SUCCESSOR Some of the Reverend Frank Milvey's brethren had found themselves exceedingly uncomfortable in their minds , because they were required to bury the dead too hopefully . 
calculated to trouble their consciences rather more if they would think as much about them , held his peace . 
He only learned that the more he himself knew , in his little limited human way , the better he could distantly imagine what Omniscience might know . 
Reading them over Johnny , he thought of his own six children , but not of his poverty , and read them with dimmed eyes . 
And very seriously did he and his bright little wife , who had been listening , look down into the small grave and walk home arm in arm . 
There was grief in the aristocratic house , and there was joy in the Bower . 
John Rokesmith's manner towards Mrs Boffin at this time , was more the manner of a young man towards a mother , than that of a Secretary towards his employer's wife . 
'But I do thank you , Mr Rokesmith , said Mrs Boffin , 'and I thank you most kindly . 
You have loved children well , Mr Boffin has told me . 
Not a bit better than he has , but that's his way he puts all the good upon me . 
You speak rather sadly , Mr Rokesmith . 
'Do I ? 'It sounds to me so . 
Were you one of many children ? He shook his head . 
'An only child ? 'No there was another . 
'Father or mother alive ? 'Dead . 
'And the rest of your relations ? 'Dead if I ever had any living . 
I never heard of any . 
At this point of the dialogue Bella came in with a light step . 
She paused at the door a moment , hesitating whether to remain or retire perplexed by finding that she was not observed . 
'Now , don't mind an old lady's talk , said Mrs Boffin , 'but tell me . 
Are you quite sure , Mr Rokesmith , that you have never had a disappointment in love ? 'Quite sure . 
Why do you ask me ? 'Why , for this reason . 
Sometimes you have a kind of kept down manner with you , which is not like your age . 
You can't be thirty ? 'I am not yet thirty . 
But I want my Noddy to consult with us . 
Would somebody be so good as find my Noddy for me ? Rokesmith departed on that errand , and presently returned accompanied by Mr Boffin at his jog trot . 
Bella felt a little vague trepidation as to the subject matter of this same consultation , until Mrs Boffin announced it . 
Now , you see , what I want to talk about , is this . 
, offering to find me another little child to name and educate and bring up . 
This has set me thinking . 
This has set me thinking , I say , repeated Mrs Boffin , cordially beaming under the influence of her husband's compliment , 'and I have thought two things . 
First of all , that I have grown timid of reviving John Harmon's name . 
It's an unfortunate name , and I fancy I should reproach myself if I gave it to another dear child , and it proved again unlucky . 
'The name has always been unfortunate . 
It has now this new unfortunate association connected with it . 
The name has died out . 
I think I should feel as if the name had become endeared to me , and I had no right to use it so . 
'And that's your opinion ? remarked Mr Boffin , observant of the Secretary's face and again addressing him . 
'I say again , it is a matter of feeling , returned the Secretary . 
'I think Miss Wilfer's feeling very womanly and pretty . 
'Now , give us your opinion , Noddy , said Mrs Boffin . 
'My opinion , old lady , returned the Golden Dustman , 'is your opinion . 
'Then , said Mrs Boffin , 'we agree not to revive John Harmon's name , but to let it rest in the grave . 
'Hear , hear ! cried Mr Boffin . 
Ancoar ! 'No , not Ancoar , Noddy , my dear , returned Mrs Boffin , 'because I am going to say something else . 
I meant that , I am sure , as I much as I still mean it . 
But this little death has made me ask myself the question , seriously , whether I wasn't too bent upon pleasing myself . 
He interested you very much . 
However , that don't come in question now , because we have done with the name . 
'Laid it up as a remembrance , suggested Bella , musingly . 
'Much better said , my dear laid it up as a remembrance . 
'Not pretty then ? said Bella . 
'No , returned Mrs Boffin , stoutly . 
'Nor prepossessing then ? said Bella . 
'No , returned Mrs Boffin . 
That's as it may happen . 
If I am very much in earnest and quite determined to be unselfish , let me take care of HIM . 
Here the footman whose feelings had been hurt on the former occasion , appeared , and crossing to Rokesmith apologetically announced the objectionable Sloppy . 
The four members of Council looked at one another , and paused . 
'Shall he be brought here , ma'am ? asked Rokesmith . 
'Yes , said Mrs Boffin . 
Whereupon the footman disappeared , reappeared presenting Sloppy , and retired much disgusted . 
Thus set forth , with the additional embellishments of a very little tail to his coat , and a yawning gulf at his waistband , Sloppy stood confessed . 
'And how is Betty , my good fellow ? Mrs Boffin asked him . 
'Thankee , mum , said Sloppy , 'she do pretty nicely , and sending her dooty and many thanks for the tea and all faviours and wishing to know the family's healths . 
'Have you just come , Sloppy ? 'Yes , mum . 
'Then you have not had your dinner yet ? 'No , mum . 
But I mean to it . 
'How are the two poor little Minders ? asked Mrs Boffin . 
'Striking right out , mum , and coming round beautiful . 
Mrs Boffin looked on the other three members of Council , and then said , beckoning with her finger 'Sloppy . 
Mrs Higden goes before all . 
None can ever be better friends to me than Mrs Higden's been . 
And she must be turned for , must Mrs Higden . 
'You are as right as right can be , Sloppy , said Mrs Boffin 'and far be it from me to tell you otherwise . 
It shall be seen to . 
I don't want no sleep , I don't . 
Or even if I any ways should want a wink or two , added Sloppy , after a moment's apologetic reflection , 'I could take 'em turning . 
Love , though said to be afflicted with blindness , is a vigilant watchman , and Miss Peecher kept him on double duty over Mr Bradley Headstone . 
Though all unseen , and unsuspected by the pupils , Bradley Headstone even pervaded the school exercises . 
Did History chronicle a king of men ? Behold him in pepper and salt pantaloons , with his watch guard round his neck . 
Were copies to be written ? In capital B's and H's most of the girls under Miss Peecher's tuition were half a year ahead of every other letter in the alphabet . 
'Well , Mary Anne ? 'She is named Lizzie , ma'am . 
'She can hardly be named Lizzie , I think , Mary Anne , returned Miss Peecher , in a tunefully instructive voice . 
Whether there were any Lizzies in the early Christian Church must be considered very doubtful , very doubtful . 
Miss Peecher was exceedingly sage here . 
'Speaking correctly , we say , then , that Hexam's sister is called Lizzie not that she is named so . 
Do we not , Mary Anne ? 'We do , Miss Peecher . 
'In Church Street , Smith Square , by Mill Bank , ma'am . 
'In Church Street , Smith Square , by Mill Bank , repeated Miss Peecher , as if possessed beforehand of the book in which it was written . 
And what occupation does this young woman pursue , Mary Anne ? Take time . 
'She has a place of trust at an outfitter's in the City , ma'am . 
'Oh ! said Miss Peecher , pondering on it but smoothly added , in a confirmatory tone , 'At an outfitter's in the City . 
Ye es ? 'And Charley Mary Anne was proceeding , when Miss Peecher stared . 
'I mean Hexam , Miss Peecher . 
'I should think you did , Mary Anne . 
I am glad to hear you do . 
'You have answered very well , Mary Anne . 
You are forming an excellent habit of arranging your thoughts clearly . 
'Good evening , Miss Peecher , he said , pursuing the shadow , and taking its place . 
'Good evening , Mr Headstone . 
Mary Anne , a chair . 
'Thank you , said Bradley , seating himself in his constrained manner . 
'This is but a flying visit . 
I have looked in , on my way , to ask a kindness of you as a neighbour . 
'Did you say on your way , Mr Headstone ? asked Miss Peecher . 
'On my way to where I am going . 
'Church Street , Smith Square , by Mill Bank , repeated Miss Peecher , in her own thoughts . 
'Charley Hexam has gone to get a book or two he wants , and will probably be back before me . 
As we leave my house empty , I took the liberty of telling him I would leave the key here . 
Would you kindly allow me to do so ? 'Certainly , Mr Headstone . 
Going for an evening walk , sir ? 'Partly for a walk , and partly for on business . 
'Business in Church Street , Smith Square , by Mill Bank , repeated Miss Peecher to herself . 
'Having said which , pursued Bradley , laying his door key on the table , 'I must be already going . 
There is nothing I can do for you , Miss Peecher ? 'Thank you , Mr Headstone . 
In which direction ? 'In the direction of Westminster . 
'Mill Bank , Miss Peecher repeated in her own thoughts once again . 
'No , thank you , Mr Headstone I'll not trouble you . 
'You couldn't trouble me , said the schoolmaster . 
She was right touching his destination . 
It had been an immoveable idea since he first set eyes upon her . 
The schoolmaster went his way , brooding and brooding , and a sense of being vanquished in a struggle might have been pieced out of his worried face . 
He appeared before the dolls' dressmaker , sitting alone at her work . 
'I will wait , if you please , for I want to speak to her . 
'Do you ? returned Miss Wren . 
I can't bear you to call her that , returned Miss Wren , snapping her fingers in a volley of impatient snaps , 'for I don't like Hexam . 
Miss Wren wrinkled her nose , to express dislike . 
The way with all of you . 
'The way with all of us ? Then you don't like ME ? 'So so , replied Miss Wren , with a shrug and a laugh . 
'Don't know much about you . 
'But I was not aware it was the way with all of us , said Bradley , returning to the accusation , a little injured . 
'Won't you say , some of us ? 'Meaning , returned the little creature , 'every one of you , but you . 
Hah ! Now look this lady in the face . 
'You don't say so ! retorted Miss Wren , hitching her chin . 
'But on whose account ? 'Her own . 
'O Mrs T. ! exclaimed Miss Wren . 
'You hear him ! 'To reason with her , pursued Bradley , half humouring what was present , and half angry with what was not present 'for her own sake . 
'Oh Mrs T. ! exclaimed the dressmaker . 
'For her own sake , repeated Bradley , warming , 'and for her brother's , and as a perfectly disinterested person . 
'Really , Mrs T. , remarked the dressmaker , 'since it comes to this , we must positively turn you with your face to the wall . 
'Here's a perfectly disinterested person , Lizzie dear , said the knowing Miss Wren , 'come to talk with you , for your own sake and your brother's . 
'She can do no better than stay where she is , returned Lizzie , releasing the hand , and laying her own lightly on Miss Jenny's curls . 
'Strictly speaking , said he , 'I come from Charley , because I left him only a little while ago but I am not commissioned by Charley . 
I come of my own spontaneous act . 
With her elbows on her bench , and her chin upon her hands , Miss Jenny Wren sat looking at him with a watchful sidelong look . 
Lizzie , in her different way , sat looking at him too . 
, has confided the whole of this matter to me . 
My allusion was to this matter of your having put aside your brother's plans for you , and given the preference to those of Mr I believe the name is Mr Eugene Wrayburn . 
He made this point of not being certain of the name , with another uneasy look at her , which dropped like the last . 
Nothing being said on the other side , he had to begin again , and began with new embarrassment . 
'Your brother's plans were communicated to me when he first had them in his thoughts . 
That done , she fell into her former attitude . 
I should have had inexpressible pleasure , I should have taken inexpressible interest , in promoting it . 
Therefore I must acknowledge that when your brother was disappointed , I too was disappointed . 
I wish to avoid reservation or concealment , and I fully acknowledge that . 
He appeared to have encouraged himself by having got so far . 
'I am a man of strong feelings , and I have strongly felt this disappointment . 
I do strongly feel it . 
I don't show what I feel some of us are obliged habitually to keep it down . 
But to return to your brother . 
with Mr Eugene Wrayburn , if that be the name . 
He did so , quite ineffectually . 
As any one not blinded to the real character of Mr Mr Eugene Wrayburn would readily suppose . 
He looked at Lizzie again , and held the look . 
And his face turned from burning red to white , and from white back to burning red , and so for the time to lasting deadly white . 
'Finally , I resolved to come here alone , and appeal to you . 
Lizzie Hexam had changed colour when those changes came over him , and her face now expressed some anger , more dislike , and even a touch of fear . 
But she answered him very steadily . 
'I cannot doubt , Mr Headstone , that your visit is well meant . 
You have been so good a friend to Charley that I have no right to doubt it . 
I have nothing to tell Charley , but that I accepted the help to which he so much objects before he made any plans for me or certainly before I knew of any . 
It was considerately and delicately offered , and there were reasons that had weight with me which should be as dear to Charley as to me . 
I have no more to say to Charley on this subject . 
His lips trembled and stood apart , as he followed this repudiation of himself and limitation of her words to her brother . 
So much so , that we have said to her we hope in a very little while to be able to go on by ourselves . 
Charley knows about teachers , and I should also have told him , for his satisfaction , that ours comes from an institution where teachers are regularly brought up . 
'Thank you , Mr Headstone . 
After a while he took out his handkerchief and wiped his forehead and hands . 
'There is only one thing more I had to say , but it is the most important . 
There is a reason against this matter , there is a personal relation concerned in this matter , not yet explained to you . 
It might I don't say it would it might induce you to think differently . 
To proceed under the present circumstances is out of the question . 
'Limit my meaning for the present , he interrupted , 'to the whole case being submitted to you in another interview . 
'What case , Mr Headstone ? What is wanting to it ? 'You you shall be informed in the other interview . 
The dolls' dressmaker sat with her attitude unchanged , eyeing the door by which he had departed , until Lizzie pushed her bench aside and sat down near her . 
HE wouldn't do to be trotted about and made useful . 
He'd take fire and blow up while he was about it . 
'And so you would be rid of him , said Lizzie , humouring her . 
'Not so easily , returned Miss Wren . 
'He wouldn't blow up alone . 
He'd carry me up with him . 
I know his tricks and his manners . 
'Would he want to hurt you , do you mean ? asked Lizzie . 
'Mightn't exactly want to do it , my dear , returned Miss Wren 'but a lot of gunpowder among lighted lucifer matches in the next room might almost as well be here . 
'He is a very strange man , said Lizzie , thoughtfully . 
'I wish he was so very strange a man as to be a total stranger , answered the sharp little thing . 
'Not now , Lizzie , dear , said Jenny 'let us have a talk by the fire . 
With those words , she in her turn loosened her friend's dark hair , and it dropped of its own weight over her bosom , in two rich masses . 
'Let us have a talk , said Jenny , 'about Mr Eugene Wrayburn . 
'Why about Mr Wrayburn ? Lizzie asked . 
'For no better reason than because I'm in the humour . 
I wonder whether he's rich ! 'No , not rich . 
'Poor ? 'I think so , for a gentleman . 
'Ah ! To be sure ! Yes , he's a gentleman . 
'When He turns up , he shan't be a gentleman I'll very soon send him packing , if he is . 
However , he's not Mr Wrayburn I haven't captivated HIM . 
I wonder whether anybody has , Lizzie ! 'It is very likely . 
'Is it very likely ? I wonder who ! 'Is it not very likely that some lady has been taken by him , and that he may love her dearly ? 'Perhaps . 
What would you think of him , Lizzie , if you were a lady ? 'I a lady ! she repeated , laughing . 
'Such a fancy ! 'Yes . 
But say just as a fancy , and for instance . 
'I a lady ! I , a poor girl who used to row poor father on the river . 
I , who had rowed poor father out and home on the very night when I saw him for the first time . 
'I a lady ! Lizzie went on in a low voice , with her eyes upon the fire . 
'Too much , Jenny , dear , too much ! My fancy is not able to get that far . 
As the low fire gleamed upon her , it showed her smiling , mournfully and abstractedly . 
Look in the fire , as I like to hear you tell how you used to do when you lived in that dreary old house that had once been a windmill . 
'More easily than I can make one of such material as myself , Jenny . 
The sparkling eye looked steadfastly up , as the musing face looked thoughtfully down . 
'Well ? said the dolls' dressmaker , 'We have found our lady ? Lizzie nodded , and asked , 'Shall she be rich ? 'She had better be , as he's poor . 
Shall she be handsome ? 'Even you can be that , Lizzie , so she ought to be . 
'What does she say about him ? asked Miss Jenny , in a low voice watchful , through an intervening silence , of the face looking down at the fire . 
'She is glad , glad , to be rich , that he may have the money . 
She is glad , glad , to be beautiful , that he may be proud of her . 
Her poor heart 'Eh ? Her poor hear ? said Miss Wren . 
'Her heart is given him , with all its love and truth . 
She would joyfully die with him , or , better than that , die for him . 
'Yes , but not the old pain . 
Lay me down , lay me down . 
Don't go out of my sight to night . 
Lock the door and keep close to me . 
A part of the Hole , indeed , contained so much public spirit and private virtue that not even this strong leverage could move it to good fellowship with a tainted accuser . 
But Miss Pleasant Riderhood had some little position and connection in Limehouse Hole . 
In her four and twentieth year of life , Pleasant was already in her fifth year of this way of trade . 
Why christened Pleasant , the late Mrs Riderhood might possibly have been at some time able to explain , and possibly not . 
Her daughter had no information on that point . 
Pleasant she found herself , and she couldn't help it . 
She had not been consulted on the question , any more than on the question of her coming into these terrestrial parts , to want a name . 
, which she might perhaps have declined if her sentiments on the subject had been taken . 
She was not otherwise positively ill looking , though anxious , meagre , of a muddy complexion , and looking as old again as she really was . 
Show her a man in a blue jacket , and , figuratively speaking , she pinned him instantly . 
Yet , all things considered , she was not of an evil mind or an unkindly disposition . 
For , observe how many things were to be considered according to her own unfortunate experience . 
Show Pleasant Riderhood a Wedding in the street , and she only saw two people taking out a regular licence to quarrel and fight . 
All things considered , therefore , Pleasant Riderhood was not so very , very bad . 
, where it would be good to roam with a congenial partner among groves of bread fruit , waiting for ships to be wafted from the hollow ports of civilization . 
For , sailors to be got the better of , were essential to Miss Pleasant's Eden . 
That was on a cold shrewd windy evening , after dark . 
At that particular moment , being newly come to the threshold to take a look out of doors , she was winding herself up with both hands after this fashion . 
It was a wretched little shop , with a roof that any man standing in it could touch with his hand little better than a cellar or cave , down three steps . 
Taking notice of Pleasant Riderhood at the door , the man crossed so quickly that she was still winding herself up , when he stood close before her . 
'Is your father at home ? said he . 
'I think he is , returned Pleasant , dropping her arms 'come in . 
It was a tentative reply , the man having a seafaring appearance . 
Her father was not at home , and Pleasant knew it . 
'Take a seat by the fire , were her hospitable words when she had got him in 'men of your calling are always welcome here . 
'Thankee , said the man . 
His manner was the manner of a sailor , and his hands were the hands of a sailor , except that they were smooth . 
'Might you be looking for a Boarding House ? Pleasant inquired , taking her observant stand on one side of the fire . 
'I don't rightly know my plans yet , returned the man . 
'You ain't looking for a Leaving Shop ? 'No , said the man . 
'No , assented Pleasant , 'you've got too much of an outfit on you for that . 
But if you should want either , this is both . 
'Ay , ay ! said the man , glancing round the place . 
'Did you Leave anything when you were here before ? asked Pleasant , with a view to principal and interest . 
The man shook his head . 
'I am pretty sure you never boarded here ? 'No . 
The man again shook his head . 
'What DID you do here when you were here before ? asked Pleasant . 
'For I don't remember you . 
'It's not at all likely you should . 
I only stood at the door , one night on the lower step there while a shipmate of mine looked in to speak to your father . 
I remember the place well . 
Looking very curiously round it . 
'Might that have been long ago ? 'Ay , a goodish bit ago . 
When I came off my last voyage . 
'Then you have not been to sea lately ? 'No . 
Been in the sick bay since then , and been employed ashore . 
'Then , to be sure , that accounts for your hands . 
The man with a keen look , a quick smile , and a change of manner , caught her up . 
That accounts for my hands . 
Pleasant was somewhat disquieted by his look , and returned it suspiciously . 
'Will your father be long ? he inquired . 
'As you supposed he was at home , it would seem that he has just gone out ? How's that ? 'I supposed he had come home , Pleasant explained . 
'Oh ! You supposed he had come home ? Then he has been some time out ? How's that ? 'I don't want to deceive you . 
Father's on the river in his boat . 
'At the old work ? asked the man . 
'I don't know what you mean , said Pleasant , shrinking a step back . 
'What on earth d'ye want ? 'I don't want to hurt your father . 
I don't want to say I might , if I chose . 
I want to speak to him . 
Not much in that , is there ? There shall be no secrets from you you shall be by . 
And plainly , Miss Riderhood , there's nothing to be got out of me , or made of me . 
Put the idea aside , and we shall get on together . 
'But you're a seafaring man ? argued Pleasant , as if that were a sufficient reason for his being good for something in her way . 
I have been , and I may be again . 
But I am not for you . 
Won't you take my word for it ? The conversation had arrived at a crisis to justify Miss Pleasant's hair in tumbling down . 
It tumbled down accordingly , and she twisted it up , looking from under her bent forehead at the man . 
He sat quietly looking at her but , with these appendages partially revealing themselves , and with a quantity of bristling oakum coloured head and whisker , he had a formidable appearance . 
'Won't you take my word for it ? he asked again . 
Pleasant answered with a short dumb nod . 
He rejoined with another short dumb nod . 
'To wile away the time till your father comes , he said , 'pray is there much robbing and murdering of seamen about the water side now ? 'No , said Pleasant . 
'Any ? 'Complaints of that sort are sometimes made , about Ratcliffe and Wapping and up that way . 
But who knows how many are true ? 'To be sure . 
And it don't seem necessary . 
'That's what I say , observed Pleasant . 
'Where's the reason for it ? Bless the sailors , it ain't as if they ever could keep what they have , without it . 
Their money may be soon got out of them , without violence , said the man . 
'Of course it may , said Pleasant 'and then they ship again and get more . 
And the best thing for 'em , too , to ship again as soon as ever they can be brought to it . 
They're never so well off as when they're afloat . 
'I'll tell you why I ask , pursued the visitor , looking up from the fire . 
'I was once beset that way myself , and left for dead . 
I don't think it can have been a mile from here . 
'Were you drunk ? asked Pleasant . 
'I was muddled , but not with fair drinking . 
I had not been drinking , you understand . 
Pleasant with a grave look shook her head importing that she understood the process , but decidedly disapproved . 
'Fair trade is one thing , said she , 'but that's another . 
No one has a right to carry on with Jack in THAT way . 
'The sentiment does you credit , returned the man , with a grim smile and added , in a mutter , 'the more so , as I believe it's not your father's . 
Yes , I had a bad time of it , that time . 
I lost everything , and had a sharp struggle for my life , weak as I was . 
'Did you get the parties punished ? asked Pleasant . 
'A tremendous punishment followed , said the man , more seriously 'but it was not of my bringing about . 
'Of whose , then ? asked Pleasant . 
The man pointed upward with his forefinger , and , slowly recovering that hand , settled his chin in it again as he looked at the fire . 
Bringing her inherited eye to bear upon him , Pleasant Riderhood felt more and more uncomfortable , his manner was so mysterious , so stern , so self possessed . 
'Anyways , said the damsel , 'I am glad punishment followed , and I say so . 
Fair trade with seafaring men gets a bad name through deeds of violence . 
I am as much against deeds of violence being done to seafaring men , as seafaring men can be themselves . 
I am of the same opinion as my mother was , when she was living . 
Fair trade , my mother used to say , but no robbery and no blows . 
But , she was here interrupted by her father's voice exclaiming angrily , 'Now , Poll Parrot ! and by her father's hat being heavily flung from his hand and striking her face . 
before she twisted it up . 
This was another common procedure on the part of the ladies of the Hole , when heated by verbal or fistic altercation . 
'What are you Poll Parroting at now ? Ain't you got nothing to do but fold your arms and stand a Poll Parroting all night ? 'Let her alone , urged the man . 
'She was only speaking to me . 
'Let her alone too ! retorted Mr Riderhood , eyeing him all over . 
'Do you know she's my daughter ? 'Yes . 
'Well , said Mr Riderhood , quailing a little , 'I am willing to be silent for the purpose of hearing . 
But don't Poll Parrot me . 
'Are you thirsty , you ? the man asked , in the same fierce short way , after returning his look . 
'What will you drink ? demanded the man . 
'Sherry wine , returned Mr Riderhood , in the same sharp tone , 'if you're capable of it . 
The man put his hand in his pocket , took out half a sovereign , and begged the favour of Miss Pleasant that she would fetch a bottle . 
'With the cork undrawn , he added , emphatically , looking at her father . 
'I'll take my Alfred David , muttered Mr Riderhood , slowly relaxing into a dark smile , 'that you know a move . 
Do I know YOU ? N n no , I don't know you . 
The man replied , 'No , you don't know me . 
And so they stood looking at one another surlily enough , until Pleasant came back . 
'There's small glasses on the shelf , said Riderhood to his daughter . 
'Give me the one without a foot . 
I gets my living by the sweat of my brow , and it's good enough for ME . 
The visitor first held the bottle against the light of the candle , and next examined the top of the cork . 
Satisfied that it had not been tampered with , he slowly took from his breastpocket a rusty clasp knife , and , with a corkscrew in the handle , opened the wine . 
All this with great deliberation . 
At first Riderhood had sat with his footless glass extended at arm's length for filling , while the very deliberate stranger seemed absorbed in his preparations . 
But , gradually his arm reverted home to him , and his glass was lowered and lowered until he rested it upside down upon the table . 
By the same degrees his attention became concentrated on the knife . 
'What's the matter ? asked the man . 
'Why , I know that knife ! said Riderhood . 
'Yes , I dare say you do . 
He motioned to him to hold up his glass , and filled it . 
Riderhood emptied it to the last drop and began again . 
'That there knife 'Stop , said the man , composedly . 
'I was going to drink to your daughter . 
Your health , Miss Riderhood . 
'That knife was the knife of a seaman named George Radfoot . 
'That seaman was well beknown to me . 
'What's come to him ? 'Death has come to him . 
Death came to him in an ugly shape . 
He looked , said the man , 'very horrible after it . 
'Arter what ? said Riderhood , with a frowning stare . 
'Killed ? Who killed him ? Only answering with a shrug , the man filled the footless glass , and Riderhood emptied it looking amazedly from his daughter to his visitor . 
'You don't mean to tell a honest man he was recommencing with his empty glass in his hand , when his eye became fascinated by the stranger's outer coat . 
, and exclaimed , 'It's my belief as this here coat was George Radfoot's too ! 'You are right . 
He wore it the last time you ever saw him , and the last time you ever will see him in this world . 
'It's my belief you mean to tell me to my face you killed him ! exclaimed Riderhood but , nevertheless , allowing his glass to be filled again . 
The man only answered with another shrug , and showed no symptom of confusion . 
'Wish I may die if I know what to be up to with this chap ! said Riderhood , after staring at him , and tossing his last glassful down his throat . 
'Let's know what to make of you . 
'I will , returned the other , leaning forward across the table , and speaking in a low impressive voice . 
'What a liar you are ! The honest witness rose , and made as though he would fling his glass in the man's face . 
I think you had , you know . 
'Me my suspicions ? Of what friend ? 'Tell me again whose knife was this ? demanded the man . 
'It was possessed by , and was the property of him as I have made mention on , said Riderhood , stupidly evading the actual mention of the name . 
'I suspect that you gave him the credit of the deed , and of keeping cleverly out of the way . 
But there was small cleverness in HIS keeping out of the way . 
The cleverness would have been , to have got back for one single instant to the light of the sun . 
Was there no stranger with him ? 'I'll take my world without end everlasting Alfred David that you warn't with him , answered Riderhood . 
'You talk big , you do , but things look pretty black against yourself , to my thinking . 
You charge again' me that George Radfoot got lost sight of , and was no more thought of . 
You could go on Poll Parroting enough with her , when I warn't come in Poll Parrot a little with her on this pint . 
You and your suspicions of my suspicions of him ! What are my suspicions of you ? You tell me George Radfoot got killed . 
I ask you who done it and how you know it . 
You carry his knife and you wear his coat . 
I ask you how you come by 'em ? Hand over that there bottle ! Here Mr Riderhood appeared to labour under a virtuous delusion that it was his own property . 
'Well ? Have you finished ? asked the strange man . 
'No , said Riderhood , 'I ain't . 
Now then ! I want to know how George Radfoot come by his death , and how you come by his kit ? 'If you ever do know , you won't know now . 
'And next I want to know , proceeded Riderhood 'whether you mean to charge that what you may call it murder 'Harmon murder , father , suggested Pleasant . 
'No Poll Parroting ! he vociferated , in return . 
'Keep your mouth shut ! I want to know , you sir , whether you charge that there crime on George Radfoot ? 'If you ever do know , you won't know now . 
'Perhaps you done it yourself ? said Riderhood , with a threatening action . 
'I alone know , returned the man , sternly shaking his head , 'the mysteries of that crime . 
I alone know that your trumped up story cannot possibly be true . 
I alone know that it must be altogether false , and that you must know it to be altogether false . 
I come here to night to tell you so much of what I know , and no more . 
Mr Riderhood , with his crooked eye upon his visitor , meditated for some moments , and then refilled his glass , and tipped the contents down his throat in three tips . 
'Shut the shop door ! he then said to his daughter , putting the glass suddenly down . 
'Don't you know that , if you didn't do the deed , what you say you could tell is worth from five to ten thousand pound ? asked Riderhood . 
'I know it very well , and when I claim the money you shall share it . 
The honest man paused , and drew a little nearer to the visitor , and a little further from the door . 
Then , propitiatingly and crawlingly 'You sir ! You han't said what you want of me . 
'This accusation of yours must not be left half made and half unmade . 
What was done for the blood money must be thoroughly undone . 
'Well but Shipmate 'Don't call me Shipmate , said the man . 
'Captain , then , urged Mr Riderhood 'there ! You won't object to Captain . 
It's a honourable title , and you fully look it . 
Captain ! Ain't the man dead ? Now I ask you fair . 
Ain't Gaffer dead ? 'Well , returned the other , with impatience , 'yes , he is dead . 
What then ? 'Can words hurt a dead man , Captain ? I only ask you fair . 
'They can hurt the memory of a dead man , and they can hurt his living children . 
'I have heard of a daughter , and a son . 
I ask for information I ask YOUR daughter I prefer to speak to her . 
Both very respectable , she added . 
'I know that , said the man , 'for I have been to the place they dwelt in , at the time of the inquest . 
Could you quietly find out for me where she lives now ? Pleasant had no doubt she could do that . 
Within what time , did she think ? Within a day . 
The visitor said that was well , and he would return for the information , relying on its being obtained . 
To this dialogue Riderhood had attended in silence , and he now obsequiously bespake the Captain . 
Besides which , I think the wine of them two Governors was I will not say a hocussed wine , but fur from a wine as was elthy for the mind . 
And there's another thing to be remembered , Captain . 
There if that's conspiracy , call me conspirator . 
'You shall sign , said the visitor , taking very little heed of this oration , 'a statement that it was all utterly false , and the poor girl shall have it . 
I will bring it with me for your signature , when I come again . 
'When might you be expected , Captain ? inquired Riderhood , again dubiously getting between him and door . 
'Quite soon enough for you . 
I shall not disappoint you don't be afraid . 
'Might you be inclined to leave any name , Captain ? 'No , not at all . 
I have no such intention . 
Shall is summ'at of a hard word , Captain , urged Riderhood , still feebly dodging between him and the door , as he advanced . 
'When you say a man shall sign this and that and t'other , Captain , you order him about in a grand sort of a way . 
Don't it seem so to yourself ? The man stood still , and angrily fixed him with his eyes . 
'When I claim it , said the man , in a tone which seemed to leave some such words as 'you dog , very distinctly understood , 'you shall share it . 
But , to Pleasant he said good night kindly . 
From his mind he conveyed them into his hands , and so conveyed the last of the wine into his stomach . 
When that was done , he awoke to a clear perception that Poll Parroting was solely chargeable with what had passed . 
Indifferent to the weather , and even preferring it to better weather for its clearance of the streets , the man looked about him with a scrutinizing glance . 
'Thus much I know , he murmured . 
'I have never been here since that night , and never was here before that night , but thus much I recognize . 
I wonder which way did we take when we came out of that shop . 
We turned to the right as I have turned , but I can recall no more . 
Did we go by this alley ? Or down that little lane ? He tried both , but both confused him equally , and he came straying back to the same spot . 
But here are all these things in the lane , and here are all these things in the alley . 
And I have nothing else in my mind but a wall , a dark doorway , a flight of stairs , and a room . 
He tried a new direction , but made nothing of it walls , dark doorways , flights of stairs and rooms , were too abundant . 
And , like most people so puzzled , he again and again described a circle , and found himself at the point from which he had begun . 
Yet in that same moment he was the Secretary also , Mr Boffin's Secretary . 
For John Rokesmith , too , was as like that same lost wanted Mr Julius Handford as never man was like another in this world . 
'I have no clue to the scene of my death , said he . 
'Not that it matters now . 
But having risked discovery by venturing here at all , I should have been glad to track some part of the way . 
With which singular words he abandoned his search , came up out of Limehouse Hole , and took the way past Limehouse Church . 
At the great iron gate of the churchyard he stopped and looked in . 
Nothing uses me to it . 
A spirit that was once a man could hardly feel stranger or lonelier , going unrecognized among mankind , than I feel . 
'But this is the fanciful side of the situation . 
It has a real side , so difficult that , though I think of it every day , I never thoroughly think it out . 
Now , let me determine to think it out as I walk home . 
I know I evade it , as many men perhaps most men do evade thinking their way through their greatest perplexity . 
I will try to pin myself to mine . 
I came back , timid , divided in my mind , afraid of myself and everybody here , knowing of nothing but wretchedness that my father's wealth had ever brought about . 
Now , stop , and so far think it out , John Harmon . 
Is that so ? That is exactly so . 
'On board serving as third mate was George Radfoot . 
I knew nothing of him . 
His name first became known to me about a week before we sailed , through my being accosted by one of the ship agent's clerks as Mr Radfoot . 
I had been a seaman too . 
If nothing came of it , I should be no worse off , and there would merely be a short delay in my presenting myself to Lightwood . 
I have all these facts right ? Yes . 
They are all accurately right . 
'His advantage in all this was , that for a time I was to be lost . 
It might be for a day or for two days , but I must be lost sight of on landing , or there would be recognition , anticipation , and failure . 
'As I had always shunned the port of London , I only knew the church through his pointing out its spire from on board . 
The way was purposely confused , no doubt . 
'But let me go on thinking the facts out , and avoid confusing them with my speculations . 
Whether be took me by a straight way or a crooked way , what is that to the purpose now ? Steady , John Harmon . 
Certainly none until afterwards when I held the clue . 
I think he must have got from Riderhood in a paper , the drug , or whatever it was , that afterwards stupefied me , but I am far from sure . 
All I felt safe in charging on him to night , was old companionship in villainy between them . 
Their undisguised intimacy , and the character I now know Riderhood to bear , made that not at all adventurous . 
But I am not clear about the drug . 
Thinking out the circumstances on which I found my suspicion , they are only two . 
One I remember his changing a small folded paper from one pocket to another , after we came out , which he had not touched before . 
Two I now know Riderhood to have been previously taken up for being concerned in the robbery of an unlucky seaman , to whom some such poison had been given . 
The night was particularly dark and it rained hard . 
As I think the circumstances back , I hear the rain splashing on the stone pavement of the passage , whch was not under cover . 
The room overlooked the river , or a dock , or a creek , and the tide was out . 
, and , looking out , knew by the kind of reflection below , of the few neighbouring lights , that they were reflected in tidal mud . 
'He had carried under his arm a canvas bag , containing a suit of his clothes . 
I had no change of outer clothes with me , as I was to buy slops . 
You are very wet , Mr Harmon , I can hear him saying and I am quite dry under this good waterproof coat . 
Put on these clothes of mine . 
You may find on trying them that they will answer your purpose to morrow , as well as the slops you mean to buy , or better . 
While you change , I'll hurry the hot coffee . 
I am so far literal and exact ? Literal and exact , I am certain . 
'I had drank some coffee , when to my sense of sight he began to swell immensely , and something urged me to rush at him . 
We had a struggle near the door . 
He got from me , through my not knowing where to strike , in the whirling round of the room , and the flashing of flames of fire between us . 
Lying helpless on the ground , I was turned over by a foot . 
I was dragged by the neck into a corner . 
I heard men speak together . 
I was turned over by other feet . 
I saw a figure like myself lying dressed in my clothes on a bed . 
What might have been , for anything I knew , a silence of days , weeks , months , years , was broken by a violent wrestling of men all over the room . 
The figure like myself was assailed , and my valise was in its hand . 
I was trodden upon and fallen over . 
I heard a noise of blows , and thought it was a wood cutter cutting down a tree . 
'I was very weak and faint , frightfully oppressed with drowsiness , and driving fast with the tide . 
The tide was running down , but I knew nothing of up or down then . 
'Was I long in the water ? Long enough to be chilled to the heart , but I don't know how long . 
Yet the cold was merciful , for it was the cold night air and the rain that restored me from a swoon on the stones of the causeway . 
But I had lost twenty four hours . 
'I have checked the calculation often , and it must have been two nights that I lay recovering in that public house . 
But this is not thinking it out this is making a leap to the present time . 
'I could not have done it , but for the fortune in the waterproof belt round my body . 
Not a great fortune , forty and odd pounds for the inheritor of a hundred and odd thousand ! But it was enough . 
Without it I must have disclosed myself . 
Without it , I could never have gone to that Exchequer Coffee House , or taken Mrs Wilfer's lodgings . 
'Some twelve days I lived at that hotel , before the night when I saw the corpse of Radfoot at the Police Station . 
The inexpressible mental horror that I laboured under , as one of the consequences of the poison , makes the interval seem greatly longer , but I know it cannot have been longer . 
'Again I ramble away from thinking it out to the end . 
It is not so far to the end that I need be tempted to break off . 
Now , on straight ! 'I examined the newspapers every day for tidings that I was missing , but saw none . 
, I found a crowd assembled round a placard posted at Whitehall . 
Next day while I hesitated , and next day while I hesitated , it seemed as if the whole country were determined to have me dead . 
'So John Harmon died , and Julius Handford disappeared , and John Rokesmith was born . 
In that intent John Rokesmith will persevere , as his duty is . 
'Now , is it all thought out ? All to this time ? Nothing omitted ? No , nothing . 
But beyond this time ? To think it out through the future , is a harder though a much shorter task than to think it out through the past . 
Should John Harmon come to life ? 'If yes , why ? If no , why ? 'Take yes , first . 
To enlighten human Justice concerning the offence of one far beyond it who may have a living mother . 
To enlighten it with the lights of a stone passage , a flight of stairs , a brown window curtain , and a black man . 
What a use for the money , and how worthy of its old misuses ! 'Now , take no . 
The reasons why John Harmon should not come to life . 
Because he has passively allowed these dear old faithful friends to pass into possession of the property . 
Because he sees them happy with it , making a good use of it , effacing the old rust and tarnish on the money . 
Because they have virtually adopted Bella , and will provide for her . 
Because there is affection enough in her nature , and warmth enough in her heart , to develop into something enduringly good , under favourable conditions . 
Because her faults have been intensified by her place in my father's will , and she is already growing better . 
Because if John Harmon comes to life and does not marry her , the property falls into the very hands that hold it now . 
I did not come back , and they have passed unspoiled into my place . 
Let them rest in it , and let Bella rest in hers . 
'What course for me then ? This . 
I know I need but ask of their generosity , to have . 
When the right time comes , I will ask no more than will replace me in my former path of life , and John Rokesmith shall tread it as contentedly as he may . 
But John Harmon shall come back no more . 
And now it is all thought out , from the beginning to the end , and my mind is easier . 
But being now come into the City , where there was a coach stand , he stood irresolute whether to go to his lodgings , or to go first to Mr Boffin's house . 
Arriving at the house , he found that Mr and Mrs Boffin were out , but that Miss Wilfer was in the drawing room . 
Miss Wilfer had remained at home , in consequence of not feeling very well , and had inquired in the evening if Mr Rokesmith were in his room . 
'Make my compliments to Miss Wilfer , and say I am here now . 
I was sorry to hear , when I came in , that YOU were not . 
I had a headache gone now and was not quite fit for a hot theatre , so I stayed at home . 
I asked you if you were not well , because you look so white . 
'Do I ? I have had a busy evening . 
She was on a low ottoman before the fire , with a little shining jewel of a table , and her book and her work , beside her . 
A little distance in respect of space , but a great distance in respect of separation . 
You have no right to think ill of me , sir . 
The sharp little way in which she darted a look at him , half sensitively injured , and half pettishly , would have been very much admired by the late John Harmon . 
'You don't know how well I think of you , Miss Wilfer . 
'Truly , you must have a very high opinion of me , Mr Rokesmith , when you believe that in prosperity I neglect and forget my old home . 
'Do I believe so ? 'You DID , sir , at any rate , returned Bella . 
'I took the liberty of reminding you of a little omission into which you had fallen insensibly and naturally fallen . 
It was no more than that . 
'Because I am truly , deeply , profoundly interested in you , Miss Wilfer . 
Because I wish to see you always at your best . 
Because I shall I go on ? 'No , sir , returned Bella , with a burning face , 'you have said more than enough . 
I beg that you will NOT go on . 
If you have any generosity , any honour , you will say no more . 
'I wish to speak to you , sir , said Bella , 'once for all , and I don't know how to do it . 
I have sat here all this evening , wishing to speak to you , and determining to speak to you , and feeling that I must . 
I beg for a moment's time . 
He remained silent , and she remained with her face averted , sometimes making a slight movement as if she would turn and speak . 
At length she did so . 
'You know how I am situated here , sir , and you know how I am situated at home . 
I must speak to you for myself , since there is no one about me whom I could ask to do so . 
It is not generous in you , it is not honourable in you , to conduct yourself towards me as you do . 
'Is it ungenerous or dishonourable to be devoted to you fascinated by you ? 'Preposterous ! said Bella . 
The late John Harmon might have thought it rather a contemptuous and lofty word of repudiation . 
'I now feel obliged to go on , pursued the Secretary , 'though it were only in self explanation and self defence . 
I hope , Miss Wilfer , that it is not unpardonable even in me to make an honest declaration of an honest devotion to you . 
'An honest declaration ! repeated Bella , with emphasis . 
'Is it otherwise ? 'I must request , sir , said Bella , taking refuge in a touch of timely resentment , 'that I may not be questioned . 
You must excuse me if I decline to be cross examined . 
'Oh , Miss Wilfer , this is hardly charitable . 
I ask you nothing but what your own emphasis suggests . 
However , I waive even that question . 
But what I have declared , I take my stand by . 
I cannot recall the avowal of my earnest and deep attachment to you , and I do not recall it . 
'I reject it , sir , said Bella . 
'I should be blind and deaf if I were not prepared for the reply . 
Forgive my offence , for it carries its punishment with it . 
'What punishment ? asked Bella . 
'Is my present endurance none ? But excuse me I did not mean to cross examine you again . 
'You take advantage of a hasty word of mine , said Bella with a little sting of self reproach , 'to make me seem I don't know what . 
I spoke without consideration when I used it . 
If that was bad , I am sorry but you repeat it after consideration , and that seems to me to be at least no better . 
For the rest , I beg it may be understood , Mr Rokesmith , that there is an end of this between us , now and for ever . 
'Now and for ever , he repeated . 
I appeal to you , sir , proceeded Bella with increasing spirit , 'not to pursue me . 
I appeal to you not to take advantage of your position in this house to make my position in it distressing and disagreeable . 
I appeal to you to discontinue your habit of making your misplaced attentions as plain to Mrs Boffin as to me . 
'Have I done so ? 'I should think you have , replied Bella . 
'In any case it is not your fault if you have not , Mr Rokesmith . 
'I hope you are wrong in that impression . 
I should be very sorry to have justified it . 
I think I have not . 
For the future there is no apprehension . 
'I am much relieved to hear it , said Bella . 
'I have far other views in life , and why should you waste your own ? 'Mine ! said the Secretary . 
'My life ! His curious tone caused Bella to glance at the curious smile with which he said it . 
It was gone as he glanced back . 
In what ? 'I would rather not be asked , said Bella , haughtily looking down . 
'I would rather not ask , but the question is imposed upon me . 
Kindly explain or if not kindly , justly . 
The Secretary kept silence for a little while then merely said , 'You are wholly mistaken , Miss Wilfer wonderfully mistaken . 
I cannot say , however , that it is your fault . 
If I deserve better things of you , you do not know it . 
'At least , sir , retorted Bella , with her old indignation rising , 'you know the history of my being here at all . 
I have heard Mr Boffin say that you are master of every line and word of that will , as you are master of all his affairs . 
'I should be glad to know it , answered Bella . 
'I doubt if you ever will . 
Of course I shall be careful to conceal any traces of this interview from Mr and Mrs Boffin , as long as I remain here . 
Trust me , what you have complained of is at an end for ever . 
'I am glad I have spoken , then , Mr Rokesmith . 
It has been painful and difficult , but it is done . 
If I have hurt you , I hope you will forgive me . 
I am inexperienced and impetuous , and I have been a little spoilt but I really am not so bad as I dare say I appear , or as you think me . 
He quitted the room when Bella had said this , relenting in her wilful inconsistent way . 
And John Rokesmith , what did he ? He went down to his room , and buried John Harmon many additional fathoms deep . 
His walking did not bring him home until the dawn of day . 
It was all over now . 
He went over it all again . 
He had lapsed into the condition in which he found himself , as many a man lapses into many a condition , without perceiving the accumulative power of its separate circumstances . 
, be would seriously have said 'This is another of the old perverted uses of the misery making money . 
I will let it go to my and my sister's only protectors and friends . 
He had since tried her , in his own unknown person and supposed station , and she not only rejected his advances but resented them . 
Another consequence that he had never foreshadowed , was the implication of an innocent man in his supposed murder . 
He would obtain complete retraction from the accuser , and set the wrong right but clearly the wrong could never have been done if he had never planned a deception . 
Then , whatever inconvenience or distress of mind the deception cost him , it was manful repentantly to accept as among its consequences , and make no complaint . 
Thus John Rokesmith in the morning , and it buried John Harmon still many fathoms deeper than he had been buried in the night . 
Going out earlier than he was accustomed to do , he encountered the cherub at the door . 
The cherub's way was for a certain space his way , and they walked together . 
It was impossible not to notice the change in the cherub's appearance . 
The cherub felt very conscious of it , and modestly remarked 'A present from my daughter Bella , Mr Rokesmith . 
The words gave the Secretary a stroke of pleasure , for he remembered the fifty pounds , and he still loved the girl . 
No doubt it was very weak it always IS very weak , some authorities hold but he loved the girl . 
'I don't know whether you happen to have read many books of African Travel , Mr Rokesmith ? said R. W. 'I have read several . 
Anywhere in Africa , I mean . 
Pretty well everywhere , I may say for black kings are cheap and I think' said R. W. , with an apologetic air , 'nasty' . 
'I am much of your opinion , Mr Wilfer . 
'Just so , said the Secretary . 
You have no idea , as a single man , of the difficulty I have had in wearing more than one good article at a time . 
'I can easily believe it , Mr Wilfer . 
'I only mention it , said R. W. in the warmth of his heart , 'as a proof of the amiable , delicate , and considerate affection of my daughter Bella . 
If she had been a little spoilt , I couldn't have thought so very much of it , under the circumstances . 
But no , not a bit . 
And she is so very pretty ! I hope you agree with me in finding her very pretty , Mr Rokesmith ? 'Certainly I do . 
'I hope so , said the cherub . 
'Indeed , I have no doubt of it . 
This is a great advancement for her in life , Mr Rokesmith . 
A great opening of her prospects ? 'Miss Wilfer could have no better friends than Mr and Mrs Boffin . 
'Impossible ! said the gratified cherub . 
'Really I begin to think things are very well as they are . 
If Mr John Harmon had lived 'He is better dead , said the Secretary . 
'Has she as you place the confidence in me of speaking on the subject , you will excuse my asking has she perhaps chosen ? faltered the Secretary . 
'Oh dear no ! returned R. W. 'Young ladies sometimes , Rokesmith hinted , 'choose without mentioning their choice to their fathers . 
'Not in this case , Mr Rokesmith . 
Between my daughter Bella and me there is a regular league and covenant of confidence . 
It was ratified only the other day . 
The ratification dates from these , said the cherub , giving a little pull at the lappels of his coat and the pockets of his trousers . 
'Oh no , she has not chosen . 
To be sure , young George Sampson , in the days when Mr John Harmon 'Who I wish had never been born ! said the Secretary , with a gloomy brow . 
But it never was seriously thought of , and it's still less than ever to be thought of now . 
For Bella is ambitious , Mr Rokesmith , and I think I may predict will marry fortune . 
This time , you see , she will have the person and the property before her together , and will be able to make her choice with her eyes open . 
I am very sorry to part company so soon . 
'I should thank you kindly , sir , said Betty , 'if I might make so bold as have a word or two wi' you . 
She should have as many words as she liked , he told her and took her into his room , and made her sit down . 
''Tis concerning Sloppy , sir , said Betty . 
'And that's how I come here by myself . 
Not wishing him to know what I'm a going to say to you , I got the start of him early and walked up . 
'You have wonderful energy , returned Rokesmith . 
'You are as young as I am . 
Betty Higden gravely shook her head . 
'I am strong for my time of life , sir , but not young , thank the Lord ! 'Are you thankful for not being young ? 'Yes , sir . 
'And what about him , Betty ? ''Tis just this , sir . 
To give himself up to being put in the way of arning a good living and getting on , he must give me up . 
'I respect him for it , said Rokesmith . 
'DO ye , sir ? I don't know but what I do myself . 
Still that don't make it right to let him have his way . 
So as he won't give me up , I'm a going to give him up . 
'How , Betty ? 'I'm a going to run away from him . 
With an astonished look at the indomitable old face and the bright eyes , the Secretary repeated , 'Run away from him ? 'Yes , sir , said Betty , with one nod . 
And in the nod and in the firm set of her mouth , there was a vigour of purpose not to be doubted . 
'Come , come ! said the Secretary . 
'We must talk about this . 
Let us take our time over it , and try to get at the true sense of the case and the true course , by degrees . 
'Now , lookee here , by dear , returned old Betty 'asking your excuse for being so familiar , but being of a time of life a'most to be your grandmother twice over . 
Now , lookee , here . 
But it did just keep us on , the two together . 
Now that I'm alone with even Johnny gone I'd far sooner be upon my feet and tiring of myself out , than a sitting folding and folding by the fire . 
And I'll tell you why . 
There's a deadness steals over me at times , that the kind of life favours and I don't like . 
I was a nimble girl , and have always been a active body , as I told your lady , first time ever I see her good face . 
I can still walk twenty mile if I am put to it . 
I'd far better be a walking than a getting numbed and dreary . 
I'm a good fair knitter , and can make many little things to sell . 
The loan from your lady and gentleman of twenty shillings to fit out a basket with , would be a fortune for me . 
Trudging round the country and tiring of myself out , I shall keep the deadness off , and get my own bread by my own labour . 
But we can't make it right among us to have it so . 
I've never took charity yet , nor yet has any one belonging to me . 
'It might come to be justifiable and unavoidable at last , the Secretary gently hinted , with a slight stress on the word . 
'Trust him for that , sir ! said Betty , cheerfully . 
'Though he had need to be something quick about it , for I'm a getting to be an old one . 
'It would be far more satisfactory to your kind heart , I know , he said , 'to provide for her , but it may be a duty to respect this independent spirit . 
Mrs Boffin was not proof against the consideration set before her . 
She and her husband had worked too , and had brought their simple faith and honour clean out of dustheaps . 
If they owed a duty to Betty Higden , of a surety that duty must be done . 
''Twould come easier to Sloppy , said Mrs Higden , shaking her head . 
''Twould come easier to me too . 
But 'tis as you please . 
'When would you go ? 'Now , was the bright and ready answer . 
'To day , my deary , to morrow . 
Bless ye , I am used to it . 
I know many parts of the country well . 
When nothing else was to be done , I have worked in many a market garden afore now , and in many a hop garden too . 
'If I give my consent to your going , Betty which Mr Rokesmith thinks I ought to do Betty thanked him with a grateful curtsey . 
We must not lose sight of you . 
We must not let you pass out of our knowledge . 
We must know all about you . 
'Yes , my deary , but not through letter writing , because letter writing indeed , writing of most sorts hadn't much come up for such as me when I was young . 
But I shall be to and fro . 
No fear of my missing a chance of giving myself a sight of your reviving face . 
'MUST it be done ? asked Mrs Boffin , still reluctant , of the Secretary . 
After more discussion it was agreed that it should be done , and Mrs Boffin summoned Bella to note down the little purchases that were necessary to set Betty up in trade . 
The Secretary took that opportunity of touching on the practical question of Mr Sloppy's capabilities . 
He would have made a wonderful cabinet maker , said Mrs Higden , 'if there had been the money to put him to it . 
She had seen him handle tools that he had borrowed to mend the mangle , or to knock a broken piece of furniture together , in a surprising manner . 
As to constructing toys for the Minders , out of nothing , he had done that daily . 
And once as many as a dozen people had got together in the lane to see the neatness with which he fitted the broken pieces of a foreign monkey's musical instrument . 
'That's well , said the Secretary . 
'It will not be hard to find a trade for him . 
John Harmon being buried under mountains now , the Secretary that very same day set himself to finish his affairs and have done with him . 
, and then considered to whom should he give the document ? To Hexam's son , or daughter ? Resolved speedily , to the daughter . 
'I might even , he reflected , 'be apprehended as having been concerned in my own murder ! Therefore , best to send it to the daughter under cover by the post . 
Pleasant Riderhood had undertaken to find out where she lived , and it was not necessary that it should be attended by a single word of explanation . 
'But with whom the common course of things might bring me in a moment face to face , any day in the week or any hour in the day . 
Now , to cast about for some likely means of opening such a channel . 
The boy , Hexam , was training for and with a schoolmaster . 
The Secretary knew it , because his sister's share in that disposal of him seemed to be the best part of Lightwood's account of the family . 
This young fellow , Sloppy , stood in need of some instruction . 
If he , the Secretary , engaged that schoolmaster to impart it to him , the channel might be opened . 
The next point was , did Mrs Boffin know the schoolmaster's name ? No , but she knew where the school was . 
Promptly the Secretary wrote to the master of that school , and that very evening Bradley Headstone answered in person . 
The schoolmaster was willing to undertake the charge of such a pupil . 
The Secretary inquired on what terms ? The schoolmaster stated on what terms . 
'May I ask , sir , said Bradley Headstone , 'to whose good opinion I owe a recommendation to you ? 'You should know that I am not the principal here . 
I am Mr Boffin's Secretary . 
Mr Boffin is a gentleman who inherited a property of which you may have heard some public mention the Harmon property . 
'Was murdered and found in the river . 
'It was not 'No , interposed the Secretary , smiling , 'it was not he who recommended you . 
Mr Boffin heard of you through a certain Mr Lightwood . 
I think you know Mr Lightwood , or know of him ? 'I know as much of him as I wish to know , sir . 
I have no acquaintance with Mr Lightwood , and I desire none . 
I have no objection to Mr Lightwood , but I have a particular objection to some of Mr Lightwood's friends in short , to one of Mr Lightwood's friends . 
, when the careless and contemptuous bearing of Eugene Wrayburn rose before his mind . 
'I have no objection to mention the friend by name , he said , doggedly . 
'The person I object to , is Mr Eugene Wrayburn . 
'Observing that Mr Wrayburn was a disagreeable subject with you , I tried to get away from it though not very successfully , it would appear . 
'Do you know Mr Wrayburn , sir ? 'No . 
'Then perhaps the names cannot be put together on the authority of any representation of his ? 'Certainly not . 
I I hope you will not misunderstand me , sir . 
I I am much interested in this brother and sister , and the subject awakens very strong feelings within me . 
Very , very , strong feelings . 
With a shaking hand , Bradley took out his handkerchief and wiped his brow . 
All at once , in the midst of his turbulent emotions , Bradley stopped and seemed to challenge his look . 
How I come to be interested , I need not explain . 
You know the father's connection with the discovery of Mr Harmon's body . 
'Sir , replied Bradley , very restlessly indeed , 'I know all the circumstances of that case . 
'Pray tell me , Mr Headstone , said the Secretary . 
'I am very glad to hear it . 
I will not say , raising her to his own station I say , placing her in it . 
The sister labours under no reproach , unless she should unfortunately make it for herself . 
'And there is such a man ? said the Secretary . 
The Secretary had no reason or excuse for prolonging the conversation , and it ended here . 
All these proceedings occupied John Rokesmith so much , that it was not until the following day that he saw Bella again . 
The fitting out of old Betty Higden was favourable to this , as keeping Bella engaged and interested , and as occupying the general attention . 
'No , no , no , said Mr Boffin 'no patronizing ! Let's keep out of THAT , whatever we come to . 
'There's more than enough of that about , without us ain't there , Noddy ? said Mrs Boffin . 
'I believe you , old lady ! returned the Golden Dustman . 
'Overmuch indeed ! 'But people sometimes like to be patronized don't they , sir ? asked Bella , looking up . 
And if THEY do , my dear , they ought to learn better , said Mr Boffin . 
'Warm ! cried Mr Boffin . 
'It's enough to make a man smoking hot . 
I can't go anywhere without being Patronized . 
I don't want to be Patronized . 
'As to the letter , Rokesmith , said Mr Boffin , 'you're as right as a trivet . 
Give her the letter , make her take the letter , put it in her pocket by violence . 
You know you might fall sick , said Mr Boffin . 
'Don't deny it , Mrs Higden , in your obstinacy you know you might . 
Old Betty laughed , and said that she would take the letter and be thankful . 
'That's right ! said Mr Boffin . 
, but to Mr Rokesmith . 
The letter was written , and read to her , and given to her . 
'Now , how do you feel ? said Mr Boffin . 
'Do you like it ? 'The letter , sir ? said Betty . 
'Ay , it's a beautiful letter ! 'No , no , no not the letter , said Mr Boffin 'the idea . 
'Don't say than any way left open , you know , urged Mr Boffin 'because there are ways without end . 
A housekeeper would be acceptable over yonder at the Bower , for instance . 
Why , what have you got there , Betty ? Not a doll ? It was the man in the Guards who had been on duty over Johnny's bed . 
The solitary old woman showed what it was , and put it up quietly in her dress . 
Chapter THE WHOLE CASE SO FAR Bradley Headstone held fast by that other interview he was to have with Lizzie Hexam . 
In stipulating for it , he had been impelled by a feeling little short of desperation , and the feeling abided by him . 
'That dolls' dressmaker , said Bradley , 'is favourable neither to me nor to you , Hexam . 
'A pert crooked little chit , Mr Headstone ! I knew she would put herself in the way , if she could , and would be sure to strike in with something impertinent . 
It was on that account that I proposed our going to the City to night and meeting my sister . 
'So I supposed , said Bradley , getting his gloves on his nervous hands as he walked . 
'Nobody but my sister , pursued Charley , 'would have found out such an extraordinary companion . 
She has done it in a ridiculous fancy of giving herself up to another . 
She told me so , that night when we went there . 
'Why should she give herself up to the dressmaker ? asked Bradley . 
'Oh ! said the boy , colouring . 
'One of her romantic ideas ! I tried to convince her so , but I didn't succeed . 
However , what we have got to do , is , to succeed to night , Mr Headstone , and then all the rest follows . 
'You are still sanguine , Hexam . 
'Certainly I am , sir . 
Why , we have everything on our side . 
'Except your sister , perhaps , thought Bradley . 
But he only gloomily thought it , and said nothing . 
'Everything on our side , repeated the boy with boyish confidence . 
'Naturally , Mr Headstone , I have a good deal of influence with her . 
And now that you have honoured me with your confidence and spoken to me first , I say again , we have everything on our side . 
And Bradley thought again , 'Except your sister , perhaps . 
A grey dusty withered evening in London city has not a hopeful aspect . 
The closed warehouses and offices have an air of death about them , and the national dread of colour has an air of mourning . 
Being something too soon in their arrival , they lurked at a corner , waiting for her to appear . 
The best looking among us will not look very well , lurking at a corner , and Bradley came out of that disadvantage very poorly indeed . 
'Here she comes , Mr Headstone ! Let us go forward and meet her . 
As they advanced , she saw them coming , and seemed rather troubled . 
But she greeted her brother with the usual warmth , and touched the extended hand of Bradley . 
'Why , where are you going , Charley , dear ? she asked him then . 
We came on purpose to meet you . 
'To meet me , Charley ? 'Yes . 
We are going to walk with you . 
But don't let us take the great leading streets where every one walks , and we can't hear ourselves speak . 
Let us go by the quiet backways . 
Here's a large paved court by this church , and quiet , too . 
Let us go up here . 
'But it's not in the way , Charley . 
'Yes it is , said the boy , petulantly . 
'It's in my way , and my way is yours . 
She had not released his hand , and , still holding it , looked at him with a kind of appeal . 
He avoided her eyes , under pretence of saying , 'Come along , Mr Headstone . 
Bradley walked at his side not at hers and the brother and sister walked hand in hand . 
The court brought them to a churchyard a paved square court , with a raised bank of earth about breast high , in the middle , enclosed by iron rails . 
They paced the whole of this place once , in a constrained and uncomfortable manner , when the boy stopped and said 'Lizzie , Mr Headstone has something to say to you . 
I don't wish to be an interruption either to him or to you , and so I'll go and take a little stroll and come back . 
I know in a general way what Mr Headstone intends to say , and I very highly approve of it , as I hope and indeed I do not doubt you will . 
I needn't tell you , Lizzie , that I am under great obligations to Mr Headstone , and that I am very anxious for Mr Headstone to succeed in all he undertakes . 
As I hope and as , indeed , I don't doubt you must be . 
'Charley , returned his sister , detaining his hand as he withdrew it , 'I think you had better stay . 
I think Mr Headstone had better not say what he thinks of saying . 
'Why , how do you know what it is ? returned the boy . 
'Perhaps I don't , but 'Perhaps you don't ? No , Liz , I should think not . 
If you knew what it was , you would give me a very different answer . 
There let go be sensible . 
I wonder you don't remember that Mr Headstone is looking on . 
She allowed him to separate himself from her , and he , after saying , 'Now Liz , be a rational girl and a good sister , walked away . 
She remained standing alone with Bradley Headstone , and it was not until she raised her eyes , that he spoke . 
'I said , he began , 'when I saw you last , that there was something unexplained , which might perhaps influence you . 
I have come this evening to explain it . 
I hope you will not judge of me by my hesitating manner when I speak to you . 
You see me at my greatest disadvantage . 
It is most unfortunate for me that I wish you to see me at my best , and that I know you see me at my worst . 
She moved slowly on when he paused , and he moved slowly on beside her . 
You are the ruin of me . 
She started at the passionate sound of the last words , and at the passionate action of his hands , with which they were accompanied . 
'Yes ! you are the ruin the ruin the ruin of me . 
I have no resources in myself , I have no confidence in myself , I have no government of myself when you are near me or in my thoughts . 
And you are always in my thoughts now . 
I have never been quit of you since I first saw you . 
'There ! he cried , despairingly . 
'Now , I seem to have reproached you , instead of revealing to you the state of my own mind ! Bear with me . 
I am always wrong when you are in question . 
'I must try to give expression to what is in my mind it shall and must be spoken . 
'Surely , Mr Headstone , I do believe it . 
Surely I have always known it from Charley . 
'I do not doubt it , said Lizzie , with her eyes upon the ground . 
'Why have you not done so ? asked Lizzie Hexam . 
For if I had , and if the same spell had come upon me for my ruin , I know I should have broken that tie asunder as if it had been thread . 
She glanced at him with a glance of fear , and a shrinking gesture . 
He answered , as if she had spoken . 
'No ! It would not have been voluntary on my part , any more than it is voluntary in me to be here now . 
You draw me to you . 
If I were shut up in a strong prison , you would draw me out . 
I should break through the wall to come to you . 
If I were lying on a sick bed , you would draw me up to stagger to your feet and fall there . 
The wild energy of the man , now quite let loose , was absolutely terrible . 
He stopped and laid his hand upon a piece of the coping of the burial ground enclosure , as if he would have dislodged the stone . 
'No man knows till the time comes , what depths are within him . 
'Mr Headstone , I have heard enough . 
Let me stop you here . 
It will be better for you and better for me . 
Let us find my brother . 
It shall and must be spoken . 
I have been in torments ever since I stopped short of it before . 
It is another of my miseries that I cannot speak to you or speak of you without stumbling at every syllable , unless I let the check go altogether and run mad . 
Here is a man lighting the lamps . 
He will be gone directly . 
I entreat of you let us walk round this place again . 
You have no reason to look alarmed I can restrain myself , and I will . 
She yielded to the entreaty how could she do otherwise ! and they paced the stones in silence . 
One by one the lights leaped up making the cold grey church tower more remote , and they were alone again . 
He said no more until they had regained the spot where he had broken off there , he again stood still , and again grasped the stone . 
In saying what he said then , he never looked at her but looked at it and wrenched at it . 
'You know what I am going to say . 
This and the confusion of my thoughts , so that I am fit for nothing , is what I mean by your being the ruin of me . 
But if you would return a favourable answer to my offer of myself in marringe , you could draw me to any good every good with equal force . 
My circumstances are quite easy , and you would want for nothing . 
My reputation stands quite high , and would be a shield for yours . 
Whatever considerations I may have thought of against this offer , I have conquered , and I make it with all my heart . 
Your brother favours me to the utmost , and it is likely that we might live and work together anyhow , it is certain that he would have my best influence and support . 
I don't know what I could say more if I tried . 
I might only weaken what is ill enough said as it is . 
I only add that if it is any claim on you to be in earnest , I am in thorough earnest , dreadful earnest . 
The powdered mortar from under the stone at which he wrenched , rattled on the pavement to confirm his words . 
'Mr Headstone 'Stop ! I implore you , before you answer me , to walk round this place once more . 
It will give you a minute's time to think , and me a minute's time to get some fortitude together . 
Again she yielded to the entreaty , and again they came back to the same place , and again he worked at the stone . 
'Is no short time necessary for reflection no weeks or days ? he asked , in the same half suffocated way . 
But he caught her by the arm . 
'Mr Headstone , let me go . 
Mr Headstone , I must call for help ! 'It is I who should call for help , he said 'you don't know yet how much I need it . 
'There ! You see I have recovered myself . 
She had never been so handsome , in his eyes . 
A shade came over them while he looked back at her , as if she drew the very light out of them to herself . 
'Was it of him you spoke in your ungovernable rage and violence ? Lizzie Hexam demanded with spirit . 
He bit his lip , and looked at her , and said never a word . 
'Was it Mr Wrayburn that you threatened ? He bit his lip again , and looked at her , and said never a word . 
'You asked me to hear you out , and you will not speak . 
Let me find my brother . 
'Stay ! I threatened no one . 
Her look dropped for an instant to his bleeding hand . 
He lifted it to his mouth , wiped it on his sleeve , and again folded it over the other . 
'Mr Eugene Wrayburn , he repeated . 
'Why do you mention that name again and again , Mr Headstone ? 'Because it is the text of the little I have left to say . 
Observe ! There are no threats in it . 
If I utter a threat , stop me , and fasten it upon me . 
A worse threat than was conveyed in his manner of uttering the name , could hardly have escaped him . 
You accept favours from him . 
You are willing enough to listen to HIM . 
I know it , as well as he does . 
'Mr Wrayburn has been considerate and good to me , sir , said Lizzie , proudly , 'in connexion with the death and with the memory of my poor father . 
He is of course a very considerate and a very good man , Mr Eugene Wrayburn . 
'He is nothing to you , I think , said Lizzie , with an indignation she could not repress . 
'Oh yes , he is . 
He is much to me . 
'What can he be to you ? 'He can be a rival to me among other things , said Bradley . 
'Mr Headstone , returned Lizzie , with a burning face , 'it is cowardly in you to speak to me in this way . 
His head bent for a moment , as if under a weight , and he then looked up again , moistening his lips . 
'I was going on with the little I had left to say . 
I knew all this about Mr Eugene Wrayhurn , all the while you were drawing me to you . 
I strove against the knowledge , but quite in vain . 
It made no difference in me . 
With Mr Eugene Wrayburn in my mind , I went on . 
With Mr Eugene Wrayburn in my mind , I spoke to you just now . 
With Mr Eugene Wrayburn in my mind , I have been set aside and I have been cast out . 
'I am not complaining , he returned , 'I am only stating the case . 
I had to wrestle with my self respect when I submitted to be drawn to you in spite of Mr Wrayburn . 
You may imagine how low my self respect lies now . 
She was hurt and angry but repressed herself in consideration of his suffering , and of his being her brother's friend . 
'And it lies under his feet , said Bradley , unfolding his hands in spite of himself , and fiercely motioning with them both towards the stones of the pavement . 
'Remember that ! It lies under that fellow's feet , and he treads upon it and exults above it . 
'He does not ! said Lizzie . 
'He does ! said Bradley . 
'I have stood before him face to face , and he crushed me down in the dirt of his contempt , and walked over me . 
Why ? Because he knew with triumph what was in store for me to night . 
'O , Mr Headstone , you talk quite wildly . 
I know what I say too well . 
Now I have said all . 
I have used no threat , remember I have done no more than show you how the case stands how the case stands , so far . 
At this moment her brother sauntered into view close by . 
She darted to him , and caught him by the hand . 
Bradley followed , and laid his heavy hand on the boy's opposite shoulder . 
'Charley Hexam , I am going home . 
I must walk home by myself to night , and get shut up in my room without being spoken to . 
Give me half an hour's start , and let me be , till you find me at my work in the morning . 
I shall be at my work in the morning just as usual . 
Clasping his hands , he uttered a short unearthly broken cry , and went his way . 
'Speak a little more considerately ! 'I am not in the humour for consideration , or for nonsense of any sort , replied the boy . 
'What have you been doing ? Why has Mr Headstone gone from us in that way ? 'He asked me you know he asked me to be his wife , Charley . 
'Well ? said the boy , impatiently . 
'And I was obliged to tell him that I could not be his wife . 
'You were obliged to tell him , repeated the boy angrily , between his teeth , and rudely pushing her away . 
'You were obliged to tell him ! Do you know that he is worth fifty of you ? 'It may easily be so , Charley , but I cannot marry him . 
'Hear her ! exclaimed the boy , looking round at the darkness . 
His tone relented , and he drew her arm through his . 
'Now , come , Liz don't let us quarrel let us be reasonable and talk this over like brother and sister . 
Will you listen to me ? 'Oh , Charley ! she replied through her starting tears 'do I not listen to you , and hear many hard things ! 'Then I am sorry . 
There , Liz ! I am unfeignedly sorry . 
Only you do put me out so . 
Mr Headstone is perfectly devoted to you . 
He has told me in the strongest manner that he has never been his old self for one single minute since I first brought him to see you . 
So I have haven't I , Liz ? 'Yes , Charley . 
'Well said ! Now , you see , we begin to get on , the moment we begin to be really talking it over , like brother and sister . 
Not that I want to disparage Miss Jenny Wren I dare say she is all very well in her way but her way is not your way as Mr Headstone's wife . 
Now , you see , Liz , on all three accounts on Mr Headstone's , on mine , on yours nothing could be better or more desirable . 
They were walking slowly as the boy spoke , and here he stood still , to see what effect he had made . 
His sister's eyes were fixed upon him but as they showed no yielding , and as she remained silent , he walked her on again . 
There was some discomfiture in his tone as he resumed , though he tried to conceal it . 
But really all this in his favour seemed so plain and undeniable , and I knew you to have always been so reasonable and sensible , that I didn't consider it worth while . 
Very likely that was a mistake of mine . 
However , it's soon set right . 
The pale face looked anxiously and lovingly at him , but she shook her head . 
'Can't you speak ? said the boy sharply . 
'I am very unwilling to speak , Charley . 
If I must , I must . 
I cannot authorize you to say any such thing to Mr Headstone I cannot allow you to say any such thing to Mr Headstone . 
Nothing remains to be said to him from me , after what I have said for good and all , to night . 
Don't be hurt by my words . 
I don't mean Heaven forbid ! that you intended it but you hardly know with what a sudden swing you removed yourself from me . 
'However ! said the boy , taking no heed of the remonstrance , and pursuing his own mortified disappointment , 'I know what this means , and you shall not disgrace me . 
'It means what I have told you , Charley , and nothing more . 
'That's not true , said the boy in a violent tone , 'and you know it's not . 
It means your precious Mr Wrayburn that's what it means . 
'Charley ! If you remember any old days of ours together , forbear ! 'But you shall not disgrace me , doggedly pursued the boy . 
'I am determined that after I have climbed up out of the mire , you shall not pull me down . 
You can't disgrace me if I have nothing to do with you , and I will have nothing to do with you for the future . 
'Charley ! On many a night like this , and many a worse night , I have sat on the stones of the street , hushing you in my arms . 
Unsay those words without even saying you are sorry for them , and my arms are open to you still , and so is my heart . 
You are an inveterately bad girl , and a false sister , and I have done with you . 
She remained impassive on the same spot , silent and motionless , until the striking of the church clock roused her , and she turned away . 
But then , with the breaking up of her immobility came the breaking up of the waters that the cold heart of the selfish boy had frozen . 
A figure passed by , and passed on , but stopped and looked round at her . 
It was the figure of an old man with a bowed head , wearing a large brimmed low crowned hat , and a long skirted coat . 
I cannot pass upon my way and leave you weeping here alone , as if there was nothing in the place . 
Take my arm , take my arm . 
What grieves you ? Who has done this ? Poor girl , poor girl ! 'My brother has quarrelled with me , sobbed Lizzie , 'and renounced me . 
'He is a thankless dog , said the Jew , angrily . 
Shake the dust from thy feet and let him go . 
For it is past your usual time , and will soon be late , and the way is long , and there is much company out of doors to night . 
She accepted the support he offered her , and they slowly passed out of the churchyard . 
The Jew having taken in the whole of Eugene at one sharp glance , cast his eyes upon the ground , and stood mute . 
'Lizzie , what is the matter ? 'Mr Wrayburn , I cannot tell you now . 
I cannot tell you to night , if I ever can tell you . 
'But , Lizzie , I came expressly to join you . 
I came to walk home with you , having dined at a coffee house in this neighbourhood and knowing your hour . 
And I have been lingering about , added Eugene , 'like a bailiff or , with a look at Riah , 'an old clothesman . 
The Jew lifted up his eyes , and took in Eugene once more , at another glance . 
'Mr Wrayburn , pray , pray , leave me with this protector . 
Pray , pray be careful of yourself . 
'Mysteries of Udolpho ! said Eugene , with a look of wonder . 
'May I be excused for asking , in the elderly gentleman's presence , who is this kind protector ? 'A trustworthy friend , said Lizzie . 
'I will relieve him of his trust , returned Eugene . 
'But you must tell me , Lizzie , what is the matter ? 'Her brother is the matter , said the old man , lifting up his eyes again . 
'Our brother the matter ? returned Eugene , with airy contempt . 
'Our brother is not worth a thought , far less a tear . 
Mr Aaron , will you have the kindness ? But the old man stood stock still . 
'Good evening , Mr Aaron , said Eugene , politely 'we need not detain you . 
If she requests it , I will do it . 
I will do it for no one else . 
'May I ask why so , Mr Aaron ? said Eugene , quite undisturbed in his ease . 
If she asks me , I will tell her , replied the old man . 
'I will tell no one else . 
'I do not ask you , said Lizzie , 'and I beg you to take me home . 
Mr Wrayburn , I have had a bitter trial to night , and I hope you will not think me ungrateful , or mysterious , or changeable . 
I am neither I am wretched . 
Pray remember what I said to you . 
Pray , pray , take care . 
He snapped his fingers and laughed . 
'Come , said he , 'since no better may be , Mr Aaron and I will divide this trust , and see you home together . 
Mr Aaron on that side I on this . 
If perfectly agreeable to Mr Aaron , the escort will now proceed . 
He knew his power over her . 
He knew that she would not insist upon his leaving her . 
He knew that , her fears for him being aroused , she would be uneasy if he were out of her sight . 
For all his seeming levity and carelessness , he knew whatever he chose to know of the thoughts of her heart . 
Nothing more being said of repairing to Riah's , they went direct to Lizzie's lodging . 
A little short of the house door she parted from them , and went in alone . 
'Mr Aaron , said Eugene , when they were left together in the street , 'with many thanks for your company , it remains for me unwillingly to say Farewell . 
'Sir , returned the other , 'I give you good night , and I wish that you were not so thoughtless . 
'Mr Aaron , returned Eugene , 'I give you good night , and I wish that you were not so thoughtful . 
But now , that his part was played out for the evening , and when in turning his back upon the Jew he came off the stage , he was thoughtful himself . 
'How did Lightwood's catechism run ? he murmured , as he stopped to light his cigar . 
'What is to come of it ? What are you doing ? Where are you going ? We shall soon know now . 
Ah ! with a heavy sigh . 
Howbeit , Twemlow doth at length invest himself with collar and cravat and wristbands to his knuckles , and goeth forth to breakfast . 
And to breakfast with whom but his near neighbours , the Lammles of Sackville Street , who have imparted to him that he will meet his distant kinsman , Mr Fledgely . 
So , Twemlow trips with not a little stiffness across Piccadilly , sensible of having once been more upright in figure and less in danger of being knocked down by swift vehicles . 
Twemlow says nothing , and goes on . 
As he approaches the Lammles' door , drives up a little one horse carriage , containing Tippins the divine . 
Tippins , letting down the window , playfully extols the vigilance of her cavalier in being in waiting there to hand her out . 
Twemlow hands her out with as much polite gravity as if she were anything real , and they proceed upstairs . 
Tippins all abroad about the legs , and seeking to express that those unsteady articles are only skipping in their native buoyancy . 
Pa , here ? No ! Ma , neither ? Oh ! Mr Boots ! Delighted . 
Mr Brewer ! This IS a gathering of the clans . 
Nobody anywhere ! Mr Lammle , all a glitter , produces his friend Fledgeby , as dying for the honour of presentation to Lady Tippins . 
But Lammle has him out again before he has so much as completely ascertained the bareness of the land . 
He would seem to be in a bad way , Fledgeby for Lammle represents him as dying again . 
He is dying now , of want of presentation to Twemlow . 
'Your mother , sir , was a connexion of mine . 
'I believe so , says Fledgeby , 'but my mother and her family were two . 
'Are you staying in town ? asks Twemlow . 
'I always am , says Fledgeby . 
'You like town , says Twemlow . 
But is felled flat by Fledgeby's taking it quite ill , and replying , No , he don't like town . 
Lammle tries to break the force of the fall , by remarking that some people do not like town . 
Fledgeby retorting that he never heard of any such case but his own , Twemlow goes down again heavily . 
'There is nothing new this morning , I suppose ? says Twemlow , returning to the mark with great spirit . 
Fledgeby has not heard of anything . 
'No , there's not a word of news , says Lammle . 
'Not a particle , adds Boots . 
'Not an atom , chimes in Brewer . 
Somehow the execution of this little concerted piece appears to raise the general spirits as with a sense of duty done , and sets the company a going . 
Everybody seems more equal than before , to the calamity of being in the society of everybody else . 
Even Eugene standing in a window , moodily swinging the tassel of a blind , gives it a smarter jerk now , as if he found himself in better case . 
Mr Lammle's servant , of the second class . 
Appearing to be lost in wonder and low spirits because the police are so long in coming to take his master up on some charge of the first magnitude . 
, and Lady Tippins on Mr Lammle's right and left . 
But be sure that well within the fascination of Mr Lammle's eye and smile sits little Georgiana . 
And be sure that close to little Georgiana , also under inspection by the same gingerous gentleman , sits Fledgeby . 
Strange that this impression so abides by Twemlow after being corrected , yet so it is . 
becomes livelier , and applies herself to elicit sparks from Mortimer Lightwood . 
It is always understood among the initiated , that that faithless lover must be planted at table opposite to Lady Tippins , who will then strike conversational fire out of him . 
'Lady Tippins , I exhausted myself for life that day , and there is nothing more to be got out of me . 
'But , quoth the fascinating Tippins , 'I am resolved on getting something more out of you . 
Traitor ! what is this I hear about another disappearance ? 'As it is you who have heard it , returns Lightwood , 'perhaps you'll tell us . 
'Monster , away ! retorts Lady Tippins . 
'Your own Golden Dustman referred me to you . 
Mr Lammle , striking in here , proclaims aloud that there is a sequel to the story of the man from somewhere . 
Silence ensues upon the proclamation . 
'I assure you , says Lightwood , glancing round the table , 'I have nothing to tell . 
But Eugene adding in a low voice , 'There , tell it , tell it ! he corrects himself with the addition , 'Nothing worth mentioning . 
Boots and Brewer immediately perceive that it is immensely worth mentioning , and become politely clamorous . 
Veneering is also visited by a perception to the same effect . 
But it is understood that his attention is now rather used up , and difficult to hold , that being the tone of the House of Commons . 
'Pray don't be at the trouble of composing yourselves to listen , says Mortimer Lightwood , 'because I shall have finished long before you have fallen into comfortable attitudes . 
is Beauty , and he Beast . 
'The reference , proceeds Mortimer , 'which I suppose to be made by my honourable and fair enslaver opposite , is to the following circumstance . 
Although as easy as usual on the surface , Lightwood is not quite as easy as usual below it . 
With an air of not minding Eugene at all , he feels that the subject is not altogether a safe one in that connexion . 
Artichoke professes his readiness so to do , endeavours to do so , but fails . 
'Why fails ? asks Boots . 
'How fails ? asks Brewer . 
'Pardon me , returns Lightwood , I must postpone the reply for one moment , or we shall have an anti climax . 
Artichoke failing signally , my client refers the task to me his purpose being to advance the interests of the object of his search . 
'Vanished ! is the general echo . 
'Nobody knows how , nobody knows when , nobody knows where . 
And so ends the story to which my honourable and fair enslaver opposite referred . 
Tippins , with a bewitching little scream , opines that we shall every one of us be murdered in our beds . 
Eugene eyes her as if some of us would be enough for him . 
Mrs Veneering , W. M. P. , remarks that these social mysteries make one afraid of leaving Baby . 
But he is free to confess that he misses from that board his dear old friend Podsnap , though he is well represented by his dear young friend Georgiana . 
his friend Mr Fledgeby , if he will permit him to call him so . 
He will never forget that at Veneering's he first saw Sophronia . 
Sophronia will never forget that at Veneering's she first saw him . 
'They spoke of it soon after they were married , and agreed that they would never forget it . 
In fact , to Veneering they owe their union . 
He will not apply this to any one present certainly not to their darling little Georgiana . 
Again thank you ! Neither , by the by , will he apply it to his friend Fledgeby . 
He thanks Veneering for the feeling manner in which he referred to their common friend Fledgeby , for he holds that gentleman in the highest estimation . 
, the better you know him , the more you find in him that you desire to know . 
Again thank you ! In his dear Sophronia's name and in his own , thank you ! Mrs Lammle has sat quite still , with her eyes cast down upon the table cloth . 
As Mr Lammle's address ends , Twemlow once more turns to her involuntarily , not cured yet of that often recurring impression that she is going to speak to him . 
This time she really is going to speak to him . 
Veneering is talking with his other next neighbour , and she speaks in a low voice . 
He answers , 'I beg your pardon ? Yes ? Still a little doubtful , because of her not looking at him . 
'You have the soul of a gentleman , and I know I may trust you . 
Will you give me the opportunity of saying a few words to you when you come up stairs ? 'Assuredly . 
'Don't seem to do so , if you please , and don't think it inconsistent if my manner should be more careless than my words . 
Intensely astonished , Twemlow puts his hand to his forehead , and sinks back in his chair meditating . 
The ladies go up stairs . 
The gentlemen soon saunter after them . 
In the drawing room , groups form as usual . 
Lightwood , Boots , and Brewer , flutter like moths around that yellow wax candle guttering down , and with some hint of a winding sheet in it Lady Tippins . 
Outsiders cultivate Veneering , M P. , and Mrs Veneering , W. M. P. Lammle stands with folded arms , Mephistophelean in a corner , with Georgiana and Fledgeby . 
Mrs Lammle , on a sofa by a table , invites Mr Twemlow's attention to a book of portraits in her hand . 
Mr Twemlow takes his station on a settee before her , and Mrs Lammle shows him a portrait . 
'You have reason to be surprised , she says softly , 'but I wish you wouldn't look so . 
Disturbed Twemlow , making an effort not to look so , looks much more so . 
'I think , Mr Twemlow , you never saw that distant connexion of yours before to day ? 'No , never . 
'Now that you do see him , you see what he is . 
You are not proud of him ? 'To say the truth , Mrs Lammle , no . 
'If you knew more of him , you would be less inclined to acknowledge him . 
But Mr Lammle She darts a look at him which he cannot comprehend , and shows him another portrait . 
'Very good is it not ? 'Charming ! says Twemlow . 
It is only in the conviction that I may trust you never to betray me , that I can proceed . 
'Madam , on the honour of a poor gentleman 'Thank you . 
I can desire no more . 
Mr Twemlow , I implore you to save that child ! 'That child ? 'Georgiana . 
She will be inveigled and married to that connexion of yours . 
It is a partnership affair , a money speculation . 
She has no strength of will or character to help herself and she is on the brink of being sold into wretchedness for life . 
'Amazing ! But what can I do to prevent it ? demands Twemlow , shocked and bewildered to the last degree . 
Though he no more sees the portrait than if it were in China . 
'Decidedly not good , says Mrs Lammle . 
'Stiff and exaggerated ! 'And ex But Twemlow , in his demolished state , cannot command the word , and trails off into actly so . 
'Mr Twemlow , your word will have weight with her pompous , self blinded father . 
You know how much he makes of your family . 
'But warn him against whom ? 'Against me . 
By great good fortune Twemlow receives a stimulant at this critical instant . 
The stimulant is Lammle's voice . 
'Sophronia , my dear , what portraits are you showing Twemlow ? 'Public characters , Alfred . 
'Show him the last of me . 
She puts the book down , takes another book up , turns the leaves , and presents the portrait to Twemlow . 
'That is the last of Mr Lammle . 
Do you think it good ? Warn her father against me . 
I deserve it , for I have been in the scheme from the first . 
It is my husband's scheme , your connexion's , and mine . 
I tell you this , only to show you the necessity of the poor little foolish affectionate creature's being befriended and rescued . 
You will not repeat this to her father . 
You will spare me so far , and spare my husband . 
For , though this celebration of to day is all a mockery , he is my husband , and we must live . 
Do you think it like ? Twemlow , in a stunned condition , feigns to compare the portrait in his hand with the original looking towards him from his Mephistophelean corner . 
'Very well indeed ! are at length the words which Twemlow with great difficulty extracts from himself . 
'I am glad you think so . 
On the whole , I myself consider it the best . 
The others are so dark . 
'How warn her father , and not tell him ? Tell him how much ? Tell him how little ? I I am getting lost . 
'Tell him I am a match maker tell him I am an artful and designing woman tell him you are sure his daughter is best out of my house and my company . 
Tell him any such things of me they will all be true . 
You know what a puffed up man he is , and how easily you can cause his vanity to take the alarm . 
Tell him as much as will give him the alarm and make him careful of her , and spare me the rest . 
But I trust to your good faith with me as implicitly as when I began . 
If you knew how often I have tried to speak to you to day , you would almost pity me . 
I want no new promise from you on my own account , for I am satisfied , and I always shall be satisfied , with the promise you have given me . 
I can venture to say no more , for I see that I am watched . 
Alfred , Mr Twemlow thinks the last one the best , and quite agrees with you and me . 
Lady Tippins rises to go , and Mrs Veneering follows her leader . 
For the moment , Mrs Lammle does not turn to them , but remains looking at Twemlow looking at Alfred's portrait through his eyeglass . 
BOOK THE THIRD A LONG LANE Chapter LODGERS IN QUEER STREET It was a foggy day in London , and the fog was heavy and dark . 
At nine o'clock on such a morning , the place of business of Pubsey and Co . 
But the light went out , and the main door opened , and Riah came forth with a bag under his arm . 
Almost in the act of coming out at the door , Riah went into the fog , and was lost to the eyes of Saint Mary Axe . 
But the eyes of this history can follow him westward , by Cornhill , Cheapside , Fleet Street , and the Strand , to Piccadilly and the Albany . 
Arrived at the house in which his master's chambers were on the second floor , Riah proceeded up the stairs , and paused at Fascination Fledgeby's door . 
Making free with neither bell nor knocker , he struck upon the door with the top of his staff , and , having listened , sat down on the threshold . 
At length the door stood open , and Mr Fledgeby's retreating drapery plunged into bed again . 
Following it at a respectful distance , Riah passed into the bed chamber , where a fire had been sometime lighted , and was burning briskly . 
'Sir , it is full half past ten in the morning . 
'The deuce it is ! Then it must be precious foggy ? 'Very foggy , sir . 
With a plunge of enjoyment , Fledgeby settled himself afresh . 
'Any snow , or sleet , or slush , or anything of that sort ? he asked . 
'No , sir , no . 
Not quite so bad as that . 
The streets are pretty clean . 
'You needn't brag about it , returned Fledgeby , disappointed in his desire to heighten the contrast between his bed and the streets . 
'But you're always bragging about something . 
Got the books there ? 'They are here , sir . 
I'll turn the general subject over in my mind for a minute or two , and while I'm about it you can empty your bag and get ready for me . 
With another comfortable plunge , Mr Fledgeby fell asleep again . 
, and a gown and cap to correspond . 
In that costume he would have left nothing to be desired , if he had been further fitted out with a bottomless chair , a lantern , and a bunch of matches . 
'Now , old 'un ! cried Fascination , in his light raillery , 'what dodgery are you up to next , sitting there with your eyes shut ? You ain't asleep . 
Catch a weasel at it , and catch a Jew ! 'Truly , sir , I fear I nodded , said the old man . 
'Not you ! returned Fledgeby , with a cunning look . 
'A telling move with a good many , I dare say , but it won't put ME off my guard . 
Not a bad notion though , if you want to look indifferent in driving a bargain . 
It was an edifying spectacle , the young man in his easy chair taking his coffee , and the old man with his grey head bent , standing awaiting his pleasure . 
'Fork out your balance in hand , and prove by figures how you make it out that it ain't more . 
First of all , light that candle . 
Riah obeyed , and then taking a bag from his breast , and referring to the sum in the accounts for which they made him responsible , told it out upon the table . 
Fledgeby told it again with great care , and rang every sovereign . 
'I suppose , he said , taking one up to eye it closely , 'you haven't been lightening any of these but it's a trade of your people's , you know . 
'May I take the liberty to say something ? 'You may , Fledgeby graciously conceded . 
'Not in justice ? 'Bother justice ! said Fledgeby . 
'Not in generosity ? 'Jews and generosity ! said Fledgeby . 
'That's a good connexion ! Bring out your vouchers , and don't talk Jerusalem palaver . 
The vouchers were produced , and for the next half hour Mr Fledgeby concentrated his sublime attention on them . 
They and the accounts were all found correct , and the books and the papers resumed their places in the bag . 
'Next , said Fledgeby , 'concerning that bill broking branch of the business the branch I like best . 
'Whew ! whistled Fledgeby , as he took it in his hand . 
'Half the lump will be waste paper , one knows beforehand , said Fledgeby . 
'Can you get it at waste paper price ? That's the question . 
Riah shook his head , and Fledgeby cast his small eyes down the list . 
At those times he glanced in the chimney glass to see what note the old man took of him . 
He took none that could be detected , but , aware of his employer's suspicions , stood with his eyes on the ground . 
Mr Fledgeby was thus amiably engaged when a step was heard at the outer door , and the door was heard to open hastily . 
'Hark ! That's your doing , you Pump of Israel , said Fledgeby 'you can't have shut it . 
'Come in ! said Fledgeby . 
'This gentleman is only Pubsey and Co . 
of Saint Mary Axe , that I am trying to make terms for an unfortunate friend with in a matter of some dishonoured bills . 
But really Pubsey and Co . 
are so strict with their debtors , and so hard to move , that I seem to be wasting my time . 
Can't I make ANY terms with you on my friend's part , Mr Riah ? 'I am but the representative of another , sir , returned the Jew in a low voice . 
'I do as I am bidden by my principal . 
It is not my capital that is invested in the business . 
It is not my profit that arises therefrom . 
'Ha ha ! laughed Fledgeby . 
'Lammle ? 'Ha ha ! laughed Lammle . 
'Devilish good , ain't it , Lammle ? said Fledgeby , unspeakably amused by his hidden joke . 
'Always the same , always the same ! said Lammle . 
'Mr 'Riah , Pubsey and Co . 
Saint Mary Axe , Fledgeby put in , as he wiped away the tears that trickled from his eyes , so rare was his enjoyment of his secret joke . 
'Mr Riah is bound to observe the invaRiahle forms for such cases made and provided , said Lammle . 
'He is only the representative of another ! cried Fledgeby . 
'Does as he is told by his principal ! Not his capital that's invested in the business . 
Saint Mary Axe , or of somebody which is far from our intention . 
The old man , who had never raised his eyes during the whole transaction of Mr Fledgeby's joke , silently bowed and passed out by the door which Fledgeby opened for him . 
'There's something wrong ! 'How do you know it ? demanded Lammle . 
'Because you show it , replied Fledgeby in unintentional rhyme . 
'Well then there is , said Lammle 'there IS something wrong the whole thing's wrong . 
'I say ! remonstrated Fascination very slowly , and sitting down with his hands on his knees to stare at his glowering friend with his back to the fire . 
'I tell you , Fledgeby , repeated Lammle , with a sweep of his right arm , 'the whole thing's wrong . 
'What game's up ? demanded Fledgeby , as slowly as before , and more sternly . 
Fledgeby took a note from his extended hand and read it aloud . 
Sir Allow Mrs Podsnap and myself to express our united sense of the polite attentions of Mrs Alfred Lammle and yourself towards our daughter , Georgiana . 
Allow us also , wholly to reject them for the future , and to communicate our final desire that the two families may become entire strangers . 
I have the honour to be , Sir , your most obedient and very humble servant , JOHN PODSNAP . 
'Whose doing is this ? said Fledgeby . 
'Impossible to imagine , said Lammle . 
'Perhaps , suggested Fledgeby , after reflecting with a very discontented brow , 'somebody has been giving you a bad character . 
'Or you , said Lammle , with a deeper frown . 
Mr Fledgeby appeared to be on the verge of some mutinous expressions , when his hand happened to touch his nose . 
A certain remembrance connected with that feature operating as a timely warning , he took it thoughtfully between his thumb and forefinger , and pondered Lammle meanwhile eyeing him with furtive eyes . 
'This won't improve with talking about . 
If we ever find out who did it , we'll mark that person . 
There's nothing more to be said , except that you undertook to do what circumstances prevent your doing . 
'And that you undertook to do what you might have done by this time , if you had made a prompter use of circumstances , snarled Lammle . 
'Hah ! That , remarked Fledgeby , with his hands in the Turkish trousers , 'is matter of opinion . 
Lammle produced it , not without reluctance . 
Fledgeby looked at it , identified it , twisted it up , and threw it into the fire . 
They both looked at it as it blazed , went out , and flew in feathery ash up the chimney . 
'Finally and unreservedly no ? 'Yes . 
Mr Fledgeby took it , saying , 'And if we ever find out who did this , we'll mark that person . 
And in the most friendly manner , let me mention one thing more . 
I don't know what your circumstances are , and I don't ask . 
You have sustained a loss here . 
Many men are liable to be involved at times , and you may be , or you may not be . 
But whatever you do , Lammle , don't don't don't , I beg of you ever fall into the hands of Pubsey and Co . 
in the next room , for they are grinders . 
You have seen what Mr Riah is . 
? 'To confess the fact , I was made a little uneasy , said the candid Fledgeby , 'by the manner in which that Jew looked at you when he heard your name . 
I didn't like his eye . 
But it may have been the heated fancy of a friend . 
Still , I didn't like his eye . 
The brooding Lammle , with certain white dints coming and going in his palpitating nose , looked as if some tormenting imp were pinching it . 
Fledgeby , watching him with a twitch in his mean face which did duty there for a smile , looked very like the tormentor who was pinching . 
'But I mustn't keep him waiting too long , said Fledgeby , 'or he'll revenge it on my unfortunate friend . 
How's your very clever and agreeable wife ? She knows we have broken down ? 'I showed her the letter . 
'Very much surprised ? asked Fledgeby . 
'Don't break out , Lammle , urged Fledgeby , in a submissive tone , 'because there's no occasion . 
I only asked a question . 
Then she don't lay it upon me ? To ask another question . 
'Very good , said Fledgeby , plainly seeing that she did . 
Good bye ! They shook hands , and Lammle strode out pondering . 
Now a word about affairs that are not exactly mine . 
Where is she ? With his hand not yet withdrawn from the breast of his garment , Riah started and paused . 
'Is she in the house I pay rent and taxes for in Saint Mary Axe ? demanded Fledgeby . 
'Is she in your garden up atop of that house gone up to be dead , or whatever the game is ? asked Fledgeby . 
'I won't press that just now . 
But I want to know this , and I will know this , mind you . 
'You can't be a gallivanting dodger , said Fledgeby . 
'For you're a regular pity the sorrows , you know if you DO know any Christian rhyme whose trembling limbs have borne him to et cetrer . 
You're one of the Patriarchs you're a shaky old card and you can't be in love with this Lizzie ? 'O , sir ! expostulated Riah . 
it is in sacred confidence it is strictly upon honour . 
'Honour too ! cried Fledgeby , with a mocking lip . 
'It is upon honour , sir ? the other still stipulated , with respectful firmness . 
Honour bright , said Fledgeby . 
The old man , never bidden to sit down , stood with an earnest hand laid on the back of the young man's easy chair . 
The young man sat looking at the fire with a face of listening curiosity , ready to check him off and catch him tripping . 
'Cut away , said Fledgeby . 
'Sir , I have no motive but to help the helpless . 
Mr Fledgeby could only express the feelings to which this incredible statement gave rise in his breast , by a prodigiously long derisive sniff . 
'Did you ? said Fledgeby , distrustfully . 
Perhaps you did , though . 
'The better I knew her , the more interest I felt in her fortunes . 
They gathered to a crisis . 
'She took to one of the chaps then ? 'Sir , it was only natural that she should incline towards him , for he had many and great advantages . 
But he was not of her station , and to marry her was not in his mind . 
I said , My daughter , there are times of moral danger when the hardest virtuous resolution to form is flight , and when the most heroic bravery is flight . 
She answered , she had had this in her thoughts but whither to fly without help she knew not , and there were none to help her . 
I showed her there was one to help her , and it was I. And she is gone . 
'What did you do with her ? asked Fledgeby , feeling his cheek . 
Fledgeby's eyes had come from the fire to notice the action of his hands when he said 'at a distance . 
But , that it was hopeless to question him on that one reserved point , Fledgeby , with his small eyes too near together , saw full well . 
'Lizzie , said Fledgeby , looking at the fire again , and then looking up . 
You didn't tell me the other name in your garden atop of the house . 
I'll be more communicative with you . 
Riah bent his head in assent . 
'Look here , you sir , said Fledgeby . 
'I have a notion I know something of the inveigling chap , the powerful one . 
Has he anything to do with the law ? 'Nominally , I believe it his calling . 
Name anything like Lightwood ? 'Sir , not at all like . 
'Come , old 'un , said Fledgeby , meeting his eyes with a wink , 'say the name . 
'By Jupiter ! cried Fledgeby . 
Got a beard besides , and presumes upon it . 
Left alone , Mr Fledgeby locked his outer door , and came back to his fire . 
'Well done you ! said Fascination to himself . 
'A tidy shot that , I flatter myself , he then soliloquised . 
'And a Jew brought down with it ! Now , when I heard the story told at Lammle's , I didn't make a jump at Riah . 
Not a hit of it I got at him by degrees . 
Herein he was quite accurate it being his habit , not to jump , or leap , or make an upward spring , at anything in life , but to crawl at everything . 
'I got at him , pursued Fledgeby , feeling for his whisker , 'by degrees . 
If your Lammles or your Lightwoods had got at him anyhow , they would have asked him the question whether he hadn't something to do with that gal's disappearance . 
I knew a better way of going to work . 
Having got behind the hedge , and put him in the light , I took a shot at him and brought him down plump . 
Oh ! It don't count for much , being a Jew , in a match against ME ! Another dry twist in place of a smile , made his face crooked here . 
To work a lot of power over you and you not know it , knowing as you think yourselves , would be almost worth laying out money upon . 
, the murky fog closed about him and shut him up in its sooty embrace . 
If it had never let him out any more , the world would have had no irreparable loss , but could have easily replaced him from its stock on hand . 
Chapter A RESPECTED FRIEND IN A NEW ASPECT In the evening of this same foggy day when the yellow window blind of Pubsey and Co . 
was drawn down upon the day's work , Riah the Jew once more came forth into Saint Mary Axe . 
But this time he carried no bag , and was not bound on his master's affairs . 
His tap at the glass roused her from the musing solitude in which she sat , and she came to the door to open it aiding her steps with a little crutch stick . 
'Good evening , godmother ! said Miss Jenny Wren . 
The old man laughed , and gave her his arm to lean on . 
'Won't you come in and warm yourself , godmother ? asked Miss Jenny Wren . 
'Not if you are ready , Cinderella , my dear . 
'Well ! exclaimed Miss Wren , delighted . 
, you should have the first silver medal , for taking me up so quick . 
Satisfied that her dwelling was safe , she drew one hand through the old man's arm and prepared to ply her crutch stick with the other . 
But the key was an instrument of such gigantic proportions , that before they started Riah proposed to carry it . 
'No , no , no ! I'll carry it myself , returned Miss Wren . 
'I'm awfully lopsided , you know , and stowed down in my pocket it'll trim the ship . 
To let you into a secret , godmother , I wear my pocket on my high side , o' purpose . 
With that they began their plodding through the fog . 
'Yes , it was truly sharp of you , godmother , resumed Miss Wren with great approbation , 'to understand me . 
Boh ! cried Miss Jenny , putting her face close to the old man's . 
'I can see your features , godmother , behind the beard . 
I say ! Let's believe so ! 'With all my heart , replied the good old man . 
'And I'll tell you what I must ask you to do , godmother . 
I must ask you to be so kind as give my child a tap , and change him altogether . 
O my child has been such a bad , bad child of late ! It worries me nearly out of my wits . 
Not done a stroke of work these ten days . 
Has had the horrors , too , and fancied that four copper coloured men in red wanted to throw him into a fiery furnace . 
'But that's dangerous , Jenny . 
'Dangerous , godmother ? My child is always dangerous , more or less . 
He might' here the little creature glanced back over her shoulder at the sky 'be setting the house on fire at this present moment . 
I don't know who would have a child , for my part ! It's no use shaking him . 
I have shaken him till I have made myself giddy . 
Why don't you mind your Commandments and honour your parent , you naughty old boy ? I said to him all the time . 
But he only whimpered and stared at me . 
'What shall be changed , after him ? asked Riah in a compassionately playful voice . 
'Upon my word , godmother , I am afraid I must be selfish next , and get you to set me right in the back and the legs . 
It's a little thing to you with your power , godmother , but it's a great deal to poor weak aching me . 
There was no querulous complaining in the words , but they were not the less touching for that . 
'And then ? 'Yes , and then YOU know , godmother . 
We'll both jump up into the coach and six and go to Lizzie . 
This reminds me , godmother , to ask you a serious question . 
, and you can tell me this Is it better to have had a good thing and lost it , or never to have had it ? 'Explain , god daughter . 
'I feel so much more solitary and helpless without Lizzie now , than I used to feel before I knew her . 
You had better change Is into Was and Was into Is , and keep them so . 
'Would that suit your case ? Would you not be always in pain then ? asked the old man tenderly . 
'Right ! exclaimed Miss Wren with another chop . 
'You have changed me wiser , godmother . 
Not , she added with the quaint hitch of her chin and eyes , 'that you need be a very wonderful godmother to do that deed . 
'Pretty , pretty , pretty ! said the old man with a clap of his hands . 
'Most elegant taste ! 'Glad you like 'em , returned Miss Wren , loftily . 
'But the fun is , godmother , how I make the great ladies try my dresses on . 
Though it's the hardest part of my business , and would be , even if my back were not bad and my legs queer . 
He looked at her as not understanding what she said . 
'Bless you , godmother , said Miss Wren , 'I have to scud about town at all hours . 
'How , the trying on ? asked Riah . 
'What a mooney godmother you are , after all ! returned Miss Wren . 
There's a Drawing Room , or a grand day in the Park , or a Show , or a Fete , or what you like . 
I squeeze among the crowd , and I look about me . 
Then another day , I come scudding back again to try on , and then I take particular notice of her again . 
Sometimes she plainly seems to say , 'How that little creature is staring ! and sometimes likes it and sometimes don't , but much more often yes than no . 
However , there I have 'em , just the same . 
I made her do double duty in one night . 
I said when she came out of the carriage , YOU'll do , my dear ! and I ran straight home and cut her out and basted her . 
Back I came again , and waited behind the men that called the carriages . 
At last , Lady Belinda Whitrose's carriage ! Lady Belinda Whitrose coming down ! And I made her try on oh ! and take pains about it too before she got seated . 
That's Lady Belinda hanging up by the waist , much too near the gaslight for a wax one , with her toes turned in . 
When they had plodded on for some time nigh the river , Riah asked the way to a certain tavern called the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters . 
Following the directions he received , they arrived , after two or three puzzled stoppages for consideration , and some uncertain looking about them , at the door of Miss Abbey Potterson's dominions . 
A peep through the glass portion of the door revealed to them the glories of the bar , and Miss Abbey herself seated in state on her snug throne , reading the newspaper . 
To whom , with deference , they presented themselves . 
'You not only could , but you can and you do , replied the hostess . 
'Might we speak with you , madam ? By this time Miss Abbey's eyes had possessed themselves of the small figure of Miss Jenny Wren . 
For the closer observation of which , Miss Abbey laid aside her newspaper , rose , and looked over the half door of the bar . 
'My name is Riah , said the old man , with courteous action , 'and my avocation is in London city . 
This , my young companion 'Stop a bit , interposed Miss Wren . 
'I'll give the lady my card . 
She produced it from her pocket with an air , after struggling with the gigantic door key which had got upon the top of it and kept it down . 
Miss Abbey , with manifest tokens of astonishment , took the diminutive document , and found it to run concisely thus MISS JENNY WREN DOLLS' DRESSMAKER . 
Dolls attended at their own residences . 
'Lud ! exclaimed Miss Potterson , staring . 
'We take the liberty of coming , my young companion and I , madam , said Riah , 'on behalf of Lizzie Hexam . 
Miss Potterson was stooping to loosen the bonnet strings of the dolls' dressmaker . 
She looked round rather angrily , and said 'Lizzie Hexam is a very proud young woman . 
'For the country , was the cautious answer , 'she made us promise to come and show you a paper , which she left in our hands for that special purpose . 
I am an unserviceable friend of hers , who began to know her after her departure from this neighbourhood . 
She has been for some time living with my young companion , and has been a helpful and a comfortable friend to her . 
Much needed , madam , he added , in a lower voice . 
'Believe me if you knew all , much needed . 
'I can believe that , said Miss Abbey , with a softening glance at the little creature . 
And if it's not , she is NOT . 
Her set purpose of contradicting Miss Abbey point blank , was so far from offending that dread authority , as to elicit a gracious smile . 
'You do right , child , said Miss Abbey , 'to speak well of those who deserve well of you . 
'Here is the paper , madam , said the Jew , delivering into Miss Potterson's hands the original document drawn up by Rokesmith , and signed by Riderhood . 
'Will you please to read it ? 'But first of all , said Miss Abbey , did you ever taste shrub , child ? Miss Wren shook her head . 
'Should you like to ? 'Should if it's good , returned Miss Wren . 
And , if you find it good , I'll mix some for you with hot water . 
Put your poor little feet on the fender . 
It's a cold , cold night , and the fog clings so . 
As Miss Abbey helped her to turn her chair , her loosened bonnet dropped on the floor . 
'Why , what lovely hair ! cried Miss Abbey . 
'And enough to make wigs for all the dolls in the world . 
What a quantity ! 'Call THAT a quantity ? returned Miss Wren . 
Miss Abbey's admiration seemed to increase her perplexity . 
'You are talking about Me , good people , thought Miss Jenny , sitting in her golden bower , warming her feet . 
that Rogue Riderhood is a villain . 
I have my doubts whether he is not the villain who solely did the deed but I have no expectation of those doubts ever being cleared up now . 
I am very sorry to have done a man wrong , particularly when it can't be undone . 
She knows Miss Abbey of old , remind her , and she knows what like the home , and what like the friend , is likely to turn out . 
But before the shrub and water was sipped out , Miss Abbey bethought herself that she would like to keep a copy of the paper by her . 
'It's not long , sir , said she to Riah , 'and perhaps you wouldn't mind just jotting it down . 
, wrote out the copy in a fair round character . 
A moment more , and Bob Gliddery came clattering along the passage , with the noise of all the nails in his boots condensed into every separate nail . 
'What is it ? asked Miss Abbey . 
'It's summut run down in the fog , ma'am , answered Bob . 
'There's ever so many people in the river . 
'Tell 'em to put on all the kettles ! cried Miss Abbey . 
'See that the boiler's full . 
Hang some blankets to the fire . 
Have your senses about you , you girls down stairs , and use 'em . 
'Come and look , said Miss Abbey to her visitors . 
They all three hurried to the vacated public room , and passed by one of the windows into the wooden verandah overhanging the river . 
'Does anybody down there know what has happened ? demanded Miss Abbey , in her voice of authority . 
'It's a steamer , Miss Abbey , cried one blurred figure in the fog . 
'It always IS a steamer , Miss Abbey , cried another . 
'Them's her lights , Miss Abbey , wot you see a blinking yonder , cried another . 
'She's a blowing off her steam , Miss Abbey , and that's what makes the fog and the noise worse , don't you see ? explained another . 
Boats were putting off , torches were lighting up , people were rushing tumultuously to the water's edge . 
Some man fell in with a splash , and was pulled out again with a roar of laughter . 
The drags were called for . 
A cry for the life buoy passed from mouth to mouth . 
It was impossible to make out what was going on upon the river , for every boat that put off sculled into the fog and was lost to view at a boat's length . 
Nothing was clear but that the unpopular steamer was assailed with reproaches on all sides . 
The whole bulk of the fog teemed with such taunts , uttered in tones of universal hoarseness . 
All the while , the steamer's lights moved spectrally a very little , as she lay to , waiting the upshot of whatever accident had happened . 
Now , she began burning blue lights . 
It appeared to Miss Abbey and her two companions that a considerable time had been thus occupied . 
'If that's Tom Tootle , Miss Abbey made proclamation , in her most commanding tones , 'let him instantly come underneath here . 
The submissive Tom complied , attended by a crowd . 
'What is it , Tootle ? demanded Miss Abbey . 
'It's a foreign steamer , miss , run down a wherry . 
'How many in the wherry ? 'One man , Miss Abbey . 
He's been under water a long time , Miss but they've grappled up the body . 
'Let 'em bring it here . 
You , Bob Gliddery , shut the house door and stand by it on the inside , and don't you open till I tell you . 
Any police down there ? 'Here , Miss Abbey , was official rejoinder . 
'After they have brought the body in , keep the crowd out , will you ? And help Bob Gliddery to shut 'em out . 
'All right , Miss Abbey . 
'You two stand close here , said Miss Abbey , 'and you'll come to no hurt , and see it brought in . 
Bob , you stand by the door . 
That sentinel , smartly giving his rolled shirt sleeves an extra and a final tuck on his shoulders , obeyed . 
Sound of advancing voices , sound of advancing steps . 
Two peculiarly blunt knocks or pokes at the door , as if the dead man arriving on his back were striking at it with the soles of his motionless feet . 
'That's the stretcher , or the shutter , whichever of the two they are carrying , said Miss Abbey , with experienced ear . 
'Open , you Bob ! Door opened . 
Heavy tread of laden men . 
Baffled boots from the vexed souls of disappointed outsiders . 
'Come on , men ! said Miss Abbey for so potent was she with her subjects that even then the bearers awaited her permission . 
The entry being low , and the staircase being low , they so took up the burden they had set down , as to carry that low . 
The recumbent figure , in passing , lay hardly as high as the half door . 
Miss Abbey started back at sight of it . 
'Why , good God ! said she , turning to her two companions , 'that's the very man who made the declaration we have just had in our hands . 
'Fetch a doctor , quoth Miss Abbey . 
And then , 'Fetch his daughter . 
On both of which errands , quick messengers depart . 
The doctor seeking messenger meets the doctor halfway , coming under convoy of police . 
Doctor examines the dank carcase , and pronounces , not hopefully , that it is worth while trying to reanimate the same . 
All the best means are at once in action , and everybody present lends a hand , and a heart and soul . 
Mr Tootle is so far figurative , touching the dismemberment , as that he means the boat , and not the man . 
For , the man lies whole before them . 
, who are quite enough . 
Miss Abbey having looked in to make sure that nothing is wanted , descends to the bar , and there awaits the result , with the gentle Jew and Miss Jenny Wren . 
If you are not gone for good , Mr Riderhood , it would be something to know where you are hiding at present . 
This flabby lump of mortality that we work so hard at with such patient perseverance , yields no sign of you . 
If you are gone for good , Rogue , it is very solemn , and if you are coming back , it is hardly less so . 
Stay ! Did that eyelid tremble ? So the doctor , breathing low , and closely watching , asks himself . 
Neither Riderhood in this world , nor Riderhood in the other , could draw tears from them but a striving human soul between the two can do it easily . 
He is struggling to come back . 
Now , he is almost here , now he is far away again . 
Now he is struggling harder to get back . 
Bob Gliddery returns with Pleasant Riderhood , who was out when sought for , and hard to find . 
She has a shawl over her head , and her first action , when she takes it off weeping , and curtseys to Miss Abbey , is to wind her hair up . 
'Thank you , Miss Abbey , for having father here . 
'I am bound to say , girl , I didn't know who it was , returns Miss Abbey 'but I hope it would have been pretty much the same if I had known . 
Poor Pleasant , fortified with a sip of brandy , is ushered into the first floor chamber . 
Her natural woman's aptitude soon renders her able to give a little help . 
Some hazy idea that if affairs could remain thus for a long time it would be a respectable change , floats in her mind . 
In which state of mind she kisses the stony lips , and quite believes that the impassive hand she chafes will revive a tender hand , if it revive ever . 
Sweet delusion for Pleasant Riderhood . 
Tom Tootle , who is nearest to the doctor when he says this , grasps the doctor fervently by the hand . 
Bob Glamour , William Williams , and Jonathan of the no surname , all shake hands with one another round , and with the doctor too . 
Bob Glamour blows his nose , and Jonathan of the no surname is moved to do likewise , but lacking a pocket handkerchief abandons that outlet for his emotion . 
Pleasant sheds tears deserving her own name , and her sweet delusion is at its height . 
There is intelligence in his eyes . 
He wants to ask a question . 
He wonders where he is . 
'Father , you were run down on the river , and are at Miss Abbey Potterson's . 
He stares at his daughter , stares all around him , closes his eyes , and lies slumbering on her arm . 
The short lived delusion begins to fade . 
The low , bad , unimpressible face is coming up from the depths of the river , or what other depths , to the surface again . 
As he grows warm , the doctor and the four men cool . 
As his lineaments soften with life , their faces and their hearts harden to him . 
'He will do now , says the doctor , washing his hands , and looking at the patient with growing disfavour . 
'Many a better man , moralizes Tom Tootle with a gloomy shake of the head , 'ain't had his luck . 
'It's to be hoped he'll make a better use of his life , says Bob Glamour , 'than I expect he will . 
'Or than he done afore , adds William Williams . 
'But no , not he ! says Jonathan of the no surname , clinching the quartette . 
Intelligence is conveyed to Miss Abbey in the bar , who reappears on the scene , and contemplates from a distance , holding whispered discourse with the doctor . 
This they all do , leaving the daughter watching the father . 
To whom , in their absence , Bob Gliddery presents himself . 
'His gills looks rum don't they ? says Bob , after inspecting the patient . 
'His gills'll look rummer when he wakes won't they ? says Bob . 
Why ? 'When he finds himself here , you know , Bob explains . 
'Cause Miss Abbey forbid him the house and ordered him out of it . 
But what you may call the Fates ordered him into it again . 
Which is rumness ain't it ? 'He wouldn't have come here of his own accord , returns poor Pleasant , with an effort at a little pride . 
'Nor he wouldn't have been let in , if he had . 
The short delusion is quite dispelled now . 
As plainly as she sees on her arm the old father , unimproved , Pleasant sees that everybody there will cut him when he recovers consciousness . 
'I'll take him away ever so soon as I can , thinks Pleasant with a sigh 'he's best at home . 
Presently they all return , and wait for him to become conscious that they will all be glad to get rid of him . 
Some clothes are got together for him to wear , his own being saturated with water , and his present dress being composed of blankets . 
'Well , Riderhood , says the doctor , 'how do you feel ? He replies gruffly , 'Nothing to boast on . 
Having , in fact , returned to life in an uncommonly sulky state . 
'I don't mean to preach but I hope , says the doctor , gravely shaking his head , 'that this escape may have a good effect upon you , Riderhood . 
exactly as if he had just had a Fight . 
'Warn't it a steamer ? he pauses to ask her . 
'I'll have the law on her , bust her ! and make her pay for it . 
He then buttons his linen very moodily , twice or thrice stopping to examine his arms and hands , as if to see what punishment he has received in the Fight . 
He then doggedly demands his other garments , and slowly gets them on , with an appearance of great malevolence towards his late opponent and all the spectators . 
'Where's my fur cap ? he asks in a surly voice , when he has shuffled his clothes on . 
'In the river , somebody rejoins . 
'And warn't there no honest man to pick it up ? O' course there was though , and to cut off with it arterwards . 
It was kept morally , rather as a Fast than a Feast , enabling Mrs Wilfer to hold a sombre darkling state , which exhibited that impressive woman in her choicest colours . 
The noble lady's condition on these delightful occasions was one compounded of heroic endurance and heroic forgiveness . 
So firmly had this his position towards his treasure become established , that when the anniversary arrived , it always found him in an apologetic state . 
The revolving year now bringing the day round in its orderly sequence , Bella arrived in the Boffin chariot to assist at the celebration . 
They were there received by Mrs Wilfer in person , whose dignity on this , as on most special occasions , was heightened by a mysterious toothache . 
'I shall not require the carriage at night , said Bella . 
'Well , dear Ma , said Bella , 'and how do you do ? 'I am as well , Bella , replied Mrs Wilfer , 'as can be expected . 
It's all very well to laugh , Bella , but anything more exasperating it is impossible to conceive . 
Mrs Wilfer , with a look too full of majesty to be accompanied by any words , attended both her daughters to the kitchen , where the sacrifice was to be prepared . 
'Mr Rokesmith , said she , resignedly , 'has been so polite as to place his sitting room at our disposal to day . 
Your papa invited Mr Rokesmith to partake of our lowly fare . 
In excusing himself on account of a particular engagement , he offered the use of his apartment . 
Bella happened to know that he had no engagement out of his own room at Mr Boffin's , but she approved of his staying away . 
'We should only have put one another out of countenance , she thought , 'and we do that quite often enough as it is . 
Yet she had sufficient curiosity about his room , to run up to it with the least possible delay , and make a close inspection of its contents . 
It was tastefully though economically furnished , and very neatly arranged . 
She shrank from this ghostly surprise , and felt quite frightened as she rolled and tied it up again . 
Peeping about here and there , she came upon a print , a graceful head of a pretty woman , elegantly framed , hanging in the corner by the easy chair . 
'Oh , indeed , sir ! said Bella , after stopping to ruminate before it . 
'Oh , indeed , sir ! I fancy I can guess whom you think THAT'S like . 
But I'll tell you what it's much more like your impudence ! Having said which she decamped not solely because she was offended , but because there was nothing else to look at . 
I mean to be Cook today . 
'Hold ! rejoined her majestic mother . 
'YOU cook ? said Mrs Wilfer . 
'YOU , who never cooked when you were at home ? 'Yes , Ma , returned Bella 'that is precisely the state of the case . 
Over this bib her dimples looked delightful , and under it her pretty figure not less so . 
'First , then , you put the fowls down to the fire . 
'To be sure ! cried Bella 'and flour them , and twirl them round , and there they go ! sending them spinning at a great rate . 
Preparation of the greens will further become necessary if you persist in this unseemly demeanour . 
'As of course I do , Ma . 
But it was pleasant cookery too . 
Meantime Miss Lavinia , oscillating between the kitchen and the opposite room , prepared the dining table in the latter chamber . 
'Look at Ma , whispered Lavinia to Bella when this was done , and they stood over the roasting fowls . 
'My dear , he couldn't do it , said Lavvy . 
'What should be the matter with Me ? 'You don't seem very brisk , Ma , retorted Lavvy the bold . 
Still , on the whole , it is possible to be too boastful even of that boon . 
'I congratulate you , Mrs Wilfer , said Mr George Sampson , who had meditated this neat address while coming along , 'on the day . 
Mrs Wilfer thanked him with a magnanimous sigh , and again became an unresisting prey to that inscrutable toothache . 
'I am surprised , said Mr Sampson feebly , 'that Miss Bella condescends to cook . 
Here Miss Lavinia descended on the ill starred young gentleman with a crushing supposition that at all events it was no business of his . 
This disposed of Mr Sampson in a melancholy retirement of spirit , until the cherub arrived , whose amazement at the lovely woman's occupation was great . 
'I rather think it is because they are not done . 
'They ought to be , said Bella . 
'Yes , I am aware they ought to be , my dear , rejoined her father , 'but they ain't . 
'Because , my dear , you seem a little out of sorts . 
'Not at all , would be the rejoinder , in exactly the same tone . 
'Would you take a merry thought , my dear ? 'Thank you . 
Bella had brought dessert and two bottles of wine , thus shedding unprecedented splendour on the occasion . 
Mrs Wilfer did the honours of the first glass by proclaiming 'R . 
W. I drink to you . 
'Thank you , my dear . 
'Pa and Ma ! said Bella . 
'Permit me , Mrs Wilfer interposed , with outstretched glove . 
I drank to your papa . 
If , however , you insist on including me , I can in gratitude offer no objection . 
I beg nay , command ! that you will not pounce . 
R. W. , it is appropriate to recall that it is for you to command and for me to obey . 
It is your house , and you are master at your own table . 
Both our healths ! Drinking the toast with tremendous stiffness . 
'I really am a little afraid , my dear , hinted the cherub meekly , 'that you are not enjoying yourself ? 'On the contrary , returned Mrs Wilfer , 'quite so . 
'The mind naturally falls , said Mrs Wilfer , 'shall I say into a reverie , or shall I say into a retrospect ? on a day like this . 
, 'For goodness' sake say whichever of the two you like best , Ma , and get it over . 
'The mind , pursued Mrs Wilfer in an oratorical manner , 'naturally reverts to Papa and Mamma I here allude to my parents at a period before the earliest dawn of this day . 
I was considered tall perhaps I was . 
Papa and Mamma were unquestionably tall . 
I have rarely seen a finer women than my mother never than my father . 
The irrepressible Lavvy remarked aloud , 'Whatever grandpapa was , he wasn't a female . 
It was one of mamma's cherished hopes that I should become united to a tall member of society . 
It may have been a weakness , but if so , it was equally the weakness , I believe , of King Frederick of Prussia . 
'Mamma would appear to have had an indefinable foreboding of what afterwards happened , for she would frequently urge upon me , Not a little man . 
Promise me , my child , not a little man . 
, that a family of whales must not ally themselves with sprats . 
His company was eagerly sought , as may be supposed , by the wits of the day , and our house was their continual resort . 
I have known as many as three copper plate engravers exchanging the most exquisite sallies and retorts there , at one time . 
'Among the most prominent members of that distinguished circle , was a gentleman measuring six feet four in height . 
HE was NOT an engraver . 
'This gentleman was so obliging as to honour me with attentions which I could not fail to understand . 
'I immediately announced to both my parents that those attentions were misplaced , and that I could not favour his suit . 
They inquired was he too tall ? I replied it was not the stature , but the intellect was too lofty . 
Within a month , said Mrs Wilfer , deepening her voice , as if she were relating a terrible ghost story , 'within a month , I first saw R. W. my husband . 
Within a year , I married him . 
It is natural for the mind to recall these dark coincidences on the present day . 
The wretched Mr Sampson's position at this agreeable entertainment was truly pitiable . 
could do what she liked with him , and partly to pay him off for still obviously admiring Bella's beauty , led him the life of a dog . 
The rosy hours were thus beguiled until it was time for Bella to have Pa's escort back . 
'Well , dear Pa , said Bella , 'the anniversary may be considered over . 
'Yes , my dear , returned the cherub , 'there's another of 'em gone . 
Bella drew his arm closer through hers as they walked along , and gave it a number of consolatory pats . 
'Thank you , my dear , he said , as if she had spoken 'I am all right , my dear . 
Well , and how do you get on , Bella ? 'I am not at all improved , Pa . 
'Ain't you really though ? 'No , Pa . 
On the contrary , I am worse . 
'Lor ! said the cherub . 
'I am worse , Pa . 
Did you notice any wrinkles over my nose this evening , Pa ? Pa laughing at this , Bella gave him two or three shakes . 
'You won't laugh , sir , when you see your lovely woman turning haggard . 
You had better be prepared in time , I can tell you . 
Now , sir , we entered into a bond of confidence . 
Have you anything to impart ? 'I thought it was you who was to impart , my love . 
'Oh ! did you indeed , sir ? Then why didn't you ask me , the moment we came out ? The confidences of lovely women are not to be slighted . 
And now I am going seriously to tell you let me see how many four secrets . 
Mind ! Serious , grave , weighty secrets . 
'Number one , my dear ? said her father , settling her arm comfortably and confidentially . 
'Number one , said Bella , 'will electrify you , Pa . 
'You don't tell me so , my dear ! 'Mis ter Roke smith , Pa , said Bella separating the syllables for emphasis . 
'What do you say to THAT ? Pa answered quietly with the counter question , 'What did YOU say to that , my love ? 'I said No , returned Bella sharply . 
Of course , said her father , meditating . 
'And I told him why I thought it a betrayal of trust on his part , and an affront to me , said Bella . 
I wonder he committed himself without seeing more of his way first . 
Now I think of it , I suspect he always has admired you though , my dear . 
'A hackney coachman may admire me , remarked Bella , with a touch of her mother's loftiness . 
'It's highly probable , my love . 
Number two , my dear ? 'Number two , Pa , is much to the same purpose , though not so preposterous . 
Mr Lightwood would propose to me , if I would let him . 
'I don't care for him , said Bella . 
'That's enough , her father interposed . 
'No , Pa , it's NOT enough , rejoined Bella , giving him another shake or two . 
'Hah ! said the cherub , a little depressed . 
'Number three , my dear ? 'Number three , Pa , is a better thing . 
A generous thing , a noble thing , a delightful thing . 
Here the grateful girl burst out crying very heartily . 
I congratulate you with all my heart , my dear . 
At every one of her adjectives she redoubled her kisses , and finally kissed his hat off , and then laughed immoderately when the wind took it and he ran after it . 
'After all , perhaps I had better put off number four , Pa . 
Let me try once more , if for never so short a time , to hope that it may not really be so . 
'And yet I know right well it is so , Pa . 
I know it only too well . 
'My love , returned her father , 'you make me quite uncomfortable . 
Have you said No to anybody else , my dear ? 'No , Pa . 
'Yes to anybody ? he suggested , lifting up his eyebrows . 
'Is there anybody else who would take his chance between Yes and No , if you would let him , my dear ? 'Not that I know of , Pa . 
'There can't be somebody who won't take his chance when you want him to ? said the cherub , as a last resource . 
'Why , of course not , Pa , said Bella , giving him another shake or two . 
'No , of course not , he assented . 
'Bella , my dear , I am afraid I must either have no sleep to night , or I must press for number four . 
But Mr Boffin is being spoilt by prosperity , and is changing every day . 
'My dear Bella , I hope and trust not . 
'I have hoped and trusted not too , Pa but every day he changes for the worse , and for the worse . 
Not to me he is always much the same to me but to others about him . 
Before my eyes he grows suspicious , capricious , hard , tyrannical , unjust . 
If ever a good man were ruined by good fortune , it is my benefactor . 
We shall know full soon . 
On that very night of her return from the Happy Return , something chanced which Bella closely followed with her eyes and ears . 
There was an apartment at the side of the Boffin mansion , known as Mr Boffin's room . 
Mr and Mrs Boffin were reported sitting in this room , when Bella got back . 
'You are busy , sir , said Bella , hesitating at the door . 
'Not at all , my dear , not at all . 
We never make company of you . 
Come in , come in . 
Here's the old lady in her usual place . 
Mrs Boffin adding her nod and smile of welcome to Mr Boffin's words , Bella took her book to a chair in the fireside corner , by Mrs Boffin's work table . 
Mr Boffin's station was on the opposite side . 
'Don't be above calling it wages , man , said Mr Boffin , testily . 
'What the deuce ! I never talked of any salary when I was in service . 
'My wages , said the Secretary , correcting himself . 
'Rokesmith , you are not proud , I hope ? observed Mr Boffin , eyeing him askance . 
'I hope not , sir . 
'Because I never was , when I was poor , said Mr Boffin . 
'Poverty and pride don't go at all well together . 
How can they go well together ? Why it stands to reason . 
A man , being poor , has nothing to be proud of . 
With a slight inclination of his head , and a look of some surprise , the Secretary seemed to assent by forming the syllables of the word 'nonsense' on his lips . 
'Now , concerning these same wages , said Mr Boffin . 
'Why didn't you sit down before ? asked Mr Boffin , distrustfully . 
'I hope that wasn't pride ? But about these wages . 
Now , I've gone into the matter , and I say two hundred a year . 
What do you think of it ? Do you think it's enough ? 'Thank you . 
It is a fair proposal . 
'I don't say , you know , Mr Boffin stipulated , 'but what it may be more than enough . 
And I'll tell you why , Rokesmith . 
A man of property , like me , is bound to consider the market price . 
I mustn't go putting the market price up , because money may happen not to be an object with me . 
A sheep is worth so much in the market , and I ought to give it and no more . 
A secretary is worth so much in the market , and I ought to give it and no more . 
However , I don't mind stretching a point with you . 
'Mr Boffin , you are very good , replied the Secretary , with an effort . 
'Then we put the figure , said Mr Boffin , 'at two hundred a year . 
Then the figure's disposed of . 
Now , there must be no misunderstanding regarding what I buy for two hundred a year . 
If I pay for a sheep , I buy it out and out . 
Similarly , if I pay for a secretary , I buy HIM out and out . 
'In other words , you purchase my whole time ? 'Certainly I do . 
But I want to keep you in attendance . 
It's convenient to have you at all times ready on the premises . 
Therefore , betwixt your breakfast and your supper , on the premises I expect to find you . 
You've rather got into a habit of that , lately but perhaps it was for want of a right specification betwixt us . 
Now , let there be a right specification betwixt us , and let it be this . 
If you want leave , ask for it . 
His manner was uneasy and astonished , and showed a sense of humiliation . 
'I'll have a bell , said Mr Boffin , 'hung from this room to yours , and when I want you , I'll touch it . 
I don't call to mind that I have anything more to say at the present moment . 
The Secretary rose , gathered up his papers , and withdrew . 
Bella's eyes followed him to the door , lighted on Mr Boffin complacently thrown back in his easy chair , and drooped over her book . 
'I have let that chap , that young man of mine , said Mr Boffin , taking a trot up and down the room , get above his work . 
I must have him down a peg . 
A man of property owes a duty to other men of property , and must look sharp after his inferiors . 
For which reason Bella's eyes drooped more engrossedly over her book , and she turned the page with an air of profound absorption in it . 
'Noddy , said Mrs Boffin , after thoughtfully pausing in her work . 
'My dear , returned the Golden Dustman , stopping short in his trot . 
'Hope so , deary ? 'Our old selves wouldn't do here , old lady . 
Haven't you found that out yet ? Our old selves would be fit for nothing here but to be robbed and imposed upon . 
Our old selves weren't people of fortune our new selves are it's a great difference . 
'Ah ! said Mrs Boffin , pausing in her work again , softly to draw a long breath and to look at the fire . 
'And we must be up to the difference , pursued her husband 'we must be equal to the change that's what we must be . 
, and we have got to recollect that money makes money , as well as makes everything else . 
But we hadn't tried what it was to have the rest then . 
Our new shoes had come home , but we hadn't put 'em on . 
We're wearing 'em now , we're wearing 'em , and must step out accordingly . 
Mrs Boffin took up her work again , and plied her needle in silence . 
I have found out that you must either scrunch them , or let them scrunch you . 
that they have heard of your beginnings . 
There's nothing betwixt stiffening yourself up , and throwing yourself away take my word for that , old lady . 
Bella ventured for a moment to look stealthily towards him under her eyelashes , and she saw a dark cloud of suspicion , covetousness , and conceit , overshadowing the once open face . 
'Hows'ever , said he , 'this isn't entertaining to Miss Bella . 
'That's right , that's right . 
Especially as you have no call to be told how to value yourself , my dear . 
Colouring a little under this compliment , Bella returned , 'I hope sir , you don't think me vain ? 'Not a bit , my dear , said Mr Boffin . 
'But I think it's very creditable in you , at your age , to be so well up with the pace of the world , and to know what to go in for . 
Go in for money , my love . 
You'll make money of your good looks , and of the money Mrs Boffin and me will have the pleasure of settling upon you , and you'll live and die rich . 
That's the state to live and die in ! said Mr Boffin , in an unctuous manner . 
'Eh ? cried Mr Boffin . 
No , I must say that much , Noddy . 
You are always the best of men . 
She made the declaration as if he were objecting to it which assuredly he was not in any way . 
'Says too ! cried Mr Boffin . 
'Whatever he says ! Why , I say so , openly . 
Give me a kiss , my dear child , in saying Good Night , and let me confirm what my old lady tells you . 
I am very fond of you , my dear , and I am entirely of your mind , and you and I will take care that you shall be rich . 
are worth money , and you shall make money of 'em . 
The money you will have , will be worth money , and you shall make money of that too . 
There's a golden ball at your feet . 
Good night , my dear . 
Somehow , Bella was not so well pleased with this assurance and this prospect as she might have been . 
'Why , what need to excuse him ? thought Bella , sitting down in her own room . 
'What he said was very sensible , I am sure , and very true , I am sure . 
It is only what I often say to myself . 
Don't I like it then ? No , I don't like it , and , though he is my liberal benefactor , I disparage him for it . 
And again in the morning , she looked for the cloud , and for the deepening of the cloud , upon the Golden Dustman's face . 
Having been hard at work in one dull enclosure all his life , he had a child's delight in looking at shops . 
It had been one of the first novelties and pleasures of his freedom , and was equally the delight of his wife . 
But now , Mr Boffin's interest began to centre in book shops and more than that for that of itself would not have been much in one exceptional kind of book . 
Now , look well about you , my dear , and tell me if you see any book about a Miser . 
If Bella saw such a book , Mr Boffin would instantly dart in and buy it . 
Bella , thus directed , would examine the window with the greatest attention , while Mr Boffin would examine her face . 
Size , price , quality , were of no account . 
Any book that seemed to promise a chance of miserly biography , Mr Boffin purchased without a moment's delay and carried home . 
The completion of this labour occupied them about a fortnight . 
When the task was done , Mr Boffin , with his appetite for Misers whetted instead of satiated , began to look out again . 
It very soon became unnecessary to tell Bella what to look for , and an understanding was established between her and Mr Boffin that she was always to look for Lives of Misers . 
Morning after morning they roamed about the town together , pursuing this singular research . 
It was curious that Bella never saw the books about the house , nor did she ever hear from Mr Boffin one word of reference to their contents . 
He seemed to save up his Misers as they had saved up their money . 
As they had been greedy for it , and secret about it , and had hidden it , so he was greedy for them , and secret about them , and hid them . 
It did not appear that Mrs Boffin knew of this taste . 
While these occurrences were in progress , Mrs Lammle made the discovery that Bella had a fascinating influence over her . 
, naturally recognized in Mrs Lammle a woman of penetration and taste . 
But between Bella Wilfer and Georgiana Podsnap there was this one difference , among many others , that Bella was in no danger of being captivated by Alfred . 
She distrusted and disliked him . 
Mrs Lammle took the friendliest interest in Bella's making a good match . 
Who in their agreeable manner did homage to Bella as if she were a compound of fine girl , thorough bred horse , well built drag , and remarkable pipe . 
But without the least effect , though even Mr Fledgeby's attractions were cast into the scale . 
'I fear , Bella dear , said Mrs Lammle one day in the chariot , 'that you will be very hard to please . 
'I don't expect to be pleased , dear , said Bella , with a languid turn of her eyes . 
'Truly , my love , returned Sophronia , shaking her head , and smiling her best smile , 'it would not be very easy to find a man worthy of your attractions . 
'The question is not a man , my dear , said Bella , coolly , 'but an establishment . 
'My love , returned Mrs Lammle , 'your prudence amazes me where DID you study life so well ! you are right . 
In such a case as yours , the object is a fitting establishment . 
'No ! Have they really ? A little vexed by a suspicion that she had spoken precipitately , and withal a little defiant of her own vexation , Bella determined not to retreat . 
'That is to say , she explained , 'they have told me they mean to portion me as their adopted child , if you mean that . 
'Mention it ! replied Mrs Lammle , as if she were full of awakened feeling at the suggestion of such an impossibility . 
'Men tion it ! 'I don't mind telling you , Mrs Lammle Bella began again . 
'My love , say Sophronia , or I must not say Bella . 
With a little short , petulant 'Oh ! Bella complied . 
'Brave girl ! murmured Mrs Lammle . 
'And so , pursued Bella , 'as to seeking to please myself , I don't except in the one respect I have mentioned . 
'But you can't help pleasing , Bella , said Mrs Lammle , rallying her with an arch look and her best smile , 'you can't help making a proud and an admiring husband . 
Now , the very grossness of this flattery put Bella upon proving that she actually did please in spite of herself . 
'Don't talk of pleasing in spite of one's self , dear , said Bella . 
'I have had enough of that . 
'Ay ? cried Mrs Lammle . 
'Am I already corroborated , Bella ? 'Never mind , Sophronia , we will not speak of it any more . 
Don't ask me about it . 
This plainly meaning Do ask me about it , Mrs Lammle did as she was requested . 
'Shall I guess ? 'You would never guess . 
and he had the presumption to tell me so . 
'The man never made a declaration to you , my dear Bella ! 'Are you sure of that , Sophronia ? said Bella . 
In fact , I am sure of the contrary . 
'The man must be mad , said Mrs Lammle , with a kind of resignation . 
'He appeared to be in his senses , returned Bella , tossing her head , 'and he had plenty to say for himself . 
I told him my opinion of his declaration and his conduct , and dismissed him . 
Of course this has all been very inconvenient to me , and very disagreeable . 
It has remained a secret , however . 
That word reminds me to observe , Sophronia , that I have glided on into telling you the secret , and that I rely upon you never to mention it . 
'Mention it ! repeated Mrs Lammle with her former feeling . 
'Men tion it ! This time Sophronia was so much in earnest that she found it necessary to bend forward in the carriage and give Bella a kiss . 
If my husband , who sends me here , should form any schemes for making YOU a victim , I should certainly not cross him again . 
Perhaps if she had consulted some better oracle , the result might have been more satisfactory but she did not , and all things consequent marched the march before them . 
She consulted his face when she could do so covertly , as she worked or read , and could make nothing of it . 
Always the same fixed face . 
'Can he be so base as to sell his very nature for two hundred a year ? Bella would think . 
And then , 'But why not ? It's a mere question of price with others besides him . 
I suppose I would sell mine , if I could get enough for it . 
And so she would come round again to the war with herself . 
A kind of illegibility , though a different kind , stole over Mr Boffin's face . 
Its old simplicity of expression got masked by a certain craftiness that assimilated even his good humour to itself . 
His very smile was cunning , as if he had been studying smiles among the portraits of his misers . 
None the less because it was far less radiant than of yore , faithfully reflecting in its anxiety and regret every line of change in the Golden Dustman's . 
Or leastways , you are spending too much for me . 
'You are rich , sir . 
'I am not , said Mr Boffin . 
The sharpness of the retort was next to telling the Secretary that he lied . 
But it brought no change of expression into the set face . 
'I tell you I am not rich , repeated Mr Boffin , 'and I won't have it . 
'You are not rich , sir ? repeated the Secretary , in measured words . 
'Well , returned Mr Boffin , 'if I am , that's my business . 
I am not going to spend at this rate , to please you , or anybody . 
You wouldn't like it , if it was your money . 
'Even in that impossible case , sir , I 'Hold your tongue ! said Mr Boffin . 
'You oughtn't to like it in any case . 
There ! I didn't mean to he rude , but you put me out so , and after all I'm master . 
I didn't intend to tell you to hold your tongue . 
Did you ever come across the life of Mr Elwes ? referring to his favourite subject at last . 
'The miser ? 'Ah , people called him a miser . 
People are always calling other people something . 
Did you ever read about him ? 'I think so . 
'He never owned to being rich , and yet he might have bought me twice over . 
Did you ever hear of Daniel Dancer ? 'Another miser ? Yes . 
'He was a good 'un , said Mr Boffin , 'and he had a sister worthy of him . 
They never called themselves rich neither . 
If they HAD called themselves rich , most likely they wouldn't have been so . 
'They lived and died very miserably . 
Did they not , sir ? 'No , I don't know that they did , said Mr Boffin , curtly . 
'Then they are not the Misers I mean . 
Those abject wretches 'Don't call names , Rokesmith , said Mr Boffin . 
That exemplary brother and sister lived and died in the foulest and filthiest degradation . 
'They pleased themselves , said Mr Boffin , 'and I suppose they could have done no more if they had spent their money . 
But however , I ain't going to fling mine away . 
The fact is , you ain't enough here , Rokesmith . 
It wants constant attention in the littlest things . 
Some of us will be dying in a workhouse next . 
'As the persons you have cited , quietly remarked the Secretary , 'thought they would , if I remember , sir . 
'And very creditable in 'em too , said Mr Boffin . 
'Very independent in 'em ! But never mind them just now . 
Have you given notice to quit your lodgings ? 'Under your direction , I have , sir . 
You'll charge the quarter's rent to me , and we must try and save it somewhere . 
You've got some lovely furniture haven't you ? 'The furniture in my rooms is my own . 
'Then we shan't have to buy any for you . 
I don't ask it , but I won't stand in your way if you should consider it due to yourself . 
As to your room , choose any empty room at the top of the house . 
'Any empty room will do for me , said the Secretary . 
'You can take your pick , said Mr Boffin , 'and it'll be as good as eight or ten shillings a week added to your income . 
I won't deduct for it I look to you to make it up handsomely by keeping the expenses down . 
Now , if you'll show a light , I'll come to your office room and dispose of a letter or two . 
Feigning to be intent on her embroidery , she sat plying her needle until her busy hand was stopped by Mrs Boffin's hand being lightly laid upon it . 
Yielding to the touch , she felt her hand carried to the good soul's lips , and felt a tear fall on it . 
'Oh , my loved husband ! said Mrs Boffin . 
'This is hard to see and hear . 
But my dear Bella , believe me that in spite of all the change in him , he is the best of men . 
He came back , at the moment when Bella had taken the hand comfortingly between her own . 
'Eh ? said he , mistrustfully looking in at the door . 
'What's she telling you ? 'She is only praising you , sir , said Bella . 
'There , there , there ! urged Mr Boffin , not unkindly . 
'Don't take on , old lady . 
'But I can't bear to see you so , my dear . 
'Nonsense ! Recollect we are not our old selves . 
Recollect , we must scrunch or be scrunched . 
Recollect , we must hold our own . 
Recollect , money makes money . 
Don't you be uneasy , Bella , my child don't you be doubtful . 
The more I save , the more you shall have . 
own house , but lay under general instructions to await him within a certain margin of hours at the Bower . 
Mr Wegg took this arrangement in great dudgeon , because the appointed hours were evening hours , and those he considered precious to the progress of the friendly move . 
burst into tears simultaneously , on his being taken with a shivering fit after bathing . 
Forth from the shelter of a neighbouring wall , Mr Venus then emerged . 
'Brother in arms , said Mr Wegg , in excellent spirits , 'welcome ! In return , Mr Venus gave him a rather dry good evening . 
Li toddle de om dee . 
And something to guide , My ain fireside , sir , My ain fireside . 
, Mr Wegg conducted his guest to his hearth . 
'What kind of halo ? asked Mr Venus . 
''Ope sir , replied Silas . 
Mr Venus appeared doubtful on the point , and looked rather discontentedly at the fire . 
'We'll devote the evening , brother , exclaimed Wegg , 'to prosecute our friendly move . 
And arterwards , crushing a flowing wine cup which I allude to brewing rum and water we'll pledge one another . 
This flow of quotation and hospitality in Wegg indicated his observation of some little querulousness on the part of Venus . 
'Why , as to the friendly move , observed the last named gentleman , rubbing his knees peevishly , 'one of my objections to it is , that it DON'T move . 
originated in twins and a wolf and ended in Imperial marble wasn't built in a day . 
'Did I say it was ? asked Venus . 
'No , you did not , brother . 
I think I must give up . 
'No , sir ! remonstrated Wegg , enthusiastically . 
And having got to do it whether or no , I can't afford to waste my time on groping for nothing in cinders . 
'But think how little time you have given to the move , sir , after all , urged Wegg . 
'And there's no encouragement to go on . 
'What's a scratch here and a scrape there , a poke in this place and a dig in the other , to them . 
Besides what have we found ? 'What HAVE we found ? cried Wegg , delighted to be able to acquiesce . 
'Ah ! There I grant you , comrade . 
But on the contrary , comrade , what MAY we find ? There you'll grant me . 
'I don't like it , pettishly returned Venus as before . 
'I came into it without enough consideration . 
And yet it sounds like him . 
A ring at the yard bell . 
'It is him , said Mr Wegg , 'and he it capable of it . 
I am sorry , because I could have wished to keep up a little lingering fragment of respect for him . 
Here Mr Boffin was heard lustily calling at the yard gate , 'Halloa ! Wegg ! Halloa ! 'Keep your seat , Mr Venus , said Wegg . 
And then called out , 'Halloa , sir ! Halloa ! I'm with you directly , sir ! Half a minute , Mr Boffin . 
'Here ! lend a hand , Wegg , said Mr Boffin excitedly , 'I can't get out till the way is cleared for me . 
This is the Annual Register , Wegg , in a cab full of wollumes . 
Do you know him ? 'Know the Animal Register , sir ? returned the Impostor , who had caught the name imperfectly . 
'For a trifling wager , I think I could find any Animal in him , blindfold , Mr Boffin . 
'And here's Kirby's Wonderful Museum , said Mr Boffin , 'and Caulfield's Characters , and Wilson's . 
Such Characters , Wegg , such Characters ! I must have one or two of the best of 'em to night . 
It's amazing what places they used to put the guineas in , wrapped up in rags . 
Catch hold of that pile of wollumes , Wegg , or it'll bulge out and burst into the mud . 
'Call him out , cried Mr Boffin in a bustle 'get him to bear a hand . 
Don't drop that one under your arm . 
Him and his sister made pies of a dead sheep they found when they were out a walking . 
Where's your friend ? Oh , here's your friend . 
Would you be so good as help Wegg and myself with these books ? But don't take Jemmy Taylor of Southwark , nor yet Jemmy Wood of Gloucester . 
These are the two Jemmys . 
'There ! said Mr Boffin , gloating over them . 
'There they are , like the four and twenty fiddlers all of a row . 
Get on your spectacles , Wegg I know where to find the best of 'em , and we'll have a taste at once of what we have got before us . 
What's your friend's name ? Mr Wegg presented his friend as Mr Venus . 
'Eh ? cried Mr Boffin , catching at the name . 
'Of Clerkenwell ? 'Of Clerkenwell , sir , said Mr Venus . 
'Why , I've heard of you , cried Mr Boffin , 'I heard of you in the old man's time . 
Did you ever buy anything of him ? With piercing eagerness . 
'No , sir , returned Venus . 
'But he showed you things didn't he ? Mr Venus , with a glance at his friend , replied in the affirmative . 
'What did he show you ? asked Mr Boffin , putting his hands behind him , and eagerly advancing his head . 
'Did he show you boxes , little cabinets , pocket books , parcels , anything locked or sealed , anything tied up ? Mr Venus shook his head . 
'Are you a judge of china ? Mr Venus again shook his head . 
'Because if he had ever showed you a teapot , I should be glad to know of it , said Mr Boffin . 
'A Teapot , repeated Mr Boffin , continuing to muse and survey the books 'a Teapot , a Teapot . 
'Hem ! Ahem ! coughed Mr Wegg to attract his employer's attention . 
'Would you wish to commence with an Animal , sir from the Register ? 'No , said Mr Boffin , 'no , Wegg . 
Mr Venus , would you make yourself useful and draw the candles a little nearer , sir ? This to have a special opportunity of bestowing a stare upon his comrade . 
'Which of 'em have you got in that lot ? asked Mr Boffin . 
With another stare at his comrade , Silas sought and found the place . 
'Page a hundred and nine , Mr Boffin . 
Contents of chapter , His birth and estate . 
His garments and outward appearance . 
Miss Dancer and her feminine graces . 
The finding of a treasure . 
The Story of the Mutton Pies . 
A Miser's Idea of Death . 
Bob , the Miser's cur . 
How to turn a penny . 
A substitute for a Fire . 
The Advantages of keeping a Snuff box . 
The Miser dies without a Shirt . 
The Treasures of a Dunghill 'Eh ? What's that ? demanded Mr Boffin . 
The Treasures , sir , repeated Silas , reading very distinctly , of a Dunghill . 
But though poor in external structure , the ruinous fabric was very rich in the interior . 
It took many weeks to explore its whole contents and Captain Holmes found it a very agreeable task to dive into the miser's secret hoards . 
Several bowls were discovered filled with guineas and half guineas and at different times on searching the corners of the house they found various parcels of bank notes . 
Some were reposing snugly at the back of the drawers and notes amounting to six hundred pounds were found neatly doubled up in the inside of an old teapot . 
In the stable the Captain found jugs full of old dollars and shillings . 
Nor did either of the two , for some few seconds , make any effort to recover himself both remaining in a kind of pecuniary swoon . 
But the sight of Mr Boffin sitting in the arm chair hugging himself , with his eyes upon the fire , acted as a restorative . 
Counterfeiting a sneeze to cover their movements , Mr Wegg , with a spasmodic 'Tish ho ! pulled himself and Mr Venus up in a masterly manner . 
'Let's have some more , said Mr Boffin , hungrily . 
'John Elwes is the next , sir . 
Is it your pleasure to take John Elwes ? 'Ah ! said Mr Boffin . 
'Let's hear what John did . 
He did not appear to have hidden anything , so went off rather flatly . 
To her succeeded another lady , claiming to be a pauper , whose wealth was found wrapped up in little scraps of paper and old rag . 
The two sons grew up as parsimonious as their sire . 
When about twenty years of age , they commenced business at Cambridge as drapers , and they continued there until their death . 
The establishment of the Messrs Jardine was the most dirty of all the shops in Cambridge . 
Customers seldom went in to purchase , except perhaps out of curiosity . 
The brothers were most disreputable looking beings for , although surrounded with gay apparel as their staple in trade , they wore the most filthy rags themselves . 
It is said that they had no bed , and , to save the expense of one , always slept on a bundle of packing cloths under the counter . 
In their housekeeping they were penurious in the extreme . 
A joint of meat did not grace their board for twenty years . 
Yet when the first of the brothers died , the other , much to his surprise , found large sums of money which had been secreted even from him . 
'There ! cried Mr Boffin . 
'Even from him , you see ! There was only two of 'em , and yet one of 'em hid from the other . 
'Do you like it ? asked Mr Boffin , turning suddenly . 
'I beg your pardon , sir ? 'Do you like what Wegg's been a reading ? Mr Venus answered that he found it extremely interesting . 
'Then come again , said Mr Boffin , 'and hear some more . 
Come when you like come the day after to morrow , half an hour sooner . 
There's plenty more there's no end to it . 
Mr Venus expressed his acknowledgments and accepted the invitation . 
'It's wonderful what's been hid , at one time and another , said Mr Boffin , ruminating 'truly wonderful . 
Mr Wegg , in a languid transport , again dropped over on Mr Venus , and again recovering himself , masked his emotions with a sneeze . 
'Tish ho ! Did you say papers too , sir ? Been hidden , sir ? 'Hidden and forgot , said Mr Boffin . 
'Why the bookseller that sold me the Wonderful Museum where's the Wonderful Museum ? He was on his knees on the floor in a moment , groping eagerly among the books . 
'Can I assist you , sir ? asked Wegg . 
'No , I have got it here it is , said Mr Boflin , dusting it with the sleeve of his coat . 
I know it was the fourth wollume , that the bookseller read it to me out of . 
Look for it , Wegg . 
Silas took the book and turned the leaves . 
'Remarkable petrefaction , sir ? 'No , that's not it , said Mr Boffin . 
'It can't have been a petrefaction . 
'Memoirs of General John Reid , commonly called The Walking Rushlight , sir ? With portrait ? 'No , nor yet him , said Mr Boffin . 
'Remarkable case of a person who swallowed a crown piece , sir ? 'To hide it ? asked Mr Boffin . 
'Why , no , sir , replied Wegg , consulting the text , 'it appears to have been done by accident . 
Oh ! This next must be it . 
Singular discovery of a will , lost twenty one years . 
'That's it ! cried Mr Boffin . 
A most extraordinary case , read Silas Wegg aloud , was tried at the last Maryborough assizes in Ireland . 
'There ! said Mr Boffin . 
'However , time's up for to night , said Mr Boffin , waving his hand after a silence . 
'More , the day after to morrow . 
Range the books upon the shelves , Wegg . 
I dare say Mr Venus will be so kind as help you . 
While speaking , he thrust his hand into the breast of his outer coat , and struggled with some object there that was too large to be got out easily . 
'I'm going , Wegg , he then announced , 'to take a turn about the place and round the yard . 
Me and this same lantern have taken hundreds thousands of such turns in our time together . 
Wegg looked intelligently thoughtful , as if that had not occurred to his mind until he now brought it to bear on the circumstance . 
He had nothing for it but to let Mr Boffin go out and shut the door behind him . 
'Why mustn't he ? asked Venus , also strangling . 
'Comrade , you might have noticed I was a little elewated in spirits when you come in to night . 
'What have you found ? asked Venus , clutching him with both hands , so that they stood interlocked like a couple of preposterous gladiators . 
'There's no time to tell you now . 
I think he must have gone to look for it . 
We must have an eye upon him instantly . 
Releasing each other , they crept to the door , opened it softly , and peeped out . 
It was a cloudy night , and the black shadow of the Mounds made the dark yard darker . 
'If not a double swindler , whispered Wegg , 'why a dark lantern ? We could have seen what he was about , if he had carried a light one . 
Cautiously along the path that was bordered by fragments of crockery set in ashes , the two stole after him . 
They could hear him at his peculiar trot , crushing the loose cinders as he went . 
'Is that the spot ? asked Venus in a whisper . 
'He's warm , said Silas in the same tone . 
I think he must be going to look for it . 
What's that he's got in his hand ? 'A shovel , answered Venus . 
'And he knows how to use it , remember , fifty times as well as either of us . 
'If he looks for it and misses it , partner , suggested Wegg , 'what shall we do ? 'First of all , wait till he does , said Venus . 
Discreet advice too , for he darkened his lantern again , and the mound turned black . 
'That can't be the spot too ? said Venus . 
'No , said Wegg , 'he's getting cold . 
'It strikes me , whispered Venus , 'that he wants to find out whether any one has been groping about there . 
'Hush ! returned Wegg , 'he's getting colder and colder . 
Now he's freezing ! This exclamation was elicited by his having turned the lantern off again , and on again , and being visible at the foot of the third mound . 
'Why , he's going up it ! said Venus . 
'Shovel and all ! said Wegg . 
On striking into it he turned his lantern off . 
The two followed him , stooping low , so that their figures might make no mark in relief against the sky when he should turn his lantern on again . 
Mr Venus took the lead , towing Mr Wegg , in order that his refractory leg might be promptly extricated from any pitfalls it should dig for itself . 
They could just make out that the Golden Dustman stopped to breathe . 
Of course they stopped too , instantly . 
'This is his own Mound , whispered Wegg , as he recovered his wind , 'this one . 
'Why all three are his own , returned Venus . 
'When he shows his light , said Venus , keeping watch upon his dusky figure all the time , 'drop lower and keep closer . 
He went on again , and they followed again . 
Gaining the top of the Mound , he turned on his light but only partially and stood it on the ground . 
A bare lopsided weatherbeaten pole was planted in the ashes there , and had been there many a year . 
'He can never be going to dig up the pole ! whispered Venus as they dropped low and kept close . 
'Perhaps it's holler and full of something , whispered Wegg . 
He had no design upon the pole , except that he measured a shovel's length from it before beginning , nor was it his purpose to dig deep . 
Some dozen or so of expert strokes sufficed . 
As soon as he had done this , he turned off his lantern , and they could hear that he was filling up the hole in the dark . 
The ashes being easily moved by a skilful hand , the spies took this as a hint to make off in good time . 
Accordingly , Mr Venus slipped past Mr Wegg and towed him down . 
Even then he staggered round and round , weakly staring about him , until Mr Venus with a hard brush brushed his senses into him and the dust out of him . 
Mr Boffin came down leisurely , for this brushing process had been well accomplished , and Mr Venus had had time to take his breath , before he reappeared . 
That he had the bottle somewhere about him could not be doubted where , was not so clear . 
He wore a large rough coat , buttoned over , and it might be in any one of half a dozen pockets . 
'What's the matter , Wegg ? said Mr Boffin . 
'You are as pale as a candle . 
Mr Wegg replied , with literal exactness , that he felt as if he had had a turn . 
'Bile , said Mr Boffin , blowing out the light in the lantern , shutting it up , and stowing it away in the breast of his coat as before . 
'Physic yourself to morrow , Wegg , said Mr Boffin , 'to be in order for next night . 
By the by , this neighbourhood is going to have a loss , Wegg . 
'A loss , sir ? 'Going to lose the Mounds . 
The friendly movers made such an obvious effort not to look at one another , that they might as well have stared at one another with all their might . 
'Have you parted with them , Mr Boffin ? asked Silas . 
Mine's as good as gone already . 
'You mean the little one of the three , with the pole atop , sir . 
'Yes , said Mr Boffin , rubbing his ear in his old way , with that new touch of craftiness added to it . 
'It has fetched a penny . 
It'll begin to be carted off to morrow . 
'Have you been out to take leave of your old friend , sir ? asked Silas , jocosely . 
'No , said Mr Boffin . 
'No offence , sir , said Wegg , humbly . 
Mr Boffin eyed him as a dog might eye another dog who wanted his bone and actually retorted with a low growl , as the dog might have retorted . 
'Good night , he said , after having sunk into a moody silence , with his hands clasped behind him , and his eyes suspiciously wandering about Wegg . 
I know the way out , and I want no light . 
'He mustn't go , he cried . 
'We mustn't let him go ? He has got that bottle about him . 
We must have that bottle . 
'Why , you wouldn't take it by force ? said Venus , restraining him . 
'Wouldn't I ? Yes I would . 
'Did you hear him ? retorted Wegg . 
Let me go after him . 
So they both rolled on the floor , and , as they did so , Mr Boffin shut the gate . 
, there was expressed a politic conciliation , which had no spontaneity in it . 
Each was silent for some time , leaving it to the other to begin . 
'Brother , said Wegg , at length breaking the silence , 'you were right , and I was wrong . 
Mr Venus knowingly cocked his shock of hair , as rather thinking Mr Wegg had remembered himself , in respect of appearing without any disguise . 
'But comrade , pursued Wegg , 'it was never your lot to know Miss Elizabeth , Master George , Aunt Jane , nor Uncle Parker . 
Mr Venus admitted that he had never known those distinguished persons , and added , in effect , that he had never so much as desired the honour of their acquaintance . 
'Comrade , said Wegg , 'take a seat . 
'For clearly do I know , mark you , pursued Wegg , pointing his words with his forefinger , 'clearly do I know what question your expressive features puts to me . 
'What question ? said Venus . 
'The question , returned Wegg , with a sort of joyful affability , 'why I didn't mention sooner , that I had found something . 
Now , you can't read in my face what answer I give ? 'No , I can't , said Venus . 
'I knew it ! And why not ? returned Wegg , with the same joyful candour . 
'Because I lay no claims to a speaking countenance . 
Because I am well aware of my deficiencies . 
All men are not gifted alike . 
But I can answer in words . 
And in what words ? These . 
'If you hear it say the words , why don't you answer it ? 'Hear me out ! said Wegg . 
Hear me out ! Man and brother , partner in feelings equally with undertakings and actions , I have found a cash box . 
'Where ? Hear me out ! said Wegg . 
'On a certain day , sir 'When ? said Venus bluntly . 
'N no , returned Wegg , shaking his head at once observantly , thoughtfully , and playfully . 
'No , sir ! That's not your expressive countenance which asks that question . 
That's your voice merely your voice . 
What object ? demanded Venus , in a wrathful tone . 
Hear me out ! said Wegg . 
When I struck it against the Pump , and found , not only that the top was loose and opened with a lid , but that something in it rattled . 
That something , comrade , I discovered to be a small flat oblong cash box . 
Shall I say it was disappintingly light ? 'There were papers in it , said Venus . 
'There your expressive countenance speaks indeed ! cried Wegg . 
The box was locked , tied up , and sealed , and on the outside was a parchment label , with the writing , MY WILL , JOHN HARMON , TEMPORARILY DEPOSITED HERE . 
'We must know its contents , said Venus . 
Hear me out ! cried Wegg . 
'I said so , and I broke the box open . 
'Without coming to me ! exclaimed Venus . 
'Exactly so , sir ! returned Wegg , blandly and buoyantly . 
And so , as you have honoured me by anticipating , I examined the document . 
Regularly executed , regularly witnessed , very short . 
'The date of the will that has been proved , must be looked to , remarked Venus . 
'It may be later than this one . 
Hear me out ! cried Wegg . 
to look up that will . 
Brother , that will is dated months before this will . 
Hear me out ! cried Wegg . 
'I knew you was a going to say so . 
But alone I bore the anxiety , and alone I'll bear the blame ! This with an air of great magnanimity . 
'Let's see this will and this box . 
'Do I understand , brother , returned Wegg with considerable reluctance , 'that it is your wish to see this will and this ? Mr Venus smote the table with his hand . 
Hear me out ! said Wegg . 
'Hear me out ! I'll go and fetch 'em . 
'There's something in that , assented Venus . 
Jealous of the custody of the box , and yet fearful of opening it under the existing circumstances , Wegg hesitated . 
'Come , I tell you , repeated Venus , chafing , 'to my place . 
Not very well seeing his way to a refusal , Mr Wegg then rejoined in a gush , Hear me out ! Certainly . 
So he locked up the Bower and they set forth Mr Venus taking his arm , and keeping it with remarkable tenacity . 
'No one can get in without being let in , said he then , 'and we couldn't be more snug than here . 
So he raked together the yet warm cinders in the rusty grate , and made a fire , and trimmed the candle on the little counter . 
The French gentleman had grown considerably since Mr Wegg last saw him , being now accommodated with a pair of legs and a head , though his arms were yet in abeyance . 
To whomsoever the head had originally belonged , Silas Wegg would have regarded it as a personal favour if he had not cut quite so many teeth . 
Silas inwardly approved of these preparations , trusting they might end in Mr Venus's diluting his intellect . 
'Now , sir , said Venus , 'all is safe and quiet . 
Let us see this discovery . 
He held a corner of it tight , while Venus , taking hold of another corner , searchingly and attentively read it . 
'Was I correct in my account of it , partner ? said Mr Wegg at length . 
'Partner , you were , said Mr Venus . 
Mr Wegg thereupon made an easy , graceful movement , as though he would fold it up but Mr Venus held on by his corner . 
'No , sir , said Mr Venus , winking his weak eyes and shaking his head . 
The question is now brought up , who is going to take care of this . 
Do you know who is going to take care of this , partner ? 'I am , said Wegg . 
'Oh dear no , partner , retorted Venus . 
Now look here , Mr Wegg . 
I don't want to have any words with you , and still less do I want to have any anatomical pursuits with you . 
'What do you mean ? said Wegg , quickly . 
But I am on my own ground , I am surrounded by the trophies of my art , and my tools is very handy . 
'What do you mean , Mr Venus ? asked Wegg again . 
'I am surrounded , as I have observed , said Mr Venus , placidly , 'by the trophies of my art . 
They are numerous , my stock of human warious is large , the shop is pretty well crammed , and I don't just now want any more trophies of my art . 
But I like my art , and I know how to exercise my art . 
'No man better , assented Mr Wegg , with a somewhat staggered air . 
'There's the Miscellanies of several human specimens , said Venus , in the box on which you're sitting . 
There's the Miscellanies of several human specimens , in the lovely compo one behind the door' with a nod towards the French gentleman . 
'It still wants a pair of arms . 
I DON'T say that I'm in any hurry for 'em . 
'You must be wandering in your mind , partner , Silas remonstrated . 
'You'll excuse me if I wander , returned Venus 'I am sometimes rather subject to it . 
I like my art , and I know how to exercise my art , and I mean to have the keeping of this document . 
'But what has that got to do with your art , partner ? asked Wegg , in an insinuating tone . 
He and Venus were necessarily seated close together , as each held a corner of the document , which was but a common sheet of paper . 
'Partner , said Wegg , even more insinuatingly than before , 'I propose that we cut it in half , and each keep a half . 
Venus shook his shock of hair , as he replied , 'It wouldn't do to mutilate it , partner . 
It might seem to be cancelled . 
You shall never keep it from me again . 
I offer you the box and the label to take care of , but I'll take care of the paper . 
He then proposed 'A cup of tea , partner ? To which Mr Wegg returned , 'Thank'ee , partner , and the tea was made and poured out . 
That , here he had a plan of action to recommend , with a conditional clause . 
But here came the conditional clause , and to this he entreated the special attention of his comrade , brother , and partner . 
It was not to be borne that the minion and worm should carry off any of that property which was now to be regarded as their own property . 
It might be more according to the rights of things , to say Two thirds it might be more according to the rights of things , to say Three fourths . 
On those points he was ever open to correction . 
Mr Venus , having wafted his attention to this discourse over three successive saucers of tea , signified his concurrence in the views advanced . 
Inspirited hereby , Mr Wegg extended his right hand , and declared it to be a hand which never yet . 
Without entering into more minute particulars . 
Mr Venus , sticking to his tea , briefly professed his beliet as polite forms required of him , that it WAS a hand which never yet . 
But contented himself with looking at it , and did not take it to his bosom . 
'Brother , said Wegg , when this happy understanding was established , 'I should like to ask you something . 
You remember the night when I first looked in here , and found you floating your powerful mind in tea ? Still swilling tea , Mr Venus nodded assent . 
'You said you'd like to ask something but you haven't asked it , remarked Venus , very unsympathetic in manner . 
'Your peace of mind , said Wegg , offering condolence , 'your peace of mind was in a poor way that night . 
There's no more to be said . 
Such is coincidence ! 'Her father , rejoined Venus , and then stopped to swallow more tea , 'her father was mixed up in them . 
'You didn't mention her name , sir , I think ? observed Wegg , pensively . 
'No , you didn't mention her name that night . 
'In deed ! cried Wegg . 
There's something moving in the name . 
Dear me ! Seems to express what she might have been , if she hadn't made that unpleasant remark and what she ain't , in consequence of having made it . 
Mr Wegg hinted , to jog his attention 'You could hardly have been out parrot shooting , in the British climate , sir ? 'No , no , no , said Venus fretfully . 
'I was down at the water side , looking for parrots brought home by sailors , to buy for stuffing . 
It was just at the time of that discovery in the river . 
Her father had seen the discovery being towed in the river . 
I made the popularity of the subject a reason for going back to improve the acquaintance , and I have never since been the man I was . 
My very bones is rendered flabby by brooding over it . 
If they could be brought to me loose , to sort , I should hardly have the face to claim 'em as mine . 
To such an extent have I fallen off under it . 
Mr Wegg , less interested than he had been , glanced at one particular shelf in the dark . 
, I remember that you said that night , you had got up there and then your words was , Never mind . 
The parrot that I bought of her , said Venus , with a despondent rise and fall of his eyes . 
'Yes there it lies on its side , dried up except for its plumage , very like myself . 
I've never had the heart to prepare it , and I never shall have now . 
He bitterly felt that he had overreached himself in the beginning , by grasping at Mr Venus's mere straws of hints , now shown to be worthless for his purpose . 
As he hovered on the opposite side of the street , exulting , the carriage drove up . 
'There'll shortly be an end of YOU , said Wegg , threatening it with the hat box . 
Mrs Boffin descended and went in . 
'Look out for a fall , my Lady Dustwoman , said Wegg . 
Bella lightly descended , and ran in after her . 
'How brisk we are ! said Wegg . 
'You won't run so gaily to your old shabby home , my girl . 
You'll have to go there , though . 
A little while , and the Secretary came out . 
'I was passed over for you , said Wegg . 
'But you had better provide yourself with another situation , young man . 
Mr Boffin's shadow passed upon the blinds of three large windows as he trotted down the room , and passed again as he went back . 
'You're there , are you ? Where's the bottle ? You would give your bottle for my box , Dustman ! Having now composed his mind for slumber , he turned homeward . 
Such was the greed of the fellow , that his mind had shot beyond halves , two thirds , three fourths , and gone straight to spoliation of the whole . 
'Though that wouldn't quite do , he considered , growing cooler as he got away . 
'That's what would happen to him if he didn't buy us up . 
We should get nothing by that . 
It caused him a slight tremor as it passed but a very slight one , for the idle thought was gone directly . 
'He's grown too fond of money for that , said Wegg 'he's grown too fond of money . 
The burden fell into a strain or tune as he stumped along the pavements . 
Yes , verily , my lords and gentlemen and honourable boards , adapting your Catechism to the occasion , and by God's help so you must . 
We must mend it , lords and gentlemen and honourable boards , or in its own evil hour it will mar every one of us . 
Old Betty Higden fared upon her pilgrimage as many ruggedly honest creatures , women and men , fare on their toiling way along the roads of life . 
Patiently to earn a spare bare living , and quietly to die , untouched by workhouse hands this was her highest sublunary hope . 
Nothing had been heard of her at Mr Boffin's house since she trudged off . 
The weather had been hard and the roads had been bad , and her spirit was up . 
Faithful soul ! When she had spoken to the Secretary of that 'deadness that steals over me at times' , her fortitude had made too little of it . 
Oftener and ever oftener , it came stealing over her darker and ever darker , like the shadow of advancing Death . 
She had hovered for a little while in the near neighbourhood of her abandoned dwelling , and had sold , and knitted and sold , and gone on . 
In the pleasant towns of Chertsey , Walton , Kingston , and Staines , her figure came to be quite well known for some short weeks , and then again passed on . 
But ladies in carriages would frequently make purchases from her trifling stock , and were usually pleased with her bright eyes and her hopeful speech . 
In these and her clean dress originated a fable that she was well to do in the world one might say , for her station , rich . 
As making a comfortable provision for its subject which costs nobody anything , this class of fable has long been popular . 
My breast is softer than the pauper nurse's death in my arms is peacefuller than among the pauper wards . 
Come to me ! There was abundant place for gentler fancies too , in her untutored mind . 
So with the churchyard on a branch of the solitary way to the night's sleeping place . 
The poor soul envied no one in bitterness , and grudged no one anything . 
But , the old abhorrence grew stronger on her as she grew weaker , and it found more sustaining food than she did in her wanderings . 
, and in its dietary , and in its lodging , and in its tending of the sick , a much more penal establishment . 
This is not to be received as a figure of speech . 
Old Betty Higden however tired , however footsore , would start up and be driven away by her awakened horror of falling into the hands of Charity . 
'Are you better now , mother ? asked one of the women . 
'Do you think you can do nicely now ? 'Have I been ill then ? asked old Betty . 
'You have had a faint like , was the answer , 'or a fit . 
It ain't that you've been a struggling , mother , but you've been stiff and numbed . 
'Ah ! said Betty , recovering her memory . 
It comes over me at times . 
Was it gone ? the women asked her . 
'It's gone now , said Betty . 
'I shall be stronger than I was afore . 
'My head's a bit light , and my feet are a bit heavy , said old Betty , leaning her face drowsily on the breast of the woman who had spoken before . 
'They'll both come nat'ral in a minute . 
There's nothing more the matter . 
'Ask her , said some farmers standing by , who had come out from their market dinner , 'who belongs to her . 
'Are there any folks belonging to you , mother ? said the woman . 
'Yes sure , answered Betty . 
'I heerd the gentleman say it , but I couldn't answer quick enough . 
There's plenty belonging to me . 
Don't ye fear for me , my dear . 
'But are any of 'em near here ? 'said the men's voices the women's voices chiming in when it was said , and prolonging the strain . 
'Quite near enough , said Betty , rousing herself . 
'Don't ye be afeard for me , neighbours . 
'But you are not fit to travel . 
Where are you going ? was the next compassionate chorus she heard . 
'I'm a going to London when I've sold out all , said Betty , rising with difficulty . 
'I've right good friends in London . 
I shall come to no harm . 
Don't ye be afeard for me . 
A well meaning bystander , yellow legginged and purple faced , said hoarsely over his red comforter , as she rose to her feet , that she 'oughtn't to be let to go' . 
'For the Lord's love don't meddle with me ! cried old Betty , all her fears crowding on her . 
'I am quite well now , and I must go this minute . 
Strengthening herself by the utmost exercise of her resolution , the poor trembling creature shook him off , almost fiercely , and took to flight . 
The second frightening incident was this . 
A barge was being towed towards her , and she sat down on the bank to rest and watch it . 
When she looked again , there was no barge , no river , no daylight , and a man whom she had never before seen held a candle close to her face . 
'The Lock ? 'I am the Deputy Lock , on job , and this is the Lock house . 
What's your Parish ? 'Parish ! She was up from the truckle bed directly , wildly feeling about her for her basket , and gazing at him in affright . 
'You'll be asked the question down town , said the man . 
'They won't let you be more than a Casual there . 
They'll pass you on to your settlement , Missis , with all speed . 
You're not in a state to be let come upon strange parishes 'ceptin as a Casual . 
''Twas the deadness again ! murmured Betty Higden , with her hand to her head . 
'It was the deadness , there's not a doubt about it , returned the man . 
'I should have thought the deadness was a mild word for it , if it had been named to me when we brought you in . 
Have you got any friends , Missis ? 'The best of friends , Master . 
'I should recommend your looking 'em up if you consider 'em game to do anything for you , said the Deputy Lock . 
'Have you got any money ? 'Just a morsel of money , sir . 
'Then I'll not go on . 
'They'll make you pay , as fur as your money will go , pursued the Deputy , 'for your relief as a Casual and for your being passed to your Parish . 
'Thank ye kindly , Master , for your warning , thank ye for your shelter , and good night . 
'Stop a bit , said the Deputy , striking in between her and the door . 
I'm a honest man as gets my living by the sweat of my brow , and I may fall into trouble by letting you go . 
I've fell into trouble afore now , by George , and I know what it is , and it's made me careful . 
That was to be expected of a man of his merits . 
As he stood in the doorway , the poor old careworn wayworn woman burst into tears , and clasped her hands , as if in a very agony she prayed to him . 
'As I've told you , Master , I've the best of friends . 
This letter will show how true I spoke , and they will be thankful for me . 
The Deputy Lock opened the letter with a grave face , which underwent no change as he eyed its contents . 
But it might have done , if he could have read them . 
She was gone out of the Lock house as soon as he gave her this permission , and her tottering steps were on the road again . 
The morning found her afoot again , but fast declining as to the clearness of her thoughts , though not as to the steadiness of her purpose . 
The overmastering dread , and the proud stubborn resolution it engendered in her to die undegraded , were the two distinct impressions left in her failing mind . 
Supported only by a sense that she was bent on conquering in her life long fight , she went on . 
The time was come , now , when the wants of this little life were passing away from her . 
She could not have swallowed food , though a table had been spread for her in the next field . 
The day was cold and wet , but she scarcely knew it . 
She had no fear that she would live through another night . 
Sewn in the breast of her gown , the money to pay for her burial was still intact . 
If she could wear through the day , and then lie down to die under cover of the darkness , she would die independent . 
If she were captured previously , the money would be taken from her as a pauper who had no right to it , and she would be carried to the accursed workhouse . 
So , keeping to byways , and shunning human approach , this troublesome old woman hid herself , and fared on all through the dreary day . 
'Water meadows , or such like , she had sometimes murmured , on the day's pilgrimage , when she had raised her head and taken any note of the real objects about her . 
There now arose in the darkness , a great building , full of lighted windows . 
Smoke was issuing from a high chimney in the rear of it , and there was the sound of a water wheel at the side . 
Between her and the building , lay a piece of water , in which the lighted windows were reflected , and on its nearest margin was a plantation of trees . 
She placed her orderly little basket at her side , and sank upon the ground , supporting herself against the tree . 
It brought to her mind the foot of the Cross , and she committed herself to Him who died upon it . 
Her strength held out to enable her to arrange the letter in her breast , so as that it could be seen that she had a paper there . 
It had held out for this , and it departed when this was done . 
'I am safe here , was her last benumbed thought . 
'When I am found dead at the foot of the Cross , it will be by some of my own sort some of the working people who work among the lights yonder . 
I cannot see the lighted windows now , but they are there . 
I am thankful for all ! The darkness gone , and a face bending down . 
'It cannot be the boofer lady ? 'I don't understand what you say . 
Let me wet your lips again with this brandy . 
I have been away to fetch it . 
Did you think that I was long gone ? It is as the face of a woman , shaded by a quantity of rich dark hair . 
It is the earnest face of a woman who is young and handsome . 
But all is over with me on earth , and this must be an Angel . 
'Have I been long dead ? 'I don't understand what you say . 
Let me wet your lips again . 
I hurried all I could , and brought no one back with me , lest you should die of the shock of strangers . 
'Am I not dead ? 'I cannot understand what you say . 
Your voice is so low and broken that I cannot hear you . 
Do you hear me ? 'Yes . 
'Do you mean Yes ? 'Yes . 
, and I heard a groan , and found you lying here . 
'What work , deary ? 'Did you ask what work ? At the paper mill . 
'Where is it ? 'Your face is turned up to the sky , and you can't see it . 
You can see my face , here , between you and the sky ? 'Yes . 
'Dare I lift you ? 'Not yet . 
'Not even lift your head to get it on my arm ? I will do it by very gentle degrees . 
You shall hardly feel it . 
'This paper in your breast ? 'Bless ye ! 'Let me wet your lips again . 
I have heard them often . 
'Will you send it , my dear ? 'I cannot understand you . 
Let me wet your lips again , and your forehead . 
O poor thing , poor thing ! These words through her fast dropping tears . 
'What was it that you asked me ? Wait till I bring my ear quite close . 
'Will you send it , my dear ? 'Will I send it to the writers ? Is that your wish ? Yes , certainly . 
'You'll not give it up to any one but them ? 'No . 
'As you must grow old in time , and come to your dying hour , my dear , you'll not give it up to any one but them ? 'No . 
'Never to the Parish ! with a convulsed struggle . 
'Nor let the Parish touch me , not yet so much as look at me ! with another struggle . 
A look of thankfulness and triumph lights the worn old face . 
'I must be sore disfigured . 
Are you afraid to kiss me ? The answer is , the ready pressure of her lips upon the cold but smiling mouth . 
'Bless ye ! NOW lift me , my love . 
Lizzie Hexam very softly raised the weather stained grey head , and lifted her as high as Heaven . 
Chapter SOMEBODY BECOMES THE SUBJECT OF A PREDICTION We give thee hearty thanks for that it hath pleased thee to deliver this our sister out of the miseries of this sinful world . 
Selfish in Sloppy , and yet excusable , it may be humbly hoped , because our sister had been more than his mother . 
These , over and above Sloppy , were the mourners at the lowly grave . 
Not a penny had been added to the money sewn in her dress what her honest spirit had so long projected , was fulfilled . 
'SHE warn't , sir , said Sloppy , taking this ghostly counsel rather ill , in behalf of his late benefactress . 
'Let us speak for ourselves , sir . 
She went through with whatever duty she had to do . 
She went through with me , she went through with the Minders , she went through with herself , she went through with everythink . 
'Not a very poor grave , said the Reverend Frank Milvey , brushing his hand across his eyes , 'when it has that homely figure on it . 
Richer , I think , than it could be made by most of the sculpture in Westminster Abbey ! They left him undisturbed , and passed out at the wicket gate . 
The water wheel of the paper mill was audible there , and seemed to have a softening influence on the bright wintry scene . 
'I could not have done it all , or nearly all , of myself , said Lizzie . 
'I should not have wanted the will but I should not have had the power , without our managing partner . 
'Surely not the Jew who received us ? said Mrs Milvey . 
'The gentleman certainly is a Jew , said Lizzie , 'and the lady , his wife , is a Jewess , and I was first brought to their notice by a Jew . 
But I think there cannot be kinder people in the world . 
'But suppose they try to convert you ! suggested Mrs Milvey , bristling in her good little way , as a clergyman's wife . 
'To do what , ma'am ? asked Lizzie , with a modest smile . 
'To make you change your religion , said Mrs Milvey . 
Lizzie shook her head , still smiling . 
'They have never asked me what my religion is . 
They asked me what my story was , and I told them . 
They asked me to be industrious and faithful , and I promised to be so . 
They most willingly and cheerfully do their duty to all of us who are employed here , and we try to do ours to them . 
Indeed they do much more than their duty to us , for they are wonderfully mindful of us in many ways . 
'It is easy to see you're a favourite , my dear , said little Mrs Milvey , not quite pleased . 
'It would be very ungrateful in me to say I am not , returned Lizzie , 'for I have been already raised to a place of confidence here . 
But that makes no difference in their following their own religion and leaving all of us to ours . 
They never talk of theirs to us , and they never talk of ours to us . 
If I was the last in the mill , it would be just the same . 
They never asked me what religion that poor thing had followed . 
'My dear , said Mrs Milvey , aside to the Reverend Frank , 'I wish you would talk to her . 
'My dear , said the Reverend Frank aside to his good little wife , 'I think I will leave it to somebody else . 
The circumstances are hardly favourable . 
There are plenty of talkers going about , my love , and she will soon find one . 
While this discourse was interchanging , both Bella and the Secretary observed Lizzie Hexam with great attention . 
Both had expected to see something very different from the real Lizzie Hexam , and thus it fell out that she became the unconscious means of bringing them together . 
Bella at length said 'Hadn't we better talk about the commission we have undertaken , Mr Rokesmith ? 'By all means , said the Secretary . 
'I suppose , faltered Bella , 'that we ARE both commissioned , or we shouldn't both be here ? 'I suppose so , was the Secretary's answer . 
'Mr Boffin , said the Secretary , 'directed me to come for the same purpose . 
As they spoke they were leaving the little street and emerging on the wooded landscape by the river . 
'You think well of her , Mr Rokesmith ? pursued Bella , conscious of making all the advances . 
'I think highly of her . 
'I am so glad of that ! Something quite refined in her beauty , is there not ? 'Her appearance is very striking . 
'There is a shade of sadness upon her that is quite touching . 
I hope it may not , said the Secretary in a lower voice , 'be the result of the false accusation which has been retracted . 
The Secretary as suddenly brightened , and returned 'Upon my honour I had no thought but for you . 
I forced myself to be constrained , lest you might misinterpret my being more natural . 
'Thank you , said Bella , holding out her little hand . 
'No ! cried the Secretary , eagerly . 
than any other glitter in the world . 
So was I going to speak to you , if I could have begun . 
'It is my duty to find out why she made that stipulation . 
I have it in charge from Mr Boffin to discover , and I am very desirous for myself to discover , whether that retracted accusation still leaves any stain upon her . 
I mean whether it places her at any disadvantage towards any one , even towards herself . 
'Yes , said Bella , nodding thoughtfully 'I understand . 
That seems wise , and considerate . 
'You may not have noticed , Miss Wilfer , that she has the same kind of interest in you , that you have in her . 
Just as you are attracted by her beaut by her appearance and manner , she is attracted by yours . 
Of course you would not be asked to betray it and of course you would not , if you were . 
Mr Boffin is anxious on the subject . 
And I am , added the Secretary after a moment , 'for a special reason , very anxious . 
'Don't say that , urged the Secretary . 
'Oh , but I mean that , said Bella , raising her eyebrows . 
'No one is useless in this world , retorted the Secretary , 'who lightens the burden of it for any one else . 
'But I assure you I DON'T , Mr Rokesmith , said Bella . 
'Not for your father ? 'Dear , loving , self forgetting , easily satisfied Pa ! Oh , yes ! He thinks so . 
'It is enough if he only thinks so , said the Secretary . 
'Excuse the interruption I don't like to hear you depreciate yourself . 
'Mr Rokesmith , it seems so long since we spoke together naturally , that I am embarrassed in approaching another subject . 
And also that you are his favourite companion . 
'That makes it , said Bella , 'so very difficult to speak of him . 
Does he treat you well ? 'You see how he treats me , the Secretary answered , with a patient and yet proud air . 
'Yes , and I see it with pain , said Bella , very energetically . 
The Secretary gave her such a radiant look , that if he had thanked her a hundred times , he could not have said as much as the look said . 
'I see it with pain , repeated Bella , 'and it often makes me miserable . 
Miserable , because I cannot bear to be supposed to approve of it , or have any indirect share in it . 
Miserable , because I cannot bear to be forced to admit to myself that Fortune is spoiling Mr Boffin . 
'Oh , don't speak of ME , said Bella , giving herself an impatient little slap with her glove . 
'You don't know me as well as 'As you know yourself ? suggested the Secretary , finding that she stopped . 
'That Mr Boffin's manner to me , or consideration for me , is not what it used to be , observed the Secretary , 'must be admitted . 
It is too plain to be denied . 
'Are you disposed to deny it , Mr Rokesmith ? asked Bella , with a look of wonder . 
Believe that they are not all mercenary , although I have , through a series of strange fatalities , faded out of my place in life . 
urging me to quiet endurance . 
The latter are by far the stronger . 
I repress myself and force myself to act a part . 
It is not in tameness of spirit that I submit . 
I have a settled purpose . 
'And a good one , I hope , said Bella . 
'And a good one , I hope , he answered , looking steadily at her . 
'Sometimes I have fancied , sir , said Bella , turning away her eyes , 'that your great regard for Mrs Boffin is a very powerful motive with you . 
'You are right again it is . 
I would do anything for her , bear anything for her . 
There are no words to express how I esteem that good , good woman . 
'As I do too ! May I ask you one thing more , Mr Rokesmith ? 'Anything more . 
'To give her pain ? said Bella , repeating the phrase quickly , with her eyebrows raised . 
'I am generally the unfortunate cause of it . 
'Perhaps she says to you , as she often says to me , that he is the best of men , in spite of all . 
who was moralizing on Life , heaved a little sigh , and gave up things in general for a bad job , as she had previously been inclined to give up herself . 
But , for all that , they had a very pleasant walk . 
So , they walked , speaking of the newly filled up grave , and of Johnny , and of many things . 
So , they got back to the village as Lizzie Hexam was coming from the paper mill , and Bella detached herself to speak with her in her own home . 
'I am afraid it is a poor room for you , said Lizzie , with a smile of welcome , as she offered the post of honour by the fireside . 
'Not so poor as you think , my dear , returned Bella , 'if you knew all . 
The day was closing as the two girls looked at one another by the fireside . 
The dusky room was lighted by the fire . 
The grate might have been the old brazier , and the glow might have been the old hollow down by the flare . 
'It's quite new to me , said Lizzie , 'to be visited by a lady so nearly of my own age , and so pretty , as you . 
It's a pleasure to me to look at you . 
'I have nothing left to begin with , returned Bella , blushing , 'because I was going to say that it was a pleasure to me to look at you , Lizzie . 
But we can begin without a beginning , can't we ? Lizzie took the pretty little hand that was held out in as pretty a little frankness . 
It is in reference to your letter to Mr and Mrs Boffin , and this is what it is . 
Oh yes ! This is what it is . 
So I was dragged into the subject without my consent , and you were dragged into it without your consent , and there is very little to choose between us . 
'I had no doubt , said Lizzie , 'that you were the Miss Wilfer I have often heard named . 
Can you tell me who my unknown friend is ? 'Unknown friend , my dear ? said Bella . 
'Who caused the charge against poor father to be contradicted , and sent me the written paper . 
Bella had never heard of him . 
Had no notion who he was . 
'I should have been glad to thank him , returned Lizzie . 
'He has done a great deal for me . 
I must hope that he will let me thank him some day . 
You asked me has it anything to do 'It or the accusation itself , Bella put in . 
'Have you lived much alone ? asked Bella . 
It's nothing new to me . 
I used to be always alone many hours together , in the day and in the night , when poor father was alive . 
'You have a brother , I have been told ? 'I have a brother , but he is not friendly with me . 
He is a very good boy though , and has raised himself by his industry . 
I don't complain of him . 
As she said it , with her eyes upon the fire glow , there was an instantaneous escape of distress into her face . 
Bella seized the moment to touch her hand . 
'Lizzie , I wish you would tell me whether you have any friend of your own sex and age . 
'I have lived that lonely kind of life , that I have never had one , was the answer . 
'Nor I neither , said Bella . 
I wish you could make a friend of me , Lizzie . 
Do you think you could ? I have no more of what they call character , my dear , than a canary bird , but I know I am trustworthy . 
To Lizzie it was so new , so pretty , at once so womanly and so childish , that it won her completely . 
'Tell me , my dear , said Bella , 'what is the matter , and why you live like this . 
Lizzie presently began , by way of prelude , 'You must have many lovers when Bella checked her with a little scream of astonishment . 
'My dear , I haven't one ! 'Not one ? 'Well ! Perhaps one , said Bella . 
'I am sure I don't know . 
I HAD one , but what he may think about it at the present time I can't say . 
However , never mind me . 
I want to hear about you . 
'There is a certain man , said Lizzie , 'a passionate and angry man , who says he loves me , and who I must believe does love me . 
He is the friend of my brother . 
I shrank from him within myself when my brother first brought him to me but the last time I saw him he terrified me more than I can say . 
'Did you come here to escape from him , Lizzie ? 'I came here immediately after he so alarmed me . 
'Are you afraid of him here ? 'I am not timid generally , but I am always afraid of him . 
I am afraid to see a newspaper , or to hear a word spoken of what is done in London , lest he should have done some violence . 
'Then you are not afraid of him for yourself , dear ? said Bella , after pondering on the words . 
'I should be even that , if I met him about here . 
I look round for him always , as I pass to and fro at night . 
'Are you afraid of anything he may do to himself in London , my dear ? 'No . 
He might be fierce enough even to do some violence to himself , but I don't think of that . 
I have tried hard to think it not worth remembering , but I cannot make so little of it . 
'Does he love you ? Lizzie shook her head . 
'Does he admire you ? Lizzie ceased to shake her head , and pressed her hand upon her living girdle . 
'Lizzie , dear ! Why ? asked Bella , in amazement at this burst . 
But then quickly added , reading Lizzie's face 'No . 
That was a foolish question of mine . 
I see , I see . 
There was silence between them . 
'You know all now , she said , raising her eyes to Bella's . 
'There is nothing left out . 
This is my reason for living secret here , with the aid of a good old man who is my true friend . 
For a short part of my life at home with father , I knew of things don't ask me what that I set my face against , and tried to better . 
I don't think I could have done more , then , without letting my hold on father go but they sometimes lie heavy on my mind . 
By doing all for the best , I hope I may wear them out . 
'And wear out too , said Bella soothingly , 'this weakness , Lizzie , in favour of one who is not worthy of it . 
I don't want to wear that out , was the flushed reply , 'nor do I want to believe , nor do I believe , that he is not worthy of it . 
'But you said , Lizzie , observed Bella , returning to her subject when she had administered this chastisement , 'that you would lose , besides . 
They trembled , but with no weakness , as she showed them . 
'Understand me , my dear thus she went on . 
I have no more dreamed of the possibility of MY being his wife , than he ever has and words could not be stronger than that . 
And yet I love him . 
I love him so much , and so dearly , that when I sometimes think my life may be but a weary one , I am proud of it and glad of it . 
I am proud and glad to suffer something for him , even though it is of no service to him , and he will never know of it or care for it . 
Bella sat enchained by the deep , unselfish passion of this girl or woman of her own age , courageously revealing itself in the confidence of her sympathetic perception of its truth . 
And yet she had never experienced anything like it , or thought of the existence of anything like it . 
'It was late upon a wretched night , said Lizzie , 'when his eyes first looked at me in my old river side home , very different from this . 
His eyes may never look at me again . 
I would rather that they never did I hope that they never may . 
But I would not have the light of them taken out of my life , for anything my life can give me . 
I have told you everything now , my dear . 
If it comes a little strange to me to have parted with it , I am not sorry . 
I had no thought of ever parting with a single word of it , a moment before you came in but you came in , and my mind changed . 
Bella kissed her on the cheek , and thanked her warmly for her confidence . 
'I only wish , said Bella , 'I was more deserving of it . 
'More deserving of it ? repeated Lizzie , with an incredulous smile . 
What I mean is , Lizzie , that I am a mere impertinent piece of conceit , and you shame me . 
But I AM such a nasty little thing ! 'My dear ! urged Lizzie again . 
'Such a shallow , cold , worldly , Limited little brute ! said Bella , bringing out her last adjective with culminating force . 
'Do you think , inquired Lizzie with her quiet smile , the hair being now secured , 'that I don't know better ? 'DO you know better though ? said Bella . 
Does that look ill ? 'No , I hope it doesn't , pouted Bella , stopping herself in something between a humoured laugh and a humoured sob . 
'I used once to see pictures in the fire , said Lizzie playfully , 'to please my brother . 
'Shall I tell you , asked Lizzie , 'what I see down there ? 'Limited little b ? suggested Bella with her eyebrows raised . 
'A heart well worth winning , and well won . 
A heart that , once won , goes through fire and water for the winner , and never changes , and is never daunted . 
'Girl's heart ? asked Bella , with accompanying eyebrows . 
'And the figure to which it belongs Is yours , suggested Bella . 
Most clearly and distinctly yours . 
There with Lizzie returned to her occupation , and Bella ran over to the little inn to rejoin her company . 
'You look rather serious , Miss Wilfer , was the Secretary's first remark . 
'I feel rather serious , returned Miss Wilfer . 
She had nothing else to tell him but that Lizzie Hexam's secret had no reference whatever to the cruel charge , or its withdrawal . 
Oh yes though ! said Bella she might as well mention one other thing Lizzie was very desirous to thank her unknown friend who had sent her the written retractation . 
Was she , indeed ? observed the Secretary . 
Ah ! Bella asked him , had he any notion who that unknown friend might be ? He had no notion whatever . 
They were on the borders of Oxfordshire , so far had poor old Betty Higden strayed . 
Few rustic paths are wide enough for five , and Bella and the Secretary dropped behind . 
'No , I am not at all tired . 
I have not quite expressed what I mean . 
I don't mean that I feel as if a great space of time had gone by , but that I feel as if much had happened to myself , you know . 
'For good , I hope ? 'I hope so , said Bella . 
'You are cold I felt you tremble . 
Pray let me put this wrapper of mine about you . 
May I fold it over this shoulder without injuring your dress ? Now , it will be too heavy and too long . 
Let me carry this end over my arm , as you have no arm to give me . 
How she got it out , in her muffled state , Heaven knows but she got it out somehow there it was and slipped it through the Secretary's . 
'I have had a long and interesting talk with Lizzie , Mr Rokesmith , and she gave me her full confidence . 
'She could not withhold it , said the Secretary . 
'And how was that , do you mean to say , sir ? asked Bella , moving again . 
'That if you were inclined to win her confidence anybody's confidence you were sure to do it . 
The railway , at this point , knowingly shutting a green eye and opening a red one , they had to run for it . 
As Bella could not run easily so wrapped up , the Secretary had to help her . 
Miss Wren was busy at her work by candle light , and Mr Wrayburn , half amused and half vexed , and all idle and shiftless , stood by her bench looking on . 
Miss Wren's troublesome child was in the corner in deep disgrace , and exhibiting great wretchedness in the shivering stage of prostration from drink . 
Pay five shillings fine for you indeed . 
Fine in more ways than one , I think ! I'd give the dustman five shillings , to carry you off in the dust cart . 
'No , no , pleaded the absurd creature . 
'Please ! 'He's enough to break his mother's heart , is this boy , said Miss Wren , half appealing to Eugene . 
'I wish I had never brought him up . 
He'd be sharper than a serpent's tooth , if he wasn't as dull as ditch water . 
, he was a pretty object for any eyes . 
Deration , oh don't ! cried the subject of these angry remarks . 
'Oh don't and oh don't , pursued Miss Wren . 
'It's oh do and oh do . 
And why do you ? 'Won't do so any more . 
Pray ! 'There ! said Miss Wren , covering her eyes with her hand . 
'I can't bear to look at you . 
Go up stairs and get me my bonnet and shawl . 
Make yourself useful in some way , bad boy , and let me have your room instead of your company , for one half minute . 
Obeying her , he shambled out , and Eugene Wrayburn saw the tears exude from between the little creature's fingers as she kept her hand before her eyes . 
He was sorry , but his sympathy did not move his carelessness to do anything but feel sorry . 
Let me first tell you , once for all , that it's of no use your paying visits to me . 
You wouldn't get what you want , of me , no , not if you brought pincers with you to tear it out . 
'Are you so obstinate on the subject of a doll's dress for my godchild ? 'Ah ! returned Miss Wren with a hitch of her chin , 'I am so obstinate . 
And of course it's on the subject of a doll's dress or ADdress whichever you like . 
Get along and give it up ! Her degraded charge had come back , and was standing behind her with the bonnet and shawl . 
'Give 'em to me and get back into your corner , you naughty old thing ! said Miss Wren , as she turned and espied him . 
'No , no , I won't have your help . 
'Now you prodigal old son , said Jenny , shaking her head and her emphatic little forefinger at her burden , 'you sit there till I come back . 
You dare to move out of your corner for a single instant while I'm gone , and I'll know the reason why . 
Eugene lounged slowly towards the Temple , smoking his cigar , but saw no more of the dolls' dressmaker , through the accident of their taking opposite sides of the street . 
No less an object than Jenny Wren's bad boy trying to make up his mind to cross the road . 
'It strikes me , remarked Eugene coolly , after watching him for some minutes , 'that my friend is likely to be rather behind time if he has any appointment on hand . 
With which remark he strolled on , and took no further thought of him . 
Lightwood was at home when he got to the Chambers , and had dined alone there . 
Eugene drew a chair to the fire by which he was having his wine and reading the evening paper , and brought a glass , and filled it for good fellowship's sake . 
'My dear Mortimer , you are the express picture of contented industry , reposing after the virtuous labours of the day . 
'My dear Eugene , you are the express picture of discontented idleness not reposing at all . 
Where have you been ? 'I have been , replied Wrayburn , about town . 
I have turned up at the present juncture , with the intention of consulting my highly intelligent and respected solicitor on the position of my affairs . 
'Your highly intelligent and respect solicitor is of opinion that your affairs are in a bad way , Eugene . 
'You have fallen into the hands of the Jews , Eugene . 
'My dear boy , returned the debtor , very composedly taking up his glass , 'having previously fallen into the hands of some of the Christians , I can bear it with philosophy . 
'I have had an interview to day , Eugene , with a Jew , who seems determined to press us hard . 
Quite a Shylock , and quite a Patriarch . 
A picturesque grey headed and grey bearded old Jew , in a shovel hat and gaberdine . 
'Not , said Eugene , pausing in setting down his glass , 'surely not my worthy friend Mr Aaron ? 'He calls himself Mr Riah . 
Notwithstanding which strong reasons for its being his name , it may not be his name . 
'I believe you are the absurdest man on the face of the earth , said Lightwood , laughing . 
'Not at all , I assure you . 
Did he mention that he knew me ? 'He did not . 
He only said of you that he expected to be paid by you . 
'Which looks , remarked Eugene with much gravity , 'like NOT knowing me . 
I hope it may not be my worthy friend Mr Aaron , for , to tell you the truth , Mortimer , I doubt he may have a prepossession against me . 
I strongly suspect him of having had a hand in spiriting away Lizzie . 
'Everything , returned Lightwood impatiently , 'seems , by a fatality , to bring us round to Lizzie . 
About town meant about Lizzie , just now , Eugene . 
'And yet , Eugene , you know you do not really care for her . 
Eugene Wrayburn rose , and put his hands in his pockets , and stood with a foot on the fender , indolently rocking his body and looking at the fire . 
After a prolonged pause , he replied 'I don't know that . 
I must ask you not to say that , as if we took it for granted . 
'But if you do care for her , so much the more should you leave her to herself . 
Having again paused as before , Eugene said 'I don't know that , either . 
Did you ever see me take so much trouble about anything , as about this disappearance of hers ? I ask , for information . 
'My dear Eugene , I wish I ever had ! 'Then you have not ? Just so . 
You confirm my own impression . 
Does that look as if I cared for her ? I ask , for information . 
'I asked YOU for information , Eugene , said Mortimer reproachfully . 
'Dear boy , I know it , but I can't give it . 
? Though he said this gaily , he said it with a perplexed and inquisitive face , as if he actually did not know what to make of himself . 
'Look on to the end Lightwood was beginning to remonstrate , when he caught at the words 'Ah ! See now ! That's exactly what I am incapable of doing . 
Fair means or foul means , are all alike to me . 
I am on duty to night , and will see to the door . 
'This interesting gentleman , said Eugene , 'is the son the occasionally rather trying son , for he has his failings of a lady of my acquaintance . 
My dear Mortimer Mr Dolls . 
Eugene had no idea what his name was , knowing the little dressmaker's to be assumed , but presented him with easy confidence under the first appellation that his associations suggested . 
I have mentioned to Mr Dolls that you and I are on terms of confidence , and have requested Mr Dolls to develop his views here . 
The wretched object being much embarrassed by holding what remained of his hat , Eugene airily tossed it to the door , and put him down in a chair . 
'It will be necessary , I think , he observed , 'to wind up Mr Dolls , before anything to any mortal purpose can be got out of him . 
Brandy , Mr Dolls , or ? 'Threepenn'orth Rum , said Mr Dolls . 
'The nerves of Mr Dolls , remarked Eugene to Lightwood , 'are considerably unstrung . 
And I deem it on the whole expedient to fumigate Mr Dolls . 
State your business , Dolls . 
'Mist Wrayburn ! said the visitor , thickly and huskily . 
'TIS Mist Wrayburn , ain't ? With a stupid stare . 
What do you want ? Mr Dolls collapsed in his chair , and faintly said 'Threepenn'orth Rum . 
'Will you do me the favour , my dear Mortimer , to wind up Mr Dolls again ? said Eugene . 
'I am occupied with the fumigation . 
A similar quantity was poured into his glass , and he got it to his lips by similar circuitous ways . 
Having drunk it , Mr Dolls , with an evident fear of running down again unless he made haste , proceeded to business . 
Tried to nudge you , but you wouldn't . 
You want t'know where she lives . 
DO you Mist Wrayburn ? With a glance at his friend , Eugene replied to the question sternly , 'I do . 
'I am er man , said Mr Dolls , trying to smite himself on the breast , but bringing his hand to bear upon the vicinity of his eye , 'er do it . 
I am er man er do it . 
'What are you the man to do ? demanded Eugene , still sternly . 
'Er give up that drection . 
'What do you mean then ? Mr Dolls , collapsing in the drowsiest manner after his late intellectual triumph , replied 'Threepenn'orth Rum . 
'Wind him up again , my dear Mortimer , said Wrayburn 'wind him up again . 
These are foul , and I'll take them if I am not first tempted to break the head of Mr Dolls with the fumigator . 
Can you get the direction ? Do you mean that ? Speak ! If that's what you have come for , say how much you want . 
'Ten shillings Threepenn'orths Rum , said Mr Dolls . 
'Fifteen shillings Threepenn'orths Rum , said Mr Dolls , making an attempt to stiffen himself . 
How will you get the direction you talk of ? 'I am er man , said Mr Dolls , with majesty , 'er get it , sir . 
'How will you get it , I ask you ? 'I am ill used vidual , said Mr Dolls . 
She makes Mint money , sir , and never stands Threepenn'orth Rum . 
'Get on , rejoined Eugene , tapping his palsied head with the fire shovel , as it sank on his breast . 
'She looks upon me as mere child , sir . 
I am NOT mere child , sir . 
Easy for man talent er get drection , as get his own drection . 
The latter clauses of these special instructions he addressed to the fire , as he gave it back the ashes he had taken from it , and replaced the shovel . 
Mr Dolls then fell a crying , and then exhibited a tendency to fall asleep . 
This last manifestation as by far the most alarming , by reason of its threatening his prolonged stay on the premises , necessitated vigorous measures . 
There , he turned his face westward , and left him . 
When he got back , Lightwood was standing over the fire , brooding in a sufficiently low spirited manner . 
'I'll wash my hands of Mr Dolls physically said Eugene , 'and be with you again directly , Mortimer . 
'I would much prefer , retorted Mortimer , 'your washing your hands of Mr Dolls , morally , Eugene . 
'So would I , said Eugene 'but you see , dear boy , I can't do without him . 
In a minute or two he resumed his chair , as perfectly unconcerned as usual , and rallied his friend on having so narrowly escaped the prowess of their muscular visitor . 
'I can't be amused on this theme , said Mortimer , restlessly . 
'You can make almost any theme amusing to me , Eugene , but not this . 
'Well ! cried Eugene , 'I am a little ashamed of it myself , and therefore let us change the subject . 
'It is so deplorably underhanded , said Mortimer . 
'It is so unworthy of you , this setting on of such a shameful scout . 
'We have changed the subject ! exclaimed Eugene , airily . 
'We have found a new one in that word , scout . 
Don't be like Patience on a mantelpiece frowning at Dolls , but sit down , and I'll tell you something that you really will find amusing . 
Look at this of mine . 
I light it draw one puff breathe the smoke out there it goes it's Dolls ! it's gone and being gone you are a man again . 
'Your subject , said Mortimer , after lighting a cigar , and comforting himself with a whiff or two , 'was scouts , Eugene . 
'On my honour , no , said Wrayburn , answering the look and smiling carelessly 'I don't wonder at your supposing so , but on my honour , no . 
I say what I mean . 
I never go out after dark , but I find myself in the ludicrous situation of being followed and observed at a distance , always by one scout , and often by two . 
'Are you sure , Eugene ? 'Sure ? My dear boy , they are always the same . 
'But there's no process out against you . 
Besides , they know where to find you , and I represent you . 
Why take the trouble ? 'Observe the legal mind ! remarked Eugene , turning round to the furniture again , with an air of indolent rapture . 
'Observe the dyer's hand , assimilating itself to what it works in , or would work in , if anybody would give it anything to do . 
Respected solicitor , it's not that . 
'The schoolmaster ? 'Ay ! Sometimes the schoolmaster and the pupil are both abroad . 
Why , how soon you rust in my absence ! You don't understand yet ? Those fellows who were here one night . 
They are the scouts I speak of , as doing me the honour to attend me after dark . 
'How long has this been going on ? asked Lightwood , opposing a serious face to the laugh of his friend . 
'I apprehend it has been going on , ever since a certain person went off . 
Probably , it had been going on some little time before I noticed it which would bring it to about that time . 
But you called the situation just now , a ludicrous one and most men object to that , even those who are utterly indifferent to everything else . 
'You charm me , Mortimer , with your reading of my weaknesses . 
I was mentioning your perception of my weaknesses . 
I own to the weakness of objecting to occupy a ludicrous position , and therefore I transfer the position to the scouts . 
'I wish , Eugene , you would speak a little more soberly and plainly , if it were only out of consideration for my feeling less at ease than you do . 
'Then soberly and plainly , Mortimer , I goad the schoolmaster to madness . 
I make the schoolmaster so ridiculous , and so aware of being made ridiculous , that I see him chafe and fret at every pore when we cross one another . 
The amiable occupation has been the solace of my life , since I was baulked in the manner unnecessary to recall . 
I have derived inexpressible comfort from it . 
I do it thus I stroll out after dark , stroll a little way , look in at a window and furtively look out for the schoolmaster . 
Sooner or later , I perceive the schoolmaster on the watch sometimes accompanied by his hopeful pupil oftener , pupil less . 
Having made sure of his watching me , I tempt him on , all over London . 
One night I go east , another night north , in a few nights I go all round the compass . 
Sometimes , I walk sometimes , I proceed in cabs , draining the pocket of the schoolmaster who then follows in cabs . 
I study and get up abstruse No Thoroughfares in the course of the day . 
Then we face one another , and I pass him as unaware of his existence , and he undergoes grinding torments . 
Similarly , I walk at a great pace down a short street , rapidly turn the corner , and , getting out of his view , as rapidly turn back . 
I catch him coming on post , again pass him as unaware of his existence , and again he undergoes grinding torments . 
Night after night his disappointment is acute , but hope springs eternal in the scholastic breast , and he follows me again to morrow . 
Thus I enjoy the pleasures of the chase , and derive great benefit from the healthful exercise . 
When I do not enjoy the pleasures of the chase , for anything I know he watches at the Temple Gate all night . 
'This is an extraordinary story , observed Lightwood , who had heard it out with serious attention . 
'You are a little hipped , dear fellow , said Eugene 'you have been too sedentary . 
Come and enjoy the pleasures of the chase . 
'Do you mean that you believe he is watching now ? 'I have not the slightest doubt he is . 
'Have you seen him to night ? 'I forgot to look for him when I was last out , returned Eugene with the calmest indifference 'but I dare say he was there . 
Come ! Be a British sportsman and enjoy the pleasures of the chase . 
It will do you good . 
Lightwood hesitated but , yielding to his curiosity , rose . 
'Bravo ! cried Eugene , rising too . 
'Or , if Yoicks would be in better keeping , consider that I said Yoicks . 
Look to your feet , Mortimer , for we shall try your boots . 
'I am always serious , but just now I am a little excited by the glorious fact that a southerly wind and a cloudy sky proclaim a hunting evening . 
We turn out the lamp and shut the door , and take the field . 
What is your opinion of Bethnal Green ? Mortimer assented to Bethnal Green , and they turned eastward . 
'Now , when we come to St Paul's churchyard , pursued Eugene , 'we'll loiter artfully , and I'll show you the schoolmaster . 
But , they both saw him , before they got there alone , and stealing after them in the shadow of the houses , on the opposite side of the way . 
'Get your wind , said Eugene , 'for I am off directly . 
It was not too strong a phrase for the occasion . 
Mortimer Lightwood was not an extraordinarily impressible man , but this face impressed him . 
He spoke of it more than once on the remainder of the way home , and more than once when they got home . 
'Nothing wrong , Mortimer ? 'No . 
'What fancy takes you , then , for walking about in the night ? 'I am horribly wakeful . 
'How comes that about , I wonder ! 'Eugene , I cannot lose sight of that fellow's face . 
'Odd ! said Eugene with a light laugh , 'I can . 
And turned over , and fell asleep again . 
Chapter IN THE DARK There was no sleep for Bradley Headstone on that night when Eugene Wrayburn turned so easily in his bed there was no sleep for little Miss Peecher . 
Yet more was amiss with him than Miss Peecher's simply arranged little work box of thoughts , fitted with no gloomy and dark recesses , could hold . 
For , the state of the man was murderous . 
The state of the man was murderous , and he knew it . 
More he irritated it , with a kind of perverse pleasure akin to that which a sick man sometimes has in irritating a wound upon his body . 
Under his daily restraint , it was his compensation , not his trouble , to give a glance towards his state at night , and to the freedom of its being indulged . 
If great criminals told the truth which , being great criminals , they do not they would very rarely tell of their struggles against the crime . 
Their struggles are towards it . 
They buffet with opposing waves , to gain the bloody shore , not to recede from it . 
All his pains were taken , to the end that he might incense himself with the sight of the detested figure in her company and favour , in her place of concealment . 
And he knew as well what act of his would follow if he did , as he knew that his mother had borne him . 
Granted , that he may not have held it necessary to make express mention to himself of the one familiar truth any more than of the other . 
He knew equally well that he fed his wrath and hatred , and that he accumulated provocation and self justification , by being made the nightly sport of the reckless and insolent Eugene . 
A man of rapid passions and sluggish intelligence , it had served him often and should serve him again . 
The suspicion crossed him as he rested in a doorway with his eyes upon the Temple gate , that perhaps she was even concealed in that set of Chambers . 
It would furnish another reason for Wrayburn's purposeless walks , and it might be . 
He thought of it and thought of it , until he resolved to steal up the stairs , if the gatekeeper would let him through , and listen . 
The watchman looked at it , and asked 'Who for ? 'Mr Wrayburn . 
'He came back with Mr Lightwood , I know , near upon two hours ago . 
But if he has gone to bed , I'll put a paper in his letter box . 
The watchman said no more , but opened the gate , though rather doubtfully . 
Seeing , however , that the visitor went straight and fast in the right direction , he seemed satisfied . 
The haggard head floated up the dark staircase , and softly descended nearer to the floor outside the outer door of the chambers . 
The doors of the rooms within , appeared to be standing open . 
There were rays of candlelight from one of them , and there was the sound of a footstep going about . 
The words they uttered were not distinguishable , but they were both the voices of men . 
In a few moments the voices were silent , and there was no sound of footstep , and the inner light went out . 
'Not there , said Bradley 'but she might have been . 
The head arose to its former height from the ground , floated down the stair case again , and passed on to the gate . 
A man was standing there , in parley with the watchman . 
'Oh ! said the watchman . 
'Here he is ! Perceiving himself to be the antecedent , Bradley looked from the watchman to the man . 
It might be the same business perhaps ? 'No , said Bradley , glancing at the man , who was a stranger to him . 
'No , the man assented in a surly way 'my letter it's wrote by my daughter , but it's mine is about my business , and my business ain't nobody else's business . 
As Bradley passed out at the gate with an undecided foot , he heard it shut behind him , and heard the footstep of the man coming after him . 
'With , returned the man , pointing backward over his right shoulder with his right thumb , 'the T'other Governor ? 'I don't know what you mean . 
'Why look here , hooking his proposition on his left hand fingers with the forefinger of his right . 
'Hooroar ! cried the man . 
Hooroar T'otherest Governor ! I am of your way of thinkin' . 
'Don't make such a noise at this dead hour of the night . 
What are you talking about ? 'Look here , T'otherest Governor , replied the man , becoming hoarsely confidential . 
'The T'other Governor he's always joked his jokes agin me , owing , as I believe , to my being a honest man as gets my living by the sweat of my brow . 
Which he ain't , and he don't . 
'What is that to me ? 'T'otherest Governor , returned the man in a tone of injured innocence , 'if you don't care to hear no more , don't hear no more . 
You said , and likeways showed pretty plain , as you warn't by no means friendly to him . 
But I don't seek to force my company nor yet my opinions on no man . 
I am a honest man , that's what I am . 
Put me in the dock anywhere I don't care where and I says , My Lord , I am a honest man . 
Put me in the witness box anywhere I don't care where and I says the same to his lordship , and I kisses the book . 
I don't kiss my coat cuff I kisses the book . 
I didn't mean to stop you . 
You were too loud in the open street that was all . 
''Totherest Governor , replied Mr Riderhood , mollified and mysterious , 'I know wot it is to be loud , and I know wot it is to be soft . 
And wishing that your elth may be better than your looks , which your inside must be bad indeed if it's on the footing of your out . 
Startled by the implication that his face revealed too much of his mind , Bradley made an effort to clear his brow . 
It might be worth knowing what this strange man's business was with Lightwood , or Wrayburn , or both , at such an unseasonable hour . 
He set himself to find out , for the man might prove to be a messenger between those two . 
'You call at the Temple late , he remarked , with a lumbering show of ease . 
'And it chanced so with me , said Riderhood . 
'But I don't mind telling you how . 
Why should I mind telling you ? I'm a Deputy Lock keeper up the river , and I was off duty yes'day , and I shall be on to morrow . 
'Yes ? 'Yes , and I come to London to look arter my private affairs . 
My private affairs is to get appinted to the Lock as reg'lar keeper at fust hand , and to have the law of a busted B'low Bridge steamer which drownded of me . 
I ain't a goin' to be drownded and not paid for it ! Bradley looked at him , as though he were claiming to be a Ghost . 
'The steamer , said Mr Riderhood , obstinately , 'run me down and drownded of me . 
Interference on the part of other parties brought me round but I never asked 'em to bring me round , nor yet the steamer never asked 'em to it . 
I mean to be paid for the life as the steamer took . 
'Was that your business at Mr Lightwood's chambers in the middle of the night ? asked Bradley , eyeing him with distrust . 
'That and to get a writing to be fust hand Lock Keeper . 
I have had trouble enough along of you and your friend . 
Bradley Headstone's face had changed during this latter recital , and he had observed the speaker with a more sustained attention . 
'I'm blest if it ain't , returned that gentleman . 
'But I don't know your'n . 
'That's quite another thing , said Bradley . 
'I never supposed you did . 
As Bradley walked on meditating , the Rogue walked on at his side muttering . 
The purport of the meditating was 'Here is an instrument . 
'How is it called ? 'Plashwater Weir Mill Lock . 
'Suppose I was to offer you five shillings what then ? 'Why , then , I'd take it , said Mr Riderhood . 
'There's one thing about you , T'otherest Governor , said Riderhood , faring on again , 'as looks well and goes fur . 
You're a ready money man . 
Now when he had carefully pocketed the coins on that side of himself which was furthest from his new friend 'what's this for ? 'For you . 
'Why , o' course I know THAT , said Riderhood , as arguing something that was self evident . 
'O' course I know very well as no man in his right senses would suppose as anythink would make me give it up agin when I'd once got it . 
But what do you want for it ? 'I don't know that I want anything for it . 
Or if I do want anything for it , I don't know what it is . 
Bradley gave this answer in a stolid , vacant , and self communing manner , which Mr Riderhood found very extraordinary . 
'You have no goodwill towards this Wrayburn , said Bradley , coming to the name in a reluctant and forced way , as if he were dragged to it . 
'Neither have I. Riderhood nodded , and asked 'Is it for that ? 'It's as much for that as anything else . 
It's something to be agreed with , on a subject that occupies so much of one's thoughts . 
'It don't agree with YOU , returned Mr Riderhood , bluntly . 
'No ! It don't , T'otherest Governor , and it's no use a lookin' as if you wanted to make out that it did . 
I tell you it rankles in you . 
It rankles in you , rusts in you , and pisons you . 
'Say that it does so , returned Bradley with quivering lips 'is there no cause for it ? 'Cause enough , I'll bet a pound ! cried Mr Riderhood . 
'Haven't you yourself declared that the fellow has heaped provocations , insults , and affronts on you , or something to that effect ? He has done the same by me . 
He is made of venomous insults and affronts , from the crown of his head to the sole of his foot . 
'If they did ! They will . 
Let me ask you a question . 
I know something more than your name about you I knew something about Gaffer Hexam . 
Not to speak to her . 
To see her anywhere ? The Rogue had got the clue he wanted , though he held it with a clumsy hand . 
'You know her well , by sight ? 'I should think I did ! No one better . 
'And you know him as well ? 'Who's him ? asked Riderhood , taking off his hat and rubbing his forehead , as he directed a dull look at his questioner . 
'I'd know HIM among a thousand . 
'I see 'em together , T'otherest Governor , on the very day when Gaffer was towed ashore . 
'You shall put it plain if you want it answered , thought the Rogue , doggedly 'I ain't a going a wolunteering . 
'Well ! was he insolent to her too ? asked Bradley after a struggle . 
'Or did he make a show of being kind to her ? 'He made a show of being most uncommon kind to her , said Riderhood . 
'By George ! now I His flying off at a tangent was indisputably natural . 
Bradley looked at him for the reason . 
, was a line's breadth beyond the mark the schoolmaster had reached . 
The baseness of communing and intriguing with the fellow who would have set that stain upon her , and upon her brother too , was attained . 
The line's breadth further , lay beyond . 
He made no reply , but walked on with a lowering face . 
What he might gain by this acquaintance , he could not work out in his slow and cumbrous thoughts . 
The man knew her , and might by a fortunate chance see her , or hear of her that was something , as enlisting one pair of eyes and ears the more . 
The man was a bad man , and willing enough to be in his pay . 
Suddenly he stood still , and asked Riderhood point blank if he knew where she was ? Clearly , he did not know . 
'It will not be long then , said Bradley Headstone , after some more discourse to this effect , 'before we see one another again . 
Here is the country road , and here is the day . 
Both have come upon me by surprise . 
'But , T'otherest Governor , urged Mr Riderhood , 'I don't know where to find you . 
'It is of no consequence . 
I know where to find you , and I'll come to your Lock . 
'But , T'otherest Governor , urged Mr Riderhood again , 'no luck never come yet of a dry acquaintance . 
Bradley then turned to retrace his steps , and by and by struck off through little traversed ways , and by and by reached school and home . 
He had been spurred and whipped and heavily sweated . 
In need of some brightening from without , was Mr Alfred Lammle , for he had the air of being dull enough within , and looked grievously discontented . 
Mrs Alfred Lammle faced her lord . 
The happy pair of swindlers , with the comfortable tie between them that each had swindled the other , sat moodily observant of the tablecloth . 
But this , indeed , most of the family tradespeople had already done , without the hint . 
'It seems to me , said Mrs Lammle , 'that you have had no money at all , ever since we have been married . 
'What seems to you , said Mr Lammle , 'to have been the case , may possibly have been the case . 
'You needn't take the trouble of swearing , said Mr Lammle to the skeleton 'once more , it doesn't matter . 
You never turned your annuity to so good an account . 
'Good an account ! In what way ? asked Mrs Lammle . 
'In the way of getting credit , and living well , said Mr Lammle . 
Perhaps the skeleton laughed scornfully on being intrusted with this question and this answer certainly Mrs Lammle did , and Mr Lammle did . 
'And what is to happen next ? asked Mrs Lammle of the skeleton . 
'Smash is to happen next , said Mr Lammle to the same authority . 
After this , Mrs Lammle looked disdainfully at the skeleton but without carrying the look on to Mr Lammle and drooped her eyes . 
After that , Mr Lammle did exactly the same thing , and drooped HIS eyes . 
A servant then entering with toast , the skeleton retired into the closet , and shut itself up . 
'Sophronia , said Mr Lammle , when the servant had withdrawn . 
And then , very much louder 'Sophronia ! 'Well ? 'Attend to me , if you please . 
He eyed her sternly until she did attend , and then went on . 
'I want to take counsel with you . 
Come , come no more trifling . 
You know our league and covenant . 
We are to work together for our joint interest , and you are as knowing a hand as I am . 
We shouldn't be together , if you were not . 
What's to be done ? We are hemmed into a corner . 
She was resuming , 'Have you nothing when he stopped her . 
We , we , we . 
'Have we nothing to sell ? 'Deuce a bit . 
I have given a Jew a bill of sale on this furniture , and he could take it to morrow , to day , now . 
He would have taken it before now , I believe , but for Fledgeby . 
'What has Fledgeby to do with him ? 'Knew him . 
Cautioned me against him before I got into his claws . 
Couldn't persuade him then , in behalf of somebody else . 
'Do you mean that Fledgeby has at all softened him towards you ? 'Us , Sophronia . 
Us , us , us . 
'Towards us ? 'I mean that the Jew has not yet done what he might have done , and that Fledgeby takes the credit of having got him to hold his hand . 
'Do you believe Fledgeby ? 'Sophronia , I never believe anybody . 
I never have , my dear , since I believed you . 
But it looks like it . 
'If we could have packed the brute off with Georgiana but however that's spilled milk . 
'If we could borrow money , Alfred 'Beg money , borrow money , or steal money . 
It would be all one to us , Sophronia , her husband struck in . 
Then , we could weather this ? 'No doubt . 
To offer another original and undeniable remark , Sophronia , two and two make four . 
'Of course I have repeatedly thought of the Boffins , Sophronia , he resumed , after a fruitless silence 'but I have seen my way to nothing . 
That infernal Secretary stands between them and people of merit . 
'If he could be got rid of ? said she , brightening a little , after more casting about . 
'Take time , Sophronia , observed her watchful husband , in a patronizing manner . 
'If working him out of the way could be presented in the light of a service to Mr Boffin ? 'Take time , Sophronia . 
'We have remarked lately , Alfred , that the old man is turning very suspicious and distrustful . 
'Miserly too , my dear which is far the most unpromising for us . 
Nevertheless , take time , Sophronia , take time . 
She took time and then said 'Suppose we should address ourselves to that tendency in him of which we have made ourselves quite sure . 
Suppose my conscience 'And we know what a conscience it is , my soul . 
Yes ? 'Suppose my conscience should not allow me to keep to myself any longer what that upstart girl told me of the Secretary's having made a declaration to her . 
Suppose my conscience should oblige me to repeat it to Mr Boffin . 
'I rather like that , said Lammle . 
'Suppose I so repeated it to Mr Boffin , as to insinuate that my sensitive delicacy and honour 'Very good words , Sophronia . 
Suppose I had imparted my virtuous uneasiness to my excellent husband , and he had said , in his integrity , Sophronia , you must immediately disclose this to Mr Boffin . 
'Once more , Sophronia , observed Lammle , changing the leg on which he stood , 'I rather like that . 
'You remark that he is well guarded , she pursued . 
But if this should lead to his discharging his Secretary , there would be a weak place made . 
'Go on expounding , Sophronia . 
I begin to like this very much . 
Whether it can be made much of , or little of , we must wait because we can't help it to see . 
Probably we shall make the most of it that is to be made . 
'Do you think it impossible , she asked , in the same cold plotting way , 'that you might replace the Secretary ? 'Not impossible , Sophronia . 
It might be brought about . 
At any rate it might be skilfully led up to . 
She nodded her understanding of the hint , as she looked at the fire . 
'Mr Lammle , she said , musingly not without a slight ironical touch 'Mr Lammle would be so delighted to do anything in his power . 
Mr Lammle , himself a man of business as well as a capitalist . 
Mr Lammle , accustomed to be intrusted with the most delicate affairs . 
Mr Lammle smiled , and even patted her on the head . 
He stood pondering , and she sat looking at the dusty fire without moving , for some time . 
'It appears to me , Sophronia , that you have omitted one branch of the subject . 
Perhaps not , for women understand women . 
We might oust the girl herself ? Mrs Lammle shook her head . 
'She has an immensely strong hold upon them both , Alfred . 
Not to be compared with that of a paid secretary . 
'But the dear child , said Lammle , with a crooked smile , 'ought to have been open with her benefactor and benefactress . 
The darling love ought to have reposed unbounded confidence in her benefactor and benefactress . 
Sophronia shook her head again . 
'Well ! Women understand women , said her husband , rather disappointed . 
It might be the making of our fortune to make a clean sweep of them both . 
With me to manage the property , and my wife to manage the people Whew ! Again shaking her head , she returned 'They will never quarrel with the girl . 
They will never punish the girl . 
We must accept the girl , rely upon it . 
'Well ! cried Lammle , shrugging his shoulders , 'so be it only always remember that we don't want her . 
'Now , the sole remaining question is , said Mrs Lammle , 'when shall I begin ? 'You cannot begin too soon , Sophronia . 
As I have told you , the condition of our affairs is desperate , and may be blown upon at any moment . 
'I must secure Mr Boffin alone , Alfred . 
If his wife was present , she would throw oil upon the waters . 
I know I should fail to move him to an angry outburst , if his wife was there . 
And as to the girl herself as I am going to betray her confidence , she is equally out of the question . 
'It wouldn't do to write for an appointment ? said Lammle . 
They would wonder among themselves why I wrote , and I want to have him wholly unprepared . 
'Call , and ask to see him alone ? suggested Lammle . 
'I would rather not do that either . 
, and I'll lie in wait for him . 
It was barely settled when a manly form was seen to pass the windows and heard to knock and ring . 
'Here's Fledgeby , said Lammle . 
'He admires you , and has a high opinion of you . 
Coax him to use his influence with the Jew . 
His name is Riah , of the House of Pubsey and Co . 
Dear Mr Fledgeby , do sit down . 
that nothing new had occurred in the way of whisker sprout since he came round the corner from the Albany . 
'Oh ! said Mr Fledgeby . 
'Yes , said Mrs Lammle . 
'I didn't know , remarked Mr Fledgeby , trying a new part of his chair , 'but that Lammle might be reserved about his affairs . 
'Not to me , said Mrs Lammle , with deep feeling . 
'Oh , indeed ? said Fledgeby . 
'Not to me , dear Mr Fledgeby . 
I I always understood so , said Mr Fledgeby . 
'Oh yes ! exclaimed Mrs Lammle , clasping her hands with a certain gushing wildness . 
But this Riah is a nasty one , Mrs Lammle he really is . 
'Not if YOU speak to him , dear Mr Fledgeby . 
'Upon my soul and body he is ! said Fledgeby . 
Try once more , dearest Mr Fledgeby . 
What is there you cannot do , if you will ! 'Thank you , said Fledgeby , 'you're very complimentary to say so . 
I don't mind trying him again , at your request . 
But of course I can't answer for the consequences . 
Riah is a tough subject , and when he says he'll do a thing , he'll do it . 
'Exactly so , cried Mrs Lammle , 'and when he says to you he'll wait , he'll wait . 
'O yes ! Here Mrs Lammle brought her handkerchief into play . 
Truly , truly , yes ! 'That makes all the difference , said Fledgeby . 
'I'll make a point of seeing Riah at once . 
'Blessings on you , dearest Mr Fledgeby ! 'Not at all , said Fledgeby . 
She gave him her hand . 
'It wasn't what I was going to say , returned Fledgeby , who never would , under any circumstances , accept a suggested expression , 'but you're very complimentary . 
They might have taken up their station in his breast , too , for he was blithe and merry . 
'Halloa ! said Fledgeby , falling back , with a wink . 
'You mean mischief , Jerusalem ! The old man raised his eyes inquiringly . 
'Yes you do , said Fledgeby . 
'You have been told that he might pull through it , if you didn't go in to win , Wide Awake have you ? said Fledgeby . 
'Do I go , sir ? he at length asked in a low voice . 
'Asks me if he is going ! exclaimed Fledgeby . 
'Yes , you do go . 
'Not his merit that he don't cheat me , was Mr Fledgeby's commentary delivered with a wink , 'but my precaution . 
He then with a lazy grandeur asserted his rights as lord of Pubsey and Co . 
As a blind in more senses than one , it reminded him that he was alone in the counting house with the front door open . 
He was moving away to shut it , lest he should be injudiciously identified with the establishment , when he was stopped by some one coming to the door . 
This some one was the dolls' dressmaker , with a little basket on her arm , and her crutch stick in her hand . 
'Hope I see you well , sir , said Miss Wren . 
'Mr Riah in ? Fledgeby had dropped into a chair , in the attitude of one waiting wearily . 
'I suppose he will be back soon , he replied 'he has cut out and left me expecting him back , in an odd way . 
Haven't I seen you before ? 'Once before if you had your eyesight , replied Miss Wren the conditional clause in an under tone . 
'When you were carrying on some games up at the top of the house . 
How's your friend ? 'I have more friends than one , sir , I hope , replied Miss Wren . 
'Which friend ? 'Never mind , said Mr Fledgeby , shutting up one eye , 'any of your friends , all your friends . 
Are they pretty tolerable ? Somewhat confounded , Miss Wren parried the pleasantry , and sat down in a corner behind the door , with her basket in her lap . 
I only want to buy my poor little two shillings' worth of waste . 
Perhaps you'll kindly let me have it , and I'll trot off to my work . 
'I let you have it ? said Fledgeby , turning his head towards her for he had been sitting blinking at the light , and feeling his cheek . 
'Why , you don't really suppose that I have anything to do with the place , or the business do you ? 'Suppose ? exclaimed Miss Wren . 
'He said , that day , you were the master ! 'The old cock in black said ? Riah said ? Why , he'd say anything . 
'Well but you said so too , returned Miss Wren . 
'Or at least you took on like the master , and didn't contradict him . 
'One of his dodges , said Mr Fledgeby , with a cool and contemptuous shrug . 
He said to me , Come up to the top of the house , sir , and I'll show you a handsome girl . 
But I shall call you the master . 
, and I was called the master . 
I dare say he don't . 
He loves a dodge for its own sake being , added Mr Fledgeby , after casting about for an expressive phrase , 'the dodgerest of all the dodgers . 
'Oh my head ! cried the dolls' dressmaker , holding it with both her hands , as if it were cracking . 
'You can't mean what you say . 
'I can , my little woman , retorted Fledgeby , 'and I do , I assure you . 
'He has got a bad name as an old Jew , and he is paid for the use of it , and I'll have my money's worth out of him . 
Presently there was a rustle and a tap , and then some more rustling and another tap . 
Fledgeby taking no notice , the door was at length softly opened , and the dried face of a mild little elderly gentleman looked in . 
'Mr Riah ? said this visitor , very politely . 
'I am waiting for him , sir , returned Mr Fledgeby . 
'He went out and left me here . 
I expect him back every minute . 
Perhaps you had better take a chair . 
The gentleman took a chair , and put his hand to his forehead , as if he were in a melancholy frame of mind . 
Mr Fledgeby eyed him aside , and seemed to relish his attitude . 
'A fine day , sir , remarked Fledgeby . 
The little dried gentleman was so occupied with his own depressed reflections that he did not notice the remark until the sound of Mr Fledgeby's voice had died out of the counting house . 
Then he started , and said 'I beg your pardon , sir . 
I fear you spoke to me ? 'I said , remarked Fledgeby , a little louder than before , 'it was a fine day . 
Again the little dried gentleman put his hand to his forehead , and again Mr Fledgeby seemed to enjoy his doing it . 
When the gentleman changed his attitude with a sigh , Fledgeby spake with a grin . 
'Mr Twemlow , I think ? The dried gentleman seemed much surprised . 
'Had the pleasure of dining with you at Lammle's , said Fledgeby . 
'Even have the honour of being a connexion of yours . 
An unexpected sort of place this to meet in but one never knows , when one gets into the City , what people one may knock up against . 
I hope you have your health , and are enjoying yourself . 
There might have been a touch of impertinence in the last words on the other hand , it might have been but the native grace of Mr Fledgeby's manner . 
Mr Fledgeby sat on a stool with a foot on the rail of another stool , and his hat on . 
Mr Twemlow had uncovered on looking in at the door , and remained so . 
Now the conscientious Twemlow , knowing what he had done to thwart the gracious Fledgeby , was particularly disconcerted by this encounter . 
He was as ill at ease as a gentleman well could be . 
He felt himself bound to conduct himself stiffly towards Fledgeby , and he made him a distant bow . 
Fledgeby made his small eyes smaller in taking special note of his manner . 
'He's a long time , muttered Mr Fledgeby , looking at his watch . 
'What time may you make it , Mr Twemlow ? Mr Twemlow made it ten minutes past twelve , sir . 
'As near as a toucher , assented Fledgeby . 
'I hope , Mr Twemlow , your business here may be of a more agreeable character than mine . 
'Thank you , sir , said Mr Twemlow . 
Fledgeby again made his small eyes smaller , as he glanced with great complacency at Twemlow , who was timorously tapping the table with a folded letter . 
'What I know of Mr Riah , said Fledgeby , with a very disparaging utterance of his name , 'leads me to believe that this is about the shop for disagreeable business . 
I have always found him the bitingest and tightest screw in London . 
Mr Twemlow acknowledged the remark with a little distant bow . 
It evidently made him nervous . 
'So much so , pursued Fledgeby , 'that if it wasn't to be true to a friend , nobody should catch me waiting here a single minute . 
But if you have friends in adversity , stand by them . 
That's what I say and act up to . 
The equitable Twemlow felt that this sentiment , irrespective of the utterer , demanded his cordial assent . 
'You are very right , sir , he rejoined with spirit . 
'You indicate the generous and manly course . 
'Glad to have your approbation , returned Fledgeby . 
She's a very taking and agreeable woman ? Conscience smote the gentle Twemlow pale . 
The chivalrous Twemlow , Knight of the Simple Heart , was not in a condition to offer any suggestion . 
He was too penitent , too remorseful . 
For the first time in his life he had done an underhanded action , and he had done wrong . 
He had secretly interposed against this confiding young man , for no better real reason than because the young man's ways were not his ways . 
But , the confiding young man proceeded to heap coals of fire on his sensitive head . 
'I beg your pardon , Mr Twemlow you see I am acquainted with the nature of the affairs that are transacted here . 
I really do not so much as clearly understand my position in the matter on which I am brought here . 
But there are reasons which make me very delicate of accepting your assistance . 
I am greatly , greatly , disinclined to profit by it . 
'It's not that , sir , returned Twemlow , 'it's not that . 
I hope I distinguish between true pride and false pride . 
'I have no pride at all , myself , said Fledgeby , 'and perhaps I don't cut things so fine as to know one from t'other . 
'You are very good , said Twemlow , faltering . 
You cultivate society and society cultivates you , but Mr Riah's not society . 
In society , Mr Riah is kept dark eh , Mr Twemlow ? Twemlow , much disturbed , and with his hand fluttering about his forehead , replied 'Quite true . 
The confiding young man besought him to state his case . 
Through which stalked the shadow of the awful Snigsworth , eyed afar off by money lenders as Security in the Mist , and menacing Twemlow with his baronial truncheon . 
To all , Mr Fledgeby listened with the modest gravity becoming a confiding young man who knew it all beforehand , and , when it was finished , seriously shook his head . 
'I don't like , Mr Twemlow , said Fledgeby , 'I don't like Riah's calling in the principal . 
If he's determined to call it in , it must come . 
'But supposing , sir , said Twemlow , downcast , 'that it can't come ? 'Then , retorted Fledgeby , 'you must go , you know . 
'Where ? asked Twemlow , faintly . 
'To prison , returned Fledgeby . 
Whereat Mr Twemlow leaned his innocent head upon his hand , and moaned a little moan of distress and disgrace . 
'However , said Fledgeby , appearing to pluck up his spirits , 'we'll hope it's not so bad as that comes to . 
You won't consider it a liberty ? 'I thank you again and again , sir , said Twemlow . 
'I am strong , strongly , disinclined to avail myself of your generosity , though my helplessness yields . 
For I cannot but feel that I to put it in the mildest form of speech that I have done nothing to deserve it . 
'Where CAN he be ? muttered Fledgeby , referring to his watch again . 
'What CAN he have gone out for ? Did you ever see him , Mr Twemlow ? 'Never . 
'He is a thorough Jew to look at , but he is a more thorough Jew to deal with . 
He's worst when he's quiet . 
If he's quiet , I shall take it as a very bad sign . 
Keep your eye upon him when he comes in , and , if he's quiet , don't be hopeful . 
Here he is ! He looks quiet . 
With these words , which had the effect of causing the harmless Twemlow painful agitation , Mr Fledgeby withdrew to his former post , and the old man entered the counting house . 
'Why , Mr Riah , said Fledgeby , 'I thought you were lost ! The old man , glancing at the stranger , stood stock still . 
He perceived that his master was leading up to the orders he was to take , and he waited to understand them . 
'I really thought , repeated Fledgeby slowly , 'that you were lost , Mr Riah . 
'You can't have rushed out to get the start of everybody else , and put in that bill of sale at Lammle's ? said Fledgeby . 
'Say you haven't , Mr Riah . 
'Sir , I have , replied the old man in a low voice . 
'Oh my eye ! cried Fledgeby . 
'Sir , said the old man , with great uneasiness , 'I do as I am directed . 
I am not the principal here . 
I am but the agent of a superior , and I have no choice , no power . 
'Don't say so , retorted Fledgeby , secretly exultant as the old man stretched out his hands , with a shrinking action of defending himself against the sharp construction of the two observers . 
'Don't play the tune of the trade , Mr Riah . 
You've a right to get in your debts , if you're determined to do it , but don't pretend what every one in your line regularly pretends . 
At least , don't do it to me . 
Why should you , Mr Riah ? You know I know all about you . 
The old man clasped the skirt of his long coat with his disengaged hand , and directed a wistful look at Fledgeby . 
'And don't , said Fledgeby , 'don't , I entreat you as a favour , Mr Riah , be so devilish meek , for I know what'll follow if you are . 
Look here , Mr Riah . 
This gentleman is Mr Twemlow . 
The Jew turned to him and bowed . 
That poor lamb bowed in return polite , and terrified . 
Now , Mr Riah , here is Mr Twemlow . 
Always good for his interest , always coming up to time , always paying his little way . 
If Mr Twemlow has a contempt for business , what can it matter to you ? 'But pardon me , interposed the gentle victim , 'I have not . 
I should consider it presumption . 
'There , Mr Riah ! said Fledgeby , 'isn't that handsomely said ? Come ! Make terms with me for Mr Twemlow . 
The old man looked again for any sign of permission to spare the poor little gentleman . 
No. Mr Fledgeby meant him to be racked . 
'I am very sorry , Mr Twemlow , said Riah . 
I am invested with no authority for diverging from them . 
The money must be paid . 
'In full and slap down , do you mean , Mr Riah ? asked Fledgeby , to make things quite explicit . 
'In full , sir , and at once , was Riah's answer . 
The old man lifted up his eyes once more to the little eyes in Mr Fledgeby's head , with some reviving hope that the sign might be coming yet . 
'Mr Riah , it's of no use my holding back the fact . 
There's a certain great party in the background in Mr Twemlow's case , and you know it . 
'I know it , the old man admitted . 
'Now , I'll put it as a plain point of business , Mr Riah . 
either to have that said great party's security , or that said great party's money ? 'Fully determined , answered Riah , as he read his master's face , and learnt the book . 
Poor Mr Twemlow , who had betrayed the keenest mental terrors since his noble kinsman loomed in the perspective , rose with a sigh to take his departure . 
'I thank you very much , sir , he said , offering Fledgeby his feverish hand . 
'You have done me an unmerited service . 
Thank you , thank you ! 'Don't mention it , answered Fledgeby . 
'It's a failure so far , but I'll stay behind , and take another touch at Mr Riah . 
'Do not deceive yourself Mr Twemlow , said the Jew , then addressing him directly for the first time . 
'There is no hope for you . 
You must expect no leniency here . 
You must pay in full , and you cannot pay too promptly , or you will be put to heavy charges . 
Trust nothing to me , sir . 
Money , money , money . 
When he turned round again with a composed countenance , his subordinate still stood in the same place , and the dolls' dressmaker sat behind the door with a look of horror . 
'Halloa ! cried Mr Fledgeby , 'you're forgetting this young lady , Mr Riah , and she has been waiting long enough too . 
Sell her her waste , please , and give her good measure if you can make up your mind to do the liberal thing for once . 
'There , my Cinderella dear , said the old man in a whisper , and with a worn out look , 'the basket's full now . 
Bless you ! And get you gone ! 'Don't call me your Cinderella dear , returned Miss Wren . 
'You are not the godmother at all ! said she . 
Another friendly demonstration towards him Mr Wegg now regularly gratified . 
After each sitting was over , and the patron had departed , Mr Wegg invariably saw Mr Venus home . 
Of the slightest anatomical reference he became particularly shy , and , if he saw a bone ahead , would go any distance out of his way rather than mention it by name . 
The adverse destinies ordained that one evening Mr Wegg's labouring bark became beset by polysyllables , and embarrassed among a perfect archipelago of hard words . 
It being necessary to take soundings every minute , and to feel the way with the greatest caution , Mr Wegg's attention was fully employed . 
Advantage was taken of this dilemma by Mr Venus , to pass a scrap of paper into Mr Boffin's hand , and lay his finger on his own lip . 
Responding , Mr Boffin was invited to seat himself on the box of human miscellanies before the fire , and did so , looking round the place with admiring eyes . 
The fire being low and fitful , and the dusk gloomy , the whole stock seemed to be winking and blinking with both eyes , as Mr Venus did . 
The big headed babies were equally obliging in lending their grotesque aid to the general effect . 
'You see , Mr Venus , I've lost no time , said Mr Boffin . 
'Here you are , sir , assented Mr Venus . 
'I don't like secrecy , pursued Mr Boffin 'at least , not in a general way I don't but I dare say you'll show me good reason for being secret so far . 
'I think I shall , sir , returned Venus . 
'Good , said Mr Boffin . 
'You don't expect Wegg , I take it for granted ? 'No , sir . 
I expect no one but the present company . 
Mr Boffin glanced about him , as accepting under that inclusive denomination the French gentleman and the circle in which he didn't move , and repeated , 'The present company . 
'Sir , said Mr Venus , 'before entering upon business , I shall have to ask you for your word and honour that we are in confidence . 
'Let's wait a bit and understand what the expression means , answered Mr Boffin . 
Well , sir , observed Venus , after clutching at his dusty hair , to brighten his ideas , 'let us put it another way . 
I open the business with you , relying upon your honour not to do anything in it , and not to mention me in it , without my knowledge . 
'That sounds fair , said Mr Boffin . 
I've sorted a lot of dust in my time , but I never knew the two things go into separate heaps . 
This remark seemed rather to abash Mr Venus . 
He hesitated , and said , 'Very true , sir and again , 'Very true , sir , before resuming the thread of his discourse . 
'That proposal , sir , was a conspiring breach of your confidence , to such an extent , that I ought at once to have made it known to you . 
But I didn't , Mr Boffin , and I fell into it . 
Without moving eye or finger , Mr Boffin gave another nod , and placidly repeated , 'Quite so , Venus . 
Placid and whimsical of look as ever , Mr Boffin answered 'Quite so , Venus . 
'And now , sir , said Venus , 'having prepared your mind in the rough , I will articulate the details . 
With which brief professional exordium , he entered on the history of the friendly move , and truly recounted it . 
'I have astonished you , sir , I believe ? said Mr Venus , pausing dubiously . 
Mr Boffin simply answered as aforesaid 'Quite so , Venus . 
By this time the astonishment was all on the other side . 
It did not , however , so continue . 
by being in a state of manifest anxiety , trepidation , and confusion . 
'Now , sir , said Venus , finishing off 'you best know what was in that Dutch bottle , and why you dug it up , and took it away . 
I don't pretend to know anything more about it than I saw . 
, and I mean to live by my calling . 
Putting the same meaning into other words , I do not mean to turn a single dishonest penny by this affair . 
As the best amends I can make you for having ever gone into it , I make known to you , as a warning , what Wegg has found out . 
Whether it's worth your while to silence him at any price , you will decide for yourself , and take your measures accordingly . 
As far as I am concerned , I have no price . 
If I am ever called upon for the truth , I tell it , but I want to do no more than I have now done and ended . 
Instead of his having half the money it was to have been half , I suppose ? Share and share alike ? 'It was to have been half , sir , answered Venus . 
'Instead of that , he'll now have all . 
I shall pay the same , if not more . 
For you tell me he's an unconscionable dog , a ravenous rascal . 
'He is , said Venus . 
'Not to make amends ? insinuated Mr Boffin . 
It seems to me , after maturely thinking it over , that the best amends for having got out of the square is to get back into the square . 
'Humph ! mused Mr Boffin . 
'When you say the square , you mean 'I mean , said Venus , stoutly and shortly , 'the right . 
'It appears to me , said Mr Boffin , grumbling over the fire in an injured manner , 'that the right is with me , if it's anywhere . 
I have much more right to the old man's money than the Crown can ever have . 
What was the Crown to him except the King's Taxes ? Whereas , me and my wife , we was all in all to him . 
Venus explained under what conditions , and with what views , the dropping down upon Mr Boffin was held over until the Mounds should be cleared away . 
'I suppose , said he , with a gleam of hope , 'there's no doubt about the genuineness and date of this confounded will ? 'None whatever , said Mr Venus . 
'Where might it be deposited at present ? asked Mr Boffin , in a wheedling tone . 
'It's in my possession , sir . 
'Is it ? he cried , with great eagerness . 
'Nor pass it over to me ? 'That would be the same thing . 
No , sir , said Mr Venus . 
The Golden Dustman seemed about to pursue these questions , when a stumping noise was heard outside , coming towards the door . 
'Hush ! here's Wegg ! said Venus . 
'Get behind the young alligator in the corner , Mr Boffin , and judge him for yourself . 
I won't light a candle till he's gone there'll only be the glow of the fire Wegg's well acquainted with the alligator , and he won't take particular notice of him . 
Draw your legs in , Mr Boffin , at present I see a pair of shoes at the end of his tail . 
Get your head well behind his smile , Mr Boffin , and you'll lie comfortable there you'll find plenty of room behind his smile . 
He's a little dusty , but he's very like you in tone . 
Are you right , sir ? Mr Boffin had but whispered an affirmative response , when Wegg came stumping in . 
'Partner , said that gentleman in a sprightly manner , 'how's yourself ? 'Tolerable , returned Mr Venus . 
'Not much to boast of . 
'In deed ! said Wegg 'sorry , partner , that you're not picking up faster , but your soul's too large for your body , sir that's where it is . 
And how's our stock in trade , partner ? Safe bind , safe find , partner ? Is that about it ? 'Do you wish to see it ? asked Venus . 
'If you please , partner , said Wegg , rubbing his hands . 
'I wish to see it jintly with yourself . 
Or , in similar words to some that was set to music some time back I wish you to see it with your eyes , And I will pledge with mine . 
Turning his back and turning a key , Mr Venus produced the document , holding on by his usual corner . 
Mr Wegg , holding on by the opposite corner , sat down on the seat so lately vacated by Mr Boffin , and looked it over . 
'There's nothing new , I suppose ? said Venus , resuming his low chair behind the counter . 
'Yes there is , sir , replied Wegg 'there was something new this morning . 
That foxey old grasper and griper 'Mr Boffin ? inquired Venus , with a glance towards the alligator's yard or two of smile . 
'Mister be blowed ! cried Wegg , yielding to his honest indignation . 
This is to authorize Sloppy to overlook the carting and to watch the work . 
That's pretty strong , I think , Mr Venus ? 'Remember he doesn't know yet of our claim on the property , suggested Venus . 
'Then he must have a hint of it , said Wegg , 'and a strong one that'll jog his terrors a bit . 
Give him an inch , and he'll take an ell . 
I can't contain myself when I look at him . 
Every time I see him putting his hand in his pocket , I see him putting it into my pocket . 
Every time I hear him jingling his money , I hear him taking liberties with my money . 
Flesh and blood can't bear it . 
No , said Mr Wegg , greatly exasperated , 'and I'll go further . 
Wasn't that my idea , Mr Venus ? 'It certainly was , Mr Wegg . 
'It certainly was , as you say , partner , assented Wegg , put into a better humour by the ready admission . 
I consider his planting one of his menial tools in the yard , an act of sneaking and sniffing . 
And his nose shall be put to the grindstone for it . 
'It was not your fault , Mr Wegg , I must admit , said Venus , 'that he got off with the Dutch bottle that night . 
'As you handsomely say again , partner ! No , it was not my fault . 
I'd have had that bottle out of him . 
, and carrying off treasure from its bowels ? No , it was not to be borne . 
And for that , too , his nose shall be put to the grindstone . 
'How do you propose to do it , Mr Wegg ? 'To put his nose to the grindstone ? I propose , returned that estimable man , 'to insult him openly . 
I'll put him in harness , and I'll bear him up tight , and I'll break him and drive him . 
The harder the old Dust is driven , sir , the higher he'll pay . 
And I mean to be paid high , Mr Venus , I promise you . 
'You speak quite revengefully , Mr Wegg . 
'But , said Wegg , possibly with some slight perception to the foregoing effect , 'your speaking countenance remarks , Mr Venus , that I'm duller and savager than usual . 
Perhaps I HAVE allowed myself to brood too much . 
Begone , dull Care ! 'Tis gone , sir . 
I've looked in upon you , and empire resumes her sway . 
For , as the song says subject to your correction , sir When the heart of a man is depressed with cares , The mist is dispelled if Venus appears . 
Like the notes of a fiddle , you sweetly , sir , sweetly , Raises our spirits and charms our ears . 
'I shall have a word or two to say to you , Mr Wegg , before long , remarked Venus , 'respecting my share in the project we've been speaking of . 
'My time , sir , returned Wegg , 'is yours . 
In the meanwhile let it be fully understood that I shall not neglect bringing the grindstone to bear , nor yet bringing Dusty Boffin's nose to it . 
His nose once brought to it , shall be held to it by these hands , Mr Venus , till the sparks flies out in showers . 
With this agreeable promise Wegg stumped out , and shut the shop door after him . 
'Wait till I light a candle , Mr Boffin , said Venus , 'and you'll come out more comfortable . 
'That's a treacherous fellow , said Mr Boffin , dusting his arms and legs as he came forth , the alligator having been but musty company . 
'The alligator , sir ? said Venus . 
'No , Venus , no . 
He'll drop down on me any way . 
He seems fully determined to drop down don't he ? Mr Venus opined that such was clearly his intention . 
'You might be a sort of protection for me , if you remained in it , said Mr Boffin 'you might stand betwixt him and me , and take the edge off him . 
'Everything is so at sixes and sevens . 
If I had never come into the property , I shouldn't have minded . 
'I am sure I don't know what to do , said Mr Boffin . 
If I was to take advice of my young man , Rokesmith , I should have to buy HIM out . 
Sooner or later , of course , he'd drop down upon me , like Wegg . 
I was brought into the world to be dropped down upon , it appears to me . 
Mr Venus listened to these lamentations in silence , while Mr Boffin jogged to and fro , holding his pockets as if he had a pain in them . 
'After all , you haven't said what you mean to do yourself , Venus . 
'And then he drops down with his whole weight upon ME ! cried Mr Boffin , ruefully . 
'How long could you be persuaded to keep up the appearance of remaining in it ? asked Mr Boffin , retiring on his other idea . 
'Could you be got to do so , till the Mounds are gone ? No. That would protract themental uneasiness of Mr Venus too long , he said . 
But he must add that he saw no opening to the possibility of such reason being shown him . 
'Come and see me , Venus , said Mr Boffin , 'at my house . 
'Is the reason there , sir ? asked Mr Venus , with an incredulous smile and blink . 
'It may be , or may not be , said Mr Boffin , 'just as you view it . 
But in the meantime don't go out of the matter . 
Give me your word that you won't take any steps with Wegg , without my knowledge , just as I have given you my word that I won't without yours . 
'Done , Mr Boffin ! said Venus , after brief consideration . 
'Thank'ee , Venus , thank'ee , Venus ! Done ! 'When shall I come to see you , Mr Boffin . 
I must be going now . 
'And good night to the rest of the present company , said Mr Boffin , glancing round the shop . 
'They make a queer show , Venus , and I should like to be better acquainted with them some day . 
Good night , Venus , good night ! Thankee , Venus , thankee , Venus ! With that he jogged out into the street , and jogged upon his homeward way . 
Possibly the wooden countenance of Mr Silas Wegg was incorporeally before him at those moments , for he hit with intense satisfaction . 
He was within a few streets of his own house , when a little private carriage , coming in the contrary direction , passed him , turned round , and passed him again . 
It was a little carriage of eccentric movement , for again he heard it stop behind him and turn round , and again he saw it pass him . 
Then it stopped , and then went on , out of sight . 
But , not far out of sight , for , when he came to the corner of his own street , there it stood again . 
There was a lady's face at the window as he came up with this carriage , and he was passing it when the lady softly called to him by his name . 
'I beg your pardon , Ma'am ? said Mr Boffin , coming to a stop . 
'It is Mrs Lammle , said the lady . 
Mr Boffin went up to the window , and hoped Mrs Lammle was well . 
'Not very well , dear Mr Boffin I have fluttered myself by being perhaps foolishly uneasy and anxious . 
I have been waiting for you some time . 
Can I speak to you ? Mr Boffin proposed that Mrs Lammle should drive on to his house , a few hundred yards further . 
'I would rather not , Mr Boffin , unless you particularly wish it . 
I feel the difficulty and delicacy of the matter so much that I would rather avoid speaking to you at your own home . 
You must think this very strange ? Mr Boffin said no , but meant yes . 
whether it is the cause of duty , and he has most emphatically said Yes . 
I wish I had asked him sooner . 
It would have spared me much distress . 
'It was Alfred who sent me to you , Mr Boffin . 
Alfred said , Don't come back , Sophronia , until you have seen Mr Boffin , and told him all . 
Whatever he may think of it , he ought certainly to know it . 
Would you mind coming into the carriage ? Mr Boffin answered , 'Not at all , and took his seat at Mrs Lammle's side . 
'Drive slowly anywhere , Mrs Lammle called to her coachman , 'and don't let the carriage rattle . 
'It MUST he more dropping down , I think , said Mr Boffin to himself . 
'What next ? Chapter THE GOLDEN DUSTMAN AT HIS WORST The breakfast table at Mr Boffin's was usually a very pleasant one , and was always presided over by Bella . 
It would have been easy to believe then , that there was no change in him . 
It was as the day went on that the clouds gathered , and the brightness of the mornmg became obscured . 
One might have said that the shadows of avarice and distrust lengthened as his own shadow lengthened , and that the night closed around him gradually . 
But , one morning long afterwards to be remembered , it was black midnight with the Golden Dustman when he first appeared . 
His altered character had never been so grossly marked . 
His bearing towards his Secretary was so charged with insolent distrust and arrogance , that the latter rose and left the table before breakfast was half done . 
This unlucky morning , of all mornings in the year , was the morning next after Mr Boffin's interview with Mrs Lammle in her little carriage . 
Bella looked to Mrs Boffin's face for comment on , or explanation of , this stormy humour in her husband , but none was there . 
An anxious and a distressed observation of her own face was all she could read in it . 
And still , whenever , in her wonder and dismay , she raised her eyes to Mrs Boffin's face , she saw in it the same anxious and distressed observation of her own . 
It was far on in the afternoon when , she being in her own room , a servant brought her a message from Mr Boffin begging her to come to his . 
Mrs Boffin was there , seated on a sofa , and Mr Boffin was jogging up and down . 
On seeing Bella he stopped , beckoned her to him , and drew her arm through his . 
'Don't be alarmed , my dear , he said , gently 'I am not angry with you . 
Why you actually tremble ! Don't be alarmed , Bella my dear . 
'See me righted ? thought Bella . 
And then repeated aloud in a tone of astonishment 'see me righted , sir ? 'Ay , ay ! said Mr Boffin . 
Send Mr Rokesmith here , you sir . 
Bella would have been lost in perplexity if there had been pause enough but the servant found Mr Rokesmith near at hand , and he almost immediately presented himself . 
'Shut the door , sir ! said Mr Boffin . 
'I have got something to say to you which I fancy you'll not be pleased to hear . 
'I am sorry to reply , Mr Boffin , returned the Secretary , as , having closed the door , he turned and faced him , 'that I think that very likely . 
'What do you mean ? blustered Mr Boffin . 
'I mean that it has become no novelty to me to hear from your lips what I would rather not hear . 
'Oh ! Perhaps we shall change that , said Mr Boffin with a threatening roll of his head . 
'I hope so , returned the Secretary . 
, on his manhood too . 
'Now , sir , said Mr Boffin , 'look at this young lady on my arm . 
Bella involuntarily raising her eyes , when this sudden reference was made to herself , met those of Mr Rokesmith . 
He was pale and seemed agitated . 
Then her eyes passed on to Mrs Boffin's , and she met the look again . 
In a flash it enlightened her , and she began to understand what she had done . 
'I say to you , sir , Mr Boffin repeated , 'look at this young lady on my arm . 
'I do so , returned the Secretary . 
As his glance rested again on Bella for a moment , she thought there was reproach in it . 
But it is possible that the reproach was within herself . 
'You decline to answer ? retorted Mr Boffin . 
'You decline to answer , do you ? Then I'll tell you what it is , Rokesmith I'll answer for you . 
There are two sides to this matter , and I'll take 'em separately . 
The first side is , sheer Insolence . 
The Secretary smiled with some bitterness , as though he would have said , 'So I see and hear . 
'It was sheer Insolence in you , I tell you , said Mr Boffin , 'even to think of this young lady . 
This young lady was far above YOU . 
This young lady was no match for YOU . 
for money , and you had no money . 
Bella hung her head and seemed to shrink a little from Mr Boffin's protecting arm . 
'Oh , Mr Boffin ! Mrs Boffin , pray say something for me ! murmured Bella , disengaging her arm , and covering her face with her hands . 
'Old lady , said Mr Boflin , anticipating his wife , 'you hold your tongue . 
Bella , my dear , don't you let yourself be put out . 
'But you don't , you don't right me ! exclaimed Bella , with great emphasis . 
'You wrong me , wrong me ! 'Don't you be put out , my dear , complacently retorted Mr Boffin . 
'I'll bring this young man to book . 
Now , you Rokesmith ! You can't decline to hear , you know , as well as to answer . 
You hear me tell you that the first side of your conduct was Insolence Insolence and Presumption . 
Answer me one thing , if you can . 
Didn't this young lady tell you so herself ? 'Did I , Mr Rokesmith ? asked Bella with her face still covered . 
'O say , Mr Rokesmith ! Did I ? 'Don't be distressed , Miss Wilfer it matters very little now . 
'Ah ! You can't deny it , though ! said Mr Boffin , with a knowing shake of his head . 
I tell you that's one side of your conduct Insolence and Presumption . 
Now , I'm a coming to the other , which is much worse . 
This was a speculation of yours . 
'It's of no use your denying it it doesn't signify a bit whether you deny it or not I've got a head upon my shoulders , and it ain't a baby's . 
What ! said Mr Boffin , gathering himself together in his most suspicious attitude , and wrinkling his face into a very map of curves and corners . 
I shall be told next that they didn't know human natur ! 'They ! Poor creatures , murmured the Secretary . 
'What do you say ? asked Mr Boffin , snapping at him . 
'However , you needn't be at the trouble of repeating it , for it ain't worth hearing , and won't go down with ME . 
Rokesmith , you're a needy chap . 
You're a chap that I pick up in the street . 
Are you , or ain't you ? 'Go on , Mr Boflin don't appeal to me . 
'Not appeal to YOU , retorted Mr Boffin as if he hadn't done so . 
'No , I should hope not ! Appealing to YOU , would be rather a rum course . 
As I was saying , you're a needy chap that I pick up in the street . 
You come and ask me in the street to take you for a Secretary , and I take you . 
'Very bad , murmured the Secretary . 
'What do you say ? asked Mr Boffin , snapping at him again . 
Mr Boffin , after eyeing him with a comical look of discomfited curiosity , was fain to begin afresh . 
'This Rokesmith is a needy young man that I take for my Secretary out of the open street . 
This Rokesmith gets acquainted with my affairs , and gets to know that I mean to settle a sum of money on this young lady . 
There he stands ! said Mr Boffin , addressing Rokesmith himself with ridiculous inconsistency . 
'Look at him ! 'Your unfortunate suspicions , Mr Boffin began the Secretary . 
'Precious unfortunate for you , I can tell you , said Mr Boffin . 
are not to be combated by any one , and I address myself to no such hopeless task . 
But I will say a word upon the truth . 
'Yah ! Much you care about the truth , said Mr Boffin , with a snap of his fingers . 
'Noddy ! My dear love ! expostulated his wife . 
'Old lady , returned Mr Boffin , 'you keep still . 
I say to this Rokesmith here , much he cares about the truth . 
I tell him again , much he cares about the truth . 
'Our connexion being at an end , Mr Boffin , said the Secretary , 'it can be of very little moment to me what you say . 
Look at this in my hand . 
This is your pay , on your discharge . 
You can only follow suit . 
You can't deprive me of the lead . 
Let's have no pretending that you discharge yourself . 
'So that I go , remarked the Secretary , waving the point aside with his hand , 'it is all one to me . 
'Is it ? said Mr Boffin . 
'But it's two to me , let me tell you . 
Allowing a fellow that's found out , to discharge himself , is one thing discharging him for insolence and presumption , and likewise for designs upon his master's money , is another . 
One and one's two not one . 
'Have you said all you wish to say to me ? demanded the Secretary . 
'I don't know whether I have or not , answered Mr Boffin . 
You want the last word . 
It may not be suitable to let you have it . 
'Noddy ! My dear , dear Noddy ! You sound so hard ! cried poor Mrs Boffin , not to be quite repressed . 
'Old lady , said her husband , but without harshness , 'if you cut in when requested not , I'll get a pillow and carry you out of the room upon it . 
What do you want to say , you Rokesmith ? 'To you , Mr Boffin , nothing . 
But to Miss Wilfer and to your good kind wife , a word . 
'Out with it then , replied Mr Boffin , 'and cut it short , for we've had enough of you . 
'I have borne , said the Secretary , in a low voice , 'with my false position here , that I might not be separated from Miss Wilfer . 
Since Miss Wilfer rejected me , I have never again urged my suit , to the best of my belief , with a spoken syllable or a look . 
But I have never changed in my devotion to her , except if she will forgive my saying so that it is deeper than it was , and better founded . 
'Now , mark this chap's saying Miss Wilfer , when he means L. s . 
! cried Mr Boffin , with a cunning wink . 
Let me go where I may when I presently leave this house , I shall go into a blank life , leaving her . 
behind me , said Mr Boffin , by way of commentary , with another wink . 
As to taking possession of my property , I warrant you he wouldn't do that himself if he could . 
'No , returned the Secretary , with another full look . 
'Ha , ha , ha ! laughed Mr Boffin . 
'There's nothing like a good 'un while you ARE about it . 
'I have been for a moment , said the Secretary , turning from him and falling into his former manner , 'diverted from the little I have to say . 
My interest in Miss Wilfer began when I first saw her even began when I had only heard of her . 
It was , in fact , the cause of my throwing myself in Mr Boffin's way , and entering his service . 
Miss Wilfer has never known this until now . 
of my being free from the sordid design attributed to me . 
'Now , this is a very artful dog , said Mr Boffin , with a deep look . 
'This is a longer headed schemer than I thought him . 
See how patiently and methodically he goes to work . 
'But luckily he hadn't to deal with the people he supposed , Bella , my dear ! said Mr Boffin . 
And he's beat that's what he is regularly beat . 
He thought to squeeze money out of us , and he has done for himself instead , Bella my dear ! Bella my dear made no response , gave no sign of acquiescence . 
When she had first covered her face she had sunk upon a chair with her hands resting on the back of it , and had never moved since . 
There was a short silence at this point , and Mrs Boffin softly rose as if to go to her . 
But , Mr Boffin stopped her with a gesture , and she obediently sat down again and stayed where she was . 
'There's your pay , Mister Rokesmith , said the Golden Dustman , jerking the folded scrap of paper he had in his hand , towards his late Secretary . 
'I dare say you can stoop to pick it up , after what you have stooped to here . 
'I have stooped to nothing but this , Rokesmith answered as he took it from the ground 'and this is mine , for I have earned it by the hardest of hard labour . 
'You're a pretty quick packer , I hope , said Mr Boffin 'because the sooner you are gone , bag and baggage , the better for all parties . 
'You need have no fear of my lingering . 
'Ask me anything you wish to ask , returned Rokesmith , 'but use the expedition that you recommend . 
'You pretend to have a mighty admiration for this young lady ? said Mr Boffin , laying his hand protectingly on Bella's head without looking down at her . 
You HAVE a mighty admiration for this young lady since you are so particular ? 'Yes . 
'What is due to this young lady , said Mr Boffin , 'is Money , and this young lady right well knows it . 
'You slander the young lady . 
'YOU slander the young lady you with your affections and hearts and trumpery , returned Mr Boffin . 
'It's of a piece with the rest of your behaviour . 
I heard of these doings of yours only last night , or you should have heard of 'em from me , sooner , take your oath of it . 
Don't give me money , Mr Boffin , I won't have money . 
Keep it away from me , and only let me speak to good little Pa , and lay my head upon his shoulder , and tell him all my griefs . 
Nobody else can understand me , nobody else can comfort me , nobody else knows how unworthy I am , and yet can love me like a little child . 
John Rokesmith from his place in the room , and Mr Boffin from his , looked on at her in silence until she was silent herself . 
Then Mr Boffin observed in a soothing and comfortable tone , 'There , my dear , there you are righted now , and it's ALL right . 
'You're a scolding , unjust , abusive , aggravating , bad old creature ! cried Bella . 
'I have heard you with shame , said Bella . 
'With shame for myself , and with shame for you . 
You ought to be above the base tale bearing of a time serving woman but you are above nothing now . 
Mr Boffin , seeming to become convinced that this was a fit , rolled his eyes and loosened his neckcloth . 
'When I came here , I respected you and honoured you , and I soon loved you , cried Bella . 
'And now I can't bear the sight of you . 
'The best wish I can wish you is , said Bella , returning to the charge , 'that you had not one single farthing in the world . 
'Mr Rokesmith , pray stay one moment . 
Pray hear one word from me before you go ! I am deeply sorry for the reproaches you have borne on my account . 
Out of the depths of my heart I earnestly and truly beg your pardon . 
As she stepped towards him , he met her . 
Mr Rokesmith , it is to me you owe this perverted account of what passed between us that night . 
I parted with the secret , even while I was angry with myself for doing so . 
It was very bad in me , but indeed it was not wicked . 
I did it in a moment of conceit and folly one of my many such moments one of my many such hours years . 
As I am punished for it severely , try to forgive it ! 'I do with all my soul . 
O thank you ! Don't part from me till I have said one other word , to do you justice . 
He kissed her hand again . 
'Mr Boffin's speeches were detestable to me , shocking to me , said Bella , startling that gentleman with another stamp of her little foot . 
Bella was hurrying back to the chair in which she had hidden her face so long , when , catching sight of Mrs Boffin by the way , she stopped at her . 
'He is gone , sobbed Bella indignantly , despairingly , in fifty ways at once , with her arms round Mrs Boffin's neck . 
'I must go home , said Bella , rising hurriedly . 
'I am very grateful to you for all you have done for me , but I can't stay here . 
'My darling girl ! remonstrated Mrs Boffin . 
'No , I can't stay here , said Bella 'I can't indeed . 
'Don't be rash , my love , urged Mrs Boffin . 
'Think well of what you do . 
'Yes , you had better think well , said Mr Boffin . 
'No ! Never again ! Your money has changed you to marble . 
You are a hard hearted Miser . 
You are worse than Dancer , worse than Hopkins , worse than Blackberry Jones , worse than any of the wretches . 
And more ! proceeded Bella , breaking into tears again , 'you were wholly undeserving of the Gentleman you have lost . 
'Why , you don't mean to say , Miss Bella , the Golden Dustman slowly remonstrated , 'that you set up Rokesmith against me ? 'I do ! said Bella . 
'He is worth a Million of you . 
, and utterly renounced her patron with a lofty toss of her rich brown head . 
There ! 'Well I'm sure ! cried Mr Boffin , staring . 
'Now , look here , said Mr Boffin , as soon as he could find an opening for breaking the silence and striking in . 
'Give me your attention , Bella . 
'I AM ! said Bella . 
'I say , resumed the Golden Dustman , 'I am not angry , and I mean kindly to you , and I want to overlook this . 
So you'll stay where you are , and we'll agree to say no more about it . 
'No , I can't stay here , cried Bella , rising hurriedly again 'I can't think of staying here . 
I must go home for good . 
'Now , don't be silly , Mr Boffin reasoned . 
'Don't do what you can't undo don't do what you're sure to be sorry for . 
'At least , Bella , argued Mr Boffin , 'let there be no mistake about it . 
Look before you leap , you know . 
Stay where you are , and all's well , and all's as it was to be . 
Go away , and you can never come back . 
'I know that I can never come back , and that's what I mean , said Bella . 
'You mustn't expect , Mr Boffin pursued , 'that I'm a going to settle money on you , if you leave us like this , because I am not . 
No , Bella ! Be careful ! Not one brass farthing . 
'Expect ! said Bella , haughtily . 
Down upon her knees before that good woman , she rocked herself upon her breast , and cried , and sobbed , and folded her in her arms with all her might . 
'You're a dear , a dear , the best of dears ! cried Bella . 
'You're the best of human creatures . 
I can never be thankful enough to you , and I can never forget you . 
She said that often enough , to be sure , for she said it over and over again but not one word else . 
Bella broke from her at length , and was going weeping out of the room , when in her own little queer affectionate way , she half relented towards Mr Boffin . 
'I am very glad , sobbed Bella , 'that I called you names , sir , because you richly deserved it . 
But I am very sorry that I called you names , because you used to be so different . 
Say good bye ! 'Good bye , said Mr Boffin , shortly . 
'If I knew which of your hands was the least spoilt , I would ask you to let me touch it , said Bella , 'for the last time . 
But not because I repent of what I have said to you . 
It's true ! 'Try the left hand , said Mr Boffin , holding it out in a stolid manner 'it's the least used . 
'You have been wonderfully good and kind to me , said Bella , 'and I kiss it for that . 
You have been as bad as bad could be to Mr Rokesmith , and I throw it away for that . 
Thank you for myself , and good bye ! 'Good bye , said Mr Boffin as before . 
Bella caught him round the neck and kissed him , and ran out for ever . 
She ran up stairs , and sat down on the floor in her own room , and cried abundantly . 
But the day was declining and she had no time to lose . 
'I won't take one of the others , said Bella , tying the knots of the bundle very tight , in the severity of her resolution . 
'I'll leave all the presents behind , and begin again entirely on my own account . 
That the resolution might be thoroughly carried into practice , she even changed the dress she wore , for that in which she had come to the grand mansion . 
Even the bonnet she put on , was the bonnet that had mounted into the Boffin chariot at Holloway . 
'Now , I am complete , said Bella . 
'It's a little trying , but I have steeped my eyes in cold water , and I won't cry any more . 
You have been a pleasant room to me , dear room . 
Adieu ! We shall never see each other again . 
No one chanced to be about , and she got down to the hall in quiet . 
The door of the late Secretary's room stood open . 
She peeped in as she passed , and divined from the emptiness of his table , and the general appearance of things , that he was already gone . 
'That was well done ! panted Bella , slackening in the next street , and subsiding into a walk . 
'If I had left myself any breath to cry with , I should have cried again . 
Now poor dear darling little Pa , you are going to see your lovely woman unexpectedly . 
Chapter THE FEAST OF THE THREE HOBGOBLINS The City looked unpromising enough , as Bella made her way along its gritty streets . 
Most of its money mills were slackening sail , or had left off grinding for the day . 
The master millers had already departed , and the journeymen were departing . 
There was a jaded aspect on the business lanes and courts , and the very pavements had a weary appearance , confused by the tread of a million of feet . 
There must be hours of night to temper down the day's distraction of so feverish a place . 
On approaching nearer , Bella discerned that the refection had the appearance of a small cottage loaf and a pennyworth of milk . 
'For it's after hours and I am all alone , my dear , he explained , 'and am having as I sometimes do when they are all gone a quiet tea . 
Looking round the office , as if her father were a captive and this his cell , Bella hugged him and choked him to her heart's content . 
'I never was so surprised , my dear ! said her father . 
'I couldn't believe my eyes . 
'Oh indeed ! But you have brought the elegant turn out , my love ? 'No , Pa . 
'You never can have walked , my dear ? 'Yes , I have , Pa . 
He looked so very much astonished , that Bella could not make up her mind to break it to him just yet . 
'The consequence is , Pa , that your lovely woman feels a little faint , and would very much like to share your tea . 
The cottage loaf and the pennyworth of milk had been set forth on a sheet of paper on the window seat . 
The cherubic pocket knife , with the first bit of the loaf still on its point , lay beside them where it had been hastily thrown down . 
Bella took the bit off , and put it in her mouth . 
'My dear child , said her father , 'the idea of your partaking of such lowly fare ! But at least you must have your own loaf and your own penn'orth . 
One moment , my dear . 
The Dairy is just over the way and round the corner . 
Regardless of Bella's dissuasions he ran out , and quickly returned with the new supply . 
Don't you remember it ? 'Why , I THOUGHT I remembered it , my dear ! 'You should , for you bought it , Pa . 
'Yes , I THOUGHT I bought it my dear ! said the cherub , giving himself a little shake , as if to rouse his faculties . 
Yes to the first question , and Certainly Not to the second . 
, between the day , and domestic 'Bliss , suggested Bella , sorrowfully . 
'And domestic Bliss , said her father , quite contented to accept the phrase . 
'Whose Perch ? asked Bella with great indignation . 
You see , being rather high and up two steps they call it a Perch . 
And they call ME Rumty . 
'How dare they ! exclaimed Bella . 
'They're playful , Bella my dear they're playful . 
They're more or less younger than I am , and they're playful . 
What does it matter ? It might be Surly , or Sulky , or fifty disagreeable things that I really shouldn't like to be considered . 
'My gracious me ! he exclaimed , invoking the Mincing Lane echoes as before . 
'This is very extraordinary ! 'What is , Pa ? 'Why here's Mr Rokesmith now ! 'No , no , Pa , no , cried Bella , greatly flurried . 
'Yes there is ! Look here ! Sooth to say , Mr Rokesmith not only passed the window , but came into the counting house . 
'But we must think of dear Pa , said Bella 'I haven't told dear Pa let us speak to Pa . 
Upon which they turned to do so . 
'I wish first , my dear , remarked the cherub faintly , 'that you'd have the kindness to sprinkle me with a little milk , for I feel as if I was Going . 
In fact , the good little fellow had become alarmingly limp , and his senses seemed to be rapidly escaping , from the knees upward . 
Bella sprinkled him with kisses instead of milk , but gave him a little of that article to drink and he gradually revived under her caressing care . 
'We'll break it to you gently , dearest Pa , said Bella . 
'I allow you , and my will is his law . 
What he did was , once more to give her the appearance of vanishing as aforesaid . 
John Rokesmith mentioned , a while ago , that he had no present occupation . 
'No , Pa , none , said Bella . 
'From which I argue , proceeded the cherub , 'that he has left Mr Boffin ? 'Yes , Pa . 
And so 'Stop a bit , my dear . 
I wish to lead up to it by degrees . 
And that Mr Boffin has not treated him well ? 'Has treated him most shamefully , dear Pa ! cried Bella with a flashing face . 
Have I led up to it ? Bella's hand was round his neck by this time , and her face was on it . 
I love this young person dearly . 
But , not for long . 
'To think , said the cherub , looking round the office with unspeakable enjoyment , 'that anything of a tender nature should come off here , is what tickles me . 
'And your sister Lavvy , for instance , my dear ? 'Yes , Pa . 
I think we had better not enter into particulars at home . 
I think it will be quite enough to say that I had a difference with Mr Boffin , and have left for good . 
'A little , patient Pa ? said Bella with a tuneful laugh the tunefuller for being so loving in its tone . 
'Well ! We'll say , strictly in confidence among ourselves , wearing we won't qualify it , the cherub stoutly admitted . 
'And your sister's temper is wearing . 
'I don't mind , Pa . 
'I don't mind , Pa . 
I could bear much harder trials for John . 
The closing words were not so softly and blushingly said but that John heard them , and showed that he heard them by again assisting Bella to another of those mysterious disappearances . 
But first Bella mounted upon Rumty's Perch , and said , 'Show me what you do here all day long , dear Pa . 
Do you write like this ? laying her round cheek upon her plump left arm , and losing sight of her pen in waves of hair , in a highly unbusiness like manner . 
Though John Rokesmith seemed to like it . 
Which he did , cherubically strewing the path with smiles , in the absence of flowers . 
'I think , John , the cherub hinted at last , 'that if you can spare me the young person distantly related to myself , I'll take her in . 
'I can't spare her , answered John , 'but I must lend her to you . 
My Darling ! A word of magic which caused Bella instantly to disappear again . 
'Why , it's never Bella ! exclaimed Miss Lavvy starting back at the sight . 
And then bawled , 'Ma ! Here's Bella ! This produced , before they could get into the house , Mrs Wilfer . 
Who , standing in the portal , received them with ghostly gloom , and all her other appliances of ceremony . 
'My child is welcome , though unlooked for , said she , at the time presenting her cheek as if it were a cool slate for visitors to enrol themselves upon . 
'You too , R. W. , are welcome , though late . 
Does the male domestic of Mrs Boffin hear me there ? This deep toned inquiry was cast forth into the night , for response from the menial in question . 
'There is no one waiting , Ma , dear , said Bella . 
'There is no one waiting ? repeated MrsWilfer in majestic accents . 
'No , Ma , dear . 
Cold neck of mutton and a lettuce can ill compete with the luxuries of Mr Boffin's board . 
'Pray don't talk like that , Ma dear , said Bella 'Mr Boffin's board is nothing to me . 
But , here Miss Lavinia , who had been intently eyeing Bella's bonnet , struck in with 'Why , Bella ! 'Yes , Lavvy , I know . 
The Irrepressible lowered her eyes to Bella's dress , and stooped to look at it , exclaiming again 'Why , Bella ! 'Yes , Lavvy , I know what I have got on . 
I was going to tell Ma when you interrupted . 
I have left Mr Boffin's house for good , Ma , and I have come home again . 
'And I am bound to tell you , my dear , added R. W. , submissively , 'that Bella has acted in a truly brave spirit , and with a truly right feeling . 
And therefore I hope , my dear , you'll not allow yourself to be greatly disappointed . 
With admirable seamanship he got his bark into deep water by murmuring 'Yes indeed . 
But nothing will induce me to quarrel with any one to night . 
But no word issued from the majestic matron's lips . 
than any flow of eloquence with which she could have edified the company . 
'Now , Ma dear , said Bella in due course , 'the salad's ready , and it's past supper time . 
Mrs Wilfer rose , but remained speechless . 
Miss Lavinia was extremely affable to Mr Sampson on this special occasion , and took the opportunity of informing her sister why . 
Bella was glad to hear it . 
'George is getting on very well , said Miss Lavinia which might not have been supposed at the moment 'and I dare say we shall be married , one of these days . 
'Thank you , Lavvy dear . 
'That was a mistake , dear Lavvy , said Bella . 
'It turns out to be , replied Miss Lavinia 'but circumstances have changed , you know , my dear . 
George is in a new situation , and his prospects are very good indeed . 
I shouldn't have had the courage to tell you so yesterday , when you would have thought his prospects poor , and not worth notice but I feel quite bold tonight . 
'When did you begin to feel timid , Lavvy ? inquired Bella , with a smile . 
'I didn't say that I ever felt timid , Bella , replied the Irrepressible . 
'Ma , pray don't sit staring at me in that intensely aggravating manner ! If you see a black on my nose , tell me so if you don't , leave me alone . 
'Do you address Me in those words ? said Mrs Wilfer . 
'Do you presume ? 'Don't talk about presuming , Ma , for goodness' sake . 
A girl who is old enough to be engaged , is quite old enough to object to be stared at as if she was a Clock . 
'Audacious one ! said Mrs Wilfer . 
'Your grandmamma , if so addressed by one of her daughters , at any age , would have insisted on her retiring to a dark apartment . 
'My grandmamma , returned Lavvy , folding her arms and leaning back in her chair , 'wouldn't have sat staring people out of countenance , I think . 
'She would ! said Mrs Wilfer . 
'Then it's a pity she didn't know better , said Lavvy . 
'And if my grandmamma wasn't in her dotage when she took to insisting on people's retiring to dark apartments , she ought to have been . 
'I command silence ! 'I have not the slightest intention of being silent , Ma , returned Lavinia coolly , 'but quite the contrary . 
I am not going to be eyed as if I had come from the Boffins , and sit silent under it . 
I am not going to have George Sampson eyed as if HE had come from the Boffins , and sit silent under it . 
If Pa thinks proper to be eyed as if HE had come from the Boffins also , well and good . 
And I won't ! Lavinia's engineering having made this crooked opening at Bella , Mrs Wilfer strode into it . 
'You rebellious spirit ! You mutinous child ! Tell me this , Lavinia . 
'How ! exclaimed Mrs Wilfer , with sublime severity . 
'Halls of slavery , Ma , is mere stuff and nonsense , returned the unmoved Irrepressible . 
I have had a tiring day , and I'll go to bed . 
This broke up the agreeable party . 
But , a light footstep roused him from his meditations , and it was Bella's . 
Her pretty hair was hanging all about her , and she had tripped down softly , brush in hand , and barefoot , to say good night to him . 
'My dear , you most unquestionably ARE a lovely woman , said the cherub , taking up a tress in his hand . 
'Look here , sir , said Bella 'when your lovely woman marries , you shall have that piece if you like , and she'll make you a chain of it . 
Would you prize that remembrance of the dear creature ? 'Yes , my precious . 
'Then you shall have it if you're good , sir . 
I am very , very sorry , dearest Pa , to have brought home all this trouble . 
'My pet , returned her father , in the simplest good faith , 'don't make yourself uneasy about that . 
It really is not worth mentioning , because things at home would have taken pretty much the same turn any way . 
If your mother and sister don't find one subject to get at times a little wearing on , they find another . 
We're never out of a wearing subject , my dear , I assure you . 
I am afraid you find your old room with Lavvy , dreadfully inconvenient , Bella ? 'No I don't , Pa I don't mind . 
Why don't I mind , do you think , Pa ? 'Well , my child , you used to complain of it when it wasn't such a contrast as it must be now . 
Upon my word , I can only answer , because you are so much improved . 
'Listen , sir , said Bella . 
'Your lovely woman was told her fortune to night on her way home . 
But that's at first , and even if it should never be more , the lovely woman will make it quite enough . 
But that's not all , sir . 
Tell me the name of that man , sir . 
'Is he a Knave in the pack of cards ? inquired the cherub , with a twinkle in his eyes . 
'Yes ! cried Bella , in high glee , choking him again . 
'There's a dear Knave of Wilfers ! exclaimed Bella then putting out her small white bare foot , 'That's the mark , sir . 
Put your boot against it . 
We keep to it together , mind ! Now , sir , you may kiss the lovely woman before she runs away , so thankful and so happy . 
, 'by auction , under a bill of sale , is publicly announced on a waving hearthrug in Sackville Street . 
Mrs Veneering , W. M. P. for Pocket Breaches , like a faithful wife shares her husband's discovery and inexpressible astonishment . 
For , it is by this time noticeable that , whatever befals , the Veneerings must give a dinner upon it . 
Lady Tippins lives in a chronic state of invitation to dine with the Veneerings , and in a chronic state of inflammation arising from the dinners . 
Boots and Brewer go about in cabs , with no other intelligible business on earth than to beat up people to come and dine with the Veneerings . 
Veneering pervades the legislative lobbies , intent upon entrapping his fellow legislators to dinner . 
, but to dine with one another . 
Perhaps , after all , who knows ? Veneering may find this dining , though expensive , remunerative , in the sense that it makes champions . 
, that the same 'will be found highly salutary as a precautionary measure in connection with the pleasures of the table . 
'A lady ! says Twemlow , pluming his ruffled feathers . 
'Ask the favour of the lady's name . 
The lady's name is Lammle . 
The lady will not detain Mr Twemlow longer than a very few minutes . 
The lady is sure that Mr Twemlow will do her the kindness to see her , on being told that she particularly desires a short interview . 
The lady has no doubt whatever of Mr Twemlow's compliance when he hears her name . 
Has begged the servant to be particular not to mistake her name . 
Would have sent in a card , but has none . 
Lady shown in , comes in . 
'Pray take a seat , Mrs Lammle . 
Mrs Lammle takes a seat and opens the conversation . 
'I have no doubt , Mr Twemlow , that you have heard of a reverse of fortune having befallen us . 
Of course you have heard of it , for no kind of news travels so fast among one's friends especially . 
Mindful of the wondering dinner , Twemlow , with a little twinge , admits the imputation . 
I have taken the liberty of calling upon you , Mr Twemlow , to add a sort of postscript to what I said that day . 
Mr Twemlow's dry and hollow cheeks become more dry and hollow at the prospect of some new complication . 
'Really , says the uneasy little gentleman , 'really , Mrs Lammle , I should take it as a favour if you could excuse me from any further confidence . 
It has ever been one of the objects of my life which , unfortunately , has not had many objects to be inoffensive , and to keep out of cabals and interferences . 
Mrs Lammle , by far the more observant of the two , scarcely finds it necessary to look at Twemlow while he speaks , so easily does she read him . 
So far from troubling you with any new confidence , I merely wish to remind you what the old one was . 
So far from asking you for interference , I merely wish to claim your strict neutrality . 
Twemlow going on to reply , she rests her eyes again , knowing her ears to be quite enough for the contents of so weak a vessel . 
'I can , I suppose , says Twemlow , nervously , 'offer no reasonable objection to hearing anything that you do me the honour to wish to say to me under those heads . 
But if I may , with all possible delicacy and politeness , entreat you not to range beyond them , I I beg to do so . 
'Which I did , says Twemlow . 
I was a poor little fool once myself I can find no better reason . 
Seeing the effect she produces on him by her indifferent laugh and cold look , she keeps her eyes upon him as she proceeds . 
This is what I came to say . 
It is not a stipulation to a gentleman it is simply a reminder . 
Twemlow sits murmuring to himself with his hand to his forehead . 
and you , that I will not waste another word upon it . 
'I trust I have kept the promise I made through your servant , that I would detain you a very few minutes . 
I need trouble you no longer , Mr Twemlow . 
'Stay ! says Twemlow , rising as she rises . 
'Then he told you ? retorts Mrs Lammle , who again has saved her eyes while listening , and uses them with strong effect while speaking . 
'It is strange that he should have told you the truth , says Mrs Lammle , seriously pondering . 
'Pray where did a circumstance so very extraordinary happen ? Twemlow hesitates . 
I must admit that I could not regard myself in an agreeable light . 
It is a part of the true nobility of the poor gentleman's soul to say this last sentence . 
'Otherwise , he has reffected , 'I shall assume the superior position of having no difficulties of my own , while I know of hers . 
Which would be mean , very mean . 
'Was Mr Fledgeby's advocacy as effectual in your case as in ours ? Mrs Lammle demands . 
'Can you make up your mind to tell me where you saw Mr Fledgeby , Mr Twemlow ? 'I beg your pardon . 
I fully intended to have done so . 
The reservation was not intentional . 
I encountered Mr Fledgeby , quite by accident , on the spot . 
By the expression , on the spot , I mean at Mr Riah's in Saint Mary Axe . 
, has fallen into Mr Riah's hands . 
'Mr Twemlow , says Mrs Lammle , fixing his eyes with hers which he would prevent her doing if he could , but he can't 'it has fallen into Mr Fledgeby's hands . 
Mr Riah is his mask . 
It has fallen into Mr Fledgeby's hands . 
Let me tell you that , for your guidance . 
The information may be of use to you , if only to prevent your credulity , in judging another man's truthfulness by your own , from being imposed upon . 
'Impossible ! cries Twemlow , standing aghast . 
'How do you know it ? 'I scarcely know how I know it . 
The whole train of circumstances seemed to take fire at once , and show it to me . 
'Oh ! Then you have no proof . 
Yet my husband replies to me You have no proof , and Mr Twemlow replies to me with the very same words ! 'But why , madam ? Twemlow ventures gently to argue . 
'Consider why the very same words ? Because they state the fact . 
Because you HAVE no proof . 
'Men are very wise in their way , quoth Mrs Lammle , glancing haughtily at the Snigsworth portrait , and shaking out her dress before departing 'but they have wisdom to learn . 
until my husband does see it . 
And you will do well for yourself to see it from this time forth , Mr Twemlow , though I CAN give you no proof . 
As she moves towards the door , Mr Twemlow , attending on her , expresses his soothing hope that the condition of Mr Lammle's affairs is not irretrievable . 
'I don't know , Mrs Lammle answers , stopping , and sketching out the pattern of the paper on the wall with the point of her parasol 'it depends . 
There may be an opening for him dawning now , or there may be none . 
We shall soon find out . 
If none , we are bankrupt here , and must go abroad , I suppose . 
Mr Twemlow , in his good natured desire to make the best of it , remarks that there are pleasant lives abroad . 
, to have one always beside him who is attached to him in all his fortunes , and whose restraining influence will prevent him from courses that would be discreditable and ruinous . 
As he says it , Mrs Lammle leaves off sketching , and looks at him . 
'Restraining influence , Mr Twemlow ? We must eat and drink , and dress , and have a roof over our heads . 
With those words , she walks out into Duke Street , Saint James's . 
And seven o'clock in the evening finds him trotting out into Duke Street , to trot to the corner and save a sixpence in coach hire . 
Such a mind has Mr Eugene Wrayburn , whom Twemlow finds contemplating Tippins with the moodiest of visages , while that playful creature rallies him on being so long overdue at the woolsack . 
A new race of intimate friends has sprung up at Veneering's since he went into Parliament for the public good , to whom Mrs Veneering is very attentive . 
These friends , like astronomical distances , are only to be spoken of in the very largest figures . 
gives employment , directly and indirectly , to five hundred thousand men . 
Mr and Mrs Podsnap are of the company , and the Fathers descry in Mrs Podsnap a fine woman . 
, to entreat to be told something about those loves of Navvies , and whether they really do live on raw beefsteaks , and drink porter out of their barrows . 
But , in spite of such little skirmishes it is felt that this was to be a wondering dinner , and that the wondering must not be neglected . 
Accordingly , Brewer , as the man who has the greatest reputation to sustain , becomes the interpreter of the general instinct . 
'I took , says Brewer in a favourable pause , 'a cab this morning , and I rattled off to that Sale . 
says , 'So did I. Buffer says , 'So did I' but can find nobody to care whether he did or not . 
'And what was it like ? inquires Veneering . 
Handsome things enough , but fetching nothing . 
'So I heard this afternoon , says Lightwood . 
'But how , says Veneering , 'CAN people do that ! Hah ! That is felt on all hands to be a shot in the bull's eye . 
Eugene suggests that Mrs Lammle , not being a mother , had no baby to look at . 
'True , says Mrs Veneering , 'but the principle is the same . 
Boots is clear that the principle is the same . 
It is the unfortunate destiny of Buffer to damage a cause by espousing it . 
'Then I don't understand , pursues the Father , 'how even their living beyond their means could bring them to what has been termed a total smash . 
Because , there is always such a thing as an adjustment of affairs , in the case of people of any standing at all . 
, suggests , 'Suppose you have no means and live beyond them ? This is too insolvent a state of things for the Father to entertain . 
It is too insolvent a state of things for any one with any self respect to entertain , and is universally scouted . 
But , it is so amazing how any people can have come to a total smash , that everybody feels bound to account for it specially . 
One of the Fathers says , 'Gaming table . 
Another of the Fathers says , 'Speculated without knowing that speculation is a science . 
Lady Tippins says to her fan , 'Two establishments . 
Mr Podsnap , saying nothing , is referred to for his opinion which he delivers as follows much flushed and extremely angry 'Don't ask me . 
I desire to take no part in the discussion of these people's affairs . 
What is written on it in wet ink , is 'Young Blight . 
'Waiting ? says Eugene over his shoulder , in confidence , with the Analytical . 
'Waiting , returns the Analytical in responsive confidence . 
Eugene looks 'Excuse me , towards Mrs Veneering , goes out , and finds Young Blight , Mortimer's clerk , at the hall door . 
Where is he ? asks Eugene . 
'He's in a cab , sir , at the door . 
'Sharp boy again , returns Eugene . 
'Give him a ride back to Charing Cross , sharp boy , and there get rid of him . 
So I'll be a benefactor to society , and go . 
A stroll and a cigar , and I can think this over . 
Thus , with a thoughtful face , he finds his hat and cloak , unseen of the Analytical , and goes his way . 
BOOK THE FOURTH A TURNING Chapter SETTING TRAPS Plashwater Weir Mill Lock looked tranquil and pretty on an evening in the summer time . 
A soft air stirred the leaves of the fresh green trees , and passed like a smooth shadow over the river , and like a smoother shadow over the yielding grass . 
In one of these starts the cry of 'Lock , ho ! Lock ! prevented his relapse into a doze . 
Riderhood observed that the bargeman rose too , leaning on his arm , and seemed to have his eyes fastened on the rising figure . 
But , there was the toll to be taken , as the gates were now complaining and opening . 
The T'other governor tossed it ashore , twisted in a piece of paper , and as he did so , knew his man . 
'Ay , ay ? It's you , is it , honest friend ? said Eugene , seating himself preparatory to resuming his sculls . 
'You got the place , then ? 'I got the place , and no thanks to you for it , nor yet none to Lawyer Lightwood , gruffly answered Riderhood . 
'We saved our recommendation , honest fellow , said Eugene , 'for the next candidate the one who will offer himself when you are transported or hanged . 
It being then too late to retort with any effect if that could ever have been done the honest man confined himself to cursing and growling in a grim under tone . 
Having then got his gates shut , he crossed back by his plank lock bridge to the towing path side of the river . 
If , in so doing , he took another glance at the bargeman , he did it by stealth . 
'Plashwater Weir Mill Lock , T'otherest gov er nor or or or ! cried Mr Riderhood , with his hands to his mouth . 
Approaching nearer and nearer , the bargeman became Bradley Headstone , in rough water side second hand clothing . 
He must have committed it to memory , and slowly got it by heart . 
It was exactly reproduced in the dress he now wore . 
'THIS your Lock ? said Bradley , whose surprise had a genuine air 'they told me , where I last inquired , it was the third I should come to . 
This is only the second . 
'It's my belief , governor , returned Riderhood , with a wink and shake of his head , 'that you've dropped one in your counting . 
It ain't Locks as YOU'VE been giving your mind to . 
'It ain't Locks as YOU'VE been a reckoning up , said Riderhood , when the schoolmaster's eyes came back again . 
'No , no ! 'What other calculations do you suppose I have been occupied with ? Mathematics ? 'I never heerd it called that . 
It's a long word for it . 
Hows'ever , p'raps you call it so , said Riderhood , stubbornly chewing his grass . 
What ? 'I'll say them , instead of it , if you like , was the coolly growled reply . 
'What do you mean that I should understand by them ? 'Spites , affronts , offences giv' and took , deadly aggrawations , such like , answered Riderhood . 
'Ha ha ! Don't be afeerd , T'otherest , said Riderhood . 
'The T'other's got to make way agin the stream , and he takes it easy . 
You can soon come up with him . 
'You think I have been following him ? said Bradley . 
'I KNOW you have , said Riderhood . 
'Well ! I have , I have , Bradley admitted . 
'But , with another anxious look up the river , 'he may land . 
'Easy you ! He won't be lost if he does land , said Riderhood . 
'He must leave his boat behind him . 
He can't make a bundle or a parcel on it , and carry it ashore with him under his arm . 
'He was speaking to you just now , said Bradley , kneeling on one knee on the grass beside the Lock keeper . 
'What did he say ? 'Cheek , said Riderhood . 
'What ? 'Cheek , repeated Riderhood , with an angry oath 'cheek is what he said . 
He can't say nothing but cheek . 
I'd ha' liked to plump down aboard of him , neck and crop , with a heavy jump , and sunk him . 
Bradley turned away his haggard face for a few moments , and then said , tearing up a tuft of grass 'Damn him ! 'Hooroar ! cried Riderhood . 
'Does you credit ! Hooroar ! I cry chorus to the T'otherest . 
'Let him look to that , cried Bradley . 
'Let him look to that ! It will be bad for him when men he has injured , and at whom he has jeered , are thinking of getting hanged . 
Let HIM get ready for HIS fate , when that comes about . 
There was more meaning in what he said than he knew of , or he wouldn't have had brains enough to say it . 
Riderhood , looking fixedly at him , gradually arose from his recumbent posture while the schoolmaster said these words with the utmost concentration of rage and hatred . 
So , when the words were all spoken , he too kneeled on one knee on the grass , and the two men looked at one another . 
'Oh ! said Riderhood , very deliberately spitting out the grass he had been chewing . 
'Then , I make out , T'otherest , as he is a going to her ? 'He left London , answered Bradley , 'yesterday . 
I have hardly a doubt , this time , that at last he is going to her . 
It has told upon you . 
'Listen , said Bradley , in a low voice , bending forward to lay his hand upon the Lock keeper's shoulder . 
'Are they , by George ! muttered Riderhood , with his eyes on the passion wasted face . 
'Your working days must be stiff 'uns , if these is your holidays . 
'And I have never left him , pursued Bradley , waving the interruption aside with an impatient hand , 'since they began . 
And I never will leave him now , till I have seen him with her . 
'And when you have seen him with her ? said Riderhood . 
I'll come back to you . 
Riderhood stiffened the knee on which he had been resting , got up , and looked gloomily at his new friend . 
and Riderhood , unfolding his arms to smear his coat cuff across his mouth with a thoughtful air . 
'I have a pound for you , said Bradley . 
'You've two , said Riderhood . 
Bradley held a sovereign between his fingers . 
Slouching at his side with his eyes upon the towing path , Riderhood held his left hand open , with a certain slight drawing action towards himself . 
Bradley dipped in his purse for another sovereign , and two chinked in Riderhood's hand , the drawing action of which , promptly strengthening , drew them home to his pocket . 
'Now , I must follow him , said Bradley Headstone . 
'He takes this river road the fool ! to confuse observation , or divert attention , if not solely to baffle me . 
But he must have the power of making himself invisible before he can shake Me off . 
'If you don't get disapinted agin , T'otherest , maybe you'll put up at the Lock house when you come back ? 'I will . 
Riderhood nodded , and the figure of the bargeman went its way along the soft turf by the side of the towing path , keeping near the hedge and moving quickly . 
They had turned a point from which a long stretch of river was visible . 
A stranger to the scene might have been certain that here and there along the line of hedge a figure stood , watching the bargeman , and waiting for him to come up . 
So he himself had often believed at first , until his eyes became used to the posts , bearing the dagger that slew Wat Tyler , in the City of London shield . 
Within Mr Riderhood's knowledge all daggers were as one . 
The boat went on , under the arching trees , and over their tranquil shadows in the water . 
The bargeman skulking on the opposite bank of the stream , went on after it . 
Sparkles of light showed Riderhood when and where the rower dipped his blades , until , even as he stood idly watching , the sun went down and the landscape was dyed red . 
And then the red had the appearance of fading out of it and mounting up to Heaven , as we say that blood , guiltily shed , does . 
, the Rogue pondered as deeply as it was within the contracted power of such a fellow to do . 
'Why did he copy my clothes ? He could have looked like what he wanted to look like , without that . 
And he devised a means . 
Rogue Riderhood went into his Lock house , and brought forth , into the now sober grey light , his chest of clothes . 
'Lock ho ! Lock ! It was a light night , and a barge coming down summoned him out of a long doze . 
'Back a' ready , T'otherest ? 'He has put up for the night , at an Angler's Inn , was the fatigued and hoarse reply . 
'He goes on , up the river , at six in the morning . 
I have come back for a couple of hours' rest . 
'You want 'em , said Riderhood , making towards the schoolmaster by his plank bridge . 
'I don't want them , returned Bradley , irritably , 'because I would rather not have them , but would much prefer to follow him all night . 
However , if he won't lead , I can't follow . 
This would be a bad pit for a man to be flung into with his hands tied . 
These slippery smooth walls would give him no chance . 
And I suppose those gates would suck him down ? 'Suck him down , or swaller him up , he wouldn't get out , said Riderhood . 
'Not even , if his hands warn't tied , he wouldn't . 
Shut him in at both ends , and I'd give him a pint o' old ale ever to come up to me standing here . 
Bradley looked down with a ghastly relish . 
'You run about the brink , and run across it , in this uncertain light , on a few inches width of rotten wood , said he . 
'I wonder you have no thought of being drowned . 
'I can't be ! said Riderhood . 
'You can't be drowned ? 'No ! said Riderhood , shaking his head with an air of thorough conviction , 'it's well known . 
I've been brought out o' drowning , and I can't be drowned . 
I wouldn't have that there busted B'lowbridger aware on it , or her people might make it tell agin' the damages I mean to get . 
But it's well known to water side characters like myself , that him as has been brought out o drowning , can never be drowned . 
'You seem to like it , said Riderhood . 
He took no notice , but stood looking down , as if he had not heard the words . 
There was a very dark expression on his face an expression that the Rogue found it hard to understand . 
It was fierce , and full of purpose but the purpose might have been as much against himself as against another . 
If he had stepped back for a spring , taken a leap , and thrown himself in , it would have been no surprising sequel to the look . 
Perhaps his troubled soul , set upon some violence , did hover for the moment between that violence and another . 
'Hadn't you better come in and take your couple o' hours' rest ? 'Thank you . 
The last he brought in , cool and dripping , from the river . 
'There , T'otherest , said Riderhood , stooping over him to put it on the table . 
'You'd better take a bite and a sup , afore you takes your snooze . 
The draggling ends of the red neckerchief caught the schoolmaster's eyes . 
Riderhood saw him look at it . 
'Oh ! thought that worthy . 
'You're a taking notice , are you ? Come ! You shall have a good squint at it then . 
With which reflection he sat down on the other side of the table , threw open his vest , and made a pretence of re tying the neckerchief with much deliberation . 
'When you're ready for your snooze , said that honest creature , 'chuck yourself on my bed in the corner , T'otherest . 
It'll be broad day afore three . 
'I shall require no calling , answered Bradley . 
And soon afterwards , divesting himself only of his shoes and coat , laid himself down . 
Riderhood knew when a fish leaped , by his starting and glancing round . 
'Lock ho ! Lock ! at intervals all day , and 'Lock ho ! Lock ! thrice in the ensuing night , but no return of Bradley . 
The second day was sultry and oppressive . 
In the afternoon , a thunderstorm came up , and had but newly broken into a furious sweep of rain when he rushed in at the door , like the storm itself . 
'You've seen him with her ! exclaimed Riderhood , starting up . 
'Where ? 'At his journey's end . 
His boat's hauled up for three days . 
I heard him give the order . 
Then , I saw him wait for her and meet her . 
I saw them' he stopped as though he were suffocating , and began again 'I saw them walking side by side , last night . 
'What did you do ? 'Nothing . 
'What are you going to do ? He dropped into a chair , and laughed . 
Immediately afterwards , a great spirt of blood burst from his nose . 
'How does that happen ? asked Riderhood . 
I can't keep it back . 
It has happened twice three times four times I don't know how many times since last night . 
I taste it , smell it , see it , it chokes me , and then it breaks out like this . 
All beyond his figure , as Riderhood looked from the door , was a vast dark curtain in solemn movement towards one quarter of the heavens . 
He raised his head and came back , wet from head to foot , but with the lower parts of his sleeves , where he had dipped into the river , streaming water . 
'Your face is like a ghost's , said Riderhood . 
'Did you ever see a ghost ? was the sullen retort . 
'I mean to say , you're quite wore out . 
I have had no rest since I left here . 
I don't remember that I have so much as sat down since I left here . 
'Lie down now , then , said Riderhood . 
'I will , if you'll give me something to quench my thirst first . 
The bottle and jug were again produced , and he mixed a weak draught , and another , and drank both in quick succession . 
'You asked me something , he said then . 
'No , I didn't , replied Riderhood . 
'I tell you , retorted Bradley , turning upon him in a wild and desperate manner , 'you asked me something , before I went out to wash my face in the river . 
'Oh ! Then ? said Riderhood , backing a little . 
'I asked you wot you wos a going to do . 
'How can I plan anything , if I haven't sleep ? 'Why , that's what I as good as said , returned the other . 
'Didn't I say lie down ? 'Well , perhaps you did . 
'Well ! Anyways I says it again . 
Sleep where you slept last the sounder and longer you can sleep , the better you'll know arterwards what you're up to . 
His pointing to the truckle bed in the corner , seemed gradually to bring that poor couch to Bradley's wandering remembrance . 
He slipped off his worn down trodden shoes , and cast himself heavily , all wet as he was , upon the bed . 
Riderhood sat down in his wooden arm chair , and looked through the window at the lightning , and listened to the thunder . 
But , his thoughts were far from being absorbed by the thunder and the lightning , for again and again and again he looked very curiously at the exhausted man upon the bed . 
The man had turned up the collar of the rough coat he wore , to shelter himself from the storm , and had buttoned it about his neck . 
From all these phases of the storm , Riderhood would turn , as if they were interruptions rather striking interruptions possibly , but interruptions still of his scrutiny of the sleeper . 
He very cautiously rose to his feet . 
'T'otherest , he said , in a low , calm voice , 'are you a lying easy ? There's a chill in the air , governor . 
Shall I put a coat over you ? No answer . 
It was a grand spectacle , but not so grand as to keep his eyes , for half a minute together , from stealing a look at the man upon the bed . 
Then , Riderhood came from the window cautiously , and stood by the bed . 
Shall I loosen it for him , and make him more comfortable ? Ah ! I think I ought to do it , poor man . 
He touched the first button with a very cautious hand , and a step backward . 
But , the sleeper remaining in profound unconsciousness , he touched the other buttons with a more assured hand , and perhaps the more lightly on that account . 
Softly and slowly , he opened the coat and drew it back . 
Chapter THE GOLDEN DUSTMAN RISES A LITTLE Mr and Mrs Lammle had come to breakfast with Mr and Mrs Boffin . 
They were in a charming state of mind , were Mr and Mrs Lammle , and almost as fond of Mr and Mrs Boffin as of one another . 
'My dear Mrs Boffin , said Mrs Lammle , 'it imparts new life to me , to see my Alfred in confidential communication with Mr Boffin . 
The two were formed to become intimate . 
So much simplicity combined with so much force of character , such natural sagacity united to such amiability and gentleness these are the distinguishing characteristics of both . 
This being said aloud , gave Mr Lammle an opportunity , as he came with Mr Boffin from the window to the breakfast table , of taking up his dear and honoured wife . 
'My Sophronia , said that gentleman , 'your too partial estimate of your husband's character 'No ! Not too partial , Alfred , urged the lady , tenderly moved 'never say that . 
'To the first charge , Alfred , I plead guilty . 
Mr Boffin bears and forbears far more than I could . 
'Far more than you could for yourself , Alfred ? 'My love , that is not the question . 
'Not the question , Lawyer ? said Mrs Lammle , archly . 
To those noble qualities I can lay no claim . 
On the contrary , they rouse my indignation when I see them in action . 
'Alfred ! 'They rouse my indignation , my dear , against the unworthy persons , and give me a combative desire to stand between Mr Boffin and all such persons . 
Why ? Because , in my lower nature I am more worldly and less delicate . 
Not being so magnanimous as Mr Boffin , I feel his injuries more than he does himself , and feel more capable of opposing his injurers . 
It struck Mrs Lammle that it appeared rather difficult this morning to bring Mr and Mrs Boffin into agreeable conversation . 
Here had been several lures thrown out , and neither of them had uttered a word . 
Here were she , Mrs Lammle , and her husband discoursing at once affectingly and effectively , but discoursing alone . 
He sat with his eyes on his plate , eating his muffins and ham , and she sat shyly looking at the teapot . 
Mrs Lammle's innocent appeal was merely thrown into the air , to mingle with the steam of the urn . 
'Self praise , Alfred ? Do you mean because we are one and the same ? 'No , my dear child . 
'Do you admit the charge , Sophronia ? inquired Alfred , in a rallying tone . 
'Really , I think , said Mrs Lammle , still gaily , 'I must throw myself on the protection of the Court . 
Am I bound to answer that question , my Lord ? To Mr Boffin . 
'You needn't , if you don't like , ma'am , was his answer . 
'It's not of the least consequence . 
Both husband and wife glanced at him , very doubtfully . 
His manner was grave , but not coarse , and derived some dignity from a certain repressed dislike of the tone of the conversation . 
Again Mrs Lammle raised her eyebrows for instruction from her husband . 
He replied in a slight nod , 'Try 'em again . 
'To protect myself against the suspicion of covert self laudation , my dear Mrs Boffin , said the airy Mrs Lammle therefore , 'I must tell you how it was . 
Pray don't , Mr Boffin interposed . 
Mrs Lammie turned to him laughingly . 
'The Court objects ? 'Ma'am , said Mr Boffin , 'the Court does object . 
The Court objects for two reasons . 
First , because the Court don't think it fair . 
'It's not above board and it's not fair . 
When the old lady is uncomfortable , there's sure to be good reason for it . 
I see she is uncomfortable , and I plainly see this is the good reason wherefore . 
HAVE you breakfasted , ma'am . 
Mrs Lammle , settling into her defiant manner , pushed her plate away , looked at her husband , and laughed but by no means gaily . 
'Have YOU breakfasted , sir ? inquired Mr Boffin . 
'Thank you , replied Alfred , showing all his teeth . 
'If Mrs Boffin will oblige me , I'll take another cup of tea . 
'A thousand thanks , he then observed . 
'I would rather , said Mr Boffin , 'that it was your husband's , ma'am , because but never mind , because . 
I would rather have to do with him . 
However , what I have to say , I will say with as little offence as possible if I can say it without any , I shall be heartily glad . 
, and I have put into this envelope a bank note for a hundred pound . 
I consider the service well worth a hundred pound , and I am well pleased to pay the money . 
'What do YOU call her , ma'am ? asked Mr Boffin . 
Mrs Lammle disdained to reply , and sat defiantly beating one foot on the ground . 
'Again I think I may say , that's not impossible . 
Is it , sir ? asked Mr Boffin , turning to Alfred . 
'It is not , said Alfred , smiling assent as before , 'not impossible . 
'Now , said Mr Boffin , gently , 'it won't do . 
I don't wish to say a single word that might be afrerwards remembered as unpleasant but it won't do . 
'Sophronia , my love , her husband repeated in a bantering manner , 'you hear ? It won't do . 
'No , said Mr Boffin , with his voice still dropped , 'it really won't . 
You positively must excuse us . 
If you'll go your way , we'll go ours , and so I hope this affair ends to the satisfaction of all parties . 
Mrs Lammle gave him the look of a decidedly dissatisfied party demanding exemption from the category but said nothing . 
'The best thing we can make of the affair , said Mr Boffin , 'is a matter of business , and as a matter of business it's brought to a conclusion . 
You have done me a great service , a very great service , and I have paid for it . 
Is there any objection to the price ? Mr and Mrs Lammle looked at one another across the table , but neither could say that there was . 
Mr Lammle shrugged his shoulders , and Mrs Lammle sat rigid . 
'Very good , said Mr Boffin . 
that you'll give us credit for taking the plainest and honestest short cut that could be taken under the circumstances . 
, and we have felt that at all to lead you on , or even at all to let you go on of your own selves , wouldn't be the right thing . 
If I could have put the case more pleasantly I would but I hope I haven't put it very unpleasantly at all events I haven't meant to . 
So , said Mr Boffin , by way of peroration , 'wishing you well in the way you go , we now conclude with the observation that perhaps you'll go it . 
Mr Lammle rose with an impudent laugh on his side of the table , and Mrs Lammle rose with a disdainful frown on hers . 
At this moment a hasty foot was heard on the staircase , and Georgiana Podsnap broke into the room , unannounced and in tears . 
Both understood her instantly , with a more delicate subtlety than much better educated people , whose perception came less directly from the heart , could have brought to bear upon the case . 
'I haven't a minute , said poor little Georgiana , 'to stay . 
'You came in to see us . 
'Oh , no , I didn't , cried Georgiana . 
'It's very impolite , I know , but I came to see my poor Sophronia , my only friend . 
Oh ! where is , where is it ? Oh ! I can't find it ! All this time sobbing , and searching in the little reticule . 
'What do you miss , my dear ? asked Mr Boffin , stepping forward . 
However , here it is , I am thankful to say , and of use at last , and you'll sell it , dear Sophronia , and buy things with it . 
'Give it to me , said Mr Boffin , gently taking it . 
'I'll see that it's properly disposed of . 
'Oh ! are you such a friend of Sophronia's , Mr Boffin ? cried Georgiana . 
I want them to have something handsome to bring them up in the world again . 
'Oh , thank you , thank you ! cried Georgiana . 
'Good bye , dear Mr Lammle I mean Alfred . 
Returning to the breakfast room , he found Mrs Lammle still standing on her side of the table , and Mr Lammle on his . 
'I'll take care , said Mr Boffin , showing the money and the necklace , 'that these are soon given back . 
'You will not undeceive her I hope , Mr Boffin ? she said , turning her head towards him , but not her eyes . 
'No , said Mr Boffin . 
'I mean , as to the worth and value of her friend , Mrs Lammle explained , in a measured voice , and with an emphasis on her last word . 
Do you care to be thanked ? 'Thanks are always worth having , said Mrs Boffin , in her ready good nature . 
Mrs Lammle will be none the worse for it , if she is . 
But I asked Mrs Lammle if she was . 
She stood sketching on the table cloth , with her face clouded and set , and was silent . 
'Because , said Alfred , 'I am disposed to be sentimental myself , on your appropriation of the jewels and the money , Mr Boffin . 
As our little Georgiana said , three five pound notes are better than nothing , and if you sell a necklace you can buy things with the produce . 
'IF you sell it , was Mr Boffin's comment , as he put it in his pocket . 
Alfred followed it with his looks , and also greedily pursued the notes until they vanished into Mr Boffin's waistcoat pocket . 
Then he directed a look , half exasperated and half jeering , at his wife . 
'You have had no former cause of complaint on the sentimental score , Alfred , and you will have none in future . 
It is not worth your noticing . 
We go abroad soon , with the money we have earned here ? 'You know we do you know we must . 
'There is no fear of my taking any sentiment with me . 
I should soon be eased of it , if I did . 
But it will be all left behind . 
It IS all left behind . 
Are you ready , Alfred ? 'What the deuce have I been waiting for but you , Sophronia ? 'Let us go then . 
I am sorry I have delayed our dignified departure . 
She passed out and he followed her . 
Mr and Mrs Boffin had the curiosity softly to raise a window and look after them as they went down the long street . 
They walked arm in arm , showily enough , but without appearing to interchange a syllable . 
He carried so very attentive an expression on his countenance that it appeared as if the confidential discourse of the big stick required to be followed closely . 
Here they stopped , and Mr Boffin consulted his watch . 
'It wants five minutes , good , to Venus's appointment , said he . 
But Venus was a punctual man , and , even as Mr Boffin replaced his watch in its pocket , was to be descried coming towards him . 
He quickened his pace on seeing Mr Boffin already at the place of meeting , and was soon at his side . 
'Thank'ee , Venus , said Mr Boffin . 
'Thank'ee , thank'ee , thank'ee ! It would not have been very evident why he thanked the anatomist , but for his furnishing the explanation in what he went on to say . 
'All right , Venus , all right . 
Thank'ee , thank'ee , thank'ee ! Mr Venus shook the proffered hand with a modest air , and they pursued the direction of the Bower . 
'Do you think Wegg is likely to drop down upon me to night , Venus ? inquired Mr Boffin , wistfully , as they went along . 
'I think he is , sir . 
Mr Boffin took his nose in his hand , as if it were already excoriated , and the sparks were beginning to fly out of that feature . 
'He's a terrible fellow , Venus he's an awful fellow . 
I don't know how ever I shall go through with it . 
You must stand by me , Venus like a good man and true . 
The stumping approach of Wegg was soon heard behind it , and as it turned upon its hinges he became visible with his hand on the lock . 
'Mr Boffin , sir ? he remarked . 
'You're quite a stranger ! 'Yes . 
I've been otherwise occupied , Wegg . 
'Have you indeed , sir ? returned the literary gentleman , with a threatening sneer . 
'Hah ! I've been looking for you , sir , rather what I may call specially . 
'You don't say so , Wegg ? 'Yes , I do say so , sir . 
And if you hadn't come round to me tonight , dash my wig if I wouldn't have come round to you tomorrow . 
Now ! I tell you ! 'Nothing wrong , I hope , Wegg ? 'Oh no , Mr Boffin , was the ironical answer . 
'Nothing wrong ! What should be wrong in Boffinses Bower ! Step in , sir . 
Mr Boffin's air was crestfallen and submissive . 
Whispered Wegg to Venus , as they crossed the yard behind him 'Look at the worm and minion he's down in the mouth already . 
Whispered Venus to Wegg 'That's because I've told him . 
I've prepared the way for you . 
'My friend and partner , Mr Venus , gives me to understand , remarked that man of might , addressing him , 'that you are aware of our power over you . 
Now , when you have took your hat off , we'll go into that pint . 
Mr Boffin shook it off with one shake , so that it dropped on the floor behind him , and remained in his former attitude with his former rueful look upon him . 
'First of all , I'm a going to call you Boffin , for short , said Wegg . 
'If you don't like it , it's open to you to lump it . 
'I don't mind it , Wegg , Mr Boffin replied . 
'That's lucky for you , Boffin . 
Now , do you want to be read to ? 'I don't particularly care about it to night , Wegg . 
'Because if you did want to , pursued Mr Wegg , the brilliancy of whose point was dimmed by his having been unexpectedly answered 'you wouldn't be . 
I've been your slave long enough . 
I'm not to be trampled under foot by a dustman any more . 
With the single exception of the salary , I renounce the whole and total sitiwation . 
'Since you say it is to be so , Wegg , returned Mr Boffin , with folded hands , 'I suppose it must be . 
'I suppose it must be , Wegg retorted . 
, you've placed in this yard a skulking , a sneaking , and a sniffing , menial . 
'He hadn't a cold in his head when I sent him here , said Mr Boffin . 
'Anyhow , and every how , said Wegg , 'he has been planted here , and he is here . 
Now , I won't have him here . 
So I call upon Boffin , before I say another word , to fetch him in and send him packing to the right about . 
The unsuspecting Sloppy was at that moment airing his many buttons within view of the window . 
Mr Boffin , after a short interval of impassive discomfiture , opened the window and beckoned him to come in . 
He doesn't want you , and you are to go from here . 
'For good ! Mr Wegg severely stipulated . 
'For good , said Mr Boffin . 
'The atomspear , said Wegg , stumping back into the room again , a little reddened by his late exertion , 'is now freer for the purposes of respiration . 
Mr Venus , sir , take a chair . 
Boffin , you may sit down . 
'This gentleman , said Silas Wegg , pointing out Venus , 'this gentleman , Boffin , is more milk and watery with you than I'll be . 
But he hasn't borne the Roman yoke as I have , nor yet he hasn't been required to pander to your depraved appetite for miserly characters . 
'I never meant , my dear Wegg Mr Boffin was beginning , when Silas stopped him . 
'Hold your tongue , Boffin ! Answer when you're called upon to answer . 
You'll find you've got quite enough to do . 
'I tell you so , returned Silas . 
'Now , here's my hat , Boffin , and here's my walking stick . 
I have said so to Venus . 
'You certainly have , sir , said Venus . 
'You're too milk and watery with our friend , you are indeed , remonstrated Silas , with a disapproving shake of his wooden head . 
Then at once you confess yourself desirous to come to terms , do you Boffin ? Before you answer , keep this hat well in your mind and also this walking stick . 
'I am willing , Wegg , to come to terms . 
'Willing won't do , Boffin . 
'Yes what ? said the inexorable Wegg 'I won't take yes . 
I'll have it out of you in full , Boffin . 
'Dear me ! cried that unfortunate gentleman . 
'I am so worrited ! I ask to be allowed to come to terms , supposing your document is all correct . 
'Don't you be afraid of that , said Silas , poking his head at him . 
'You shall be satisfied by seeing it . 
Mr Venus will show it you , and I'll hold you the while . 
Then you want to know what the terms are . 
Is that about the sum and substance of it ? Will you or won't you answer , Boffin ? For he had paused a moment . 
'Dear me ! cried that unfortunate gentleman again , 'I am worrited to that degree that I'm almost off my head . 
Be so good as name the terms , Wegg . 
'Now , mark , Boffin , returned Silas 'Mark 'em well , because they're the lowest terms and the only terms . 
into the general estate , and then you'll divide the whole property into three parts , and you'll keep one and hand over the others . 
Mr Venus's mouth screwed itself up , as Mr Boffin's face lengthened itself , Mr Venus not having been prepared for such a rapacious demand . 
'Now , wait a bit , Boffin , Wegg proceeded , 'there's something more . 
You've been a squandering this property laying some of it out on yourself . 
You'll be charged for it . 
'I shall be ruined , Wegg ! Mr Boffin faintly protested . 
'Now , wait a bit , Boffin there's something more . 
You'll leave me in sole custody of these Mounds till they're all laid low . 
If any waluables should be found in 'em , I'll take care of such waluables . 
When the Mounds is cleared away to the last shovel full , the final diwision will come off . 
'Dreadful , dreadful , dreadful ! I shall die in a workhouse ! cried the Golden Dustman , with his hands to his head . 
'Now , wait a bit , Boffin there's something more . 
You've been unlawfully ferreting about this yard . 
You've been seen in the act of ferreting about this yard . 
Two pair of eyes at the present moment brought to bear upon you , have seen you dig up a Dutch bottle . 
'It was mine , Wegg , protested Mr Boffin . 
'I put it there myself . 
'What was in it , Boffin ? inquired Silas . 
We charge that bottle against our dusty friend at a thousand pound . 
Mr Boffin drew a deep groan . 
'Now , wait a bit , Boffin there's something more . 
In your employment is an under handed sneak , named Rokesmith . 
It won't answer to have HIM about , while this business of ours is about . 
'Rokesmith is already discharged , said Mr Boffin , speaking in a muffled voice , with his hands before his face , as he rocked himself on the settle . 
'Already discharged , is he ? returned Wegg , surprised . 
'Oh ! Then , Boffin , I believe there's nothing more at present . 
But , his taking time was exactly the thing of all others that Silas Wegg could not be induced to hear of . 
At length , Mr Boffin entreated to be allowed a quarter of an hour's grace , and a cooling walk of that duration in the yard . 
Mr Wegg was much distressed when the quarter of an hour expired , and came hopping in , a very bad second . 
'I can't help myself ! cried Mr Boffin , flouncing on the settle in a forlorn manner , with his hands deep in his pockets , as if his pockets had sunk . 
'What's the good of my pretending to stand out , when I can't help myself ? I must give in to the terms . 
But I should like to see the document . 
Wegg , who was all for clinching the nail he had so strongly driven home , announced that Boffin should see it without an hour's delay . 
Thus they reached Mr Venus's establishment , somewhat heated by the nature of their progress thither . 
Mr Wegg , especially , was in a flaming glow , and stood in the little shop , panting and mopping his head with his pocket handkerchief , speechless for several minutes . 
Meanwhile , Mr Venus , who had left the duelling frogs to fight it out in his absence by candlelight for the public delectation , put the shutters up . 
Will you obligingly shove that box which you mentioned on a former occasion as containing miscellanies towards me in the midst of the shop here ? Mr Venus did as he was asked . 
'Very good , said Silas , looking about 've ry good . 
Will you hand me that chair , sir , to put a top of it ? Venus handed him the chair . 
If you'll open it and hold it well up in one hand , sir , and a candle in the other , he can read it charming . 
Mr Boffin seemed rather inclined to object to these precautionary arrangements , but , being immediately embraced by Wegg , resigned himself . 
'Say when you've put it safe back , Mr Venus , he uttered with difficulty , 'for the strain of this is terrimenjious . 
Mr Boffin , for his part , made no attempt to come down , but remained aloft disconsolate . 
'Well , Boffin ! said Wegg , as soon as he was in a condidon to speak . 
'Yes , Wegg , said Mr Boffin , meekly . 
'You have no doubts about it , Boffin . 
None , was the slow and sad reply . 
'Then , take care , you , said Wegg , 'that you stick to your conditions . 
Mr Venus , reminded of the duties of hospitality , produced some rum . 
In answer to the inquiry , 'Will you mix it , Mr Wegg ? that gentleman pleasantly rejoined , 'I think not , sir . 
On so auspicious an occasion , I prefer to take it in the form of a Gum Tickler . 
Mr Boffin , declining rum , being still elevated on his pedestal , was in a convenient position to be addressed . 
Wegg having eyed him with an impudent air at leisure , addressed him , therefore , while refreshing himself with his dram . 
'Bof fin ! 'Yes , Wegg , he answered , coming out of a fit of abstraction , with a sigh . 
'I haven't mentioned one thing , because it's a detail that comes of course . 
You must be followed up , you know . 
You must be kept under inspection . 
'I don't quite understand , said Mr Boffin . 
'Don't you ? sneered Wegg . 
'Where's your wits , Boffin ? Till the Mounds is down and this business completed , you're accountable for all the property , recollect . 
Consider yourself accountable to me . 
Mr Venus here being too milk and watery with you , I am the boy for you . 
'I've been a thinking , said Mr Boffin , in a tone of despondency , 'that I must keep the knowledge from my old lady . 
'The knowledge of the diwision , d'ye mean ? inquired Wegg , helping himself to a third Gum Tickler for he had already taken a second . 
However , I don't mind . 
'Don't you see , Wegg ? Mr Boffin feelingly represented to him 'don't you see ? My old lady has got so used to the property . 
It would be such a hard surprise . 
'I don't see it at all , blustered Wegg . 
'You'll have as much as I shall . 
And who are you ? 'But then , again , Mr Boffin gently represented 'my old lady has very upright principles . 
But he commanded himself , and said tamely enough 'I think it must be kept from my old lady , Wegg . 
'Well , said Wegg , contemptuously , though , perhaps , perceiving some hint of danger otherwise , 'keep it from your old lady . 
I ain't going to tell her . 
I can have you under close inspection without that . 
I'm as good a man as you , and better . 
Give me the run of your 'ouse . 
I was good enough for you and your old lady once , when I helped you out with your weal and hammers . 
Was there no Miss Elizabeth , Master George , Aunt Jane , and Uncle Parker , before YOU two ? 'Gently , Mr Wegg , gently , Venus urged . 
'Milk and water erily you mean , sir , he returned , with some little thickness of speech , in consequence of the Gum Ticklers having tickled it . 
'I've got him under inspection , and I'll inspect him . 
Along the line the signal ran England expects as this present man Will keep Boffin to his duty . 
Boffin , I'll see you home . 
Mr Boffin descended with an air of resignation , and gave himself up , after taking friendly leave of Mr Venus . 
Once more , Inspector and Inspected went through the streets together , and so arrived at Mr Boffin's door . 
'Bof fin ! he called through the keyhole . 
'Yes , Wegg , was the reply through the same channel . 
Let's have another look at you ! Mr Boffin ah , how fallen from the high estate of his honest simplicity ! opened the door and obeyed . 
You may get to bed now , said Wegg , with a grin . 
The door was hardly closed , when he again called through the keyhole 'Bof fin ! 'Yes , Wegg . 
Chapter A RUNAWAY MATCH Cherubic Pa arose with as little noise as possible from beside majestic Ma , one morning early , having a holiday before him . 
Pa and the lovely woman had a rather particular appointment to keep . 
Yet Pa and the lovely woman were not going out together . 
Bella was up before four , but had no bonnet on . 
'How do YOU feel , my love ? asked R. W. , as she gave him his breakfast . 
'I feel as if the Fortune teller was coming true , dear Pa , and the fair little man was turning out as was predicted . 
'Ho ! Only the fair little man ? said her father . 
Bella put another of those finger seals upon his lips , and then said , kneeling down by him as he sat at table 'Now , look here , sir . 
Yes , I do , though . 
Wasn't it one of these beau tiful tresses ? with his caressing hand upon her hair . 
'Wasn't it , too ! returned Bella , pretending to pout . 
And he wears it , too , round his neck , I can tell you ! Near his heart ! said Bella , nodding . 
'Now , darling Pa , give me your hands that I may fold them together , and do you say after me My little Bella . 
'My little Bella , repeated Pa . 
'I am very fond of you . 
'I am very fond of you , my darling , said Pa . 
'You mustn't say anything not dictated to you , sir . 
You daren't do it in your responses at Church , and you mustn't do it in your responses out of Church . 
'I withdraw the darling , said Pa . 
'That's a pious boy ! Now again You were always 'You were always , repeated Pa . 
'A vexatious 'No you weren't , said Pa . 
And as to your bonnets , they have always been nice bonnets , for they have always become you or you have become them perhaps it was that at every age . 
, with fantastic pleasure in the picture , 'when I beat you with my bonnet ? 'No , my child . 
Wouldn't have hurt a fly ! 'Ay , but I am afraid I shouldn't have beat you at all , unless I had meant to hurt you , said Bella . 
'Did I pinch your legs , Pa ? 'Not much , my dear but I think it's almost time I 'Oh , yes ! cried Bella . 
'If I go on chattering , you'll be taken alive . 
When he had gone a little way , he looked back . 
Upon which , Bella set another of those finger seals upon the air , and thrust out her little foot expressive of the mark . 
Pa , in appropriate action , expressed fidelity to the mark , and made off as fast as he could go . 
'I am going for a walk , Lavvy , she said , as she stooped down and kissed her . 
The Irrepressible , with a bounce in the bed , and a remark that it wasn't time to get up yet , relapsed into unconsciousness , if she had come out of it . 
Behold Bella and Pa aboard an early steamboat for Greenwich . 
Were they expected at Greenwich ? Probably . 
little steamboat got her steam up in London . 
At least , Mr John Rokesmith seemed perfectly satisfied when he descried them on board . 
Stranded was Gruff and Glum in a harbour of everlasting mud , when all in an instant Bella floated him , and away he went . 
Be it as it might , he gave his moorings the slip , and followed in chase . 
The cherub went before , all beaming smiles Bella and John Rokesmith followed Gruff and Glum stuck to them like wax . 
He was a slow sailer on a wind of happiness , but he took a cross cut for the rendezvous , and pegged away as if he were scoring furiously at cribbage . 
When the shadow of the church porch swallowed them up , victorious Gruff and Glum likewise presented himself to be swallowed up . 
Albeit it was heard of afterwards , as will afterwards be read in this veracious register of marriage . 
Who taketh ? I , John , and so do I , Bella . 
consider it done , and withdraw your two wooden legs from this temple . 
To the foregoing purport , the Minister speaking , as directed by the Rubric , to the People , selectly represented in the present instance by G. and G. above mentioned . 
And long on the bright steps stood Gruff and Glum , looking after the pretty bride , with a narcotic consciousness of having dreamed a dream . 
After which , Bella took out from her pocket a little letter , and read it aloud to Pa and John this being a true copy of the same . 
I thought it best not to mention it beforehand , in case it should cause any little difference at home . 
With love to Lavvy , Ever dearest Ma , Your affectionate daughter , BELLA . 
A modest little cottage but a bright and a fresh , and on the snowy tablecloth the prettiest of little breakfasts . 
'You are a charming old pensioner , said Bella , 'and I am so happy that I wish I could make you happy , too . 
to remind Pa that she was HIS lovely woman no longer . 
'I am well aware of it , my dear , returned the cherub , 'and I resign you willingly . 
'Willingly , sir ? You ought to be brokenhearted . 
'So I should be , my dear , if I thought that I was going to lose you . 
'Now , we are a partnership of three , dear Pa . 
This dignitary , conferring in secrecy with John Rokesmith on the subject of punch and wines , bent his head as though stooping to the Papistical practice of receiving auricular confession . 
Likewise , on John's offering a suggestion which didn't meet his views , his face became overcast and reproachful , as enjoining penance . 
The best of it was , that Bella and John and the cherub had made a covenant that they would not reveal to mortal eyes any appearance whatever of being a wedding party . 
Now , the supervising dignitary , the Archbishop of Greenwich , knew this as well as if he had performed the nuptial ceremony . 
in love with some young female not aware of his merit . 
'Pray excuse him , madam , said the Archbishop in a low stately voice 'he is a very young man on liking , and we DON'T like him . 
Whereunto Bella replied , with probably the least successful attempt at looking matronly that ever was seen 'Indeed , I think so , John , dear . 
The Archbishop instantly ejected and excommunicated him but the thing was done . 
With that , he solemnly bowed and retired , and they all burst into laughter , long and merry . 
'Isn't it strange , now , to think that there was no John in all the ships , Pa ? 'Not at all , my dear . 
'Oh , Pa ! Not at all ? 'No , my dear . 
'Though I positively cannot tear myself away , he cherubically added , it would be a sin without drinking to many , many happy returns of this most happy day . 
'Here ! ten thousand times ! cried John . 
'I fill my glass and my precious wife's . 
You will also at once infer the nature and even the terms of the toast I am about to propose on the present occasion . 
Gentlemen and Bella and John the present occasion is an occasion fraught with feelings that I cannot trust myself to express . 
'Pa , dear ! cried Bella , beckoning him with her parasol to approach the side , and bending gracefully to whisper . 
'Did I beat you much with that horrid little bonnet , Pa ? 'Nothing to speak of my dear . 
'Did I pinch your legs , Pa ? 'Only nicely , my pet . 
'And you don't feel solitary or neglected , going away by yourself do you , Pa ? 'Lord bless you ! No , my Life ! 'Good bye , dearest Pa . 
Good bye ! 'Good bye , my darling ! Take her away , my dear John . 
Take her home ! So , she leaning on her husband's arm , they turned homeward by a rosy path which the gracious sun struck out for them in its setting . 
And O there are days in this life , worth life and worth death . 
'You do not , R. W. said Mrs Wilfer from her stately corner , 'inquire for your daughter Bella . 
'To be sure , my dear , he returned , with a most flagrant assumption of unconsciousness , 'I did omit it . 
How or perhaps I should rather say where IS Bella ? 'Not here , Mrs Wilfer proclaimed , with folded arms . 
The cherub faintly muttered something to the abortive effect of 'Oh , indeed , my dear ! 'Not here , repeated Mrs Wilfer , in a stern sonorous voice . 
'In a word , R. W. , you have no daughter Bella . 
'No daughter Bella , my dear ? 'No . 
'Good gracious , my dear ! 'Show your father his daughter Bella's letter , Lavinia , said Mrs Wilfer , in her monotonous Act of Parliament tone , and waving her hand . 
'I think your father will admit it to be documentary proof of what I tell him . 
I believe your father is acquainted with his daughter Bella's writing . 
But I do not know . 
He may tell you he is not . 
'Posted at Greenwich , and dated this morning , said the Irrepressible , flouncing at her father in handing him the evidence . 
Upon which encouragement he said it again , though scarcely with the success he had expected for the scornful lady then remarked , with extreme bitterness 'You said that before . 
, strictly speaking , a Mendicant . 
'Indeed ? returned Mrs Wilfer , with an awful air of politeness . 
'Truly so ? I was not aware that Mr John Rokesmith was a gentleman of landed property . 
But I am much relieved to hear it . 
'I doubt if you HAVE heard it , my dear , the cherub submitted with hesitation . 
'Thank you , said Mrs Wilfer . 
'I make false statements , it appears ? So be it . 
If my daughter flies in my face , surely my husband may . 
The one thing is not more unnatural than the other . 
There seems a fitness in the arrangement . 
By all means ! Assuming , with a shiver of resignation , a deadly cheerfulness . 
But , here the Irrepressible skirmished into the conflict , dragging the reluctant form of Mr Sampson after her . 
'How ! exclaimed Mrs Wilfer , knitting her dark brows . 
'Just im possible nonsense , Ma , returned Lavvy , 'and George Sampson knows it is , as well as I do . 
As of course I should have done . 
'As of course you would have done ? Ingrate ! exclaimed Mrs Wilfer . 
'Viper ! 'I say ! You know ma'am . 
Upon my honour you mustn't , Mr Sampson remonstrated , shaking his head seriously , 'With the highest respect for you , ma'am , upon my life you mustn't . 
No really , you know . 
to vipers , you know ! I would merely put it to your own good feeling , you know , said Mr Sampson , in rather lame conclusion . 
'My own unnatural mother , screamed the young lady , 'wants to annihilate George ! But you shan't be annihilated , George . 
'You shall not be annihilated , George ! cried Miss Lavinia . 
'Ma shall destroy me first , and then she'll be contented . 
Give my love to your aunt , George dear , and implore her not to curse the viper that has crossed your path and blighted your existence . 
Miss Lavinia assumed a modest air of having distinguished herself Mrs Wilfer , a serene air of forgiveness and resignation Mr Sampson , an air of having been improved and chastened . 
The influence pervaded the spirit in which they returned to the previous question . 
Mr Sampson said he was sure of it too murmuring how eminently he respected Mrs Wilfer , and ever must , and ever would . 
Never more eminently , he added , than after what had passed . 
I may feel nay , know that I have been deluded and deceived . 
I may feel nay , know that I have been set aside and passed over . 
I may feel nay , know that in uniting herself to Mr Rokesmith she has united herself to one who is , in spite of shallow sophistry , a Mendicant . 
And I may feel well assured that your daughter Bella , again turning to her husband , 'does not exalt her family by becoming a Mendicant's bride . 
But I suppress what I feel , and say nothing of it . 
Mr Sampson murmured that this was the sort of thing you might expect from one who had ever in her own family been an example and never an outrage . 
and never more so , than in and through what had passed . 
'Therefore , R. W. said Mrs Wilfer , resuming her discourse and turning to her lord again , 'let your daughter Bella come when she will , and she will be received . 
So , after a short pause , and an air of having taken medicine in it , 'so will her husband . 
'And I beg , Pa , said Lavinia , 'that you will not tell Bella what I have undergone . 
It can do no good , and it might cause her to reproach herself . 
'My dearest girl , urged Mr Sampson , 'she ought to know it . 
'No , George , said Lavinia , in a tone of resolute self denial . 
'No , dearest George , let it be buried in oblivion . 
Mr Sampson considered that , 'too noble . 
'Nothing is too noble , dearest George , returned Lavinia . 
'And Pa , I hope you will be careful not to refer before Bella , if you can help it , to my engagement to George . 
It might seem like reminding her of her having cast herself away . 
And I hope , Pa , that you will think it equally right to avoid mentioning George's rising prospects , when Bella is present . 
It might seem like taunting her with her own poor fortunes . 
Let me ever remember that I am her younger sister , and ever spare her painful contrasts , which could not but wound her sharply . 
Mr Sampson expressed his belief that such was the demeanour of Angels . 
Miss Lavvy replied with solemnity , 'No , dearest George , I am but too well aware that I am merely human . 
However , the scene being over , and all things considered well over , he sought refuge in a doze which gave his lady immense offence . 
'Can you think of your daughter Bella , and sleep ? she disdainfully inquired . 
To which he mildly answered , 'Yes , I think I can , my dear . 
'Then , said Mrs Wilfer , with solemn indignation , 'I would recommend you , if you have a human feeling , to retire to bed . 
'Thank you , my dear , he replied 'I think it IS the best place for me . 
And with these unsympathetic words very gladly withdrew . 
came to tea , in fulfilment of an engagement made through her father . 
'Dearest Ma , cried Bella , running into the room with a radiant face , 'how do you do , dearest Ma ? And then embraced her , joyously . 
John , love , kiss Ma and Lavvy , and then we shall all be at home and comfortable . 
Mrs Wilfer stared , but was helpless . 
Miss Lavinia stared , but was helpless . 
Apparently with no compunction , and assuredly with no ceremony , Bella tossed her bonnet away , and sat down to make the tea . 
'Dearest Ma and Lavvy , you both take sugar , I know . 
, you don't take milk . 
I didn't before I was married but I do now , because John does . 
John dear , did you kiss Ma and Lavvy ? Oh , you did ! Quite correct , John dear but I didn't see you do it , so I asked . 
Cut some bread and butter , John that's a love . 
'I think it must have made you rather cross , dear Ma and Lavvy , and I know I deserved that you should be very cross . 
Because , you see , you didn't know how much of Good , Good , Good , I had learnt from John . 
And as he did like , I let him . 
And we were married at Greenwich church in the presence of nobody except an unknown individual who dropped in , here her eyes sparkled more brightly , 'and half a pensioner . 
'And now you will naturally want to know , dearest Ma and Lavvy , how we live , and what we have got to live upon . 
But Bella started up , and put her hand upon his lips . 
'Stop , Sir ! No , John , dear ! Seriously ! Please not yet a while ! I want to be something so much worthier than the doll in the doll's house . 
'I will , my Life , said John . 
The newly married pair left early , so that they might walk at leisure to their starting place from London , for Greenwich . 
At first they were very cheerful and talked much but after a while , Bella fancied that her husband was turning somewhat thoughtful . 
I was thinking whether you wouldn't like me to be rich ? 'You rich , John ? repeated Bella , shrinking a little . 
'I mean , really rich . 
Say , as rich as Mr Boffin . 
You would like that ? 'I should be almost afraid to try , John dear . 
'Most people ? Bella musingly suggested with raised eyebrows . 
'Nor even most people , it may be hoped . 
If you were rich , for instance , you would have a great power of doing good to others . 
But it's so easy to hope not and think not , without the riches . 
'Why don't you say , my darling instead of that phrase being poor ? he asked , looking earnestly at her . 
'Why don't I say , being poor ! Because I am not poor . 
Dear John , it's not possible that you suppose I think we are poor ? 'I do , my love . 
'Oh John ! 'Understand me , sweetheart . 
I know that I am rich beyond all wealth in having you but I think OF you , and think FOR you . 
In such a dress as you are wearing now , you first charmed me , and in no dress could you ever look , to my thinking , more graceful or more beautiful . 
It brings these tears of grateful pleasure into my eyes , to hear you say so with such tenderness . 
But I don't want them . 
'Again , he pursued , 'we are now walking through the muddy streets . 
I love those pretty feet so dearly , that I feel as if I could not bear the dirt to soil the sole of your shoe . 
But I don't want a carriage , believe me . 
'You would like one if you could have one , Bella ? 'I shouldn't like it for its own sake , half so well as such a wish for it . 
Dear John , your wishes are as real to me as the wishes in the Fairy story , that were all fulfilled as soon as spoken . 
Wish me everything that you can wish for the woman you dearly love , and I have as good as got it , John . 
I have better than got it , John ! They were not the less happy for such talk , and home was not the less home for coming after it . 
Bella was fast developing a perfect genius for home . 
to have taken domestic service with her , and to help her to make home engaging . 
Her married life glided happily on . 
She was alone all day , for , after an early breakfast her husband repaired every morning to the City , and did not return until their late dinner hour . 
, and her dress as daintily managed as if she managed nothing else . 
There was likewise a coolness on the part of the British Housewife , which Mrs John Rokesmith found highly exasperating . 
She would say , 'Take a salamander , as if a general should command a private to catch a Tartar . 
Or , she would casually issue the order , 'Throw in a handful of something entirely unattainable . 
This was the mastering of the newspaper , so that she might be close up with John on general topics when John came home . 
This was her husband's verdict , and he justified it by telling her that she had begun her married life as the most endearing creature that could possibly be . 
'And you have such a cheerful spirit ! he said , fondly . 
'You are like a bright light in the house . 
'Am I truly , John ? 'Are you truly ? Yes , indeed . 
Only much more , and much better . 
'Do you know , John dear , said Bella , taking him by a button of his coat , 'that I sometimes , at odd moments don't laugh , John , please . 
Nothing should induce John to do it , when she asked him not to do it . 
That I sometimes think , John , I feel a little serious . 
'Are you too much alone , my darling ? 'O dear , no , John ! The time is so short that I have not a moment too much in the week . 
'Why serious , my life , then ? When serious ? 'When I laugh , I think , said Bella , laughing as she laid her head upon his shoulder . 
'You wouldn't believe , sir , that I feel serious now ? But I do . 
And she laughed again , and something glistened in her eyes . 
'Would you like to be rich , pet ? he asked her coaxingly . 
'Rich , John ! How CAN you ask such goose's questions ? 'Do you regret anything , my love ? 'Regret anything ? No ! Bella confidently answered . 
But then , suddenly changing , she said , between laughing and glistening 'Oh yes , I do though . 
'I , too , regret that separation very much . 
But perhaps it is only temporary . 
Perhaps things may so fall out , as that you may sometimes see her again as that we may sometimes see her again . 
Bella might be very anxious on the subject , but she scarcely seemed so at the moment . 
With an absent air , she was investigating that button on her husband's coat , when Pa came in to spend the evening . 
Pa had his special chair and his special corner reserved for him on all occasions , and without disparagement of his domestic joys was far happier there , than anywhere . 
It was always pleasantly droll to see Pa and Bella together but on this present evening her husband thought her more than usually fantastic with him . 
'You are a very good little boy , said Bella , 'to come unexpectedly , as soon as you could get out of school . 
There's the Mincing Lane establishment , and there's your mother's Academy . 
Which might you mean , my dear ? 'Both , said Bella . 
'Both , eh ? Why , to say the truth , both have taken a little out of me to day , my dear , but that was to be expected . 
'You are a very bad boy , retorted Bella , 'to talk about dismal things and be out of spirits . 
'My Bella , rejoined her father , 'I am not out of spirits . 
I am as gay as a lark . 
'Then if you are sure and certain it's not you , I suppose it must be I , said Bella 'so I won't do so any more . 
John dear , we must give this little fellow his supper , you know . 
'Of course we must , my darling . 
'He has been grubbing and grubbing at school , said Bella , looking at her father's hand and lightly slapping it , 'till he's not fit to be seen . 
'Come here , sir ! cried Bella , taking him by the front of his coat , 'come here and be washed directly . 
You are not to be trusted to do it for yourself . 
'Hold the light , John . 
Shut your eyes , sir , and let me take hold of your chin . 
Who always received her on his disengaged arm , and detained her , while the patient cherub stood waiting to be finished . 
'There ! said Bella , when she had at last completed the final touches . 
'Now , you are something like a genteel boy ! Put your jacket on , and come and have your supper . 
'Stop a moment , said she , 'we must keep his little clothes clean and tied a napkin under his chin , in a very methodical manner . 
So quiet , that when her father rose to take his leave , she looked round with a start , as if she had forgotten his being there . 
'You go a little way with Pa , John ? 'Yes , my dear . 
Do you ? 'I have not written to Lizzie Hexam since I wrote and told her that I really had a lover a whole one . 
I have often thought I would like to tell her how right she was when she pretended to read in the live coals that I would go through fire and water for him . 
I am in the humour to tell her so to night , John , and I'll stay at home and do it . 
'Not at all tired , John dear , but in the humour to write to Lizzie . 
Good night , dear Pa . 
Good night , you dear , good , gentle Pa ! Left to herself she sat down to write , and wrote Lizzie a long letter . 
She had but completed it and read it over , when her husband came back . 
'You are just in time , sir , said Bella 'I am going to give you your first curtain lecture . 
It shall be a parlour curtain lecture . 
, and you'll soon find yourself taken to task soundly . 
'Now , sir ! To begin at the beginning . 
What is your name ? A question more decidedly rushing at the secret he was keeping from her , could not have astounded him . 
But he kept his countenance and his secret , and answered , 'John Rokesmith , my dear . 
'Not goodest good , because you hesitate about it . 
However , as you know your Catechism fairly , so far , I'll let you off the rest . 
Now , I am going to examine you out of my own head . 
Having no reply ready , he could do no better than embrace her . 
'In short , dear John , said Bella , 'this is the topic of my lecture I want nothing on earth , and I want you to believe it . 
'If that's all , the lecture may be considered over , for I do . 
'It's not all , John dear , Bella hesitated . 
There's a dreadful Secondly , and a dreadful Thirdly to come as I used to say to myself in sermon time when I was a very small sized sinner at church . 
'Let them come , my dearest . 
'Are you sure , John dear are you absolutely certain in your innermost heart of hearts ? 'Which is not in my keeping , he rejoined . 
'No , John , but the key is . 
Wait a moment , and I'll go on with the lecture . 
Give me a moment , because I like to cry for joy . 
It's so delicious , John dear , to cry for joy . 
She did so on his neck , and , still clinging there , laughed a little when she said , 'I think I am ready now for Thirdly , John . 
'I am ready for Thirdly , said John , 'whatever it is . 
'I never knew such a quantity ! It's like verbs in an exercise . 
But I can't get on with less believing . 
I believe , dear John , that you believe that I believe that we have as much money as we require , and that we want for nothing . 
'It is strictly true , Bella . 
'Thank you , John dear , thousands upon thousands of times . 
'Hush ! said her husband , 'I must not hear that . 
You are all wrong there , though otherwise as right as can be . 
And now I am brought to a little piece of news , my dearest , that I might have told you earlier in the evening . 
I have strong reason for confidently believing that we shall never be in the receipt of a smaller income than our present income . 
'Why then , Lord bless this little wife of mine , there's a Fourthly ! exclaimed John . 
As he bent his face to hers , she raised hers to meet it , and laid her little right hand on his eyes , and kept it there . 
there is a ship upon the ocean . 
a little baby , John . 
There were men , women , and children in the groups , and there was no want of lively colour to flutter in the gentle evening wind . 
The mingling of various voices and the sound of laughter made a cheerful impression upon the ear , analogous to that of the fluttering colours upon the eye . 
Into the sheet of water reflecting the flushed sky in the foreground of the living picture , a knot of urchins were casting stones , and watching the expansion of the rippling circles . 
At the general shop , at the butcher's and at the public house , they evinced an inquiring spirit never to he satiated . 
, could only have been attracted by sympathy with loose convivial habits . 
Yet , even he returned to the public house on each occasion with the tenacity of a confirmed drunkard . 
Fearful to relate , there was even a sort of little Fair in the village . 
So did a heap of nuts , long , long exiled from Barcelona , and yet speaking English so indifferently as to call fourteen of themselves a pint . 
They MUST NOT vary the rheumatism with amusement . 
They may vary it with fever and ague , or with as many rheumatic variations as they have joints but positively not with entertainment after their own manner . 
Such was the stillness of the evening to Eugene Wrayburn , as he walked by the river with his hands behind him . 
He walked slowly , and with the measured step and preoccupied air of one who was waiting . 
He walked between the two points , an osier bed at this end and some floating lilies at that , and at each point stopped and looked expectantly in one direction . 
'It is very quiet , said he . 
Some sheep were grazing on the grass by the river side , and it seemed to him that he had never before heard the crisp tearing sound with which they cropped it . 
He stopped idly , and looked at them . 
'You are stupid enough , I suppose . 
'What's here to do ? he asked himself leisurely going towards the gate and looking over . 
Following the tracks with his eyes , the view closed with the new hayrick in a corner . 
But she promised , and she is a girl of her word . 
Turning again at the water lilies , he saw her coming , and advanced to meet her . 
'I was saying to myself , Lizzie , that you were sure to come , though you were late . 
'I had to linger through the village as if I had no object before me , and I had to speak to several people in passing along , Mr Wrayburn . 
'Are the lads of the village and the ladies such scandal mongers ? he asked , as he took her hand and drew it through his arm . 
She submitted to walk slowly on , with downcast eyes . 
He put her hand to his lips , and she quietly drew it away . 
'Will you walk beside me , Mr Wrayburn , and not touch me ? For , his arm was already stealing round her waist . 
She stopped again , and gave him an earnest supplicating look . 
'Well , Lizzie , well ! said he , in an easy way though ill at ease with himself 'don't be unhappy , don't be reproachful . 
'I cannot help being unhappy , but I do not mean to be reproachful . 
Mr Wrayburn , I implore you to go away from this neighbourhood , to morrow morning . 
'Lizzie , Lizzie , Lizzie ! he remonstrated . 
'As well be reproachful as wholly unreasonable . 
'Why not ? 'Faith ! said Eugene in his airily candid manner . 
'Because you won't let me . 
Mind ! I don't mean to be reproachful either . 
I don't complain that you design to keep me here . 
But you do it , you do it . 
'See here ! Napoleon Buonaparte at St Helena . 
Was it true ? 'It was not , replied Eugene composedly , 'in the least true . 
I came here , because I had information that I should find you here . 
'Can you imagine why I left London , Mr Wrayburn ? 'I am afraid , Lizzie , he openly answered , 'that you left London to get rid of me . 
It is not flattering to my self love , but I am afraid you did . 
He looked at her with a real sentiment of remorseful tenderness and pity . 
It was not strong enough to impell him to sacrifice himself and spare her , but it was a strong emotion . 
'Lizzie ! I never thought before , that there was a woman in the world who could affect me so much by saying so little . 
But don't be hard in your construction of me . 
You don't know what my state of mind towards you is . 
You don't know how you haunt me and bewilder me . 
You don't know how the cursed carelessness that is over officious in helping me at every other turning of my life , WON'T help me here . 
You have struck it dead , I think , and I sometimes almost wish you had struck me dead along with it . 
She had not been prepared for such passionate expressions , and they awakened some natural sparks of feminine pride and joy in her breast . 
Indeed I don't reproach you . 
You have not felt this as I feel it , being so different from me , and beginning from another point of view . 
But I entreat you to think now , think now ! 'What am I to think of ? asked Eugene , bitterly . 
'Tell me how NOT to think of you , Lizzie , and you'll change me altogether . 
'I don't mean in that way . 
Think of me , as belonging to another station , and quite cut off from you in honour . 
Remember that I have no protector near me , unless I have one in your noble heart . 
If you feel towards me , in one particular , as you might if I was a lady , give me the full claims of a lady upon your generous behaviour . 
I am removed from you and your family by being a working girl . 
How true a gentleman to be as considerate of me as if I was removed by being a Queen ! He would have been base indeed to have stood untouched by her appeal . 
His face expressed contrition and indecision as he asked 'Have I injured you so much , Lizzie ? 'No , no . 
You may set me quite right . 
I don't speak of the past , Mr Wrayburn , but of the present and the future . 
'Then I beseech you , Mr Wrayburn , I beg and pray you , leave this neighbourhood . 
If you do not , consider to what you will drive me . 
He did consider within himself for a moment or two , and then retorted , 'Drive you ? To what shall I drive you , Lizzie ? 'You will drive me away . 
I live here peacefully and respected , and I am well employed here . 
There was a poor woman died here but a little while ago , scores of years older than I am , whom I found by chance , lying on the wet earth . 
You may have heard some account of her ? 'I think I have , he answered , 'if her name was Higden . 
Though she was so weak and old , she kept true to one purpose to the very last . 
Even at the very last , she made me promise that her purpose should be kept to , after she was dead , so settled was her determination . 
What she did , I can do . 
She tried hard to retain her firmness , but he saw it melting away under his eyes . 
In the moment of its dissolution , and of his first full knowledge of his influence upon her , she dropped , and he caught her on his arm . 
'Lizzie ! Rest so a moment . 
Answer what I ask you . 
Don't ask me , Mr Wrayburn . 
'I swear to you , Lizzie , you shall go directly . 
I swear to you , you shall go alone . 
I'll not accompany you , I'll not follow you , if you will reply . 
He was not merciful with her , and he made her do it . 
that you hate me , or even that you are wholly indifferent to me , Lizzie , let me know so much more from yourself before we separate . 
Let me know how you would have dealt with me if you had regarded me as being what you would have considered on equal terms with you . 
'It is impossible , Mr Wrayburn . 
How can I think of you as being on equal terms with me ? If my mind could put you on equal terms with me , you could not be yourself . 
'Why ? 'Because you WERE so different , she answered in a lower voice . 
'Because it was so endless , so hopeless . 
Spare me ! 'Did you think for me at all , Lizzie ? he asked , as if he were a little stung . 
'Not much , Mr Wrayburn . 
Not much until to night . 
'Will you tell me why ? 'I never supposed until to night that you needed to be thought for . 
He held her , almost as if she were sanctified to him by death , and kissed her , once , almost as he might have kissed the dead . 
'I promised that I would not accompany you , nor follow you . 
Shall I keep you in view ? You have been agitated , and it's growing dark . 
'I am used to be out alone at this hour , and I entreat you not to do so . 
I can bring myself to promise nothing more tonight , Lizzie , except that I will try what I can do . 
'There is but one means , Mr Wrayburn , of sparing yourself and of sparing me , every way . 
Leave this neighbourhood to morrow morning . 
As he spoke the words in a grave voice , she put her hand in his , removed it , and went away by the river side . 
'Now , could Mortimer believe this ? murmured Eugene , still remaining , after a while , where she had left him . 
'Can I even believe it myself ? He referred to the circumstance that there were tears upon his hand , as he stood covering his eyes . 
'A most ridiculous position this , to be found out in ! was his next thought . 
And his next struck its root in a little rising resentment against the cause of the tears . 
Contemplating the reproduction , he seemed to see , for the second time , in the appeal and in the confession of weakness , a little fear . 
And so earnest a character must be very earnest in that passion . 
She cannot choose for herself to be strong in this fancy , wavering in that , and weak in the other . 
She must go through with her nature , as I must go through with mine . 
If mine exacts its pains and penalties all round , so must hers , I suppose . 
Pursuing the inquiry into his own nature , he thought , 'Now , if I married her . 
In the very act of calling this tone of levity to his aid , he felt it to be profligate and worthless , and asserted her against it . 
Eugene , Eugene , Eugene , this is a bad business . 
Ah ! So go the Mortimer Lightwood bells , and they sound melancholy to night . 
Strolling on , he thought of something else to take himself to task for . 
To try no more to go away , and to try her again , was the reckless conclusion it turned uppermost . 
And yet again , 'Eugene , Eugene , Eugene , this is a bad business ! And , 'I wish I could stop the Lightwood peal , for it sounds like a knell . 
He was still by the river side . 
Turning suddenly , he met a man , so close upon him that Eugene , surprised , stepped back , to avoid a collision . 
The man carried something over his shoulder which might have been a broken oar , or spar , or bar , and took no notice of him , but passed on . 
'Halloa , friend ! said Eugene , calling after him , 'are you blind ? The man made no reply , but went his way . 
Eugene Wrayburn went the opposite way , with his hands behind him and his purpose in his thoughts . 
He passed the sheep , and passed the gate , and came within hearing of the village sounds , and came to the bridge . 
The inn where he stayed , like the village and the mill , was not across the river , but on that side of the stream on which he walked . 
A landing place overshadowed by a willow , and a pleasure boat lying moored there among some stakes , caught his eye as he passed along . 
The spot was in such dark shadow , that he paused to make out what was there , and then passed on again . 
The rippling of the river seemed to cause a correspondent stir in his uneasy reflections . 
He would have laid them asleep if he could , but they were in movement , like the stream , and all tending one way with a strong current . 
'Out of the question to marry her , said Eugene , 'and out of the question to leave her . 
The crisis ! He had sauntered far enough . 
Before turning to retrace his steps , he stopped upon the margin , to look down at the reflected night . 
In an instant , with a dreadful crash , the reflected night turned crooked , flames shot jaggedly across the air , and the moon and stars came bursting from the sky . 
After dragging at the assailant , he fell on the bank with him , and then there was another great crash , and then a splash , and all was done . 
The peaceful serenity of the hour and place , having no reproaches or evil intentions within her breast to contend against , sank healingly into its depths . 
She had meditated and taken comfort . 
She , too , was turning homeward , when she heard a strange sound . 
It startled her , for it was like a sound of blows . 
She stood still , and listened . 
It sickened her , for blows fell heavily and cruelly on the quiet of the night . 
As she listened , undecided , all was silent . 
As she yet listened , she heard a faint groan , and a fall into the river . 
Her old bold life and habit instantly inspired her . 
Without vain waste of breath in crying for help where there were none to hear , she ran towards the spot from which the sounds had come . 
At length , she reached a part of the green bank , much and newly trodden , where there lay some broken splintered pieces of wood and some torn fragments of clothes . 
Stooping , she saw that the grass was bloody . 
Following the drops and smears , she saw that the watery margin of the bank was bloody . 
Following the current with her eyes , she saw a bloody face turned up towards the moon , and drifting away . 
A sure touch of her old practised hand , a sure step of her old practised foot , a sure light balance of her body , and she was in the boat . 
A quick glance of her practised eye showed her , even through the deep dark shadow , the sculls in a rack against the red brick garden wall . 
, and the boat had shot out into the moonlight , and she was rowing down the stream as never other woman rowed on English water . 
Intently over her shoulder , without slackening speed , she looked ahead for the driving face . 
An untrained sight would never have seen by the moonlight what she saw at the length of a few strokes astern . 
She saw the drowning figure rise to the surface , slightly struggle , and as if by instinct turn over on its back to float . 
Just so had she first dimly seen the face which she now dimly saw again . 
Once , she let the body evade her , not being sure of her grasp . 
Twice , and she had seized it by its bloody hair . 
It was insensible , if not virtually dead it was mutilated , and streaked the water all about it with dark red streaks . 
As it could not help itself , it was impossible for her to get it on board . 
She bent over the stern to secure it with the line , and then the river and its shores rang to the terrible cry she uttered . 
Desperately , but not wildly , for she knew that if she lost distinctness of intention , all was lost and gone . 
He had fearful wounds upon him , and she bound them up with her dress torn into strips . 
Else , supposing him to be still alive , she foresaw that he must bleed to death before he could be landed at his inn , which was the nearest place for succour . 
This done very rapidly , she kissed his disfigured forehead , looked up in anguish to the stars , and blessed him and forgave him , 'if she had anything to forgive . 
It was only in that instant that she thought of herself , and then she thought of herself only for him . 
The boat touched the edge of the patch of inn lawn , sloping gently to the water . 
There were lights in the windows , but there chanced to be no one out of doors . 
She made the boat fast , and again by main strength took him up , and never laid him down until she laid him down in the house . 
Surgeons were sent for , and she sat supporting his head . 
She had oftentimes heard in days that were gone , how doctors would lift the hand of an insensible wounded person , and would drop it if the person were dead . 
She waited for the awful moment when the doctors might lift this hand , all broken and bruised , and let it fall . 
'You , my dear ? You could not lift , far less carry , this weight . 
'I think I could not , at another time , sir but I am sure I did . 
The surgeon looked at her with great attention , and with some compassion . 
Having with a grave face touched the wounds upon the head , and the broken arms , he took the hand . 
O ! would he let it drop ? He appeared irresolute . 
He did not retain it , but laid it gently down , took a candle , looked more closely at the injuries on the head , and at the pupils of the eyes . 
That done , he replaced the candle and took the hand again . 
Another surgeon then coming in , the two exchanged a whisper , and the second took the hand . 
Neither did he let it fall at once , but kept it for a while and laid it gently down . 
'Attend to the poor girl , said the first surgeon then . 
She sees nothing and hears nothing . 
All the better for her ! Don't rouse her , if you can help it only move her . 
Poor girl , poor girl ! She must be amazingly strong of heart , but it is much to be feared that she has set her heart upon the dead . 
Chapter BETTER TO BE ABEL THAN CAIN Day was breaking at Plashwater Weir Mill Lock . 
Stars were yet visible , but there was dull light in the east that was not the light of night . 
Perhaps it was so likened by the lonely Bargeman , standing on the brink of the lock . 
He turned away , and tried the Lock house door . 
It was fastened on the inside . 
'Is he afraid of me ? he muttered , knocking . 
Rogue Riderhood was soon roused , and soon undrew the bolt and let him in . 
Bradley's face turned so dark on this hint , that Riderhood deemed it expedient to soften it into a compliment . 
'But not you , governor , not you , he went on , stolidly shaking his head . 
That's what I says to myself . 
He's a man o' double honour . 
Very remarkably , Riderhood put no question to him . 
, and the result of his looking was , that he asked him no question . 
And very remarkably again Riderhood feigned to set the scanty furniture in order , while he spoke , to have a show of reason for not looking at him . 
I had better sleep , I think , said Bradley , without changing his position . 
'I myself should recommend it , governor , assented Riderhood . 
'Might you be anyways dry ? 'Yes . 
I should like a drink , said Bradley but without appearing to attend much . 
Mr Riderhood got out his bottle , and fetched his jug full of water , and administered a potation . 
Then , he shook the coverlet of his bed and spread it smooth , and Bradley stretched himself upon it in the clothes he wore . 
Then , he rose and looked at him close , in the bright daylight , on every side , with great minuteness . 
He went out to his Lock to sum up what he had seen . 
'One of his sleeves is tore right away below the elber , and the t'other's had a good rip at the shoulder . 
He's been hung on to , pretty tight , for his shirt's all tore out of the neck gathers . 
He's been in the grass and he's been in the water . 
And he's spotted , and I know with what , and with whose . 
Hooroar ! Bradley slept long . 
Early in the afternoon a barge came down . 
The men on board told him a piece of news , and there was a lingering on their part to enlarge upon it . 
Twelve hours had intervened since Bradley's lying down , when he got up . 
'When are you relieved ? asked Bradley . 
'Day arter to morrow , governor . 
'Not sooner ? 'Not a inch sooner , governor . 
On both sides , importance seemed attached to this question of relief . 
Riderhood quite petted his reply saying a second time , and prolonging a negative roll of his head , 'n n not a inch sooner , governor . 
'Did I tell you I was going on to night ? asked Bradley . 
'No , governor , returned Riderhood , in a cheerful , affable , and conversational manner , 'you did not tell me so . 
But most like you meant to it and forgot to it . 
How , otherways , could a doubt have come into your head about it , governor ? 'As the sun goes down , I intend to go on , said Bradley . 
'So much the more necessairy is a Peck , returned Riderhood . 
'Come in and have it , T'otherest . 
Both ate and drank , but Riderhood much the more abundantly . 
Bradley Headstone was so remarkably awkward at these exercises , that the Rogue observed it . 
'Look out , T'otherest ! he cried , 'you'll cut your hand ! But , the caution came too late , for Bradley gashed it at the instant . 
And now he did look at Bradley , and with an evil eye . 
'T'otherest ! he said , hoarsely , as he bent across the table to touch his arm . 
'The news has gone down the river afore you . 
'What news ? 'Who do you think , said Riderhood , with a hitch of his head , as if he disdainfully jerked the feint away , 'picked up the body ? Guess . 
'I am not good at guessing anything . 
Hooroar ! You had him there agin . 
The convulsive twitching of Bradley Headstone's face , and the sudden hot humour that broke out upon it , showed how grimly the intelligence touched him . 
But he said not a single word , good or bad . 
He only smiled in a lowering manner , and got up and stood leaning at the window , looking through it . 
Riderhood followed him with his eyes . 
Riderhood cast down his eyes on his own besprinkled clothes . 
Riderhood began to have an air of being better at a guess than Bradley owned to being . 
'I have been so long in want of rest , said the schoolmaster , 'that with your leave I'll lie down again . 
'And welcome , T'otherest ! was the hospitable answer of his host . 
He had laid himself down without waiting for it , and he remained upon the bed until the sun was low . 
When he arose and came out to resume his journey , he found his host waiting for him on the grass by the towing path outside the door . 
'Whenever it may be necessary that you and I should have any further communication together , said Bradley , 'I will come back . 
I'll catch you up in a mile . 
In a word , his real time of relief being that evening at sunset , his mate came lounging in , within a quarter of an hour . 
He was a better follower than Bradley . 
It had been the calling of his life to slink and skulk and dog and waylay , and he knew his calling well . 
His man looked back pretty often as he went , but got no hint of him . 
'What are you up to ? muttered Riderhood , down in the ditch , and holding the hedge a little open with both hands . 
And soon his actions made a most extraordinary reply . 
For a moment it had a suspicious look of suicide , arranged to counterfeit accident . 
'But you wouldn't have fetched a bundle under your arm , from among that timber , if such was your game ! said Riderhood . 
Nevertheless it was a relief to him when the bather after a plunge and a few strokes came out . 
'For I shouldn't , he said in a feeling manner , 'have liked to lose you till I had made more money out of you neither . 
, and holding apart so small a patch of the hedge that the sharpest eyes could not have detected him , Rogue Riderhood watched the bather dressing . 
And now gradually came the wonder that he stood up , completely clothed , another man , and not the Bargeman . 
'Much as you was dressed that night . 
You're a taking me with you , now . 
But I knows a deeper . 
When the bather had finished dressing , he kneeled on the grass , doing something with his hands , and again stood up with his bundle under his arm . 
Looking all around him with great attention , he then went to the river's edge , and flung it in as far , and yet as lightly as he could . 
If I wasn't to go a fishing , others might . 
I'll let you loose this once , and go a fishing ! With that , he suddenly dropped the pursuit and turned . 
The miserable man whom he had released for the time , but not for long , went on towards London . 
And this is another spell against which the shedder of blood for ever strives in vain . 
There are fifty doors by which discovery may enter . 
With infinite pains and cunning , he double locks and bars forty nine of them , and cannot see the fiftieth standing wide open . 
Now , too , was he cursed with a state of mind more wearing and more wearisome than remorse . 
He had no remorse but the evildoer who can hold that avenger at bay , cannot escape the slower torture of incessantly doing the evil deed again and doing it more efficiently . 
In the defensive declarations and pretended confessions of murderers , the pursuing shadow of this torture may be traced through every lie they tell . 
The instrument might have been better , the spot and the hour might have been better chosen . 
Now if it could be done again , it must not be so done . 
Supposing his head had been held down under water for a while . 
Supposing the first blow had been truer . 
Supposing he had been shot . 
Supposing he had been strangled . 
Suppose this way , that way , the other way . 
Suppose anything but getting unchained from the one idea , for that was inexorably impossible . 
The school reopened next day . 
The scholars saw little or no change in their master's face , for it always wore its slowly labouring expression . 
But , as he heard his classes , he was always doing the deed and doing it better . 
He had half a mind to draw a line or two upon the board , and show himself what he meant . 
He was doing it again and improving on the manner , at prayers , in his mental arithmetic , all through his questioning , all through the day . 
Charley Hexam was a master now , in another school , under another head . 
'Yes , Mary Anne ? 'Young Mr Hexam , if you please , ma'am , coming to see Mr Headstone . 
'Very good , Mary Anne . 
Again Mary Anne held up her arm . 
'With all my heart , Mary Anne . 
Again Mary Anne's telegraphic arm worked . 
'What more , Mary Anne ? 'They must find it rather dull and dark , Miss Peecher , for the parlour blind's down , and neither of them pulls it up . 
Charley , entering the dark room , stopped short when he saw his old friend in its yellow shade . 
'Come in , Hexam , come in . 
Charley advanced to take the hand that was held out to him but stopped again , short of it . 
The heavy , bloodshot eyes of the schoolmaster , rising to his face with an effort , met his look of scrutiny . 
Young Hexam standing looking at him , he moistened his lips with his tongue , looked about the room , glanced at his former pupil , and looked down . 
'I heard of the outrage , said Bradley , trying to constrain his working mouth , 'but I had not heard the end of it . 
'Where were you , said the boy , advancing a step as he lowered his voice , 'when it was done ? Stop ! I don't ask that . 
If you force your confidence upon me , Mr Headstone , I'll give up every word of it . 
I'll give up it , and I'll give up you . 
I will ! The wretched creature seemed to suffer acutely under this renunciation . 
A desolate air of utter and complete loneliness fell upon him , like a visible shade . 
'It's for me to speak , not you , said the boy . 
'If you do , you'll do it at your peril . 
He looked at young Hexam as if he were waiting for a scholar to go on with a lesson that he knew by heart and was deadly tired of . 
But he had said his last word to him . 
You know that I took you with me to his chambers in the Temple when I told him my opinion of him , and made myself responsible for my opinion of you . 
As often as young Hexam stopped , he turned his eyes towards him , as if he were waiting for him to go on with the lesson , and get it done . 
As often as the boy resumed , Bradley resumed his fixed face . 
What I mean is this if you were a good master , I was a good pupil . 
I have done you plenty of credit , and in improving my own reputation I have improved yours quite as much . 
You have compromised me by being seen about with me , endeavouring to counteract this Mr Eugene Wrayburn . 
That's the first thing you have done . 
If my character , and my now dropping you , help me out of that , Mr Headstone , the deliverance is to be attributed to me , and not to you . 
No thanks to you for it ! The boy stopping again , he moved his eyes again . 
'I am going on , Mr Headstone , don't you be afraid . 
I am going on to the end , and I have told you beforehand what the end is . 
Now , you know my story . 
You are as well aware as I am , that I have had many disadvantages to leave behind me in life . 
My father died , and then it might have been supposed that my way to respectability was pretty clear . 
No. For then my sister begins . 
He spoke as confidently , and with as entire an absence of any tell tale colour in his cheek , as if there were no softening old time behind him . 
Not wonderful , for there WAS none in his hollow empty heart . 
What is there but self , for selfishness to see behind it ? 'When I speak of my sister , I devoutly wish that you had never seen her , Mr Headstone . 
However , you did see her , and that's useless now . 
I confided in you about her . 
I explained her character to you , and how she interposed some ridiculous fanciful notions in the way of our being as respectable as I tried for . 
You fell in love with her , and I favoured you with all my might . 
She could not be induced to favour you , and so we came into collision with this Mr Eugene Wrayburn . 
The cool conviction with which the boy took up and held his position , could have been derived from no other vice in human nature . 
When he had dried his eyes and heaved a sob over his injuries , he began moving towards the door . 
'However , I have made up my mind that I will become respectable in the scale of society , and that I will not be dragged down by others . 
I have done with my sister as well as with you . 
Since she cares so little for me as to care nothing for undermining my respectability , she shall go her way and I will go mine . 
My prospects are very good , and I mean to follow them alone . 
Mr Headstone , I don't say what you have got upon your conscience , for I don't know . 
Whatever lies upon it , I hope you will see the justice of keeping wide and clear of me , and will find a consolation in completely exonerating all but yourself . 
Rogue Riderhood had been busy with the river that day . 
He had fished with assiduity on the previous evening , but the light was short , and he had fished unsuccessfully . 
He had fished again that day with better luck , and had carried his fish home to Plashwater Weir Mill Lock house , in a bundle . 
Chapter A FEW GRAINS OF PEPPER The dolls' dressmaker went no more to the business premises of Pubsey and Co . 
in St Mary Axe , after chance had disclosed to her the flinty and hypocritical character of Mr Riah . 
She often moralized over her work on the tricks and the manners of that venerable cheat , but made her little purchases elsewhere , and lived a secluded life . 
'I thought it was you ? said Fledgeby , coming up the two steps . 
'Did you ? Miss Wren retorted . 
'And I thought it was you , young man . 
You're not mistaken , and I'm not mistaken . 
How clever we are ! 'Well , and how are you ? said Fledgeby . 
'I am pretty much as usual , sir , replied Miss Wren . 
'A very unfortunate parent , worried out of my life and senses by a very bad child . 
Fledgeby's small eyes opened so wide that they might have passed for ordinary sized eyes , as he stared about him for the very young person whom he supposed to be in question . 
'But you're not a parent , said Miss Wren , 'and consequently it's of no use talking to you upon a family subject . 
To what am I to attribute the honour and favour ? 'To a wish to improve your acquaintance , Mr Fledgeby replied . 
Miss Wren , stopping to bite her thread , looked at him very knowingly . 
'We never meet now , said Fledgeby 'do we ? 'No , said Miss Wren , chopping off the word . 
'So I had a mind , pursued Fledgeby , 'to come and have a talk with you about our dodging friend , the child of Israel . 
'So HE gave you my address did he ? asked Miss Wren . 
'I got it out of him , said Fledgeby , with a stammer . 
'You seem to see a good deal of him , remarked Miss Wren , with shrewd distrust . 
'A good deal of him you seem to see , considering . 
'Yes , I do , said Fledgeby . 
'Haven't you , inquired the dressmaker , bending over the doll on which her art was being exercised , 'done interceding with him yet ? 'No , said Fledgeby , shaking his head . 
'La ! Been interceding with him all this time , and sticking to him still ? said Miss Wren , busy with her work . 
'Sticking to him is the word , said Fledgeby . 
'Navy ? asked Miss Wren . 
'N no , said Fledgeby . 
He qualified these two negatives , as if he were not absolutely in either service , but was almost in both . 
'What are you then ? demanded Miss Wren . 
'I am a gentleman , I am , said Fledgeby . 
'Oh ! assented Jenny , screwing up her mouth with an appearance of conviction . 
'Yes , to be sure ! That accounts for your having so much time to give to interceding . 
'Let's get back to the dodgerest of the dodgers , said he . 
'What's he up to in the case of your friend the handsome gal ? He must have some object . 
What's his object ? 'Cannot undertake to say , sir , I am sure ! returned Miss Wren , composedly . 
'He won't acknowledge where she's gone , said Fledgeby 'and I have a fancy that I should like to have another look at her . 
Now I know he knows where she is gone . 
'Cannot undertake to say , sir , I am sure ! Miss Wren again rejoined . 
'And you know where she is gone , hazarded Fledgeby . 
'Cannot undertake to say , sir , really , replied Miss Wren . 
'Miss Jenny ! Instead of coming up and being dead , let's come out and look alive . 
It'll pay better , I assure you , said Fledgeby , bestowing an inveigling twinkle or two upon the dressmaker . 
'You'll find it pay better . 
You must have another touch of blue in your trimming , my dear . 
'Look here , said Fledgeby . 
'Are you attending ? 'I am attending , sir , replied Miss Wren , without the slightest appearance of so doing . 
'Another touch of blue in your trimming , my dear . 
'Well , look here , said Fledgeby , rather discouraged by the circumstances under which he found himself pursuing the conversation . 
'I say , if you're attending , proceeded Fledgeby , 'it'll pay better in this way . 
It'll lead in a roundabout manner to your buying damage and waste of Pubsey and Co . 
at a nominal price , or even getting it for nothing . 
'Aha ! thought the dressmaker . 
'But you are not so roundabout , Little Eyes , that I don't notice your answering for Pubsey and Co . 
after all ! Little Eyes , Little Eyes , you're too cunning by half . 
'Now , said Fledgeby approvingly , 'you're answering to a sensible purpose . 
You can't come to be intimate with such a deep file as Judah without beginning to see a little way into him , you know , said Fledgeby with a wink . 
'I must own , returned the dressmaker , with her eyes upon her work , 'that we are not good friends at present . 
'I know you're not good friends at present , said Fledgeby . 
'I know all about it . 
I should like to pay off Judah , by not letting him have his own deep way in everything . 
In most things he'll get it by hook or by crook , but hang it all ! don't let him have his own deep way in everything . 
Mr Fledgeby said this with some display of indignant warmth , as if he was counsel in the cause for Virtue . 
'How can I prevent his having his own way ? began the dressmaker . 
'Deep way , I called it , said Fledgeby . 
His own deep way , in anything ? 'I'll tell you , said Fledgeby . 
'I like to hear you ask it , because it's looking alive . 
It's what I should expect to find in one of your sagacious understanding . 
'Eh ? cried Miss Jenny . 
'I said , now candidly , Mr Fledgeby explained , a little put out . 
'Oh h ! 'I should be glad to countermine him , respecting the handsome gal , your friend . 
You may depend upon it , Judah means something there . 
He has a motive , and of course his motive is a dark motive . 
So I put it to you , who know What HAS he done with her ? I ask no more . 
She then briskly resumed her work , and said with a sidelong glance of her eyes and chin at Mr Fledgeby 'Where d'ye live ? 'Albany , Piccadilly , replied Fledgeby . 
'When are you at home ? 'When you like . 
'Breakfast time ? said Jenny , in her abruptest and shortest manner . 
'No better time in the day , said Fledgeby . 
'I'll look in upon you to morrow , young man . 
Those two ladies , pointing to dolls , 'have an appointment in Bond Street at ten precisely . 
When I've dropped 'em there , I'll drive round to you . 
With a weird little laugh , Miss Jenny pointed to her crutch stick as her equipage . 
'This is looking alive indeed ! cried Fledgeby , rising . 
'Mark you ! I promise you nothing , said the dolls' dressmaker , dabbing two dabs at him with her needle , as if she put out both his eyes . 
I understand , returned Fledgeby . 
'The damage and waste question shall be settled first . 
It shall be made to pay don't you be afraid . 
Good day , Miss Jenny . 
'Good day , young man . 
'Misty , misty , misty . 
Little Eyes and the wolf in a conspiracy ? Or Little Eyes and the wolf against one another ? Can't make it out . 
My poor Lizzie , have they both designs against you , either way ? Can't make it out . 
Is Little Eyes Pubsey , and the wolf Co ? Can't make it out . 
Pubsey true to Co , and Co to Pubsey ? Pubsey false to Co , and Co to Pubsey ? Can't make it out . 
What said Little Eyes ? Now , candidly ? Ah ! However the cat jumps , HE'S a liar . 
Moreover it was her habit to shake her head at that wretched old boy whenever she caught his eye as he shivered and shook . 
What was a bad time for Mr Dolls , could not fail to be a bad time for the dolls' dressmaker . 
'You want some one ? said the lady in a stern manner . 
'I am going up stairs to Mr Fledgeby's . 
'You cannot do that at this moment . 
There is a gentleman with him . 
I am waiting for the gentleman . 
His business with Mr Fledgeby will very soon be transacted , and then you can go up . 
Until the gentleman comes down , you must wait here . 
While speaking , and afterwards , the lady kept watchfully between her and the staircase , as if prepared to oppose her going up , by force . 
The lady being of a stature to stop her with a hand , and looking mightily determined , the dressmaker stood still . 
'Well ? Why do you listen ? asked the lady . 
'I am not listening , said the dressmaker . 
'What do you hear ? asked the lady , altering her phrase . 
'Is it a kind of a spluttering somewhere ? said the dressmaker , with an inquiring look . 
'Mr Fledgeby in his shower bath , perhaps , remarked the lady , smiling . 
'And somebody's beating a carpet , I think ? 'Mr Fledgeby's carpet , I dare say , replied the smiling lady . 
Miss Wren had a reasonably good eye for smiles , being well accustomed to them on the part of her young friends , though their smiles mostly ran smaller than in nature . 
But she had never seen so singular a smile as that upon this lady's face . 
It twitched her nostrils open in a remarkable manner , and contracted her lips and eyebrows . 
It was a smile of enjoyment too , though of such a fierce kind that Miss Wren thought she would rather not enjoy herself than do it in that way . 
'Well ! said the lady , watching her . 
'What now ? 'I hope there's nothing the matter ! said the dressmaker . 
'Where ? inquired the lady . 
'I don't know where , said Miss Wren , staring about her . 
'But I never heard such odd noises . 
Don't you think I had better call somebody ? 'I think you had better not , returned the lady with a significant frown , and drawing closer . 
On this hint , the dressmaker relinquished the idea , and stood looking at the lady as hard as the lady looked at her . 
Meanwhile the dressmaker listened with amazement to the odd noises which still continued , and the lady listened too , but with a coolness in which there was no trace of amazement . 
Soon afterwards , came a slamming and banging of doors and then came running down stairs , a gentleman with whiskers , and out of breath , who seemed to be red hot . 
'Is your business done , Alfred ? inquired the lady . 
'Very thoroughly done , replied the gentleman , as he took his hat from her . 
'You can go up to Mr Fledgeby as soon as you like , said the lady , moving haughtily away . 
Be so good as not to forget the name . 
The three pieces of stick were three broken and frayed fragments of a stout lithe cane . 
Miss Jenny taking them wonderingly , and the gentleman repeating with a grin , 'Mr Alfred Lammle , if you'll be so good . 
Compliments , on leaving England , the lady and gentleman walked away quite deliberately , and Miss Jenny and her crutch stick went up stairs . 
No one answered but , from within the chambers , there proceeded a continuous spluttering sound of a highly singular and unintelligible nature . 
'Good gracious ! Is Little Eyes choking ? cried Miss Jenny . 
Pulling at the bell again and getting no reply , she pushed the outer door , and found it standing ajar . 
'Oh Lord ! gasped Mr Fledgeby . 
'Oh my eye ! Stop thief ! I am strangling . 
Fire ! Oh my eye ! A glass of water . 
Give me a glass of water . 
Murder ! Oh Lord ! And then rolled and spluttered more than ever . 
'Oh my eye ! cried Fledgehy , struggling anew . 
It's up my nose , and down my throat , and in my wind pipe . 
'And Oh my Eye , I'm so sore ! cried Fledgeby , starting , over on his back , in a spasmodic way that caused the dressmaker to retreat to the wall . 
'Oh I smart so ! Do put something to my back and arms , and legs and shoulders . 
Ugh ! It's down my throat again and can't come up . 
Ow ! Ow ! Ow ! Ah h h h ! Oh I smart so ! Here Mr Fledgeby bounded up , and bounded down , and went rolling over and over again . 
'What ever possessed you to take salt and snuff , young man ? inquired Miss Jenny . 
'I didn't take it , the dismal youth replied . 
'It was crammed into my mouth . 
'Who crammed it ? asked Miss Jenny . 
'He did , answered Fledgeby . 
'With this ? asked Miss Jenny , showing the pieces of cane . 
'That's the weapon , said Fledgeby , eyeing it with the air of an acquaintance . 
'He broke it over me . 
Oh I smart so ! How did you come by it ? 'When he ran down stairs and joined the lady he had left in the hall with his hat' Miss Jenny began . 
'Oh ! groaned Mr Fledgeby , writhing , 'she was holding his hat , was she ? I might have known she was in it . 
'Shall I go for the police ? inquired Miss Jenny , with a nimble start towards the door . 
'Stop ! No , don't ! cried Fledgeby . 
We had better keep it quiet . 
They must be in an awful state , for I hadn't got my dressing gown on , when the brute came rushing in . 
Cut my shirt away from the collar there's a pair of scissors on that table . 
Oh ! groaned Mr Fledgeby , with his hand to his head again . 
'How I do smart , to be sure ! 'There ? inquired Miss Jenny , alluding to the back and shoulders . 
'Oh Lord , yes ! moaned Fledgeby , rocking himself . 
'And all over ! Everywhere ! The busy little dressmaker quickly snipped the shirt away , and laid bare the results of as furious and sound a thrashing as even Mr Fledgeby merited . 
'You may well smart , young man ! exclaimed Miss Jenny . 
And stealthily rubbed her little hands behind him , and poked a few exultant pokes with her two forefingers over the crown of his head . 
'What do you think of vinegar and brown paper ? inquired the suffering Fledgeby , still rocking and moaning . 
'Does it look as if vinegar and brown paper was the sort of application ? 'Yes , said Miss Jenny , with a silent chuckle . 
'It looks as if it ought to be Pickled . 
Mr Fledgeby collapsed under the word 'Pickled , and groaned again . 
'My kitchen is on this floor , he said 'you'll find brown paper in a dresser drawer there , and a bottle of vinegar on a shelf . 
Would you have the kindness to make a few plasters and put 'em on ? It can't be kept too quiet . 
'One , two hum five , six . 
You'll want six , said the dress maker . 
'There's smart enough , whimpered Mr Fledgeby , groaning and writhing again , 'for sixty . 
Miss Jenny repaired to the kitchen , scissors in hand , found the brown paper and found the vinegar , and skilfully cut out and steeped six large plasters . 
When they were all lying ready on the dresser , an idea occurred to her as she was about to gather them up . 
She then went back to Mr Fledgeby , and stuck them all on him Mr Fledgeby uttering a sharp howl as each was put in its place . 
'There , young man ! said the dolls' dressmaker . 
'Business between you and me being out of the question to day , young man , and my time being precious , said Miss Jenny then , 'I'll make myself scarce . 
Are you comfortable now ? 'Oh my eye ! cried Mr Fledgeby . 
All there was sunny and quiet externally , and shady and quiet internally . 
Hiding herself in the entry outside the glass door , she could see from that post of observation the old man in his spectacles sitting writing at his desk . 
'Boh ! cried the dressmaker , popping in her head at the glass door . 
'Mr Wolf at home ? The old man took his glasses off , and mildly laid them down beside him . 
'Ah Jenny , is it you ? I thought you had given me up . 
'And so I had given up the treacherous wolf of the forest , she replied 'but , godmother , it strikes me you have come back . 
I am not quite sure , because the wolf and you change forms . 
I want to ask you a question or two , to find out whether you are really godmother or really wolf . 
May I ? 'Yes , Jenny , yes . 
But Riah glanced towards the door , as if he thought his principal might appear there , unseasonably . 
'If you're afraid of the fox , said Miss Jenny , 'you may dismiss all present expectations of seeing that animal . 
HE won't show himself abroad , for many a day . 
Therewith Miss Jenny related what had come to pass in the Albany , omitting the few grains of pepper . 
First and foremost , are you Pubsey and Co . 
, or are you either ? Upon your solemn word and honour . 
The old man shook his head . 
'Secondly , isn't Fledgeby both Pubsey and Co . 
? The old man answered with a reluctant nod . 
'My idea , exclaimed Miss Wren , 'is now about the size of an orange . 
But before it gets any bigger , welcome back , dear godmother ! The little creature folded her arms about the old man's neck with great earnestness , and kissed him . 
'I humbly beg your forgiveness , godmother . 
I ought to have had more faith in you . 
I was hateful in mine own eyes . 
I was hateful to myself , in being so hateful to the debtor and to you . 
I reflected clearly reflected for the first time that in bending my neck to the yoke I was willing to wear , I bent the unwilling necks of the whole Jewish people . 
For it is not , in Christian countries , with the Jews as with other peoples . 
Men say , 'This is a bad Greek , but there are good Greeks . 
This is a bad Turk , but there are good Turks . 
Not so with the Jews . 
But doing it as a Jew , I could not choose but compromise the Jews of all conditions and all countries . 
It is a little hard upon us , but it is the truth . 
I would that all our people remembered it ! Though I have little right to say so , seeing that it came home so late to me . 
The dolls' dressmaker sat holding the old man by the hand , and looking thoughtfully in his face . 
'Thus I reflected , I say , sitting that evening in my garden on the housetop . 
This was the result of my having had you three before me , face to face , and seeing the thing visibly presented as upon a theatre . 
Wherefore I perceived that the obligation was upon me to leave this service . 
But Jenny , my dear , said Riah , breaking off , 'I promised that you should pursue your questions , and I obstruct them . 
'I indited a letter to my master . 
'And what said Tingling Tossing Aching Screaming Scratching Smarter ? asked Miss Wren with an unspeakable enjoyment in the utterance of those honourable titles and in the recollection of the pepper . 
'He held me to certain months of servitude , which were his lawful term of notice . 
Upon their expiration not before I had meant to set myself right with my Cinderella . 
'My idea is getting so immense now , cried Miss Wren , clasping her temples , 'that my head won't hold it ! Listen , godmother I am going to expound . 
owes you a heavy grudge for going . 
Little Eyes casts about how best to pay you off . 
Little Eyes thinks of Lizzie . 
Little Eyes says to himself , 'I'll find out where he has placed that girl , and I'll betray his secret because it's dear to him . 
Perhaps Little Eyes thinks , I'll make love to her myself too but that I can't swear all the rest I can . 
So , Little Eyes comes to me , and I go to Little Eyes . 
That's the way of it . 
'Godmother , godmother , godmother ! cried Miss Wren irritably , 'I really lose all patience with you . 
One would think you believed in the Good Samaritan . 
'If your people don't know better than to go and help Little Eyes , it's a pity they ever got out of Egypt . 
Over and above that , she added , 'he wouldn't take your help if you offered it . 
Wants to keep it close and quiet , and to keep you out of the way . 
They were still debating this point when a shadow darkened the entry , and the glass door was opened by a messenger who brought a letter unceremoniously addressed , 'Riah . 
To which he said there was an answer wanted . 
The letter , which was scrawled in pencil uphill and downhill and round crooked corners , ran thus 'OLD RIAH , Your accounts being all squared , go . 
Shut up the place , turn out directly , and send me the key by bearer . 
You are an unthankful dog of a Jew . 
F. The dolls' dressmaker found it delicious to trace the screaming and smarting of Little Eyes in the distorted writing of this epistle . 
while the old man got his few goods together in a black bag . 
That done , the shutters of the upper windows closed , and the office blind pulled down , they issued forth upon the steps with the attendant messenger . 
There , while Miss Jenny held the bag , the old man locked the house door , and handed over the key to him who at once retired with the same . 
'Well , godmother , said Miss Wren , as they remained upon the steps together , looking at one another . 
'And so you're thrown upon the world ! 'It would appear so , Jenny , and somewhat suddenly . 
'Where are you going to seek your fortune ? asked Miss Wren . 
The old man smiled , but looked about him with a look of having lost his way in life , which did not escape the dolls' dressmaker . 
'Verily , Jenny , said he , 'the question is to the purpose , and more easily asked than answered . 
But as I have experience of the ready goodwill and good help of those who have given occupation to Lizzie , I think I will seek them out for myself . 
'On foot ? asked Miss Wren , with a chop . 
'Ay ! said the old man . 
'Have I not my staff ? It was exactly because he had his staff , and presented so quaint an aspect , that she mistrusted his making the journey . 
'The best thing you can do , said Jenny , 'for the time being , at all events , is to come home with me , godmother . 
Nobody's there but my bad child , and Lizzie's lodging stands empty . 
The old man when satisfied that no inconvenience could be entailed on any one by his compliance , readily complied and the singularly assorted couple once more went through the streets together . 
Of dozing women drunkards especially , you shall come upon such specimens there , in the morning sunlight , as you might seek out of doors in vain through London . 
Such stale vapid rejected cabbage leaf and cabbage stalk dress , such damaged orange countenance , such squashed pulp of humanity , are open to the day nowhere else . 
little heard by the Powers that be , whereas in top boots they would make a deafening clatter . 
Hence , when he came out of his invalid retirement and shook off that ragged train , he was much bespattered , and in worse case than ever . 
This application superinduced another fit of the trembles after which Mr Dolls , as finding himself in good cue for making a call on a professional friend , addressed himself to the Temple . 
There was nobody at the chambers but Young Blight . 
Mr Dolls , accepting the shilling , promptly laid it out in two threepennyworths of conspiracy against his life , and two threepennyworths of raging repentance . 
The more the door resisted him , the more dangerous and imminent became that bloody conspiracy against his life . 
Force of police arriving , he recognized in them the conspirators , and laid about him hoarsely , fiercely , staringly , convulsively , foamingly . 
As this machine was borne out at the Temple gate by four men , the poor little dolls' dressmaker and her Jewish friend were coming up the street . 
'Let us see what it is , cried the dressmaker . 
'Let us make haste and look , godmother . 
The brisk little crutch stick was but too brisk . 
'O gentlemen , gentlemen , he belongs to me ! 'Belongs to you ? said the head of the party , stopping it . 
'O yes , dear gentlemen , he's my child , out without leave . 
to the old man for explanation . 
He whispered , as the dolls' dressmaker bent over the exhausted form and vainly tried to extract some sign of recognition from it 'It's her drunken father . 
As the load was put down in the street , Riah drew the head of the party aside , and whispered that he thought the man was dying . 
'No , surely not ? returned the other . 
But he became less confident , on looking , and directed the bearers to 'bring him to the nearest doctor's shop . 
The medical testimony was more precise and more to the purpose than it sometimes is in a Court of Justice . 
'You had better send for something to cover it . 
Therefore , the police sent for something to cover it , and it was covered and borne through the streets , the people falling away . 
After it , went the dolls' dressmaker , hiding her face in the Jewish skirts , and clinging to them with one hand , while with the other she plied her stick . 
Many flaunting dolls had to be gaily dressed , before the money was in the dressmaker's pocket to get mourning for Mr Dolls . 
'If my poor boy , she would say , 'had been brought up better , he might have done better . 
Not that I reproach myself . 
I hope I have no cause for that . 
'None indeed , Jenny , I am very certain . 
It cheers me to hear you say so . 
But you see it is so hard to bring up a child well , when you work , work , work , all day . 
When he was out of employment , I couldn't always keep him near me . 
He got fractious and nervous , and I was obliged to let him go into the streets . 
And he never did well in the streets , he never did well out of sight . 
How often it happens with children ! 'Too often , even in this sad sense ! thought the old man . 
'I had nothing to do but work , and so I worked . 
But my poor unfortunate child could play , and it turned out the worse for him . 
'And not for him alone , Jenny . 
'Well ! I don't know , godmother . 
He suffered heavily , did my unfortunate boy . 
He was very , very ill sometimes . 
And I called him a quantity of names shaking her head over her work , and dropping tears . 
'I don't know that his going wrong was much the worse for me . 
If it ever was , let us forget it . 
'You are a good girl , you are a patient girl . 
'As for patience , she would reply with a shrug , 'not much of that , godmother . 
If I had been patient , I should never have called him names . 
But I hope I did it for his good . 
And besides , I felt my responsibility as a mother , so much . 
I tried reasoning , and reasoning failed . 
I tried coaxing , and coaxing failed . 
I tried scolding and scolding failed . 
But I was bound to try everything , you know , with such a charge upon my hands . 
'And now , said Miss Jenny , 'having knocked off my rosy cheeked young friends , I'll knock off my white cheeked self . 
This referred to her making her own dress , which at last was done . 
And when I return , we'll have a cup of tea , and a chat over future arrangements . 
I see the service in the Prayer book says , that we brought nothing into this world and it is certain we can take nothing out . 
Division , and ceremoniously pretending not to know his intimate acquaintances , as he led the pageant . 
Yet , the spectacle of only one little mourner hobbling after , caused many people to turn their heads with a look of interest . 
Those Furies , the conventionalities , being thus appeased , he left her . 
'I must have a very short cry , godmother , before I cheer up for good , said the little creature , coming in . 
'Because after all a child is a child , you know . 
It was a longer cry than might have been expected . 
Howbeit , it wore itself out in a shadowy corner , and then the dressmaker came forth , and washed her face , and made the tea . 
'You wouldn't mind my cutting out something while we are at tea , would you ? she asked her Jewish friend , with a coaxing air . 
'The truth is , godmother , I want to fix it while I have it correct in my mind . 
'Have you seen it to day then ? asked Riah . 
It's a surplice , that's what it is . 
Thing our clergymen wear , you know , explained Miss Jenny , in consideration of his professing another faith . 
And you know already that I have many extra expenses to meet just now . 
So , it came into my head while I was weeping at my poor boy's grave , that something in my way might be done with a clergyman . 
'What can be done ? asked the old man . 
'Not a funeral , never fear ! returned Miss Jenny , anticipating his objection with a nod . 
'The public don't like to be made melancholy , I know very well . 
I am seldom called upon to put my young friends into mourning not into real mourning , that is Court mourning they are rather proud of . 
Riah went to open it , and presently came back , ushering in , with the grave and courteous air that sat so well upon him , a gentleman . 
'Pardon me , said the gentleman . 
'You are the dolls' dressmaker ? 'I am the dolls' dressmaker , sir . 
'Lizzie Hexam's friend ? 'Yes , sir , replied Miss Jenny , instantly on the defensive . 
'Here is a note from her , entreating you to accede to the request of Mr Mortimer Lightwood , the bearer . 
Mr Riah chances to know that I am Mr Mortimer Lightwood , and will tell you so . 
Riah bent his head in corroboration . 
'Will you read the note ? 'It's very short , said Jenny , with a look of wonder , when she had read it . 
'There was no time to make it longer . 
Time was so very precious . 
My dear friend Mr Eugene Wrayburn is dying . 
The dressmaker clasped her hands , and uttered a little piteous cry . 
'Is dying , repeated Lightwood , with emotion , 'at some distance from here . 
He is sinking under injuries received at the hands of a villain who attacked him in the dark . 
I come straight from his bedside . 
He is almost always insensible . 
In a short restless interval of sensibility , or partial sensibility , I made out that he asked for you to be brought to sit by him . 
Hardly relying on my own interpretation of the indistinct sounds he made , I caused Lizzie to hear them . 
We were both sure that he asked for you . 
The dressmaker , with her hands still clasped , looked affrightedly from the one to the other of her two companions . 
'If you delay , he may die with his request ungratified , with his last wish intrusted to me we have long been much more than brothers unfulfilled . 
I shall break down , if I try to say more . 
Only two days of usage so familiarized the little dressmaker with this scene , that it held the place occupied two days ago by the recollections of years . 
He had scarcely moved since her arrival . 
Sometimes his eyes were open , sometimes closed . 
Then , Mortimer Lightwood would speak to him , and on occasions he would be so far roused as to make an attempt to pronounce his friend's name . 
But , in an instant consciousness was gone again , and no spirit of Eugene was in Eugene's crushed outer form . 
They provided Jenny with materials for plying her work , and she had a little table placed at the foot of his bed . 
Sitting there , with her rich shower of hair falling over the chair back , they hoped she might attract his notice . 
But as yet he had not heeded . 
The 'they' here mentioned were the medical attendant Lizzie , who was there in all her intervals of rest and Lightwood , who never left him . 
The two days became three , and the three days became four . 
At length , quite unexpectedly , he said something in a whisper . 
'What was it , my dear Eugene ? 'Will you , Mortimer 'Will I ? 'Send for her ? 'My dear fellow , she is here . 
Quite unconscious of the long blank , he supposed that they were still speaking together . 
The little dressmaker stood up at the foot of the bed , humming her song , and nodded to him brightly . 
'I can't shake hands , Jenny , said Eugene , with something of his old look 'but I am very glad to see you . 
Mortimer repeated this to her , for it could only be made out by bending over him and closely watching his attempts to say it . 
In a little while , he added 'Ask her if she has seen the children . 
Mortimer could not understand this , neither could Jenny herself , until he added 'Ask her if she has smelt the flowers . 
'Oh ! I know ! cried Jenny . 
'I have not seen them since I saw you . 
I never see them now , but I am hardly ever in pain now . 
'It was a pretty fancy , said Eugene . 
'But I have heard my birds sing , cried the little creature , 'and I have smelt my flowers . 
Yes , indeed I have ! And both were most beautiful and most Divine ! 'Stay and help to nurse me , said Eugene , quietly . 
'I should like you to have the fancy here , before I die . 
She touched his lips with her hand , and shaded her eyes with that same hand as she went back to her work and her little low song . 
He heard the song with evident pleasure , until she allowed it gradually to sink away into silence . 
, and bending over him once more , was about to caution him , when he said 'Don't tell me not to speak , for I must speak . 
What was it ? 'You wanted to tell me something , Eugene . 
'I am not worth it . 
I acknowledge that I like it , dear boy , but I am not worth it . 
This attack , my dear Mortimer this murder His friend leaned over him with renewed attention , saying 'You and I suspect some one . 
But , Mortimer , while I lie here , and when I lie here no longer , I trust to you that the perpetrator is never brought to justice . 
'Eugene ? 'Her innocent reputation would be ruined , my friend . 
She would be punished , not he . 
I have wronged her enough in fact I have wronged her still more in intention . 
You recollect what pavement is said to be made of good intentions . 
It is made of bad intentions too . 
Mortimer , I am lying on it , and I know ! 'Be comforted , my dear Eugene . 
'I will , when you have promised me . 
Dear Mortimer , the man must never be pursued . 
If he should be accused , you must keep him silent and save him . 
Don't think of avenging me think only of hushing the story and protecting her . 
You can confuse the case , and turn aside the circumstances . 
Listen to what I say to you . 
It was not the schoolmaster , Bradley Headstone . 
Do you hear me ? Twice it was not the schoolmaster , Bradley Headstone . 
Do you hear me ? Three times it was not the schoolmaster , Bradley Headstone . 
His speech had been whispered , broken , and indistinct but by a great effort he had made it plain enough to be unmistakeable . 
'Dear fellow , I am wandering away . 
Stay me for another moment , if you can . 
Lightwood lifted his head at the neck , and put a wine glass to his lips . 
'I don't know how long ago it was done , whether weeks , days , or hours . 
There is inquiry on foot , and pursuit . 
Say ! Is there not ? 'Yes . 
'Check it divert it ! Don't let her be brought in question . 
The guilty man , brought to justice , would poison her name . 
Let the guilty man go unpunished . 
Lizzie and my reparation before all ! Promise me ! 'Eugene , I do . 
I promise you ! In the act of turning his eyes gratefully towards his friend , he wandered away . 
His eyes stood still , and settled into that former intent unmeaning stare . 
Hours and hours , days and nights , he remained in this same condition . 
There were times when he would calmly speak to his friend after a long period of unconsciousness , and would say he was better , and would ask for something . 
Before it could he given him , he would be gone again . 
The dolls' dressmaker , all softened compassion now , watched him with an earnestness that never relaxed . 
It was amazing through how many hours at a time she would remain beside him , in a crouching attitude , attentive to his slightest moan . 
the little creature attained an understanding of him that Lightwood did not possess . 
The natural lightness and delicacy of touch which had become very refined by practice in her miniature work , no doubt was involved in this but her perception was at least as fine . 
The one word , Lizzie , he muttered millions of times . 
Equally , when he lay still and staring , he would repeat it for hours without cessation , but then , always in a tone of subdued warning and horror . 
This frequent rising of a drowning man from the deep , to sink again , was dreadful to the beholders . 
But , gradually the change stole upon him that it became dreadful to himself . 
As the man rising from the deep would disappear the sooner for fighting with the water , so he in his desperate struggle went down again . 
One afternoon when he had been lying still , and Lizzie , unrecognized , had just stolen out of the room to pursue her occupation , he uttered Lightwood's name . 
'My dear Eugene , I am here . 
'How long is this to last , Mortimer ? Lightwood shook his head . 
'Still , Eugene , you are no worse than you were . 
'But I know there's no hope . 
Yet I pray it may last long enough for you to do me one last service , and for me to do one last action . 
Keep me here a few moments , Mortimer . 
'Hold me here , dear fellow , if you can . 
I am going ! 'Not yet , not yet . 
Tell me , dear Eugene , what is it I shall do ? 'Keep me here for only a single minute . 
I am going away again . 
Stop me stop me ! 'My poor Eugene , try to be calm . 
If you only knew how hard ! Don't let me wander till I have spoken . 
Give me a little more wine . 
You can leave me with Jenny , while you are gone . 
There's not much for you to do . 
You won't be long away . 
'No , no , no . 
But tell me what it is that I shall do , Eugene ! 'I am going ! You can't hold me . 
'Tell me in a word , Eugene ! His eyes were fixed again , and the only word that came from his lips was the word millions of times repeated . 
Lizzie , Lizzie , Lizzie . 
But , the watchful little dressmaker had been vigilant as ever in her watch , and she now came up and touched Lightwood's arm as he looked down at his friend , despairingly . 
'Hush ! she said , with her finger on her lips . 
He'll be conscious when he next opens them . 
Shall I give you a leading word to say to him ? 'O Jenny , if you could only give me the right word ! 'I can . 
He stooped , and she whispered in his ear . 
She whispered in his ear one short word of a single syllable . 
Lightwood started , and looked at her . 
'Try it , said the little creature , with an excited and exultant face . 
She then bent over the unconscious man , and , for the first time , kissed him on the cheek , and kissed the poor maimed hand that was nearest to her . 
Then , she withdrew to the foot of the bed . 
Some two hours afterwards , Mortimer Lightwood saw his consciousness come back , and instantly , but very tranquilly , bent over him . 
Do no more than look at me , and listen to me . 
You follow what I say . 
He moved his head in assent . 
'I am going on from the point where we broke off . 
Is the word we should soon have come to is it Wife ? 'O God bless you , Mortimer ! 'Hush ! Don't be agitated . 
Hear me , dear Eugene . 
Your mind will be more at peace , lying here , if you make Lizzie your wife . 
You wish me to speak to her , and tell her so , and entreat her to be your wife . 
You ask her to kneel at this bedside and be married to you , that your reparation may be complete . 
Is that so ? 'Yes . 
God bless you ! Yes . 
'It shall be done , Eugene . 
I shall have to go away for some few hours , to give effect to your wishes . 
You see this is unavoidable ? 'Dear friend , I said so . 
But I had not the clue then . 
There was a trace of his whimsical air upon him , as he tried to smile at her . 
'Yes indeed , said Lightwood , 'the discovery was hers . 
A final word before I go . 
This is the right course of a true man , Eugene . 
I am sure of that . 
But I shall not come through it , Mortimer . 
'You will not be the less hopeful or less strong , for this , Eugene . 
Touch my face with yours , in case I should not hold out till you come back . 
I love you , Mortimer . 
Don't be uneasy for me while you are gone . 
If my dear brave girl will take me , I feel persuaded that I shall live long enough to be married , dear fellow . 
Mortimer Lightwood was soon gone . 
As the evening light lengthened the heavy reflections of the trees in the river , another figure came with a soft step into the sick room . 
'Is he conscious ? asked the little dressmaker , as the figure took its station by the pillow . 
For , Jenny had given place to it immediately , and could not see the sufferer's face , in the dark room , from her new and removed position . 
'He is conscious , Jenny , murmured Eugene for himself . 
Whether the Complete British Family Housewife had imparted sage counsel anent them , did not appear , but probably not , as that cloudy oracle was nowhere visible . 
For certain , however , Mrs John Rokesmith stitched at them with so dexterous a hand , that she must have taken lessons of somebody . 
, had been teaching this branch of needlework to Mrs John Rokesmith . 
Placidly , though rather consequentially smiling , she sat stitching away with a regular sound , like a sort of dimpled little charming Dresden china clock by the very best maker . 
A knock at the door , and a ring at the bell . 
Not John or Bella would have flown out to meet him . 
There was something amiss with Mr Lightwood , for he was strangely grave and looked ill . 
He came bearing Lizzie Hexam's earnest hope that Mrs John Rokesmith would see her married . 
Bella was so fluttered by the request , and by the short narrative he had feelingly given her , that there never was a more timely smelling bottle than John's knock . 
'My husband , said Bella 'I'll bring him in . 
'Come up stairs , my darling . 
Bella was amazed by the flush in his face , and by his sudden turning away . 
'What can it mean ? she thought , as she accompanied him up stairs . 
'Now , my life , said John , taking her on his knee , 'tell me all about it . 
All very well to say , 'Tell me all about it but John was very much confused . 
His attention evidently trailed off , now and then , even while Bella told him all about it . 
Yet she knew that he took a great interest in Lizzie and her fortunes . 
What could it mean ? 'You will come to this marriage with me , John dear ? 'N no , my love I can't do that . 
'You can't do that , John ? 'No , my dear , it's quite out of the question . 
Not to be thought of . 
'Am I to go alone , John ? 'No , my dear , you will go with Mr Lightwood . 
'Don't you think it's time we went down to Mr Lightwood , John dear ? Bella insinuated . 
'My darling , it's almost time you went , but I must ask you to excuse me to him altogether . 
'You never mean , John dear , that you are not going to see him ? Why , he knows you have come home . 
'That's a little unfortunate , but it can't be helped . 
Unfortunate or fortunate , I positively cannot see him , my love . 
Bella cast about in her mind what could be his reason for this unaccountable behaviour as she sat on his knee looking at him in astonishment and pouting a little . 
A weak reason presented itself . 
Don't be mysterious , sir . 
What harm do you know of Mr Lightwood ? 'None , my love . 
'What has he ever done to you , John ? 'He has never done anything to me , my dear . 
I know no more against him than I know against Mr Wrayburn he has never done anything to me neither has Mr Wrayburn . 
And yet I have exactly the same objection to both of them . 
'Oh , John ! retorted Bella , as if she were giving him up for a bad job , as she used to give up herself . 
'You are nothing better than a sphinx ! And a married sphinx isn't a isn't a nice confidential husband , said Bella , in a tone of injury . 
'Bella , my life , said John Rokesmith , touching her cheek , with a grave smile , as she cast down her eyes and pouted again 'look at me . 
I want to speak to you . 
'In earnest , Blue Beard of the secret chamber ? asked Bella , clearing her pretty face . 
And I confess to the secret chamber . 
Don't you remember that you asked me not to declare what I thought of your higher qualities until you had been tried ? 'Yes , John dear . 
And I fully meant it , and I fully mean it . 
'The time will come , my darling I am no prophet , but I say so , when you WILL be tried . 
The time will come , I think , when you will undergo a trial through which you will never pass quite triumphantly for me , unless you can put perfect faith in me . 
'Then you may be sure of me , John dear , for I can put perfect faith in you , and I do , and I always , always will . 
Don't judge me by a little thing like this , John . 
In little things , I am a little thing myself I always was . 
If the Golden Dustman's riches had been his to stake , he would have staked them to the last farthing on the fidelity through good and evil of her affectionate and trusting heart . 
'Now , I'll go down to , and go away with , Mr Lightwood , said Bella , springing up . 
you may pack me a little bag for a night , while I get my bonnet on . 
Mr Lightwood's impatience was much relieved when he found her dressed for departure . 
'Mr Rokesmith goes with us ? he said , hesitating , with a look towards the door . 
'Oh , I forgot ! replied Bella . 
'It is curious , observed Lightwood , 'that I have never yet seen Mr Rokesmith , though we have been engaged in the same affairs . 
'Really ? said the unblushing Bella . 
'I begin to think , observed Lightwood , 'that I never shall see him . 
'These things happen so oddly sometimes , said Bella with a steady countenance , 'that there seems a kind of fatality in them . 
But I am quite ready , Mr Lightwood . 
that her enemies were digging pit falls about her , and breaking her with rods of iron . 
Indeed , this old widow discharged herself of that portion of the Morning and Evening Service as if she were lodging a complaint on oath and applying for a warrant before a magistrate . 
, suppressing a strong sense of her comicality by his strong sense of duty , and perfectly knowing that nothing but a cold would come of it . 
, Mrs Milvey on this special occasion resorted to the device of buying her off with a present of tea and sugar , and a loaf and butter . 
These gifts Mrs Sprodgkin accepted , but still insisted on dutifully remaining in the hall , to curtsey to the Reverend Frank as he came forth . 
Having communicated this edifying piece of information , Mrs Sprodgkin was left still unadjourned in the hall , and Mr and Mrs Milvey hurried in a heated condition to the railway station . 
'Detained at the last moment by one who had a claim upon me , was the Reverend Frank's apology to Lightwood , taking no thought of himself . 
To which Mrs Milvey added , taking thought for him , like the championing little wife she was 'Oh yes , detained at the last moment . 
But AS to the claim , Frank , I MUST say that I DO think you are OVER considerate sometimes , and allow THAT to be a LITTLE abused . 
Bella felt conscious , in spite of her late pledge for herself , that her husband's absence would give disagreeable occasion for surprise to the Milveys . 
And if we had ONLY known of his face , we COULD have given him something that would have kept it down long enough for so SHORT a purpose . 
By way of making the white one whiter , Bella hastened to stipulate that he was not in pain . 
Mrs Milvey was SO glad of it . 
'I don't know HOW it is , said Mrs Milvey , 'and I am SURE you don't , Frank , but the clergy and their wives seem to CAUSE swelled faces . 
Whenever I take notice of a child in the school , it seems to me as if its face swelled INSTANTLY . 
Frank NEVER makes acquaintance with a new old woman , but she gets the face ache . 
And another thing is , we DO make the poor children sniff so . 
I don't know HOW we do it , and I should be so glad not to but the MORE we take notice of them , the MORE they sniff . 
Just as they do when the text is given out . 
Frank , that's a schoolmaster . 
I have seen him somewhere . 
The reference was to a young man of reserved appearance , in a coat and waistcoat of black , and pantaloons of pepper and salt . 
He had had a wandering interest in what was said among the people waiting there and passing to and fro . 
He stood with his back towards them , and his gloved hands clasped behind him . 
There was now so evident a faltering upon him , expressive of indecision whether or no he should express his having heard himself referred to , that Mr Milvey spoke to him . 
'I cannot recall your name , he said , 'but I remember to have seen you in your school . 
'My name is Bradley Headstone , sir , he replied , backing into a more retired place . 
'I ought to have remembered it , said Mr Milvey , giving him his hand . 
'I hope you are well ? A little overworked , I am afraid ? 'Yes , I am overworked just at present , sir . 
'Had no play in your last holiday time ? 'No , sir . 
'All work and no play , Mr Headstone , will not make dulness , in your case , I dare say but it will make dyspepsia , if you don't take care . 
'I will endeavour to take care , sir . 
Might I beg leave to speak to you , outside , a moment ? 'By all means . 
It was evening , and the office was well lighted . 
The name of the sister of an old pupil of mine . 
He was my pupil for a long time , and has got on and gone upward rapidly . 
The name of Lizzie Hexam . 
He seemed to be a shy man , struggling against nervousness , and spoke in a very constrained way . 
The break he set between his last two sentences was quite embarrassing to his hearer . 
'Yes , replied Mr Milvey . 
'We are going down to see her . 
'I gathered as much , sir . 
I hope there is nothing amiss with the sister of my old pupil ? I hope no bereavement has befallen her . 
'I am glad to tell you , Mr Headstone , that the sister of your old pupil has not sustained any such loss . 
Then you are not , sir ? A man with a very odd manner indeed , and with a lurking look that was quite oppressive . 
'Not to marry her , myself , said Mr Milvey , with a smile , 'because I have a wife already . 
To perform the marriage service at her wedding . 
Bradley Headstone caught hold of a pillar behind him . 
If Mr Milvey knew an ashy face when he saw it , he saw it then . 
'You are quite ill , Mr Headstone ! 'It is not much , sir . 
It will pass over very soon . 
I am accustomed to be seized with giddiness . 
Don't let me detain you , sir I stand in need of no assistance , I thank you . 
Much obliged by your sparing me these minutes of your time . 
Lightwood had by this time secured their places , and the departure bell was about to be rung . 
They took their seats , and were beginning to move out of the station , when the same attendant came running along the platform , looking into all the carriages . 
'Oh ! You are here , sir ! he said , springing on the step , and holding the window frame by his elbow , as the carriage moved . 
'That person you pointed out to me is in a fit . 
'I infer from what he told me that he is subject to such attacks . 
He will come to , in the air , in a little while . 
He was took very bad to be sure , and was biting and knocking about him furiously . 
The attendant received the card , watched his opportunity for sliding down , slid down , and so it ended . 
At last they saw its dim light shining out , and it gave them hope though Lightwood faltered as he thought 'If he were gone , she would still be sitting by him . 
But he lay quiet , half in stupor , half in sleep . 
Bella , entering with a raised admonitory finger , kissed Lizzie softly , but said not a word . 
Neither did any of them speak , but all sat down at the foot of the bed , silently waiting . 
Her passing through the trial was to make the man she loved with all her heart , triumphant . 
Term not to sink out of sight in Bella's breast . 
Far on in the night , Eugene opened his eyes . 
He was sensible , and said at once 'How does the time go ? Has our Mortimer come back ? Lightwood was there immediately , to answer for himself . 
'Yes , Eugene , and all is ready . 
'Dear boy ! returned Eugene with a smile , 'we both thank you heartily . 
Lizzie , tell them how welcome they are , and that I would be eloquent if I could . 
'There is no need , said Mr Milvey . 
Are you better , Mr Wrayburn ? 'I am much happier , said Eugene . 
Bella thought how different from her own sunny little wedding , and wept . 
Mrs Milvey overflowed with pity , and wept too . 
The dolls' dressmaker , with her hands before her face , wept in her golden bower . 
Reading in a low clear voice , and bending over Eugene , who kept his eyes upon him , Mr Milvey did his office with suitable simplicity . 
As the bridegroom could not move his hand , they touched his fingers with the ring , and so put it on the bride . 
When the two plighted their troth , she laid her hand on his and kept it there . 
'Undraw the curtains , my dear girl , said Eugene , after a while , 'and let us see our wedding day . 
The sun was rising , and his first rays struck into the room , as she came back , and put her lips to his . 
'I bless the day ! said Eugene . 
'I bless the day ! said Lizzie . 
'You have made a poor marriage of it , my sweet wife , said Eugene . 
'A shattered graceless fellow , stretched at his length here , and next to nothing for you when you are a young widow . 
'I have made the marriage that I would have given all the world to dare to hope for , she replied . 
'You have thrown yourself away , said Eugene , shaking his head . 
'But you have followed the treasure of your heart . 
My justification is , that you had thrown that away first , dear girl ! 'No . 
I had given it to you . 
'The same thing , my poor Lizzie ! 'Hush ! hush ! A very different thing . 
There were tears in his eyes , and she besought him to close them . 
'No , said Eugene , again shaking his head 'let me look at you , Lizzie , while I can . 
You brave devoted girl ! You heroine ! Her own eyes filled under his praises . 
And when he mustered strength to move his wounded head a very little way , and lay it on her bosom , the tears of both fell . 
'There ! he exclaimed , smiling . 
The sun was high in the sky , when she gently disengaged herself to give him the stimulants and nourishment he required . 
The utter helplessness of the wreck of him that lay cast ashore there , now alarmed her , but he himself appeared a little more hopeful . 
'Ah , my beloved Lizzie ! he said , faintly . 
'How shall I ever pay all I owe you , if I recover ! 'Don't be ashamed of me , she replied , 'and you will have more than paid all . 
'It would require a life , Lizzie , to pay all more than a life . 
'Live for that , then live for me , Eugene live to see how hard I will try to improve myself , and never to discredit you . 
'My darling girl , he replied , rallying more of his old manner than he had ever yet got together . 
'On the contrary , I have been thinking whether it is not the best thing I can do , to die . 
'The best thing you can do , to leave me with a broken heart ? 'I don't mean that , my dear girl . 
I was not thinking of that . 
What I was thinking of was this . 
Out of your compassion for me , in this maimed and broken state , you make so much of me you think so well of me you love me so dearly . 
'Heaven knows I love you dearly ! 'And Heaven knows I prize it ! Well . 
If I live , you'll find me out . 
But I can't summon the vanity to think so . 
How can I think so , looking back on such a trifiling wasted youth as mine ! I humbly hope it but I daren't believe it . 
It was charming to see Bella contemplating this baby , and finding out her own dimples in that tiny reflection , as if she were looking in the glass without personal vanity . 
The inexhaustible baby was two or three months old , when Bella began to notice a cloud upon her husband's brow . 
Watching it , she saw a gathering and deepening anxiety there , which caused her great disquiet . 
Therefore , Bella at length put in her claim to divide this load , and hear her half of it . 
'You know , John dear , she said , cheerily reverting to their former conversation , 'that I hope I may safely be trusted in great things . 
And it surely cannot be a little thing that causes you so much uneasiness . 
It's very considerate of you to try to hide from me that you are uncomfortable about something , but it's quite impossible to be done , John love . 
'I admit that I am rather uneasy , my own . 
'Then please to tell me what about , sir . 
But no , he evaded that . 
'Never mind ! thought Bella , resolutely . 
'John requires me to put perfect faith in him , and he shall not be disappointed . 
She went up to London one day , to meet him , in order that they might make some purchases . 
She found him waiting for her at her journey's end , and they walked away together through the streets . 
But , by degrees she was led on to confess that she would like to have for the inexhaustible baby such a nursery as never was seen . 
Was there nothing else ? No , John dear . 
The predilections of the inexhaustible baby being provided for , Bella could think of nothing else . 
They were chatting on in this way , and John had suggested , 'No jewels for your own wear , for instance ? and Bella had replied laughing . 
They turned a corner , and met Mr Lightwood . 
He stopped as if he were petrified by the sight of Bella's husband , who in the same moment had changed colour . 
'Mr Lightwood and I have met before , he said . 
'Met before , John ? Bella repeated in a tone of wonder . 
'Mr Lightwood told me he had never seen you . 
'I did not then know that I had , said Lightwood , discomposed on her account . 
I believed that I had only heard of Mr Rokesmith . 
With an emphasis on the name . 
'When Mr Lightwood saw me , my love , observed her husband , not avoiding his eye , but looking at him , 'my name was Julius Handford . 
took great pains to trace him out . 
But it was not my object or my interest , said Rokesmith , quietly , 'to be traced out . 
Bella looked from the one to the other , in amazement . 
'Sir' returned Lightwood , with a meaning glance towards Bella , 'my position is a truly painful one . 
I hope that no complicity in a very dark transaction may attach to you , but you cannot fail to know that your own extraordinary conduct has laid you under suspicion . 
'I know it has , was all the reply . 
Bella caught her husband by the hand . 
'Don't be alarmed , my darling . 
Mr Lightwood will find that he is quite justified in taking leave of me here . 
At all events , added Rokesmith , 'he will find that I mean to take leave of him here . 
'Mr Lightwood , I assure you I have no disposition to deny it , or intention to deny it . 
I should have continued to avoid you , in pursuance of the same set purpose , for a short time longer , if we had not met now . 
I am going straight home , and shall remain at home to morrow until noon . 
Hereafter , I hope we may be better acquainted . 
Lightwood stood irresolute , but Bella's husband passed him in the steadiest manner , with Bella on his arm and they went home without encountering any further remonstrance or molestation from any one . 
'but I wait until you can tell me of your own free will . 
You asked me if I could have perfect faith in you , and I said yes , and I meant it . 
It did not escape Bella's notice that he began to look triumphant . 
She wanted no strengthening in her firmness but if she had had need of any , she would have derived it from his kindling face . 
'You cannot have been prepared , my dearest , for such a discovery as that this mysterious Mr Handford was identical with your husband ? 'No , John dear , of course not . 
But you told me to prepare to be tried , and I prepared myself . 
He drew her to nestle closer to him , and told her it would soon be over , and the truth would soon appear . 
'And now , he went on , 'lay stress , my dear , on these words that I am going to add . 
I stand in no kind of peril , and I can by possibility be hurt at no one's hand . 
'You are quite , quite sure of that , John dear ? 'Not a hair of my head ! Moreover , I have done no wrong , and have injured no man . 
Shall I swear it ? 'No , John ! cried Bella , laying her hand upon his lips , with a proud look . 
'Never to me ! 'But circumstances , he went on I can , and I will , disperse them in a moment have surrounded me with one of the strangest suspicions ever known . 
You heard Mr Lightwood speak of a dark transaction ? 'Yes , John . 
'You are prepared to hear explicitly what he meant ? 'Yes , John . 
'My life , he meant the murder of John Harmon , your allotted husband . 
With a fast palpitating heart , Bella grasped him by the arm . 
'How dare they ! she cried at length , in a burst of generous indignation . 
'My beloved husband , how dare they ! He caught her in his arms as she opened hers , and held her to his heart . 
'Even knowing this , you can trust me , Bella ? 'I can trust you , John dear , with all my soul . 
If I could not trust you , I should fall dead at your feet . 
A twilight calm of happiness then succeeding to their radiant noon , they remained at peace , until a strange voice in the room startled them both . 
The hand and the match and the voice were then seen by John Rokesmith to belong to Mr Inspector , once meditatively active in this chronicle . 
Would the lady object to my lighting the pair of candles on the chimneypiece , to throw a further light upon the subject ? No ? Thank you , ma'am . 
Now , we look cheerful . 
'You favoured me , Mr Handford , said Mr Inspector , 'by writing down your name and address , and I produce the piece of paper on which you wrote it . 
From her husband on her birthday and very gratifying to the feelings such memorials are to correspond exactly . 
Can I have a word with you ? 'Certainly . 
Here , if you please , was the reply . 
And bowed , with gallantry . 
'Mrs Rokesmith , resumed her husband , 'is satisfied that she can have no reason for being alarmed , whatever the business is . 
'Really ? Is that so ? said Mr Inspector . 
'But it's a sex to live and learn from , and there's nothing a lady can't accomplish when she once fully gives her mind to it . 
It's the case with my own wife . 
Well , ma'am , this good gentleman of yours has given rise to a rather large amount of trouble which might have been avoided if he had come forward and explained himself . 
Well you see ! He DIDN'T come forward and explain himself . 
When Mr Inspector put it in that other form , 'to come along with me , there was a relishing roll in his voice , and his eye beamed with an official lustre . 
'Do you propose to take me into custody ? inquired John Rokesmith , very coolly . 
I don't say whether before , or in , or after , the fact . 
I don't say whether with having some knowledge of it that hasn't come out . 
I foresaw your visit this afternoon . 
'Don't ! said Mr Inspector . 
'Why , why argue ? It's my duty to inform you that whatever you say , will be used against you . 
'I don't think it will . 
'But I tell you it will , said Mr Inspector . 
'Now , having received the caution , do you still say that you foresaw my visit this afternoon ? 'Yes . 
And I will say something more , if you will step with me into the next room . 
, took up a candle , and withdrew with that gentleman . 
They were a full half hour in conference . 
When they returned , Mr Inspector looked considerably astonished . 
'I have invited this worthy officer , my dear , said John , 'to make a short excursion with me in which you shall be a sharer . 
He will take something to eat and drink , I dare say , on your invitation , while you are getting your bonnet on . 
Mr Inspector declined eating , but assented to the proposal of a glass of brandy and water . 
But what a certainty was that ! They alighted at last at the corner of a court , where there was a building with a bright lamp and wicket gate . 
Its orderly appearance was very unlike that of the surrounding neighbourhood , and was explained by the inscription POLICE STATION . 
'We are not going in here , John ? said Bella , clinging to him . 
'Yes , my dear but of our own accord . 
We shall come out again as easily , never fear . 
The sanctuary was not a permanent abiding place , but a kind of criminal Pickford's . 
The lower passions and vices were regularly ticked off in the books , warehoused in the cells , carted away as per accompanying invoice , and left little mark upon it . 
, who , judged only by his occupation at the moment , might have been a writing master , setting copies . 
Their conference done , Mr Inspector returned to the fireplace , and , having observed that he would step round to the Fellowships and see how matters stood , went out . 
He soon came back again , saying , 'Nothing could be better , for they're at supper with Miss Abbey in the bar and then they all three went out together . 
The room was lighted for their reception . 
'Now , said Mr Inspector to John , turning the gas lower 'I'll mix with 'em in a casual way , and when I say Identification , perhaps you'll show yourself . 
John nodded , and Mr Inspector went alone to the half door of the bar . 
The three persons were Miss Abbey and two male guests . 
To whom collectively , Mr Inspector remarked that the weather was getting sharp for the time of year . 
'It need be sharp to suit your wits , sir , said Miss Abbey . 
'What have you got in hand now ? 'Thanking you for your compliment not much , Miss Abbey , was Mr Inspector's rejoinder . 
'Who have you got in Cosy ? asked Miss Abbey . 
'Only a gentleman and his wife , Miss . 
'They are strangers in this part of the town , Miss Abbey . 
They are waiting till I shall want the gentleman to show himself somewhere , for half a moment . 
'I don't take my supper till later in the night , said he , 'and therefore I won't disturb the compactness of the table . 
But I'll take a glass of flip , if that's flip in the jug in the fender . 
'That's flip , replied Miss Abbey , 'and it's my making , and if even you can find out better , I shall be glad to know where . 
'Ah h ! cried Mr Inspector . 
'That's the smack ! There's not a Detective in the Force , Miss Abbey , that could find out better stuff than that . 
'Glad to hear you say so , rejoined Miss Abbey . 
'You ought to know , if anybody does . 
'Mr Job Potterson , Mr Inspector continued , 'I drink your health . 
Mr Jacob Kibble , I drink yours . 
Hope you have made a prosperous voyage home , gentlemen both . 
Mr Kibble , an unctuous broad man of few words and many mouthfuls , said , more briefly than pointedly , raising his ale to his lips 'Same to you . 
Mr Job Potterson , a semi seafaring man of obliging demeanour , said , 'Thank you , sir . 
'Lord bless my soul and body ! cried Mr Inspector . 
And as for stewarding , I think it's time my brother gave that up , and took his House in hand on his sister's retiring . 
The House will go to pieces if he don't . 
I wouldn't sell it for any money that could be told out , to a person that I couldn't depend upon to be a Law to the Porters , as I have been . 
'There you're right , Miss , said Mr Inspector . 
'A better kept house is not known to our men . 
What do I say ? Half so well a kept house is not known to our men . 
Show the Force the Six Jolly Fellowship Porters , and the Force to a constable will show you a piece of perfection , Mr Kibble . 
That gentleman , with a very serious shake of his head , subscribed the article . 
'why , well you may . 
, and shut the door of the little room . 
A hurry of voices succeeded , in which Mr Inspector's voice was busiest it gradually slackened and sank and Mr Inspector reappeared . 
'Sharp's the word , sir ! he said , looking in with a knowing wink . 
'We'll get your lady out at once . 
Immediately , Bella and her husband were under the stars , making their way back , alone , to the vehicle they had kept in waiting . 
All this was most extraordinary , and Bella could make nothing of it but that John was in the right . 
How in the right , and how suspected of being in the wrong , she could not divine . 
But John was triumphant that much was made apparent and she could wait for the rest . 
I have left the China House . 
As he seemed to like having left it , Bella took it for granted that there was no misfortune in the case . 
'In a word , my love , said John , 'the China House is broken up and abolished . 
There is no such thing any more . 
'Then , are you already in another House , John ? 'Yes , my darling . 
I am in another way of business . 
And I am rather better off . 
'The reason why I said afraid , returned John , 'is , because we must move . 
'O John ! 'Yes , my dear , we must move . 
We must have our head quarters in London now . 
In short , there's a dwelling house rent free , attached to my new position , and we must occupy it . 
'That's a gain , John . 
'Yes , my dear , it is undoubtedly a gain . 
He gave her a very blithe look , and a very sly look . 
A very innocent remark , surely . 
'I won't , said the inexhaustible baby , allow you to make game of my venerable Ma . 
At each division administering a soft facer with one of the speckled fists . 
, he did propose that they should move very soon . 
Taking the furniture with them , of course ? . 
, the fact was , that the house was in a sort of a kind of a way furnished already . 
The inexhaustible baby , hearing this , resumed the offensive , and said 'But there's no nursery for me , sir . 
'I felt that to be the question , he returned , 'and therefore I arranged that you should come with me and look at it , to morrow morning . 
Appointment made , accordingly , for Bella to go up with him to morrow morning John kissed and Bella delighted . 
When they reached London in pursuance of their little plan , they took coach and drove westward . 
Not only drove westward , but drove into that particular westward division , which Bella had seen last when she turned her face from Mr Boffin's door . 
Not only drove into that particular division , but drove at last into that very street . 
Not only drove into that very street , but stopped at last at that very house . 
'John dear ! cried Bella , looking out of window in a flutter . 
'Do you see where we are ? 'Yes , my love . 
The house door was opened without any knocking or ringing , and John promptly helped her out . 
The servant who stood holding the door , asked no question of John , neither did he go before them or follow them as they went straight up stairs . 
It was only her husband's encircling arm , urging her on , that prevented Bella from stopping at the foot of the staircase . 
As they ascended , it was seen to be tastefully ornamented with most beautiful flowers . 
'O John ! said Bella , faintly . 
'What does this mean ? 'Nothing , my darling , nothing . 
'O my dear John ! said Bella . 
'What does this mean ? 'Nothing , my darling , nothing . 
They went on , until they came to a door . 
As John put out his hand to open it , Bella caught his hand . 
'I don't know what it means , but it's too much for me . 
Hold me , John , love . 
John caught her up in his arm , and lightly dashed into the room with her . 
'Old lady , old lady , said Mr Boffin , at length 'if you don't begin somebody else must . 
'I'm a going to begin , Noddy , my dear , returned Mrs Boffin . 
'Only it isn't easy for a person to know where to begin , when a person is in this state of delight and happiness . 
Tell me , who's this ? 'Who is this ? repeated Bella . 
'Ah ! But tell me his name , deary ! cried Mrs Boffin . 
'No , it ain't ! cried Mrs Boffin , clapping her hands , and shaking her head . 
'Not a bit of it . 
'Handford then , suggested Bella . 
'No , it ain't ! cried Mrs Boffin , again clapping her hands and shaking her head . 
'Not a bit of it . 
'At least , his name is John , I suppose ? said Bella . 
'Ah ! I should think so , deary ! cried Mrs Boffin . 
'I should hope so ! Many and many is the time I have called him by his name of John . 
But what's his other name , his true other name ? Give a guess , my pretty ! 'I can't guess , said Bella , turning her pale face from one to another . 
'I could , cried Mrs Boffin , 'and what's more , I did ! I found him out , all in a flash as I may say , one night . 
Didn't I , Noddy ? 'Ay ! That the old lady did ! said Mr Boffin , with stout pride in the circumstance . 
'Harkee to me , deary , pursued Mrs Boffin , taking Bella's hands between her own , and gently beating on them from time to time . 
'It was after a particular night when John had been disappointed as he thought in his affections . 
It was after a night when John had made an offer to a certain young lady , and the certain young lady had refused it . 
It was after a particular night , when he felt himself cast away like , and had made up his mind to go seek his fortune . 
It was the very next night . 
My Noddy wanted a paper out of his Secretary's room , and I says to Noddy , I am going by the door , and I'll ask him for it . 
I tapped at his door , and he didn't hear me . 
I looked in , and saw him a sitting lonely by his fire , brooding over it . 
Why not possible , deary , when so many things are possible ? demanded Mrs Boffin , in a soothing tone . 
'He was killed , gasped Bella . 
'Thought to be , said Mrs Boffin . 
'But if ever John Harmon drew the breath of life on earth , that is certainly John Harmon's arm round your waist now , my pretty . 
If ever John Harmon had a wife on earth , that wife is certainly you . 
If ever John Harmon and his wife had a child on earth , that child is certainly this . 
By a master stroke of secret arrangement , the inexhaustible baby here appeared at the door , suspended in mid air by invisible agency . 
'took it out of' the Inexhaustible in a shower of caresses . 
It was only this timely appearance that kept Bella from swooning . 
'But bless ye , my beauty ! cried Mrs Boflin , taking him up short at this point , with another hearty clap of her hands . 
'It wasn't John only that was in it . 
We was all of us in it . 
'I don't , said Bella , looking vacantly from one to another , 'yet understand 'Of course you don't , my deary , exclaimed Mrs Boffin . 
'How can you till you're told ! So now I am a going to tell you . 
Now , I'm a going to tell the story . 
Once , twice , three times , and the horses is off . 
'That's a very good arrangement , cried Mrs Boffin . 
'Keep it there , John . 
And as we was all of us in it , Noddy you come and lay yours a top of his , and we won't break the pile till the story's done . 
Mr Boffin hitched up a chair , and added his broad brown right hand to the heap . 
'That's capital ! said Mrs Boffin , giving it a kiss . 
'Seems quite a family building don't it ? But the horses is off . 
This brings me round comfortable , and that brings him round comfortable , and then John and him and me we all fall a crying for joy . 
'Yes ! They cry for joy , my darling , her husband struck in . 
'That's right , my dear , don't you mind him , said Mrs Boffin , 'stick to me . 
Well ! Then we sits down , gradually gets cool , and holds a confabulation . 
At which you never see a man so frightened as my Noddy was . 
'And you too , said Mr Boffin . 
'Don't you mind him , neither , my deary , resumed Mrs Boffin 'stick to me . 
This brings up a confabulation regarding the certain fair young person when Noddy he gives it as his opinion that she is a deary creetur . 
'So did you , said Mr Boffin . 
'Don't you mind him a single morsel , my dear , proceeded Mrs Boffin , 'but stick to me . 
But , he was sitting thoughtfully smiling at that broad brown hand of his , and either didn't see it , or would take no notice of it . 
Prove it , John ! we says , repeated Mrs Boffin . 
Prove it and overcome your doubts with triumph , and be happy for the first time in your life , and for the rest of your life . 
This puts John in a state , to be sure . 
'From the first , you was always a special favourite of Noddy's , said Mrs Boffin , shaking her head . 
'O you were ! And if I had been inclined to be jealous , I don't know what I mightn't have done to you . 
But as I wasn't why , my beauty , with a hearty laugh and an embrace , 'I made you a special favourite of my own too . 
But the horses is coming round the corner . 
And then he began ! cried Mrs Boffin , in an ecstacy of admiration . 
'Lord bless you , then he began ! And how he DID begin didn't he ! Bella looked half frightened , and yet half laughed . 
But every night he says to me Better and better , old lady . 
What did we say of her ? She'll come through it , the true golden gold . 
This'll be the happiest piece of work we ever done . 
Mr Boffin , with his face bent over his heavy hand , made no sound , but rolled his shoulders when thus referred to , as if he were vastly enjoying himself . 
No , he says , she's so unselfish and contented , that I can't afford to be rich yet . 
I must wait a little longer . 
Then , when baby was expected , he says , She is such a cheerful , glorious housewife that I can't afford to be rich yet . 
I must wait a little longer . 
Then when baby was born , he says , She is so much better than she ever was , that I can't afford to be rich yet . 
I must wait a little longer . 
'But IS the story done ? said Bella , pondering . 
'Is there no more of it ? 'What more of it should there be , deary ? returned Mrs Boffin , full of glee . 
'Are you sure you have left nothing out of it ? asked Bella . 
'I don't think I have , said Mrs Boffin , archly . 
than any of them ! Please something more ! cried Bella , with an exultant ringing laugh as she struggled with him and forced him to turn his delighted face to hers . 
'Please I have found out something not yet mentioned . 
'O , I understand you now , sir ! cried Bella . 
'I want neither you nor any one else to tell me the rest of the story . 
I can tell it to YOU , now , if you would like to hear it . 
'Can you , my dear ? said Mr Boffin . 
'What ? cried Bella , holding him prisoner by the coat with both hands . 
That was what you said to yourself , was it , sir ? 'I never said anything of the sort , Mr Boffin declared in a state of the highest enjoyment . 
'Then you ought to have said it , sir , returned Bella , giving him two pulls and one kiss , 'for you must have thought and meant it . 
Confess instantly ! 'John , said Mr Boffin , one broad piece of sunshine from head to foot , 'I wish you'd help me out of this . 
'You can't be heard by counsel , sir , returned Bella . 
'You must speak for yourself . 
And I did hope it might just hint a caution . 
was read aloud to me by that person of the name of Silas Wegg aforesaid . 
'Still , said Bella , after this meditative pause , 'there remain two things that I cannot understand . 
Mrs Boffin never supposed any part of the change in Mr Boffin to be real did she ? You never did did you ? asked Bella , turning to her . 
'No ! returned Mrs Boffin , with a most rotund and glowing negative . 
'And yet you took it very much to heart , said Bella . 
'I remember its making you very uneasy , indeed . 
'Ecod , you see Mrs John has a sharp eye , John ! cried Mr Boffin , shaking his head with an admiring air . 
'You're right , my dear . 
The old lady nearly blowed us into shivers and smithers , many times . 
My dear , the old lady thinks so high of me that she couldn't abear to see and hear me coming out as a reg'lar brown one . 
Couldn't abear to make believe as I meant it ! In consequence of which , we was everlastingly in danger with her . 
Mrs Boffin laughed heartily at herself but a certain glistening in her honest eyes revealed that she was by no means cured of that dangerous propensity . 
'Never thought of it afore the moment , my dear ! he observed to Bella . 
I couldn't tell you how it come into my head or where from , but it had so much the sound of a rasper that I own to you it astonished myself . 
'O yes ! cried Bella , covering her face with her hands 'but that I never shall be able to understand as long as I live . 
But I am very very grateful . 
in behalf of his deception , and to tell her , over and over again , that it had been prolonged by her own winning graces in her supposed station of life . 
occupying the middle station , and Mr Boffin bringing up the rear . 
'Come and look in , Noddy ! said Mrs Boffin to Mr Boffin . 
'It looks as if the old man's spirit had found rest at last don't it ? said Mrs Boffin . 
'And it makes a pretty and a promising picter don't it ? 'Yes , old lady . 
But , aware at the instant of a fine opening for a point , Mr Boffin quenched that observation in this delivered in the grisliest growling of the regular brown bear . 
'A pretty and a hopeful picter ? Mew , Quack quack , Bow wow ! And then trotted silently downstairs , with his shoulders in a state of the liveliest commotion . 
Over the whole slow process of levelling the Mounds , Silas had kept watch with rapacious eyes . 
But , eyes no less rapacious had watched the growth of the Mounds in years bygone , and had vigilantly sifted the dust of which they were composed . 
A foreman representative of the dust contractors , purchasers of the Mounds , had worn Mr Wegg down to skin and bone . 
However , Wegg's comfort was , that all his disagreeables were now over , and that he was immediately coming into his property . 
Of late , the grindstone did undoubtedly appear to have been whirling at his own nose rather than Boffin's , but Boffin's nose was now to be sharpened fine . 
Thus far , Mr Wegg had let his dusty friend off lightly , having been baulked in that amiable design of frequently dining with him , by the machinations of the sleepless dustman . 
He had been constrained to depute Mr Venus to keep their dusty friend , Boffin , under inspection , while he himself turned lank and lean at the Bower . 
To Mr Venus's museum Mr Wegg repaired when at length the Mounds were down and gone . 
It being evening , he found that gentleman , as he expected , seated over his fire but did not find him , as he expected , floating his powerful mind in tea . 
'Why , you smell rather comfortable here ! said Wegg , seeming to take it ill , and stopping and sniffing as he entered . 
'I AM rather comfortable , sir , said Venus . 
'You don't use lemon in your business , do you ? asked Wegg , sniffing again . 
'No , Mr Wegg , said Venus . 
'When I use it at all , I mostly use it in cobblers' punch . 
'What do you call cobblers' punch ? demanded Wegg , in a worse humour than before . 
But the groundwork is gin . 
'In a Dutch bottle ? said Wegg gloomily , as he sat himself down . 
'Very good , sir , very good ! cried Venus . 
'Will you partake , sir ? 'Will I partake ? returned Wegg very surlily . 
You don't seem in your usual spirits . 
'If you come to that , you don't seem in your usual spirits , growled Wegg . 
'You seem to be setting up for lively . 
This circumstance appeared , in his then state of mind , to give Mr Wegg uncommon offence . 
'And you've been having your hair cut ! said Wegg , missing the usual dusty shock . 
But don't let that put you out , either . 
'And I am blest if you ain't getting fat ! said Wegg , with culminating discontent . 
'I don't want to guess , retorted Wegg . 
'All I've got to say is , that it's well for you that the diwision of labour has been what it has been . 
It's well for you to have had so light a part in this business , when mine has been so heavy . 
You haven't had YOUR rest broke , I'll be bound . 
'Not at all , sir , said Venus . 
'Never rested so well in all my life , I thank you . 
'Ah ! grumbled Wegg , 'you should have been me . 
'Certainly , it has trained you down , Mr Wegg , said Venus , contemplating his figure with an artist's eye . 
'Why , you've been having the place cleaned up ! he exclaimed . 
By the hand of adorable woman . 
'Then what you're going to do next , I suppose , is to get married ? 'That's it , sir . 
'The lady in question is not a old party . 
There are strings that must not be played upon . 
No sir ! Not sounded , unless in the most respectful and tuneful manner . 
Of such melodious strings is Miss Pleasant Riderhood formed . 
'Then it IS the lady as formerly objected ? said Wegg . 
'Sir , returned Venus with dignity , 'I accept the altered phrase . 
It is the lady as formerly objected . 
'When is it to come off ? asked Silas . 
'Mr Wegg , said Venus , with another flush . 
'I cannot permit it to be put in the form of a Fight . 
I must temperately but firmly call upon you , sir , to amend that question . 
The lady is a going to give her 'and where she has already given her 'art , next Monday . 
'Then the lady's objection has been met ? said Silas . 
'Mr Wegg , said Venus , 'as I did name to you , I think , on a former occasion , if not on former occasions 'On former occasions , interrupted Wegg . 
It was a happy thought , sir , and it took root . 
'However , said Wegg , after eyeing him with another touch of distrust , 'I wish you joy . 
One man spends his fortune in one way , and another in another . 
You are going to try matrimony . 
I mean to try travelling . 
The tough job being ended and the Mounds laid low , the hour is come for Boffin to stump up . 
Would ten to morrow morning suit you , partner , for finally bringing Boffin's nose to the grindstone ? Ten to morrow morning would quite suit Mr Venus for that excellent purpose . 
'You have had him well under inspection , I hope ? said Silas . 
Mr Venus had had him under inspection pretty well every day . 
, let's have a look at the stock in trade . 
the partners separated for the night . 
It was a very bad night to which succeeded a very bad morning . 
Venus was punctual , and Wegg undertook to knock at the door , and conduct the conference . 
'Boffin at home ? The servant replied that MR Boffin was at home . 
'He'll do , said Wegg , 'though it ain't what I call him . 
The servant inquired if they had any appointment ? 'Now , I tell you what , young fellow , said Wegg , 'I won't have it . 
This won't do for me . 
'Be careful what insolent liberties you take in that gentleman's presence , said the owner of the hand which had done this , 'or I will throw you after it . 
Wegg involuntarily clapped his hand to his bare head , and stared at the Secretary . 
For , it was he addressed him with a severe countenance , and who had come in quietly by the folding doors . 
'Oh ! said Wegg , as soon as he recovered his suspended power of speech . 
'Very good ! I gave directions for YOU to be dismissed . 
And you ain't gone , ain't you ? Oh ! We'll look into this presently . 
Very good ! 'No , nor I ain't gone , said another voice . 
Somebody else had come in quietly by the folding doors . 
Turning his head , Wegg beheld his persecutor , the ever wakeful dustman , accoutred with fantail hat and velveteen smalls complete . 
Who , untying his tied up broken head , revealed a head that was whole , and a face that was Sloppy's . 
'Ha , ha , ha , gentlemen ! roared Sloppy in a peal of laughter , and with immeasureable relish . 
'Oh ! said Wegg , slightly discomfited , but not much as yet 'one and one is two not dismissed , is it ? Bof fin ! Just let me ask a question . 
Who set this chap on , in this dress , when the carting began ? Who employed this fellow ? 'I say ! remonstrated Sloppy , jerking his head forward . 
'No fellows , or I'll throw you out of winder ! Mr Boffin appeased him with a wave of his hand , and said 'I employed him , Wegg . 
'Oh ! You employed him , Boffin ? Very good . 
Mr Venus , we raise our terms , and we can't do better than proceed to business . 
Bof fin ! I want the room cleared of these two scum . 
'Bof fin ! Not going to be done ? repeated Wegg . 
'Not at your peril ? 'No , Wegg , said Mr Boffin , shaking his head good humouredly . 
'Not at my peril , and not on any other terms . 
Silas Wegg , you are a precious old rascal . 
Mr Wegg , who , as if anticipating a compliment , had been beating time with the paper to the other's politeness until this unexpected conclusion came upon him , stopped rather abruptly . 
'Silas Wegg , said Venus , 'know that I took the liberty of taking Mr Boffin into our concern as a sleeping partner , at a very early period of our firm's existence . 
'Quite true , added Mr Boffin 'and I tested Venus by making him a pretended proposal or two and I found him on the whole a very honest man , Wegg . 
But I hope I made early and full amends . 
'Venus , you did , said Mr Boffin . 
'Certainly , certainly , certainly . 
Venus inclined his head with respect and gratitude . 
I am much obliged to you , sir , for all . 
To whom , when thus making mention of him , he also bowed . 
'Everything else between you and me , Mr Wegg , said Venus , 'now explains itself , and you can now make out , sir , without further words from me . 
I have thought it over , I can tell you . 
You may go , and welcome . 
You leave the more for me . 
Because , you know , said Wegg , dividing his next observation between Mr Boffin and Mr Harmon , 'I am worth my price , and I mean to have it . 
I am here to be bought off , and I have named my figure . 
Now , buy me , or leave me . 
'I'll leave you , Wegg , said Mr Boffin , laughing , 'as far as I am concerned . 
'Bof fin ! replied Wegg , turning upon him with a severe air , 'I understand YOUR new born boldness . 
I see the brass underneath YOUR silver plating . 
YOU have got YOUR nose out of joint . 
Knowing that you've nothing at stake , you can afford to come the independent game . 
Why , you're just so much smeary glass to see through , you know ! But Mr Harmon is in another sitiwation . 
What Mr Harmon risks , is quite another pair of shoes . 
, leaving the whole of his property to the Crown , said John Harmon , with as much indifference as was compatible with extreme sternness . 
'Bight you are ! cried Wegg . 
'You scoundrel ! said John Harmon , whose seafaring hold was like that of a vice . 
'You're knocking my head against the wall , urged Silas faintly . 
Listen , you scoundrel , and look at that Dutch bottle . 
Sloppy held it up , for his edification . 
'That Dutch bottle , scoundrel , contained the latest will of the many wills made by my unhappy self tormenting father . 
That Dutch bottle was found by my noble benefactor and yours , after he entered on possession of the estate . 
I urged upon him the necessity of its being dug up , and the paper being legally produced and established . 
The first thing you saw him do , and the second thing has been done without your knowledge . 
, for nobody had thought of looking into that place . 
That's the first short speech , do you understand ? Here , John Harmon assisted his comprehension with another shake . 
'Now , scoundrel , he pursued , 'I am going to finish . 
You supposed me just now , to be the possessor of my father's property . 
But through any act of my father's , or by any right I have ? No. Through the munificence of Mr Boffin . 
of Mr and Mrs Boffin . 
But I shouldn't like to leave you , after all said and done , worse off in life than I found you . 
Therefore say in a word , before we part , what it'll cost to set you up in another stall . 
'And in another place , John Harmon struck in . 
'You don't come outside these windows . 
'Then they can't be paid for , said John Harmon , 'and you had better not try , my dear sir . 
I had a very choice collection of ballads , and there was a new stock of gingerbread in the tin box . 
I say no more , but would rather leave it to you . 
But I would not wish to be deemed covetous , and I would rather leave it to you , Mr Boffin . 
'Upon my word , I don't know what to put it at , the Golden Dustman muttered . 
But I leave it to you , Mr Boffin . 
The Golden Dustman seeming to be engaged in some abstruse calculation , Mr Wegg assisted him with the following additional items . 
'There was , further , Miss Elizabeth , Master George , Aunt Jane , and Uncle Parker . 
But I leave it wholly to you , sir . 
Mr Sloppy still continued his singular , and on the surface his incomprehensible , movement . 
All I can say is , that I felt my tone of mind a lowering at the time . 
And how can a man put a price upon his mind ! There was likewise a hat just now . 
But I leave the ole to you , Mr Boffin . 
'Come ! said Mr Boffin . 
'Here's a couple of pound . 
'In justice to myself , I couldn't take it , sir . 
A somewhat difficult feat , achieved with great dexterity , and with a prodigious splash . 
Not even he could have told , for such misery can only be felt . 
This was load enough to crush him , and he laboured under it day and night . 
It was as heavy on him in his scanty sleep , as in his red eyed waking hours . 
It bore him down with a dread unchanging monotony , in which there was not a moment's variety . 
Not even that poor mockery of relief could the wretched man obtain , under the steady pressure of the infernal atmosphere into which he had entered . 
straying further from the fact , going wider of the issue , and evidently slackening in his zeal . 
By degrees , a glimmering of the cause of this began to break on Bradley's sight . 
, and then he saw in the light what he had brought about . 
For , then he saw that through his desperate attempt to separate those two for ever , he had been made the means of uniting them . 
That he had dipped his hands in blood , to mark himself a miserable fool and tool . 
That Eugene Wrayburn , for his wife's sake , set him aside and left him to crawl along his blasted course . 
Bradley would far rather have been seized for his murder , than he would have read that passage , knowing himself spared , and knowing why . 
He examined the advertisements in the newspapers for any sign that Riderhood acted on his hinted threat of so summoning him to renew their acquaintance , but found none . 
This horrible condition brought on other fits . 
He then saw a slouching man of forbidding appearance standing in the midst of the school , with a bundle under his arm and saw that it was Riderhood . 
But , the fit went off for that time , and he wiped his mouth , and stood up again . 
'Beg your pardon , governor ! By your leave ! said Riderhood , knuckling his forehead , with a chuckle and a leer . 
'What place may this be ? 'This is a school . 
'Where young folks learns wot's right ? said Riderhood , gravely nodding . 
'Beg your pardon , governor ! By your leave ! But who teaches this school ? 'I do . 
'You're the master , are you , learned governor ? 'Yes . 
'And a lovely thing it must be , said Riderhood , 'fur to learn young folks wot's right , and fur to know wot THEY know wot you do it . 
Beg your pardon , learned governor ! By your leave ! That there black board wot's it for ? 'It is for drawing on , or writing on . 
'Is it though ! said Riderhood . 
Bradley hesitated for a moment but placed his usual signature , enlarged , upon the board . 
'I ain't a learned character myself , said Riderhood , surveying the class , 'but I do admire learning in others . 
I should dearly like to hear these here young folks read that there name off , from the writing . 
The arms of the class went up . 
At the miserable master's nod , the shrill chorus arose 'Bradley Headstone ! 'No ? cried Riderhood . 
'You don't mean it ? Headstone ! Why , that's in a churchyard . 
Chris'en name , Bradley sim'lar to Roger which is my own . 
Eh ? Fam'ly name , Headstone , sim'lar to Riderhood which is my own . 
'I thought you knowed the man I mean , learned governor . 
'D'ye think he'll come ? asked Riderhood . 
'I am sure he will . 
'Having got your word for him , said Riderhood , 'I shall count upon him . 
P'raps you'd so fur obleege me , learned governor , as tell him that if he don't come precious soon , I'll look him up . 
'Oh ! It's in the way of school ! cried Riderhood . 
'I'll pound it , Master , to be in the way of school . 
Wot's the diwisions of water , my lambs ? Wot sorts of water is there on the land ? Shrill chorus 'Seas , rivers , lakes , and ponds . 
'Seas , rivers , lakes , and ponds , said Riderhood . 
'They've got all the lot , Master ! Blowed if I shouldn't have left out lakes , never having clapped eyes upon one , to my knowledge . 
Seas , rivers , lakes , and ponds . 
'Fish ! 'Good a gin ! said Riderhood . 
'But wot else is it , my lambs , as they sometimes ketches in rivers ? Chorus at a loss . 
One shrill voice 'Weed ! 'Good agin ! cried Riderhood . 
'But it ain't weed neither . 
You'll never guess , my dears . 
Wot is it , besides fish , as they sometimes ketches in rivers ? Well ! I'll tell you . 
'Leastways , lambs , said Riderhood , observing him out of the corners of his eyes , 'that's wot I my own self sometimes ketches in rivers . 
The master looked at the examiner , as if he would have torn him to pieces . 
'I ask your pardon , learned governor , said Riderhood , smearing his sleeve across his mouth as he laughed with a relish , 'tain't fair to the lambs , I know . 
It wos a bit of fun of mine . 
But upon my soul I drawed this here bundle out of a river ! It's a Bargeman's suit of clothes . 
You see , it had been sunk there by the man as wore it , and I got it up . 
'How do you know it was sunk by the man who wore it ? asked Bradley . 
'Cause I see him do it , said Riderhood . 
They looked at each other . 
Bradley , slowly withdrawing his eyes , turned his face to the black board and slowly wiped his name out . 
The next day but one was Saturday , and a holiday . 
Bradley rose early , and set out on foot for Plashwater Weir Mill Lock . 
He rose so early that it was not yet light when he began his journey . 
He then addressed the parcel to Miss Peecher , and left it on the most protected corner of the little seat in her little porch . 
It was a cold hard easterly morning when he latched the garden gate and turned away . 
The light snowfall which had feathered his schoolroom windows on the Thursday , still lingered in the air , and was falling white , while the wind blew black . 
The tardy day did not appear until he had been on foot two hours , and had traversed a greater part of London from east to west . 
Such breakfast as he had , he took at the comfortless public house where he had parted from Riderhood on the occasion of their night walk . 
He took it , standing at the littered bar , and looked loweringly at a man who stood where Riderhood had stood that early morning . 
He outwalked the short day , and was on the towing path by the river , somewhat footsore , when the night closed in . 
Still two or three miles short of the Lock , he slackened his pace then , but went steadily on . 
He took heed of nothing but the ice , the snow , and the distance , until he saw a light ahead , which he knew gleamed from the Lock House window . 
It arrested his steps , and he looked all around . 
The ice , and the snow , and he , and the one light , had absolute possession of the dreary scene . 
In the distance before him , lay the place where he had struck the worse than useless blows that mocked him with Lizzie's presence there as Eugene's wife . 
In the distance behind him , lay the place where the children with pointing arms had seemed to devote him to the demons in crying out his name . 
Within there , where the light was , was the man who as to both distances could give him up to ruin . 
To these limits had his world shrunk . 
He mended his pace , keeping his eyes upon the light with a strange intensity , as if he were taking aim at it . 
When he approached it so nearly as that it parted into rays , they seemed to fasten themselves to him and draw him on . 
When he struck the door with his hand , his foot followed so quickly on his hand , that he was in the room before he was bidden to enter . 
The light was the joint product of a fire and a candle . 
Between the two , with his feet on the iron fender , sat Riderhood , pipe in mouth . 
He looked up with a surly nod when his visitor came in . 
His visitor looked down with a surly nod . 
His outer clothing removed , the visitor then took a seat on the opposite side of the fire . 
'Not a smoker , I think ? said Riderhood , pushing a bottle to him across the table . 
They both lapsed into silence , with their eyes upon the fire . 
'You don't need to be told I am here , said Bradley at length . 
'Who is to begin ? 'I'll begin , said Riderhood , 'when I've smoked this here pipe out . 
He finished it with great deliberation , knocked out the ashes on the hob , and put it by . 
'I'll begin , he then repeated , 'Bradley Headstone , Master , if you wish it . 
'Wish it ? I wish to know what you want with me . 
Riderhood had looked hard at his hands and his pockets , apparently as a precautionary measure lest he should have any weapon about him . 
But , he now leaned forward , turning the collar of his waistcoat with an inquisitive finger , and asked , 'Why , where's your watch ? 'I have left it behind . 
But it can be fetched . 
I've took a fancy to it . 
Bradley answered with a contemptuous laugh . 
'I want it , repeated Riderhood , in a louder voice , 'and I mean to have it . 
'That is what you want of me , is it ? 'No , said Riderhood , still louder 'it's on'y part of what I want of you . 
I want money of you . 
'Anything else ? 'Everythink else ! roared Riderhood , in a very loud and furious way . 
'Answer me like that , and I won't talk to you at all . 
'Don't so much as look at me like that , or I won't talk to you at all , vociferated Riderhood . 
'O ! I'm a going on . 
Don't you fear but I'll go on full fast enough for you , and fur enough for you , without your telling . 
Look here , Bradley Headstone , Master . 
You might have split the T'other governor to chips and wedges , without my caring , except that I might have come upon you for a glass or so now and then . 
Yes , they do happen to be bloody . 
Ah , you sly devil ! Bradley , very white , sat looking at him in silence . 
I know to a figure how you done it . 
Where you stole away , I could steal away arter you , and do it knowinger than you . 
I know how you come away from London in your own clothes , and where you changed your clothes , and hid your clothes . 
I see you rise up Bradley Headstone , Master , where you sat down Bargeman . 
I see you pitch your Bargeman's bundle into the river . 
I hooked your Bargeman's bundle out of the river . 
I've got your Bargeman's clothes , tore this way and that way with the scuffle , stained green with the grass , and spattered all over with what bust from the blows . 
I've got them , and I've got you . 
I don't care a curse for the T'other governor , alive or dead , but I care a many curses for my own self . 
At last he said , with what seemed an inconsistent composure of voice and feature 'You can't get blood out of a stone , Riderhood . 
'I can get money out of a schoolmaster though . 
'You can't get out of me what is not in me . 
You can't wrest from me what I have not got . 
Mine is but a poor calling . 
You have had more than two guineas from me , already . 
to earn such a sum ? 'I don't know , nor I don't care . 
Yours is a 'spectable calling . 
When you've done that and handed over , I'll leave you . 
'How do you mean , you'll leave me ? 'I mean as I'll keep you company , wherever you go , when you go away from here . 
Let the Lock take care of itself . 
I'll take care of you , once I've got you . 
Bradley again looked at the fire . 
Eyeing him aside , Riderhood took up his pipe , refilled it , lighted it , and sat smoking . 
Bradley leaned his elbows on his knees , and his head upon his hands , and looked at the fire with a most intent abstraction . 
'Riderhood , he said , raising himself in his chair , after a long silence , and drawing out his purse and putting it on the table . 
'Say nothink of the sort , retorted Riderhood , shaking his head as he smoked . 
'You've got away once , and I won't run the chance agin . 
I've had trouble enough to find you , and shouldn't have found you , if I hadn't seen you slipping along the street overnight , and watched you till you was safe housed . 
I'll have one settlement with you for good and all . 
'Riderhood , I am a man who has lived a retired life . 
I have no resources beyond myself . 
I have absolutely no friends . 
'That's a lie , said Riderhood . 
'I went into the wrong shop , fust , last Thursday , said Riderhood . 
'Found myself among the young ladies , by George ! Over the young ladies , I see a Missis . 
That Missis is sweet enough upon you , Master , to sell herself up , slap , to get you out of trouble . 
Make her do it then . 
'You spoke to the mistress , did you ? inquired Bradley , with that former composure of voice and feature that seemed inconsistent , and with averted eyes . 
'Poof ! Yes , said Riderhood , withdrawing his attention from the smoke . 
I didn't say much to her . 
, and she took me into her parlour to hope as there was nothink wrong . 
I tells her , O no , nothink wrong . 
The master's my wery good friend . 
But I see how the land laid , and that she was comfortable off . 
Bradley put the purse in his pocket , grasped his left wrist with his right hand , and sat rigidly contemplating the fire . 
, I recommend you to clean her out without loss of time . 
You can marry her , arter you and me have come to a settlement . 
She's nice looking , and I know you can't be keeping company with no one else , having been so lately disapinted in another quarter . 
Not one other word did Bradley utter all that night . 
Not once did he change his attitude , or loosen his hold upon his wrist . 
Not until the late daylight made the window transparent , did this decaying statue move . 
Then it slowly arose , and sat in the window looking out . 
Riderhood had kept his chair all night . 
He was making some disorderly preparations for coffee , when Bradley came from the window and put on his outer coat and hat . 
'Hadn't us better have a bit o' breakfast afore we start ? said Riderhood . 
'It ain't good to freeze a empty stomach , Master . 
Without a sign to show that he heard , Bradley walked out of the Lock House . 
Catching up from the table a piece of bread , and taking his Bargeman's bundle under his arm , Riderhood immediately followed him . 
Riderhood caught him up , and walked at his side . 
The two men trudged on , side by side , in silence , full three miles . 
Suddenly , Bradley turned to retrace his course . 
Instantly , Riderhood turned likewise , and they went back side by side . 
Bradley re entered the Lock House . 
Bradley sat down in the window . 
Riderhood warmed himself at the fire . 
After an hour or more , Bradley abruptly got up again , and again went out , but this time turned the other way . 
Riderhood was close after him , caught him up in a few paces , and walked at his side . 
This time , as before , when he found his attendant not to be shaken off , Bradley suddenly turned back . 
This time , as before , Riderhood turned back along with him . 
Navigation was impeded by the frost , and the scene was a mere white and yellow desert . 
'Come , come , Master , urged Riderhood , at his side . 
'This is a dry game . 
And where's the good of it ? You can't get rid of me , except by coming to a settlement . 
I am a going along with you wherever you go . 
Without a word of reply , Bradley passed quickly from him over the wooden bridge on the lock gates . 
'Why , there's even less sense in this move than t'other , said Riderhood , following . 
'The Weir's there , and you'll have to come back , you know . 
Without taking the least notice , Bradley leaned his body against a post , in a resting attitude , and there rested with his eyes cast down . 
'Being brought here , said Riderhood , gruffly , 'I'll turn it to some use by changing my gates . 
With a rattle and a rush of water , he then swung to the lock gates that were standing open , before opening the others . 
So , both sets of gates were , for the moment , closed . 
'You'd better by far be reasonable , Bradley Headstone , Master , said Riderhood , passing him , 'or I'll drain you all the dryer for it , when we do settle . 
Ah ! Would you ! Bradley had caught him round the body . 
He seemed to be girdled with an iron ring . 
They were on the brink of the Lock , about midway between the two sets of gates . 
'Let go ! said Riderhood , 'or I'll get my knife out and slash you wherever I can cut you . 
Let go ! Bradley was drawing to the Lock edge . 
Riderhood was drawing away from it . 
It was a strong grapple , and a fierce struggle , arm and leg . 
Bradley got him round , with his back to the Lock , and still worked him backward . 
'Let go ! said Riderhood . 
'Stop ! What are you trying at ? You can't drown Me . 
Ain't I told you that the man as has come through drowning can never be drowned ? I can't be drowned . 
'I can be ! returned Bradley , in a desperate , clenched voice . 
'I am resolved to be . 
I'll hold you living , and I'll hold you dead . 
Come down ! Riderhood went over into the smooth pit , backward , and Bradley Headstone upon him . 
But , he was girdled still with Bradley's iron ring , and the rivets of the iron ring held tight . 
It followed that the old man , Riah , as a good and serviceable friend to both , was not to be disclaimed . 
Nor even Mr Inspector , as having been trepanned into an industrious hunt on a false scent . 
had pocketed the government reward . 
The harmless Twemlow profited by the conditions entered into , though he little thought it . 
Mrs Wilfer's first visit to the Mendicant's bride at the new abode of Mendicancy , was a grand event . 
Pa had also been appointed Secretary , and had been enjoined to give instant notice of resignation to Chicksey , Veneering , and Stobbles , for ever and ever . 
But Ma came later , and came , as was her due , in state . 
Mr George Sampson meekly followed . 
'I wish to goodness , Ma , said Lavvy , throwing herself back among the cushions , with her arms crossed , 'that you'd loll a little . 
'How ! repeated Mrs Wilfer . 
'Loll ! 'Yes , Ma . 
'I hope , said the impressive lady , 'I am incapable of it . 
'I am sure you look so , Ma . 
But why one should go out to dine with one's own daughter or sister , as if one's under petticoat was a blackboard , I do NOT understand . 
'Neither do I understand , retorted Mrs Wilfer , with deep scorn , 'how a young lady can mention the garment in the name of which you have indulged . 
'Thank you , Ma , said Lavvy , yawning , 'but I can do it for myself , I am obliged to you , when there's any occasion . 
And immediately felt that he had committed himself . 
'We know it's there ! said Mrs Wilfer , glaring . 
'Really , George , remonstrated Miss Lavinia , 'I must say that I don't understand your allusions , and that I think you might be more delicate and less personal . 
'Go it ! cried Mr Sampson , becoming , on the shortest notice , a prey to despair . 
'Oh yes ! Go it , Miss Lavinia Wilfer ! 'What you may mean , George Sampson , by your omnibus driving expressions , I cannot pretend to imagine . 
Neither , said Miss Lavinia , 'Mr George Sampson , do I wish to imagine . 
A weak conclusion which , however , derived some appearance of strength from disdain . 
'Oh yes ! cried Mr Sampson , with bitterness . 
'Lavinia , returned Mr Sampson , in a dismal vein , I did not mean to say so . 
What I did mean to say , was , that I never expected to retain my favoured place in this family , after Fortune shed her beams upon it . 
'Mr Sampson , she began , 'I cannot permit you to misrepresent the intentions of a child of mine . 
'Let him alone , Ma , Miss Lavvy interposed with haughtiness . 
'It is indifferent to me what he says or does . 
'Nay , Lavinia , quoth Mrs Wilfer , 'this touches the blood of the family . 
'Peace ! said Mrs Wilfer , solemnly . 
'I repeat , if Mr George Sampson attributes , to my youngest daughter , grovelling motives , he attributes them equally to the mother of my youngest daughter . 
Mr George Sampson appears to me to be on his way , by his own admission , to a residence that may be termed Palatial . 
Lavinia is now highly connected . 
'Dearest Lavinia , urged Mr Sampson , pathetically , 'I adore you . 
'Then if you can't do it in a more agreeable manner , returned the young lady , 'I wish you wouldn't . 
'When you have to compete with the rich and influential , it will probably be mentioned to you , said Miss Lavvy , 'in good time . 
At least , it will if the case is MY case . 
Mr Sampson immediately expressed his fervent Opinion that this was 'more than human' , and was brought upon his knees at Miss Lavinia's feet . 
Ascending the staircase , Miss Lavinia permitted him to walk at her side , with the air of saying 'Notwithstanding all these surroundings , I am yours as yet , George . 
How long it may last is another question , but I am yours as yet . 
Indeed , the bearing of this impressive woman , throughout the day , was a pattern to all impressive women under similar circumstances . 
Her carriage towards Bella was as a carriage towards a young lady of good position , whom she had met in society a few years ago . 
The Inexhaustible being produced , staring , and evidently intending a weak and washy smile shortly , no sooner beheld her , than it was stricken spasmodic and inconsolable . 
This visit was , as has been said , a grand event . 
Another event , not grand but deemed in the house a special one , occurred at about the same period and this was , the first interview between Mr Sloppy and Miss Wren . 
'Come in , sir , said Miss Wren , who was working at her bench . 
'And who may you be ? Mr Sloppy introduced himself by name and buttons . 
'Oh indeed ! cried Jenny . 
'Ah ! I have been looking forward to knowing you . 
I heard of your distinguishing yourself . 
'Did you , Miss ? grinned Sloppy . 
'I am sure I am glad to hear it , but I don't know how . 
'Pitching somebody into a mud cart , said Miss Wren . 
'Oh ! That way ! cried Sloppy . 
And threw back his head and laughed . 
'Bless us ! exclaimed Miss Wren , with a start . 
'Don't open your mouth as wide as that , young man , or it'll catch so , and not shut again some day . 
Mr Sloppy opened it , if possible , wider , and kept it open until his laugh was out . 
'Why , you're like the giant , said Miss Wren , 'when he came home in the land of Beanstalk , and wanted Jack for supper . 
'Was he good looking , Miss ? asked Sloppy . 
'No , said Miss Wren . 
Her visitor glanced round the room which had many comforts in it now , that had not been in it before and said 'This is a pretty place , Miss . 
'Glad you think so , sir , returned Miss Wren . 
'And what do you think of Me ? The honesty of Mr Sloppy being severely taxed by the question , he twisted a button , grinned , and faltered . 
'Out with it ! said Miss Wren , with an arch look . 
'Don't you think me a queer little comicality ? In shaking her head at him after asking the question , she shook her hair down . 
'Oh ! cried Sloppy , in a burst of admiration . 
'What a lot , and what a colour ! Miss Wren , with her usual expressive hitch , went on with her work . 
But , left her hair as it was not displeased by the effect it had made . 
'You don't live here alone do you , Miss ? asked Sloppy . 
'No , said Miss Wren , with a chop . 
'Live here with my fairy godmother . 
'With Mr Sloppy couldn't make it out 'with who did you say , Miss ? 'Well ! replied Miss Wren , more seriously . 
Or with my first , for that matter . 
And she shook her head , and drew a sigh . 
'If you had known a poor child I used to have here , she added , 'you'd have understood me . 
But you didn't , and you can't . 
'Never was taught a stitch , young man ! returned the dress maker , tossing her head . 
'Just gobbled and gobbled , till I found out how to do it . 
Badly enough at first , but better now . 
'Now that the Mounds is done with , it is . 
I'll tell you what , Miss . 
I should like to make you something . 
But what ? 'I could make you , said Sloppy , surveying the room , 'I could make you a handy set of nests to lay the dolls in . 
Or I could make you a handy little set of drawers , to keep your silks and threads and scraps in . 
Or I could turn you a rare handle for that crutch stick , if it belongs to him you call your father . 
'It belongs to me , returned the little creature , with a quick flush of her face and neck . 
Poor Sloppy flushed too , for there was an instinctive delicacy behind his buttons , and his own hand had struck it . 
He said , perhaps , the best thing in the way of amends that could be said . 
'I am very glad it's yours , because I'd rather ornament it for you than for any one else . 
Please may I look at it ? Miss Wren was in the act of handing it to him over her bench , when she paused . 
'But you had better see me use it , she said , sharply . 
Hoppetty , Kicketty , Pep peg peg . 
Not pretty is it ? 'It seems to me that you hardly want it at all , said Sloppy . 
Though that's not your sort , I'll wager . 
'You are a very kind young man , returned the dressmaker 'a really kind young man . 
'No , no , replied Miss Wren . 
'Him , Him , Him ! 'Him , him , him ? repeated Sloppy staring about , as if for Him . 
'Him who is coming to court and marry me , returned Miss Wren . 
'Dear me , how slow you are ! 'Oh ! HIM ! said Sloppy . 
And seemed to turn thoughtful and a little troubled . 
'I never thought of him . 
When is he coming , Miss ? 'What a question ! cried Miss Wren . 
I don't know any more about him , at present . 
This tickled Mr Sloppy as an extraordinarily good joke , and he threw back his head and laughed with measureless enjoyment . 
At the sight of him laughing in that absurd way , the dolls' dressmaker laughed very heartily indeed . 
So they both laughed , till they were tired . 
'There , there , there ! said Miss Wren . 
'For goodness' sake , stop , Giant , or I shall be swallowed up alive , before I know it . 
And to this minute you haven't said what you've come for . 
'I have come for little Miss Harmonses doll , said Sloppy . 
'I thought as much , remarked Miss Wren , 'and here is little Miss Harmonses doll waiting for you . 
She's folded up in silver paper , you see , as if she was wrapped from head to foot in new Bank notes . 
Take care of her , and there's my hand , and thank you again . 
'I'll take more care of her than if she was a gold image , said Sloppy , 'and there's both MY hands , Miss , and I'll soon come back again . 
But , the greatest event of all , in the new life of Mr and Mrs John Harmon , was a visit from Mr and Mrs Eugene Wrayburn . 
Sadly wan and worn was the once gallant Eugene , and walked resting on his wife's arm , and leaning heavily upon a stick . 
But , he was daily growing stronger and better , and it was declared by the medical attendants that he might not be much disfigured by and by . 
To Mr Eugene Wrayburn , in confidence , did Mrs John Harmon impart what she had known of the state of his wife's affections , in his reckless time . 
That same afternoon , Eugene lying on his couch in his own room upstairs , Lightwood came to chat with him , while Bella took his wife out for a ride . 
'Nothing short of force will make her go , Eugene had said so , Bella had playfully forced her . 
First , of my present , before I touch upon my future . 
, that Lizzie ought to have her portrait painted . 
Which , coming from M. R. F. , may be considered equivalent to a melodramatic blessing . 
'You are getting well , said Mortimer , with a smile . 
'Really , said Eugene , 'I mean it . 
The coolness of M. R. F. is not to be measured by ordinary standards . 
'True enough , said Lightwood . 
My marriage being thus solemnly recognized at the family altar , I have no further trouble on that score . 
, the little that I can call my own will be more than it ever has been . 
It need be more , for you know what it always has been in my hands . 
'Worse than nothing , I fancy , Eugene . 
has been an effective Something , in the way of preventing me from turning to at Anything . 
And I think yours has been much the same . 
'There spake the voice of wisdom , said Eugene . 
In turning to at last , we turn to in earnest . 
Let us say no more of that , for a few years to come . 
Now , I have had an idea , Mortimer , of taking myself and my wife to one of the colonies , and working at my vocation there . 
'I should be lost without you , Eugene but you may be right . 
'No , said Eugene , emphatically . 
Wrong ! He said it with such a lively almost angry flash , that Mortimer showed himself greatly surprised . 
'You think this thumped head of mine is excited ? Eugene went on , with a high look 'not so , believe me . 
I can say to you of the healthful music of my pulse what Hamlet said of his . 
My blood is up , but wholesomely up , when I think of it . 
any slight coldness towards her on the part of Society ? 'O ! You and I may well stumble at the word , returned Eugene , laughing . 
'Do we mean our Tippins ? 'Perhaps we do , said Mortimer , laughing also . 
'Faith , we DO ! returned Eugene , with great animation . 
Therefore , I will fight it out to the last gasp , with her and for her , here , in the open field . 
The glow that shone upon him as he spoke the words , so irradiated his features that he looked , for the time , as though he had never been mutilated . 
His friend responded as Eugene would have had him respond , and they discoursed of the future until Lizzie came back . 
You are more flushed than you have been for many days . 
What have you been doing ? 'Nothing , replied Eugene , 'but looking forward to your coming back . 
'And talking to Mr Lightwood , said Lizzie , turning to him with a smile . 
'But it cannot have been Society that disturbed you . 
There are Podsnap the Great , and Mrs Podsnap . 
There are Buffer , Boots , and Brewer . 
There is the Contractor , who is Providence to five hundred thousand men . 
There is the Chairman , travelling three thousand miles per week . 
There is the brilliant genius who turned the shares into that remarkably exact sum of three hundred and seventy five thousand pounds , no shillings , and nopence . 
That fresh fairy , Tippins , all but screams at sight of her false swain . 
She summons the deserter to her with her fan but the deserter , predetermined not to come , talks Britain with Podsnap . 
Podsnap always talks Britain , and talks as if he were a sort of Private Watchman employed , in the British interests , against the rest of the world . 
'We know what Russia means , sir , says Podsnap 'we know what France wants we see what America is up to but we know what England is . 
However , when dinner is served , and Lightwood drops into his old place over against Lady Tippins , she can be fended off no longer . 
'Long banished Robinson Crusoe , says the charmer , exchanging salutations , 'how did you leave the Island ? 'Thank you , says Lightwood . 
'It made no complaint of being in pain anywhere . 
'Say , how did you leave the savages ? asks Lady Tippins . 
'They were becoming civilized when I left Juan Fernandez , says Lightwood . 
'At least they were eating one another , which looked like it . 
'Tormentor ! returns the dear young creature . 
'You know what I mean , and you trifle with my impatience . 
Tell me something , immediately , about the married pair . 
You were at the wedding . 
'Was I , by the by ? Mortimer pretends , at great leisure , to consider . 
'So I was ! 'How was the bride dressed ? In rowing costume ? Mortimer looks gloomy , and declines to answer . 
'I hope she steered herself , skiffed herself , paddled herself , larboarded and starboarded herself , or whatever the technical term may be , to the ceremony ? proceeds the playful Tippins . 
'However she got to it , she graced it , says Mortimer . 
Lady Tippins with a skittish little scream , attracts the general attention . 
'Graced it ! Take care of me if I faint , Veneering . 
He means to tell us , that a horrid female waterman is graceful ! 'Pardon me . 
I mean to tell you nothing , Lady Tippins , replies Lightwood . 
And keeps his word by eating his dinner with a show of the utmost indifference . 
'You shall not escape me in this way , you morose backwoodsman , retorts Lady Tippins . 
'You shall not evade the question , to screen your friend Eugene , who has made this exhibition of himself . 
The knowledge shall be brought home to you that such a ridiculous affair is condemned by the voice of Society . 
My dear Mrs Veneering , do let us resolve ourselves into a Committee of the whole House on the subject . 
Mrs Veneering , always charmed by this rattling sylph , cries . 
But nobody takes the slightest notice of his joke . 
'Now , I am Chairwoman of Committees ! cries Lady Tippins . 
'And this , pursues the sprightly one , 'is a Committee of the whole House to what you may call it elicit , I suppose the voice of Society . 
'Hardly so , I think , the stubborn Mortimer strikes in . 
'But , excuse me , says Podsnap , with his temper and his shirt collar about equally rumpled 'was this young woman ever a female waterman ? 'Never . 
But she sometimes rowed in a boat with her father , I believe . 
General sensation against the young woman . 
'And now , Mr Lightwood , was she ever , pursues Podsnap , with his indignation rising high into those hair brushes of his , 'a factory girl ? 'Never . 
But she had some employment in a paper mill , I believe . 
Brewer says , 'Oh dear ! Boots says , 'Oh dear ! Buffer says , 'Oh dear ! All , in a rumbling tone of protest . 
'Hear , hear , hear ! cries Lady Tippins . 
Mrs Podsnap stops there , delicately intimating that every such man should look out for a fine woman as nearly resembling herself as he may hope to discover . 
Lady Tippins next canvasses the Contractor , of five hundred thousand power . 
These things are a question of beefsteaks and porter . 
You buy the young woman a boat . 
You buy her , at the same time , a small annuity . 
You speak of that annuity in pounds sterling , but it is in reality so many pounds of beefsteaks and so many pints of porter . 
On the one hand , the young woman has the boat . 
On the other hand , she consumes so many pounds of beefsteaks and so many pints of porter . 
Those beefsteaks and that porter are the fuel to that young woman's engine . 
is the way of looking at it . 
The fair enslaver having fallen into one of her gentle sleeps during the last exposition , nobody likes to wake her . 
Fortunately , she comes awake of herself , and puts the question to the Wandering Chairman . 
The Wanderer can only speak of the case as if it were his own . 
'Madness and moonshine , is then the compressed verdict of the Genius . 
'A man may do anything lawful , for money . 
But for no money ! Bosh ! What does Boots say ? Boots says he wouldn't have done it under twenty thousand pound . 
What does Brewer say ? Brewer says what Boots says . 
What does Buffer say ? Buffer says he knows a man who married a bathing woman , and bolted . 
, when , looking round the table through her eyeglass , she perceives Mr Twemlow with his hand to his forehead . 
'I am disposed to think , says he , 'that this is a question of the feelings of a gentleman . 
'A gentleman can have no feelings who contracts such a marriage , flushes Podsnap . 
'Pardon me , sir , says Twemlow , rather less mildly than usual , 'I don't agree with you . 
to marry this lady 'This lady ! echoes Podsnap . 
'Sir , returns Twemlow , with his wristbands bristling a little , 'YOU repeat the word I repeat the word . 
I beg to say , that when I use the word , gentleman , I use it in the sense in which the degree may be attained by any man . 
The feelings of a gentleman I hold sacred , and I confess I am not comfortable when they are made the subject of sport or general discussion . 
'I should like to know , sneers Podsnap , 'whether your noble relation would be of your opinion . 
'Mr Podsnap , retorts Twemlow , 'permit me . 
He might be , or he might not be . 
But , I could not allow even him to dictate to me on a point of great delicacy , on which I feel very strongly . 
Somehow , a canopy of wet blanket seems to descend upon the company , and Lady Tippins was never known to turn so very greedy or so very cross . 
may perhaps be trusted to know what he is about in his vocation , if they will concede him a little patience , I was not alarmed by the anticipation . 
There is sometimes an odd disposition in this country to dispute as improbable in fiction , what are the commonest experiences in fact . 
The records in our newspapers , the late exposure by THE LANCET , and the common sense and senses of common people , furnish too abundant evidence against both defences . 
But , that my view of the Poor Law may not be mistaken or misrepresented , I will state it . 
were on the South Eastern Railway with me , in a terribly destructive accident . 
They were much soiled , but otherwise unhurt . 
The same happy result attended Miss Bella Wilfer on her wedding day , and Mr Riderhood inspecting Bradley Headstone's red neckerchief as he lay asleep . 
