Here is a stout , lusty fellow with a quick temper , yet none so ill for all that , who goes by the name of Henry II . 
Here is a fair , gentle lady before whom all the others bow and call her Queen Eleanor . 
Here is a fat rogue of a fellow , dressed up in rich robes of a clerical kind , that all the good folk call my Lord Bishop of Hereford . 
Here is a certain fellow with a sour temper and a grim look the worshipful , the Sheriff of Nottingham . 
which draw these jocund fellows here and there , singing as they go . 
Here you will find a hundred dull , sober , jogging places , all tricked out with flowers and what not , till no one would know them in their fanciful dress . 
flow like water in a brook . 
This country is not Fairyland . 
And now I lift the curtain that hangs between here and No man's land . 
Will you come with me , sweet Reader ? I thank you . 
And now I will tell how it came about that Robin Hood fell afoul of the law . 
Now , quoth Robin , will I go too , for fain would I draw a string for the bright eyes of my lass and a butt of good October brewing . 
So up he got and took his good stout yew bow and a score or more of broad clothyard arrows , and started off from Locksley Town through Sherwood Forest to Nottingham . 
As thus he walked along with a brisk step and a merry whistle , he came suddenly upon some foresters seated beneath a great oak tree . 
Each man was clad in Lincoln green , and a fine show they made , seated upon the sward beneath that fair , spreading tree . 
I'll hold the best of you twenty marks , quoth bold Robin , that I hit the clout at threescore rods , by the good help of Our Lady fair . 
And another cried , He will be taking ale with his milk next . 
At this Robin grew right mad . 
Hark ye , said he , yonder , at the glade's end , I see a herd of deer , even more than threescore rods distant . 
I'll hold you twenty marks that , by leave of Our Lady , I cause the best hart among them to die . 
Now done ! cried he who had spoken first . 
And here are twenty marks . 
I wager that thou causest no beast to die , with or without the aid of Our Lady . 
High leaped the noblest hart of all the herd , only to fall dead , reddening the green path with his heart's blood . 
Ha ! cried Robin , how likest thou that shot , good fellow ? I wot the wager were mine , an it were three hundred pounds . 
Then all the foresters were filled with rage , and he who had spoken the first and had lost the wager was more angry than all . 
Nay , said a fourth , let him e'en go because of his tender years . 
Never a word said Robin Hood , but he looked at the foresters with a grim face then , turning on his heel , strode away from them down the forest glade . 
But his heart was bitterly angry , for his blood was hot and youthful and prone to boil . 
So , of a sudden , without any warning , he sprang to his feet , and seized upon his bow and fitted it to a shaft . 
Ay , cried he , and I'll hurry thee anon . 
And he sent the arrow whistling after Robin . 
It was well for Robin Hood that that same forester's head was spinning with ale , or else he would never have taken another step . 
As it was , the arrow whistled within three inches of his head . 
Then he turned around and quickly drew his own bow , and sent an arrow back in return . 
Then , before the others could gather their wits about them , Robin Hood was gone into the depths of the greenwood . 
Meanwhile Robin Hood ran through the greenwood . 
Gone was all the joy and brightness from everything , for his heart was sick within him , and it was borne in upon his soul that he had slain a man . 
So , in all that year , fivescore or more good stout yeomen gathered about Robin Hood , and chose him to be their leader and chief . 
But to the poor folk they would give a helping hand in need and trouble , and would return to them that which had been unjustly taken from them . 
Then said Robin , For fourteen days have we seen no sport , so now I will go abroad to seek adventures forthwith . 
But tarry ye , my merry men all , here in the greenwood only see that ye mind well my call . 
Three blasts upon the bugle horn I will blow in my hour of need then come quickly , for I shall want your aid . 
So saying , he strode away through the leafy forest glades until he had come to the verge of Sherwood . 
There he wandered for a long time , through highway and byway , through dingly dell and forest skirts . 
At last he took a road by the forest skirts , a bypath that dipped toward a broad , pebbly stream spanned by a narrow bridge made of a log of wood . 
As he drew nigh this bridge he saw a tall stranger coming from the other side . 
Thereupon Robin quickened his pace , as did the stranger likewise , each thinking to cross first . 
Now stand thou back , quoth Robin , and let the better man cross first . 
Thou pratest like an ass , said Robin , for I could send this shaft clean through thy proud heart before a curtal friar could say grace over a roast goose at Michaelmastide . 
Now , quoth Robin , by the faith of my heart , never have I had a coward's name in all my life before . 
I will lay by my trusty bow and eke my arrows , and if thou darest abide my coming , I will go and cut a cudgel to test thy manhood withal . 
Ay , marry , that will I abide thy coming , and joyously , too , quoth the stranger whereupon he leaned sturdily upon his staff to await Robin . 
Tall was Robin , but taller was the stranger by a head and a neck , for he was seven feet in height . 
Broad was Robin across the shoulders , but broader was the stranger by twice the breadth of a palm , while he measured at least an ell around the waist . 
Nevertheless , said Robin to himself , I will baste thy hide right merrily , my good fellow then , aloud , Lo , here is my good staff , lusty and tough . 
Now wait my coming , an thou darest , and meet me an thou fearest not . 
Then we will fight until one or the other of us tumble into the stream by dint of blows . 
Marry , that meeteth my whole heart ! cried the stranger , twirling his staff above his head , betwixt his fingers and thumb , until it whistled again . 
Never did the Knights of Arthur's Round Table meet in a stouter fight than did these two . 
But the stranger turned the blow right deftly and in return gave one as stout , which Robin also turned as the stranger had done . 
Now and then they stopped to rest , and each thought that he never had seen in all his life before such a hand at quarterstaff . 
At last Robin gave the stranger a blow upon the ribs that made his jacket smoke like a damp straw thatch in the sun . 
Then Robin grew mad with anger and smote with all his might at the other . 
And where art thou now , my good lad ? shouted the stranger , roaring with laughter . 
Oh , in the flood and floating adown with the tide , cried Robin , nor could he forbear laughing himself at his sorry plight . 
Then , gaining his feet , he waded to the bank , the little fish speeding hither and thither , all frightened at his splashing . 
Give me thy hand , cried he , when he had reached the bank . 
I must needs own thou art a brave and a sturdy soul and , withal , a good stout stroke with the cudgels . 
By this and by that , my head hummeth like to a hive of bees on a hot June day . 
Then he clapped his horn to his lips and winded a blast that went echoing sweetly down the forest paths . 
And thou , quoth the stranger , laughing , takest thy cudgeling like a brave heart and a stout yeoman . 
Good master , cried Will , how is this ? Truly thou art all wet from head to foot , and that to the very skin . 
Why , marry , answered jolly Robin , yon stout fellow hath tumbled me neck and crop into the water and hath given me a drubbing beside . 
Then shall he not go without a ducking and eke a drubbing himself ! cried Will Stutely . 
Nay , forbear ! cried Robin , laughing until his sore sides ached again . 
He is a right good man and true , and no harm shall befall him . 
Speak ! Wilt thou be one of my good merry men ? That know I not , quoth the stranger surlily , for he was angry at being so tumbled about . 
Now by my faith , said Robin , thou art a right saucy varlet , sirrah yet I will stoop to thee as I never stooped to man before . 
Good Stutely , cut thou a fair white piece of bark four fingers in breadth , and set it fourscore yards distant on yonder oak . 
Now , stranger , hit that fairly with a gray goose shaft and call thyself an archer . 
Ay , marry , that will I , answered he . 
Give me a good stout bow and a fair broad arrow , and if I hit it not , strip me and beat me blue with bowstrings . 
Aha ! cried he , mend thou that if thou canst while even the yeomen clapped their hands at so fair a shot . 
That is a keen shot indeed , quoth Robin . 
Mend it I cannot , but mar it I may , perhaps . 
Then taking up his own good stout bow and nocking an arrow with care , he shot with his very greatest skill . 
Straight flew the arrow , and so true that it lit fairly upon the stranger's shaft and split it into splinters . 
Then all the yeomen leaped to their feet and shouted for joy that their master had shot so well . 
Then have I gained a right good man this day , quoth jolly Robin . 
What name goest thou by , good fellow ? Men call me John Little whence I came , answered the stranger . 
Then Will Stutely , who loved a good jest , spoke up . 
Nay , fair little stranger , said he , I like not thy name and fain would I have it otherwise . 
Little art thou indeed , and small of bone and sinew , therefore shalt thou be christened Little John , and I will be thy godfather . 
Then Robin Hood and all his band laughed aloud until the stranger began to grow angry . 
An thou make a jest of me , quoth he to Will Stutely , thou wilt have sore bones and little pay , and that in short season . 
Nay , good friend , said Robin Hood , bottle thine anger , for the name fitteth thee well . 
Little John shall thou be called henceforth , and Little John shall it be . 
So come , my merry men , we will prepare a christening feast for this fair infant . 
There had they built huts of bark and branches of trees , and made couches of sweet rushes spread over with skins of fallow deer . 
Here they found the rest of the band , some of whom had come in with a brace of fat does . 
Then they all built great fires and after a time roasted the does and broached a barrel of humming ale . 
Then when the feast was ready they all sat down , but Robin placed Little John at his right hand , for he was henceforth to be the second in the band . 
Then when the feast was done Will Stutely spoke up . 
Then seven sponsors shall we have , quoth Will Stutely , and hunting among all the band , he chose the seven stoutest men of them all . 
Now by Saint Dunstan , cried Little John , springing to his feet , more than one of you shall rue it an you lay finger upon me . 
Then one came forward who had been chosen to play the priest because he had a bald crown , and in his hand he carried a brimming pot of ale . 
Now , who bringeth this babe ? asked he right soberly . 
That do I , answered Will Stutely . 
And what name callest thou him ? Little John call I him . 
Now Little John , quoth the mock priest , thou hast not lived heretofore , but only got thee along through the world , but henceforth thou wilt live indeed . 
When thou livedst not thou wast called John Little , but now that thou dost live indeed , Little John shalt thou be called , so christen I thee . 
And at these last words he emptied the pot of ale upon Little John's head . 
At first he was of a mind to be angry but found he could not , because the others were so merry so he , too , laughed with the rest . 
And now I will tell how the Sheriff of Nottingham three times sought to take Robin Hood , and how he failed each time . 
Thus a fortnight passed , in which time none came forward to do the Sheriff's business . 
Then said he , A right good reward have I offered to whosoever would serve my warrant upon Robin Hood , and I marvel that no one has come to undertake the task . 
Truly , no one likes to go on this service , for fear of cracked crowns and broken bones . 
Then I hold all Nottingham men to be cowards , said the Sheriff . 
So that same morning the messenger started forth upon his errand . 
Bright shone the sun upon the dusty highway that led from Nottingham to Lincoln , stretching away all white over hill and dale . 
There he saw a party of right jovial fellows seated beneath the spreading oak that shaded the greensward in front of the door . 
His bag and his hammer hung upon a twig of the oak tree , and near by leaned his good stout cudgel , as thick as his wrist and knotted at the end . 
Come , cried one of the foresters to the tired messenger , come join us for this shot . 
Ho , landlord ! Bring a fresh pot of ale for each man . 
The messenger was glad enough to sit down along with the others who were there , for his limbs were weary and the ale was good . 
And back thou goest with me to Nottingham Town . 
Nay , quoth the Tinker , shaking his head slowly from side to side . 
Go I with no man gin it be not with mine own free will . 
Nay , nay , said the messenger , no man is there in Nottinghamshire could make thee go against thy will , thou brave fellow . 
Ay , that be I brave , said the Tinker . 
Then I will go with thee , lad . 
Do but wait till I get my bag and hammer , and my cudgel . 
Ay , let' me but meet this same Robin Hood , and let me see whether he will not mind the King's warrant . 
So , after having paid their score , the messenger , with the Tinker striding beside his nag , started back to Nottingham again . 
As thus he walked down a shady lane he saw a tinker coming , trolling a merry song as he drew nigh . 
I WENT TO GATHER STRAWBERRIES Halloa ! cried Robin again . 
Halloa , shine own self , whether thou be good friend or no . 
And whence comest thou , my lusty blade ? quoth Robin . 
I come from Banbury , answered the Tinker . 
Alas ! quoth Robin , I hear there is sad news this merry morn . 
Ha ! Is it indeed so ? cried the Tinker eagerly . 
Well then , quoth Robin , list thou and I will tell , but bear thyself up bravely , for the news is sad , I wot . 
But sad news it is indeed , gin there be two stout fellows in the stocks . 
Nay , said Robin , thou hast missed the mark and dost but weep for the wrong sow . 
The sadness of the news lieth in that there be but two in the stocks , for the others do roam the country at large . 
Now by the pewter platter of Saint Dunstan , cried the Tinker , I have a good part of a mind to baste thy hide for thine ill jest . 
But gin men be put in the stocks for drinking ale and beer , I trow thou wouldst not lose thy part . 
Now by my faith , said the Tinker , thou art a right good fellow in spite of thy scurvy jests . 
I love thee , my sweet chuck , and gin I go not with thee to that same Blue Boar thou mayst call me a heathen . 
Within my pouch I have a warrant , all fairly written out on parchment , forsooth , with a great red seal for to make it lawful . 
But thou livest hereabouts , mayhap thou knowest Robin Hood thyself , good fellow . 
Ay , marry , that I do somewhat , quoth Robin , and I have seen him this very morn . 
But , Tinker , men say that he is but a sad , sly thief . 
Thou hadst better watch thy warrant , man , or else he may steal it out of thy very pouch . 
Let him but try ! cried the Tinker . 
Sly may he be , but sly am I , too . 
I would I had him here now , man to man ! And he made his heavy cudgel to spin again . 
Nay , quoth the Tinker , thou art but a green youth . 
I thought him to be a great bearded man . 
Nottingham men feared him so . 
Truly , he is not so old nor so stout as thou art , said Robin . 
But men do call him a right deft hand at quarterstaff . 
Ay , that will I , quoth Robin , but show me thy warrant , man , until I see whether it be good or no . 
That will I not do , even to mine own brother , answered the Tinker . 
No man shall see my warrant till I serve it upon yon fellow's own body . 
So be it , quoth Robin . 
And thou show it not to me I know not to whom thou wilt show it . 
But here we are at the Sign of the Blue Boar , so let us in and taste his brown October . 
No sweeter inn could be found in all Nottinghamshire than that of the Blue Boar . 
So saying , he went within and whispered to the host to add a measure of Flemish strong waters to the good English ale which the latter did and brought it to them . 
Drink , man , drink , cried Robin , only wetting his own lips meanwhile . 
Ho , landlord ! Bring my friend another pot of the same . 
And now for a song , my jolly blade . 
Ay , that will I give thee a song , my lovely fellow , quoth the Tinker , for I never tasted such ale in all my days before . 
But long before the Tinker came to the last verse his tongue began to trip and his head to spin , because of the strong waters mixed with the ale . 
First his tongue tripped , then it grew thick of sound then his head wagged from side to side , until at last he fell asleep as though he never would waken again . 
Then Robin Hood laughed aloud and quickly took the warrant from out the Tinker's pouch with his deft fingers . 
Sly art thou , Tinker , quoth he , but not yet , I bow , art thou as sly as that same sly thief Robin Hood . 
Then he called the host to him and said , Here , good man , are ten broad shillings for the entertainment thou hast given us this day . 
Thus do I punish those that come into the greenwood to deal dole to me . 
As for thine own self , never knew I landlord yet that would not charge twice an he could . 
At this the host smiled slyly , as though saying to himself the rustic saw , Teach a magpie to suck eggs . 
The Tinker slept until the afternoon drew to a close and the shadows grew long beside the woodland edge , then he awoke . 
First he thought of his merry companion , but he was gone . 
Then he thought of his stout crabstaff , and that he had within his hand . 
Then of his warrant , and of the fourscore angels he was to gain for serving it upon Robin Hood . 
He thrust his hand into his pouch , but not a scrap nor a farthing was there . 
Then he sprang to his feet in a rage . 
I saw no knave with Your Worship , for I swear no man would dare call that man knave so nigh to Sherwood Forest . 
A right stout yeoman I saw with Your Worship , but I thought that Your Worship knew him , for few there be about here that pass him by and know him not . 
So saying , he gathered himself together to depart . 
But did not he pay thee ? Not so much as one farthing and ten good shillings' worth of ale have ye drunk this day . 
Nay , I say , thou goest not away without paying me , else shall our good Sheriff know of it . 
But nought have I to pay thee with , good fellow , quoth the Tinker . 
Good fellow' not me , said the landlord . 
Nay , an thou stirrest , I have a great dog within and I will loose him upon thee . 
Maken , open thou the door and let forth Brian if this fellow stirs one step . 
Robin and I stripped yon ass of his pack main neatly , quoth the landlord . 
In his hand he carried his stout oaken staff , and at his side hung his bugle horn . 
With all my heart , cried merry Robin . 
Rattle my bones , an thou canst . 
So saying , he gripped his staff and threw himself upon his guard . 
Then the Tinker spat upon his hands and , grasping his staff , came straight at the other . 
At this Robin laughed aloud , and the Tinker grew more angry than ever , and smote again with all his might and main . 
Again Robin warded two of the strokes , but at the third , his staff broke beneath the mighty blows of the Tinker . 
Now , ill betide thee , traitor staff , cried Robin , as it fell from his hands a foul stick art thou to serve me thus in mine hour of need . 
Now yield thee , quoth the Tinker , for thou art my captive and if thou do not , I will beat thy pate to a pudding . 
To this Robin Hood made no answer , but , clapping his horn to his lips , he blew three blasts , loud and clear . 
Ay , quoth the Tinker , blow thou mayest , but go thou must with me to Nottingham Town , for the Sheriff would fain see thee there . 
Nor , when I bethink me , will I yield now . 
Ho , my merry men ! Come quickly ! Then from out the forest leaped Little John and six stout yeomen clad in Lincoln green . 
Then shall he himself hang forthwith , cried Little John , and he and the others made at the Tinker , to seize him . 
Nay , touch him not , said Robin , for a right stout man is he . 
A metal man he is by trade , and a mettled man by nature moreover , he doth sing a lovely ballad . 
Fain am I to own thou art both a stouter and a slyer man than I so I will obey thee and be thine own true servant . 
So all turned their steps to the forest depths , where the Tinker was to live henceforth . 
As for yon traitor Tinker , him will I hang , if I catch him , upon the very highest gallows tree in all Nottinghamshire . 
Then he bade all his servants and retainers to make ready to go to London Town , to see and speak with the King . 
For two days this labor lasted , then , on the third , all was ready for the journey . 
Thither came the Sheriff and was shown into the King's presence . 
A boon , a boon , quoth he , as he knelt upon the ground . 
Now what wouldst thou have ? said the King . 
Let us hear what may be thy desires . 
O good my Lord and Sovereign , spake the Sheriff , in Sherwood Forest in our own good shire of Nottingham , liveth a bold outlaw whose name is Robin Hood . 
In good sooth , said the King , his doings have reached even our own royal ears . 
He is a saucy , rebellious varlet , yet , I am fain to own , a right merry soul withal . 
But hearken , O my most gracious Sovereign , said the Sheriff . 
I sent a warrant to him with thine own royal seal attached , by a right lusty knave , but he beat the messenger and stole the warrant . 
And he killeth thy deer and robbeth thine own liege subjects even upon the great highways . 
Why , how now , quoth the King wrathfully . 
So look well to thyself , I say , or ill may befall thee as well as all the thieving knaves in Nottinghamshire . 
When the flood cometh it sweepeth away grain as well as chaff . 
So , as they all rode slowly back to Nottingham , the Sheriff was thoughtful and full of care . 
Not a word did he speak to anyone , and no one of his men spoke to him , but all the time he was busy devising some plan to take Robin Hood . 
And mark well my words before a fortnight is passed , that evil knave Robin Hood will be safely clapped into Nottingham gaol . 
At last he thought of the daring soul of jolly Robin and how , as he the Sheriff knew , he often came even within the walls of Nottingham . 
Now I fain would have one of us win it , both because of the fairness of the prize and because our sweet friend the Sheriff hath offered it . 
So we will take our bows and shafts and go there to shoot , for I know right well that merriment will be a going . 
What say ye , lads ? Then young David of Doncaster spoke up and said , Now listen , I pray thee , good master , unto what I say . 
I have come straight from our friend Eadom o' the Blue Boar , and there I heard the full news of this same match . 
So go not , good master , for I know right well he doth seek to beguile thee , but stay within the greenwood lest we all meet dole and woe . 
Now , quoth Robin , thou art a wise lad and keepest thine ears open and thy mouth shut , as becometh a wise and crafty woodsman . 
How like you the plan , my merry men all ? Then Good , good ! cried all the band right heartily . 
A fair sight was Nottingham Town on the day of the shooting match . 
At the end of the range , near the target , was a raised seat bedecked with ribbons and scarfs and garlands of flowers , for the Sheriff of Nottingham and his dame . 
The range was twoscore paces broad . 
At one end stood the target , at the other a tent of striped canvas , from the pole of which fluttered many colored flags and streamers . 
In this booth were casks of ale , free to be broached by any of the archers who might wish to quench their thirst . 
Across the range from where the seats for the better folk were raised was a railing to keep the poorer people from crowding in front of the target . 
With these came also the poorer folk , who sat or lay upon the green grass near the railing that kept them from off the range . 
And never was such a company of yeomen as were gathered at Nottingham Town that day , for the very best archers of merry England had come to this shooting match . 
And many more famous men of the longbow were there , whose names have been handed down to us in goodly ballads of the olden time . 
A golden chain hung about his neck , and at his collar was a great carbuncle set in red gold . 
His lady was dressed in blue velvet , all trimmed with swan's down . 
Then the archers stepped forth to their places , while all the folks shouted with a mighty voice , each man calling upon his favorite yeoman . 
Red Cap ! cried some Cruikshank ! cried others Hey for William o' Leslie ! shouted others yet again while ladies waved silken scarfs to urge each yeoman to do his best . 
Then the herald stood forth and loudly proclaimed the rules of the game as follows Shoot each man from yon mark , which is sevenscore yards and ten from the target . 
One arrow shooteth each man first , and from all the archers shall the ten that shooteth the fairest shafts be chosen for to shoot again . 
Two arrows shooteth each man of these ten , then shall the three that shoot the fairest shafts be chosen for to shoot again . 
Three arrows shooteth each man of those three , and to him that shooteth the fairest shafts shall the prize be given . 
Nevertheless , said the Sheriff to himself , he may still be there , and I miss him among the crowd of other men . 
But let me see when but ten men shoot , for I wot he will be among the ten , or I know him not . 
And now the archers shot , each man in turn , and the good folk never saw such archery as was done that day . 
These six men were Gilbert o' the Red Cap , Adam o' the Dell , Diccon Cruikshank , William o' Leslie , Hubert o' Cloud , and Swithin o' Hertford . 
Six of them I know right well . 
Of those Yorkshire yeomen , one is too tall and the other too short for that bold knave . 
Robin's beard is as yellow as gold , while yon tattered beggar in scarlet hath a beard of brown , besides being blind of one eye . 
As for the stranger in blue , Robin's shoulders , I ween , are three inches broader than his . 
Then , quoth the Sheriff , smiting his thigh angrily , yon knave is a coward as well as a rogue , and dares not show his face among good men and true . 
Then , after they had rested a short time , those ten stout men stepped forth to shoot again . 
And now but three men were left of all those that had shot before . 
One was Gill o' the Red Cap , one the tattered stranger in scarlet , and one Adam o' the Dell of Tamworth Town . 
Now , shoot thou well , Gilbert , cried the Sheriff , and if thine be the best shaft , fivescore broad silver pennies will I give to thee beside the prize . 
Truly I will do my best , quoth Gilbert right sturdily . 
A man cannot do aught but his best , but that will I strive to do this day . 
So saying , he drew forth a fair smooth arrow with a broad feather and fitted it deftly to the string , then drawing his bow with care he sped the shaft . 
Straight flew the arrow and lit fairly in the clout , a finger's breadth from the center . 
A Gilbert , a Gilbert ! shouted all the crowd and , Now , by my faith , cried the Sheriff , smiting his hands together , that is a shrewd shot . 
Then , after another time of rest , they all shot for the third time . 
This time Gilbert took great heed to his aim , keenly measuring the distance and shooting with shrewdest care . 
Well done , Gilbert ! cried the Sheriff right joyously . 
Fain am I to believe the prize is thine , and right fairly won . 
Now , thou ragged knave , let me see thee shoot a better shaft than that . 
No one spoke a word for a while and no one shouted , but each man looked into his neighbor's face amazedly . 
Then he thrust his shaft into his quiver , rattling , and unstrung his bow without another word . 
Here , good fellow , quoth the Sheriff , take thou the prize , and well and fairly hast thou won it , I bow . 
What may be thy name , and whence comest thou ? Men do call me Jock o' Teviotdale , and thence am I come , said the stranger . 
I trow thou drawest better bow than that same coward knave Robin Hood , that dared not show his face here this day . 
Say , good fellow , wilt thou join my service ? Nay , that will I not , quoth the stranger roughly . 
I will be mine own , and no man in all merry England shall be my master . 
Then get thee gone , and a murrain seize thee ! cried the Sheriff , and his voice trembled with anger . 
And by my faith and troth , I have a good part of a mind to have thee beaten for thine insolence ! Then he turned upon his heel and strode away . 
It was a right motley company that gathered about the noble greenwood tree in Sherwood's depths that same day . 
Then all laughed louder than before , for it was Robin Hood himself that had won the prize from the Sheriff's very hands . 
I would fain let him know who it was who won the golden arrow from out his hand , and also that I am no coward such as he takes me to be . 
That day the Sheriff sat at meat in the great hall of his house at Nottingham Town . 
Long tables stood down the hall , at which sat men at arms and household servants and good stout villains , in all fourscore and more . 
There they talked of the day's shooting as they ate their meat and quaffed their ale . 
The Sheriff sat at the head of the table upon a raised seat under a canopy , and beside him sat his dame . 
By my troth , said he , I did reckon full roundly that that knave Robin Hood would be at the game today . 
I did not think that he was such a coward . 
Then , even as he finished speaking , something fell rattling among the dishes on the table , while those that sat near started up wondering what it might be . 
After a while one of the men at arms gathered courage enough to pick it up and bring it to the Sheriff . 
Then everyone saw that it was a blunted gray goose shaft , with a fine scroll , about the thickness of a goose quill , tied near to its head . 
Whence came this ? cried the Sheriff in a mighty voice . 
Even through the window , Your Worship , quoth the man who had handed the shaft to him . 
I have tried law , and I have tried guile , and I have failed in both so I will try what may be done with might . 
Thus communing within himself , he called his constables together and told them what was in his mind . 
Thus , I think , shall we take this green clad knave . 
So , be ye bold and be ye crafty . 
But fain would I shun blood and battle , and fain would I not deal sorrow to womenfolk and wives because good stout yeomen lose their lives . 
Once I slew a man , and never do I wish to slay a man again , for it is bitter for the soul to think thereon . 
But they said nothing aloud , swallowing their words and doing as Robin bade them . 
At this a great shout arose , and each man waved his bow aloft and cried that he might be the one to go . 
Then Will Stutely leaped high aloft and laughed loudly , clapping his hands for pure joy that he should have been chosen from among them all . 
Now thanks , good master , quoth he , and if I bring not news of those knaves to thee , call me no more thy sly Will Stutely . 
Then he clad himself in a friar's gown , and underneath the robe he hung a good broadsword in such a place that he could easily lay hands upon it . 
Thus clad , he set forth upon his quest , until he came to the verge of the forest , and so to the highway . 
So at last he came to the Sign of the Blue Boar . 
For , quoth he to himself , our good friend Eadom will tell me all the news . 
For , said he to himself , it is a hard heart that kicks the lame dog from off the sill . 
As Stutely sat thus , there came a great house cat and rubbed against his knee , raising his robe a palm's breadth high . 
Stutely pushed his robe quickly down again , but the constable who commanded the Sheriffs men saw what had passed , and saw also fair Lincoln green beneath the friar's robe . 
Now I think in good sooth that is one of Robin Hood's own men . 
Then , staggering , he fell , and all sprang upon him , though he struggled so manfully that they could hardly hold him fast . 
Then they bound him with stout hempen cords so that he could not move either hand or foot , and thus they overcame him . 
Then Robin's heart fell , for he knew they were the bearers of ill tidings . 
Will Stutely hath been taken , cried they , when they had come to where he stood . 
And is it thou that hast brought such doleful news ? said Robin to the lass . 
They have bound him and taken him to Nottingham Town , and ere I left the Blue Boar I heard that he should be hanged tomorrow day . 
Now hark you all ! cried Robin . 
Is it not so , my merry men all ? Then all cried , Ay ! with a great voice . 
So they lay hidden a long time , until the sun stood high in the sky . 
Had good Stutely's master but known how his man was compassed about with perils , perchance he might send succor to bring him out of the hand of his enemies . 
Ay , marry , that is true , cried the young man . 
If Robin and his men be nigh this place , I wot right well they will strive to bring him forth from his peril . 
But fare thee well , thou good old man , and believe me , if Will Stutely die , he shall be right well avenged . 
Then he turned and strode rapidly away but the Palmer looked after him , muttering , I wot that youth is no country hind that hath come to see a good man die . 
Well , well , perchance Robin Hood is not so far away but that there will be stout doings this day . 
So he went upon his way , muttering to himself . 
Strike no man without need , for I would fain avoid bloodshed , but if ye do strike , strike hard , and see that there be no need to strike again . 
Then keep all together until we come again to Sherwood , and let no man leave his fellows . 
The sun was low in the western sky when a bugle note sounded from the castle wall . 
Then all was bustle in Nottingham Town and crowds filled the streets , for all knew that the famous Will Stutely was to be hanged that day . 
In the midst of all the guard , in a cart , with a halter about his neck , rode Will Stutely . 
Then his heart sank within him like a plummet of lead , but nevertheless he spoke up boldly . 
Then do but untie my hands and I will fight thee and thy men with no weapon but only my naked fists . 
I crave no weapon , but let me not be meanly hanged this day . 
Then the Sheriff laughed aloud . 
O thou dastard heart ! cried Will Stutely , gnashing his teeth at the Sheriff . 
Thou coward hind ! If ever my good master meet thee thou shalt pay dearly for this day's work ! He doth scorn thee , and so do all brave hearts . 
Then he spurred his horse forward and said no more to Stutely . 
Thus he kept his head bowed till they had passed through the gate and were outside the walls of the town . 
Yet betwixt him and them was a line of men at arms . 
Now , stand back ! cried the Sheriff in a mighty voice , for the crowd pressed around on all sides . 
Now stand thou back ! cried one of the men at arms whom Little John pushed with his elbows . 
Then with one stroke he cut the bonds that bound the other's arms and legs , and Stutely leaped straightway from the cart . 
Nay , good Sir Sheriff , cried he , leaping up again when the blow had passed , I must e'en borrow thy most worshipful sword . 
Stand back , Sheriff ! cried Little John and even as he spoke , a bugle horn sounded shrilly and a clothyard shaft whistled within an inch of the Sheriff's head . 
And some cried , Help , help ! and some , A rescue , a rescue ! Treason ! cried the Sheriff in a loud voice . 
Bear back ! Bear back ! Else we be all dead men ! Thereupon he reined his horse backward through the thickest of the crowd . 
Oh stay ! shouted Will Stutely after the Sheriff . 
Thou wilt never catch bold Robin Hood if thou dost not stand to meet him face to face . 
But the Sheriff , bowing along his horse's back , made no answer but only spurred the faster . 
Little John could make no answer , but wept also . 
But they left ten of the Sheriff's men lying along the ground wounded some more , some less yet no one knew who smote them down . 
I would sooner lose mine office than my life , so I will trouble them no more . 
Maybe I may bring him some time into Sherwood Forest and have him to a right merry feast with us . 
For when Robin Hood caught a baron or a squire , or a fat abbot or bishop , he brought them to the greenwood tree and feasted them before he lightened their purses . 
Then they had bouts of wrestling and of cudgel play , so that every day they gained in skill and strength . 
Thus they dwelled for nearly a year , and in that time Robin Hood often turned over in his mind many means of making an even score with the Sheriff . 
There , as he rambled along the sunlit road , he met a lusty young butcher driving a fine mare and riding in a stout new cart , all hung about with meat . 
Merrily whistled the Butcher as he jogged along , for he was going to the market , and the day was fresh and sweet , making his heart blithe within him . 
Good morrow to thee , jolly fellow , quoth Robin , thou seemest happy this merry morn . 
Now , where goest thou with thy meat , my fair friend ? I go to the market at Nottingham Town to sell my beef and my mutton , answered the Butcher . 
But who art thou that comest from Locksley Town ? A yeoman am I , and men do call me Robin Hood . 
Now , by Our Lady's grace , cried the Butcher , well do I know thy name , and many a time have I heard thy deeds both sung and spoken of . 
But come , tell me for what price thou wilt sell me all of thy meat and thy horse and cart . 
Then Robin Hood plucked the purse from his girdle , and quoth he , Here in this purse are six marks . 
Now , I would fain be a butcher for the day and sell my meat in Nottingham Town . 
Nay , quoth Robin , laughing loudly , many do like me and wish me well , but few call me honest . 
Now get thee gone back to thy lass , and give her a sweet kiss from me . 
So saying , he donned the Butcher's apron , and , climbing into the cart , he took the reins in his hand and drove off through the forest to Nottingham Town . 
When he came to Nottingham , he entered that part of the market where butchers stood , and took up his inn in the best place he could find . 
Now come , ye lasses , and eke ye dames , And buy your meat from me For three pennyworths of meat I sell For the charge of one penny . 
Lamb have I that hath fed upon nought But the dainty dames pied , And the violet sweet , and the daffodil That grow fair streams beside . 
And beef have I from the heathery words , And mutton from dales all green , And veal as white as a maiden's brow , With its mother's milk , I ween . 
Then come , ye lasses , and eke ye dames , Come , buy your meat from me , For three pennyworths of meat I sell For the charge of one penny . 
Thus he sang blithely , while all who stood near listened amazedly . 
Thus he sold his meat so fast that no butcher that stood near him could sell anything . 
And these latter being the greater number , the others came round , one by one to their way of thinking . 
Then some of the butchers came to him to make his acquaintance . 
There will be stout fare and much to drink , and that thou likest , or I much mistake thee . 
Now , beshrew his heart , quoth jolly Robin , that would deny a butcher . 
And , moreover , I will go dine with you all , my sweet lads , and that as fast as I can hie . 
Whereupon , having sold all his meat , he closed his stall and went with them to the great Guild Hall . 
There the Sheriff had already come in state , and with him many butchers . 
And others said , He is some prodigal that hath sold his land for silver and gold , and meaneth to spend all right merrily . 
So he made much of Robin , and laughed and talked with him more than with any of the others . 
Then he spake aloud to Robin , saying , Thou art a jolly young blade , and I love thee mightily and he smote Robin upon the shoulder . 
Then Robin laughed loudly too . 
Come , fill us some sack ! cried Robin . 
Mayhap , though , he will make the Sheriff mad . 
So let no man draw up his lip , nor thrust his forefinger into his purse , for I swear that neither butcher nor Sheriff shall pay one penny for this feast . 
As for my land , I have never asked my steward how many acres I have . 
At this the Sheriff's eyes twinkled , and he chuckled to himself . 
Now how much dost thou want for thy horned cattle ? Well , quoth Robin , they are worth at least five hundred pounds . 
Yet I will give thee three hundred pounds for them all , and that in good hard silver and gold . 
At this the Sheriff looked grimly at Robin . 
Nay , quoth Robin , look not on me as though thou hadst sour beer in thy mouth , man . 
I will take thine offer , for I and my brothers do need the money . 
We lead a merry life , and no one leads a merry life for a farthing , so I will close the bargain with thee . 
But mind that thou bringest a good three hundred pounds with thee , for I trust not one that driveth so shrewd a bargain . 
I will bring the money , said the Sheriff . 
But what is thy name , good youth ? Men call me Robert o' Locksley , quoth bold Robin . 
Then , good Robert o' Locksley , quoth the Sheriff , I will come this day to see thy horned beasts . 
But first my clerk shall draw up a paper in which thou shalt be bound to the sale , for thou gettest not my money without I get thy beasts in return . 
Then Robin Hood laughed again . 
So be it , he said , smiting his palm upon the Sheriff's hand . 
Truly my brothers will be thankful to thee for thy money . 
Then they set forth upon their way , the Sheriff riding upon his horse and Robin running beside him . 
Thus they left Nottingham Town and traveled forward along the dusty highway , laughing and jesting together as though they had been old friends . 
But all the time the Sheriff said within himself , Thy jest to me of Robin Hood shall cost thee dear , good fellow , even four hundred pounds , thou fool . 
For he thought he would make at least that much by his bargain . 
Now , quoth he , may Heaven and its saints preserve us this day from a rogue men call Robin Hood . 
But still they traveled deeper into the forest shades , and the deeper they went , the more quiet grew the Sheriff . 
At last they came to where the road took a sudden bend , and before them a herd of dun deer went tripping across the path . 
Then Robin Hood came close to the Sheriff and pointing his finger , he said , These are my horned beasts , good Master Sheriff . 
How dost thou like them ? Are they not fat and fair to see ? At this the Sheriff drew rein quickly . 
Now fellow , quoth he , I would I were well out of this forest , for I like not thy company . 
Go thou thine own path , good friend , and let me but go mine . 
But Robin only laughed and caught the Sheriff's bridle rein . 
Nay , cried he , stay awhile , for I would thou shouldst see my brothers , who own these fair horned beasts with me . 
So saying , he clapped his bugle to his mouth and winded three merry notes , and presently up the path came leaping fivescore good stout yeomen with Little John at their head . 
What wouldst thou have , good master ? quoth Little John . 
But all seemed humble and meek and not a word was said of danger , either to life or money . 
All this time nothing had been said of the Sheriff's money , so presently he began to pluck up heart . 
For , said he to himself , maybe Robin Hood hath forgotten all about it . 
Then all sat down and feasted and drank merrily together until the sun was low and the half moon glimmered with a pale light betwixt the leaves of the trees overhead . 
Then the Sheriff arose and said , I thank you all , good yeomen , for the merry entertainment ye have given me this day . 
Right courteously have ye used me , showing therein that ye have much respect for our glorious King and his deputy in brave Nottinghamshire . 
But the shadows grow long , and I must away before darkness comes , lest I lose myself within the forest . 
Nay , I forgot nought , said the Sheriff yet all the same his heart sank within him . 
But I say thou hast forgot something , quoth Robin . 
We keep a merry inn here in the greenwood , but whoever becometh our guest must pay his reckoning . 
Then the Sheriff laughed , but the laugh was hollow . 
Nay , quoth Robin seriously , it would ill beseem us to treat Your Worship so meanly . 
By my faith , Sir Sheriff , I would be ashamed to show my face if I did not reckon the King's deputy at three hundred pounds . 
Is it not so , my merry men all ? Then Ay ! cried all , in a loud voice . 
Three hundred devils ! roared the Sheriff . 
Think ye that your beggarly feast was worth three pounds , let alone three hundred ? Nay , quoth Robin gravely . 
Speak not so roundly , Your Worship . 
I do love thee for the sweet feast thou hast given me this day in merry Nottingham Town but there be those here who love thee not so much . 
Good Sheriff , be advised by me pay thy score without more ado , or maybe it may fare ill with thee . 
As he spoke the Sheriff's ruddy cheeks grew pale , and he said nothing more but looked upon the ground and gnawed his nether lip . 
Then slowly he drew forth his fat purse and threw it upon the cloth in front of him . 
Now take the purse , Little John , quoth Robin Hood , and see that the reckoning be right . 
We would not doubt our Sheriff , but he might not like it if he should find he had not paid his full score . 
Then Little John counted the money and found that the bag held three hundred pounds in silver and gold . 
But to the Sheriff it seemed as if every clink of the bright money was a drop of blood from his veins . 
And when he saw it all counted out in a heap of silver and gold , filling a wooden platter , he turned away and silently mounted his horse . 
Nay , Heaven forbid ! cried the Sheriff hastily . 
I can find mine own way , good man , without aid . 
Ne'er buy a horse , good friend , without first looking into its mouth , as our good gaffer Swanthold says . 
And so , once more , fare thee well . 
Then he clapped his hand to the horse's back , and off went nag and Sheriff through the forest glades . 
For thus men sometimes overreach themselves through greed and guile . 
Little John Goes to Nottingham Fair SPRING HAD GONE since the Sheriff's feast in Sherwood , and summer also , and the mellow month of October had come . 
All the air was cool and fresh the harvests were gathered home , the young birds were full fledged , the hops were plucked , and apples were ripe . 
With October had come the time for holding the great Fair which was celebrated every five years at Nottingham Town , to which folk came from far and near throughout the country . 
At last he fixed in his mind that he would offer such a prize as they would not care to shoot for . 
Nevertheless , if thou wilt go , take some disguise lest there be those there who may know thee . 
So be it , good master , quoth Little John , yet all the disguise that I wish is a good suit of scarlet instead of this of Lincoln green . 
I will draw the cowl of my jacket about my head so that it will hide my brown hair and beard , and then , I trust , no one will know me . 
So Little John clad himself all in scarlet and started off to the Fair at Nottingham Town . 
So Little John came to the Fair . 
All scarlet were his hose and jerkin , and scarlet was his cowled cap , with a scarlet feather stuck in the side of it . 
Over his shoulders was slung a stout bow of yew , and across his back hung a quiver of good round arrows . 
The lasses , also , looked at him askance , thinking they had never seen a lustier youth . 
Come hither , good yeoman , and thou , and thou for not a farthing shall one of you pay . 
Nay , turn hither , thou lusty beggar , and thou jolly tinker , for all shall be merry with me . 
One fellow there was that cracked crowns of everyone who threw cap into the ring . 
This was Eric o' Lincoln , of great renown , whose name had been sung in ballads throughout the countryside . 
Lincoln against Nottingham , say I ! For no one hath put foot upon the boards this day such as we of Lincoln call a cudgel player . 
Then Eric o' Lincoln laughed aloud . 
Well spoken for one who fears to meet me fairly , man to man , said he . 
Thereupon he cast the cudgel upon the stand and , leaping lightly after it , snatched it up in his hand again . 
Then those that stood around saw the stoutest game of quarterstaff that e'er Nottingham Town beheld . 
Right deftly he struck , and with great skill of fence , but he had found his match in Little John . 
Once , twice , thrice , he struck , and three times Little John turned the blows to the left hand and to the right . 
Then quickly and with a dainty backhanded blow , he rapped Eric beneath his guard so shrewdly that it made his head ring again . 
Then , after a while , they parted again , and this made the second bout . 
Then at last Little John saw his chance and seized it right cleverly . 
And thus ended the famous bout between Little John and Eric o' Lincoln of great renown . 
Near the target , in a good place , sat the Sheriff upon a raised dais , with many gentlefolk around him . 
Who is yon stranger clad all in scarlet ? said some , and others answered , It is he that hath but now so soundly cracked the crown of Eric o' Lincoln . 
Thus the people talked among themselves , until at last it reached even the Sheriff's ears . 
Then the Sheriff stepped down from the raised seat and came to where the archers stood , while all doffed their caps that saw him coming . 
Mayhap it may be so , quoth Little John , for often have I seen Your Worship . 
And , as he spoke , he looked steadily into the Sheriff's eyes so that the latter did not suspect who he was . 
A brave blade art thou , good friend , said the Sheriff , and I hear that thou hast well upheld the skill of Nottinghamshire against that of Lincoln this day . 
At this arose a great shout , many casting their caps aloft , for joy of the gift . 
Then some built great fires and roasted the steers , and others broached the butt of ale , with which all made themselves merry . 
But long before this merrymaking had begun , the Sheriff and his new servant Reynold Greenleaf were in the Castle of Nottingham . 
Thus things floated easily along with the tide , until one day when the Sheriff went a hunting , there happened that which broke the smooth surface of things . 
This morning the Sheriff and many of his men set forth to meet certain lords , to go a hunting . 
As for Little John , he lay abed , snoring lustily , till the sun was high in the heavens . 
At last he opened his eyes and looked about him but did not move to arise . 
Just then he heard , faint and far away , a distant bugle note sounding thin and clear . 
Then he said aloud , Here I grow fat like a stall fed ox and all my manliness departeth from me while I become a sluggard and dolt . 
But I will arouse me and go back to mine own dear friends once more , and never will I leave them again till life doth leave my lips . 
So saying , he leaped from bed , for he hated his sluggishness now . 
When he came downstairs he saw the Steward standing near the pantry door a great , fat man , with a huge bundle of keys hanging to his girdle . 
Then Little John said , Ho , Master Steward , a hungry man am I , for nought have I had for all this blessed morn . 
Therefore , give me to eat . 
Then the Steward looked grimly at him and rattled the keys in his girdle , for he hated Little John because he had found favor with the Sheriff . 
So , Master Reynold Greenleaf , thou art anhungered , art thou ? quoth he . 
But , fair youth , if thou livest long enough , thou wilt find that he who getteth overmuch sleep for an idle head goeth with an empty stomach . 
Then fetch it hither ! cried Little John , who waxed angry by this time . 
Go thou and fetch it thine own self , quoth the Steward . 
And , so saying , he strode to the pantry and tried to open the door but found it locked , whereat the Steward laughed and rattled his keys . 
At this Little John turned upon the Steward and smote him such a buffet that the fat man fell to the floor and lay there as though he would never move again . 
There , quoth Little John , think well of that stroke and never keep a good breakfast from a hungry man again . 
So saying , he crept into the pantry and looked about him to see if he could find something to appease his hunger . 
These he took down from the shelves and placed upon a sideboard , and prepared to make himself merry . 
Good Cook , I love thee well , and thou shalt have a good pottle of our master's best wine every day , for thou art an old and faithful servant . 
Also , good Cook , I have ten shillings that I mean to give as a gift to thee . 
Get thee gone straightway to thy room , and I will bring out this knave by his ears . 
Then the Cook walked straightway to the broken pantry door , through which he saw Little John tucking a napkin beneath his chin and preparing to make himself merry . 
Why , how now , Reynold Greenleaf ? said the Cook , thou art no better than a thief , I wot . 
Come thou straight forth , man , or I will carve thee as I would carve a sucking pig . 
Nay , good Cook , bear thou thyself more seemingly , or else I will come forth to thy dole . 
At most times I am as a yearling lamb , but when one cometh between me and my meat , I am a raging lion , as it were . 
Lion or no lion , quoth the valorous Cook , come thou straight forth , else thou art a coward heart as well as a knavish thief . 
Hold , good Cook ! said he . 
Now , I bethink me it were ill of us to fight with good victuals standing so nigh , and such a feast as would befit two stout fellows such as we are . 
Marry , good friend , I think we should enjoy this fair feast ere we fight . 
What sayest thou , jolly Cook ? At this speech the Cook looked up and down , scratching his head in doubt , for he loved good feasting . 
So each thrust his sword back into the scabbard and entered the pantry . 
Then , after they had seated themselves , Little John drew his dagger and thrust it into the pie . 
A hungry man must be fed , quoth he , so , sweet chuck , I help myself without leave . 
But the Cook did not lag far behind , for straightway his hands also were deeply thrust within the goodly pasty . 
After this , neither of them spoke further , but used their teeth to better purpose . 
But though neither spoke , they looked at one another , each thinking within himself that he had never seen a more lusty fellow than the one across the board . 
Little John , also , had enough , for he pushed the pasty aside , as though he would say , I want thee by me no more , good friend . 
Lo ! I drink thy health . 
So saying , he clapped the flask to his lips and cast his eyes aloft , while the good wine flooded his throat . 
Now , quoth Little John , thy voice is right round and sweet , jolly lad . 
Nay , truly , said Little John , that were but ill courtesy . 
Strike up thy ditty , and I will afterward sing one to match it , if I can . 
So be it , pretty boy , quoth the Cook . 
And hast thou e'er heard the song of the Deserted Shepherdess ? Truly , I know not , answered Little John , but sing thou and let me hear . 
The thrush hath taken him a she , The robin , too , and eke the dove My Robin hath deserted me , And left me for another love . 
So here , by brookside , all alone , I sit me down and make my moan . 
O willow , willow , willow , willow ! I'll take me of thy branches fair And twine a wreath to deck my hair . 
But ne'er came herring from the sea , But good as he were in the tide Young Corydon came o'er the lea , And sat him Phillis down beside . 
Now , by my faith , cried Little John , that same is a right good song , and hath truth in it , also . 
Glad am I thou likest it , sweet lad , said the Cook . 
Now sing thou one also , for ne'er should a man be merry alone , or sing and list not . 
Among them all , both great and small , A good stout knight was there , A lusty childe , and eke a tall , That loved a lady fair . 
But nought would she to do with he , But turned her face away So gat he gone to far countrye , And left that lady gay . 
There all alone he made his moan , And eke did sob and sigh , And weep till it would move a stone , And he was like to die . 
But still his heart did feel the smart , And eke the dire distress , And rather grew his pain more sharp As grew his body less . 
Then gat he back where was good sack And merry com panye , And soon did cease to cry Alack ! When blithe and gay was he . 
From which I hold , and feel full bold To say , and eke believe , That gin the belly go not cold The heart will cease to grieve . 
And I love thee , too . 
But the day draweth on , and I have my cooking to do ere our master cometh home so let us e'en go and settle this brave fight we have in hand . 
Ay , marry , quoth Little John , and that right speedily . 
Never have I been more laggard in fighting than in eating and drinking . 
So come thou straight forth into the passageway , where there is good room to swing a sword , and I will try to serve thee . 
Then their swords clashed upon one another with great din , and sparks flew from each blow in showers . 
Ever and anon they rested , panting then , after getting their wind , at it they would go again more fiercely than ever . 
At last Little John cried aloud , Hold , good Cook ! whereupon each rested upon his sword , panting . 
Now will I make my vow , quoth Little John , thou art the very best swordsman that ever mine eyes beheld . 
Truly , I had thought to carve thee ere now . 
And I had thought to do the same by thee , quoth the Cook , but I have missed the mark somehow . 
Now I have been thinking within myself , quoth Little John , what we are fighting for but albeit I do not rightly know . 
Why , no more do I , said the Cook . 
I bear no love for that pursy Steward , but I thought that we had engaged to fight with one another and that it must be done . 
Now , quoth Little John , it doth seem to me that instead of striving to cut one another's throats , it were better for us to be boon companions . 
Thou shalt have three suits of Lincoln green each year , and forty marks in pay . 
Now , thou art a man after mine own heart ! cried the Cook right heartily , and , as thou speakest of it , that is the very service for me . 
I will go with thee , and that right gladly . 
Give me thy palm , sweet fellow , and I will be thine own companion from henceforth . 
What may be thy name , lad ? Men do call me Little John , good fellow . 
And thou art indeed the famous Little John ! And the Cook seemed lost in amazement , and looked upon his companion with open eyes . 
I am Little John , indeed , and I will bring to Robin Hood this day a right stout fellow to join his merry band . 
Ay , marry is it , said the Cook . 
Plunging into the woods , they came at last to the greenwood tree , where they found Robin Hood and threescore of his merry men lying upon the fresh green grass . 
When Robin and his men saw who it was that came , they leaped to their feet . 
Now welcome ! cried Robin Hood . 
Now welcome , Little John ! For long hath it been since we have heard from thee , though we all knew that thou hadst joined the Sheriff's service . 
And how hast thou fared all these long days ? Right merrily have I lived at the Lord Sheriff's , answered Little John , and I have come straight thence . 
See , good master ! I have brought thee his cook , and even his silver plate . 
Thereupon he told Robin Hood and his merry men that were there , all that had befallen him since he had left them to go to the Fair at Nottingham Town . 
Then all shouted with laughter , except Robin Hood but he looked grave . 
Nay , Little John , said he , thou art a brave blade and a trusty fellow . 
I am glad thou hast brought thyself back to us , and with such a good companion as the Cook , whom we all welcome to Sherwood . 
But I like not so well that thou hast stolen the Sheriff's plate like some paltry thief . 
Though Little John was vexed with this , he strove to pass it off with a jest . 
So saying he leaped to his feet , and was gone before Robin could call him back . 
Little John ran for full five miles till he came to where the Sheriff of Nottingham and a gay company were hunting near the forest . 
When Little John came to the Sheriff he doffed his cap and bent his knee . 
God save thee , good master , quoth he . 
Yet I dared not shoot , good master , for fear lest they should slay me . 
But thou must come alone , good master , lest the others frighten them and they get away . 
So the party all rode forward , and Little John led them downward into the forest . 
Now , good master , quoth he at last , we are nigh where I saw this herd . 
See , good Master Sheriff , quoth Little John , yonder is the hart of which I spake to thee . 
At this the Sheriff turned to Little John and said bitterly , Long ago I thought I remembered thy face , but now I know thee . 
Woe betide thee , Little John , for thou hast betrayed me this day . 
In the meantime Robin Hood had come to them . 
Now welcome , Master Sheriff , said he . 
Hast thou come today to take another feast with me ? Nay , Heaven forbid ! said the Sheriff in tones of deep earnest . 
I care for no feast and have no hunger today . 
Nevertheless , quoth Robin , if thou hast no hunger , maybe thou hast thirst , and well I know thou wilt take a cup of sack with me . 
But I am grieved that thou wilt not feast with me , for thou couldst have victuals to thy liking , for there stands thy Cook . 
Then he led the Sheriff , willy nilly , to the seat he knew so well beneath the greenwood tree . 
Ho , lads ! cried Robin , fill our good friend the Sheriff a right brimming cup of sack and fetch it hither , for he is faint and weary . 
How now , quoth Robin , dost thou not like our new silver service ? We have gotten a bag of it this day . 
So saying , he held up the sack of silver that Little John and the Cook had brought with them . 
Then the Sheriff's heart was bitter within him but , not daring to say anything , he only gazed upon the ground . 
Robin looked keenly at him for a time before he spoke again . 
Therefore , take thou thine own again , nor will I dispossess thee today of so much as one farthing . 
Come with me , and I will lead thee from the forest back to thine own party again . 
Then , slinging the bag upon his shoulder , he turned away , the Sheriff following him , all too perplexed in mind to speak . 
So they went forward until they came to within a furlong of the spot where the Sheriff's companions were waiting for him . 
Then Robin Hood gave the sack of silver back to the Sheriff . 
Take thou thine own again , he said , and hearken to me , good Sheriff , take thou a piece of advice with it . 
Try thy servants well ere thou dost engage them again so readily . 
Then , turning , he left the other standing bewildered , with the sack in his hands . 
And thus ends the merry tale of Little John and how he entered the Sheriff's service . 
Suddenly Robin Hood smote his knee . 
By Saint Dunstan , quoth he , I had nigh forgot that quarter day cometh on apace , and yet no cloth of Lincoln green in all our store . 
It must be looked to , and that in quick season . 
Come , busk thee , Little John ! Stir those lazy bones of thine , for thou must get thee straightway to our good gossip , the draper Hugh Longshanks of Ancaster . 
Nay , quoth Robin Hood , laughing louder than all . 
Heaven forbid that I should doubt thee , for I care for no taste of thy staff myself , Little John . 
Bide thou here till I bring thee money to pay our good Hugh . 
I warrant he hath no better customers in all Nottinghamshire than we . 
So saying , Robin left them and entered the forest . 
Here Little John suddenly ceased whistling and stopped in the middle of the path . 
First he looked up and then he looked down , and then , tilting his cap over one eye , he slowly scratched the back part of his head . 
So , without more ado , off he strode down the path that lay the way of his likings . 
Now there was no sign of any foul weather , but when one wishes to do a thing , as Little John did , one finds no lack of reasons for the doing . 
Four merry wags were at the Blue Boar Inn a butcher , a beggar , and two barefoot friars . 
Little John heard them singing from afar , as he walked through the hush of the mellow twilight that was now falling over hill and dale . 
Right glad were they to welcome such a merry blade as Little John . 
Fresh cans of ale were brought , and with jest and song and merry tales the hours slipped away on fleeting wings . 
In the good town of Blyth there lived a stout tanner , celebrated far and near for feats of strength and many tough bouts at wrestling and the quarterstaff . 
Now Arthur had been to Nottingham Town the day before Little John set forth on his errand , there to sell a halfscore of tanned cowhides . 
At the dawn of the same day that Little John left the inn , he started from Nottingham , homeward for Blyth . 
His way led , all in the dewy morn , past the verge of Sherwood Forest , where the birds were welcoming the lovely day with a great and merry jubilee . 
Mayhap I may chance to catch a sight of the dainty brown darlings thus early in the morn . 
For there was nothing he loved better than to look upon a tripping herd of deer , even when he could not tickle their ribs with a clothyard shaft . 
Nay , quoth he again , after a time , this matter must e'en be looked into . 
So , quitting the highroad , he also entered the thickets , and began spying around after stout Arthur a Bland . 
So for a long time they both of them went hunting about , Little John after the Tanner , and the Tanner after the deer . 
At last Little John trod upon a stick , which snapped under his foot , whereupon , hearing the noise , the Tanner turned quickly and caught sight of the yeoman . 
Seeing that the Tanner had spied him out , Little John put a bold face upon the matter . 
Nay , quoth the Tanner boldly for , though taken by surprise , he was not a man to be frightened by big words thou liest in thy teeth . 
I am no thief , but an honest craftsman . 
As for my countenance , it is what it is and , for the matter of that , thine own is none too pretty , thou saucy fellow . 
Ha ! quoth Little John in a great loud voice , wouldst thou give me backtalk ? Now I have a great part of a mind to crack thy pate for thee . 
I would have thee know , fellow , that I am , as it were , one of the King's foresters . 
Leastwise , muttered he to himself , I and my friends do take good care of our good sovereign's deer . 
Is it so ? cried Little John in a rage . 
Take thy staff in thy hand , fellow , for I will not smite an unarmed man . 
Marry come up with a murrain ! cried the Tanner , for he , too , had talked himself into a fume . 
Big words ne'er killed so much as a mouse . 
Let us first measure our cudgels . 
I do reckon my staff longer than thine , and I would not take vantage of thee by even so much as an inch . 
Nay , I pass not for length , answered the Tanner . 
My staff is long enough to knock down a calf so look to thyself , fellow , I say again . 
So , without more ado , each gripped his staff in the middle , and , with fell and angry looks , they came slowly together . 
At this , Robin Hood stopped and listened . 
Surely , quoth he to himself , that is Little John's voice , and he is talking in anger also . 
Methinks the other is strange to my ears . 
Now Heaven forfend that my good trusty Little John should have fallen into the hands of the King's rangers . 
I must see to this matter , and that quickly . 
Ha ! quoth Robin to himself , here is merry sport afoot . 
I fear me , though , there is but poor chance of my seeing such a pleasant sight . 
All this time Robin Hood lay beneath the bush , rejoicing at such a comely bout of quarterstaff . 
By my faith ! quoth he to himself , never had I thought to see Little John so evenly matched in all my life . 
Belike , though , he would have overcome yon fellow before this had he been in his former trim . 
And now did the Tanner's cowhide cap stand him in good stead , and but for it he might never have held staff in hand again . 
Then , raising his staff , stout Arthur dealt him another blow upon the ribs . 
Hold ! roared Little John . 
Wouldst thou strike a man when he is down ? Ay , marry would I , quoth the Tanner , giving him another thwack with his staff . 
Stop ! roared Little John . 
Ay , marry , and more than enough . 
Then thou mayst go thy ways and thank thy patron saint that I am a merciful man , said the Tanner . 
A plague o' such mercy as thine ! said Little John , sitting up and feeling his ribs where the Tanner had cudgeled him . 
I make my vow , my ribs feel as though every one of them were broken in twain . 
I tell thee , good fellow , I did think there was never a man in all Nottinghamshire could do to me what thou hast done this day . 
And so thought I , also , cried Robin Hood , bursting out of the thicket and shouting with laughter till the tears ran down his cheeks . 
O man , man ! said he , as well as he could for his mirth , 'a didst go over like a bottle knocked from a wall . 
I did see the whole merry bout , and never did I think to see thee yield thyself so , hand and foot , to any man in all merry England . 
So spoke bold Robin , and all the time Little John sat upon the ground , looking as though he had sour curds in his mouth . 
What may be thy name , good fellow ? said Robin , next , turning to the Tanner . 
Thou didst break the crown of a friend of mine at the fair at Ely last October . 
The folk there call him Jock o' Nottingham we call him Will Scathelock . 
This poor fellow whom thou hast so belabored is counted the best hand at the quarterstaff in all merry England . 
His name is Little John , and mine Robin Hood . 
Let me help thee to thy feet , good Master Little John , and let me brush the dust from off thy coat . 
Will I join thy band ? cried the Tanner joyfully . 
There are other inns that thou knowest yet , hereabouts . 
Thereupon , leaving the thickets , they took once more to the highway and departed upon their business . 
Robin Hood and Will Scarlet THUS THEY traveled along the sunny road , three stout fellows such as you could hardly match anywhere else in all merry England . 
Many stopped to gaze after them as they strode along , so broad were their shoulders and so sturdy their gait . 
I feared the rain that threatened , said Little John in a sullen tone , for he was vexed at being so chaffed by Robin with what had happened to him . 
The rain ! cried Robin , stopping of a sudden in the middle of the road , and looking at Little John in wonder . 
Heyday ! quoth he , yon is a gaily feathered bird , I take my vow . 
The others looked and saw a young man walking slowly down the highway . 
His hair was long and yellow and curled upon his shoulders , and in his hand he bore an early rose , which he smelled at daintily now and then . 
I take my vow , there be no bread and milk limbs in those fine clothes , but stiff joints and tough thews . 
Methinks thou art right , friend Arthur , said Little John . 
I do verily think that yon is no such roseleaf and whipped cream gallant as he would have one take him to be . 
I wonder who he may be . 
Some great baron's son , I doubt not , answered Little John , with good and true men's money lining his purse . 
Ay , marry , that is true , I make no doubt , quoth Robin . 
He may be a good man and true for aught thou knowest . 
Nay , said Robin , my head against a leaden farthing , he is what I say . 
So , lie ye both here , I say , till I show you how I drub this fellow . 
Hold ! cried Robin , when at last the other had come close to him . 
Hold ! Stand where thou art ! Wherefore should I hold , good fellow ? said the stranger in soft and gentle voice . 
Then , quoth Robin , as thou dost so fairly do as I tell thee , and dost give me such soft speech , I will also treat thee with all due courtesy . 
Wherefore , upon such as come hereabouts , I levy a certain toll , which I use for a better purpose , I hope , than to make candlesticks withal . 
For , as our good Gaffer Swanthold sayeth , He who is fat from overliving must needs lose blood . 
All this time the youth had been sniffing at the rose that he held betwixt his thumb and finger . 
I have yet some little time to stay . 
I will take none from thee if thou hast but little . 
Alas ! It doth grieve me much , said the other , that I cannot do as thou dost wish . 
I have nothing to give thee . 
Let me go my way , I prythee . 
I have done thee no harm . 
Nay , thou goest not , quoth Robin , till thou hast shown me thy purse . 
Good friend , said the other gently , I have business elsewhere . 
I have given thee much time and have heard thee patiently . 
Prythee , let me depart in peace . 
So saying , he raised his quarterstaff above his head in a threatening way . 
Alas ! said the stranger sadly , it doth grieve me that this thing must be . 
I fear much that I must slay thee , thou poor fellow ! So saying , he drew his sword . 
Put by thy weapon , quoth Robin . 
I would take no vantage of thee . 
Thy sword cannot stand against an oaken staff such as mine . 
I could snap it like a barley straw . 
Yonder is a good oaken thicket by the roadside take thee a cudgel thence and defend thyself fairly , if thou hast a taste for a sound drubbing . 
First the stranger measured Robin with his eye , and then he measured the oaken staff . 
Thou art right , good fellow , said he presently , truly , my sword is no match for that cudgel of thine . 
Bide thee awhile till I get me a staff . 
Choosing among them , he presently found a sapling to his liking . 
Then he came back , trimming away the roots and tender stems with his sword as quietly as if he had done nought to speak of . 
By Our Lady , he plucked up yon green tree as it were a barley straw . 
Whatever Robin Hood thought , he stood his ground , and now he and the stranger in scarlet stood face to face . 
Well did Robin Hood hold his own that day as a mid country yeoman . 
This way and that they fought , and back and forth , Robin's skill against the stranger's strength . 
Hold ! cried Robin Hood , when he saw the stranger raising his staff once more . 
I yield me ! Hold ! cried Little John , bursting from his cover , with the Tanner at his heels . 
Nevertheless , come on , and I will strive my best to serve you all . 
Stop ! cried Robin Hood , we will fight no more . 
I take my vow , this is an ill day for thee and me , Little John . 
I do verily believe that my wrist , and eke my arm , are palsied by the jar of the blow that this stranger struck me . 
Then Little John turned to Robin Hood . 
Why , how now , good master , said he . 
Alas ! Thou art in an ill plight . 
Marry , thy jerkin is all befouled with the dust of the road . 
Let me help thee to arise . 
A plague on thy aid ! cried Robin angrily . 
I can get to my feet without thy help , good fellow . 
Nay , but let me at least dust thy coat for thee . 
I fear thy poor bones are mightily sore , quoth Little John soberly , but with a sly twinkle in his eyes . 
Give over , I say ! quoth Robin in a fume . 
My coat hath been dusted enough already , without aid of thine . 
Then , turning to the stranger , he said , What may be thy name , good fellow ? My name is Gamwell , answered the other . 
Ha ! cried Robin , is it even so ? I have near kin of that name . 
Whence camest thou , fair friend ? From Maxfield Town I come , answered the stranger . 
There was I born and bred , and thence I come to seek my mother's young brother , whom men call Robin Hood . 
So , if perchance thou mayst direct me Ha ! Will Gamwell ! cried Robin , placing both hands upon the other's shoulders and holding him off at arm's length . 
Surely , it can be none other ! I might have known thee by that pretty maiden air of thine that dainty , finicking manner of gait . 
Dost thou not know me , lad ? Look upon me well . 
Now , by the breath of my body ! cried the other , I do believe from my heart that thou art mine own Uncle Robin . 
Nay , certain it is so ! And each flung his arms around the other , kissing him upon the cheek . 
Then once more Robin held his kinsman off at arm's length and scanned him keenly from top to toe . 
I trust I did thee no great harm . 
No , no , quoth Robin hastily , and looking sideways at Little John , thou didst not harm me . 
But say no more of that , I prythee . 
Yet I will say , lad , that I hope I may never feel again such a blow as thou didst give me . 
By'r Lady , my arm doth tingle yet from fingernail to elbow . 
Truly , I thought that I was palsied for life . 
I tell thee , coz , that thou art the strongest man that ever I laid mine eyes upon . 
I take my vow , I felt my stomach quake when I beheld thee pluck up yon green tree as thou didst . 
Well , one day and an ill day it was for that saucy fellow he sought to berate my father , I standing by . 
I think they said I broke his neck , or something o' the like . 
So off they packed me to seek thee and escape the law . 
I was on my way when thou sawest me , and here I am . 
Moreover , I do verily believe that this overstrength of my body hath taken the nimbleness out of my heels . 
Why , thou didst but just now rap me thrice , and I thee never a once , save by overbearing thee by my strength . 
Nay , quoth Robin , let us say no more on that score . 
I am right glad to see thee , Will , and thou wilt add great honor and credit to my band of merry fellows . 
But thou must change thy name , for warrants will be out presently against thee so , because of thy gay clothes , thou shalt henceforth and for aye be called Will Scarlet . 
Will Scarlet , quoth Little John , stepping forward and reaching out his great palm , which the other took , Will Scarlet , the name fitteth thee well . 
Right glad am I to welcome thee among us . 
I am called Little John and this is a new member who has just joined us , a stout tanner named Arthur a Bland . 
Nay , good Little John , quoth Robin gently , for he liked ill to have such a jest told of him . 
Why should we speak of this little matter ? Prythee , let us keep this day's doings among ourselves . 
With all my heart , quoth Little John . 
It is well , quoth Little John , for in truth I myself have tired of it somewhat . 
I remember me now it did seem to threaten rain . 
If thou wilt have it so , thou wert right to abide wherever thou didst choose . 
Once more , it is well , quoth Little John . 
As for myself , I have been blind this day . 
Come , cried Robin , biting his nether lip , while the others could not forbear laughing . 
We will go no farther today , but will return to Sherwood , and thou shalt go to Ancaster another time , Little John . 
So said Robin , for now that his bones were sore , he felt as though a long journey would be an ill thing for him . 
So , turning their backs , they retraced their steps whence they came . 
The Adventure with Midge the Miller's Son WHEN THE four yeomen had traveled for a long time toward Sherwood again , high noontide being past , they began to wax hungry . 
Quoth Robin Hood , I would that I had somewhat to eat . 
Methinks a good loaf of white bread , with a piece of snow white cheese , washed down with a draught of humming ale , were a feast for a king . 
Since thou speakest of it , said Will Scarlet , methinks it would not be amiss myself . 
For the matter of that , thou knowest I have money by me , good master , quoth Little John . 
Why , so thou hast , Little John , said Robin . 
Then give him six pennies , Little John , quoth Robin , for methinks food for three men will about fit my need . 
So Little John gave Arthur the money , and the others stepped to the thicket , there to await the return of the Tanner . 
Then Will Scarlet took his sword and divided the loaf and the cheese into four fair portions , and each man helped himself . 
Then Robin Hood took a deep pull at the beer . 
Aha ! said he , drawing in his breath , never have I tasted sweeter drink than this . 
After this no man spake more , but each munched away at his bread and cheese lustily , with ever and anon a pull at the beer . 
At last Will Scarlet looked at a small piece of bread he still held in his hand , and quoth he , Methinks I will give this to the sparrows . 
So , throwing it from him , he brushed the crumbs from his jerkin . 
I , too , quoth Robin , have had enough , I think . 
As for Little John and the Tanner , they had by this time eaten every crumb of their bread and cheese . 
Now , quoth Robin , I do feel myself another man , and would fain enjoy something pleasant before going farther upon our journey . 
I do bethink me , Will , that thou didst use to have a pretty voice , and one that tuned sweetly upon a song . 
Prythee , give us one ere we journey farther . 
Truly , I do not mind turning a tune , answered Will Scarlet , but I would not sing alone . 
Nay , others will follow . 
Strike up , lad , quoth Robin . 
In that case , 'tis well , said Will Scarlet . 
I do call to mind a song that a certain minstrel used to sing in my father's hall , upon occasion . 
I know no name for it and so can give you none but thus it is . 
But the robin I love dear , For he singeth through the year . 
Robin ! Robin ! Merry Robin ! So I'd have my true love be Not to fly At the nigh Sign of cold adversity . 
But the ivy green cloth grow When the north wind bringeth snow . 
Ivy ! Ivy ! Stanch and true ! Thus I'd have her love to be Not to die At the nigh Breath of cold adversity . 
Yet , thou didst sing it fair , and 'tis none so bad a snatch of a song , for the matter of that . 
Now , Tanner , it is thy turn . 
Nay , sing up , friend , quoth Little John , who sat next to him , patting him upon the shoulder . 
Thou hast a fair , round , mellow voice let us have a touch of it . 
Nay , an ye will ha' a poor thing , said Arthur , I will do my best . 
Sat Lancelot with raven locks , Gawaine with golden hair , Sir Tristram , Kay who kept the locks , And many another there . 
And through the stained windows bright , From o'er the red tiled eaves , The sunlight blazed with colored light On golden helms and greaves . 
But suddenly a silence came About the Table Round , For up the hall there walked a dame Bent nigh unto the ground . 
Her nose was hooked , her eyes were bleared , Her locks were lank and white Upon her chin there grew a beard She was a gruesome sight . 
And so with crawling step she came And kneeled at Arthur's feet Quoth Kay , She is the foulest dame That e'er my sight did greet . 
O mighty King ! of thee I crave A boon on bended knee' 'Twas thus she spoke . 
There is no rest , no ease for me North , east , or west , or south , Till Christian knight will willingly Thrice kiss me on the mouth . 
Nor wedded may this childe have been That giveth ease to me Nor may he be constrained , I ween , But kiss me willingly . 
Now , Lancelot , in all men's sight Thou art the head and chief Of chivalry . 
Come , noble knight , And give her quick relief . 
But Lancelot he turned aside And looked upon the ground , For it did sting his haughty pride To hear them laugh around . 
Come thou , Sir Tristram , quoth the King . 
Quoth he , It cannot be , For ne'er can I my stomach bring To do it willingly . 
Sir Geraint ? Nay , not I My kisses no relief could bring , For sooner would I die . 
Then up and spake the youngest man Of all about the board , 'Now such relief as Christian can I'll give to her , my lord . 
It was Sir Keith , a youthful knight , Yet strong of limb and bold , With beard upon his chin as light As finest threads of gold . 
Quoth Kay , He hath no mistress yet That he may call his own , But here is one that's quick to get , As she herself has shown . 
He kissed her once , he kissed her twice , He kissed her three times o'er , A wondrous change came in a trice , And she was foul no more . 
Her cheeks grew red as any rose , Her brow as white as lawn , Her bosom like the winter snows , Her eyes like those of fawn . 
Her breath grew sweet as summer breeze That blows the meadows o'er Her voice grew soft as rustling trees , And cracked and harsh no more . 
Her hair grew glittering , like the gold , Her hands as white as milk Her filthy rags , so foul and old , Were changed to robes of silk . 
In great amaze the knights did stare . 
Quoth Kay , I make my vow If it will please thee , lady fair , I'll gladly kiss thee now . 
But young Sir Keith kneeled on one knee And kissed her robes so fair . 
O let me be thy slave , said he , For none to thee compare . 
She bent her down , she kissed his brow , She kissed his lips and eyes . 
Bewitched was I , in bitter pain , But thou hast set me free , So now I am myself again , I give myself to thee . 
Nay , man , never look down in the mouth . 
Clear thy pipes and sing us a ditty . 
Nay , said Little John , I have none as fair as that merry Arthur has trolled . 
They are all poor things that I know . 
Moreover , my voice is not in tune today , and I would not spoil even a tolerable song by ill singing . 
Quoth he , Well , an ye will ha' it so , I will give you what I can . 
I know not , quoth Little John in a surly voice . 
But this I do know , that it is an ill thing to do to check the flow of a good song . 
Look , Little John , I pray , and see if thou knowest him . 
Little John looked whither Robin Hood pointed . 
Now thou speakest of him , quoth Robin Hood , methinks I myself have seen him now and then . 
Hath he not a mill over beyond Nottingham Town , nigh to the Salisbury road ? Thou art right that is the man , said Little John . 
A good stout fellow , quoth Robin . 
I saw him crack Ned o' Bradford's crown about a fortnight since , and never saw I hair lifted more neatly in all my life before . 
By this time the young miller had come so near that they could see him clearly . 
His limbs were stout and strong , and he strode along the dusty road right sturdily with the heavy sack across his shoulders . 
His cheeks were ruddy as a winter hip , his hair was flaxen in color , and on his chin was a downy growth of flaxen beard . 
A good honest fellow , quoth Robin Hood , and such an one as is a credit to English yeomanrie . 
Now let us have a merry jest with him . 
We will forth as though we were common thieves and pretend to rob him of his honest gains . 
Then will we take him into the forest and give him a feast such as his stomach never held in all his life before . 
We will flood his throat with good canary and send him home with crowns in his purse for every penny he hath . 
What say ye , lads ? Truly , it is a merry thought , said Will Scarlet . 
Thy foolish tongue will get us both well laughed at yet . 
My foolish tongue , forsooth , growled Little John to Arthur a Bland . 
I would it could keep our master from getting us into another coil this day . 
But now the Miller , plodding along the road , had come opposite to where the yeomen lay hidden , whereupon all four of them ran at him and surrounded him . 
Who bids me stay ? said the Miller in a voice deep and gruff , like the growl of a great dog . 
Marry , that do I , quoth Robin and let me tell thee , friend , thou hadst best mind my bidding . 
I give you all thanks , said the Miller , but my bag is none that heavy that I cannot carry it e'en by myself . 
Nay , thou dost mistake , quoth Robin , I meant that thou mightest perhaps have some heavy farthings or pence about thee , not to speak of silver and gold . 
Our good Gaffer Swanthold sayeth that gold is an overheavy burden for a two legged ass to carry so we would e'en lift some of this load from thee . 
Alas ! cried the Miller , what would ye do to me ? I have not about me so much as a clipped groat . 
Do me no harm , I pray you , but let me depart in peace . 
In truth I fear Robin Hood no more than I do myself , quoth jolly Robin . 
Thou must this day give up to me every penny thou hast about thee . 
Nay , if thou dost budge an inch I will rattle this staff about thine ears . 
Nay , smite me not ! cried the Miller , throwing up his elbow as though he feared the blow . 
Thou mayst search me if thou wilt , but thou wilt find nothing upon me , pouch , pocket , or skin . 
Is it so ? quoth Robin Hood , looking keenly upon him . 
Now I believe that what thou tellest is no true tale . 
If I am not much mistook thou hast somewhat in the bottom of that fat sack of meal . 
Good Arthur , empty the bag upon the ground I warrant thou wilt find a shilling or two in the flour . 
Alas ! cried the Miller , falling upon his knees , spoil not all my good meal ! It can better you not , and will ruin me . 
Spare it , and I will give up the money in the bag . 
Ha ! quoth Robin , nudging Will Scarlet . 
Is it so ? And have I found where thy money lies ? Marry , I have a wondrous nose for the blessed image of good King Harry . 
I thought that I smelled gold and silver beneath the barley meal . 
Bring it straight forth , Miller . 
The others gathered round him , their heads together , looking and wondering what he would bring forth . 
So they stood , all with their heads close together gazing down into the sack . 
But while he pretended to be searching for the money , the Miller gathered two great handfuls of meal . 
Ha , quoth he , here they are , the beauties . 
Then catching up his great crabstaff , the Miller began laying about him as though he were clean gone mad . 
This way and that skipped the four , like peas on a drumhead , but they could see neither to defend themselves nor to run away . 
Stop ! roared Robin at last . 
Stout Robin never robbed an honest tradesman . 
Ha ! thou wouldst have my money , wouldst thou ? And he gave him another blow . 
Nay , thou art not getting thy share , thou long legged knave . 
And he smote Little John across the shoulders so that he sent him skipping half across the road . 
Nay , fear not , it is thy turn now , black beard . 
And he gave the Tanner a crack that made him roar for all his coughing . 
How now , red coat , let me brush the dust from thee ! cried he , smiting Will Scarlet . 
And so he gave them merry words and blows until they could scarcely stand , and whenever he saw one like to clear his eyes he threw more flour in his face . 
At last Robin Hood found his horn and clapping it to his lips , blew three loud blasts upon it . 
Now it chanced that Will Stutely and a party of Robin's men were in the glade not far from where this merry sport was going forward . 
Hearing the hubbub of voices , and blows that sounded like the noise of a flail in the barn in wintertime , they stopped , listening and wondering what was toward . 
Quoth Will Stutely , Now if I mistake not there is some stout battle with cudgels going forward not far hence . 
I would fain see this pretty sight . 
So saying , he and the whole party turned their steps whence the noise came . 
When they had come near where all the tumult sounded they heard the three blasts of Robin's bugle horn . 
Quick ! cried young David of Doncaster . 
Our master is in sore need ! So , without stopping a moment , they dashed forward with might and main and burst forth from the covert into the highroad . 
What is thy need , master ? cried Will Stutely . 
Hadst thou not come quickly , good Stutely , thy master had been dead . 
Ha ! cried Robin , when they brought the trembling Miller to him . 
Thou wouldst murder me , wouldst thou ? By my faith Here he stopped and stood glaring upon the , Miller grimly . 
But Robin's anger could not hold , so first his eyes twinkled , and then in spite of all he broke into a laugh . 
Now when they saw their master laugh , the yeomen who stood around could contain themselves no longer , and a mighty shout of laughter went up from all . 
Many could not stand , but rolled upon the ground from pure merriment . 
What is thy name , good fellow ? said Robin at last to the Miller , who stood gaping and as though he were in amaze . 
Alas , sir , I am Midge , the Miller's son , said he in a frightened voice . 
I make my vow , quoth merry Robin , smiting him upon the shoulder , thou art the mightiest Midge that e'er mine eyes beheld . 
Then truly , if thou dost forgive me for the blows I struck , not knowing who thou wast , I will join with thee right merrily , said the Miller . 
Then have I gained this day , quoth Robin , the three stoutest yeomen in all Nottinghamshire . 
So saying , he turned and led the way , the rest following , and so they entered the forest once more and were lost to sight . 
And so I have told it that you may laugh at the merry tale along with me . 
Robin Hood and Allan a Dale IT HAS just been told how three unlucky adventures fell upon Robin Hood and Little John all in one day bringing them sore ribs and aching bones . 
So next we will tell how they made up for those ill happenings by a good action that came about not without some small pain to Robin . 
The day was bright and jocund , and the morning dew still lay upon the grass . 
By the faith of my heart , quoth merry Robin , I do bethink me that we have had no one to dine with us for this long time . 
Our money groweth low in the purse , for no one hath come to pay a reckoning for many a day . 
Meantime we will prepare a grand feast to do whosoever may come the greater honor . 
And stay , good Stutely . 
I would have thee take Will Scarlet with thee , for it is meet that he should become acquaint with the ways of the forest . 
Now do I thank thee , good master , quoth Stutely , springing to his feet , that thou hast chosen me for this adventure . 
Truly , my limbs do grow slack through abiding idly here . 
Is it not so , Little John ? At this all laughed but Little John and Robin , who twisted up his face . 
I can speak for Midge , said he , and likewise for my cousin Scarlet . 
This very blessed morn I looked at my ribs and found them as many colors as a beggar's cloak . 
For all the livelong day they abided near this highway . 
Each man had brought with him a good store of cold meat and a bottle of stout March beer to stay his stomach till the homecoming . 
So when high noontide had come they sat them down upon the soft grass , beneath a green and wide spreading hawthorn bush , and held a hearty and jovial feast . 
After this , one kept watch while the others napped , for it was a still and sultry day . 
Thus they passed the time pleasantly enow , but no guest such as they desired showed his face in all the time that they lay hidden there . 
Such were the travelers along the way but fat abbot , rich esquire , or money laden usurer came there none . 
At last the sun began to sink low in the heavens the light grew red and the shadows long . 
Then Stutely arose from where he was lying . 
A plague of such ill luck ! quoth he . 
Here have we abided all day , and no bird worth the shooting , so to speak , hath come within reach of our bolt . 
Had I gone forth on an innocent errand , I had met a dozen stout priests or a score of pursy money lenders . 
But it is ever thus the dun deer are never so scarce as when one has a gray goose feather nipped betwixt the fingers . 
After they had gone some distance , Will Stutely , who headed the party , suddenly stopped . 
Hist ! quoth he , for his ears were as sharp as those of a five year old fox . 
Hark , lads ! Methinks I hear a sound . 
At this all stopped and listened with bated breath , albeit for a time they could hear nothing , their ears being duller than Stutely's . 
At length they heard a faint and melancholy sound , like someone in lamentation . 
Ha ! quoth Will Scarlet , this must be looked into . 
There is someone in distress nigh to us here . 
Yon is a man's voice , if I mistake not , and a man should be always ready to get himself out from his own pothers . 
Then out spake Will Scarlet boldly . 
Now out upon thee , to talk in that manner , Stutely ! Stay , if thou dost list . 
I go to see what may be the trouble of this poor creature . 
Nay , quoth Stutely , thou dost leap so quickly , thou'lt tumble into the ditch . 
His golden locks were tangled , his clothes were all awry , and everything about him betokened sorrow and woe . 
Over his head , from the branches of the osier , hung a beautiful harp of polished wood inlaid with gold and silver in fantastic devices . 
Beside him lay a stout ashen bow and half a score of fair , smooth arrows . 
Halloa ! shouted Will Stutely , when they had come out from the forest into the little open spot . 
Truly , said one of the yeomen , when they had seen the young stranger's face , I do know that lad right well . 
He is a certain minstrel that I have seen hereabouts more than once . 
It was only a week ago I saw him skipping across the hill like a yearling doe . 
Put down thy bow , man ! We mean thee no harm . 
Nay , thou art in trouble , poor boy ! said he kindly . 
Mind not what these fellows have said . 
They are rough , but they mean thee well . 
Mayhap they do not understand a lad like thee . 
Thou shalt come with us , and perchance we may find a certain one that can aid thee in thy perplexities , whatsoever they may be . 
Yea , truly , come along , said Will Stutely gruffly . 
I meant thee no harm , and may mean thee some good . 
Take down thy singing tool from off this fair tree , and away with us . 
The youth did as he was bidden and , with bowed head and sorrowful step , accompanied the others , walking beside Will Scarlet . 
So they wended their way through the forest . 
The bright light faded from the sky and a glimmering gray fell over all things . 
At last a ruddy glow shone before them here and there through the trees a little farther and they came to the open glade , now bathed in the pale moonlight . 
In the center of the open crackled a great fire , throwing a red glow on all around . 
At the fire were roasting juicy steaks of venison , pheasants , capons , and fresh fish from the river . 
All the air was filled with the sweet smell of good things cooking . 
The little band made its way across the glade , many yeomen turning with curious looks and gazing after them , but none speaking or questioning them . 
Good even , fair friend , said Robin Hood , rising as the other drew near . 
Truly , I know not whether I be in a dream , said he to himself in a low voice . 
Nay , marry , quoth Robin , laughing , thou art awake , as thou wilt presently find , for a fine feast is a cooking for thee . 
Thou art our honored guest this day . 
Still the young stranger looked about him , as though in a dream . 
Presently he turned to Robin . 
Methinks , said he , I know now where I am and what hath befallen me . 
Art not thou the great Robin Hood ? Thou hast hit the bull's eye , quoth Robin , clapping him upon the shoulder . 
Men hereabouts do call me by that name . 
Sin' thou knowest me , thou knowest also that he who feasteth with me must pay his reckoning . 
I trust thou hast a full purse with thee , fair stranger . 
At this speech a great shout of laughter went up from those around , whereat the poor boy looked as he would die of shame but Robin Hood turned sharply to Will Stutely . 
Why , how now , quoth he , is this the guest that thou hast brought us to fill our purse ? Methinks thou hast brought but a lean cock to the market . 
Nay , good master , answered Will Stutely , grinning , he is no guest of mine it was Will Scarlet that brought him thither . 
Then Robin Hood turned to the youth , and , placing his hand upon the other's shoulder , held him off at arm's length , scanning his face closely . 
A young face , quoth he in a low voice , half to himself , a kind face , a good face . 
At these words , spoken so kindly , the poor lad's eyes brimmed up with tears . 
Nay , nay , said Robin hastily , cheer up , lad I warrant thy case is not so bad that it cannot be mended . 
What may be thy name ? Allen a Dale is my name , good master . 
Allen a Dale , repeated Robin , musing . 
It doth seem to me that the name is not altogether strange to mine ears . 
Yea , surely thou art the minstrel of whom we have been hearing lately , whose voice so charmeth all men . 
Dost thou not come from the Dale of Rotherstream , over beyond Stavely ? Yea , truly , answered Allan , I do come thence . 
How old art thou , Allan ? said Robin . 
I am but twenty years of age . 
Then , when the others had gone , each man about his business , Robin turned once more to the youth . 
Now , lad , said he , tell us thy troubles , and speak freely . 
A flow of words doth ever ease the heart of sorrows it is like opening the waste weir when the mill dam is overfull . 
Come , sit thou here beside me , and speak at thine ease . 
Then they broke a sixpence between them , and vowed to be true to one another forever . 
So simple were the poor boy's words , and so deep his sorrow , that even Little John felt a certain knotty lump rise in his throat . 
Then up spoke Will Scarlet . 
I like it not in her , Allan . 
Nay , said Allan hotly , thou dost wrong her . 
She is as soft and gentle as a stockdove . 
I know her better than anyone in all the world . 
She may do her father's bidding , but if she marries Sir Stephen , her heart will break and she will die . 
My own sweet dear , I He stopped and shook his head , for he could say nothing further . 
While the others were speaking , Robin Hood had been sunk in thought . 
Methinks I have a plan might fit thy case , Allan , said he . 
But stay , now I bethink me , there is one thing reckoned not upon the priest . 
As to the lesser clergy , they fear to do me a favor because of abbot or bishop . 
He is known as the Curtal Friar of Fountain Abbey , and dwelleth in Fountain Dale . 
But , quoth Robin , Fountain Abbey is a good hundred miles from here . 
An we would help this lad , we have no time to go thither and back before his true love will be married . 
Nought is to be gained there , coz . 
Yea , quoth Will Scarlet , laughing again , but this Fountain Abbey is not so far away as the one of which thou speakest , uncle . 
I will seek this same Friar of Fountain Abbey tomorrow day , and I warrant I will get upon the soft side of him , even if I have to drub one soft . 
At this Will Scarlet laughed again . 
Jest and story passed freely , and all laughed till the forest rang again . 
Allan laughed with the rest , for his cheeks were flushed with the hope that Robin Hood had given him . 
At last the feast was done , and Robin Hood turned to Allan , who sat beside him . 
Now , Allan , quoth he , so much has been said of thy singing that we would fain have a taste of thy skill ourselves . 
Down dropped the bird on quivering wing , From out the blossoming tree , And nestled in her snowy breast . 
My love ! my love ! cried she Then straightway home , 'mid sun and flower , She bare him to her own sweet bower . 
He stood where o'er the pavement cold The glimmering moonbeams lay . 
May Ellen gazed with wide , scared eyes , Nor could she turn away , For , as in mystic dreams we see A spirit , stood he silently . 
Oh , don thy silks and jewels fine , May Ellen's mother said , For hither comes the Lord of Lyne And thou this lord must wed . 
May Ellen said , It may not be . 
He ne'er shall find his wife in me . 
Then , with a sad and mournful song , Away the bird did fly , And o'er the castle eaves , and through The gray and windy sky . 
The bridegroom was Sir Hugh the Bold , All clad in silk and cloth of gold . 
Around May Ellen's head they flew In wide and windy fight , And three times round the circle drew . 
The guests shrank in affright , And the priest beside the altar there , Did cross himself with muttered prayer . 
But the third time they flew around , Fair Ellen straight was gone , And in her place , upon the ground , There stood a snow white swan . 
Then , with a wild and lovely song , It joined the swift and winged throng . 
There's ancient men at weddings been , For sixty years and more , But such a wondrous wedding day , They never saw before . 
But none could check and none could stay , The swans that bore the bride away . 
Then Allan took Robin's hand and kissed it . 
I will stay with thee always , dear master , said he , for never have I known such kindness as thou hast shown me this day . 
Then Will Scarlet stretched forth his hand and shook Allan's in token of fellowship , as did Little John likewise . 
And thus the famous Allan a Dale became one of Robin Hood's band . 
Bide the rest of you here , and Will Stutely shall be your chief while I am gone . 
Then straightway Robin Hood donned a fine steel coat of chain mail , over which he put on a light jacket of Lincoln green . 
Upon his head he clapped a steel cap , and this he covered by one of soft white leather , in which stood a nodding cock's plume . 
By his side he hung a good broadsword of tempered steel , the bluish blade marked all over with strange figures of dragons , winged women , and what not . 
So , having arrayed himself , he and the four yeomen set forth upon their way , Will Scarlet taking the lead , for he knew better than the others whither to go . 
Onward they walked with song and jest and laughter till noontide was passed , when at last they came to the banks of a wide , glassy , and lily padded stream . 
But now , in the hot silence of the midday , no horse was seen nor any man besides themselves . 
Behind them and before them stretched the river , its placid bosom ruffled here and there by the purple dusk of a small breeze . 
Thither will I lead thee , for I know the way albeit it is not overhard to find . 
But no matter now , for after all a wetting will not wash the skin away , and what must be , must . 
But bide ye here , lads , for I would enjoy this merry adventure alone . 
Nevertheless , listen well , and if ye hear me sound upon my bugle horn , come quickly . 
So saying , he turned and left them , striding onward alone . 
Robin had walked no farther than where the bend of the road hid his good men from his view , when he stopped suddenly , for he thought that he heard voices . 
He stood still and listened , and presently heard words passed back and forth betwixt what seemed to be two men , and yet the two voices were wondrously alike . 
I make my vow that never have I heard the like in all my life before . 
Truly , if this twain are to be judged by their voices , no two peas were ever more alike . 
I will look into this matter . 
So saying , he came softly to the river bank and laying him down upon the grass , peered over the edge and down below . 
All was cool and shady beneath the bank . 
A stout osier grew , not straight upward , but leaning across the water , shadowing the spot with its soft foliage . 
His head was as round as a ball , and covered with a mat of close clipped , curly black hair that grew low down on his forehead . 
His cheeks were as red and shining as a winter crab , albeit they were nearly covered over with a close curly black beard , as were his chin and upper lip likewise . 
His neck was thick like that of a north country bull , and his round head closely set upon shoulders e'en a match for those of Little John himself . 
Beneath his bushy black brows danced a pair of little gray eyes that could not stand still for very drollery of humor . 
No man could look into his face and not feel his heartstrings tickled by the merriment of their look . 
By his side lay a steel cap , which he had laid off for the sake of the coolness to his crown . 
Methought there was another here , but it must have been this holy man talking to himself . 
So Robin lay watching the Friar , and the Friar , all unknowing that he was so overlooked , ate his meal placidly . 
, he took up his flask and began talking to himself as though he were another man , and answering himself as though he were somebody else . 
Dear lad , thou art the sweetest fellow in all the world , I do love thee as a lover loveth his lass . 
Nay then , wilt thou not take a drink of good Malmsey ? After thee , lad , after thee . 
Nay , I beseech thee , sweeten the draught with thy lips . 
An thou wilt force it on me so , I must needs do thy bidding , yet with the more pleasure do I so as I drink thy very great health . 
I take it , sweet chuck , and here's wishing thee as much good as thou wishest me . 
Saying this , he took another draught , and truly he drank enough for two . 
I'll woo thee , love , on my bended knee , And I'll pipe sweet songs to none but thee . 
SHE Now get thee away , young man so fine Now get thee away , I say For my true love shall never be thine , And so thou hadst better not stay . 
Thou art not a fine enough lad for me , So I'll wait till a better young man I see . 
For never is a blossom in the field so rare , But others are found that are just as fair . 
SHE Young man , turn not so very quick away Another fair lass to find . 
Hereupon he drew from beneath his robes a great broadsword full as stout as was Robin's . 
Nay , put up thy pinking iron , friend , quoth Robin , standing up with the tears of laughter still on his cheeks . 
Folk who have sung so sweetly together should not fight thereafter . 
Hereupon he leaped down the bank to where the other stood . 
I tell thee , friend , said he , my throat is as parched with that song as e'er a barley stubble in October . 
Hast thou haply any Malmsey left in that stout pottle ? Truly , said the Friar in a glum voice , thou dost ask thyself freely where thou art not bidden . 
Yet I trust I am too good a Christian to refuse any man drink that is athirst . 
Such as there is o't thou art welcome to a drink of the same . 
And he held the pottle out to Robin . 
The stout Friar watched Robin anxiously the while , and when he was done took the pottle quickly . 
He shook it , held it betwixt his eyes and the light , looked reproachfully at the yeoman , and straightway placed it at his own lips . 
When it came away again there was nought within it . 
Doss thou know the country hereabouts , thou good and holy man ? asked Robin , laughing . 
Yea , somewhat , answered the other dryly . 
And dost thou know of a certain spot called Fountain Abbey ? Yea , somewhat . 
Then perchance thou knowest also of a certain one who goeth by the name of the Curtal Friar of Fountain Abbey . 
That , quoth the Friar , is a practical question upon which the cunning rules appertaining to logic touch not . 
I do advise thee to find that out by the aid of thine own five senses sight , feeling , and what not . 
I do wish much , quoth Robin , looking thoughtfully at the stout priest , to cross yon ford and strive to find this same good Friar . 
Truly , said the other piously , it is a goodly wish on the part of one so young . 
Far be it from me to check thee in so holy a quest . 
Friend , the river is free to all . 
Yea , good father , said Robin , but thou seest that my clothes are of the finest and I fain would not get them wet . 
But why should I not ? quoth he piously . 
Having come to the ford , he girded up his robes about his loins , tucked his good broadsword beneath his arm , and stooped his back to take Robin upon it . 
Methinks , quoth he , thou'lt get thy weapon wet . 
Let me tuck it beneath mine arm along with mine own . 
Nay , good father , said Robin , I would not burden thee with aught of mine but myself . 
Upon this , without more ado , Robin Hood unbuckled his sword from his side and handed it to the other , who thrust it with his own beneath his arm . 
At last he reached the other side and Robin leaped lightly from his back . 
Many thanks , good father , quoth he . 
Thou art indeed a good and holy man . 
Prythee give me my sword and let me away , for I am in haste . 
Nay , good youth , said he gently , I doubt not that thou art in haste with thine affairs , yet thou dost think nothing of mine . 
Thine are of a carnal nature mine are of a spiritual nature , a holy work , so to speak moreover , mine affairs do lie upon the other side of this stream . 
I see by thy quest of this same holy recluse that thou art a good young man and most reverent to the cloth . 
I know that since I have so humbly done thy bidding thou wilt carry me back again . 
Thou seest how Saint Godrick , that holy hermit whose natal day this is , hath placed in my hands two swords and in thine never a one . 
Therefore be persuaded , good youth , and carry me back again . 
Robin Hood looked up and he looked down , biting his nether lip . 
Quoth he , Thou cunning Friar , thou hast me fair and fast enow . 
Let me tell thee that not one of thy cloth hath so hoodwinked me in all my life before . 
I might have known from thy looks that thou wert no such holy man as thou didst pretend to be . 
Nay , interrupted the Friar , I bid thee speak not so scurrilously neither , lest thou mayst perchance feel the prick of an inch or so of blue steel . 
Tut , tut , said Robin , speak not so , Friar the loser hath ever the right to use his tongue as he doth list . 
Give me my sword I do promise to carry thee back straightway . 
Nay , I will not lift the weapon against thee . 
Marry , come up , quoth the Friar , I fear thee not , fellow . 
Here is thy skewer and get thyself presently ready , for I would hasten back . 
So Robin took his sword again and buckled it at his side then he bent his stout back and took the Friar upon it . 
Now I wot Robin Hood had a heavier load to carry in the Friar than the Friar had in him . 
Meantime , the Friar kept digging his heels into Robin's sides and bidding him hasten , calling him many ill names the while . 
Now then , quoth merry Robin , panting as he spake and wiping the sweat from his brow , I have thee , fellow . 
This time that same saint of whom thou didst speak but now hath delivered two swords into my hand and hath stripped thine away from thee . 
Now if thou dost not carry me back , and that speedily , I swear I will prick thy skin till it is as full of holes as a slashed doublet . 
The good Friar said not a word for a while , but he looked at Robin with a grim look . 
Now , said he at last , I did think that thy wits were of the heavy sort and knew not that thou wert so cunning . 
Truly , thou hast me upon the hip . 
At last he reached the middle of the ford where the water was deepest . 
Down went Robin into the water with a mighty splash . 
There , quoth the holy man , calmly turning back again to the shore , let that cool thy hot spirit , if it may . 
Meantime , after much splashing , Robin had gotten to his feet and stood gazing about him all bewildered , the water running from him in pretty little rills . 
Then , I wot , was Robin Hood a mad man . 
Thou needst not hasten thyself unduly , quoth the stout Friar . 
And now Robin , having reached the bank , began , without more ado , to roll up his sleeves above his wrists . 
The Friar , also , tucked his robes more about him , showing a great , stout arm on which the muscles stood out like humps of an aged tree . 
Then Robin saw , what he had not wotted of before , that the Friar had also a coat of chain mail beneath his gown . 
Look to thyself , cried Robin , drawing his good sword . 
Ay , marry , quoth the Friar , who held his already in his hand . 
So , without more ado , they came together , and thereupon began a fierce and mighty battle . 
Right and left , and up and down and back and forth they fought . 
The swords flashed in the sun and then met with a clash that sounded far and near . 
I wot this was no playful bout at quarterstaff , but a grim and serious fight of real earnest . 
Yet in all this time neither had harmed the other nor caused his blood to flow . 
At last merry Robin cried , Hold thy hand , good friend ! whereupon both lowered their swords . 
What wouldst thou have of me ? asked the Friar . 
Only this , quoth Robin that thou wilt let me blow thrice upon my bugle horn . 
The Friar bent his brows and looked shrewdly at Robin Hood . 
Now I do verily think that thou hast some cunning trick in this , quoth he . 
Ne'ertheless , I fear thee not , and will let thee have thy wish , providing thou wilt also let me blow thrice upon this little whistle . 
With all my heart , quoth Robin , so , here goes for one . 
So saying , he raised his silver horn to his lips and blew thrice upon it , clear and high . 
Ha ! Is it thus , thou traitor knave ! cried the Friar . 
Then , marry , look to thyself ! So saying , he straightway clapped the hawk's whistle to his lips and blew a blast that was both loud and shrill . 
And now there came a crackling of the bushes that lined the other side of the road , and presently forth from the covert burst four great , shaggy hounds . 
At 'em , Sweet Lips ! At 'em , Bell Throat ! At 'em , Beauty ! At 'em , Fangs ! cried the Friar , pointing at Robin . 
And now it was well for that yeoman that a tree stood nigh him beside the road , else had he had an ill chance of it . 
But the Friar quickly called off his dogs . 
At 'em ! cried he , pointing down the road to where the yeomen were standing stock still with wonder of what they saw . 
Now it would have been an ill day for these four good fellows had not Will Scarlet stepped before the others and met the hounds as they came rushing . 
Why , how now , Fangs ! cried he sternly . 
Then the four yeomen came forward , the hounds leaping around Will Scarlet joyously . 
I crave thy forgiveness , and do wonder not that I found so stout a man against me . 
Truly , most holy father , said Little John , I am more thankful than e'er I was in all my life before that our good friend Scarlet knew thee and thy dogs . 
I tell thee seriously that I felt my heart crumble away from me when I saw my shaft so miss its aim , and those great beasts of thine coming straight at me . 
Thou mayst indeed be thankful , friend , said the Friar gravely . 
Yea , truly , yet I knew not that thou wert in hiding because of it . 
Marry , the times are all awry when a gentleman must lie hidden for so small a thing . 
But we are losing time , quoth Robin , and I have yet to find that same Curtal Friar . 
Why , uncle , thou hast not far to go , said Will Scarlet , pointing to the Friar , for there he stands beside thee . 
I like the last name best , quoth Robin , for it doth slip more glibly off the tongue . 
Come back with us to Sherwood , and I will unfold all to thee as we travel along . 
Now listen , for next I will tell how Robin Hood compassed the happiness of two young lovers , aided by the merry Friar Tuck of Fountain Dale . 
Besides Little John and Will Stutely were nigh all those famous lads of whom I have already told you . 
All the band stared and many laughed , for never had they seen their master in such a fantastic guise before . 
But stay , Little John , here are two bags that I would have thee carry in thy pouch for the sake of safekeeping . 
I can ill care for them myself beneath this motley . 
Why , master , quoth Little John , taking the bags and weighing them in his hand , here is the chink of gold . 
Well , what an there be , said Robin , it is mine own coin and the band is none the worse for what is there . 
Come , busk ye , lads , and he turned quickly away . 
So they walked on for a long time till they had come out of Sherwood and to the vale of Rotherstream . 
Thus Robin led his band , walking blithely with chest thrown out and head thrown back , snuffing the odors of the gentle breeze that came drifting from over the hayfields . 
Truly , quoth he , the dear world is as fair here as in the woodland shades . 
Who calls it a vale of tears ? Methinks it is but the darkness in our minds that bringeth gloom to the world . 
Truly , quoth Robin , when he could speak for laughter , I should say that thy sorrows were about equal to thy goodliness . 
Here it was that fair Ellen was to be married on that morn , and here was the spot toward which the yeomen had pointed their toes . 
On the other side of the road from where the church stood with waving fields of barley around , ran a stone wall along the roadside . 
So get thee upon the wall , David , and hide beneath the woodbine so as to keep watch . 
Accordingly young David did as he was bidden , the others stretching themselves at length upon the grass , some talking together and others sleeping . 
Robin lay upon his back and gazed aloft into the leaves of the trees , his thought leagues away , and so a long time passed . 
So silence fell again and another time passed , broken only as I have said , till Robin , growing impatient , spake again . 
Then up rose Robin Hood and shook Friar Tuck by the shoulder . 
Come , rouse thee , holy man ! cried he whereupon , with much grunting , the stout Tuck got to his feet . 
Marry , bestir thyself , quoth Robin , for yonder , in the church door , is one of thy cloth . 
Hilloa , brother , quoth Tuck , let me aid thee . 
So saying , he took the key from the other's hand and quickly opened the door with a turn of it . 
Who art thou , good brother ? asked the old friar , in a high , wheezing voice . 
Whence comest thou , and whither art thou going ? And he winked and blinked at stout Friar Tuck like an owl at the sun . 
Thus do I answer thy questions , brother , said the other . 
My name is Tuck , and I go no farther than this spot , if thou wilt haply but let me stay while this same wedding is going forward . 
Truly , thou art welcome , brother , said the old man , leading the way within . 
Meantime , Robin Hood , in his guise of harper , together with Little John and Will Stutely , had come to the church . 
Robin sat him down on a bench beside the door , but Little John , carrying the two bags of gold , went within , as did Will Stutely . 
Then , when they had come nearer , Robin saw who they were , and knew them . 
The first was the Bishop of Hereford , and a fine figure he cut , I wot . 
His vestments were of the richest silk , and around his neck was a fair chain of beaten gold . 
The cap that hid his tonsure was of black velvet , and around the edges of it were rows of jewels that flashed in the sunlight , each stone being set in gold . 
Beside the Bishop rode the Prior of Emmet upon a mincing palfrey . 
Rich were his clothes also , but not so gay as the stout Bishop's . 
When Robin saw this train drawing near , with flash of jewels and silk and jingle of silver bells on the trappings of the nags , he looked sourly upon them . 
Quoth he to himself , Yon Bishop is overgaudy for a holy man . 
Bishop , Bishop , thy pride may have a fall ere thou wottest of it . 
Then they dismounted , and the Bishop , looking around , presently caught sight of Robin standing in the doorway . 
Ha ! is it so ? cried the Bishop . 
Meanest thou this in sooth ? And he looked keenly at Robin , who gazed boldly back again into his eyes . 
thus to love the man she is to marry , as thou sayst thou canst , I will give thee whatsoever thou wilt ask me in due measure . 
Let me have a taste of thy skill , fellow . 
Nay , quoth Robin , my music cometh not without I choose , even at a lord bishop's bidding . 
In sooth , I will not play until the bride and bridegroom come . 
Now , thou art a saucy varlet to speak so to my crest , quoth the Bishop , frowning on Robin . 
Yet , I must needs bear with thee . 
Look , Prior , hither cometh our cousin Sir Stephen , and his ladylove . 
And now , around the bend of the highroad , came others , riding upon horses . 
Robin looked , and had no doubt that this was Sir Stephen , both because of his knightly carriage and of his gray hairs . 
Behind this litter rode six men at arms , the sunlight flashing on their steel caps as they came jingling up the dusty road . 
So these also came to the church , and there Sir Stephen leaped from his horse and , coming to the litter , handed fair Ellen out therefrom . 
Why dost thou not play , fellow ? quoth the Bishop , looking sternly at Robin . 
Marry , said Robin calmly , I will play in greater wise than Your Lordship thinks , but not till the right time hath come . 
Said the Bishop to himself , while he looked grimly at Robin , When this wedding is gone by I will have this fellow well whipped for his saucy tongue and bold speech . 
Then , in all his fluttering tags and ribbons of red and yellow , Robin Hood strode forward . 
Three steps he took from the pillar whereby he leaned , and stood between the bride and bridegroom . 
Let me look upon this lass , he said in a loud voice . 
Why , how now ! What have we here ? Here be lilies in the cheeks , and not roses such as befit a bonny bride . 
This is no fit wedding . 
And now all was hubbub and noise . 
Stout Edward strode forward raging , and would have seized his daughter to drag her away , but Little John stepped between and thrust him back . 
Stand back , old man , said he , thou art a hobbled horse this day . 
Down with the villains ! cried Sir Stephen , and felt for his sword , but it hung not beside him on his wedding day . 
The men at arms fell back , and up the aisle came leaping eighteen stout yeomen all clad in Lincoln green , with Allan a Dale at their head . 
In his hand he bore Robin Hood's good stout trusty bow of yew , and this he gave to him , kneeling the while upon one knee . 
At this name a sudden silence fell . 
Then up spake stout Edward in a loud and angry voice , Now I say nay ! I am her father , and she shall marry Sir Stephen and none other . 
Now all this time , while everything was in turmoil about him , Sir Stephen had been standing in proud and scornful silence . 
Nay , fellow , said he coldly , thou mayst take thy daughter back again I would not marry her after this day's doings could I gain all merry England thereby . 
Maiden , if thou dost rather choose a beggarly minstrel than a high born knight , take thy choice . 
I do feel it shame that I should thus stand talking amid this herd , and so I will leave you . 
Thus saying , he turned and , gathering his men about him , walked proudly down the aisle . 
Then all the yeomen were silenced by the scorn of his words . 
Only Friar Tuck leaned over the edge of the choir loft and called out to him ere he had gone , Good den , Sir Knight . 
Thou wottest old bones must alway make room for young blood . 
Sir Stephen neither answered nor looked up , but passed out from the church as though he had heard nought , his men following him . 
Then the Bishop of Hereford spoke hastily , I , too , have no business here , and so will depart . 
And he made as though he would go . 
But Robin Hood laid hold of his clothes and held him . 
Stay , my Lord Bishop , said he , I have yet somewhat to say to thee . 
The Bishop's face fell , but he stayed as Robin bade him , for he saw he could not go . 
Then Robin Hood turned to stout Edward of Deirwold , and said he , Give thy blessing on thy daughter's marriage to this yeoman , and all will be well . 
Little John , give me the bags of gold . 
Here are two hundred bright golden angels give thy blessing , as I say , and I will count them out to thee as thy daughter's dower . 
Give not thy blessing , and she shall be married all the same , but not so much as a cracked farthing shall cross thy palm . 
I had thought to make a lady of her yet if she chooses to be what she is like to be , I have nought to do with her henceforth . 
Ne'ertheless I will give her my blessing when she is duly wedded . 
It may not be , spake up one of those of Emmet . 
The banns have not been duly published , neither is there any priest here to marry them . 
How sayst thou ? roared Tuck from the choir loft . 
No priest ? Marry , here stands as holy a man as thou art , any day of the week , a clerk in orders , I would have thee know . 
As for the question of banns , stumble not over that straw , brother , for I will publish them . 
So saying , he called the banns and , says the old ballad , lest three times should not be enough , he published them nine times o'er . 
Then straightway he came down from the loft and forthwith performed the marriage service and so Allan and Ellen were duly wedded . 
Then the stout yeomen crowded around and grasped Allan's palm , and he , holding Ellen's hand within his own , looked about him all dizzy with his happiness . 
Then at last jolly Robin turned to the Bishop of Hereford , who had been looking on at all that passed with a grim look . 
I have played my play , and she loveth her husband , which she would not have done but for me so now fulfill thy promise . 
Then the Bishop's cheeks grew red with rage and his eyes flashed . 
He looked at Robin with a fell look , but saw that in the yeoman's face which bade him pause . 
Then slowly he took the chain from about his neck and handed it to Robin , who flung it over Ellen's head so that it hung glittering about her shoulders . 
Then said merry Robin , I thank thee , on the bride's part , for thy handsome gift , and truly thou thyself art more seemly without it . 
Now , shouldst thou ever come nigh to Sherwood I much hope that I shall give thee there such a feast as thou hast ne'er had in all thy life before . 
May Heaven forfend ! cried the Bishop earnestly for he knew right well what manner of feast it was that Robin Hood gave his guests in Sherwood Forest . 
But now Robin Hood gathered his men together , and , with Allan and his young bride in their midst , they all turned their footsteps toward the woodlands . 
On the way thither Friar Tuck came close to Robin and plucked him by the sleeve . 
At this merry Robin Hood laughed amain , and bade him stay and become one of their band if he wished . 
That night there was such a feast held in the greenwood as Nottinghamshire never saw before . 
Robin Hood Aids a Sorrowful Knight SO PASSED the gentle springtime away in budding beauty its silver showers and sunshine , its green meadows and its flowers . 
Also , at this merry season , good things of the year are gathered in in great store . 
Quoth Robin Hood , snuffing the air , Here is a fair day , Little John , and one that we can ill waste in idleness . 
Marry , cried Little John , clapping his palms together for joy , thy bidding fitteth my liking like heft to blade . 
I'll bring thee back a guest this day , or come not back mine own self . 
Then they each chose such of the band as they wished , and so went forth by different paths from the forest . 
And here is good company , too Robin Hood , Will Scarlet , Allan a Dale , Will Scathelock , Midge , the Miller's son , and others . 
They traveled onward , Robin following his fancy and the others following Robin . 
Now they wended their way through an open dale with cottage and farm lying therein , and now again they entered woodlands once more . 
Passing by fair Mansfield Town , with its towers and battlements and spires all smiling in the sun , they came at last out of the forest lands . 
So they crossed a stile and came behind a hedgerow where the mellow sunlight was bright and warm , and where the grass was soft , and there sat them down . 
So no more words were spoken , but each man saved his teeth for better use munching at brown crust and cold meat right lustily . 
In front of them , one of the highroads crawled up the steep hill and then dipped suddenly over its crest , sharp cut with hedgerow and shaggy grass against the sky . 
So the yeomen lay behind the hedge and finished their midday meal but still the time slipped along and no one came . 
At last , a man came slowly riding over the hill and down the stony road toward the spot where Robin and his band lay hidden . 
He was a good stout knight , but sorrowful of face and downcast of mien . 
Methinks his dress is rich , though he himself is so downcast . 
Bide ye here till I look into this matter . 
So saying , he arose and left them , crossed the road to the shrine , and there stood , waiting for the sorrowful knight to come near him . 
So , presently , when the knight came riding slowly along , jolly Robin stepped forward and laid his hand upon the bridle rein . 
Hold , Sir Knight , quoth he . 
I prythee tarry for a short time , for I have a few words to say to thee . 
What art thou , friend , who dost stop a traveler in this manner upon his most gracious Majesty's highway ? said the Knight . 
Marry , quoth Robin , that is a question hard to answer . 
One man calleth me kind , another calleth me cruel this one calleth me good honest fellow , and that one , vile thief . 
My name is Robin Hood . 
Truly , good Robin , said the Knight , a smile twitching at the corners of his mouth , thou hast a quaint conceit . 
Thou art indeed kind , said the Knight , but methinks thou wilt find me but an ill seeming and sorrowful guest . 
Thou hadst best let me pass on my way in peace . 
Nay , quoth Robin , thou mightst go thine own way but for one thing , and that I will tell thee . 
Thus the matter stands , Sir Knight yet I will furthermore tell thee that we count upon our guests paying a reckoning . 
I take thy meaning , friend , said the Knight gravely , but I am not thy man , for I have no money by me . 
Is it sooth ? said Robin , looking at the Knight keenly . 
I can scarce choose but believe thee yet , Sir Knight , there be those of thy order whose word is not to be trusted as much as they would have others believe . 
Thou wilt think no ill if I look for myself in this matter . 
These , said Robin , looking upon them proudly , are some of my merry men . 
They share and share alike with me all joys and troubles , gains and losses . 
Sir Knight , I prythee tell me what money thou hast about thee . 
Nay , here is my purse , ye may find for yourselves the truth of what I say . 
And he held his purse out to Robin . 
Put up thy purse , Sir Richard , quoth Robin . 
Far be it from me to doubt the word of so gentle a knight . 
The proud I strive to bring low , but those that walk in sorrow I would aid if I could . 
Come , Sir Richard , cheer up thy heart and go with us into the greenwood . 
Truly , friend , said Sir Richard , methinks thou meanest kindness in thine own way nevertheless my troubles are such that it is not likely that thou canst cure them . 
But I will go with thee this day into Sherwood . 
After they had traveled thus for a time Robin Hood spake . 
Thus it is My castle and my lands are in pawn for a debt that I owe . 
Quoth Robin , I understand not why those of thy kind live in such a manner that all their wealth passeth from them like snow beneath the springtide sun . 
Thou wrongest me , Robin , said the Knight , for listen I have a son but twenty winters old , nevertheless he has won his spurs as knight . 
Last year , on a certain evil day , the jousts were held at Chester , and thither my son went , as did I and my lady wife . 
I wot it was a proud time for us , for he unhorsed each knight that he tilted against . 
All might have gone well even yet , only that , by ins and outs and crookedness of laws , I was shorn like a sheep that is clipped to the quick . 
So it came that I had to pawn my lands to the Priory of Emmet for more money , and a hard bargain they drove with me in my hour of need . 
Yet I would have thee understand I grieve so for my lands only because of my dear lady wife . 
But where is thy son now ? asked Robin , who had listened closely to all the Knight had said . 
In Palestine , said Sir Richard , battling like a brave Christian soldier for the cross and the holy sepulcher . 
Truly , England was an ill place for him because of Sir Walter's death and the hate of the Lancastrian's kinsmen . 
Truly , said Robin , much moved , thine is a hard lot . 
But tell me , what is owing to Emmet for thine estates ? Only four hundred pounds , said Sir Richard . 
At this , Robin smote his thigh in anger . 
O the bloodsuckers ! cried he . 
As for me , I will over the salt sea , and so to Palestine to join my son in fight for the holy sepulcher . 
Then up spake Will Scarlet . 
But hast thou no friend that will help thee in thy dire need ? Never a man , said Sir Richard . 
While I was rich enow at home , and had friends , they blew great boasts of how they loved me . 
But when the oak falls in the forest the swine run from beneath it lest they should be smitten down also . 
So my friends have left me for not only am I poor but I have great enemies . 
Then Robin said , Thou sayst thou hast no friends , Sir Richard . 
I make no boast , but many have found Robin Hood a friend in their troubles . 
Cheer up , Sir Knight , I may help thee yet . 
The day was well nigh gone when they came near to the greenwood tree . 
Up and down he walked beneath the tree like a fox caught in a hencoop . 
Behind him were three Black Friars standing close together in a frightened group , like three black sheep in a tempest . 
So saying , he quickened his steps and soon came to where the Bishop stood fuming . 
But look ye not only did this fellow stop me , but he threatened me , saying that Robin Hood would strip me as bare as a winter hedge . 
At this , the Bishop glared like an angry cat , while even Sir Richard laughed only Robin kept a grave face . 
Alas ! my lord , said he , that thou hast been so ill treated by my band ! I tell thee truly that we greatly reverence thy cloth . 
Little John , stand forth straightway . 
At these words Little John came forward , twisting his face into a whimsical look , as though he would say , Ha' mercy upon me , good master . 
And didst thou , Little John , said Robin in a sad voice , call his lordship a fat priest ? Ay , said Little John sorrowfully . 
And a man eating bishop ? Ay , said Little John , more sorrowfully than before . 
And a money gorging usurer ? Ay , said Little John in so sorrowful a voice that it might have drawn tears from the Dragon of Wentley . 
Alas , that these things should be ! said jolly Robin , turning to the Bishop , for I have ever found Little John a truthful man . 
Nay , my Lord Bishop , said Robin , we are rough fellows , but I trust not such ill men as thou thinkest , after all . 
There is not a man here that would harm a hair of thy reverence's head . 
Come , busk ye , my merry men , and get the feast ready . 
Meantime , we will show our guests our woodland sports . 
So , while some went to kindle the fires for roasting meats , others ran leaping to get their cudgels and longbows . 
Then Robin brought forward Sir Richard of the Lea . 
My Lord Bishop , said he , here is another guest that we have with us this day . 
I wish that thou mightest know him better , for I and all my men will strive to honor you both at this merrymaking . 
Speak out , Bishop , quoth Robin , laughing . 
We of Sherwood check not an easy flow of words . 
Den of thieves' thou west about to say . 
It would have been more becoming of thee , methinks , to have checked them with frowns instead of spurring them on by laughter . 
But now Robin Hood called upon certain ones of his band who spread soft moss upon the ground and laid deerskins thereon . 
So Allan sang till the great round silver moon gleamed with its clear white light amid the upper tangle of the mazy branches of the trees . 
All around was a glare of torches that lit everything up with a red light . 
Then , straightway sitting down , all fell to with noise and hubbub , the rattling of platters blending with the sound of loud talking and laughter . 
A long time the feast lasted , but at last all was over , and the bright wine and humming ale passed briskly . 
Then Robin Hood called aloud for silence , and all was hushed till he spoke . 
Then , when Robin Hood had done , he turned to the Bishop of Hereford . 
Quoth Robin , Now , thou art the richest bishop in all England canst thou not help this needy brother ? But still the Bishop answered not a word . 
Then Robin turned to Little John , and quoth he , Go thou and Will Stutely and bring forth those five pack horses yonder . 
Who hath the score of the goods ? asked Robin Hood , looking at the Black Friars . 
Then up spake the smallest of all , in a trembling voice an old man he was , with a gentle , wrinkled face . 
That have I but , I pray thee , harm me not . 
Nay , quoth Robin , I have never harmed harmless man yet but give it to me , good father . 
So the old man did as he was bidden , and handed Robin the tablet on which was marked down the account of the various packages upon the horses . 
This Robin handed to Will Scarlet , bidding him to read the same . 
So Will Scarlet , lifting his voice that all might hear , began Three bales of silk to Quentin , the mercer at Ancaster . 
That we touch not , quoth Robin , for this Quentin is an honest fellow , who hath risen by his own thrift . 
So the bales of silk were laid aside unopened . 
One bale of silk velvet for the Abbey of Beaumont . 
What do these priests want of silk velvet ? quoth Robin . 
Nevertheless , though they need it not , I will not take all from them . 
Measure it off into three lots , one to be sold for charity , one for us , and one for the abbey . 
So this , too , was done as Robin Hood bade . 
Twoscore of great wax candles for the Chapel of Saint Thomas . 
That belongeth fairly to the chapel , quoth Robin , so lay it to one side . 
Far be it from us to take from the blessed Saint Thomas that which belongeth to him . 
So this , also , was done according to Robin's bidding , and the candles were laid to one side , along with honest Quentin's unopened bales of silk . 
So the list was gone through with , and the goods adjudged according to what Robin thought most fit . 
Some things were laid aside untouched , and many were opened and divided into three equal parts , for charity , for themselves , and for the owners . 
At these words the Bishop shook as with a chill , and the box was set upon the ground . 
My Lord Bishop , hast thou the key of this box ? asked Robin . 
The Bishop shook his head . 
Go , Will Scarlet , said Robin , thou art the strongest man here bring a sword straightway , and cut this box open , if thou canst . 
Then up rose Will Scarlet and left them , coming back in a short time , bearing a great two handed sword . 
At this sight a murmur went all around among the band , like the sound of the wind in distant trees but no man came forward nor touched the money . 
Quoth Robin , Thou , Will Scarlet , thou , Allan a Dale , and thou , Little John , count it over . 
A long time it took to count all the money , and when it had been duly scored up , Will Scarlet called out that there were fifteen hundred golden pounds in all . 
At this the Bishop looked up , but he could say never a word yet he was thankful to keep some of his wealth . 
Thou shalt take that five hundred pounds laid aside for people more in need than the Bishop is , and shalt pay thy debts to Emmet therewith . 
Sir Richard looked at Robin until something arose in his eyes that made all the lights and the faces blur together . 
At last he said , I thank thee , friend , from my heart , for what thou doest for me yet , think not ill if I cannot take thy gift freely . 
For this I pledge my most solemn knightly word . 
I feel free to borrow , for I know no man that should be more bound to aid me than one so high in that church that hath driven such a hard bargain . 
But thou hadst best bring the money to me at the end of the year , for mayhap I may make better use of it than the Bishop . 
Thereupon , turning to those near him , he gave his orders , and five hundred pounds were counted out and tied up in a leathern bag for Sir Richard . 
The rest of the treasure was divided , and part taken to the treasurehouse of the band , and part put by with the other things for the Bishop . 
I cannot stay later , good friends , said he , for my lady will wax anxious if I come not home so I crave leave to depart . 
Then Robin Hood and all his merry men arose , and Robin said , We cannot let thee go hence unattended , Sir Richard . 
Thou hast spoken well , Little John , and it shall be done , said Robin . 
Then Robin Hood said , Thou hast spoken well , Will Scarlet , and it shall be done . 
At this all clapped their hands for joy , and Robin said Thou hast well spoken , Will Stutely , and it shall be done . 
I He could say nothing further , but turned hastily away . 
But now Little John and nineteen stout fellows whom he had chosen for his band , came forth all ready for the journey . 
Each man wore upon his breast a coat of linked mail , and on his head a cap of steel , and at his side a good stout sword . 
A gallant show they made as they stood all in a row . 
He looked down at Robin for a little time , then of a sudden stooped and kissed his cheek . 
Then up spake the Bishop of Hereford in a mournful voice , I , too , must be jogging , good fellow , for the night waxes late . 
But Robin laid his hand upon the Bishop's arm and stayed him . 
Be not so hasty , Lord Bishop , said he . 
Three days hence Sir Richard must pay his debts to Emmet until that time thou must be content to abide with me lest thou breed trouble for the Knight . 
I promise thee that thou shalt have great sport , for I know that thou art fond of hunting the dun deer . 
Lay by thy mantle of melancholy , and strive to lead a joyous yeoman life for three stout days . 
I promise thee thou shalt be sorry to go when the time has come . 
But , as the Bishop rode away , he vowed within himself that he would sometime make Robin rue the day that he stopped him in Sherwood . 
How Sir Richard of the Lea Paid His Debts THE LONG HIGHWAY stretched straight on , gray and dusty in the sun . 
On either side were dikes full of water bordered by osiers , and far away in the distance stood the towers of Emmet Priory with tall poplar trees around . 
Along the causeway rode a knight with a score of stout men at arms behind him . 
But though he was so plainly dressed himself , the horse he rode was a noble barb , and its trappings were rich with silk and silver bells . 
So thus the band journeyed along the causeway between the dikes , till at last they reached the great gate of Emmet Priory . 
There the Knight called to one of his men and bade him knock at the porter's lodge with the heft of his sword . 
Where is thy prior ? asked the Knight of the old porter . 
He is at meat , good knight , and he looketh for thy coming , quoth the porter , for , if I mistake not , thou art Sir Richard of the Lea . 
I am Sir Richard of the Lea then I will go seek him forthwith , said the Knight . 
But shall I not send thy horse to stable ? said the porter . 
By Our Lady , it is the noblest nag , and the best harnessed , that e'er I saw in all my life before . 
And he stroked the horse's flank with his palm . 
Nay , quoth Sir Richard , the stables of this place are not for me , so make way , I prythee . 
So saying , he pushed forward , and , the gates being opened , he entered the stony courtyard of the Priory , his men behind him . 
While the Knight was riding along the causeway to Emmet , a merry feast was toward in the refectory there . 
Beside him , on the arm of his great chair , roosted his favorite falcon , for the Prior was fond of the gentle craft of hawking . 
Below these sat the high cellarer of Emmet , and others chief among the brethren . 
Jest and laughter passed around , and all was as merry as merry could be . 
The learned doctor had been paid beforehand , for he had not overmuch trust in the holy Vincent of Emmet . 
Then up spake the high cellarer , Methinks it is a shame to so drive a misfortunate knight to the ditch . 
I think it sorrow that the noblest estate in Derbyshire should so pass away from him for a paltry five hundred pounds . 
Nay , said the man of law smoothly , I dare swear this same knight will never come to settlement this day , but will prove recreant . 
Nevertheless , we will seek some means to gain his lands from him , so never fear . 
But even as the doctor spoke , there came a sudden clatter of horses' hoofs and a jingle of iron mail in the courtyard below . 
So the brother arose and went and looked , and he said , I see below a score of stout men at arms and a knight just dismounting from his horse . 
He is dressed in long robes of gray which , methinks , are of poor seeming but the horse he rideth upon hath the richest coursing that ever I saw . 
The Knight dismounts and they come this way , and are even now below in the great hall . 
Lo , see ye there now , quoth Prior Vincent . 
Mayhap thou hadst better give an extension of his debt . 
Thus he spake , for he was afraid Sir Richard might do him a harm . 
Thou needst not fear , said the Prior , looking down at the little man beside him . 
This knight is gentle and would as soon think of harming an old woman as thee . 
As the Prior finished , a door at the lower end of the refectory swung open , and in came Sir Richard , with folded hands and head bowed upon his breast . 
Thus humbly he walked slowly up the hall , while his men at arms stood about the door . 
When he had come to where the Prior sat , he knelt upon one knee . 
Save and keep thee , Sir Prior , said he , I am come to keep my day . 
Now , thou art a shrewd debtor , I wot , said he . 
Then , Sir Sheriff , I drink to thee . 
But still the Knight kneeled upon the hard stones , so the Prior turned to him again . 
What wouldst thou have ? quoth he sharply . 
At these words , a slow red mounted into the Knight's cheeks but still he knelt . 
I would crave thy mercy , said he . 
As thou hopest for Heaven's mercy , show mercy to me . 
Strip me not of my lands and so reduce a true knight to poverty . 
Thy day is broken and thy lands forfeit , said the man of law , plucking up his spirits at the Knight's humble speech . 
Wilt thou not be my friend , Sir Sheriff ? said Sir Richard . 
Wilt thou not ease him of some of his debts , Sir Prior ? At this the Prior smiled grimly . 
Pay me three hundred pounds , Sir Richard , said he , and I will give thee quittance of thy debt . 
Thou knowest , Sir Prior , that it is as easy for me to pay four hundred pounds as three hundred , said Sir Richard . 
But wilt thou not give me another twelvemonth to pay my debt ? Not another day , said the Prior sternly . 
And is this all thou wilt do for me ? asked the Knight . 
Now , out upon thee , false knight ! cried the Prior , bursting forth in anger . 
Either pay thy debt as I have said , or release thy land and get thee gone from out my hall . 
Then Sir Richard arose to his feet . 
Hadst thou offered me a thousand pounds , false prior , said the Knight , thou wouldst not have got an inch of my land . 
Sir Richard took the bag and shot from it upon the table a glittering stream of golden money . 
Bear in mind , Sir Prior , said he , that thou hast promised me quittance for three hundred pounds . 
Not one farthing above that shalt thou get . 
So saying , he counted out three hundred pounds and pushed it toward the Prior . 
To him he turned , and quoth he , Give me back my money that thou hast . 
Nay , cried the other shrilly , it is but my fee that thou didst pay me , and thou gettest it not back again . 
And he hugged his gown about him . 
So saying , he turned upon his heel and strode away . 
All this time the Sheriff had been staring with wide open eyes and mouth agape at the tall man at arms , who stood as though carved out of stone . 
At last he gasped out , Reynold Greenleaf ! At this , the tall man at arms , who was no other than Little John , turned , grinning , to the Sheriff . 
I give thee good den , fair gossip , quoth he . 
I would say , sweet Sheriff , that I have heard all thy pretty talk this day , and it shall be duly told unto Robin Hood . 
So , farewell for the nonce , till we meet again in Sherwood Forest . 
Then he , also , turned and followed Sir Richard down the hall , leaving the Sheriff , all pale and amazed , shrunk together upon his chair . 
A merry feast it was to which Sir Richard came , but a sorry lot he left behind him , and little hunger had they for the princely food spread before them . 
Only the learned doctor was happy , for he had his fee . 
Now a twelvemonth and a day passed since Prior Vincent of Emmet sat at feast , and once more the mellow fall of another year had come . 
A year had made a great change in the castle , also , for , where were empty moats and the crumbling of neglect , all was now orderly and well kept . 
Bright shone the sun on battlement and tower , and in the blue air overhead a Hock of clattering jackdaws flew around the gilded weather vane and spire . 
In his hand the Knight held a great spear , from the point of which fluttered a blood red pennant as broad as the palm of one's hand . 
So this troop came forth from the castle , and in the midst of them walked three pack horses laden with parcels of divers shapes and kinds . 
Thus rode forth good Sir Richard of the Lea to pay his debt to Robin Hood this bright and merry morn . 
Along the highway they wended their way , with measured tramp of feet and rattle and jingle of sword and harness . 
Then Sir Richard turned to the man at arms nearest to him . 
What is toward yonder at Denby today ? quoth he . 
Now , by my faith , quoth Sir Richard , who loved good manly sports right well , this will be a goodly thing to see . 
Methinks we have to stay a little while on our journey , and see this merry sport . 
So he turned his horse's head aside toward Denby and the fair , and thither he and his men made their way . 
There they found a great hubbub of merriment . 
Flags and streamers were floating , tumblers were tumbling on the green , bagpipes were playing , and lads and lasses were dancing to the music . 
But the crowd were gathered most of all around a ring where the wrestling was going forward , and thither Sir Richard and his men turned their steps . 
So Sir Richard got down from his horse and went with the others to the bench raised beside the ring . 
Come one , come all ! quoth he . 
Here stand I , William of the Scar , against any man . 
He was not as heavy as stout William , but he was taller and broader in the shoulders , and all his joints were well knit . 
Sir Richard looked upon him keenly , then , turning to one of the judges , he said , Knowest thou who this youth is ? Methinks I have seen him before . 
Nay , said the judge , he is a stranger to me . 
Then like a flash they leaped together , and a great shout went up , for William had gotten the better hold of the two . 
So , with heavy , hot breathing , they stood for a while straining , their bodies all glistening with sweat , and great drops of sweat trickling down their faces . 
But the stranger's hug was so close that at last stout William's muscles softened under his grip , and he gave a sob . 
But now no shout went up for the stranger , but an angry murmur was heard among the crowd , so easily had he won the match . 
Then one of the judges , a kinsman to William of the Scar , rose with trembling lip and baleful look . 
Quoth he , If thou hath slain that man it will go ill with thee , let me tell thee , fellow . 
But the stranger answered boldly , He took his chance with me as I took mine with him . 
No law can touch me to harm me , even if I slew him , so that it was fairly done in the wrestling ring . 
Then up spoke Sir Richard gently . 
Nay , said he , the youth is right if the other dieth , he dieth in the wrestling ring , where he took his chance , and was cast fairly enow . 
But in the meantime three men had come forward and lifted stout William from the ground and found that he was not dead , though badly shaken by his heavy fall . 
Then the chief judge rose and said , Young man , the prize is duly thine . 
Here is the red gold ring , and here the gloves , and yonder stands the pipe of wine to do with whatsoever thou dost list . 
Now , I wonder who yon youth may be , said the judge , turning to Sir Richard , he seemeth like a stout Saxon from his red cheeks and fair hair . 
Hath he not a firm foot in the ring , thinkest thou , Sir Richard ? Ay , truly , and yet this youth threw him fairly , and with wondrous ease . 
I much wonder who he can be . 
Thus said Sir Richard in a thoughtful voice . 
So he walked slowly across the green to where the booth stood wherein was dancing , and standing at the door he looked in on the sport . 
At last a tall , broad shouldered , burly blacksmith strode forward from the crowd swinging a mighty blackthorn club in his hand . 
Take that , then ! And of a sudden he struck a blow at the youth that might have felled an ox . 
But the other turned the blow deftly aside , and gave back another so terrible that the Denby man went down with a groan , as though he had been smitten by lightning . 
Then , seeing him dazed with this vile blow , the crowd rushed upon him , so that they overbore him and he fell beneath their feet . 
Finding himself free , the youth arose and , wiping the blood from his face , looked up . 
Quoth he , Sir Richard of the Lea , mayhap thou hast saved my life this day . 
Who art thou that knowest Sir Richard of the Lea so well ? quoth the Knight . 
Methinks I have seen thy face before , young man . 
Yea , thou hast , said the youth , for men call me David of Doncaster . 
Come hither into the tent , David , and wash the blood from thy face . 
And thou , Ralph , bring him straightway a clean jerkin . 
So saying , the Knight led David into the tent , and there the youth washed the blood from his face and put on the clean jerkin . 
For thus fickle is a mass of men . 
Then Sir Richard called aloud , Friends , this is David of Doncaster so think it no shame that your Denby man was cast by such a wrestler . 
He beareth you no ill will for what hath passed , but let it be a warning to you how ye treat strangers henceforth . 
Had ye slain him it would have been an ill day for you , for Robin Hood would have harried your town as the kestrel harries the dovecote . 
I have bought the pipe of wine from him , and now I give it freely to you to drink as ye list . 
But never hereafterward fall upon a man for being a stout yeoman . 
At this all shouted amain but in truth they thought more of the wine than of the Knight's words . 
Then Sir Richard , with David beside him and his men at arms around , turned about and left the fair . 
Robin Hood stood in the merry greenwood with Little John and most of his stout yeomen around him , awaiting Sir Richard's coming . 
At last a glint of steel was seen through the brown forest leaves , and forth from the covert into the open rode Sir Richard at the head of his men . 
He came straight forward to Robin Hood and leaping from off his horse , clasped the yeoman in his arms . 
Yes , thanks to thee , Robin , said the Knight , laying his hand upon the yeoman's shoulder . 
But for thee I would have been wandering in misery in a far country by this time . 
Along with this money I have brought a little gift to thee and thy brave men from my dear lady and myself . 
Then , turning to his men , he called aloud , Bring forth the pack horses . 
Nay , Sir Richard , said he , think it not bold of me to cross thy bidding , but we of Sherwood do no business till after we have eaten and drunk . 
Then , when he had done speaking , Robin stretched out his hand and grasped the Knight's palm . 
So they talked until after a while one came forward to say that the feast was spread whereupon all arose and went thereto . 
When at last it was done , the Knight called upon his men to bring the pack horses forward , which they did according to his bidding . 
Sir Richard , quoth Robin , thou wilt pleasure us all if thou wilt keep that money as a gift from us of Sherwood . 
Is it not so , my lads ? Then all shouted Ay with a mighty voice . 
I thank you all deeply , said the Knight earnestly , but think it not ill of me if I cannot take it . 
Gladly have I borrowed it from you , but it may not be that I can take it as a gift . 
Then all shouted again for joy of the fair gift , and all swore among themselves that they would die if need be for Sir Richard and his lady . 
So they came to the edge of Sherwood , and there the Knight kissed Robin upon the cheeks and left him and was gone . 
Thus Robin Hood helped a noble knight out of his dire misfortunes , that else would have smothered the happiness from his life . 
Little John Turns Barefoot Friar COLD WINTER had passed and spring had come . 
No leafy thickness had yet clad the woodlands , but the budding leaves hung like a tender mist about the trees . 
In the open country the meadow lands lay a sheeny green , the cornfields a dark velvety color , for they were thick and soft with the growing blades . 
The plowboy shouted in the sun , and in the purple new turned furrows flocks of birds hunted for fat worms . 
All the broad moist earth smiled in the warm light , and each little green hill clapped its hand for joy . 
On a deer's hide , stretched on the ground in the open in front of the greenwood tree , sat Robin Hood basking in the sun like an old dog fox . 
Near by sat Allan a Dale fitting a new string to his harp . 
Quoth Robin at last , Methinks I would rather roam this forest in the gentle springtime than be King of all merry England . 
Yea , quoth Little John , as he rubbed his new made bowstring with yellow beeswax , the life we lead is the life for me . 
Thou speakest of the springtime , but methinks even the winter hath its own joys . 
Thou and I , good master , have had more than one merry day , this winter past , at the Blue Boar . 
Truly , it was the same , said Little John , laughing also . 
Methinks that was a goodly song that the strolling friar sang . 
Friar Tuck , thou hast a quick ear for a tune , dost thou not remember it ? I did have the catch of it one time , said Tuck . 
For the May bloometh fair , And there's little of care , And plenty to eat in the Maytime rare . 
When the flowers all die , Then off he will fly , To keep himself warm In some jolly old barn Where the snow and the wind neither chill him nor harm . 
Then he lustily trolls As he onward strolls , A rollicking song for the saving of souls . 
When the wind doth blow , With the coming of snow , There's a place by the fire For the fatherly friar , And a crab in the bowl for his heart's desire . 
Yea , it is a goodly song , said Robin Hood , but methought those two burly beggars told the merrier tales and led the merrier life . 
Truly , for the honor of the cloth , quoth Friar Tuck , I hold with my good gossip , Little John . 
Now , quoth Robin , I hold to mine own mind . 
Then let us wander the country about , this sweet day , and see what befalls each of us . 
But Little John's hands were folded in his loose sleeves , and Little John's eyes were cast upon the ground , and at his girdle hung a great , long string of beads . 
So , all being made ready , the two yeomen set forth on their way , striding lustily along all in the misty morning . 
Quoth jolly Robin , Take thou the road to Gainsborough , and I will take that to Blyth . 
So , fare thee well , holy father , and mayst thou not ha' cause to count thy beads in earnest ere we meet again . 
Good den , good beggar that is to be , quoth Little John , and mayst thou have no cause to beg for mercy ere I see thee next . 
So each stepped sturdily upon his way until a green hill rose between them , and the one was hid from the sight of the other . 
Little John walked along , whistling , for no one was nigh upon all the road . 
Here he met three pretty lasses , each bearing a basket of eggs to market . 
Quoth he , Whither away , fair maids ? And he stood in their path , holding his staff in front of them , to stop them . 
Then they huddled together and nudged one another , and one presently spake up and said , We are going to the Tuxford market , holy friar , to sell our eggs . 
Now out upon it ! quoth Little John , looking upon them with his head on one side . 
Surely , it is a pity that such fair lasses should be forced to carry eggs to market . 
At this speech all three of the pretty maids looked down , blushing and simpering . 
Now , look you , said Little John , I cannot see such dainty damsels as ye are carrying baskets along a highroad . 
Let me take them mine own self , and one of you , if ye will , may carry my staff for me . 
Nay , said one of the lasses , but thou canst not carry three baskets all at one time . 
Yea , but I can , said Little John , and that I will show you presently . 
I thank the good Saint Wilfred that he hath given me a pretty wit . 
For this Little John cared not a whit , but when such folks gave jesting words to him he answered back as merrily , speech for speech . 
So they stepped along toward Tuxford , chatting and laughing , until they came nigh to the town . 
Here Little John stopped and set down the baskets , for he did not care to go into the town lest he should , perchance , meet some of the Sheriff's men . 
Alas ! sweet chucks , quoth he , here I must leave you . 
I had not thought to come this way , but I am glad that I did so . 
Now , ere we part , we must drink sweet friendship . 
Then , kissing each lass sweetly , he wished them all good den , and left them . 
But the maids stood looking after him as he walked away whistling . 
What a pity , quoth one , that such a stout , lusty lad should be in holy orders . 
Marry , quoth Little John to himself , as he strode along , yon was no such ill happening Saint Dunstan send me more of the like . 
After he had trudged along for a time he began to wax thirsty again in the warmth of the day . 
He shook his leathern pottle beside his ear , but not a sound came therefrom . 
Then he placed it to his lips and tilted it high aloft , but not a drop was there . 
So he quickened his pace down the hill and so came to the little inn , from which hung a sign with a stag's head painted upon it . 
Beside the door stood two stout cobs with broad soft padded saddles , well fitted for easy traveling , and speaking of rich guests in the parlor . 
In front of the door three merry fellows , a tinker , a peddler , and a beggar , were seated on a bench in the sun quaffing stout ale . 
I give you good den , sweet friends , quoth Little John , striding up to where they sat . 
Give thee good den , holy father , quoth the merry Beggar with a grin . 
But look thee , thy gown is too short . 
Thou hadst best cut a piece off the top and tack it to the bottom , so that it may be long enough . 
But come , sit beside us here and take a taste of ale , if thy vows forbid thee not . 
Nay , quoth Little John , also grinning , the blessed Saint Dunstan hath given me a free dispensation for all indulgence in that line . 
And he thrust his hand into his pouch for money to pay his score . 
Nay , take thy hand from out thy pouch , brother , for thou shalt not pay this shot . 
Ho , landlord , a pot of ale ! So the ale was brought and given to Little John . 
Then he took the pot away , for there was nothing in it , and heaved a full deep sigh , looking at the others with moist eyes and shaking his head solemnly . 
So they talked among themselves merrily , until after a while quoth Little John , Who rideth those two nags yonder ? Two holy men like thee , brother , quoth the Beggar . 
They are now having a goodly feast within , for I smelled the steam of a boiled pullet just now . 
The landlady sayeth they come from Fountain Abbey , in Yorkshire , and go to Lincoln on matters of business . 
They are a merry couple , said the Tinker , for one is as lean as an old wife's spindle , and the other as fat as a suet pudding . 
Talking of fatness , said the Peddler , thou thyself lookest none too ill fed , holy friar . 
At this a great shout of laughter went up . 
Then , prythee , let us hear how he hath taught thee , quoth the Tinker . 
Marry , come up ! quoth Little John . 
Disgrace , sayest thou ? Methinks it is more disgrace for one of our garb to wring hard earned farthings out of the gripe of poor lean peasants . 
Then Little John arose of a sudden from the bench where he sat , and ran to where the brothers of Fountain Abbey were mounting . 
Quoth he , Let me hold your horses' bridles for you . 
Truly , your words have smitten my sinful heart , so that I will abide no longer in this den of evil , but will go forward with you . 
No vile temptation , I wot , will fall upon me in such holy company . 
Nay , fellow , said the lean Brother harshly , for he saw that Little John made sport of them , we want none of thy company , so get thee gone . 
Now , at this talk all the good fellows on the bench grinned till their teeth glistened , and even the landlord could not forbear to smile . 
As for the friars , they looked at one another with a puzzled look , and knew not what to do in the matter . 
Then up spake the fat Brother more mildly than he had done before . 
Nay , good brother , said he , we will ride fast , and thou wilt tire to death at the pace . 
At these words a sound of laughing came from the bench , whereat the lean Brother's wrath boiled over , like water into the fire , with great fuss and noise . 
Now , out upon thee , thou naughty fellow ! he cried . 
Art thou not ashamed to bring disgrace so upon our cloth ? Bide thee here , thou sot , with these porkers . 
Thou art no fit company for us . 
La , ye there now ! quoth Little John . 
Thou hearest , landlord thou art not fit company for these holy men go back to thine alehouse . 
Nay , if these most holy brothers of mine do but give me the word , I'll beat thy head with this stout staff till it is as soft as whipped eggs . 
So the two brethren , as they could do nought else , having mounted their nags , turned their noses toward Lincoln and rode away . 
I cannot stay longer , sweet friends , quoth Little John , as he pushed in betwixt the two cobs , therefore I wish you good den . 
Off we go , we three . 
So saying , he swung his stout staff over his shoulder and trudged off , measuring his pace with that of the two nags . 
So they galloped for a mile and more , and Little John ran betwixt them as lightly as a stag and never turned a hair with the running . 
At last the fat Brother drew his horse's rein with a groan , for he could stand the shaking no longer . 
To this the fat Friar said never a word , but he stared straight before him , and he gnawed his nether lip . 
with heads bowed with shame , riding upon richly caparisoned cobs on the footpaths . 
When they had come near to the minstrels , Little John waved his staff like an usher clearing the way . 
Make way ! he cried in a loud voice . 
Then next they met two noble knights in rich array , with hawk on wrist , and likewise two fair ladies clad in silks and velvets , all a riding on noble steeds . 
These all made room , staring , as Little John and the two friars came along the road . 
To them Little John bowed humbly . 
Give you greetings , lords and ladies , said he . 
But here we go , we three . 
Just ahead of them the road took a sudden turn around a high hedge , and some twoscore paces beyond the bend another road crossed the one they were riding upon . 
When they had come to the crossroad and were well away from those they had left , the lean Friar drew rein suddenly . 
Look ye , fellow , quoth he in a voice quivering with rage , we have had enough of thy vile company , and care no longer to be made sport of . 
Go thy way , and let us go ours in peace . 
La there , now ! quoth Little John . 
Methought we were such a merry company , and here thou dost blaze up like fat in the pan . 
But truly , I ha' had enow of you today , though I can ill spare your company . 
I know ye will miss me , but gin ye want me again , whisper to Goodman Wind , and he will bring news thereof to me . 
But ye see I am a poor man and ye are rich . 
I pray you give me a penny or two to buy me bread and cheese at the next inn . 
We have no money , fellow , said the lean Friar harshly . 
Come , Brother Thomas , let us forward . 
But Little John caught the horses by the bridle reins , one in either hand . 
Ha' ye in truth no money about you whatsoever ? said he . 
Now , I pray you , brothers , for charity's sake , give me somewhat to buy a crust of bread , e'en though it be only a penny . 
I tell thee , fellow , we have no money , thundered the fat little Friar with the great voice . 
Ha' ye , in holy truth , no money ? asked Little John . 
Not a farthing , said the lean Friar sourly . 
Not a groat , said the fat Friar loudly . 
Nay , quoth Little John , this must not be . 
Far be it from me to see such holy men as ye are depart from me with no money . 
What sayest thou , thou limb of evil ! cried the lean Friar , fairly gnashing his teeth with rage . 
So saying , he twirled his stout staff till it whistled again . 
At this speech both friars grew as pale as dough . 
Down slipped the fat Brother from off his horse on one side , and down slipped the lean Brother on the other . 
Then Little John began to beseech Saint Dunstan for money , which he did in a great loud voice . 
Ha ! quoth Little John , have your prayers so little virtue ? Then let us at it again . 
Now , quoth he , rising , let us see what each man hath . 
Then he thrust his hand into his pouch and drew thence four golden angels . 
What have ye , brothers ? said he . 
Then once again each friar slowly thrust his hand into his pouch , and once again brought it out with nothing in it . 
Have ye nothing ? quoth Little John . 
Nay , I warrant there is somewhat that hath crept into the seams of your pouches , and so ye ha' missed it . 
I thought , quoth Little John , that thou hadst missed , in some odd corner of thy pouch , the money that the blessed Saint had sent thee . 
And now let me see whether thou hast not some , also , brother . 
Thereupon he thrust his hand into the pouch of the fat Friar and drew thence a bag like the other and counted out from it threescore and ten pounds . 
Look ye now , quoth he , I knew the good Saint had sent thee some pittance that thou , also , hadst missed . 
Being holy men , I trust that ye would not belie your word so pledged , therefore I know the good Saint Dunstan hath sent this in answer to my prayers . 
But as I only prayed for ten shillings to be sent to each of you , all over and above that belongeth by rights to me , and so I take it . 
I give you good den , brothers , and may ye have a pleasant journey henceforth . 
So saying , he turned and left them , striding away . 
The friars looked at one another with a woeful look , and slowly and sadly they mounted their horses again and rode away with never a word . 
But Little John turned his footsteps back again to Sherwood Forest , and merrily he whistled as he strode along . 
And now we will see what befell Robin Hood in his venture as beggar . 
Robin Hood Turns Beggar AFTER JOLLY ROBIN had left Little John at the forking of the roads , he walked merrily onward in the mellow sunshine that shone about him . 
So he trudged manfully along , ever willing to stop for this reason or for that , and ever ready to chat with such merry lasses as he met now and then . 
So the morning slipped along , but yet he met no beggar with whom he could change clothes . 
Quoth he to himself , I would I had Willie Wynkin's wishing coat I know right well what I should wish for , and this it should be . 
Here he marked upon the fingers of his left hand with the forefinger of his right hand those things which he wished for . 
Firstly , I would have a sweet brown pie of tender larks mark ye , not dry cooked , but with a good sop of gravy to moisten it withal . 
Next , I would have a pretty pullet , fairly boiled , with tender pigeons' eggs , cunningly sliced , garnishing the platter around . 
Thus spoke Robin to himself , his mouth growing moist at the corners with the thoughts of the good things he had raised in his own mind . 
His coat was gathered in at his waist , and was patched with as many colors as there are stripes upon a Maypole in the springtide . 
On his head he wore a great tall leathern cap , and across his knees rested a stout quarterstaff of blackthorn , full as long and heavy as Robin's . 
And so it is with me , bully boy , saving that my doxy cometh not . 
At this the jolly Beggar cocked his head on one side , like a rogue of a magpie . 
Marry , I make no such serious thoughts upon the matter . 
I was sitting here , as thou camest upon me , bethinking myself whether I should break my fast or no . 
I have a sharp hunger upon me now , but methinks in a short while it will ripen to a right mellow appetite . 
Now , in good sooth , quoth merry Robin , laughing , thou hast a quaint tongue betwixt thy teeth . 
But hast thou truly nought but a dry crust about thee ? Methinks thy bags and pouches are fat and lusty for such thin fare . 
Why , mayhap there is some other cold fare therein , said the Beggar slyly . 
And hast thou nought to drink but cold water ? said Robin . 
Never so much as a drop , quoth the Beggar . 
Over beyond yon clump of trees is as sweet a little inn as ever thou hast lifted eyelid upon but I go not thither , for they have a nasty way with me . 
Ever since then they have acted very ill toward me yet truth bids me say that they have the best ale there that ever rolled over my tongue . 
At this Robin laughed aloud . 
Marry , quoth he , they did ill toward thee for thy kindness . 
Here I behold a dainty streaked piece of brawn , and here a fair lump of white bread . 
Here I find four oaten cakes and a cold knuckle of ham . 
Ha ! In sooth , 'tis strange but here I behold six eggs that must have come by accident from some poultry yard hereabouts . 
They are raw , but roasted upon the coals and spread with a piece of butter that I see Peace , good friend ! cried Robin , holding up his hand . 
Thou makest my poor stomach quake with joy for what thou tellest me so sweetly . 
Friend , thou hast said enough , said the Beggar , getting down from the stile . 
I will feast thee with the best that I have and bless Saint Cedric for thy company . 
After a while back came Robin bearing a goodly skin of ale upon his shoulder , which he laid upon the grass . 
Friend , said the Beggar , let me feel the weight of that skin . 
Yea , truly , quoth Robin , help thyself , sweet chuck , and meantime let me see whether thy pigeon pie is fresh or no . 
And now , good friend , quoth he , leaning upon one elbow , I would have at thee about that other matter of seriousness of which I spoke not long since . 
How ! said the Beggar reproachfully , thou wouldst surely not talk of things appertaining to serious affairs upon such ale as this ! Nay , quoth Robin , laughing . 
I would not check thy thirst , sweet friend drink while I talk to thee . 
Thus it is I would have thee know that I have taken a liking to thy craft and would fain have a taste of a beggar's life mine own self . 
I tell thee , lad , thou art too old to enter upon that which it may take thee years to catch the hang of . 
Classes of traveling mendicants that infested England as late as the middle of the seventeenth century . 
VIDE Dakkar's ENGLISH VILLAINIES , etc . 
Mayhap that may be so , quoth Robin , for I bring to mind that Gaffer Swanthold sayeth Jack Shoemaker maketh ill bread Tom Baker maketh ill shoon . 
Nevertheless , I have a mind to taste a beggar's life , and need but the clothing to be as good as any . 
I tell thee , fellow , said the Beggar , if thou wert clad as sweetly as good Saint Wynten , the patron of our craft , thou wouldst never make a beggar . 
Marry , the first jolly traveler that thou wouldst meet would beat thee to a pudding for thrusting thy nose into a craft that belongeth not to thee . 
Nevertheless , quoth Robin , I would have a try at it and methinks I shall change clothes with thee , for thy garb seemeth to be pretty , not to say gay . 
So not only will I change clothes , but I will give thee two golden angels to boot . 
To this the Beggar listened with his knuckles resting against his hips , and when Robin had ended he cocked his head on one side and thrust his tongue into his cheek . 
Marry , come up , quoth he at last . 
Now thou shalt not have so much as one tag rag of my coat , even could it save thee from hanging . 
So defend thyself , I say . 
Then up leaped merry Robin and snatched up his staff also . 
Take my money , if thou canst , quoth he . 
I promise freely to give thee every farthing if thou dost touch me . 
And he twirled his staff in his fingers till it whistled again . 
Then the Beggar swung his staff also , and struck a mighty blow at Robin , which the yeoman turned . 
Three blows the Beggar struck , yet never one touched so much as a hair of Robin's head . 
How now ! quoth merry Robin , laughing . 
Wilt thou have my hide or my money , sweet chuck ? But to this the other answered never a word . 
If thou givest them not freely , I much fear me I shall have to and he looked up and down his staff . 
Then Riccon sat up and rubbed the bump on his crown . 
Now , out upon it ! quoth he . 
I did think to drub thee sweetly , fellow . 
I know not how it is , but I seem , as it were , to have bought more beer than I can drink . 
I promise on the word of a true yeoman , quoth Robin , thinking that the fellow had a few pennies that he would save . 
Then each stripped off his clothes and put on those of the other , and as lusty a beggar was Robin Hood as e'er you could find of a summer's day . 
But stout Riccon of Holywell skipped and leaped and danced for joy of the fair suit of Lincoln green that he had so gotten . 
Quoth he , I am a gay feathered bird now . 
Truly , my dear Moll Peascod would never know me in this dress . 
Thou mayst keep the cold pieces of the feast , friend , for I mean to live well and lustily while my money lasts and my clothes are gay . 
Then hey , Willy Waddykin , Stay , Billy Waddykin , And let the brown ale flow free , flow free , The beggar's the man for me . 
Robin listened till the song ended in the distance , then he also crossed the stile into the road , but turned his toes away from where the Beggar had gone . 
The road led up a gentle hill and up the hill Robin walked , a half score or more of bags dangling about his legs . 
Onward he strolled for a long time , but other adventure he found not . 
So Robin , with all the empty road to himself , strode along whistling merrily , his bags and pouches bobbing and dangling at his thighs . 
Four merry beggars were they , and each had slung about his neck a little board that rested upon his breast . 
One board had written upon it , I am blind , another , I am deaf , another , I am dumb , and the fourth , Pity the lame one . 
The deaf man was the first to hear Robin , for he said , Hark , brothers , I hear someone coming . 
And the blind man was the first to see him , for he said , He is an honest man , brothers , and one of like craft to ourselves . 
We are glad to see thee , brother , said he , holding out the flask of Malmsey . 
I drink to your happiness , brothers , as I may not drink to your health , seeing ye are already hale , wind and limb . 
Whence comest thou , lad ? asked the Dumb man . 
Why , quoth Robin , I came this morning from sleeping overnight in Sherwood . 
Is it even so ? said the Deaf man . 
I would not for all the money we four are carrying to Lincoln Town sleep one night in Sherwood . 
If Robin Hood caught one of our trade in his woodlands he would , methinks , clip his ears . 
Methinks he would , too , quoth Robin , laughing . 
But what money is this that ye speak of ? Then up spake the Lame man . 
Truly , quoth he , I trust I am an upright man , at least , I strive to be but I know not what thou meanest by such jargon , brother . 
It were much more seemly , methinks , if yon Dumb man , who hath a sweet voice , would give us a song . 
At these words a silence fell on all , and after a while the Blind man spoke again . 
Quoth he , Thou dost surely jest when thou sayest that thou dost not understand such words . 
Now out upon it , quoth Robin Hood testily , an ye make sport of me by pattering such gibberish , it will be ill for you all , I tell you . 
Brother , pass the pottle lest it grow cold . 
But Robin was ready for any happening . 
Crick ! Crack ! he struck two blows as quick as a wink , and down went the Blind man , rolling over and over upon the grass . 
At this the others bore back and stood at a little distance scowling upon Robin . 
Come on , ye scum ! cried he merrily . 
Here be cakes and ale for all . 
Then , seeing them so hesitate , Robin of a sudden leaped upon them , striking even as he leaped . 
Down went the Dumb man , and away flew his cudgel from his hand as he fell . 
Then Robin turned to the two stout knaves lying upon the ground . 
It were a pity to let sound money stay in the pockets of such thieving knaves . 
This he stripped away and , weighing it in his hands , bethought himself that it was mighty heavy . 
It were a sweet thing , said he to himself , if this were filled with gold instead of copper pence . 
Then , sitting down upon the grass , he opened the pocket and looked into it . 
Quoth Robin , I have oft heard that the Beggars' Guild was over rich , but never did I think that they sent such sums as this to their treasury . 
I shall take it with me , for it will be better used for charity and the good of my merry band than in the enriching of such knaves as these . 
So saying , he rolled up the money in the sheepskin again , and putting it back in the purse , he thrust the pouch into his own bosom . 
Then , taking up his staff , he left the spot and went merrily on his way . 
So he looked up the road and down the road to see who might come , until at last he saw someone drawing near , riding upon a horse . 
When the traveler came nigh enough for him to see him well , Robin laughed , for a strange enough figure he cut . 
Who art thou , fellow , that doth dare to stop me thus upon the King's highway ? said the lean man , in a dry , sour voice . 
Pity a poor beggar , quoth Robin . 
Give me but a farthing to buy me a piece of bread . 
Now , out upon thee ! snarled the other . 
Such sturdy rogues as thou art are better safe in the prisons or dancing upon nothing , with a hempen collar about the neck , than strolling the highways so freely . 
Tut , quoth Robin , how thou talkest ! Thou and I are brothers , man . 
Doss thou prate so to me , sirrah ? cried the Corn Engrosser in a rage . 
Were Robin Hood himself to take me , he might search me from crown to heel without finding the smallest piece of money upon me . 
I trust I am too sly to travel so nigh to Sherwood with money in my pouch , and that thief at large in the woods . 
There is not a grain of dirt upon my hands or my face or my body . 
Didst thou ever see a beggar so ? I tell thee I am as honest a man as thou art . 
Here he took the purse of money from his breast and showed to the dazzled eyes of the Corn Engrosser the bright golden pieces . 
Friend , these rags serve but to hide an honest rich man from the eyes of Robin Hood . 
Put up thy money , lad , cried the other quickly . 
Is it indeed so ? quoth Robin . 
Had I known this , mayhap I had not come hereabouts in this garb . 
But I must go forward now , as much depends upon my journeying . 
Where goest thou , friend ? I go to Grantham , said the Corn Engrosser , but I shall lodge tonight at Newark , if I can get so far upon my way . 
Then forward , quoth Robin , for the day wanes and it will be dark ere we reach Newark . 
So they traveled along till they reached a hill just on the outskirts of Sherwood . 
Then he turned in his saddle and spake to Robin again , for the first time since they had left the cross . 
Here is thy greatest danger , friend , said he , for here we are nighest to that vile thief Robin Hood , and the place where he dwells . 
Beyond this we come again to the open honest country , and so are more safe in our journeying . 
Then the other looked at Robin and winked cunningly . 
Thou dost surely jest , quoth Robin . 
Peace , friend , said the Corn Engrosser , for this is no matter for jesting . 
When the Corn Engrosser had told this , Robin broke into a roar of laughter and , laying his hands upon the bridle rein , stopped the sad looking nag . 
All this time the Corn Engrosser had been staring at Robin , his mouth agape with wonder . 
Nay , quoth Robin , the tears of merriment wet on his cheeks , on second thoughts I go no farther than here , for I have good friends hereabouts . 
Thou mayst go forward if thou dost list , thou sweet pretty fellow , but thou must go forward barefoot , for I am afraid that thy shoon must be left behind . 
Off with them , friend , for I tell thee I have taken a great fancy to them . 
At these words the corn factor grew pale as a linen napkin . 
Who art thou that talkest so ? said he . 
Then straightway , and without more words , he stripped off his clogs and let them fall upon the road . 
Robin , still holding the bridle rein , stooped and picked them up . 
Then he said , Sweet friend , I am used to ask those that I have dealings with to come and feast at Sherwood with me . 
I will not ask thee , because of our pleasant journey together for I tell thee there be those in Sherwood that would not be so gentle with thee as I have been . 
The name of Corn Engrosser leaves a nasty taste upon the tongue of all honest men . 
Take a fool's advice of me and come no more so nigh to Sherwood , or mayhap some day thou mayst of a sudden find a clothyard shaft betwixt thy ribs . 
So , with this , I give thee good den . 
Hereupon he clapped his hand to the horse's flank and off went nag and rider . 
Robin stood and looked after him , and , when he was fairly gone , turned , laughing , and entered the forest carrying the shoes in his hand . 
All listened closely , and again and again the woods rang with shouts of laughter . 
When all was told , Friar Tuck spoke up . 
So some of the band held with Robin Hood and some with Little John . 
As for me , I think But I leave it with you to say for yourselves which you hold with . 
Robin Hood Shoots Before Queen Eleanor THE HIGHROAD stretched white and dusty in the hot summer afternoon sun , and the trees stood motionless along the roadside . 
He could not have been more than sixteen years of age , and was as fair as any maiden . 
His long yellow hair flowed behind him as he rode along , all clad in silk and velvet , with jewels flashing and dagger jingling against the pommel of the saddle . 
Thus came the Queen's Page , young Richard Partington , from famous London Town down into Nottinghamshire , upon Her Majesty's bidding , to seek Robin Hood in Sherwood Forest . 
Here he drew rein and called loudly for a pottle of Rhenish wine to be brought him , for stout country ale was too coarse a drink for this young gentleman . 
Two of the stoutest of them were clothed in Lincoln green , and a great heavy oaken staff leaned against the gnarled oak tree trunk beside each fellow . 
The landlord came and brought a pottle of wine and a long narrow glass upon a salver , which he held up to the Page as he sat upon his horse . 
At these words all stared , but presently the two stout yeomen in Lincoln green began whispering together . 
Methinks I and my friend here might safely guide thee to Robin Hood , for we know where he may be found . 
Yet I tell thee plainly , we would not for all merry England have aught of harm befall him . 
Set thy mind at ease I bring nought of ill with me , quoth Richard Partington . 
I bring a kind message to him from our Queen , therefore an ye know where he is to be found , I pray you to guide me thither . 
Then the two yeomen looked at one another again , and the tall man said , Surely it were safe to do this thing , Will whereat the other nodded . 
Then Partington paid his score , and the yeomen coming forward , they all straightway departed upon their way . 
Then Robin arose and stepped forth to meet him , and Partington leaped from his horse and doffing his cap of crimson velvet , met Robin as he came . 
Now , welcome ! cried Robin . 
To thee I bring greetings from our noble Queen Eleanor . 
Our Queen would fain see thee strive with these , knowing that if thou wilt come thou wilt , with little doubt , carry off the prize . 
Then Robin Hood bowed his head and taking the ring , kissed it right loyally , and then slipped it upon his little finger . 
Quoth he , Sooner would I lose my life than this ring and ere it departs from me , my hand shall be cold in death or stricken off at the wrist . 
Truly , thou art right , quoth Robin , and we have but short time to stay therefore I will get me ready presently . 
Go , lads , and get ye ready straightway , and we will presently off with all speed that we may . 
Thou , Will Stutely , shall be the chief of the band while I am gone . 
Then Little John and Will Scarlet and Allan a Dale ran leaping , full of joy , to make themselves ready , while Robin also prepared himself for the journey . 
Then , seeing all were ready , young Partington mounted his horse again , and the yeomen having shaken hands all around , the five departed upon their way . 
Queen Eleanor sat in her royal bower , through the open casements of which poured the sweet yellow sunshine in great floods of golden light . 
To her came one who said that her page , Richard Partington , and four stout yeomen waited her pleasure in the court below . 
Then Queen Eleanor arose joyously and bade them be straightway shown into her presence . 
Thus Robin Hood and Little John and Will Scarlet and Allan a Dale came before the Queen into her own royal bower . 
Then Robin kneeled before the Queen with his hands folded upon his breast , saying in simple phrase , Here am I , Robin Hood . 
Thou didst bid me come , and lo , I do thy bidding . 
I give myself to thee as thy true servant , and will do thy commanding , even if it be to the shedding of the last drop of my life's blood . 
But good Queen Eleanor smiled pleasantly upon him , bidding him to arise . 
Then she made them all be seated to rest themselves after their long journey . 
Rich food was brought them and noble wines , and she had her own pages to wait upon the wants of the yeomen . 
At last , after they had eaten all they could , she began questioning them of their merry adventures . 
Floating on thy breast forever Down thy current I could glide Grief and pain should reach me never On thy bright and gentle tide . 
So my aching heart seeks thine , love , There to find its rest and peace , For , through loving , bliss is mine , love , And my many troubles cease . 
So the time passed till the hour drew nigh for the holding of the great archery match in Finsbury Fields . 
A gay sight were famous Finsbury Fields on that bright and sunny morning of lusty summertime . 
The seven other archer captains were also men of great renown among them were Egbert of Kent and William of Southampton but those first named were most famous of all . 
The noise of many voices in talk and laughter came from within the booths , and in and out ran the attendants like ants about an ant hill . 
Some bore ale and beer , and some bundles of bowstrings or sheaves of arrows . 
So all was ready for the coming of the King and Queen . 
Behind these came stout King Henry upon a dapple gray stallion , with his Queen beside him upon a milk white palfrey . 
On either side of them walked the yeomen of the guard , the bright sunlight flashing from the polished blades of the steel halberds they carried . 
When all was quiet a bugle sounded , and straightway the archers came marching in order from their tents . 
Fortyscore they were in all , as stalwart a band of yeomen as could be found in all the wide world . 
So they came in orderly fashion and stood in front of the dais where King Henry and his Queen sat . 
King Henry looked up and down their ranks right proudly , for his heart warmed within him at the sight of such a gallant band of yeomen . 
Then he bade his herald Sir Hugh de Mowbray stand forth and proclaim the rules governing the game . 
These three should shoot three arrows apiece , and the one that shot the best should again be chosen . 
Each of the others should have fourscore silver pennies for his shooting . 
The second prize was to be fivescore of the fattest bucks that run on Dallen Lea , to be shot when the yeoman that won them chose . 
The third prize was to be two tuns of good Rhenish wine . 
So Sir Hugh spoke , and when he had done all the archers waved their bows aloft and shouted . 
Then each band turned and marched in order back to its place . 
And now the shooting began , the captains first taking stand and speeding their shafts and then making room for the men who shot , each in turn , after them . 
Then a great hubbub of voices arose , each man among the crowd that looked on calling for his favorite archer . 
Then ten fresh targets were brought forward , and every sound was hushed as the archers took their places once more . 
This time the shooting was more speedily done , for only nine shafts were shot by each band . 
Then the judges came forward again , and looking at the targets , called aloud the names of the archer chosen as the best bowman of each band . 
But I will only match them with thy archers providing that thou wilt grant a free pardon to all that may come in my behalf . 
At this , the King laughed loud and long . 
Truly , said he , thou art taking up with strange matters for a queen . 
Moreover , if these that thou bringest shoot better than my yeomen , man for man , they shall have the prizes for themselves according to their shooting . 
All that stood around smiled at this , for it seemed a merry wager for a king to give to a queen but Queen Eleanor bowed her head quietly . 
I will take thy wager , said she , for I know right well where to place those things that thou hast spoken of . 
Moreover , there are no such archers as His Majesty's in all the world therefore I would but lose my money . 
Then the Queen turned to a knight who stood near , whose name was Sir Robert Lee . 
Wilt thou back me in this manner ? said she . 
Thou art surely rich enough to risk so much for the sake of a lady . 
Now , I take thy wager , quoth the King . 
Send for thy archers straightway . 
But here come forth the others let them shoot , and then I will match those that win against all the world . 
So be it , said the Queen . 
And now the ten archers of the King's guard took their stand again , and all the great crowd was hushed to the stillness of death . 
Slowly and carefully each man shot his shafts , and so deep was the silence that you could hear every arrow rap against the target as it struck it . 
Then , when the last shaft had sped , a great roar went up and the shooting , I wot , was well worthy of the sound . 
All the archers around Gilbert's booth shouted for joy till their throats were hoarse , tossing their caps aloft , and shaking hands with one another . 
In the midst of all the noise and hubbub five men came walking across the lawn toward the King's pavilion . 
The first was Richard Partington , and was known to most folk there , but the others were strange to everybody . 
Beside young Partington walked a yeoman clad in blue , and behind came three others , two in Lincoln green and one in scarlet . 
This last yeoman carried three stout bows of yew tree , two fancifully inlaid with silver and one with gold . 
While these five men came walking across the meadow , a messenger came running from the King's booth and summoned Gilbert and Tepus and Hubert to go with him . 
And now the shouting quickly ceased , for all saw that something unwonted was toward , so the folk stood up in their places and leaned forward to see what was the ado . 
When Partington and the others came before the spot where the King and Queen sat , the four yeomen bent their knees and doffed their caps unto her . 
King Henry leaned far forward and stared at them closely , but the Bishop of Hereford , when he saw their faces , started as though stung by a wasp . 
Then the Queen leaned forward and spake in a clear voice . 
Locksley , said she , I have made a wager with the King that thou and two of thy men can outshoot any three that he can send against you . 
At this speech the King's brows drew together blackly , and he turned to the Queen . 
Is this true ? said he sternly . 
I did little think that the good Bishop would so betray his friends . 
But bear in mind that thou hast pledged thy promise for the safety of these good yeomen for forty days . 
Then he turned to his archers , who stood near the Sherwood yeomen , listening and wondering at all that passed . 
Quoth he , Gilbert , and thou , Tepus , and thou , Hubert , I have pledged myself that ye shall shoot against these three fellows . 
Do your best , lads , and if ye win this bout ye shall be glad of it to the last days of your life . 
Go , now , and get you gone to the butts . 
Then the three archers of the King turned and went back to their booths , and Robin and his men went to their places at the mark from which they were to shoot . 
Then they strung their bows and made themselves ready , looking over their quivers of arrows , and picking out the roundest and the best feathered . 
The news of this buzzed around among the archers in the booths , for there was not a man there that had not heard of these great mid country yeomen . 
Six fresh targets were now set up , one for each man that was to shoot whereupon Gilbert and Tepus and Hubert came straightway forth from the booths . 
Hubert took his place , planted his foot firmly , and fitted a fair , smooth arrow then , breathing upon his fingertips , he drew the string slowly and carefully . 
At this a shout went up , for it was the best shooting that Hubert had yet done that day . 
Merry Robin laughed , and quoth he , Thou wilt have an ill time bettering that round , Will , for it is thy turn next . 
Brace thy thews , lad , and bring not shame upon Sherwood . 
At this Robin bit his lips . 
Then all those that looked on clapped their hands for joy because that Hubert had overcome the stranger . 
Quoth the King grimly , to the Queen , If thy archers shoot no better than that , thou art like to lose thy wager , lady . 
But Queen Eleanor smiled , for she looked for better things from Robin Hood and Little John . 
And now Tepus took his place to shoot . 
He , also , took overheed to what he was about , and so he fell into Will Scarlet's error . 
Quoth Robin Hood , That is the sweetest shot that hath been sped this day but , nevertheless , friend Tepus , thy cake is burned , methinks . 
Little John , it is thy turn next . 
So Little John took his place as bidden , and shot his three arrows quickly . 
Well done , Gilbert ! quoth Robin Hood , smiting him upon the shoulder . 
I make my vow , thou art one of the best archers that ever mine eyes beheld . 
Thou shouldst be a free and merry ranger like us , lad , for thou art better fitted for the greenwood than for the cobblestones and gray walls of London Town . 
So saying , he took his place , and drew a fair , round arrow from his quiver , which he turned over and over ere he fitted it to his bowstring . 
But it may be Saint Hubert's ears were stuffed with tow , for he seemed not to hear the King's prayer this day . 
Having gotten three shafts to his liking , merry Robin looked carefully to his bowstring ere he shot . 
Yea , quoth he to Gilbert , who stood nigh him to watch his shooting , thou shouldst pay us a visit at merry Sherwood . 
Here he drew the bowstring to his ear . 
In London here he loosed his shaft thou canst find nought to shoot at but rooks and daws there one can tickle the ribs of the noblest stags in England . 
So he shot even while he talked , yet the shaft lodged not more than half an inch from the very center . 
By my soul ! cried Gilbert . 
Art thou the devil in blue , to shoot in that wise ? Nay , quoth Robin , laughing , not quite so ill as that , I trust . 
And he took up another shaft and fitted it to the string . 
But the King , full of wrath , would not have it so , though he knew in his mind that his men could not stand against those fellows . 
They shall shoot again , and still again , till either he or that knave Robin Hood cometh off the best . 
Go thou , Sir Hugh , and bid them shoot another round , and another , until one or the other is overcome . 
With all my heart , quoth merry Robin , I will shoot from this time till tomorrow day if it can pleasure my most gracious lord and King . 
Take thy place , Gilbert lad , and shoot . 
Thy eggs are cracked , Gilbert , quoth Robin , laughing and straightway he loosed a shaft , and once more smote the white circle of the center . 
Then he and his Queen and all the court left the place , but the King's heart was brimming full of wrath . 
Thus it happened presently that the yeomen , to whom Gilbert stood talking , were all surrounded by a crowd of people that formed a ring about them . 
And as he spake he handed those things to Robin , and then turned to Little John . 
To thee , he said , belongeth the second prize , to wit , fivescore of the finest harts that run on Dallen Lea . 
Thou mayest shoot them whensoever thou dost list . 
Last of all he turned to stout Hubert . 
These shall be delivered to thee whensoever thou dost list . 
Then he called upon the other seven of the King's archers who had last shot , and gave each fourscore silver pennies . 
Take it , man , and would it were ten times as much , for thou art a right yeoman , good and true . 
Furthermore , to each of the ten that last shot I give one of these golden shafts apiece . 
At this all shouted aloud , for it pleased them to hear Robin speak so of them . 
Then up spake Little John . 
Twoscore and ten I give to thee for thine own shooting , and five I give to each band for their pleasure . 
While they so shouted with loud voices , a tall burly yeoman of the King's guard came forward and plucked Robin by the sleeve . 
This message he bade me tell thee privily , word for word , and thus it was . 
Let me see I trust I have forgot it not yea , thus it was The lion growls . 
Is it so ? quoth Robin , starting for he knew right well that it was the Queen sent the message , and that she spake of the King's wrath . 
Now , I thank thee , good fellow , for thou hast done me greater service than thou knowest of this day . 
Then he called his three yeomen together and told them privately that they had best be jogging , as it was like to be ill for them so nigh merry London Town . 
So , without tarrying longer , they made their way through the crowd until they had come out from the press . 
Then , without stopping , they left London Town and started away northward . 
The Chase of Robin Hood SO ROBIN HOOD and the others left the archery range at Finsbury Fields , and , tarrying not , set forth straightway upon their homeward journey . 
At these words the King raised his eyes and looked grimly upon the Bishop . 
Sayst thou so ? quoth he . 
Nay , my gracious lord , if he doth once plant foot in the woodland , he is lost to the law forever . 
At these words the King tapped his fingertips upon the table beside him with vexation . 
What wouldst thou have me do , Bishop ? quoth he . 
Didst thou not hear me pledge my word to the Queen ? Thy talk is as barren as the wind from the bellows upon dead coals . 
This he did not for the well being of Robin Hood , but because he would save his lord's honor if he could . 
The shadows grew long , and finally merged into the grayness of the mellow twilight . 
The great round moon was floating breathlessly up in the eastern sky when they saw before them the twinkling lights of Barnet Town , some ten or twelve miles from London . 
Before this inn Robin Hood stopped , for the spot pleased him well . 
Quoth he , Here will we take up our inn and rest for the night , for we are well away from London Town and our King's wrath . 
Moreover , if I mistake not , we will find sweet faring within . 
What say ye , lads ? In sooth , good master , quoth Little John , thy bidding and my doing ever fit together like cakes and ale . 
Let us in , I say also . 
Nevertheless , if thou thinkest best , let us in for the night , say I also . 
So in they went and called for the best that the place afforded . 
Then a right good feast was set before them , with two stout bottles of old sack to wash it down withal . 
So Robin arose quickly , and , bidding the landlord not to follow him , left the others gazing at one another , and wondering what was about to happen . 
When Robin came out of the inn , he found young Richard Partington sitting upon his horse in the white moonlight , awaiting his coming . 
What news bearest thou , Sir Page ? said Robin . 
I trust that it is not of an ill nature . 
Why , said young Partington , for the matter of that , it is ill enow . 
The King hath been bitterly stirred up against thee by that vile Bishop of Hereford . 
He hath given the Bishop of Hereford command over all these men , and thou knowest what thou hast to expect of the Bishop of Hereford short shrift and a long rope . 
This word the Queen hath bidden me bring to thee . 
As for that Bishop of Hereford , if I ever catch him nigh to Sherwood again , things will be like to go ill with him . 
We will go by devious ways , and so , I hope , will reach Sherwood in safety . 
And now , Sir Page , I wish thee farewell . 
Farewell , thou bold yeoman , said young Partington , and mayst thou reach thy hiding in safety . 
So each shook the other's hand , and the lad , turning his horse's head , rode back toward London , while Robin entered the inn once more . 
So we will go forward once more , nor will we stop this night till we reach Saint Albans . 
Hereupon , taking out his purse , he paid the landlord his score , and so they left the inn . 
So , be ye wily , said Robin Hood , and keep well away from the northward roads till ye have gotten well to the eastward . 
And thou , Will Scarlet , take the lead of the others , for thou hast a cunning turn to thy wits . 
Then Robin kissed the three upon the cheeks , and they kissed him , and so they parted company . 
Not long after this , a score or more of the King's men came clattering up to the door of the inn at Barnet Town . 
Here they leaped from their horses and quickly surrounded the place , the leader of the band and four others entering the room where the yeomen had been . 
But they found that their birds had flown again , and that the King had been balked a second time . 
Methought that they were naughty fellows , said the host , when he heard whom the men at arms sought . 
Thence they turned northward , and came through Cambridge and Lincolnshire , to the good town of Gainsborough . 
Eight days they journeyed thus ere they reached the woodlands in safety , but when they got to the greenwood glade , they found that Robin had not yet returned . 
For Robin was not as lucky in getting back as his men had been , as you shall presently hear . 
After having left the great northern road , he turned his face to the westward , and so came past Aylesbury , to fair Woodstock , in Oxfordshire . 
Thence he turned his footsteps northward , traveling for a great distance by way of Warwick Town , till he came to Dudley , in Staffordshire . 
But there is many a slip betwixt the cup and the lip , and this Robin was to find . 
Presently another band of horsemen came , and another , until all the moonlit streets were full of armed men . 
Betwixt midnight and dawn another band came to the town , and with them came the Bishop of Hereford . 
At last he came to where a little stream spread across the road in a shallow sheet , tinkling and sparkling as it fretted over its bed of golden gravel . 
Here Robin stopped , being athirst , and , kneeling down , he made a cup of the palms of his hands , and began to drink . 
But of a sudden , as he thus stooped , drinking , something hissed past his ear , and struck with a splash into the gravel and water beside him . 
Then up the road came riding some of the King's men at headlong speed . 
They leaped from their horses and plunged straightway into the thicket after Robin . 
Then , buckling his belt more tightly around his waist , he ran fleetly down the road toward the eastward and Sherwood . 
So back he ran with all speed , and had gotten safely past the thickets , when the seven men came forth into the open road . 
He never slackened his pace , but ran along , mile after mile , till he had come nigh to Mackworth , over beyond the Derwent River , nigh to Derby Town . 
By my soul , Robin , quoth he to himself , that was the narrowest miss that e'er thou hadst in all thy life . 
I do say most solemnly that the feather of that wicked shaft tickled mine ear as it whizzed past . 
This same running hath given me a most craving appetite for victuals and drink . 
Now I pray Saint Dunstan that he send me speedily some meat and beer . 
At these words the Cobbler's eyes opened big and wide , and his mouth grew round with wonder , like a knothole in a board fence . 
slack a day , quoth he , look ye , now ! I ha' never seen those same golden birds . 
And dost thou in sooth find them in these hedges , good fellow ? Prythee , tell me , are there many of them ? I would fain find them mine own self . 
Ay , truly , quoth Robin , they are as thick here as fresh herring in Cannock Chase . 
Look ye , now ! said the Cobbler , all drowned in wonder . 
Why , said he at last , in the one is good March beer , and in the other is a fat capon . 
Truly , Quince the Cobbler will ha' a fine feast this day an I mistake not . 
But tell me , good Quince , said Robin , hast thou a mind to sell those things to me ? For the hearing of them sounds sweet in mine ears . 
I will give thee these gay clothes of blue that I have upon my body and ten shillings to boot for thy clothes and thy leather apron and thy beer and thy capon . 
Never a jest do I speak , quoth Robin . 
Come , strip thy jacket off and I will show thee , for I tell thee I like thy clothes well . 
Moreover , I will be kind to thee , for I will feast straightway upon the good things thou hast with thee , and thou shalt be bidden to the eating . 
So each put on the other fellow's clothes , and Robin gave the honest Cobbler ten bright new shillings . 
Quoth merry Robin , I ha' been a many things in my life before , but never have I been an honest cobbler . 
Come , friend , let us fall to and eat , for something within me cackles aloud for that good fat capon . 
So both sat down and began to feast right lustily , so that when they were done the bones of the capon were picked as bare as charity . 
Then Robin stretched his legs out with a sweet feeling of comfort within him . 
Quoth he , By the turn of thy voice , good Quince , I know that thou hast a fair song or two running loose in thy head like colts in a meadow . 
I prythee , turn one of them out for me . 
A song or two I ha' , quoth the Cobbler , poor things , poor things , but such as they are thou art welcome to one of them . 
Oho ! thou cunning rascal ! thou wouldst look so innocent , forsooth ! We know thee , thou old fox . 
But off thou goest with us to have thy brush clipped forthwith . 
Robin also gaped and stared in a wondering way , just as the Cobbler would have done in his place . 
Alack a daisy , me , quoth he . 
Honest fellow , sayst thou , clown ? quoth one of the men Why , I tell thee that this is that same rogue that men call Robin Hood . 
Is it so ? said Quince . 
Then , indeed , I am somebody else , and can be none other than Robin Hood . 
Take me , fellows but let me tell you that ye ha' laid hand upon the stoutest yeoman that ever trod the woodlands . 
Thou wilt play madman , wilt thou ? said the leader of the band . 
Here , Giles , fetch a cord and bind this knave's hands behind him . 
I warrant we will bring his wits back to him again when we get him safe before our good Bishop at Tutbury Town . 
Thereupon they tied the Cobbler's hands behind him , and led him off with a rope , as the farmer leads off the calf he hath brought from the fair . 
Then , turning his steps once more to the eastward , he stepped out right foot foremost toward Nottinghamshire and Sherwood Forest . 
But Robin Hood had gone through more than he wotted of . 
His journey from London had been hard and long , and in a se'ennight he had traveled sevenscore and more of miles . 
So , stripping off his clothes without more ado , he rolled into the bed and was asleep almost ere his head touched the pillow . 
Not long after Robin had so gone to his rest a great cloud peeped blackly over the hills to the westward . 
Higher and higher it arose until it piled up into the night like a mountain of darkness . 
All around beneath it came ever and anon a dull red flash , and presently a short grim mutter of the coming thunder was heard . 
After having eaten heartily they bade the landlord show them to their rooms , for they were aweary , having ridden all the way from Dronfield that day . 
In the meantime the storm broke . 
The womenfolks screamed , and the merry wags in the taproom put their arms around their waists to soothe them into quietness . 
So the night passed comfortably enough , but at the first dawn of day Robin opened his eyes and turned his head upon the pillow . 
Then how he gaped and how he stared , for there beside him lay one all shaven and shorn , so that he knew that it must be a fellow in holy orders . 
Now , quoth Robin to himself , I wonder how this thing hath dropped into my bed during the night . 
So saying , he arose softly , so as not to waken the other , and looking about the room he espied the friar's clothes lying upon a bench near the wall . 
First he looked at the clothes , with his head on one side , and then he looked at the friar and slowly winked one eye . 
Quoth he , Good Brother What e'er thy name may be , as thou hast borrowed my bed so freely I'll e'en borrow thy clothes in return . 
So saying , he straightway donned the holy man's garb , but kindly left the cobbler's clothes in the place of it . 
Yea , my son , quoth Robin albeit he knew nought of the mule and bring it forth quickly , I prythee , for I am late and must be jogging . 
So presently the stableman brought forth the mule , and Robin mounted it and went on his way rejoicing . 
In vain he swore he was a holy man , and showed his shaven crown off he must go , for nothing would do but that he was Robin Hood . 
Then Robin checked his mule quickly and leaped from off its back . 
But when Robin had done , Sir Richard shook his head sadly . 
I myself know this , having passed them but now . 
But presently Sir Richard spoke again , saying , One thing thou canst do , Robin , and one only . 
Go back to London and throw thyself upon the mercy of our good Queen Eleanor . 
Come with me straightway to my castle . 
Doff these clothes and put on such as my retainers wear . 
Thy only hope is to get to Sherwood , for there none can reach thee , and thou wilt never get to Sherwood but in this way . 
Queen Eleanor walked in her royal garden , amid the roses that bloomed sweetly , and with her walked six of her ladies in waiting , chattering blithely together . 
Of a sudden a man leaped up to the top of the wall from the other side , and then , hanging for a moment , dropped lightly upon the grass within . 
Moreover , I know Your Majesty's kindness and gentleness of heart , and so I lay my life freely in your gracious hands . 
I know right well that thou must have been hard pressed by peril to leap so boldly into one danger to escape another . 
Once more I promise thee mine aid , and will do all I can to send thee back in safety to Sherwood Forest . 
Bide thou here till I return . 
So saying , she left Robin in the garden of roses , and was gone a long time . 
When she came back Sir Robert Lee was with her , and the Queen's cheeks were hot and the Queen's eyes were bright , as though she had been talking with high words . 
Then Sir Robert came straight forward to where Robin Hood stood , and he spoke to the yeoman in a cold , stern voice . 
Quoth he , Our gracious Sovereign the King hath mitigated his wrath toward thee , fellow , and hath once more promised that thou shalt depart in peace and safety . 
Not only hath he promised this , but in three days he will send one of his pages to go with thee and see that none arrest thy journey back again . 
Let this peril that thou hast passed through teach thee two lessons . 
First , be more honest . 
Second , be not so bold in thy comings and goings . 
A man that walketh in the darkness as thou dost may escape for a time , but in the end he will surely fall into the pit . 
Thou hast put thy head in the angry lion's mouth , and yet thou hast escaped by a miracle . 
So saying , he turned and left Robin and was gone . 
, he took good care not to travel so far from Sherwood that he could not reach it both easily and quickly . 
The dawning of a summer's day was fresh and bright , and the birds sang sweetly in a great tumult of sound . 
So loud was their singing that it awakened Robin Hood where he lay sleeping , so that he stirred , and turned , and arose . 
Up rose Little John also , and all the merry men then , after they had broken their fast , they set forth hither and thither upon the doings of the day . 
Robin Hood and Little John walked down a forest path where all around the leaves danced and twinkled as the breeze trembled through them and the sunlight came flickering down . 
Quoth Robin Hood , I make my vow , Little John , my blood tickles my veins as it flows through them this gay morn . 
What sayst thou to our seeking adventures , each one upon his own account ? With all my heart , said Little John . 
We have had more than one pleasant doing in that way , good master . 
I like thy plan , quoth Robin , therefore we will part here . 
But look thee , Little John , keep thyself out of mischief , for I would not have ill befall thee for all the world . 
Marry , come up , quoth Little John , how thou talkest ! Methinks thou art wont to get thyself into tighter coils than I am like to do . 
At this Robin Hood laughed . 
So saying , he clapped his palm to Little John's and each departed upon his way , the trees quickly shutting the one from the other's sight . 
Robin Hood strolled onward till he came to where a broad woodland road stretched before him . 
Robin Hood saw that the stranger had not caught sight of him , so he stopped and stood quite still , looking at the other a long time before he came forward . 
And the stranger , I wot , was well worth looking at , for never had Robin seen a figure like that sitting beneath the tree . 
From his head to his feet he was clad in a horse's hide , dressed with the hair upon it . 
Upon his head was a cowl that hid his face from sight , and which was made of the horse's skin , the ears whereof stuck up like those of a rabbit . 
His body was clad in a jacket made of the hide , and his legs were covered with the hairy skin likewise . 
By his side was a heavy broadsword and a sharp , double edged dagger . 
A quiver of smooth round arrows hung across his shoulders , and his stout bow of yew leaned against the tree beside him . 
Who art thou , rascal ? said he at last , in a loud , harsh voice . 
Tut , tut , quoth merry Robin , speak not so sourly , brother . 
Nay , but I do like thy words , thou sweet , pretty thing , quoth Robin , squatting down upon the grass in front of the other . 
Moreover , I tell thee thy speech is witty and gamesome as any I ever heard in all my life . 
Robin returned the gaze with one of wide eyed innocence , not a shadow of a smile twinkling in his eyes or twitching at the corners of his mouth . 
So they sat staring at one another for a long time , until the stranger broke the silence suddenly . 
What is thy name , fellow ? said he . 
Now , quoth Robin , I am right glad to hear thee speak , for I began to fear the sight of me had stricken thee dumb . 
Prythee , tell me , sweet chuck , why wearest thou that dainty garb upon thy pretty body ? At these words the other broke into a short , harsh roar of laughter . 
By the bones of the Daemon Odin , said he , thou art the boldest spoken man that ever I have seen in all my life . 
I wear this garb , thou fool , to keep my body warm likewise it is near as good as a coat of steel against a common sword thrust . 
As for my name , I care not who knoweth it . 
It is Guy of Gisbourne , and thou mayst have heard it before . 
I come from the woodlands over in Herefordshire , upon the lands of the Bishop of that ilk . 
I am an outlaw , and get my living by hook and by crook in a manner it boots not now to tell of . 
As for the slaying of this fellow , it galleth me not a whit , for I would shed the blood of my own brother for the half of two hundred pounds . 
To all this Robin listened , and as he listened his gorge rose . 
Well he knew of this Guy of Gisbourne , and of all the bloody and murderous deeds that he had done in Herefordshire , for his doings were famous throughout all the land . 
Yet , although he loathed the very presence of the man , he held his peace , for he had an end to serve . 
Truly , quoth he , I have heard of thy gentle doings . 
Methinks there is no one in all the world that Robin Hood would rather meet than thee . 
At this Guy of Gisbourne gave another harsh laugh . 
Why , quoth he , it is a merry thing to think of one stout outlaw like Robin Hood meeting another stout outlaw like Guy of Gisbourne . 
Only in this case it will be an ill happening for Robin Hood , for the day he meets Guy of Gisbourne he shall die . 
He may be the stoutest of men hereabouts , quoth Guy of Gisbourne , yet , I tell thee , fellow , this sty of yours is not the wide world . 
I lay my life upon it I am the better man of the two . 
He an outlaw , forsooth ! Why , I hear that he hath never let blood in all his life , saving when he first came to the forest . 
Some call him a great archer marry , I would not be afraid to stand against him all the days of the year with a bow in my hand . 
Why , truly , some folk do call him a great archer , said Robin Hood , but we of Nottinghamshire are famous hands with the longbow . 
Even I , though but a simple hand at the craft , would not fear to try a bout with thee . 
At these words Guy of Gisbourne looked upon Robin with wondering eyes , and then gave another roar of laughter till the woods rang . 
Now , quoth he , thou art a bold fellow to talk to me in this way . 
I like thy spirit in so speaking up to me , for few men have dared to do so . 
Put up a garland , lad , and I will try a bout with thee . 
Tut , tut , quoth Robin , only babes shoot at garlands hereabouts . 
I will put up a good Nottingham mark for thee . 
So saying , he arose , and going to a hazel thicket not far off , he cut a wand about twice the thickness of a man's thumb . 
From this he peeled the bark , and , sharpening the point , stuck it up in the ground in front of a great oak tree . 
Thence he measured off fourscore paces , which brought him beside the tree where the other sat . 
There , quoth he , is the kind of mark that Nottingham yeomen shoot at . 
Now let me see thee split that wand if thou art an archer . 
Then Guy of Gisbourne arose . 
Now out upon it ! cried he . 
The Devil himself could not hit such a mark as that . 
Mayhap he could and mayhap he could not , quoth merry Robin , but that we shall never know till thou hast shot thereat . 
Twice he shot , but neither time did he hit the wand , missing it the first time by a span and the second time by a good palm's breadth . 
I see now , quoth he , that the Devil himself could not hit that mark . 
Good fellow , if thou art no better with the broadsword than thou art with the bow and arrow , thou wilt never overcome Robin Hood . 
At these words Guy of Gisbourne glared savagely upon Robin . 
Robin Hood strung his bow and took his place with never a word , albeit his heartstrings quivered with anger and loathing . 
Twice he shot , the first time hitting within an inch of the wand , the second time splitting it fairly in the middle . 
Then , without giving the other a chance for speech , he flung his bow upon the ground . 
There , thou bloody villain ! cried he fiercely , let that show thee how little thou knowest of manly sports . 
So saying , he flashed forth his bright sword in the sunlight . 
For a time Guy of Gisbourne stared upon Robin as though bereft of wits but his wonder quickly passed to a wild rage . 
Art thou indeed Robin Hood ? cried he . 
Now I am glad to meet thee , thou poor wretch ! Shrive thyself , for thou wilt have no time for shriving when I am done with thee . 
So saying , he also drew his sword . 
Up and down they fought , till all the sweet green grass was crushed and ground beneath the trampling of their heels . 
Now , Holy Mary aid me ! muttered he , as the other leaped at him , with a grin of rage upon his face . 
And now despair fell upon Guy of Gisbourne's heart in a black cloud , and he looked around him wildly , like a wounded hawk . 
Seeing that his strength was going from him , Robin leaped forward , and , quick as a flash , struck a back handed blow beneath the sword arm . 
Round he spun upon his heel , and , flinging his hands aloft with a shrill , wild cry , fell prone upon his face upon the green sod . 
This is the first man I have slain since I shot the Kings forester in the hot days of my youth . 
So saying , Robin Hood stripped the hairy garments from off the dead man , and put them on himself , all bloody as they were . 
And now let us see what befell Little John while these things were happening . 
So he came to the highroad and to where a little thatched cottage stood back of a cluster of twisted crab trees , with flowers in front of it . 
Here he stopped of a sudden , for he thought that he heard the sound of someone in sorrow . 
He listened , and found that it came from the cottage so , turning his footsteps thither , he pushed open the wicket and entered the place . 
There he saw a gray haired dame sitting beside a cold hearthstone , rocking herself to and fro and weeping bitterly . 
To all this Little John listened , shaking his head sadly now and then . 
Alas , quoth he , when the good dame had finished her speech , this is indeed an ill case . 
Nevertheless , no time may be lost in sending for him at this hour , if we would save the lives of thy three sons . 
Then the old woman told him that she had in the house some of the clothes of her good husband , who had died only two years before . 
These she brought to Little John , who , doffing his garb of Lincoln green , put them on in its stead . 
A mile or more from Nottingham Town , and not far from the southern borders of Sherwood Forest , stood the cosy inn bearing the sign of the King's Head . 
Great hiss and fuss of cooking was going on in the kitchen , and great rapping and tapping of wine kegs and beer barrels was going on in the cellar . 
All around stood the horses of the band , with a great noise of stamping feet and a great switching of tails . 
To this inn came the King's rangers , driving the widow's three sons before them . 
The hands of the three youths were tied tightly behind their backs , and a cord from neck to neck fastened them all together . 
So they were marched to the room where the Sheriff sat at meat , and stood trembling before him as he scowled sternly upon them . 
Our fair county of Nottingham hath been too long a breeding place for such naughty knaves as ye are . 
I have put up with these things for many years , but now I will stamp them out once for all , and with you I will begin . 
So the three poor youths were marched outside , where they stood with bowed heads and despairing hearts , till after a while the Sheriff came forth . 
Then he called his men about him , and quoth he , These three villains shall be hanged straightway , but not here , lest they breed ill luck to this goodly inn . 
Then the three youths fell upon their knees and loudly besought mercy of the Sheriff but the Sheriff of Nottingham laughed scornfully . 
In the meantime , while all this had been going forward , an old man had drawn near and stood leaning on his staff , looking on . 
His hair and beard were all curly and white , and across his back was a bow of yew that looked much too strong for him to draw . 
As the Sheriff looked around ere he ordered his men to string the three youths up to the oak tree , his eyes fell upon this strange old man . 
Then his worship beckoned to him , saying , Come hither , father , I have a few words to say to thee . 
How , now , said he , methinks I have seen thee before . 
Giles Hobble , Giles Hobble , muttered the Sheriff to himself , turning over the names that he had in his mind to try to find one to fit to this . 
I remember not thy name , said he at last , but it matters not . 
What is it Your Worship would have me do ? Why , this , said the Sheriff . 
Here are three men that need hanging as badly as any e'er I saw . 
If thou wilt string them up I will pay thee twopence apiece for them . 
I like not that my men at arms should turn hangmen . 
But hasten , I prythee , for I would get back to mine inn betimes . 
Then he slyly cut the cord that bound the youth's hands who , upon his part , stood still as though he were yet bound . 
Then he went to the second fellow , and spoke to him in the same way , and also cut his bonds . 
Then Little John turned to the Sheriff . 
With all my heart , said the Sheriff , only , as I said before , make thou haste in thy doings . 
Little John put the tip of his bow to his instep , and strung the weapon so deftly that all wondered to see an old man so strong . 
Little John also flew toward the covert like a greyhound , while the Sheriff and his men gazed after him all bewildered with the sudden doing . 
But ere the yeoman had gone far the Sheriff roused himself . 
After him ! he roared in a mighty voice for he knew now who it was with whom he had been talking , and wondered that he had not known him before . 
Stand back ! cried he fiercely . 
But when the Sheriff saw his enemy thus slipping betwixt his fingers he grew mad with his rage , so that his head swam and he knew not what he did . 
Then Little John raised his deadly bow and drew the gray goose feather to his cheek . 
Seeing what had happened , the Sheriff's men raised a shout , and , following their master , came rushing down upon Little John . 
But the Sheriff was ahead of the others , and so caught up with the yeoman before he reached the shelter of the woodlands , then leaning forward he struck a mighty blow . 
Little John ducked and the Sheriff's sword turned in his hand , but the flat of the blade struck the other upon the head and smote him down , stunned and senseless . 
Go , get some water from yonder fountain , William , and pour it over his head . 
The man did as he was bidden , and presently Little John opened his eyes and looked around him , all dazed and bewildered with the stun of the blow . 
So they took him back to the King's Head Inn , laughing and rejoicing as they went along . 
But in the meantime the widow's three sons had gotten safely away , and were hidden in the woodlands . 
Once more the Sheriff of Nottingham sat within the King's Head Inn . 
His heart rejoiced within him , for he had at last done that which he had sought to do for years , taken Little John prisoner . 
So saying , he took a deep draught of Canary . 
But it seemed as if the Sheriff had swallowed a thought with his wine , for he shook his head and put the cup down hastily . 
Belike I had better not wait until tomorrow to hang the fellow . 
So saying , he pushed his chair back hastily , and going forth from the inn called his men together . 
So get ye ready straightway . 
On they went , rattling and jingling along the road till they came to the tree . 
Here one of the men spake to the Sheriff of a sudden . 
Why , certes , quoth he , yon fellow is the same . 
How now ! cried the Sheriff , when Robin Hood , in Guy of Gisbourne's clothes , had come nigh to them . 
Marry , the blood upon me is that of the vilest outlaw that ever trod the woodlands , and one whom I have slain this day , albeit not without wound to myself . 
Then out spake Little John , for the first time since he had fallen into the Sheriff's hands . 
Now I die joyfully , nor do I care how I die , for life is nought to me ! So spake Little John , the salt tears rolling down his brown cheeks . 
But the Sheriff of Nottingham clapped his hands for joy . 
What I have told thee is sooth , and I lie not , said Robin , still in Guy of Gisbourne's voice . 
This is a good day ! cried he . 
As I have slain the master I would now kill the man . 
Give this fellow's life into my hands , Sir Sheriff . 
Now thou art a fool ! cried the Sheriff . 
Thou mightst have had money enough for a knight's ransom if thou hadst asked for it . 
I like ill to let this fellow pass from my hands , but as I have promised , thou shalt have him . 
I thank thee right heartily for thy gift , cried Robin . 
But the Sheriff called to them in a loud voice , ordering them to take the yeoman down from the horse and lean him against the tree , as the other bade . 
While they were doing this Robin Hood strung both his bow and that of Guy of Gisbourne , albeit none of them took notice of his doing so . 
Then , when Little John stood against the tree , he drew Guy of Gisbourne's sharp , double edged dagger . 
Fall back ! fall back ! cried he . 
Come ! cried Little John . 
Twice thou hast said thou knowest me , and yet thou knowest me not at all . 
Couldst thou not tell me beneath this wild beast's hide ? Yonder , just in front of thee , lie my bow and arrows , likewise my broadsword . 
Take them when I cut thy bonds . 
At the same time Robin Hood threw back the cowl of horse's hide from his face and bent Guy of Gisbourne's bow , with a keen , barbed arrow fitted to the string . 
Stand back ! cried he sternly . 
The first man that toucheth finger to bowstring dieth ! I have slain thy man , Sheriff take heed that it is not thy turn next . 
Then , seeing that Little John had armed himself , he clapped his bugle horn to his lips and blew three blasts both loud and shrill . 
Robin Hood ! roared he , and without another word he wheeled his horse in the road and went off in a cloud of dust . 
But though the Sheriff of Nottingham went fast , he could not outstrip a clothyard arrow . 
For a month afterward the poor Sheriff could sit upon nought but the softest cushions that could be gotten for him . 
Then they all went back into the forest once more , where they found the widow's three sons , who ran to Little John and kissed his hands . 
Take care whom thou pushest against ! cried a great , burly friar to one of these men . 
But of a sudden all this bickering ceased , for a clear sound of many bugle horns came winding down the street . 
Then all the people craned their necks and gazed in the direction whence the sound came , and the crowding and the pushing and the swaying grew greater than ever . 
And now a gallant array of men came gleaming into sight , and the cheering of the people ran down the crowd as the fire runs in dry grass . 
Eight and twenty heralds in velvet and cloth of gold came riding forward . 
Over their heads fluttered a cloud of snow white feathers , and each herald bore in his hand a long silver trumpet , which he blew musically . 
From each trumpet hung a heavy banner of velvet and cloth of gold , with the royal arms of England emblazoned thereon . 
After these came riding fivescore noble knights , two by two , all fully armed , saving that their heads were uncovered . 
In their hands they bore tall lances , from the tops of which fluttered pennons of many colors and devices . 
Behind these again came a great array of men at arms , with spears and halberds in their hands , and , in the midst of these , two riders side by side . 
One of the horsemen was the Sheriff of Nottingham in his robes of office . 
The other , who was a head taller than the Sheriff , was clad in a rich but simple garb , with a broad , heavy chain about his neck . 
His hair and beard were like threads of gold , and his eyes were as blue as the summer sky . 
As he rode along he bowed to the right hand and the left , and a mighty roar of voices followed him as he passed for this was King Richard . 
By my soul , Sheriff , said the King , laughing , ye have the tallest priests in Nottinghamshire that e'er I saw in all my life . 
I would that I had an army of such as he . 
Thus he spake , for he was ashamed that the King should know that Robin Hood feared him so little that he thus dared to come within the very gates of Nottingham Town . 
Eventide had come the great feast in the Guild Hall at Nottingham Town was done , and the wine passed freely . 
A thousand waxen lights gleamed along the board , at which sat lord and noble and knight and squire in goodly array . 
At the head of the table , upon a throne all hung with cloth of gold , sat King Richard with the Sheriff of Nottingham beside him . 
Canst thou not tell me somewhat of them , Sir Sheriff ? For I hear that thou hast had dealings with them more than once . 
At these words the Sheriff of Nottingham looked down gloomily , and the Bishop of Hereford , who was present , gnawed his nether lip . 
Quoth the Sheriff , I can tell Your Majesty but little concerning the doings of those naughty fellows , saving that they are the boldest lawbreakers in all the land . 
Then up spake young Sir Henry of the Lea , a great favorite with the King , under whom he had fought in Palestine . 
If Your Majesty would like I will tell you a certain adventure of this outlaw . 
When Sir Henry of the Lea was done , others of those present , seeing how the King enjoyed this merry tale , told other tales concerning Robin and his merry men . 
By the hilt of my sword , said stout King Richard , this is as bold and merry a knave as ever I heard tell of . 
Marry , I must take this matter in hand and do what thou couldst not do , Sheriff , to wit , clear the forest of him and his band . 
That night the King sat in the place that was set apart for his lodging while in Nottingham Town . 
With him were young Sir Henry of the Lea and two other knights and three barons of Nottinghamshire but the King's mind still dwelled upon Robin Hood . 
Now , quoth he , I would freely give a hundred pounds to meet this roguish fellow , Robin Hood , and to see somewhat of his doings in Sherwood Forest . 
Then up spake Sir Hubert of gingham , laughing If Your Majesty hath such a desire upon you it is not so hard to satisfy . 
If Your Majesty is willing to lose one hundred pounds , I will engage to cause you not only to meet this fellow , but to feast with him in Sherwood . 
Marry , Sir Hubert , quoth the King , this pleaseth me well . 
I like thy plan , Sir Hubert , quoth the King merrily , and tomorrow we will try it and see whether there be virtue in it . 
But when the Sheriff heard this he smote his forehead with his fist . 
But mayhap thou wilt go with us , Sir Sheriff . 
Then the King bade the Sheriff be silent as to their doings , and so they set forth upon their way . 
They traveled in the forest for several miles without meeting anyone such as they sought , until they had come to that part of the road that lay nearest to Newstead Abbey . 
By the holy Saint Martin , quoth the King , I would that I had a better head for remembering things of great need . 
Here have we come away and brought never so much as a drop of anything to drink with us . 
Now I would give half a hundred pounds for somewhat to quench my thirst withal . 
No sooner had the King so spoken , than out from the covert at the roadside stepped a tall fellow with yellow beard and hair and a pair of merry blue eyes . 
Truly , holy brother , said he , laying his hand upon the King's bridle rein , it were an unchristian thing to not give fitting answer to so fair a bargain . 
So saying , he put his fingers to his lips and blew a shrill whistle . 
Then straightway the bushes and branches on either side of the road swayed and crackled , and threescore broad shouldered yeomen in Lincoln green burst out of the covert . 
As for my name , it is Robin Hood , and thou mayst have heard it before . 
Now out upon thee ! quoth King Richard . 
Thou art a bold and naughty fellow and a lawless one withal , as I have often heard tell . 
Now , prythee , let me , and these brethren of mine , travel forward in peace and quietness . 
It may not be , said Robin , for it would look but ill of us to let such holy men travel onward with empty stomachs . 
But I doubt not that thou hast a fat purse to pay thy score at our inn since thou offerest freely so much for a poor draught of wine . 
Show me thy purse , reverend brother , or I may perchance have to strip thy robes from thee to search for it myself . 
Nay , use no force , said the King sternly . 
Here is my purse , but lay not thy lawless hands upon our person . 
Will Scarlet took the purse and counted out the money . 
Then Robin bade him keep fifty pounds for themselves , and put fifty back into the purse . 
This he handed to the King . 
But wilt thou not put back thy cowl ? For I would fain see thy face . 
, Then keep them covered in peace , said Robin , and far be it from me to make you break your vows . 
Methinks King Richard himself would be glad of such a bodyguard . 
These are not all of my fellows , said Robin proudly , for threescore more of them are away on business with my good right hand man , Little John . 
But , as for King Richard , I tell thee , brother , there is not a man of us all but would pour out our blood like water for him . 
Ye churchmen cannot rightly understand our King but we yeomen love him right loyally for the sake of his brave doings which are so like our own . 
But now Friar Tuck came bustling up . 
Gi' ye good den , brothers , said he . 
I am right glad to welcome some of my cloth in this naughty place . 
Truly , methinks these rogues of outlaws would stand but an ill chance were it not for the prayers of Holy Tuck , who laboreth so hard for their well being . 
Here he winked one eye slyly and stuck his tongue into his cheek . 
Who art thou , mad priest ? said the King in a serious voice , albeit he smiled beneath his cowl . 
At this Friar Tuck looked all around with a slow gaze . 
Look you now , quoth he , never let me hear you say again that I am no patient man . 
Here is a knave of a friar calleth me a mad priest , and yet I smite him not . 
My name is Friar Tuck , fellow the holy Friar Tuck . 
There , Tuck , said Robin , thou hast said enow . 
Prythee , cease thy talk and bring some wine . 
These reverend men are athirst , and sin' they have paid so richly for their score they must e'en have the best . 
Then Robin held his cup aloft . 
Tarry in your drinking till I give you a pledge . 
Here is to good King Richard of great renown , and may all enemies to him be confounded . 
Then all drank the King's health , even the King himself . 
Methinks , good fellow , said he , thou hast drunk to thine own confusion . 
Never a whit , quoth merry Robin , for I tell thee that we of Sherwood are more loyal to our lord the King than those of thine order . 
We would give up our lives for his benefiting , while ye are content to lie snug in your abbeys and priories let reign who will . 
At this the King laughed . 
Quoth he , Perhaps King Richard's welfare is more to me than thou wottest of , fellow . 
But enough of that matter . 
As Gaffer Swanthold sayeth , 'Tis a hard heart that will not give a caged starling of the best' and caged starlings ye are with us . 
Ho , lads ! Set up a garland at the end of the glade . 
Then , as the yeomen ran to do their master's bidding , Tuck turned to one of the mock friars . 
Hearest thou our master ? quoth he , with a sly wink . 
Thus spake Friar Tuck , but in a low voice so that Robin could not hear him , for he felt somewhat nettled at Robin's cutting his talk so short . 
In the meantime the mark at which they were to shoot was set up at sixscore paces distance . 
It was a garland of leaves and flowers two spans in width , which same was hung upon a stake in front of a broad tree trunk . 
There , quoth Robin , yon is a fair mark , lads . 
Each of you shoot three arrows thereat and if any fellow misseth by so much as one arrow , he shall have a buffet of Will Scarlet's fist . 
Hearken to him ! quoth Friar Tuck . 
Why , master , thou dost bestow buffets from thy strapping nephew as though they were love taps from some bouncing lass . 
I warrant thou art safe to hit the garland thyself , or thou wouldst not be so free of his cuffing . 
First David of Doncaster shot , and lodged all three of his arrows within the garland . 
Well done , David ! cried Robin , thou hast saved thine ears from a warming this day . 
Next Midge , the Miller , shot , and he , also , lodged his arrows in the garland . 
Then followed Wat , the Tinker , but alas for him ! For one of his shafts missed the mark by the breadth of two fingers . 
Come hither , fellow , said Will Scarlet , in his soft , gentle voice , I owe thee somewhat that I would pay forthwith . 
Will Scarlet rolled up his sleeve , and , standing on tiptoe to give the greater swing to his arm , he struck with might and main . 
As for King Richard , he laughed till the tears ran down his cheeks . 
Thus the band shot , each in turn , some getting off scot free , and some winning a buffet that always sent them to the grass . 
And now , last of all , Robin took his place , and all was hushed as he shot . 
The first shaft he shot split a piece from the stake on which the garland was hung the second lodged within an inch of the other . 
Now , out upon it ! cried he . 
That shaft had an ill feather to it , for I felt it as it left my fingers . 
Give me a clean arrow , and I will engage to split the wand with it . 
At these words the yeomen laughed louder than ever . 
Nay , good uncle , said Will Scarlet in his soft , sweet voice , thou hast had thy fair chance and hast missed thine aim out and out . 
I swear the arrow was as good as any that hath been loosed this day . 
Come hither I owe thee somewhat , and would fain pay it . 
Go , good master , roared Friar Tuck , and may my blessing go with thee . 
Thou hast bestowed these love taps of Will Scarlet's with great freedom . 
It were pity an thou gottest not thine own share . 
It may not be , said merry Robin . 
I am king here , and no subject may raise hand against the king . 
I owe thee somewhat for having lifted a heavy weight of fifty pounds from my purse . 
So make room for him on the green , lads . 
So be it , said the King , I am willing to venture it . 
Thereupon he rolled up his sleeve and showed an arm that made the yeomen stare . 
But Robin , with his feet wide apart , stood firmly planted , waiting the other , smiling . 
Then the King swung back his arm , and , balancing himself a moment , he delivered a buffet at Robin that fell like a thunderbolt . 
Down went Robin headlong upon the grass , for the stroke would have felled a stone wall . 
Then how the yeomen shouted with laughter till their sides ached , for never had they seen such a buffet given in all their lives . 
As for Robin , he presently sat up and looked all around him , as though he had dropped from a cloud and had lit in a place he had never seen before . 
After a while , still gazing about him at his laughing yeomen , he put his fingertips softly to his ear and felt all around it tenderly . 
Will Scarlet , said he , count this fellow out his fifty pounds I want nothing more either of his money or of him . 
A murrain seize him and his buffeting ! I would that I had taken my dues from thee , for I verily believe he hath deafened mine ear from ever hearing again . 
Then , while gusts of laughter still broke from the band , Will Scarlet counted out the fifty pounds , and the King dropped it back into his purse again . 
I know not how he cometh , for it was but a rumor of this that reached me nevertheless , I know that it is the truth . 
Therefore hasten with all thy men , and come to Castle Lea , for there thou mayst lie hidden till thy present danger passeth . 
I know not their names , but I have become right well acquaint with this lusty rogue's palm this morning . 
Then of a sudden Sir Richard's cheeks grew pale , for he knew who it was that he looked upon . 
Quickly he leaped from off his horse's back and flung himself upon his knees before the other . 
Down they fell upon their knees , nor could they say a word . 
Then the King looked all around right grimly , and , last of all , his glance came back and rested again upon Sir Richard of the Lea . 
How is this , Sir Richard ? said he sternly . 
Far be it from me , said he , to do aught that could bring Your Majesty's anger upon me . 
King Richard looked from one to the other of the kneeling knights , and at last the frown faded from his brow and a smile twitched at the corners of his lips . 
Marry , Sir Richard , quoth the King , thou art a bold spoken knight , and thy freedom of speech weigheth not heavily against thee with me . 
Then all arose and the King beckoned Robin Hood to come to him . 
As for the blow that Your Majesty struck me , I would say that though my sins are haply many , methinks they have been paid up in full thereby . 
Thinkest thou so ? said the King with somewhat of sternness in his voice . 
Talk not lightly of thy sins , good Robin . 
But come , look up . 
Thy danger is past , for hereby I give thee and all thy band free pardon . 
We will take that bold knave Little John also , and likewise thy cousin , Will Scarlet , and thy minstrel , Allan a Dale . 
But now get a feast ready I would see how ye live in the woodlands . 
So Robin bade his men make ready a grand feast . 
Straightway great fires were kindled and burned brightly , at which savory things roasted sweetly . 
While this was going forward , the King bade Robin call Allan a Dale , for he would hear him sing . 
So word was passed for Allan , and presently he came , bringing his harp . 
Marry , said King Richard , if thy singing match thy looks it is fair enough . 
Prythee , strike up a ditty and let us have a taste of thy skill . 
All listened in silence and when Allan a Dale had done King Richard heaved a sigh . 
By the breath of my body , Allan , quoth he , thou hast such a wondrous sweet voice that it strangely moves my heart . 
But what doleful ditty is this for the lips of a stout yeoman ? I would rather hear thee sing a song of love and battle than a sad thing like that . 
You may guess what a stir there was in the good town when all these famous outlaws came marching into the streets . 
Then each mounted his horse and rode away in the train of the King . 
Epilogue THUS END the Merry Adventures of Robin Hood for , in spite of his promise , it was many a year ere he saw Sherwood again . 
Will Scarlet after a time came back to his own home , whence he had been driven by his unlucky killing of his father's steward . 
The rest of the band did their duty as royal rangers right well . 
As for Allan a Dale and his wife , the fair Ellen , they followed Robin Hood and shared in all his ups and downs of life . 
With him came Allan a Dale and his wife , the fair Ellen , for these two had been chief of Robin's household ever since he had left Sherwood Forest . 
It was in the springtime when they landed once more on the shores of England . 
So he went straightway to King John and besought leave of him to visit Nottingham for a short season . 
The King gave him leave to come and to go , but bade him not stay longer than three days at Sherwood . 
So Robin Hood and Allan a Dale set forth without delay to Nottinghamshire and Sherwood Forest . 
The next day at an early hour they mounted their horses and set forth for the woodlands . 
As they passed along the road it seemed to Robin that he knew every stick and stone that his eyes looked upon . 
Thus they rode slowly onward , talking about these old , familiar things old and yet new , for they found more in them than they had ever thought of before . 
Thus at last they came to the open glade , and the broad , wide spreading greenwood tree which was their home for so many years . 
Neither of the two spoke when they stood beneath that tree . 
that he could not keep back the water from his eyes . 
That morning he had slung his good old bugle horn over his shoulder , and now , with the yearning , came a great longing to sound his bugle once more . 
He raised it to his lips he blew a blast . 
As leaps the stag when it feels the arrow at its heart , so leaped Little John when that distant sound met his ear . 
All the blood in his body seemed to rush like a flame into his cheeks as he bent his head and listened . 
Again came the bugle note , thin and clear , and yet again it sounded . 
Then Little John gave a great , wild cry of yearning , of joy , and yet of grief , and , putting down his head , he dashed into the thicket . 
Onward he plunged , crackling and rending , as the wild boar rushes through the underbrush . 
While they thus stood , seven royal rangers rushed into the open glade and raised a great shout of joy at the sight of Robin and at their head was Will Stutely . 
All these ran to Robin and kissed his hands and his clothing , with great sound of weeping . 
After a while Robin looked around him with tear dimmed eyes and said , in a husky voice , Now , I swear that never again will I leave these dear woodlands . 
I have been away from them and from you too long . 
Now do I lay by the name of Robert , Earl of Huntingdon , and take upon me once again that nobler title , Robin Hood , the Yeoman . 
At this a great shout went up , and all the yeomen shook one another's hands for joy . 
Now there was present at court a certain knight , Sir William Dale , as gallant a soldier as ever donned harness . 
Likewise the King gave Sir William his signet ring to show to the Sheriff , that he might raise all his armed men to aid the others in their chase of Robin . 
So Sir William and the Sheriff set forth to do the King's bidding and to search for Robin Hood and for seven days they hunted up and down , yet found him not . 
But scores of good fellows were left behind him , stretched out all stiff beneath the sweet green boughs . 
But though Robin Hood had beaten off his enemies in fair fight , all this lay heavily upon his mind , so that he brooded over it until a fever seized upon him . 
For three days it held him , and though he strove to fight it off , he was forced to yield at last . 
Then he bade Little John make ready to go also , for he might perchance need aid in his journeying . 
So Little John and he took their leave of the others , and Robin Hood bade Will Stutely be the captain of the band until they should come back . 
Thus they came by easy stages and slow journeying until they reached the Nunnery of Kirklees . 
Now Robin had done much to aid this cousin of his for it was through King Richard's love of him that she had been made prioress of the place . 
Nevertheless , she kept this well to herself and received Robin with seeming kindness . 
She led him up the winding stone stair to a room which was just beneath the eaves of a high , round tower but she would not let Little John come with him . 
So the poor yeoman turned his feet away from the door of the nunnery , and left his master in the hands of the women . 
Of this Robin knew not for , though he saw the blood flow , it did not come fast enough to make him think that there was anything ill in it . 
Having done this vile deed , the Prioress turned and left her cousin , locking the door behind her . 
All that livelong day the blood ran from Robin Hood's arm , nor could he check it , though he strove in every way to do so . 
Again and again he called for help , but no help came , for his cousin had betrayed him , and Little John was too far away to hear his voice . 
So he bled and bled until he felt his strength slipping away from him . 
Then he arose , tottering , and bearing himself up by the palms of his hands against the wall , he reached his bugle horn at last . 
Then Little John's heart was mad with grief and fear for his master's life . 
Wildly he looked about him , and his sight fell upon a heavy stone mortar , such as three men could not lift nowadays . 
Little John took three steps forward , and , bending his back , heaved the stone mortar up from where it stood deeply rooted . 
Staggering under its weight , he came forward and hurled it crashing against the door . 
In burst the door , and away fled the frightened nuns , shrieking , at his coming . 
Then Little John strode in , and never a word said he , but up the winding stone steps he ran till he reached the room wherein his master was . 
Here he found the door locked also , but , putting his shoulder against it , he burst the locks as though they were made of brittle ice . 
There he saw his own dear master leaning against the gray stone wall , his face all white and drawn , and his head swaying to and fro with weakness . 
Then , with a great , wild cry of love and grief and pity , Little John leaped forward and caught Robin Hood in his arms . 
Up he lifted him as a mother lifts her child , and carrying him to the bed , laid him tenderly thereon . 
All the while Little John stood grimly by , and after she had done he sternly bade her to begone , and she obeyed , pale and trembling . 
Why , quoth he , give thee a se'ennight and thou wilt be roaming the woodlands as boldly as ever . 
But Robin shook his head and smiled faintly where he lay . 
Mine own dear Little John , whispered he , Heaven bless thy kind , rough heart . 
But , dear friend , we will never roam the woodlands together again . 
Ay , but we will ! quoth Little John loudly . 
Thus he talked till , at last , the other promised , in a choking voice , that no ill should fall upon the place , no matter what happened . 
Meantime the sun dropped slowly to the west , till all the sky was ablaze with a red glory . 
Then , presently , Robin Hood bade him string his stout bow for him , and choose a smooth fair arrow from his quiver . 
This Little John did , though without disturbing his master or rising from where he sat . 
Lay me with my face toward the East , Little John , and see that my resting place be kept green , and that my weary bones be not disturbed . 
As he finished speaking , he raised himself of a sudden and sat upright . 
His old strength seemed to come back to him , and , drawing the bowstring to his ear , he sped the arrow out of the open casement . 
Upon the steep stairway he met the Prioress and some of the chief among the sisters . 
Bear my words well in mind , for I mean them . 
They saw no one , for the sisters were all hidden away from sight , having been frightened by Little John's words . 
Up the stone stair they ran , and a great sound of weeping was presently heard . 
After a while this ceased , and then came the scuffling and shuffling of men's feet as they carried a heavy weight down the steep and winding stairs . 
A certain one sayeth that upon a stone at Kirklees is an old inscription . 
End of Project Gutenberg's Etext of The Merry Adventures of Robin Hood The inscription on the last page needs to be spell checked . 
