Prepared by Anthony J. Adam email anthony adam tamu . 
edu My Garden Acquaintance James Russell Lowell ONE of the most delightful books in my father's library was White's Natural History of Selborne . 
For me it has rather gained in charm with years . 
Open the book where you will , it takes you out of doors . 
In our broiling July weather one can walk out with this genially garrulous Fellow of Oriel and find refreshment instead of fatigue . 
In simplicity of taste and natural refinement he reminds one of Walton in tenderness toward what he would have called the brute creation , of Cowper . 
I do not know whether his descriptions of scenery are good or not , but they have made me familiar with his neighborhood . 
The book has also the delightfulness of absolute leisure . 
His volumes are the journal of Adam in Paradise , Annihilating all that's made To a green thought in a green shade . 
It is positive rest only to look into that garden of his . 
No rumor of the revolt of the American Colonies seems to have reached him . 
The natural term of an hog's life has more interest for him than that of an empire . 
but the arrival of the house martin a day earlier or later than last year is a piece of news worth sending express to all his correspondents . 
La Grande Chartreuse was the original Carthusian monastery in France , where the most austere privacy was maintained . 
Another secret charm of this book is its inadvertent humor , so much the more delicious because unsuspected by the author . 
He brags of no fine society , but is plainly a little elated by having considerable acquaintance with a tame brown owl . 
Most of us have known our share of owls , but few can boast of intimacy with a feathered one . 
The great events of Mr. White's life , too , have that disproportionate importance which is always humorous . 
In he makes the acquaintance in Sussex of an old family tortoise , which had then been domesticated for thirty years . 
It is clear that he fell in love with it at first sight . 
We have no means of tracing the growth of his passion but in we find him eloping with its object in a post chaise . 
The rattle and hurry of the journey so perfectly roused it that , when I turned it out in a border , it walked twice down to the bottom of my garden . 
It reads like a Court Journal Yesterday morning H. R. H. the Princess Alice took an airing of half an hour on the terrace of Windsor Castle . 
This tortoise might have been a member of the Royal Society , if he could have condescended to so ignoble an ambition . 
It had but just been discovered that a surface inclined at a certain angle with the plane of the horizon took more of the sun's rays . 
, and used accordingly to tilt himself up against the garden wall in the autumn . 
There are moods in which this kind of history is infinitely refreshing . 
These creatures whom we affect to look down upon as the drudges of instinct are members of a commonwealth whose constitution rests on immovable bases . 
It is good for us now and then to converse with a world like Mr. White's , where Man is the least important of animals . 
But one who , like me , has always lived in the country and always on the same spot , is drawn to his book by other occult sympathies . 
He likes to be hotter and colder , to have been more deeply snowed up , to have more trees and larger blow down than his neighbors . 
With us descendants of the Puritans especially , these weather competitions supply the abnegated excitement of the race course . 
Men learn to value thermometers of the true imaginative termperament , capable of prodigious elations and corresponding dejections . 
I marked o in the shade , my high water mark , higher by one degree than I had ever seen it before . 
I happened to meet a neighbor as we mopped our brows at each other , he told me that he had just cleared o , and I went home a beaten man . 
I had not felt the heat before , save as a beautiful exaggeration of sunshine but now it oppressed me with the prosaic vulgarity of an oven . 
What had been poetic intensity became all at once rhetorical hyperbole . 
but it was a poor consolation . 
The fact remained that his herald Mercury , standing a tiptoe , could look down on mine . 
I seem to glimpse something of this familiar weakness in Mr. White . 
He , too , has shared in these mercurial triumphs and defeats . 
Did the wind back round , or go about with the sun ? is a rational question that bears not remotely on the making of hay and the prosperity of crops . 
At first sight , nothing seems more drolly trivial than the lives of those whose single achievement is to record the wind and the temperature three times a day . 
I thought it not impossible that a few simple stories of my winged acquaintances might be found entertaining by persons of kindred taste . 
I have noted but two days' difference in the coming of the song sparrow between a very early and a very backward spring . 
This very year I saw the linnets at work thatching , just before a snow storm which covered the ground several inches deep for a number of days . 
They struck work and left us for a while , no doubt in search of food . 
Birds frequently perish from sudden changes in our whimsical spring weather of which they had no foreboding . 
but their going is another matter . 
The chimney swallows leave us early , for example , apparently so soon as their latest fledglings are firm enough of wing to attempt the long rowing match that is before them . 
What may be called local migrations are doubtless dictated by the chances of food . 
I have never been quite able to fathom the local , or rather geographical partialities of birds . 
have the king birds , handsomest of flycatchers , built in my orchard though I always know where to find them within half a mile . 
, yet I never saw one here till last July , when I found a female busy among my raspberries and surprisingly bold . 
I hope she was prospecting with a view to settlement in our garden . 
She seemed , on the whole , to think well of my fruit , and I would gladly plant another bed if it would help to win over so delightful a neighbor . 
Chaucer's Canterbury Tales , Prologue , line . 
The return of the robin is commonly announced by the newspapers , like that of eminent or notorious people to a watering place , as the first authentic notification of spring . 
And such his appearance in the orchard and garden undoubtedly is . 
like Emerson's Titmouse , and as cheerful as he . 
The robin has a bad reputation among people who do not value themselves less for being fond of cherries . 
There is , I admit , a spice of vulgarity in him , and his song is rather of the Bloomfield sort , too largely ballasted with prose . 
His ethics are of the Poor Richard school , and the main chance which calls forth all his energy is altogether of the belly . 
He never has these fine intervals of lunacy into which his cousins , the catbird and the mavis , are apt to fall . 
But for a' that and twice as muckle 's a' that , I would not exchange him for all the cherries that ever came out of Asia Minor . 
With whatever faults , he has not wholly forfeited that superiority which belongs to the children of nature . 
He has a finer taste in fruit than could be distilled from many successive committees of the Horticultural Society , and he eats with a relishing gulp not inferior to Dr . 
He feels and freely exercises his right of eminent domain . 
His is the earliest mess of green peas his all the mulberries I had fancied mine . 
he keeps a strict eye over one's fruit , and knows to a shade of purple when your grapes have cooked long enough in the sun . 
During the severe drought a few years ago the robins wholly vanished from my garden . 
I neither saw nor heard one for three weeks . 
But the robins , too , had somehow kept note of them . 
They must have sent out spies , as did the Jews into the promised land , before I was stirring . 
They had fairly sacked the vine . 
Not Wellington's veterans made cleaner work of a Spanish town not Federals or Confederates were ever more impartial in the confiscation of neutral chickens . 
I was keeping my grapes a secret to surprise the fair Fidele with , but the robins made them a profounder secret to her than I had meant . 
The tattered remnant of a single bunch was all my harvest home . 
There was a native grape vine close by , blue with its less refined abundance , but my cunning thieves preferred the foreign flavor . 
For well the soul , if stout within , Can arm impregnably the skin . 
The Titmouse , lines , . 
The robins are not good solo singers , but their chorus , as , like primitive fire worshippers , they hail the return of light and warmth to the world , is unrivalled . 
There are a hundred singing like one . 
They are noisy enough then , and sing , as poets should , with no afterthought . 
Do I look like a bird that knows the flavor of raw vermin ? I throw myself upon a jury of my peers . 
Ask any robin if he ever ate anything less ascetic than the frugal berry of the juniper , and he will answer that his vow forbids him . 
Can such an open bosom cover such depravity ? Alas , yes ! I have no doubt his breast was redder at that very moment with the blood of my raspberries . 
On the whole , he is a doubtful friend in the garden . 
He makes his dessert of all kinds of berries , and is not averse from early pears . 
For my own part , I would rather have his cheerfulness and kind neighborhood than many berries . 
J. R. L. For his cousin , the catbird , I have a still warmer regard . 
Always a good singer , he sometimes nearly equals the brown thrush , and has the merit of keeping up his music later in the evening than any bird of my familiar acquaintance . 
Though there is the most trustworthy witness to the imitative propensity of this bird , I have only once , during an intimacy of more than forty years , heard him indulge it . 
The catbird is as shy as the robin is vulgarly familiar . 
Only when his nest or his fledglings are approached does he become noisy and almost aggressive . 
In such cases he shows none of that conscious guilt which makes the robin contemptible . 
On the contrary , he will maintain his post in the thicket , and sharply scold the intruder who ventures to steal his berries . 
After all , his claim is only for tithes , while the robin will bag your entire crop if he get a chance . 
Watts's statement that birds in their little nests agree , like too many others intended to form the infant mind , is very far from being true . 
On the contrary , the most peaceful relation of the different species to each other is that of armed neutrality . 
they are very jealous of neighbors . 
A few years ago I was much interested in the housebuilding of a pair of summer yellow birds . 
They had chosen a very pretty site near the top of a tall white lilac , within easy eye shot of a chamber window . 
They had brought their work nearly to an end , and had already begun to line it with fern down , the gathering of which demanded more distant journeys and longer absences . 
No sooner were the pretty mates fairly gone for a new load of lining , than To their unguarded nest these weasel Scots Came stealing . 
Silently they flew back and forth , each giving a vengeful dab at the nest in passing . 
They did not fall to and deliberately destroy it , for they might have been caught at their mischief . 
As it was , whenever the yellow birds came back , their enemies were hidden in their own sight proof bush . 
Several times their unconscious victims repaired damages , but at length , after counsel taken together , they gave it up . 
Perhaps , like other unlettered folk , they came to the conclusion that the Devil was in it , and yielded to the invisible persecution of witchcraft . 
Shakespeare King Henry V. , act i , scene . 
I once had the chance of doing a kindness to a household of them , which they received with very friendly condescension . 
I had had my eye for some time upon a nest , and was puzzled by a constant fluttering of what seemed full grown wings in it whenever I drew nigh . 
At last I climbed the tree , in spite of angry protests from the old birds against my intrusion . 
The mystery had a very simple solution . 
In building the nest , a long piece of packthread had been somewhat loosely woven in . 
Three of the young had contrived to entangle themselves in it , and had become full grown without being able to launch themselves upon the air . 
When I took out my knife to cut their hempen bonds , the heads of the family seemed to divine my friendly intent . 
Suddenly ceasing their cries and threats . 
they perched quietly within reach of my hand , and watched me in my work of manumission . 
Of late years the jays have visited us only at intervals and in winter their bright plumage , set off by the snow , and their cheerful cry , are especially welcome . 
They would have furnished Aesop with a fable , for the feathered crest in which they seem to take so much satisfaction is often their fatal snare . 
The crest slips easily into the trap , but refuses to be pulled out again , and he who came to feast remains a prey . 
as they gather at evening to debate in mass meeting their windy politics , or to gossip at their tent doors over the events of the day . 
Their port is grave , and their stalk across the turf as martial as that of a second rate ghost in Hamlet . 
They never meddled with my corn , so far as I could discover . 
The home of the Nortons , in Cambridge , who were at the time of this paper in Europe . 
For a few years I had crows , but their nests are an irresistible bait for boys , and their settlement was broken up . 
They grew so wonted as to throw off a great part of their shyness , and to tolerate my near approach . 
All birds during the pairing season become more or less sentimental , and murmur soft nothings in a tone very unlike the grinding organ repetition and loudness of their habitual song . 
standard has something the effect of a Mississippi boatman quoting Tennyson . 
Yet there are few things to my ear more melodious than his caw of a clear winter morning as it drops to you filtered through five hundred fathoms of crisp blue air . 
The hostility of all smaller birds makes the moral character of the row , for all his deaconlike demeanor and garb , somewhat questionable . 
He could never sally forth without insult . 
The golden robins , especially , would chase him as far as I could follow with my eye , making him duck clumsily to avoid their importunate bills . 
See Rousseau's La Nouvelle Heloise . 
Orioles are in great plenty with me . 
I have seen seven males flashing about the garden at once . 
A merry crew of them swing their hammocks from the pendulous boughs . 
built a second next in an elm within a few yards of the house . 
Last year , however , I had the fullest proof that Mr. Hale was mistaken . 
The nest was wholly woven and felted with ravellings of woollen carpet in which scarlet predominated . 
But , indeed , all my birds look upon me as if I were a mere tenant at will , and they were landlords . 
With shame I confess it , I have been bullied even by a hummingbird . 
And many a time he has driven me out of a flower bed . 
This summer , by the way , a pair of these winged emeralds fastened their mossy acorn cup upon a bough of the same elm which the orioles had enlivened the year before . 
So I had a pair of them domiciled in my grass field . 
He had the volubility of an Italian charlatan at a fair , and , like him , appeared to be proclaiming the merits of some quack remedy . 
Opodeldoc opodeldoc try Doctor Lincoln's opodeldoc ! he seemed to repeat over and over again , with a rapidity that would have distanced the deftest tongued Figaro that ever rattled . 
has found the typical America in Oneida and Salt Lake City . 
Of course , an intelligent European is the best judge of these matters . 
The truth is there are more singing birds in Europe because there are fewer forests . 
These songsters love the neighborhood of man because hawks and owls are rarer , while their own food is more abundant . 
Most people seem to think , the more trees , the more birds . 
So far as my own observation goes , the farther one penetrates the sombre solitudes of the woods , the more seldom does he hear the voice of any singing bird . 
At any rate , in a letter to Fontanes , written in , he speaks of mes chevaux paissant a quelque distance . 
In his book of travels , New America . 
The bobolinks build in considerable numbers in a meadow within a quarter of a mile of us . 
A houseless land passes through the midst of their camp , and in clear westerly weather , at the right season , one may hear a score of them singing at once . 
But his opera season is a short one . 
The ground and tree sparrows are our most constant performers . 
It is now late in August , and one of the latter sings every day and all day long in the garden . 
Till within a fortnight , a pair of indigo birds would keep up their lively duo for an hour together . 
While I write , I hear an oriole gay as in June , and the plaintive may be of the goldfinch tells me he is stealing my lettuce seeds . 
I know not what the experience of others may have been , but the only bird I have ever hard sing in the night has been the chip bird . 
I should say he sang about as often during the darkness as cocks crow . 
One can hardly help fancying that he sings in his dreams . 
On second thought , I remember to have heard the cuckoo strike the hours nearly all night with the regularity of a Swiss clock . 
He is a shy bird , but a few days ago I had the satisfaction of studying him through the blinds as he sat on a tree within a few feet of me . 
Seen so near and at rest , he makes good his claim to the title of pigeon woodpecker . 
Lumberers have a notion that he is harmful to timber , digging little holes through the bark to encourage the settlement of insects . 
The regular rings of such perforations which one may see in almost any apple orchard seem to give some probability to this theory . 
I have sometimes heard , and whom I once had the good luck to see close by me in the mulberry tree . 
The wild pigeon , once numerous , I have not seen for many years . 
Of savage birds , a hen hawk now and then quarters himself upon us for a few days , sitting sluggish in a tree after a surfeit of poultry . 
One of them once offered me a near shot from my study window one drizzly day for several hours . 
But it was Sunday , and I gave him the benefit of its gracious truce of God . 
They made their appearance again this summer . 
J. R. L. Certain birds have disappeared from our neighborhood within my memory . 
I remember when the whippoorwill could be heard in Sweet Auburn . 
The night hawk , once common , is now rare . 
The brown thrush has moved farther up country . 
For years I have not seen or heard any of the larger owls , whose hooting was once of my boyish terrors . 
The cliff swallow , strange emigrant , that eastward takes his way , has come and gone again in my time . 
The bank swallows , wellnigh innumerable during my boyhood , no longer frequent the crumbly cliff of the gravel pit by the river . 
The barn swallows , which once swarmed in our barn , flashing through the dusty sun streak of the mow , have been gone these many years . 
My father would lead me out to see them gather on the roof , and take counsel before their yearly migration , as Mr. White used to see them at Selborne . 
scarce higher than the tops of the chimneys . 
Sometimes I have known one to alight in one of our trees , though for what purpose I never could divine . 
Some birds have left us , I suppose , because the country is growing less wild . 
I once found a summer duck's nest within a quarter of a mile of our house , but such a trouvaille would be impossible now as Kidd's treasure . 
And yet the mere taming of the neighborhood does not quite satisfy me as an explanation . 
There was no growth of any kind to conceal them , and yet these ordinarily shy birds were almost as indifferent to my passing as common poultry would have been . 
Since bird nesting has become scientific , and dignified itself as oology , that , no doubt , is partly to blame for some of our losses . 
But some old friends are constant . 
Wilson's thrush comes every year to remind me of that most poetic or ornithologists . 
He flits before me through the pine walk like the very genius of solitude . 
did towards him after he had shot the albatross . 
He saddens with the season , and , as summer declines , he changes his note to cheu , pewee ! as if in lamentation . 
Had he been an Italian bird , Ovid would have had a plaintive tale to tell about him . 
He is so familiar as often to pursue a fly through the open window into my library . 
In Coleridge's poem of that name . 
There is something inexpressibly dear to me in these old friendships of a lifetime . 
I protect my game as jealously as an English squire . 
, it would have left me a sore place in my mind for weeks . 
they had grown accustomed to man and knew his savage ways . 
And they repay your kindness with a sweet familiarity too delicate ever to breed contempt . 
I have made a Penn treaty with them , preferring that to the Puritan way with the natives , which converted them to a little Hebraism and a great deal of Medford rum . 
, I bring them close with an opera glass , a much better weapon than a gun . 
I would not , if i could , convert them from their pretty pagan ways . 
The only one I sometimes have savage doubts about is the red squirrel . 
, and that he gnaws off the small end of pears to get at the seeds . 
He steals the corn from under the noses of my poultry . 
But what would you have ? He will come down upon the limb of the tree I am lying under till he is within a yard of me . 
He and his mate will scurry up and down the great black walnut for my diversion , chattering like monkeys . 
Can I sign his death warrant who has tolerated me about his grounds so long ? Not I. Let them steal , and welcome . 
I am sure I should , had I had the same bringing up and the same temptation . 
