This etext was prepared with the use of Calera WordScan Plus . 
Loring was a handsome fellow about thirty years old , who had travelled far and studied much . 
He had been very particular in regard to his invitations . 
At three o'clock on the appointed afternoon nearly all the people who had been invited to the Unicorn Theatre were in their seats . 
No one had stayed away except for some very good reason , for it was well known that if Herbert Loring offered to show anything it was worth seeing . 
About forty people were present , who sat talking to one another , or admiring the decoration of the theatre . 
As Loring stood upon the stage where he was entirely alone , his exhibition requiring no assistants he gazed through a loophole in the curtain upon a very interesting array of faces . 
The owners of those faces had come to see something , and they wished to see it . 
The audience was composed of well bred and courteous men and women , but despite their polite self restraint Loring could see that some of them were getting tired of waiting . 
So , very reluctantly , and feeling that further delay was impossible , he raised the curtain and came forward on the stage . 
Briefly he announced that the exhibition would open with some fireworks he had brought from Corea . 
So far as interest gave evidence of satisfaction , there was never a better satisfied audience . 
At first there had been some hushed murmurs of pleasure , but very soon the attention of every one seemed so completely engrossed by the dazzling display that they simply gazed in silence . 
For twenty minutes or longer the glittering show went on , and not a sign of weariness or inattention was made by any one of the assembled company . 
Anxiously , and a little pale , Herbert Loring peered through the loophole in the curtain . 
It was not easy to judge of the effects of his exhibition , and he did not know whether or not it had been a success . 
There was no applause , but , on the other hand , there was no signs that any one resented the exhibition as a childish display of colored lights . 
It was impossible to look upon that audience without believing that they had been thoroughly interested in what they had seen , and that they expected to see more . 
At this moment there entered the theatre , at the very back of the house , a young lady . 
This was Edith Starr , who , a month before , had been betrothed to Herbert Loring . 
Edith and her mother had been invited to this performance , and front seats had been reserved for them , for each guest had received a numbered card . 
Edith noticed upon his face the expression of uncertainty and anxiety which had not yet left it . 
The extraordinary , and I may say marvellous , thing which I am about to show you , he said , is known among East Indian magicians as the magic egg . 
They are indeed very few and simple , but never before , to the best of my knowledge and belief , have they been seen outside of India . 
You can see under and around it , and it gives no opportunity to conceal anything . 
Then , standing for a few moments as if he had something else to say , he turned and stepped toward one of the wings . 
Edith was troubled as she looked at her lover during these remarks . 
Her interest was great , greater , indeed , than that of the people about her , but it was not a pleasant interest . 
As Loring stopped speaking , and looked about him , there was a momentary flush on his face . 
She knew this was caused by excitement , and she was pale from the same cause . 
Very soon Loring came forward , and stood by the table . 
Here is the box , he said , of which I spoke , and as I hold it up I think you all can see it . 
It is not large , being certainly not more than twelve inches in length and two deep , but it contains some very wonderful things . 
I will now open the box and show you what is inside . 
The first thing I take out is this little stick , not thicker than a lead pencil , but somewhat longer , as you see . 
This is a magical wand , and is covered with inscriptions of the same character as those on the outside of the box . 
The next thing is this little red bag , well filled , as you see , which I shall put on the table , for I shall not yet need it . 
It may be a trifle larger than an ordinary egg , but then , after all , it is nothing but a common egg that is , in appearance . 
In reality it is a good deal more . 
Now I will begin the performance . 
He was evidently warming up with his subject . 
I now take up this wand , he said , which , while I hold it , gives me power to produce the phenomena which you are about to behold . 
Now with this wand I gently touch this egg which is lying on the square of cloth . 
I do not believe you can see what has happened to this egg , but I will tell you . 
There is a little line , like a hair , entirely around it . 
Now that line has become a crack . 
Now you can see it , I know . 
It grows wider and wider ! Look ! The shell of the egg is separating in the middle . 
The whole egg slightly moves . 
Do you notice that ? Now you can see something yellow showing itself between the two parts of the shell . 
See ! It is moving a good deal , and the two halves of the shell are separating more and more . 
And now out tumbles this queer little object . 
Now you can see that it is standing on its feet , feebly enough , but still standing . 
Behold , it takes a few steps ! You cannot doubt that it is alive , and came out of that egg . 
It is beginning to walk about over the cloth . 
Do you notice that it is picking the embroidery ? Now , little chick , I will give you something to eat . 
This little red bag contains grain , a magical grain , with which I shall feed the chicken . 
You must excuse my awkwardness in opening the bag , as I still hold the wand but this little stick I must not drop . 
See , little chick , there are some grains ! They look like rice , but , in fact , I have no idea what they are . 
But he knows , he knows ! Look at him ! See how he picks it up ! There ! He has swallowed one , two , three . 
That will do , little chick , for a first meal . 
Now , sir , try to avoid the edge of the table , and , to quiet you , I will give you a little tap on the back with my wand . 
Now , then , please observe closely . 
The down which just now covered him has almost gone . 
He is really a good deal bigger , and ever so much uglier . 
See the little pin feathers sticking out over him ! Some spots here and there are almost bare , but he is ever so much more active . 
Ha ! Listen to that ! He is so strong that you can hear his beak as he pecks at the table . 
Another tap , and a few more grains . 
Careful , sir ! Don't tear the cloth ! See how rapidly he grows ! He is fairly covered with feathers , red and black , with a tip of yellow in front . 
Some more grain , and another tap from my wand . 
See ! He does not mind the little stick , for he has been used to it from his very birth . 
Now , then , he is what you would call a good half grown chick . 
Rather more than half grown , I should say . 
Do you notice his tail ? There is no mistaking him for a pullet . 
The long feathers are beginning to curl over already . 
He must have a little more grain . 
Now see that comb on the top of his head you scarcely noticed it before , and now it is bright red . 
And see his spurs beginning to show on good thick legs , too . 
Some leaned forward with mouths wide open . 
Others stood up so that they could see better . 
Ejaculations of astonishment and wonder were heard on every side , and a more thoroughly fascinated and absorbed audience was never seen . 
Now , my friends , Loring continued , I will give this handsome fowl another tap . 
As I cannot give you more room , I will set you up higher . 
Move over a little , and I will set this chair on the table . 
There ! Upon the seat ! That's right , but don't stop . 
There is the back , which is higher yet ! Up with you ! Ha ! There , he nearly upset the chair , but I will hold it . 
See ! He has turned around . 
Now , then , look at him . 
See his wings as he flaps them ! He could fly with such wings . 
Look at him ! See that swelling breast ! Ha , ha ! Listen ! Did you ever hear a crow like that ? It fairly rings through the house . 
Yes , I knew it ! There is another ! At this point the people in the house were in a state of wild excitement . 
Nearly all of them were on their feet , and they were in such a condition of frantic enthusiasm that Loring was afraid some of them might make a run for the stage . 
Come , sir , cried Loring , now almost shouting , that will do . 
You have shown us the strength of your lungs . 
Jump down on the seat of the chair now on the table . 
There , I will take away the chair , and you can stand for a moment on the table and let our friends look at you but only for a moment . 
Take that tap on your back . 
Now do you see any difference ? Perhaps you may not , but I do . 
Yes , I believe you all do . 
He is not the big fellow he was a minute ago . 
He is really smaller only a fine cockerel . 
A nice tail that , but with none of the noble sweep that it had a minute ago . 
No , don't try to get off the table . 
You can't escape my wand . 
Behold a half grown chicken , good to eat , but with not a crow in him . 
Hungry , are you ? But you need not pick at the table that way . 
You get no more grain , but only this little tap . 
Ha , ha ! What are you coming to ? There is a chicken barely feathered enough for us to tell what color he is going to be . 
Another tap will take still more of the conceit out of him . 
Look at him ! There are his pin feathers , and his bare spots . 
Don't try to get away I can easily tap you again . 
Here is a lovely little chick , fluffy with yellow down . 
He is active enough , but I shall quiet him . 
Ah , little chick , I will take the two halves of the egg shell from which you came , and put them on each side of you . 
Come , now get in ! I close them up . 
You are lost to view . 
I will let you take one more look at this box before I put it away behind the scenes . 
Thank you ! he cried , bowing low , and waving his arms before him in the manner of an Eastern magician making a salaam . 
For some moments the audience remained in their seats as if they were expecting something more , and then they rose quietly and began to disperse . 
Most of them were acquainted with one another , and there was a good deal of greeting and talking as they went out of the theatre . 
When Loring was sure the last person had departed , he turned down the lights , locked the door , and gave the key to the steward of the club . 
He walked to his home a happy man . 
His exhibition had been a perfect success , with not a break or a flaw in it from beginning to end . 
That evening , as was his daily custom , Herbert Loring called upon Miss Starr . 
He found the young lady in the library . 
I came in here , she said , because I have a good deal to talk to you about , and I do not want interruptions . 
With this arrangement the young man expressed his entire satisfaction , and immediately began to inquire the cause of her absence from his exhibition in the afternoon . 
But I was there , said Edith . 
You did not see me , but I was there . 
Mother had a headache , and I went by myself . 
You were there ! exclaimed Loring , almost starting from his chair . 
You were not in your seat . 
I was on the very back row of seats . 
You could not see me , and I did not wish you to see me . 
Edith ! exclaimed Loring , rising to his feet and leaning over the library table , which was between them . 
When did you come ? How much of the performance did you see ? I was late , she said . 
I did not arrive until after the fireworks , or whatever they were . 
For a moment Loring was silent , as if he did not understand the situation . 
How did you know there had been fireworks ? I heard the people talking of them as they left the theatre , she answered . 
And what did they say ? he inquired quickly . 
They seemed to like them very well , she replied , but I do not think they were quite satisfied . 
From what I heard some persons say , I inferred that they thought it was not very much of a show to which you had invited them . 
Again Loring stood in thought , looking down at the table . 
But before he could speak again , Edith sprang to her feet . 
Herbert Loring , she cried , what does all this mean ? I was there during the whole of the exhibition of what you called the magic egg . 
It was not an unpainted pine table with four straight legs . 
It was a table of dark polished wood , and it stood on a single post with feet . 
There was nothing there that you said was there . 
Everything was a sham and a delusion every word you spoke was untrue . 
And yet everybody in that theatre , excepting you and me , saw all the things that you said were on the stage . 
Sit down , my dear Edith , he said . 
You are excited , and there is not the slightest cause for it . 
I will explain the whole affair to you . 
You know that study is the great object of my life . 
I study all sorts of things and just now I am greatly interested in hypnotism . 
The subject has become fascinating to me . 
I wanted to see if it were possible for me to hypnotize a considerable number of people without any one suspecting what I intended to do . 
The result was a success . 
I hypnotized all those people by means of the first part of my performance , which consisted of some combinations of colored glass with lights thrown upon them . 
They revolved , and looked like fireworks , and were strung on a wire high up on the stage . 
I kept up the glittering and dazzling show which was well worth seeing , I can assure you until the people had been straining their eyes upward for almost half an hour . 
And this sort of thing I will tell you if you do not know it is one of the methods of producing hypnotic sleep . 
The rest of the exhibition would have been some things that any one could see , and as soon as possible I would have released from their spell those who were hypnotized . 
But when I became positively assured that every one saw a light pine table with four straight legs , I confidently went on with the performances of the magic egg . 
Edith Starr was still standing by the library table . 
She had not heeded Loring's advice to sit down , and she was trembling with emotion . 
Herbert Loring , she said , you invited my mother and me to that exhibition . 
Answer me this did you not intend that I should come and be put under that spell ? Loring smiled . 
Yes , he said , of course I did . 
The subject is extremely Explain to me ! she cried . 
I have nothing to say about the others . 
They can speak for themselves if they ever come to know what you did to them . 
I stood up with the rest of the people . 
But now I know that nothing was real , not even the little pine table not even the man ! Not even me ! exclaimed Loring . 
Surely I was real enough ! On that stage , yes , she said . 
But you there proved you were not the Herbert Loring to whom I promised myself . 
He was an unreal being . 
If a man should treat me in that way once he would treat me so at other times , and in other ways , if he had the chance . 
You have treated me in the past as to day you treated those people who glared at the magic egg . 
In the days gone by you made me see an unreal man , but you will never do it again ! Good by . 
Edith , cried Loring , you don't But she had disappeared through a side door , and he never spoke to her again . 
Walking home through the dimly lighted streets , Loring involuntarily spoke aloud . 
It was at this time I married . 
There was now no doubt in regard to this position , either in my mind or in that of my wife . 
We were by no means rich , but we had enough , and were thoroughly satisfied and content . 
Those of my readers who are married will have no difficulty in remembering the peculiar ecstasy of the first weeks of their wedded life . 
The plain claret of my mind was changed to sparkling champagne , and at the very height of its effervescence I wrote a story . 
When the reading was ended and my wife had dried her eyes , she turned to me and said , This story will make your fortune . 
There has been nothing so pathetic since Lamartine's History of a Servant Girl . 
As soon as possible the next day I sent my story to the editor of the periodical for which I wrote most frequently , and in which my best productions generally appeared . 
In a few days I had a letter from the editor , in which he praised my story as he had never before praised anything from my pen . 
It had interested and charmed , he said , not only himself , but all his associates in the office . 
The story would appear , the editor assured me , as soon as he could possibly find room for it . 
If anything could make our skies more genial , our flowers brighter , and the flavor of our fruit and cigars more delicious , it was a letter like this . 
My personal friends soon began to express enthusiastic opinions upon it . 
It was highly praised in many of the leading newspapers , and , altogether , it was a great literary success . 
I am not inclined to be vain of my writings , and , in general , my wife tells me , I think too little of them . 
But I did feel a good deal of pride and satisfaction in the success of His Wife's Deceased Sister . 
If it did not make my fortune , as my wife asserted it would , it certainly would help me very much in my literary career . 
In less than a month from the writing of this story , something very unusual and unexpected happened to me . 
A manuscript was returned by the editor of the periodical in which His Wife's Deceased Sister had appeared . 
It is a good story , he wrote , but not equal to what you have just done . 
I was so unaccustomed to having my work thrown back on my hands that I think I must have turned a little pale when I read the letter . 
I am not able to express the astonishment I felt when , in the course of a week , it was sent back to me . 
The tone of the note accompanying it indicated a somewhat injured feeling on the part of the editor . 
Let us read the story again , she said , and see what is the matter with it . 
Of course not , said I that was an inspiration that I cannot expect every day . 
But there must be something wrong about this last story which we do not perceive . 
Perhaps my recent success may have made me a little careless in writing it . 
I don't believe that , said Hypatia . 
At any rate , I continued , I will lay it aside , and will go to work on a new one . 
In due course of time I had another manuscript finished , and I sent it to my favorite periodical . 
It was retained some weeks , and then came back to me . 
It will never do , the editor wrote , quite warmly , for you to go backward . 
The editor of a Western magazine wrote to me for a story to be published in a special number which he would issue for the holidays . 
I wrote him one of the character and length he desired , and sent it to him . 
By return mail it came back to me . 
I was so filled with anger when I read this note that I openly objurgated His Wife's Deceased Sister . 
You must excuse me , I said to my astonished wife , for expressing myself thus in your presence , but that confounded story will be the ruin of me yet . 
Until it is forgotten nobody will ever take anything I write . 
And you cannot expect it ever to be forgotten , said Hypatia , with tears in her eyes . 
It is needless for me to detail my literary efforts in the course of the next few months . 
And as to the other journals which I tried , they evidently considered it an insult for me to send them matter inferior to that by which my reputation had lately risen . 
The fact was that my successful story had ruined me . 
My income was at an end , and want actually stared me in the face and I must admit that I did not like the expression of its countenance . 
It was of no use for me to try to write another story like His Wife's Deceased Sister . 
I could not get married every time I began a new manuscript , and it was the exaltation of mind caused by my wedded felicity which produced that story . 
It's perfectly dreadful ! said my wife . 
If I had had a sister , and she had died , I would have thought it was my fault . 
It could not be your fault , I answered , and I do not think it was mine . 
I had no intention of deceiving anybody into the belief that I could do that sort of thing every time , and it ought not to be expected of me . 
Suppose Raphael's patrons had tried to keep him screwed up to the pitch of the Sistine Madonna , and had refused to buy anything which was not as good as that . 
In that case I think he would have occupied a much earlier and narrower grave than the one on which Mr. Morris Moore hangs his funeral decorations . 
But , my dear , said Hypatia , who was posted on such subjects , the Sistine Madonna was one of his latest paintings . 
Very true , said I. But if he had married as I did , he would have painted it earlier . 
I was walking homeward one afternoon about this time , when I met Barbel , a man I had known well in my early literary career . 
He was now about fifty years of age , but looked older . 
Age is very hard on a man's external appointments . 
Barbel had an air of having been to let for a long time , and quite out of repair . 
But there was a kindly gleam in his eye , and he welcomed me cordially . 
Why , what is the matter , old fellow ? said he . 
I never saw you look so woe begone . 
I had no reason to conceal anything from Barbel . 
In my younger days he had been of great use to me , and he had a right to know the state of my affairs . 
I laid the whole case plainly before him . 
Look here , he said , when I had finished come with me to my room I have something I would like to say to you there . 
I followed Barbel to his room . 
Barbel's room was , to my mind , rather more doleful than the street . 
It was dark , it was dusty , and cobwebs hung from every corner . 
The few chairs upon the floor and the books upon a greasy table seemed to be afflicted with some dorsal epidemic , for their backs were either gone or broken . 
A little bedstead in the corner was covered with a spread made of New York Heralds with their edges pasted together . 
I used to use Tribunes , but they rattled too much . 
The only part of the room which was well lighted was one end near the solitary window . 
Here , upon a table with a spliced leg , stood a little grindstone . 
At the other end of the room , said Barbel , is my cook stove , which you can't see unless I light the candle in the bottle which stands by it . 
But if you don't care particularly to examine it , I won't go to the expense of lighting up . 
You might pick up a good many odd pieces of bric a brac , around here , if you chose to strike a match and investigate . 
But I would not advise you to do so . 
It would pay better to throw the things out of the window than to carry them down stairs . 
The particular piece of indoor decoration to which I wish to call your attention is this . 
And he led me to a little wooden frame which hung against the wall near the window . 
Behind a dusty piece of glass it held what appeared to be a leaf from a small magazine or journal . 
There , said he , you see a page from the Grasshopper , a humorous paper which flourished in this city some half dozen years ago . 
I used to write regularly for that paper , as you may remember . 
Oh , yes , indeed ! I exclaimed . 
And I shall never forget your Conundrum of the Anvil' which appeared in it . 
That printed page , he said solemnly , contains the Conundrum of the Anvil . 
I hang it there so that I can see it while I work . 
It was the last thing I wrote for the Grasshopper . 
How I ever came to imagine it , I cannot tell . 
It is one of those things which occur to a man but once in a lifetime . 
After the wild shout of delight with which the public greeted that conundrum , my subsequent efforts met with hoots of derision . 
The Grasshopper' turned its hind legs upon me . 
I sank from bad to worse , much worse , until at last I found myself reduced to my present occupation , which is that of grinding points on pins . 
By this I procure my bread , coffee , and tobacco , and sometimes potatoes and meat . 
One day while I was hard at work , an organ grinder came into the street below . 
This cost me a little money , but it saved me my livelihood . 
After a few moments of silence , Barbel resumed I have no more to say to you , my young friend . 
All I want you to do is to look upon that framed conundrum , then upon this grindstone , and then to go home and reflect . 
As for me , I have a gross of pins to grind before the sun goes down . 
I cannot say that my depression of mind was at all relieved by what I had seen and heard . 
I had lost sight of Barbel for some years , and I had supposed him still floating on the sun sparkling stream of prosperity where I had last seen him . 
As I walked and thought , the dreadful picture of a totally eclipsed future arose before my mind . 
The moral of Barbel sank deep into my heart . 
When I reached home I told my wife the story of my friend Barbel . 
She listened with a sad and eager interest . 
I am afraid , she said , if our fortunes do not quickly mend , that we shall have to buy two little grindstones . 
You know I could help you at that sort of thing . 
For a long time we sat together and talked , and devised many plans for the future . 
I did not think it necessary yet for me to look out for a pin contract but I must find some way of making money , or we should starve to death . 
Of course , the first thing that suggested itself was the possibility of finding some other business . 
The editor was a good man , and had always been my friend . 
He listened with great attention to what I told him , and evidently sympathized with me in my trouble . 
We have had letter after letter asking when we were going to publish another story like His Wife's Deceased Sister . 
We felt , and we still feel , that it would be wrong to allow you to destroy the fair fabric which you yourself have raised . 
Its beams are not genial , I answered . 
They have scorched and withered me . 
Joyfully I seized the noble fellow by the hand , and instantly accepted his proposition . 
I hope that need not be for long , he said , for I feel sure that you will yet write stories as good as His Wife's Deceased Sister . 
I made a similar arrangement with other editors , and John Darmstadt received the credit of everything that proceeded from my pen . 
Our circumstances now became very comfortable , and occasionally we even allowed ourselves to indulge in little dreams of prosperity . 
Time passed on very pleasantly . 
One year , another , and then a little son was born to us . 
For myself I can only say that the same exaltation of mind , the same rarefication of idea and invention , which succeeded upon my wedding day came upon me now . 
As then , my ecstatic emotions crystallized themselves into a motive for a story , and without delay I set myself to work upon it . 
When I had finished , my wife arose and threw herself into my arms . 
I was never so proud of you , she said , her glad eyes sparkling , as I am at this moment . 
That is a wonderful story ! It is , indeed I am sure it is , just as good as His Wife's Deceased Sister . 
As she spoke these words , a sudden and chilling sensation crept over us both . 
All her warmth and fervor , and the proud and happy glow engendered within me by this praise and appreciation from one I loved , vanished in an instant . 
We stepped apart , and gazed upon each other with pallid faces . 
In the same moment the terrible truth had flashed upon us both . 
This story WAS as good as His Wife's Deceased Sister ! We stood silent . 
The exceptional lot of Barbel's super pointed pins seemed to pierce our very souls . 
My wife approached me , and took my hand in hers , which was as cold as ice . 
Be strong and firm , she said . 
A great danger threatens us , but you must brace yourself against it . 
I pressed her hand , and we said no more that night . 
The next day I took the manuscript I had just written , and carefully infolded it in stout wrapping paper . 
Then I went to a neighboring grocery store and bought a small , strong , tin box , originally intended for biscuit , with a cover that fitted tightly . 
In this I placed my manuscript , and then I took the box to a tinsmith and had the top fastened on with hard solder . 
This box was very heavy , and firmly bound with iron , and was secured by two massive locks . 
This key , said I , putting it in my pocket , I shall throw into the river when I go out this afternoon . 
My wife watched me eagerly , with a pallid and firm set countenance , but upon which I could see the faint glimmer of returning happiness . 
When I am dead , those who survive me may , if they see fit , cause this box to be split open and the story published . 
The reputation it may give my name cannot harm me then . 
THE WIDOW'S CRUISE The Widow Ducket lived in a small village about ten miles from the New Jersey sea coast . 
She was a tall woman with no apparent fat in her composition , and full of activity , both muscular and mental . 
Sometimes , however , something different happened , but this was not often , only a few times in the year . 
But it was not yet a quarter to five when a one horse wagon containing four men came slowly down the street . 
Dorcas first saw the wagon , and she instantly stopped knitting . 
Mercy on me ! she exclaimed . 
Whoever those people are , they are strangers here , and they don't know where to stop , for they first go to one side of the street and then to the other . 
The widow looked around sharply . 
You might see that in a twinklin' of an eye . 
Sailormen always drive that way , because that is the way they sail ships . 
They first tack in one direction and then in another . 
Mr. Ducket didn't like the sea ? remarked Dorcas , for about the three hundredth time . 
No , he didn't , answered the widow , for about the two hundred and fiftieth time , for there had been occasions when she thought Dorcas put this question inopportunely . 
He hated it , and he was drowned in it through trustin' a sailorman , which I never did nor shall . 
Do you really believe those men are comin' here ? Upon my word I do ! said Dorcas , and her opinion was correct . 
The wagon drew up in front of Mrs. Ducket's little white house , and the two women sat rigidly , their hands in their laps , staring at the man who drove . 
Is this the Widow Ducket's ? inquired this elderly man , in a strong , penetrating voice . 
That's my name , said the widow , and laying her knitting on the bench beside her , she went to the gate . 
Dorcas also laid her knitting on the bench beside her and went to the gate . 
This is the place , said the widow , and I do give meals if there is enough in the house and everything comes handy . 
Does everything come handy to day ? said he . 
It does , said she , and you can hitch your horse and come in but I haven't got anything for him . 
Oh , that's all right , said the man , we brought along stores for him , so we'll just make fast and then come in . 
The two women hurried into the house in a state of bustling preparation , for the furnishing of this meal meant one dollar in cash . 
The four mariners , all elderly men , descended from the wagon , each one scrambling with alacrity over a different wheel . 
A box of broken ship biscuit was brought out and put on the ground in front of the horse , who immediately set himself to eating with great satisfaction . 
No service was necessary , for everything that was to be eaten or drunk was on the table . 
I was a looking at that porch when I came in , and I bethought to myself what a rare good place it was to smoke a pipe in . 
There's pipes been smoked there , said the widow , rising , and it can be done again . 
Inside the house I don't allow tobacco , but on the porch neither of us minds . 
When a sailorman lights his pipe he is generally willin' to talk , but when he is eatin' you can't get a word out of him . 
Such as anything in particular ? asked the widow , at which remark Dorcas clasped her hands in expectancy . 
At this question each of the mariners took his pipe from his mouth and gazed upon the floor in thought . 
There's a good many strange things happened to me and my mates at sea . 
Would you and that other lady like to hear any of them ? asked Captain Bird . 
We would like to hear them if they are true , said the widow . 
The hold was mostly filled with empty barrels , for we was just beginning our v'yage , and when he had made kindling wood of these there was room enough for him . 
I don't believe any thing stranger than that ever happened to a whaling ship . 
No , said the widow , I don't believe anything ever did . 
Captain Sanderson now put his pipe back into his mouth , and Captain Burress took out his pipe . 
I was once in an obelisk ship , said he , that used to trade regular between Egypt and New York , carrying obelisks . 
We had a big obelisk on board . 
So he had to do something quick , and this is what he did He ordered all steam on , and drove slam bang on that bank . 
Just as he expected , we stopped so suddint that that big obelisk bounced for'ard , its p'inted end foremost , and went clean through the bow and shot out into the sea . 
The minute it did that the vessel was so lightened that it rose in the water and we easily steamed over the bank . 
There was one man knocked overboard by the shock when we struck , but as soon as we missed him we went back after him and we got him all right . 
The man who was knocked overboard he just swum for that obelisk and he climbed up the hiryglyphics . 
We was off the Banks , and the time of year was July , and the ice was coming down , and we got in among a lot of it . 
Bless my soul , said the captain , this is a wonderful curiosity , and I'm going to git him out . 
Just then one of the men said he saw that shark wink , but the captain wouldn't believe him , for he said that shark was frozen stiff and hard and couldn't wink . 
But , as I said before , the captain forgot sharks was cold blooded , and he determined to git that one out . 
Now you both know , being housekeepers , that if you take a needle and drive it into a hunk of ice you can split it . 
The captain had a sail needle with him , and so he drove it into the iceberg right alongside of the shark and split it . 
What a happy fish he must have been ! ejaculated Dorcas , forgetful of precedent , so great was her emotion . 
Yes , said Captain Jenkinson , it was a happy fish enough , but it wasn't a happy captain . 
You see , that shark hadn't had anything to eat , perhaps for a thousand years , until the captain came along with his sail needle . 
Surely you sailormen do see strange things , now said the widow , and the strangest thing about them is that they are true . 
Yes , indeed , said Dorcas , that is the most wonderful thing . 
Captain Bird looked up a little surprised . 
We would like to hear it indeed , we would , madam , said he . 
Ay , ay ! said Captain Burress , and the two other mariners nodded . 
So I said to myself , I've got to get that oil to her , no matter what happens or how it's done . 
Now , the trouble was , I didn't know no more about a boat and the managin' of it than any one of you sailormen knows about clear starchin' . 
No , said she , I didn't row . 
I used the rudder to make the boat go . 
The rudder was the only thing I knew anything about . 
I'd held a rudder when I was a little girl , and I knew how to work it . 
Yes , that is the way I did it , continued the widow , briskly . 
So in this way they continually met , and made the most awful and roarin' pilin' up of waves that ever was known . 
All of a sudden I remembered that oil in the can but just as I was puttin' my fingers on the cork my conscience smote me . 
Now I had time to sit quiet in the midst of the placid space I had made for myself , and rest from workin' of the rudder . 
Truly it was a wonderful and marvellous thing to look at . 
No wonder my heart sank when I saw this . 
The first pond I had come out of seemed to be covered up , and the great , towerin' , throbbin' precipice of sea water was a closin' around me . 
Suddenly the thought struck me that that bottom would give me the only chance I had of gettin' out of the frightful fix I was in . 
Anyway , I thought it would be better to try the smooth water passage down there than stay and be swallowed up by the ragin' waves on top . 
I'd as lieve get into a bath tub with a live crab as to go down there . 
It wasn't of no use even so much as thinkin' of it , so I gave up that plan and didn't once look through that hole again . 
And what did you do , madam ? asked Captain Bird , who was regarding her with a face of stone . 
I used electricity , she said . 
Now don't start as if you had a shock of it . 
Of course I couldn't sink , bein' full of electricity . 
Whereupon each mariner put his hand into his trousers pocket , pulled out a silver quarter , and handed it to the widow . 
Then , with four solemn Good evenin's , they went out to the front gate . 
Cast off , Captain Jenkinson , said Captain Bird , and you , Captain Burress , clew him up for'ard . 
You can stay in the bow , Captain Sanderson , and take the sheet lines . 
All being ready , each of the elderly mariners clambered over a wheel , and having seated themselves , they prepared to lay their course for Cuppertown . 
And when he took our boat and went home and told that story to his wife , she just packed up and went out West , and got divorced from him . 
And it served him right , too . 
Thank you , ma'am , said Captain Jenkinson , and going out of the gate , he clambered up over the wheel , and the wagon cleared for Cuppertown . 
When the elderly mariners were gone , the Widow Ducket , still standing in the door , turned to Dorcas . 
Think of it ! she said . 
And not one of them brandied peaches left ! The widow jingled the four quarters in her hand before she slipped them into her pocket . 
Anyway , Dorcas , she remarked , I think we can now say we are square with all the world , and so let's go in and wash the dishes . 
Yes , said Dorcas , we're square . 
Eastward the village ends abruptly at the foot of a windswept bluff , on which no one cares to build . 
Among the last houses in the western end of the village stood two neat , substantial dwellings , one belonging to Captain Eli Bunker , and the other to Captain Cephas Dyer . 
Each of these good captains lived alone , and each took entire charge of his own domestic affairs , not because he was poor , but because it pleased him to do so . 
When Captain Eli's wife was living she was his household manager . 
But Captain Cephas soon put an end to this sort of thing . 
He did not like a woman's ways , especially her ways of attending to domestic affairs . 
He liked to live in sailor fashion , and to keep house in sailor fashion . 
In his establishment everything was shipshape , and everything which could be stowed away was stowed away , and , if possible , in a bunker . 
Things not in frequent use were lashed securely to the walls , or perhaps put out of the way by being hauled up to the ceiling by means of blocks and tackle . 
His cooking was done sailor fashion , like everything else , and he never failed to have plum duff on Sunday . 
His well was near his house , and every morning he dropped into it a lead and line , and noted down the depth of water . 
Captain Eli managed his domestic affairs in an entirely different way . 
Like his friend , Captain Cephas , he had had the assistance of his female neighbors during the earlier days of his widowerhood . 
Therefore it was that Captain Eli determined to keep house by himself , and to do it , as nearly as his nature would allow , as Miranda used to do it . 
He made his bed very neatly , turning down the sheet at the top , and setting the pillow upon edge , smoothing it carefully after he had done so . 
His cooking was based on the methods of the late Miranda . 
He had never been able to make bread rise properly , but he had always liked ship biscuit , and he now greatly preferred them to the risen bread made by his neighbors . 
And as to coffee and the plainer articles of food with which he furnished his table , even Miranda herself would not have objected to them had she been alive and very hungry . 
The houses of the two captains were not very far apart , and they were good neighbors , often smoking their pipes together and talking of the sea . 
But this was always on the little porch in front of Captain Cephas's house , or by his kitchen fire in the winter . 
Captain Eli did not like the smell of tobacco smoke in his house , or even in front of it in summer time , when the doors were open . 
It was late in a certain December , and through the village there was a pleasant little flutter of Christmas preparations . 
Captain Eli walked home very slowly , taking observations in his mind . 
But now the heart of Captain Eli was gently moved by a Christmas flutter . 
It had been foolish , perhaps , for him to go up to the store at such a time as this , but the mischief had been done . 
Old feelings had come back to him , and he would be glad to celebrate Christmas this year if he could think of any good way to do it . 
And the result of his mental observations was that he went over to Captain Cephas's house to talk to him about it . 
Captain Cephas was in his kitchen , smoking his third morning pipe . 
Captain Eli filled his pipe , lighted it , and sat down by the fire . 
It might be in my house , or it might be in your house it won't make no great difference to me which . 
Of course , I like woman housekeepin' , as is laid down in the rules of service fer my house . 
But next best to that I like sailor housekeepin' , so I don't mind which house the dinner is in , Cap'n Cephas , so it suits you . 
Captain Cephas took his pipe from his mouth . 
You're pretty late thinkin' about it , said he , fer day after to morrow's Christmas . 
That don't make no difference , said Captain Eli . 
What things we want that are not in my house or your house we can easily get either up at the store or else in the woods . 
In the woods ! exclaimed Captain Cephas . 
What in the name of thunder do you expect to get in the woods for Christmas ? A Christmas tree , said Captain Eli . 
I thought it might be a nice thing to have a Christmas tree fer Christmas . 
Cap'n Holmes has got one , and Mother Nelson's got another . 
I guess nearly everybody's got one . 
It won't cost anything I can go and cut it . 
Captain Cephas grinned a grin , as if a great leak had been sprung in the side of a vessel , stretching nearly from stem to stern . 
A Christmas tree ! he exclaimed . 
Well , I am blessed ! But look here , Cap'n Eli . 
You don't know what a Christmas tree's fer . 
It's fer children , and not fer grown ups . 
Nobody ever does have a Christmas tree in any house where there ain't no children . 
Captain Eli rose and stood with his back to the fire . 
I didn't think of that , he said , but I guess it's so . 
And when I come to think of it , a Christmas isn't much of a Christmas , anyway , without children . 
You never had none , said Captain Cephas , and you've kept Christmas . 
Yes , replied Captain Eli , reflectively , we did do it , but there was always a lackment Miranda has said so , and I have said so . 
You didn't have no Christmas tree , said Captain Cephas . 
But I don't think that folks was as much set on Christmas trees then as they 'pear to be now . 
And then , when it went away , it could take along the things that was hangin' on the tree , and keep 'em fer its own . 
That wouldn't work , said Captain Cephas . 
Most children think more of stockin's than they do of trees so I've heard , at least . 
I've got no objections to stockin's , said Captain Eli . 
If it wanted to hang one up , it could hang one up either here or in my house , wherever we kept Christmas . 
That's so , said Captain Eli . 
I suppose if we did keep a child all night , we'd have to have some sort of a woman within hail in case of a sudden blow . 
What's the good of talkin' ? said he . 
No , said Captain Eli . 
And won't be kept much longer , said Captain Cephas , fer I've hearn Mrs. Crumley say she couldn't afford it . 
That's so , said Captain Eli . 
You're all the time forgettin' , said the other , that nuther of us can keep a child all night . 
Captain Eli seated himself , and looked ponderingly into the fire . 
You're right , cap'n , said he . 
We'd have to ship some woman to take care of her . 
Of course , it wouldn't be no use to ask Mrs. Crumley ? Captain Cephas laughed . 
And there doesn't seem to be anybody else , said his companion . 
Can you think of anybody , cap'n ? There ain't anybody to think of , replied Captain Cephas , unless it might be Eliza Trimmer . 
She's generally ready enough to do anything that turns up . 
But she wouldn't be no good her house is too far away for either you or me to hail her in case a croup came up suddint . 
That's so , said Captain Eli . 
She does live a long way off . 
So that settles the whole business , said Captain Cephas . 
Captain Eli looked into the fire . 
I don't like to give up things if I can help it . 
That was always my way . 
If wind and tide's ag'in' me , I can wait till one or the other , or both of them , serve . 
Yes , said Captain Cephas , you was always that kind of a man . 
She's a nice little gal , and takes as natural to navigation as if she'd been born at sea . 
I've given her two or three things because she's so pretty , but there's nothing she likes so much as a little ship I gave her . 
Perhaps she was born at sea , remarked Captain Cephas . 
Perhaps she was , said the other and that makes it the bigger pity . 
For a few moments nothing was said . 
Then Captain Eli suddenly exclaimed , I'll tell you what we might do , cap'n ! We might ask Mrs. Trimmer to lend a hand in givin' the little gal a Christmas . 
She ain't got nobody in her house but herself , and I guess she'd be glad enough to help give that little gal a regular Christmas . 
Captain Cephas fixed upon his friend an earnest glare . 
That's pretty considerable of an idea to come upon you so suddint , said he . 
But I can tell you one thing there ain't a goin' to be any such doin's in my house . 
If you choose to come over here to sleep , and give up your house to any woman you can find to take care of the little gal , all right . 
But the thing can't be done here . 
There was a certain severity in these remarks , but they appeared to affect Captain Eli very pleasantly . 
Well , said he , if you're satisfied , I am . 
I'll agree to any plan you choose to make . 
It doesn't matter to me which house it's in , and if you say my house , I say my house . 
All I want is to make the business agreeable to all concerned . 
S'posin' we divide up this business I'll go and see Mrs. Crumley about the little gal , and you can go and see Mrs. Trimmer . 
No , sir , promptly replied Captain Cephas , I don't go to see no Mrs. Trimmer . 
You can see both of them just the same as you can see one they're all along the same way . 
I'll go cut the Christmas tree . 
All right , said Captain Eli . 
It don't make no difference to me which does which . 
But if I was you , cap'n , I'd cut a good big tree , because we might as well have a good one while we're about it . 
Even an absence of a day or two at the house of the good captain would be some relief , and Mrs. Crumley readily consented to the Christmas scheme . 
As to the little girl , she was delighted . 
She already looked upon Captain Eli as her best friend in the world . 
It was not so easy to go to Mrs. Trimmer's house and put the business before her . 
It ought to be plain sailin' enough , Captain Eli said to himself , over and over again , but , fer all that , it don't seem to be plain sailin' . 
But he was not a man to be deterred by difficult navigation , and he walked straight to Eliza Trimmer's house . 
She had come to Sponkannis because she thought that there she could live cheaper and get more work than in her former home . 
She had found the first quite possible , but her success in regard to the work had not been very great . 
When Captain Eli entered Mrs. Trimmer's little room , he found her busy mending a sail . 
You turn your hand to 'most anything , Mrs. Trimmer , said he , after he had greeted her . 
Oh , yes , she answered , with a smile , I am obliged to do that . 
Mending sails is pretty heavy work , but it's better than nothing . 
She stopped sewing on the sail , and listened while Captain Eli laid his plan before her . 
It's very kind in you and Captain Cephas to think of all that , said she . 
I have often noticed that poor little girl , and pitied her . 
Certainly I'll come , and you needn't say anything about paying me for it . 
I wouldn't think of asking to be paid for doing a thing like that . 
And besides , she smiled again as she spoke , if you are going to give me a Christmas dinner , as you say , that will make things more than square . 
Captain Eli was delighted with the arrangements . 
Things now seem to be goin' along before a spankin' breeze , said he . 
But I don't know about the dinner . 
I guess you will have to leave that to me . 
I don't believe Captain Cephas could eat a woman cooked dinner . 
He's accustomed to livin sailor fashion , you know , and he has declared over and over again to me that woman cookin' doesn't agree with him . 
When the captain had gone , Mrs. Trimmer gayly put away the sail . 
There was no need to finish it in a hurry , and no knowing when she would get her money for it when it was done . 
No one had asked her to a Christmas dinner that year , and she had expected to have a lonely time of it . 
But it would be very pleasant to spend Christmas with the little girl and the two good captains . 
Instead of sewing any more on the sail , she got out some of her own clothes to see if they needed anything done to them . 
There was a good deal of talk about all this , but Captain Eli had his own way . 
I don't suppose , after all , said he , that the little gal ought to have all the things . 
This is such a big tree that it's more like a family tree . 
What I want is to make everybody satisfied . 
I'm sure I think they ought to be , said Mrs. Trimmer , looking very kindly at Captain Eli . 
Mrs. Trimmer went home to her own house to dinner , and in the afternoon she brought the little girl . 
She had said there ought to be an early supper , so that the child would have time to enjoy the Christmas tree before she became sleepy . 
This meal was prepared entirely by Captain Eli , and in sailor fashion , not woman fashion , so that Captain Cephas could make no excuse for eating his supper at home . 
Of course they all ought to be together the whole of that Christmas eve . 
Captain Cephas ate his supper with a good relish , and was still eating when the rest had finished . 
As to the Christmas tree , it was the most valuable , if not the most beautiful , that had ever been set up in that region . 
Then the distribution of the presents began . 
Captain Eli asked Captain Cephas if he might have the wooden pipe that the latter had brought for his present . 
Captain Cephas said he might take it , for all he cared , and be welcome to it . 
Then Captain Eli gave Captain Cephas a red bandanna handkerchief of a very curious pattern , and Captain Cephas thanked him kindly . 
It seems to me , said Captain Cephas , that you might be giving something to the little gal . 
But Captain Eli answered that they could be taken care of by somebody until the little girl was old enough to know their value . 
These she bestowed upon Captain Cephas and Captain Eli . 
Captain Cephas was not quite so happy as the three others were , but he was very much interested . 
He was sure he could hear it , for the wind was exactly right for him to hear a whistle from his house . 
When they had gone Mrs. Trimmer put the little girl to bed , and was delighted to find in what a wonderfully neat and womanlike fashion that house was kept . 
It was nearly twelve o'clock that night when Captain Eli , sleeping in his bunk opposite that of Captain Cephas , was aroused by hearing a sound . 
He had been lying with his best ear uppermost , so that he should hear anything if there happened to be anything to hear . 
He did hear something , but it was not a boatswain's whistle it was a prolonged cry , and it seemed to come from the sea . 
In a moment Captain Eli was sitting on the side of his bunk , listening intently . 
The window toward the sea was slightly open , and he heard it plainly . 
Cap'n ! said he , and at the word Captain Cephas was sitting on the side of his bunk , listening . 
That's distress at sea , said Captain Cephas . 
Harken ! They listened again for nearly a minute , when the cry was repeated . 
Bounce on deck , boys ! said Captain Cephas , getting out on the floor . 
There's some one in distress off shore . 
Captain Eli jumped to the floor , and began to dress quickly . 
It couldn't be a call from land ? he asked hurriedly . 
It don't sound a bit to you like a boatswain's whistle , does it ? No , said Captain Cephas , disdainfully . 
It's a call from sea . 
Then , seizing a lantern , he rushed down the companionway . 
As soon as he was convinced that it was a call from sea , Captain Eli was one in feeling and action with Captain Cephas . 
Then they clapped on their caps and their pea jackets , each took an oar from a corner in the back hall , and together they ran down to the beach . 
The night was dark , but not very cold , and Captain Cephas had been to the store that morning in his boat . 
Whenever he went to the store , and the weather permitted , he rowed there in his boat rather than walk . 
At the bow of the boat , which was now drawn up on the sand , the two men stood and listened . 
Again came the cry from the sea . 
It's something ashore on the Turtle back Shoal , said Captain Cephas . 
Yes , said Captain Eli , and it's some small craft , fer that cry is down pretty nigh to the water . 
Yes , said Captain Cephas . 
And there's only one man aboard , or else they'd take turns a hollerin' . 
He's a stranger , said Captain Eli , or he wouldn't have tried , even with a cat boat , to get in over that shoal on ebb tide . 
As they spoke they ran the boat out into the water and jumped in , each with an oar . 
Then they pulled for the Turtle back Shoal . 
Now the cries from seaward had ceased , but the two captains were not discouraged . 
He's heard the thumpin' of our oars , said Captain Cephas . 
He's listenin' , and he'll sing out again if he thinks we're goin' wrong , said Captain Eli . 
Of course he doesn't know anything about that . 
And so when they made the sweep to the south the cry came again , and Captain Eli grinned . 
We needn't to spend no breath hollerin' , said he . 
He'll hear us makin' fer him in a minute . 
He had not wanted the shipwrecked person to see the light when it would seem as if the boat were rowing away from him . 
He had heard of castaway people who became so wild when they imagined that a ship or boat was going away from them that they jumped overboard . 
When the two captains reached the shoal , they found there a cat boat aground , with one man aboard . 
His tale was quickly told . 
The two captains did not ask many questions . 
They helped anchor the cat boat , and then they took the man on their boat and rowed him to shore . 
Then Captain Cephas showed the stranger to a bunk , and they all went to bed . 
Such experiences had not enough of novelty to the good captains to keep them awake five minutes . 
Any time during flood tide would do for him , and he had some business that he wanted to attend to as soon as possible . 
This suited the two captains very well , for they wished to be on hand when the little girl discovered her stocking . 
For a few moments there was silence . 
Then Captain Cephas , who thought some answer should be made to the question , nodded his head . 
I want to see her as soon as I can , said the stranger . 
I have come to see her on particular business that will be a surprise to her . 
I wanted to be here before Christmas began , and that's the reason I took that cat boat from Stetford , because I thought I'd come quicker that way than by land . 
But the wind fell , as I told you . 
, and beckoned to his friend to follow . 
The two men stood in the kitchen and looked at each other . 
The face of Captain Eli was of the hue of a clam shell . 
Go with him , cap'n , he said in a hoarse whisper . 
To your house ? inquired the other . 
Take him to my house . 
There ain't no other place where she is . 
Captain Cephas's countenance wore an air of the deepest concern , but he thought that the best thing to do was to get the stranger away . 
As they walked rapidly toward Captain Eli's house there was very little said by either Captain Cephas or the stranger . 
The latter seemed anxious to give Mrs. Trimmer a surprise , and not to say anything which might enable another person to interfere with his project . 
The two men had scarcely stepped upon the piazza when Mrs. Trimmer , who had been expecting early visitors , opened the door . 
She was about to call out Merry Christmas ! but , her eyes falling upon a stranger , the words stopped at her lips . 
First she turned red , then she turned pale , and Captain Cephas thought she was about to fall . 
But before she could do this the stranger had her in his arms . 
She opened her eyes , which for a moment she had closed , and , gazing into his face , she put her arms around his neck . 
Then Captain Cephas came away , without thinking of the little girl and the pleasure she would have in discovering her Christmas stocking . 
If I'd only slept with my hard o' hearin' ear up , he said to himself , I'd never have heard it . 
In a few moments his better nature condemned this thought . 
If I hadn't heard him , Captain Cephas never would , fer he wasn't primed up to wake , as I was . 
They was huggin' when I left them , he said , and I expect they went indoors pretty soon , fer it was too cold outside . 
It's an all fired shame she happened to be in your house , cap'n , that's all I've got to say about it . 
Captain Eli made no answer . 
He still sat with his elbows on his knees and his hands in his hair . 
A better course than you laid down fer these Christmas times was never dotted on a chart , continued Captain Cephas . 
From port of sailin' to port of entry you laid it down clear and fine . 
But it seems there was rocks that wasn't marked on the chart . 
Yes , groaned Captain Eli , there was rocks . 
Captain Cephas made no attempt to comfort his friend , but went to work to get breakfast . 
When that meal a rather silent one was over , Captain Eli felt better . 
There was rocks , he said , and not a breaker to show where they lay , and I struck 'em bow on . 
So that's the end of that voyage . 
But I've tuk to my boats , cap'n , I've tuk to my boats . 
I'm glad to hear you've tuk to your boats , said Captain Cephas , with an approving glance upon his friend . 
About ten minutes afterwards Captain Eli said , I'm goin' up to my house . 
By yourself ? said the other . 
I can stay here , and you and me can have our Christmas dinner together , if we choose to give it that name . 
And if she ain't ready to go to morrow , she can stay a day or two longer . 
It's all the same to me , if it's the same to you , cap'n . 
Before Captain Eli reached his house he saw something which pleased him . 
He saw the sea going stranger , with his back toward him , walking rapidly in the direction of the village store . 
Captain Eli quickly entered his house , and in the doorway of the room where the tree was he met Mrs. Trimmer , beaming brighter than any morning sun that ever rose . 
Merry Christmas ! she exclaimed , holding out both her hands . 
I've been wondering and wondering when you'd come to bid me Merry Christmas' the merriest Christmas I've ever had . 
Captain Eli took her hands and bid her Merry Christmas very gravely . 
She looked a little surprised . 
What's the matter , Captain Eli ? she exclaimed . 
You don't seem to say that as if you meant it . 
Oh , yes , I do , he answered . 
This must be an all fired I mean a thunderin' happy Christmas fer you , Mrs. Trimmer . 
Yes , said she , her face beaming again . 
Mrs. Trimmer stepped back almost frightened . 
My brother , said she . 
And here he has come to me as if he'd tumbled from the sky on this blessed Christmas morning . 
Captain Eli made a step forward , his face very much flushed . 
Your brother , Mrs. Trimmer did you really say it was your brother ? Of course it is , said she . 
Who else could it be ? Then she paused for a moment and looked steadfastly at the captain . 
You don't mean to say , Captain Eli , she asked , that you thought it was Yes , I did , said Captain Eli , promptly . 
Mrs. Trimmer looked straight in the captain's eyes , then she looked on the ground . 
Then she changed color and changed back again . 
I don't understand , she said hesitatingly , why I mean what difference it made . 
Difference ! exclaimed Captain Eli . 
It was all the difference between a man on deck and a man overboard that's the difference it was to me . 
Of course I did , she answered , looking up at him as she spoke . 
Who else could it have been for ! Well , said he , you were mistaken . 
It wasn't fer any one of you . 
It was all fer me fer my own self . 
You yourself ? said she . 
But I see how , he answered . 
It's been a long time since I wanted to speak my mind to you , Mrs. Trimmer , but I didn't ever have no chance . 
Everything went on a skimmin' till this mornin' , when that stranger that we brought in from the shoal piped up and asked fer you . 
Then I went overboard at least , I thought I did and sunk down , down , clean out of soundin's . 
That was too bad , captain , said she , speaking very gently , after all your trouble and kindness . 
But I don't know now , he continued , whether I went overboard or whether I am on deck . 
Can you tell me , Mrs. Trimmer ? She looked up at him . 
Her eyes were very soft , and her lips trembled just a little . 
It seems to me , captain , she said , that you are on deck if you want to be . 
The captain stepped closer to her . 
Mrs. Trimmer , said he , is that brother of yours comin' back ? Yes , she answered , surprised at the sudden question . 
He's just gone up to the store to buy a shirt and some things . 
He got himself splashed trying to push his boat off last night . 
Her eyes were not so soft as they had been , but they were brighter . 
I'd rather you'd tell him that yourself , said she . 
The little girl sat on the floor near the Christmas tree , just finishing a large piece of red and white candy which she had taken out of her stocking . 
People do hug a lot at Christmas time , said she to herself . 
Then she drew out a piece of blue and white candy and began on that . 
Captain Cephas waited a long time for his friend to return , and at last he thought it would be well to go and look for him . 
It looks as if I was in port , don't it ? said Captain Eli to his astonished friend . 
Well , here I am , and here's my fust mate , inclining his head toward Mrs. Trimmer . 
And she's in port too , safe and sound . 
And that strange captain on the other side of her , he's her brother Bob , who's been away for years and years , and is just home from Madagascar . 
Singapore , amended Brother Bob . 
Captain Cephas looked from one to the other of the three occupants of the sofa , but made no immediate remark . 
Here I am , she said . 
Don't you want to give me a Christmas hug , Captain Cephas ? You and me's the only ones that hasn't had any . 
The Christmas dinner was as truly and perfectly a sailor cooked meal as ever was served on board a ship or off it . 
Captain Cephas had said that , and when he had so spoken there was no need of further words . 
It was nearly dark that afternoon , and they were all sitting around the kitchen fire , the three seafaring men smoking , and Mrs. Trimmer greatly enjoying it . 
There could be no objection to the smell of tobacco in this house so long as its future mistress enjoyed it . 
The little girl sat on the floor nursing a Chinese idol which had been one of her presents . 
After all , said Captain Eli , meditatively , this whole business come out of my sleepin' with my best ear up . 
Fer if I'd slept with my hard o' hearin' ear up Mrs. Trimmer put one finger on his lips . 
All right , said Captain Eli , I won't say no more . 
But it would have been different . 
Of course it's the most all fired nonsense , he says to himself over and over again . 
Nevertheless , he feels safer when it is his hard o' hearin' ear that is not upon the pillow . 
LOVE BEFORE BREAKFAST I was still a young man when I came into the possession of an excellent estate . 
This consisted of a large country house , surrounded by lawns , groves , and gardens , and situated not far from the flourishing little town of Boynton . 
My agent assured me that I would have no trouble whatever in letting my place , for it offered many advantages and I expected but a reasonable rent . 
In spite , however , of the assurances of the agent , it was not easy to let my place . 
I had engaged my steamer passage , and the day for my departure drew near , and yet no suitable tenants had presented themselves . 
Fortunately I was at home , and I gave myself the pleasure of personally conducting them about the premises . 
It was a pleasure , because as soon as I comprehended the fact that these applicants desired to rent my house I wished them to have it . 
The family consisted of an elderly gentleman and his wife , with a daughter of twenty or thereabout . 
This was a family that suited me exactly . 
I say labored advisedly , because I racked my brain to think of inducements which might bring them to a speedy and favorable decision . 
Long before we had completed the tour of inspection I had made up my mind that this young lady should come to live in my house . 
If obstacles should show themselves they should be removed . 
I trembled to think of her going elsewhere and giving other householders a chance to tempt her . 
She had looked at a good many country houses , but it was quite plain that none of them had pleased her so well as mine . 
I am so glad , she said as we went in . 
I am sure I shall enjoy every hour of our stay here . 
It is so different from anything we have yet seen . 
When everything had been settled I wanted to take them again over the place and point out a lot of things I had omitted . 
I particularly wanted to show them some lovely walks in the woods . 
But there was no time , for they had to catch a train . 
Her name was Vincent Cora Vincent , as I discovered from her mother's remarks . 
As soon as they departed I had my mare saddled and rode into town to see my agent . 
I went into his office exultant . 
I've let my house , I said , and I want you to make out the lease and have everything fixed and settled as soon as possible . 
This is the address of my tenants . 
The agent asked me a good many questions , being particularly anxious to know what rent had been agreed upon . 
Heavens ! he exclaimed , when I mentioned the sum , that is ever so much less than I told you you could get . 
I am in communication now with a party whom I know would pay you considerably more than these people . 
Have you definitely settled with them ? Perhaps it is not too late to withdraw . 
Never ! They are the only tenants I want . 
I was determined to get them , and I think I must have lowered the rent four or five times in the course of the afternoon . 
I took a big slice out of it before I mentioned the sum at all . 
You see , said I , very impressively , these Vincents exactly suit me . 
It was now May , and my steamer would sail on the twenty first . 
The intervening days I employed , not in preparing for my travels , but in making every possible arrangement for the comfort and convenience of my incoming tenants . 
A very good steamer sailed on June , and it would have suited me just as well . 
I found no one at home but the old gentleman , and it made no difference to him whether the awnings were black and brown or red and yellow . 
It was so much better , I told him , to talk over these matters personally with the owner than with an agent in his absence . 
Agents were often very unwilling to make changes . 
I mentioned this matter to my agent , suggesting that if he happened to be in New York he might call on the Vincents and repeat my invitation . 
It was not likely that the old gentleman would remember to mention it to his wife and daughter , and it was really important that everything should be made satisfactory before I left . 
It seems to me , he said , smiling a little grimly , that the Vincents had better be kept away from your house until you have gone . 
If you do anything more to it you may find out that it would have been more profitable to have shut it up while you are away . 
Next week ! I exclaimed . 
I shall be gone then ! But I shall be here , said Mr. Barker , and I'll show them about and take their suggestions . 
This did not suit me at all . 
It annoyed me very much to think of Barker showing Miss Vincent about my place . 
He was a good looking young man and not at all backward in his manners . 
After all , said I , I suppose that everything that ought to be done has been done . 
I hope you told her that . 
Of course not , said he . 
That would have been running dead against your orders . 
Besides , it's my business to show people about places . 
This gave me an unpleasant and uneasy feeling . 
Barker , said I , a little later , there will be no use of your going every month to the Vincents to collect their rent . 
I shall write to Mr. Vincent to pay as he pleases . 
He can send a check monthly or at the end of the season , as it may be convenient . 
He is perfectly responsible , and I would much prefer to have the money in a lump when I come back . 
All right , said he , but that's not the way to do business , you know . 
This might have been a good deal to get out of his expression , but I think I could have got more if I had thought longer . 
On the day before that on which I was to sail , my mind was in such a disturbed condition that I could not attend to my packing or anything else . 
It almost enraged me to think that I was deliberately leaving the country ten days before my tenants would come to my house . 
There was no reason why I should do this . 
There were many reasons why I should not . 
I was now of the opinion that he would personally superintend the removal of the Vincents and their establishment to my home . 
I remembered that the only suggestion he had made about the improvement of the place had been the construction of a tennis court . 
I knew that he was a champion player . 
Confound it ! What a dreadful mistake I had made in selecting such a man for my house agent . 
With my mind's eye I could already see Miss Vincent and Barker selecting a spot for tennis and planning the arrangements of the court . 
I took the first train to New York and went directly to the steamboat office . 
It is astonishing how many obstacles can be removed from a man's path if he will make up his mind to give them a good kick . 
I found that my steamer was crowded . 
The applications for passage exceeded the accommodations , and the agent was delighted to transfer me to the steamer that sailed on June . 
If I had told him that part of that business was the laying out of a tennis court he might have looked blanker . 
I hope that they were also pleased , and I am sure that they had every reason to be so . 
The invitation was accepted with alacrity , for tennis , she declared , was a passion with her . 
Of course she would have discovered these , but it was a great deal better for her to know all about them before she came . 
At last Mrs. Vincent sent a maid to tell her daughter that it was time to go for the train , and the court had not been definitely planned . 
The next day I went to Miss Vincent's house with a plan of the grounds , and she and I talked it over until the matter was settled . 
It was necessary to be prompt about this , I explained , as there would be a great deal of levelling and rolling to be done . 
I also had a talk with the old gentleman about books . 
There were several large boxes of my books in New York which I had never sent out to my country house . 
Many of these I thought might be interesting to him , and I offered to have them taken out and left at his disposal . 
The selection and cataloguing of the volumes desired occupied the mornings of three days . 
All this greatly protracted our labors . 
She was not only a beautiful girl , but her intelligence and intellectual grasp were wonderful . 
You are so fond of your house and everything you have , said she , that we shall almost feel as if we were depriving you of your rights . 
But I suppose that Italian lakes and the Alps will make you forget for a time even your beautiful home . 
Not if you are in it , I longed to say , but I restrained myself . 
To her I was simply her father's landlord . 
The first day I saw only the father . 
The second day it was the mother who assured me that everything had been properly attended to . 
I began to feel that if I did not wish a decided rebuff I would better not make any more pretences of business at the Vincent house . 
There were affairs of my own which should have been attended to , and I ought to have gone home and attended to them , but I could not bear to do so . 
There was no reason to suppose she would go out there before the first of June . 
Thinking over the matter many times , I came to the conclusion that if I could see her once more I would be satisfied . 
To obtain this final interview there was but one way . 
I had left my house on Saturday , the Vincents would come on the following Monday , and I would sail on Wednesday . 
I would go on Tuesday to inquire if they found everything to their satisfaction . 
This would be a very proper attention from a landlord about to leave the country . 
When I reached Boynton I determined to walk to my house , for I did not wish to encumber myself with a hired vehicle . 
I might be asked to stay to luncheon . 
A very strange feeling came over me as I entered my grounds . 
For the time being they belonged to somebody else . 
I was merely a visitor or a trespasser if the Vincents thought proper so to consider me . 
If they did not like people to walk on the grass I had no right to do it . 
Rock Lake ! When I had driven over there with my friends , we had taken luncheon at the inn and returned in the afternoon . 
And what did they know of Rock Lake ? Who had told them of it ? That officious Barker , of course . 
Will you leave a message , sir ? said the maid , who , of course , did not know me . 
Worse and worse ! Their coachman had not driven them ! Some one who knew the country had been their companion . 
I had no right to ask any more questions . 
I left no message nor any name , and I had no excuse for saying I would call again . 
He sent , however , his best good wishes for my safe passage , and assured me that he would keep me fully informed of the state of my affairs on this side . 
It had become impossible , I told the agent , for me to leave America at present . 
He wanted me to change to another date , but I declined to do this . 
I was not able to say when I should sail . 
I now had no plan of action . 
All I knew was that I could not leave America without finding out something definite about this Barker business . 
I would withdraw my business from his hands and place it in those of old Mr. Poindexter . 
More than that , it might be my duty to warn Miss Vincent's parents against Barker . 
In fact , the more I thought about it the more I became convinced that if ever I mentioned Barker to my tenants it would be to warn them against him . 
From certain points of view he was actually a dangerous man . 
This , however , I would not do until I found my agent was really culpable . 
To discover what Barker had done , what he was doing , and what he intended to do , was now my only business in life . 
Until I had satisfied myself on these points I could not think of starting out upon my travels . 
For the first time I commended the super enterprise of a reporter who gave more attention to the timeliness of his news than to its accuracy . 
I was stopping at a New York hotel , but I did not wish to stay there . 
Until I felt myself ready to start on my travels the neighborhood of Boynton would suit me better than anywhere else . 
After considering the matter , I thought of something that might suit me . 
The miller , an old man , had recently died , and his house near by was occupied by a newcomer whom I had never seen . 
If I could get accommodations there it would suit me exactly . 
I left the train two stations below Boynton and walked over to the mill . 
The place suited my requirements very well . 
It was near her , and I might live here for a time unnoticed , but what I was going to do with my opportunity I did not know . 
This conviction was banished on the second afternoon of my stay at the mill . 
Instinctively I pulled my straw hat over my eyes , but this precaution was not necessary . 
I had seen her , and it was with her father she was riding . 
I do not believe I slept a minute that night through thinking of her , and feeling glad that I was near her , and that she had been riding with her father . 
When the early dawn began to break an idea brighter than the dawn broke upon me I would get up and go nearer to her . 
It is amazing how much we lose by not getting up early on the long summer days . 
I did not even see a dog . 
The lazy rascal would probably not awaken for two or three hours yet , but I would ran no risks , and in half an hour I had sped away . 
Now I knew exactly why I was staying at the house of the miller . 
Every morning , soon after break of day , I went to my home and wandered about my grounds . 
If it rained I did not mind that . 
I like a summer rain . 
Day by day I grew bolder . 
Nobody in that household thought of getting up until seven o'clock . 
In these happy mornings I felt all the life and spirits of a boy . 
I went into my little field and stroked the sleek sides of my cows as they nibbled the dewy grass . 
I even peeped through the barred window of Sappho's box and fed her , as I had been used to doing , with bunches of clover . 
I saw that the young chickens were flourishing . 
I went into the garden and noted the growth of the vegetables , feeling glad that she would have so many fine strawberries and tender peas . 
Not far from the house there was a cluster of old fashioned pinks which I was sure were not doing very well . 
They had been there too long , perhaps , and they looked stunted and weak . 
Gradually I constituted myself the regular flower gardener of the premises . 
Once again I had seen Miss Vincent . 
The miller was rowing , and in the stern sat an elderly gentleman and a young lady . 
I knew them in an instant they were Mr. and Miss Vincent . 
How relieved I was ! It would have been terribly embarrassing had they discovered me . 
And how disappointed I was that the miller turned back so soon ! I now extended the supervision of my grounds . 
I walked through the woods , and saw how beautiful they were in the early dawn . 
There was a great beech tree , between which and a dogwood I had the year before suspended a hammock . 
In passing this , one morning , I was amazed to see a hammock swinging from the hooks I had put in the two trees . 
This was a retreat which I had supposed no one else would fancy or even think of ! In the hammock was a fan a common Japanese fan . 
For fifteen minutes I stood looking at that hammock , every nerve a tingle . 
The spot had been almost unfrequented since last summer . 
Little bushes , weeds , and vines had sprung up here and there between the two trees . 
There were dead twigs and limbs lying about , and the short path to the main walk was much overgrown . 
I looked at my watch . 
It was a quarter to six . 
I had yet a good hour for work , and with nothing but my pocket knife and my hands I began to clear away the space about that hammock . 
When I left it , it looked as it used to look when it was my pleasure to lie there and swing and read and reflect . 
The next morning when I took this path I was late because I had unfortunately overslept myself . 
When I reached the hammock it wanted fifteen minutes to seven o'clock . 
I did more than that . 
Why shouldn't I ? I got into it . 
It was a better one than that I had hung there . 
But I knew I must not revel in this place too long . 
I was on the point of rising to leave when I heard approaching footsteps . 
Was I at last to be discovered ? This was what came of my reckless security . 
But perhaps the person , some workman most likely , would pass without noticing me . 
To remain quiet seemed the best course , and I lay motionless . 
But the person approaching turned into the little pathway . 
I sprang from the hammock . 
Before me was Miss Vincent ! What was my aspect I know not , but I have no doubt I turned fiery red . 
She stopped suddenly , but she did not turn red . 
Oh , Mr. Ripley , she exclaimed , good morning ! You must excuse me . 
I did not know That she should have had sufficient self possession to say good morning amazed me . 
Her whole appearance , in fact , amazed me . 
There seemed to be something wanting in her manner . 
I endeavored to get myself into condition . 
You must be surprised , I said , to see me here . 
You supposed I was in Europe , but As I spoke I made a couple of steps toward her , but suddenly stopped . 
One of my coat buttons had caught in the meshes of the hammock . 
I tried to loosen the button , but it was badly entangled . 
Then I desperately pulled at it to tear it off . 
Oh , don't do that , she said . 
Let me unfasten it for you . 
And taking the threads of the hammock in one of her little hands and the button in the other , she quickly separated them . 
I should think buttons would be very inconvenient things at least , in hammocks , she said smiling . 
You see , girls don't have any such trouble . 
I could not understand her manner . 
She seemed to take my being there as a matter of course . 
I must beg a thousand pardons for this this trespass , I said . 
Trespass ! said she , with a smile . 
People don't trespass on their own land But it is not my land , said I. It is your father's for the time being . 
I have no right here whatever . 
I do not know how to explain , but you must think it very strange to find me here when you supposed I had started for Europe . 
Oh ! I knew you had not started for Europe , said she , because I have seen you working in the grounds Seen me ! I interrupted . 
Is it possible ? Oh , yes , said she . 
, and when he came that afternoon to play tennis I found that he had been away for two days , and could not have planted the pinks . 
So I simply got up early one morning and looked out , and there I saw you , with your coat off , working just as hard as ever you could . 
I stepped back , my mind for a moment a perfect blank . 
What could you have thought of me ? I exclaimed presently . 
Really , at first I did not know what to think , said she . 
If you think the grounds need more attention , I will persuade my father to hire another man , now and then , to work about the place . 
Really , Mr. Ripley , you ought not to have to I was humbled , abashed . 
She had seen me at my morning devotions , and this was the way she interpreted them . 
I could not let her go without telling her something . 
Her present opinion of me must not rest in her mind another minute . 
I must rush away speechless and never see her again , or I must tell her all . 
I came a little nearer to her . 
Miss Vincent , said I , you do not understand at all why I am here why I have been here so much why I did not go to Europe . 
The truth is , I could not leave . 
It would be very hard for us to go away now , especially for father and me , for we have grown to love this place so much . 
But if you want us to leave , I dare say I want you to leave ! I exclaimed . 
Now , I have a plan which I think will work splendidly . 
We are a very small family . 
The tower and the room under it ! For me ! What a contemptibly little minded and insignificant person she must think me . 
The words with which I strove to tell her that I wished to live here as lord , with her as my queen , would not come . 
She looked at me for a moment as I stood on the brink of saying something but not saying it , and then she turned suddenly toward the hammock . 
Did you see anything of a fan I left here ? she said . 
I know I left it here , but when I came yesterday it was gone . 
Perhaps you may have noticed it somewhere Now , the morning before , I had taken that fan home with me . 
It was an awkward thing to carry , but I had concealed it under my coat . 
As she stood waiting for my answer there was a light in her eye which illuminated my perceptions . 
Did you see me take that fan ? I asked . 
I did , said she . 
You have strange ways , she said presently , blushing and gently pressing back my arm . 
I haven't told you a thing . 
Let us tell each other everything now , I cried , and we seated ourselves in the hammock . 
It was a quarter of an hour later and we were still sitting together in the hammock . 
And when it came to that fan business I saw plainly that you must either immediately start for Europe or Or what ? I interrupted . 
Or go to my father and regularly engage yourself as a I do not know whether she was going to say gardener or not , but it did not matter . 
It was perhaps twenty minutes later , and we were standing together at the edge of the woods . 
She wanted me to come to the house to take breakfast with them . 
Oh , I could not do that ! I said . 
They would be so surprised . 
I should have so much to explain before I could even begin to state my case . 
Well , then , explain , said she . 
You will find father on the front piazza . 
He is always there before breakfast , and there is plenty of time . 
After all that has been said here , I cannot go to breakfast and look commonplace while you run away . 
But suppose your father objects ? said I. Well , then you will have to go back and take breakfast with your miller , said she . 
I never saw a family so little affected by surprises as those Vincents . 
When I appeared on the front piazza the old gentleman did not jump . 
It seemed strange to Mrs. Vincent and myself , he said , when we first noticed your extraordinary attachment for our daughter , but , after all , it was natural enough . 
Noticed it ! I exclaimed . 
When did you do that ? Very soon , he said . 
Later , when Mr. Barker came and told me that you had not gone to Europe , and were living with a miller not far from here Barker ! I cried . 
The scoundrel ! You are mistaken , sir , said Mr. Vincent . 
I determined , however , that if you continued your morning visits I should take an early opportunity of accosting you and asking an explanation . 
And you never mentioned anything of this to your daughter ? said I. Oh , no , he answered . 
We carefully kept everything from her . 
But , my dear sir , said I , rising , you have given me no answer . 
You have not told me whether or not you will accept me as a son in law . 
Are you going to stay to breakfast ? she asked . 
Because , if you are , it is ready . 
Mr. and Mrs. Vincent expect to spend the next summer here and take care of the house while we are travelling . 
By the way , when I went back to my lodging on that eventful day , the miller's wife met me at the door . 
Do you know who I am ? I exclaimed . 
Oh , yes , sir , she said . 
We did not at first , but when everybody began to talk about it we couldn't help knowin' it . 
I could not let the good woman hold this opinion of my tenants , and I briefly told her the truth . 
She looked at me with moist admiration in her eyes . 
I am glad to hear that , sir , said she . 
I like it very much . 
But if I was you I wouldn't be in a hurry to tell my husband and the people in the neighborhood about it . 
THE STAYING POWER OF SIR ROHAN During the winter in which I reached my twenty fifth year I lived with my mother's brother , Dr . 
Alfred Morris , in Warburton , a small country town , and I was there beginning the practice of medicine . 
I had gladly accepted the invitation , and on the day before Christmas I went to the livery stable in the village to hire a horse and sleigh for the trip . 
At the stable I met Uncle Beamish , who had also come to hire a conveyance . 
He was a good man , rather illiterate , but very shrewd . 
Generous in good works , I do not think he was fond of giving away money , but his services were at the call of all who needed them . 
That will suit me , said Uncle Beamish . 
There couldn't have been a better fit if I had been measured for it . 
Less than half a mile after you turn into the turnpike , you pass my sister's house . 
Then you can drop me and go on to the Collingwoods' , which I should say isn't more than three miles further . 
The arrangement was made , a horse and sleigh ordered , and early in the afternoon we started from Warburton . 
The sleighing was good , but the same could not be said of the horse . 
He was a big roan , powerful and steady , but entirely too deliberate in action . 
Uncle Beamish , however , was quite satisfied with him . 
What you want when you are goin' to take a journey with a horse , said he , is stayin' power . 
Your fast trotter is all very well for a mile or two , but if I have got to go into the country in winter , give me a horse like this . 
I did not agree with him , but we jogged along quite pleasantly until the afternoon grew prematurely dark and it began to snow . 
Now , said I , giving the roan a useless cut , what we ought to have is a fast horse , so that we may get there before there is a storm . 
No , doctor , you're wrong , said Uncle Beamish . 
What we want is a strong horse that will take us there whether it storms or not , and we have got him . 
I never knew snow to fall with such violence . 
The roadway in front of us , as far as I could see it , was soon one unbroken stretch of white from fence to fence . 
In about half an hour the wind lulled a little and I could get a better view of our surroundings , although I could not see very far through the swiftly descending snow . 
Crocker's is ruther more than half way to the pike . 
Oh , I do not want to stop anywhere , I replied quickly . 
We could hardly miss his house , it is so close to the road . 
This horse is slow , but I tell you one thing , doctor , he's improvin' . 
He is goin' better than he did . 
That's the way with this kind . 
It takes them a good while to get warmed up , but they keep on gettin' fresher instead of tireder . 
We must have passed it , he said , when the snow was so blindin' . 
That's the sort of beast to have , exclaimed Uncle Beamish , spluttering as the snow blew in his mouth . 
He is gettin' his spirits up just when they are most wanted . 
We must have passed Crocker's a good while ago , and it can't be long before we get to the pike . 
And it's time we was there , for it's darkenin' . 
On and on we went , but still we did not reach the pike . 
When we get to the pike , said Uncle Beamish , you can't miss it , for this road doesn't cross it . 
All you've got to do is to turn to the left , and in ten minutes you will see the lights in my sister's house . 
And I'll tell you , doctor , if you would like to stop there for the night , she'd be mighty glad to have you . 
Much obliged , replied I , but I shall go on . 
It's not late yet , and I can reach the Collingwoods' in good time . 
We now drove on in silence , our horse actually arching his neck as he thumped through the snow . 
Drifts had begun to form across the road , but through these he bravely plunged . 
Stayin' power is what we want , doctor ! exclaimed Uncle Beamish . 
It grew darker and darker , but at last we saw , not far in front of us , a light . 
That beats me , said Uncle Beamish . 
I don't remember no other house so near the road . 
It can't be we ain't passed Crocker's yit ! If we ain't got no further than that , I'm in favor of stoppin' . 
I did not give it up so easily . 
I greatly wished to reach my destination that night . 
But there were three wills in the party , and one of them belonged to the horse . 
Hello ! exclaimed Uncle Beamish , peering forward , here's a barn door . 
And he immediately began to throw off the far robe that covered our knees . 
What are you going to do ? I asked . 
I'm goin' to open the barn door and let the horse go in , said he . 
He seems to want to . 
I don't know whether this is Crocker's barn or not . 
It don't look like it , but I may be mistaken . 
Anyway , we will let the horse in , and then go to the house . 
This ain't no night to be travellin' any further , doctor , and that is the long and the short of it . 
Instantly the horse entered the dark barn , fortunately finding nothing in his way . 
I carried a pocket lantern , and quickly lighted it . 
By George ! said Uncle Beamish , as I held up the lantern , this ain't much of a barn it's no more than a wagon house . 
It ain't Crocker's but no matter we'll go up to the house . 
Here is a hitchin' rope . 
Mounting a little portico , we reached a door , and were about to knock when it was opened for us . 
A woman , plainly a servant , stood in a kitchen , light and warm . 
Come right in , she said . 
Just wait here for a minute . 
I'm going up to tell her . 
I don't know this place , said Uncle Beamish , as we stood by the kitchen stove , but I expect it belongs to a widow woman . 
What makes you think that ? I asked . 
'Cause she said she was goin' to tell HER . 
If there had been a man in the house , she would have gone to tell HIM . 
In a few moments the woman returned . 
She says you are to take off your wet things and then go into the sitting room . 
She'll be down in a minute . 
I looked at Uncle Beamish , thinking it was his right to make explanations , but , giving me a little wink , he began to take off his overcoat . 
It was plain to perceive that Uncle Beamish desired to assume that a place of refuge would be offered us . 
It's an awful bad night , he said to the woman , as he sat down to take off his arctic overshoes . 
It's all that , said she . 
You may hang your coats over them chairs . 
It won't matter if they do drip on this bare floor . 
Now , then , come right into the sitting room . 
In spite of my disappointment , I was glad to be in a warm house , and hoped we might be able to stay there . 
I could hear the storm beating furiously against the window panes behind the drawn shades . 
There was a stove in the sitting room , and a large lamp . 
Sit down , said the woman . 
She will be here in a minute . 
I have the same idea , I replied , and we must explain as soon as possible . 
Of course we will do that , said he , but I can tell you one thing whoever is expected ain't comin' , for he can't get here . 
But we've got to stay here tonight , no matter who comes or doesn't come , and we've got to be keerful in speakin' to the woman of the house . 
You had better leave the explainin' business to me . 
I was about to reply that I was more than willing to do so when the door opened and a person entered evidently the mistress of the house . 
She was tall and thin , past middle age , and plainly dressed . 
She made but a step into the room , and stood holding the door . 
We both rose from our chairs . 
You can sit down again , she said sharply to me . 
Now , sir , she continued , turning to Uncle Beamish , please come with me . 
Uncle Beamish gave a glance of surprise at me , but he immediately followed the old lady out of the room , and the door was closed behind them . 
Suddenly he entered the room and closed the door . 
Here's a go ! said he , slapping his leg , but very gently . 
We're mistook the worst kind . 
Just the minute she got me outside that door she began pitchin' into you . 
I suppose that's young Dr . 
I was took back dreadful , for the state of the case came to me like a flash . 
Your uncle had been sent for , and I was mistook for him . 
Now , what to say was a puzzle to me , and I began to think pretty fast . 
It was an awkward business to have to explain things to that sharp set old woman . 
The fact is , I didn't know how to begin , and was a good deal afraid , besides , but she didn't give me no time for considerin' . 
I think it's her brain , said she , but perhaps you'll know better . 
Catherine , uncover your head ! And with that the patient turned over a little and uncovered her head , which she had had the sheet over . 
It was a young woman , and she gave me a good look , but she didn't say nothin' . 
Now I WAS in a state of mind . 
Of course you must have been , I answered . 
Why didn't you tell her that you were not a doctor , but that I was . 
It would have been easy enough to explain matters . 
She might have thought my uncle could not come and he had sent me , and that you had come along for company . 
The patient ought to be attended to without delay . 
She's got to be attended to , said Uncle Beamish , or else there will be a row and we'll have to travel storm or no storm . 
But I've got no more time for talkin' . 
I came down here on business . 
When the old lady said , Catherine , hold out your hand ! and she held it out , I had nothin' to do but step up and feel her pulse . 
I know how to do that , for I have done a lot of nussin' in my life . 
And then it seemed nat'ral to ask her to put out her tongue , and when she did it I gave a look at it and nodded my head . 
Do you think it is her brain ? said the old woman , half whisperin' . 
Can't say anything about that yit , said I. I must go down stairs and get the medicine case . 
The fust thing to do is to give her a draught , and I will bring it up to her as soon as it is mixed . 
You have got a pocket medicine case with you , haven't you ? Oh , yes , said I. It is in my overcoat . 
I knowed it , said Uncle Beamish . 
An old doctor might go visitin' without his medicine case , but a young one would be sure to take it along , no matter where he was goin' . 
Now you get it , please , quick . 
And then , when I take it up to her , you tell me what symptoms to look for . 
I can do it I have spent nights lookin' for symptoms . 
She may be twenty , more or less , and any mild stuff will do to begin with . 
I will give her some sweet spirits of nitre , said I , taking out a little vial . 
And what am I to look for ? said he . 
In the first place , said I , producing a clinical thermometer , you must take her temperature . 
You know how to do that ? Oh , yes , said he . 
I have done it hundreds of times . 
She must hold it in her mouth five minutes . 
You might ask the old lady , and besides , you may be able to judge for yourself . 
I can do that , said he . 
I have seen lots of it . 
Then , again , said I , you must observe whether or not her pupils are dilated . 
You might also inquire whether there had been any partial paralysis or numbness in any part of the body . 
These things must be looked for in brain trouble . 
Give me that thermometer and the tumbler , and when I come down again , I reckon you can fit her out with a prescription just as good as anybody . 
He hurried away , and I sat down to consider . 
I was full of ambition , full of enthusiasm for the practice of my profession . 
So far , in the cases I had undertaken , a consulting brother had always called himself in that is , I had practised in hospitals or with my uncle . 
Perhaps it might be found necessary , notwithstanding all that had been said against me , that I should go up to take charge of this case . 
I wished I had not forgotten to ask the old man how he had found the tongue and pulse . 
In less than a quarter of an hour Uncle Beamish returned . 
Well , said I , quickly , what are the symptoms ? I'll give them to you , said he , taking his seat . 
I'm not in such a hurry now , because I told the old woman I would like to wait a little and see how that fust medicine acted . 
The patient spoke to me this time . 
But how about the symptoms ? said I , impatiently . 
Well , he answered , in the fust place her temperature is ninety eight and a half , and that's about nat'ral , I take it . 
Yes , I said , but you didn't tell me about her tongue and pulse . 
There wasn't nothin' remarkable about them , said he . 
All of which means , I remarked , that there is no fever . 
But that is not at all a necessary accompaniment of brain derangements . 
How about the dilatation of her pupils ? There isn't none , said Uncle Beamish they are ruther squinched up , if anything . 
And as to delirium , I couldn't see no signs of it , and when I asked the old lady about the numbness , she said she didn't believe there had been any . 
No tendency to shiver , no disposition to stretch ? No , said the old man , no chance for quinine . 
The trouble is , said I , standing before the stove and fixing my mind upon the case with earnest intensity , that there are so few symptoms in brain derangement . 
If I could only get hold of something tangible If I was you , interrupted Uncle Beamish , I wouldn't try to get hold of nothin' . 
I would just give her somethin' to keep her where she is till mornin' . 
If you can do that , I'll guarantee that any good doctor can take her up and go on with her to morrow . 
Without noticing the implication contained in these remarks , I continued my consideration of the case . 
If I could get a drop of her blood , said I. No , no ! exclaimed Uncle Beamish , I'm not goin' to do anything of that sort . 
What in the name of common sense would you do with her blood ? I would examine it microscopically , I said . 
I might find out all I want to know . 
Uncle Beamish did not sympathize with this method of diagnosis . 
If you did find out there was the wrong kind of germs , you couldn't do anything with them to night , and it would just worry you , said the old man . 
I believe that nature will get along fust rate without any help , at least till mornin' . 
But you've got to give her some medicine not so much for her good as for our good . 
If she's not treated we're bounced . 
Can't you give her somethin' that would do anybody good , no matter what's the matter with 'em ? If it was the spring of the year I would say sarsaparilla . 
If you could mix her up somethin' and put into it some of them benevolent microbes the doctors talk about , it would be a good deed to do to anybody . 
The benign bacilli , said I. Unfortunately I haven't any of them with me . 
And if you had , he remarked , I'd be in favor of givin' 'em to the old woman . 
I take it they would do , her more good than anybody else . 
The fact is , you know , it's her we're dosin' . 
Not at all , said I , speaking a little severely . 
I am trying to do my very best for the patient , but I fear I cannot do it without seeing her . 
Don't you think that if you told the old lady how absolutely necessary Don't say anything more about that ! exclaimed Uncle Beamish . 
What can she know of me ? I asked indignantly . 
Give it up , said he . 
But that ain't the p'int . 
Nonsense , nonsense , said I , my eyes earnestly fixed upon my open medical case . 
I suppose a mustard plaster on the back of her neck Wouldn't do at all , I interrupted . 
Wait a minute , now yes I know what I will do I will give her sodium bromide ten grains . 
Which will hit if it's a deer and miss if it's a calf' as the hunter said ? inquired Uncle Beamish . 
It will certainly not injure her , said I , and I am quite sure it will be a positive advantage . 
If there has been cerebral disturbance , which has subsided temporarily , it will assist her to tide over the interim before its recurrence . 
All right , said Uncle Beamish , give it to me , and I'll be off . 
It's time I showed up ag'in . 
He did not stay up stairs very long this time . 
But the patient took the medicine as mild as a lamb . 
That is very good , said I. It may be that she appreciates the seriousness of her ewe better than we do . 
I should say she wants to git well , he replied . 
She looks like that sort of a person to me . 
At this moment the door opened and the servant woman came in . 
She says you are to have supper , and it will be ready in about half an hour . 
One of you had better go out and attend to your horse , for the man is not coming back to night . 
I will go to the barn , said I , rising . 
Uncle Beamish also rose and said he would go with me . 
I guess you can find some hay and oats , said the woman , as we were putting on our coats and overshoes in the kitchen , and here's a lantern . 
We don't keep no horse now , but there's feed left . 
As we pushed through the deep snow into the barn , Uncle Beamish said I've been tryin' my best to think where we are without askin' any questions , and I'm dead beat . 
I don't remember no such house as this on the road . 
Perhaps we got off the road , said I. That may be , said he , as we entered the barn . 
Perhaps we got on one of them in all that darkness and perplexin' whiteness , when it wasn't easy to see whether we were keepin' a straight road or not . 
The horse neighed as we approached with a light . 
That isn't unlikely , said Uncle Beamish , and that's the reason we did not pass Crocker's . 
But here we are , wherever it is , and here we've got to stay till mornin' . 
We'll excuse her , said Uncle Beamish , with an alacrity of expression that might have caused suspicion . 
We had a good supper , and were then shown a room on the first floor on the other side of the hall , where the servant said we were to sleep . 
This time he stayed up stairs but a few minutes . 
The next morning , and very early in the morning , I was awaked by Uncle Beamish , who stood at my side . 
Look here , said he , I've been outside . 
It's stopped snowin' and it's clearin' off . 
I've been to the barn and I've fed the horse , and I tell you what I'm in favor of doin' . 
There's nobody up yit , and I don't want to stay here and make no explanations to that old woman . 
I don't fancy gittin' into rows on Christmas mornin' . 
My sister's doctor don't live fur away from her , and I know she will be willin' to send for him . 
Then our duty will be done , and what the old woman thinks of us won't make no , difference to nobody . 
That plan suits me , said I , rising . 
I don't want to stay here , and as I am not to be allowed to see the patient , there is no reason why I should stay . 
What we have done will more than pay for our supper and lodgings , so that our consciences are clear . 
But you must write a note , said Uncle Beamish . 
Got any paper ? I tore a leaf from my note book , and went to the window , where it was barely light enough for me to see how to write . 
Make it short , said the old man . 
I'm awful fidgety to git off . 
I made it very short , and then , valises in hand , we quietly took our way to the kitchen . 
How this floor does creak ! said Uncle Beamish . 
Git on your overcoat and shoes as quick as you can , and we'll leave the note on this table . 
By George ! whispered the old man , it's the patient ! The figure advanced directly toward me . 
This was the human being whose expected presence at the Collingwood mansion was taking me there to spend Christmas . 
Kitty ! I exclaimed Miss Burroughs , I mean , what is the meaning of this ? Don't ask me for any meanings now , she said . 
I want you and your uncle to take me to the Collingwoods' . 
I suppose you are on your way there , for they wrote you were coming . 
And oh ! let us be quick , for I'm afraid Jane will come down , and she will be sure to wake up aunty . 
I saw one of you go out to the barn , and knew you intended to leave , so I got ready just as fast as I could . 
But I must leave some word for aunty . 
I have written a note , said I. But are you well enough to travel ? Just let me add a line to it , said she . 
I am as well as I ever was . 
I gave her a pencil , and she hurriedly wrote something on the paper which I had left on the kitchen table . 
Then , quickly glancing around , she picked up a large carving fork , and sticking it through the paper into the soft wood of the table , she left it standing there . 
Now it won't blow away when we open the door , she whispered . 
You cannot go out to the barn , I said we will bring up the sleigh . 
Oh , no , no , no , she answered , I must not wait here . 
If I once get out of the house I shall feel safe . 
Of course I shall go anyway , but I don't want any quarrelling on this Christmas morning . 
I'm with you there , said Uncle Beamish , approvingly . 
Doctor , we can take her to the barn without her touching the snow . 
Let her sit in this arm chair , and we can carry her between us . 
In half a minute the kitchen door was softly closed behind us , and we were carrying Miss Burroughs to the barn . 
My soul was in a wild tumult . 
Dozens of questions were on my tongue , but I had no chance to ask any of them . 
Uncle Beamish and I returned to the porch for the valises , and then , closing the back door , we rapidly began to make preparations for leaving . 
Whatever she wants to do , I answered , is perfectly right . 
You may trust to that . 
I do not understand the matter any more than you do , but I know she is expected at the Collingwoods' , and wants to go there . 
Very good , said Uncle Beamish . 
We'll git away fust and ask explanations afterwards . 
Glover , said Miss Burroughs , as we led the horse into the wagon house , don't put the bells on him . 
Stuff them gently under the seat as softly as you can . 
But how are we all to go away ? I have been looking at that sleigh , and it is intended only for two . 
It's rather late to think of that , miss , said Uncle Beamish , but there's one thing that's certain . 
We're both very polite to ladies , but neither of us is willin' to be left behind on this trip . 
But it's a good sized sleigh , and we'll all pack in , well enough . 
You and me can sit on the seat , and the doctor can stand up in front of us and drive . 
In old times it was considered the right thing for the driver of the sleigh to stand up and do his drivin' . 
It can't be far from my sister's , and we'll all stop there and have breakfast . 
Then you two can leave me and go on . 
She'll be as glad to see any friends of mine as if they were her own . 
And she'll be pretty sure , on a mornin' like this , to have buckwheat cakes and sausages . 
Miss Burroughs looked at the old man with a puzzled air , but she asked him no questions . 
How are you going to keep yourself warm , Dr . 
Oh , this long ulster will be enough for me , I replied , and as I shall stand up , I could not use a robe , if we had another . 
You'd better be keerful , doctor , said Uncle Beamish . 
You don't want to git rheumatism in your j'ints on this Christmas mornin' . 
Here's this horse blanket that we are settin' on . 
We don't need it , and you'd better wrap it round you , after you git in , to keep your legs warm . 
Oh , do ! said Miss Burroughs . 
It may look funny , but we will not meet anybody so early as this . 
All right ! said I , and now we are ready to start . 
I slid back the barn door and then led the horse outside . 
Closing the door , and making as little noise as possible in doing it , I got into the sleigh , finding plenty of room to stand up in front of my companions . 
It is impossible to describe the exhilaration that pervaded me as she performed this kindly office . 
After thanking her warmly , I took the reins and we started . 
It is so lucky , whispered Miss Burroughs , that I happened to think about the bells . 
We don't make any noise at all . 
The slowly uplifted hoofs of the horse descended quietly into the soft snow , and the sleigh runners slipped along without a sound . 
Drive straight for the gate , doctor , whispered Uncle Beamish . 
It don't matter nothin' about goin' over flower beds and grass plats in such weather . 
I followed his advice , for no roadway could be seen . 
But we had gone but a short distance when the horse suddenly stopped . 
What's the matter ? asked Miss Burroughs , in a low voice . 
Is it too deep for him ? We're in a drift , said Uncle Beamish . 
But it's not too deep . 
Make him go ahead , doctor . 
I clicked gently and tapped the horse with the whip , but he did not move . 
What a dreadful thing , whispered Miss Burroughs , leaning forward , for him to stop so near the house ! Dr . 
Glover , what does this mean ? And , as she spoke , she half rose behind me . 
Where did Sir Rohan come from ? Who's he ? asked Uncle Beamish , quickly . 
That horse , she answered . 
She sold him a few days ago . 
By George ! ejaculated Uncle Beamish , unconsciously raising his voice a little . 
Wilson bought him , and his bringin' us here is as plain as A B C. And now he don't want to leave home . 
But he has got to do it , said I , jerking the horse's head to one side and giving him a cut with the whip . 
Don't whip him , whispered Miss Burroughs it always makes him more stubborn . 
How glad I am I thought of the bells ! The only way to get him to go is to mollify him . 
But how is that to be done ? I asked anxiously . 
You must give him sugar and pat his neck . 
If I had some sugar and could get out But you haven't it , and you can't git out , said Uncle Beamish . 
Try him again doctor ! I jerked the reins impatiently . 
Go along ! said I. But he did not go along . 
Haven't you got somethin' in your medicine case you could mollify him with ? said Uncle Beamish . 
Somethin' sweet that he might like ? For an instant I caught at this absurd suggestion , and my mind ran over the contents of my little bottles . 
If I had known his character , some sodium bromide in his morning feed might , by this time , have mollified his obstinacy . 
If I could be free of this blanket , said I , fumbling at the pin behind me , I would get out and lead him into the road . 
You could not do it , said Miss Burroughs . 
You might pull his head off , but he wouldn't move . 
I have seen him tried . 
You seem to be stuck , said she , sarcastically . 
You are worse stuck than the fork was in my kitchen table . 
I do not know how Miss Burroughs looked or felt , or what was the appearance of Uncle Beamish , but I know I must have been very red in the face . 
I gave the horse a powerful crack and shouted to him to go on . 
There was no need for low speaking now . 
You needn't be cruel to dumb animals , said the old lady , and you can't budge him . 
He never did like snow , especially in going away from home . 
You cut a powerful queer figure , young man , with that horse blanket around you . 
You don't look much like a practising physician . 
Miss Burroughs , I exclaimed , please take that pin out of this blanket . 
If I can get at his head I know I can pull him around and make him go . 
But she did not seem to hear me . 
Aunty , she cried , it's a shame to stand there and make fun of us . 
We have got a perfect right to go away if we want to , and we ought not to be laughed at . 
The old lady paid no attention to this remark . 
And there's that false doctor , she said . 
I wonder how he feels just now . 
False doctor ! exclaimed Miss Burroughs . 
Young lady , said Uncle Beamish , I'm no false doctor . 
I intended to tell you all about it as soon as I got a chance , but I haven't had one . 
To this challenge the figure at the window made no answer . 
I had never asked Kitty to marry me . 
I loved her with all my heart and soul , and I hoped , almost believed , that she loved me . 
It had been my intention , when we should be left together in the sleigh this morning , after dropping Uncle Beamish at his sister's house , to ask her to marry me . 
The old woman's question pierced me as if it had been a flash of lightning coming through the frosty air of a winter morning . 
I dropped the useless reins and turned . 
She made a movement as if she was about to jump out of the sleigh and flee . 
Then , turning toward us , he took off his hat . 
By George ! said he , you're a pair of trumps . 
I never did see any human bein's step up to the mark more prompt . 
And now the best thing that you can do is to invite us all in to have breakfast . 
You'll have to come in , said she , or else stay out there and freeze to death , for that horse isn't going to take you away . 
And with that she shut down the window . 
That's talkin' , said Uncle Beamish . 
Sit still , doctor , and I'll lead him around to the back door . 
I guess he'll move quick enough when you want him to turn back . 
Without the slightest objection Sir Rohan permitted himself to be turned back and led up to the kitchen porch . 
Now you two sparklin' angels get out , said Uncle Beamish , and go in . 
I'll attend to the horse . 
Jane , with a broad grin on her face , opened the kitchen door . 
Merry Christmas to you both ! said she . 
Merry Christmas ! we cried , and each of us shook her by the hand . 
Go in the sitting room and get warm , said Jane . 
She'll be down pretty soon . 
I do not know how long we were together in that sitting room . 
We had thousands of things to say , and we said most of them . 
Among other things , we managed to get in some explanations of the occurrences of the previous night . 
Kitty told her tale briefly . 
She and her aunt , to whom she was making a visit , and who wanted her to make her house her home , had had a quarrel two days before . 
Kitty was wild to go to the Collingwoods' , and the old lady , who , for some reason , hated the family , was determined she should not go . 
She would not eat or drink , she would not speak , and she covered up her head . 
After a day and a night , said Kitty , aunty got dreadfully frightened and thought something was the matter with my brain . 
Her family are awfully anxious about their brains . 
I knew she had sent for the doctor and I was glad of it , for I thought he would help me . 
I must say I was surprised when I first saw that Mr. Beamish , for I thought he was Dr . 
Now tell me about your coming here . 
Nonsense ! said Kitty , with a blush , and at that moment Uncle Beamish knocked at the door . 
I thought I'd just step in and tell you , said he , that breakfast will be comin' along in a minute . 
I found they were goin' to have buckwheat cakes , anyway , and I prevailed on Jane to put sausages in the bill of fare . 
Merry Christmas to you both ! I would like to say more , but here comes the old lady and Jane . 
The breakfast was a strange meal , but a very happy one . 
The old lady was very dignified . 
She made no allusion to Christmas or to what had happened , but talked to Uncle Beamish about people in Warburton . 
I have a practical mind , and , in spite of the present joy , I could not help feeling a little anxiety about what was to be done when breakfast was over . 
But just as we were about to rise from the table we were all startled by a great jingle of sleigh bells outside . 
The old lady arose and stopped to the window . 
There ! said she , turning toward us . 
Here's a pretty kettle of fish ! There's a two horse sleigh outside , with a man driving , and a gentleman in the back seat who I am sure is Dr . 
Morris , and he has come all the way on this bitter cold morning to see the patient I sent for him to come to . 
Now , who is going to tell him he has come on a fool's errand ? Fool's errand ! I cried . 
Every one of you wait in here and I'll go out and tell him . 
When I dashed out of doors and stood by the side of my uncle's sleigh , he was truly an amazed man . 
The story was a much longer one than I expected it to be , and John must have driven those horses backward and forward for half an hour . 
If I like her , I will take you all on to the Collingwoods' , and drop Uncle Beamish at his sister's house . 
I'll tell you what it is , young doctor , said Uncle Beamish , at parting , you ought to buy that big roan horse . 
He has been a regular guardian angel to us this Christmas . 
Oh , that would never do at all , cried Kitty . 
His patients would all die before he got there . 
That is , if they had anything the matter with them , added my uncle . 
I assured her that it would be no trouble at all , and putting the piece of calico in my pocket , I took the train for the city . 
At lunch time I stopped in at a large dry goods store to attend to my wife's commission . 
This way , sir , and he led me up the store . 
Miss Stone , said he to a young lady , show this gentleman some red calico . 
What shade do you want ! asked Miss Stone . 
I showed her the little piece of calico that my wife had given me . 
She looked at it and handed it back to me . 
Then she took down a great roll of red calico and spread it out on the counter . 
Why , that isn't the shade ! said I. No , not exactly , said she . 
But it is prettier than your sample . 
That may be , said I. But , you see , I want to match this piece . 
There is something already in my house , made of this kind of calico , which needs to be made larger , or mended , or something . 
I want some calico of the same shade . 
The girl made no answer , but took down another roll . 
That's the shade , said she . 
Yes , I replied , but it's striped . 
Stripes are more worn than anything else in calicoes , said she . 
But this isn't to be worn . 
It's for furniture , I think . 
At any rate , I want perfectly plain stuff , to match something already in use . 
Well , I don't think you can find it perfectly plain , unless you get Turkey red . 
What is Turkey red ? I asked . 
Turkey red is perfectly plain in calicoes , she answered . 
Well , let me see some . 
We haven't any Turkey red calico left , she said , but we have some very nice plain calicoes in other colors . 
I don't want any other color . 
I want stuff to match this . 
It's hard to match cheap calico like that , she said , and so I left her . 
I next went into a store a few doors farther up Broadway . 
When I entered I approached the floorwalker , and handing him my sample , said Have you any calico like this ? Yes , sir , said he . 
Third counter to the right . 
I went to the third counter to the right , and showed my sample to the salesman in attendance there . 
He looked at it on both sides . 
Then he said We haven't any of this . 
The floorwalker said you had , said I. We had it , but we're out of it now . 
You'll get that goods at an upholsterers . 
I went across the street to an upholsterer's . 
Have you any stuff like this ? I asked . 
No , said the salesman , we haven't . 
Is it for furniture ? Yes , I replied . 
Then Turkey red is what you want . 
Is Turkey red just like this ? I asked . 
No , said he , but it's much better . 
That makes no difference to me , I replied . 
I want something just like this . 
But they don't use that for furniture , he said . 
I should think people could use anything they wanted for furniture , I remarked , somewhat sharply . 
They can , but they don't , he said quite calmly . 
They don't use red like that . 
I said no more , but left . 
The next place I visited was a very large dry goods store . 
Of the first salesman I saw I inquired if they kept red calico like my sample . 
You'll find that on the second story , said he . 
There I asked a man Where shall I find red calico ? In the far room to the left , and he pointed to a distant corner . 
I walked through the crowds of purchasers and salespeople , around the counters and tables filled with goods , to the far room to the left . 
When I got there I asked for red calico . 
The second counter down this side , said the man . 
I went there and produced my sample . 
Calicoes down stairs , said the man . 
They told me they were up here , I said . 
You'll find them downstairs at the back of the store , over on that side . 
I went down stairs to the back of the store . 
Where can I find red calico like this ? I asked . 
Next counter but one , said the man addressed , walking with me in the direction pointed out . 
Dunn , show red calicoes . 
Mr. Dunn took my sample and looked at it . 
We haven't this shade in that quality of goods , he said . 
Well , have you it in any quality of goods ? I asked . 
He took down a piece of calico , and unrolled a yard or two of it . 
That's not this shade , I said . 
The goods is finer and the color's better . 
I want it to match this , I said . 
I thought you weren't particular about the match , said the salesman . 
You said you didn't care for the quality of the goods , and you know you can't match without you take into consideration quality and color both . 
If you want that quality of goods in red , you ought to get Turkey red . 
I did not think it necessary to answer this remark , but said Then you've got nothing to match this ? No , sir . 
But perhaps they may have it in the upholstery department , in the sixth story . 
I got into the elevator and went up to the top of the house . 
Have you any red stuff like this ? I said to a young man . 
Red stuff ? Upholstery department other end of this floor . 
I went to the other end of the floor . 
I want some red calico , I said to a man . 
Furniture goods ? he asked . 
Yes , said I. Fourth counter to the left . 
I went to the fourth counter to the left , and showed my sample to a salesman . 
He looked at it , and said You'll get this down on the first floor calico department . 
I turned on my heel , descended in the elevator , and went out on Broadway . 
I was thoroughly sick of red calico . 
But I determined to make one more trial . 
My wife had bought her red calico not long before , and there must be some to be had somewhere . 
I ought to have asked her where she bought it , but I thought a simple little thing like that could be procured anywhere . 
I went into another large dry goods store . 
As I entered the door a sudden tremor seized me . 
I could not bear to take out that piece of red calico . 
If I had had any other kind of a rag about me a pen wiper or anything of the sort I think I would have asked them if they could match that . 
But I stepped up to a young woman and presented my sample , with the usual question . 
Back room , counter on the left , she said . 
Have you any red calico like this ? I asked of the lady behind the counter . 
No , sir , she said , but we have it in Turkey red . 
Turkey red again ! I surrendered . 
All right , I said . 
How much , sir ? she asked . 
I don't know say five yards . 
The lady looked at me rather strangely , but measured off five yards of Turkey red calico . 
Then she rapped on the counter and called out , Cash ! A little girl , with yellow hair in two long plaits , came slowly up . 
She then copied all this in a little book which she kept by her . 
Then she handed the slip of paper , the money , and the Turkey red to the yellow haired girl . 
This young girl copied the slip in a little book she carried , and then she went away with the calico , the paper slip , and the money . 
I had time for but very little work at the office that afternoon , and when I reached home I handed the package of calico to my wife . 
She unrolled it and exclaimed Why , this doesn't match the piece I gave you ! Match it ! I cried . 
Oh no ! it doesn't match it . 
You didn't want that matched . 
What you wanted was Turkey red third counter to the left . 
I mean , Turkey red is what they use ! My wife looked at me in amazement , and then I detailed to her my troubles . 
Well , said she , this Turkey red is a great deal prettier than what I had , and you've bought so much of it that I needn't use the other at all . 
I wish I had thought of Turkey red before . 
But it's no use bein' in a hurry fur either of 'em , fur sometimes they come afore you want 'em , anyway . 
That afternoon he had taken young Mr. Nugent for a brief excursion on that portion of the Atlantic Ocean which sends its breakers up on the beach of Sandport . 
Mr. Nugent , to whom nautical experiences were as new as the very nautical suit of blue flannel which he wore , rather liked the calm . 
It was such a relief to the monotony of rolling waves . 
It come wunst on me when things couldn't a' looked more onready fur it , said Silas . 
How was that ? asked Mr. Nugent , settling himself a little more comfortably on the hard thwart . 
If it's a story , let's have it . 
This is a good time to spin a yarn . 
Very well , said old Silas . 
It blew away the storm sails . 
It blew away every yard , spar , shroud , an' every strand o' riggin' , an' snapped the masts off close to the deck . 
It blew away all the boats . 
It blew away the cook's caboose , an' everythin' else on deck . 
It blew off the hatches , an' sent 'em spinnin' in the air about a mile to leeward . 
An' afore it got through , it washed away the cap'n an' all the crew 'cept me an' two others . 
These was Tom Simmons , the second mate , an' Andy Boyle , a chap from the Adirondack Mount'ins , who'd never been to sea afore . 
But he had hands eleven inches long , an' that give him a grip which no typhoon could git the better of . 
He was a good natered feller , though , an' never got riled when I'd tell him to clap his flour scoops onter a halyard . 
We was all soaked , an' washed , an' beat , an' battered . 
We held on some way or other till the wind blowed itself out , an' then we got on our legs an' began to look about us to see how things stood . 
We hadn't had a thing to eat or drink durin' that whole blow , an' we was pretty ravenous . 
We couldn't go below much , fur there was a pretty good swell on the sea , an' things was floatin' about so's to make it dangerous . 
But we fished out a piece of canvas , which we rigged up ag'in' the stump of the mainmast so that we could have somethin' that we could sit down an' grumble under . 
All was shiftin' , an' bumpin' , an' bangin' every time the vessel rolled . 
As I said afore , Tom was second mate , an' I was bo's'n . 
Now when I heared Tom say this I sot still an' began to consider . 
Bein' second mate , Tom was , by rights , in command of this craft . 
But it was easy enough to see that if he commanded there'd never be nothin' fur Andy an' me to do . 
All the grit he had in him he'd used up in holdin' on durin' that typhoon . 
So I calls to Andy , who was busy turnin' over the biscuits on the deck . 
Andy , says I , when he had got under the canvas , we's goin' to have a 'lection fur skipper . 
Tom , here , is about played out . 
He's one candydate , an' I'm another . 
Now , who do you vote fur ? An' mind yer eye , youngster , that you don't make no mistake . 
I vote fur you' says Andy . 
If Davy Jones was to do all that Tom Simmons said when he heared this , the old chap would be kept busier than he ever was yit . 
But I let him growl his growl out , knowin' he'd come round all right , fur there wasn't no help fur it , consid'rin' Andy an' me was two to his one . 
Pretty soon we all went to work , an' got up a spar from below , which we rigged to the stump of the foremast , with Andy's shirt atop of it . 
Shut up about Christmas ! says Tom Simmons . 
Which is more'n you could say , says I , if you'd chuck Tom an , me over' alludin' to his eleven inch grip . 
You can't take out no insurance at this office . 
All right , then , says Andy an' if I git stove in by floatin' boxes , you an' Tom'll have to eat the rest of them salt crackers . 
Now , boy , says I , an' he wasn't much more , bein' only nineteen year old , you'd better keep out o' that hold . 
You'll just git yourself smashed . 
Well , fur about two hours Andy swum , an' dove , an' come up blubberin' , an' dodged all sorts of floatin' an' pitchin' stuff , fur the swell was still on . 
But he couldn't even be so much as sartin that he'd found the canned vittles . 
To dive down through hatchways , an' among broken bulkheads , to hunt fur any partiklar kind o' boxes under seven foot of sea water , ain't no easy job . 
But I give the boy a good punch in the ribs to stop his dreamin' , fur I was as hungry as Tom was , an' couldn't stand no nonsense about Christmas dinners . 
It was a little arter noon when Andy woke up , an' he went outside to stretch himself . 
In about a minute he give a yell that made Tom an' me jump . 
A sail ! he hollered . 
There she is ! he shouted , not a mile to win'ard . 
An' Tom he began to growl as if somebody had cheated him out of half a year's wages . 
The flag that we saw was on the hull of a steamer that had been driftin' down on us while we was sittin' under our canvas . 
It was plain to see she'd been caught in the typhoon , too , fur there wasn't a mast or a smoke stack on her . 
But her hull was high enough out of the water to catch what wind there was , while we was so low sunk that we didn't make no way at all . 
I'd like to know what good that old hulk is to us , says Tom Simmons . 
She can't take us off . 
It did look to me somethin' like the blind leadin' the blind . 
It was a queer boat , very low an' flat , an' not like any ship's boat I ever see . 
But the two fellers at the oars pulled stiddy , an' pretty soon the boat was 'longside of us , an' the three men on our deck . 
His vessel was the Water Crescent , nine hundred tons , from 'Frisco to Melbourne , an' they had sailed about six weeks afore we did . 
When they sighted us they felt pretty sure they'd git some provisions out of us . 
But when I told the mate what a fix we was in his jaw dropped till his face was as long as one of Andy's hands . 
Howsomdever , he said he'd send the boat back fur as many men as it could bring over , an' see if they couldn't git up some of our stores . 
Even if they was soaked with salt water , they'd be better than nothin' . 
An' afore we turned in he took me aft an' had a talk with me as commandin' off'cer of my vessel . 
That wreck o' yourn , says he , has got a vallyble cargo in it , which isn't sp'iled by bein' under water . 
Now I'll tell you what I'll do . 
I'll lie by you , an' I've got carpenters aboard that'll put your pumps in order , an' I'll set my men to work to pump out your vessel . 
We've got a forge aboard , an' I believe we can make these pieces of machinery fit , an' git goin' ag'in . 
Then I'll tow you into Sydney , an' we'll divide the salvage money . 
Oh , we kin git at your stores easy enough , says he , when the water's pumped out . 
They'll be mostly sp'iled , says I. That don't matter' says he . 
Men'll eat anything when they can't git nothin' else . 
An' with that he left me to think it over . 
You hadn't oughter think so much about eatin' , Andy , says I , but if I was talkin' about them things I wouldn't leave out canned peaches . 
By George ! On a hot Christmas like this is goin' to be , I'd be the jolliest Jack on the ocean if I could git at that canned fruit . 
Well , there's a way , says Andy , that we might git some of 'em . 
Git out , Andy , says I , with all that stuff ! An' he got out . 
By George , sir ! the very thought of a tin can like that made me beat my heels ag'in the deck . 
I'd been mighty hungry , an' had eat a lot of salt pork , wet an' raw , an' now the very idee of it , even cooked , turned my stomach . 
I looked up to the stars ag'in , an' the little house an' the little schooner was clean gone , an' the whole sky was filled with nothin' but bright new tin cans . 
In the mornin' Andy he come to me ag'in . 
An' that's what I b'lieve we kin do , says he , with the help of that bat'ry man . 
Yes , says I , an' blow a lot of the cargo into flinders , an' damage the Mary Auguster so's she couldn't never be took into port . 
An' then I told him what the cap'n had said to me , an' what I was goin' to do with the money . 
A little ca'tridge , says Andy , would do all we want , an' wouldn't hurt the vessel , nuther . 
Besides that , I don't b'lieve what this cap'n says about tinkerin' up his engine . 
'Tain't likely he'll ever git her runnin' ag'in , nor pump out the Mary Auguster , nuther . 
If I was you I'd a durned sight ruther have a Christmas dinner in hand than a house an' wife in the bush . 
A little arter that I went to the cap'n an' I told him about Andy's idee , but he was down on it . 
It's your vessel , an' not mine , says he , an' if you want to try to git a dinner out of her I'll not stand in your way . 
But it's my 'pinion you'll just damage the ship , an' do nothin' . 
Howsomdever , I talked to the bat'ry man about it , an' he thought it could be done , an' not hurt the ship , nuther . 
The men was all in favor of it , fur none of 'em had forgot it was Christmas day . 
But Tom Simmons he was ag'in' it strong , fur he was thinkin' he'd git some of the money if we got the Mary Auguster into port . 
He was a selfish minded man , was Tom , but it was his nater , an' I s'pose he couldn't help it . 
There we lowered a small ca'tridge down the main hatchway , an' let it rest down among the cargo . 
Then we rowed back to the steamer , uncoilin' the wire as . 
The bat'ry man clumb up on deck , an' fixed his wire to a 'lectric machine , which he'd got all ready afore we started . 
Andy an' me didn't git out of the boat . 
We had too much sense fur that , with all them hungry fellers waitin' to jump in her . 
But we just pushed a little off , an' sot waitin' , with our mouths awaterin' , fur him to touch her off . 
Andy an' me pulled fur her like mad , the others a hollerin' arter us , an' we was on deck in no time . 
The deck was all covered with the water that had been throwed up . 
There was a lot of splinters , but where they come from we didn't know . 
By this time my dander was up , an' I just pitched around savage . 
That little ca'tridge wasn't no good , an' I didn't intend to stand any more foolin' . 
So he got down with a package of bigger ones , an' jumped into the boat . 
Well , we got the three ca'tridges into place . 
Ther's got to be fair play , says he . 
It's your vittles , but it's my side that's doin' the work . 
After we've blasted her this time you two can go in the boat an' see what there is to git hold of , but two of my men must go along . 
Well , sir , the pop that followed that tech was somethin' to remember . 
It shuck the water , it shuck the air , an' it shuck the hull we was on . 
Then we rowed like devils fur the lot of stuff that was bobbin' about on the water , out where the Mary Auguster had been . 
In we went among the floatin' spars and ship's timbers , I keepin' the things off with an oar , the two men rowin' , an' Andy in the bow . 
Suddenly Andy give a yell , an' then he reached himself for'ard with sech a bounce that I thought he'd go overboard . 
But up he come in a minnit , his two 'leven inch hands gripped round a box . 
He sot down in the bottom of the boat with the box on his lap an' his eyes screwed on some letters that was stamped on one end . 
Pidjin pies ! he sings out . 
But we kep' pushin' on to see what else there was . 
It's my 'pinion that the biggest part of that bark's cargo was blowed into mince meat , an' the most of the rest of it was so heavy that it sunk . 
But it wasn't all busted up , an' it didn't all sink . 
As soon as we had got our boxes aboard , four fresh men put out in the boat , an' after a while they come back with another load . 
An' I was mighty keerful to read the names on all the boxes . 
Some was meat pies , an' some was salmon , an' some was potted herrin's , an' some was lobsters . 
But nary a thing could I see that ever had growed on a tree . 
The cap'n kept good order , an' when all was ready the tops was jerked off the boxes , and each man grabbed a can an' opened it with his knife . 
When he had cleaned it out , he tuk another without doin' much questionin' as to the bill of fare . 
But none of us give our minds to stuff like this arter the glorious Christmas dinner that we'd quarried out of the Mary Auguster . 
Every man that wasn't on duty went below and turned in fur a snooze all 'cept me , an' I didn't feel just altogether satisfied . 
To be sure , I'd had an A dinner , an' , though a little mixed , I'd never eat a jollier one on any Christmas that I kin look back at . 
But , fur all that , there was a hanker inside o' me . 
I hadn't got all I'd laid out to git when we teched off the Mary Auguster . 
The day was blazin' hot , an' a lot of the things I'd eat was pretty peppery . 
It was half split open , an' I could see the tin cans shinin' through the crack . 
I give one jump at it , an' wrenched the side off . 
On the top of the first can I seed was a picture of a big white peach with green leaves . 
That box had been blowed up so high that if it had come down anywhere 'cept among them splinters it would 'a' smashed itself to flinders , or killed somebody . 
I leave that sort of thing fur Tom Simmons . 
Shadders is cool , says I , an' I kin go to sleep under all he throws . 
MY WELL AND WHAT CAME OUT OF IT Early in my married life I bought a small country estate which my wife and I looked upon as a paradise . 
After enjoying its delight for a little more than a year our souls were saddened by the discovery that our Eden contained a serpent . 
This was an insufficient water supply . 
The very next day I began to look for a well digger . 
He was a man of somewhat rough exterior , but of an ingratiating turn of mind . 
It was easy to see that it was his earnest desire to serve me . 
And now , then , said he , when we had had a little conversation about terms , the first thing to do is to find out where there is water . 
Have you a peach tree on the place ? We walked to such a tree , and he cut therefrom a forked twig . 
I thought , said I , that divining rods were always of hazel wood . 
A peach twig will do quite as well , said he , and I have since found that he was right . 
Divining rods of peach will turn and find water quite as well as those of hazel or any other kind of wood . 
He took an end of the twig in each hand , and , with the point projecting in front of him , he slowly walked along over the grass in my little orchard . 
Presently the point of the twig seemed to bend itself downward toward the ground . 
There , said he , stopping , you will find water here . 
I do not want a well here , said I. This is at the bottom of a hill , and my barn yard is at the top . 
Besides , it is too far from the house . 
Very good , said he . 
We will try somewhere else . 
His rod turned at several other places , but I had objections to all of them . 
A sanitary engineer had once visited me , and he had given me a great deal of advice about drainage , and I knew what to avoid . 
We crossed the ridge of the hill into the low ground on the other side . 
Here were no buildings , nothing which would interfere with the purity of a well . 
My well digger walked slowly over the ground with his divining rod . 
Very soon he exclaimed Here is water ! And picking up a stick , he sharpened one end of it and drove it into the ground . 
Then he took a string from his pocket , and making a loop in one end , he put it over the stick . 
What are you going to do ? I asked . 
I am going to make a circle four feet in diameter , he said . 
We have to dig the well as wide as that , you know . 
But I do not want a well here , said I. It's too close to the wall . 
I could not build a house over it . 
It would not do at all . 
He stood up and looked at me . 
He took his divining rod and went to the spot I had indicated . 
Is this the place ? he asked wishing to be sure he had understood me . 
He put his twig in position , and in a few seconds it turned in the direction of the ground . 
Then he drove down a stick , marked out a circle , and the next day he came with two men and a derrick , and began to dig my well . 
When they had gone down twenty five feet they found water , and when they had progressed a few feet deeper they began to be afraid of drowning . 
I put the question to myself , but could find no answer . 
I also laid the matter before some specialists , and it was generally agreed that if water came in as fast as it was taken out , nothing more could be desired . 
The well was , therefore , pronounced deep enough . 
My neighbors , however , were all rural people , and much more intelligent in regard to water supplies . 
One of them , Phineas Colwell by name , took a more lively interest in my operations than did any one else . 
He was a man of about fifty years of age , who had been a soldier . 
This fact was kept alive in the minds of his associates by his dress , a part of which was always military . 
I think he must also have been a sailor , judging from the little gold rings in his ears . 
But when I first knew him he was a carpenter , who did mason work whenever any of the neighbors had any jobs of the sort . 
He also worked in gardens by the day , and had told me that he understood the care of horses and was a very good driver . 
He sometimes worked on farms , especially at harvest time , and I know he could paint , for he once showed me a fence which he said he had painted . 
I frequently saw him , because he always seemed to be either going to his work or coming from it . 
In fact , he appeared to consider actual labor in the light of a bad habit which he wished to conceal , and which he was continually endeavoring to reform . 
Phineas walked along our lane at least once a day , and whenever he saw me he told me something about the well . 
He did not approve of the place I had selected for it . 
If he had been digging a well he would have put it in a very different place . 
But the next time I saw him he would again assert that if he had been digging that well he would not have put it there . 
About a quarter of a mile from my house , at a turn of the lane , lived Mrs. Betty Perch . 
She was a widow with about twelve children . 
When Mrs. Perch had time she sewed for the neighbors , and , whether she had time or not , she was always ready to supply them with news . 
From the moment she heard I was going to dig a well she took a vital interest in it . 
It will be fun for them , she said , and if your water really is good it will often come in very well for me . 
Mr. Colwell tells me , she continued , that you put your well in the wrong place . 
He is a practical man and knows all about wells , and I do hope that for your sake he may be wrong . 
My neighbors were generally pessimists . 
Country people are proverbially prudent , and pessimism is prudence . 
But the optimist often gets himself into terrible scrapes , for if he is wrong he cannot say he is glad of it . 
In fact , he might be called a working optimist . 
He lived about six miles from my house , and had a hobby , which was natural phenomena . 
He was always on the lookout for that sort of thing , and when he found it he would study its nature and effect . 
He often drove over to see me , and always told me how glad he would be if he had an opportunity of digging a well . 
To own a plug of earth four thousand miles long and only to know what is on the surface of the upper end of it is unmanly . 
We might as well be grazing beasts . 
But if I had been in your place , said he , with full right to do as I pleased , I would not have let those men go away . 
Having finished my well , I now set about getting the water into my residence near by . 
When all was ready we started the engine , and in a very short time we discovered that something was wrong . 
Investigation proved that the flow had stopped because there was no more water in the well . 
It is needless to detail the examinations , investigations , and the multitude of counsels and opinions with which our minds were filled for the next few days . 
Therefore , for the purposes of supplying the circulation of my domestic water system , the well was declared a failure . 
My non success was much talked about in the neighborhood , and we received a great deal of sympathy and condolence . 
Phineas Colwell was not surprised at the outcome of the affair . 
He had said that the well had been put in the wrong place . 
Mrs. Betty was not only surprised , but disgusted . 
It is all very well for you , she said , who could afford to buy water if it was necessary , but it is very different with the widow and the orphan . 
If I had not supposed you were going to have a real well , I would have had my spring cleaned out and deepened . 
I could have had it done in the early summer , but it is of no use now . 
The spring has dried up . 
Of course I did not submit to defeat at least , not without a struggle . 
I had a well , and if anything could be done to make that well supply me with water , I was going to do it . 
This was the only kind of a well , they said , which one could sink as deep as he pleased without being interfered with by the water at the bottom . 
The season did open , and so did the pea blossoms , and the pods actually began to fill before I saw that well driver again . 
I had had a good deal of correspondence with him in the meantime , urging him to prompt action , but he always had some good reason for delay . 
At last it was early in the summer he came with his derricks , a steam engine , a trip hammer , and a lot of men . 
They took off the roof of my house , removed the engine , and set to work . 
For many a long day , and I am sorry to say for many a longer night , that trip hammer hammered and banged . 
On the next day after the night work began , one of my neighbors came to me to know what they did that for . 
I told him they were anxious to get through . 
Get through what ? said he . 
The earth ? If they do that , and your six inch pipe comes out in a Chinaman's back yard , he will sue you for damages . 
When the pipe had been driven through the soft stratum under the old well , and began to reach firmer ground , the pounding and shaking of the earth became worse and worse . 
My wife was obliged to leave home with our child . 
If he is to do without both water and sleep , said she , he cannot long survive . 
And I agreed with her . 
While this terrible pounding was going on I heard various reports of its effect upon my neighbors . 
One of them , an agriculturist , with whom I had always been on the best of terms , came with a clouded brow . 
And again , we have had to give up having soup . 
We like soup , but we do not care to have it spout up like a fountain whenever that hammer comes down . 
I was grieved to trouble this friend , and I asked him what I should do . 
Do you want me to stop the work on the well ? said I. Oh , no , said he , heartily . 
Go on with the work . 
You must have water , and we will try to stand the bumping . 
I dare say it is good for dyspepsia , and the cows are getting used to having the grass jammed up against their noses . 
Go ahead we can stand it in the daytime , but if you could stop the night work we would be very glad . 
Some people may think it a well spring of pleasure to be bounced out of bed , but I don't . 
Mrs. Perch came to me with a face like a squeezed lemon , and asked me if I could lend her five nails . 
What sort ? said I. The kind you nail clapboards on with , said she . 
There is one of them been shook entirely off my house by your well . 
I am in hopes that before the rest are all shook off I shall get in some money that is owing me and can afford to buy nails for myself . 
I stopped the night work , but this was all I could do for these neighbors . 
My optimist friend was delighted when he heard of my driven well . 
He lived so far away that he and his mother were not disturbed by the jarring of the ground . 
I know that he was afraid we would soon get water , but was too kind hearted to say so . 
One day the pipe refused to go deeper . 
No matter how hard it was struck , it bounced up again . 
When some of the substance it had struck was brought up it looked like French chalk , and my optimist eagerly examined it . 
A French chalk mine , said he , would not be a bad thing , but I hoped that you had struck a bed of mineral gutta percha . 
That would be a grand find . 
But the chalk bed was at last passed , and we began again to bring up nothing but common earth . 
I suppose , said my optimist to me , one morning , that you must soon come to water , and if you do I hope it will be hot water . 
Hot water ! I exclaimed . 
I do not want that . 
Oh , yes , you would , if you had thought about it as much as I have , he replied . 
I lay awake for hours last night , thinking what would happen if you struck hot water . 
When fresh it would be already heated for cooking and hot baths . 
And then just think of it ! you could introduce the hot water system of heating into your house , and there would be the hot water always ready . 
But the great thing would be your garden . 
It would take a lot of pumping , I said , to do all that with the hot water . 
Oh , I forgot to say , he cried , with sparkling eyes , that I do not believe you would ever have any more pumping to do . 
You have now gone down so far that I am sure whatever you find will force itself up . 
It will spout high into the air or through all your pipes , and run always . 
Mr. Colwell says that if you had got him to tell you where to put that well there would have been no danger of this sort of thing . 
The next day the optimist came to me , his face fairly blazing with a new idea . 
I rode over on purpose to urge you , he cried , if you should strike hot water , not to stop there . 
Go on , and , by George ! you may strike fire . 
Oh , quite the opposite , said he . 
But do not let us joke . 
I think that would be the grandest thing of this age . 
Think of a fire well , with the flames shooting up perhaps a hundred feet into the air ! I wish Phineas Colwell had not been there . 
As it was , he turned pale and sat down on the wall . 
You look astonished ! exclaimed the optimist , but listen to me . 
You have not thought of this thing as I have . 
If you should strike fire your fortune would be made . 
By a system of reflectors you could light up the whole country . 
By means of tiles and pipes this region could be made tropical . 
You could warm all the houses in the neighborhood with hot air . 
And then the power you could generate just think of it ! Heat is power the cost of power is the fuel . 
You could furnish power to all who wanted it . 
You could fill this region with industries . 
My dear sir , you must excuse my agitation , but if you should strike fire there is no limit to the possibilities of achievement . 
But I want water , said I. Fire would not take the place of that . 
Oh , water is a trifle , said he . 
You could have pipes laid from town it is only about two miles . 
But fire ! Nobody has yet gone down deep enough for that . 
You have your future in your hands . 
As I did not care to connect my future with fire , this idea did not strike me very forcibly , but it struck Phineas Colwell . 
He did not say anything to me , but after I had gone he went to the well drivers . 
If you feel them pipes getting hot , he said to them , I warn you to stop . 
I have been in countries where there are volcanoes , and I know what they are . 
There's enough of them in this world , and there's no need of making new ones . 
But , of course , they could not tell how deep they must go , for some wells were over a thousand feet deep . 
I shook my head at this . 
There seemed to be only one thing certain about this drilling business , and that was the expense . 
I declined to go any deeper . 
You would find that would pay better in the long run . 
Phineas Colwell told me that when he had informed Mrs. Perch that I was going to stop operations , she was in a dreadful state of mind . 
My optimist was dreadfully cast down when he heard that I would drive no deeper . 
I have been afraid of this , he said . 
I have , been afraid of it . 
And if circumstances had so arranged themselves that I should have command of money , I should have been glad to assume the expense of deeper explorations . 
What possible advantage could that be ? I asked . 
I will tell you , he said . 
You would then have one of the grandest opportunities ever offered to man of constructing a gravity engine . 
This would be an engine which would be of no expense at all to run . 
It would need no fuel . 
Gravity would be the power . 
It would work a pump splendidly . 
You could start it when you liked and stop it when you liked . 
Pump ! said I. What is the good of a pump without water ? Oh , of course you would have to have water , he answered . 
But , no matter how you get it , you will have to pump it up to your tank so as to make it circulate over your house . 
Now , my gravity pump would do this beautifully . 
Just think of it ! It would run down a thousand feet , and where is there anything worked by weight that has such a fall as that ? I laughed . 
Oh , no , said he . 
I have planned the thing better than that . 
You see , the greater the weight the greater the power and the velocity . 
Now , then , at the end of the year you could not expect to haul that weight up again . 
You would have a trigger arrangement which would detach it from the rope when it got to the bottom . 
The next year you would put on another cylinder , and so on . 
I have not worked out the figures exactly , but I think that in this way your engine would run for thirty years before the pipe became entirely filled with cylinders . 
That would be probably as long as you would care to have water forced into the house . 
Yes said I , I think that is likely . 
He saw that his scheme did not strike me favorably . 
Suddenly a light flashed across his face . 
I tell you what you can do with your pipe , he said , just as it is . 
You can set up a clock over it which would run for forty years without winding . 
I smiled , and he turned sadly away to his horse but he had not ridden ten yards before he came back and called to me over the wall . 
I promised to do so . 
When the pounding was at an end my wife and child came home . 
But the season continued dry , and even their presence could not counteract the feeling of aridity which seemed to permeate everything which belonged to us , material or immaterial . 
We had a great deal of commiseration from our neighbors . 
Phineas Colwell was sorry for us , of course , but he could not help feeling and saying that if I had consulted him the misfortune would have been prevented . 
I never saw such a scene of wreckage , she said . 
It looks like a Western town after a cyclone . 
The man who came was named Mr. Barnet . 
He was a contemplative fellow with a pipe in his mouth . 
After having worked at the place for half a day he sent for me and said I'll tell you what I would do if I was in your place . 
I looked at him in amazement . 
I have measured the water , and I know . 
I could not understand him . 
It seemed to me that he was talking wildly . 
He filled his pipe and lighted it and sat upon the wall . 
Now , said he , after he had taken a few puffs , I'll tell you where the trouble's been with your well . 
People are always in too big a hurry in this world about all sorts of things as well as wells . 
I am a well digger and I know all about them . 
But you can't expect the water to come to that hole just the very day it's finished . 
Of course you will get some , because it's right there in the neighborhood , but there is always a lot more that will come if you give it time . 
It's got to make little channels and passages for itself , and of course it takes time to do that . 
It's like settling up a new country . 
Only a few pioneers come at first , and you have to wait for the population to flow in . 
This being a dry season , and the water in the ground a little sluggish on that account , it was a good while finding out where your well was . 
I felt like taking this good man by the hand , but I did not . 
I only told him to go ahead and do everything that was proper . 
The next morning , as I was going to the well , I saw Phineas Colwell coming down the lane and Mrs. Betty Perch coming up it . 
I did not wish them to question me , so I stepped behind some bushes . 
When they met they stopped . 
It's a sin and a shame and an abomination . 
It ain't no use , and it never can be no use , because it's in the wrong place . 
I'll do anything on this earth that you choose to name , said Phineas . 
I am safe , whatever it is . 
Well , then , said Mr. Barnet , knocking the ashes from his pipe preparatory to filling it again , will you marry Mrs. Perch ? Phineas laughed . 
I promised I would do anything , and I'll promise that . 
A slim chance for me , said Mrs. Betty , even if I'd have you . 
And she marched on with her nose in the air . 
When Mr. Barnet got fairly to work with his derrick , his men , and his buckets , he found that there was a good deal more to do than he had expected . 
He had gone away to take a job or a contract , I could not discover which , and he has not since appeared in our neighborhood . 
Mrs. Perch is very severe on me about this . 
TOLMAN Mr. Tolman was a gentleman whose apparent age was of a varying character . 
At times , when deep in thought on business matters or other affairs , one might have thought him fifty five or fifty seven , or even sixty . 
He was the head of a business firm . 
In fact , he was the only member of it . 
The firm was known as Pusey and Co . 
But Pusey had long been dead and the Co . 
, of which Mr. Tolman had been a member , was dissolved . 
Our elderly hero , having bought out the business , firm name and all , for many years had carried it on with success and profit . 
His counting house was a small and quiet place , but a great deal of money had been made in it . 
Mr. Tolman was rich very rich indeed . 
And yet , as he sat in his counting room one winter evening , he looked his oldest . 
He had on his hat and his overcoat , his gloves and his fur collar . 
Every one else in the establishment had gone home , and he , with the keys in his hand , was ready to lock up and leave also . 
He often stayed later than any one else , and left the keys with Mr. Canterfield , the head clerk , as he passed his house on his way home . 
Mr. Tolman seemed in no hurry to go . 
He simply sat and thought , and increased his apparent age . 
The truth was , he did not want to go home . 
He was tired of going home . 
This was not because his home was not a pleasant one . 
No single gentleman in the city had a handsomer or more comfortable suite of rooms . 
It was not because he felt lonely , or regretted that a wife and children did not brighten and enliven his home . 
He was perfectly satisfied to be a bachelor . 
The conditions suited him exactly . 
But , in spite of all this , he was tired of going home . 
I wish , said Mr. Tolman to himself , that I could feel some interest in going home . 
Then he rose and took a turn or two up and down the room . 
But as that did not seem to give him any more interest in the matter , he sat down again . 
I wish it were necessary for me to go home , said he , but it isn't . 
So then he fell again to thinking . 
What I need , he said , after a while , is to depend more upon myself to feel that I am necessary to myself . 
I'll stop going home at least , in this way . 
Mr. Canterfield was just going down to dinner as his employer rang the bell , so he opened the door himself . 
I will detain you but a minute or two , said Mr. Tolman , handing the keys to Mr. Canterfield . 
How long is he going to stay ? He didn't say , answered Mr. Canterfield . 
I'll tell you what he ought to do , said the lady . 
He ought to make you a partner in the firm , and then he could go away and stay as long as he pleased . 
He can do that now , returned her husband . 
He has made a good many trips since I have been with him , and things have gone on very much in the same way as when he is here . 
But still you'd like to be a partner ? Oh , yes , said Mr. Canterfield . 
And common gratitude ought to prompt him to make you one , said his wife . 
Mr. Tolman went home and wrote a will . 
He left all his property , with the exception of a few legacies , to the richest and most powerful charitable organization in the country . 
And before he went to bed his will was signed and witnessed . 
The next day he packed a trunk and left for the neighboring city . 
His apartments were to be kept in readiness for his return at any time . 
If you had seen him walking over to the railroad depot , you would have taken him for a man of forty five . 
It must be a small business , because I don't want to have to work very hard , and it must be snug and comfortable , because I want to enjoy it . 
I would like a shop of some sort , because that brings a man face to face with his fellow creatures . 
The city in which he was walking about was one of the best places in the country in which to find the place of business he desired . 
It was full of independent little shops . 
But Mr. Tolman could not readily find one which resembled his ideal . 
A small dry goods establishment seemed to presuppose a female proprietor . 
A grocery store would give him many interesting customers but he did not know much about groceries , and the business did not appear to him to possess any aesthetic features . 
He was much pleased by a small shop belonging to a taxidermist . 
It was exceedingly cosey , and the business was probably not so great as to overwork any one . 
He might send the birds and beasts which were brought to be stuffed to some practical operator , and have him put them in proper condition for the customers . 
It would be very unsatisfactory to engage in a business of which he knew absolutely nothing . 
A taxidermist ought not to blush with ignorance when asked some simple question about a little dead bird or a defunct fish . 
The shop which at last appeared to suit him best was one which he had passed and looked at several times before it struck him favorably . 
It was in a small brick house in a side street , but not far from one of the main business avenues of the city . 
The shop seemed devoted to articles of stationery and small notions of various kinds not easy to be classified . 
At any rate , he would go in and look at it . 
He did not care for a violin , even at the low price marked on the one in the window , but a new pocket knife might be useful . 
So he walked in and asked to look at pocket knives . 
The shop was in charge of a very pleasant old lady of about sixty , who sat sewing behind the little counter . 
While she went to the window and very carefully reached over the articles displayed therein to get the card of penknives , Mr. Tolman looked about him . 
The shop was quite small , but there seemed to be a good deal in it . 
There were shelves behind the counter , and there were shelves on the opposite wall , and they all seemed well filled with something or other . 
Then he looked over some things in the way of paper cutters , whist markers , and such small matters , which were in a glass case on the counter . 
And while he looked at them he talked to the old lady . 
She was a widow , with a son who , from her remarks , must have been forty years old . 
He was connected with a mercantile establishment , and they had lived here for a long time . 
While her son was a salesman , and came home every evening , this was very pleasant . 
But after he became a commercial traveller , and was away from the city for months at a time , she did not like it at all . 
It was very lonely for her . 
Mr. Tolman's heart rose within him , but he did not interrupt her . 
If I could do it , said she , I would give up this place , and go and live with my sister in the country . 
It would be better for both of us , and Henry could come there just as well as here when he gets back from his trips . 
Why don't you sell out ? asked Mr. Tolman , a little fearfully , for he began to think that all this was too easy sailing to be entirely safe . 
That would not be easy , said she , with a smile . 
It might be a long time before we could find any one who would want to take the place . 
We have a fair trade in the store , but it isn't what it used to be when times were better . 
And the library is falling off , too . 
Most of the books are getting pretty old , and it don't pay to spend much money for new ones now . 
The library ! said Mr. Tolman . 
Have you a library ? Oh , yes , replied the old lady . 
I've had a circulating library here for nearly fifteen years . 
There it is on those two upper shelves behind you . 
He had had no idea that there was a library here . 
I declare ! said he . 
It must be very pleasant to manage a circulating library a small one like this , I mean . 
I shouldn't mind going into a business of the kind myself . 
The old lady looked up , surprised . 
Did he wish to go into business ? She had not supposed that , just from looking at him . 
Mr. Tolman explained his views to her . 
He did not tell what he had been doing in the way of business , or what Mr. Canterfield was doing for him now . 
He merely stated his present wishes , and acknowledged to her that it was the attractiveness of her establishment that had led him to come in . 
Then you do not want the penknife ? she said quickly . 
Oh , yes , I do , said he . 
And I really believe , if we can come to terms , that I would like the two other knives , together with the rest of your stock in trade . 
The old lady laughed a little nervously . 
She hoped very much indeed that they could come to terms . 
She brought a chair from the back room , and Mr. Tolman sat down with her by the stove to talk it over . 
Few customers came in to interrupt them , and they talked the matter over very thoroughly . 
When the three met , the bargain was soon struck . 
As each party was so desirous of making it , few difficulties were interposed . 
The whole thing did not cost him , he said to himself , as much as some of his acquaintances would pay for a horse . 
And she particularly instructed him in the management of the circulating library . 
She informed him of the character of the books , and , as far as possible , of the character of the regular patrons . 
It was astonishing to see what interest Mr. Tolman took in all this . 
He was really anxious to meet some of the people about whom the old lady discoursed . 
He laughed when he thought of it , but he rubbed his hands and felt very well satisfied . 
There is nothing really crazy about it , he said to himself . 
In the course of twenty minutes a little boy opened the door and came in . 
Mr. Tolman hastened behind the counter to receive his commands . 
The little boy wanted two sheets of note paper and an envelope . 
Any particular kind ! asked Mr. Tolman . 
The boy didn't know of any particular variety being desired . 
He thought the same kind she always got would do . 
And he looked very hard at Mr. Tolman , evidently wondering at the change in the shopkeeper , but asking no questions . 
You are a regular customer , I suppose , said Mr. Tolman , opening several boxes of paper which he had taken down from the shelves . 
I have just begun business here , and don't know what kind of paper you have been in the habit of buying . 
But I suppose this will do . 
And he took out a couple of sheets of the best , with an envelope to match . 
These he carefully tied up in a piece of thin brown paper , and gave to the boy , who handed him three cents . 
You have paid me too much , he said . 
The boy took the cent , looked at Mr. Tolman , and then got out of the store as quickly as he could . 
Such profits as that are enormous , said Mr. Tolman , but I suppose the small sales balance them . 
This Mr. Tolman subsequently found to be the case . 
One or two other customers came in in the course of the afternoon , and about dark the people who took out books began to arrive . 
These kept Mr. Tolman very busy . 
Every one seemed sorry that the old lady had gone away . 
This was a young man who was forty three cents in arrears . 
On the first of the month he would settle it , and then he hoped to be able to pay cash whenever he brought in a book . 
The young man went away perfectly satisfied with the new librarian . 
Thus did Mr. Tolman begin to build up his popularity . 
As the evening grew on he found himself becoming very hungry . 
The next morning Mr. Tolman got his own breakfast . 
There were plenty of stock provisions in the house , which he had purchased with the rest of the goods , and he went out and bought himself a fresh loaf of bread . 
He had opened the shop , and sat facing the glass door , hoping , almost , that there would be some interruption to his meal . 
It would seem so much more proper in that sort of business if he had to get up and go attend to a customer . 
Before the evening of that day Mr. Tolman became convinced that he would soon be obliged to employ a boy or some one to attend to the establishment during his absence . 
After breakfast , a woman recommended by the old lady came to make his bed and clean up generally , but when she had gone he was left alone with his shop . 
He determined not to allow this responsibility to injure his health , and so at one o'clock boldly locked the shop door and went out to his lunch . 
He hoped that no one would call during his absence , but when he returned he found a little girl with a pitcher standing at the door . 
She came to borrow half a pint of milk . 
Milk ! exclaimed Mr. Tolman , in surprise . 
Why , my child , I have no milk . 
I don't even use it in my tea . 
The little girl looked very much disappointed . 
Is Mrs. Walker gone away for good ? said she . 
Yes , replied Mr. Tolman . 
But I would be just as willing to lend you the milk as she would be , if I had any . 
Is there any place near here where you can buy milk ? Oh , yes , said the girl . 
You can get it round in the market house . 
How much would half a pint cost ? he asked . 
Three cents , replied the girl . 
Well , then , said Mr. Tolman , here are three cents . 
You can go and buy the milk for me , and then you can borrow it . 
Will that suit ? The girl thought it would suit very well , and away she went . 
Even this little incident pleased Mr. Tolman . 
It was so very novel . 
It would certainly injure the library if he suspended business at meal times . 
He could easily have his choice of a hundred boys if he chose to advertise for one , but he shrank from having a youngster in the place . 
It would interfere greatly with his cosiness and his experiences . 
He might possibly find a boy who went to school , and who would be willing to come at noon and in the evening if he were paid enough . 
But it would have to be a very steady and responsible boy . 
He would think it over before taking any steps . 
He thought it over for a day or two , but he did not spend his whole time in doing so . 
The other little rooms seemed almost as funny to him , and he was sorry when the bell on the shop door called him down from their contemplation . 
It was pleasant to him to think that he owned all these odd things . 
The ownership of the varied goods in the shop also gave him an agreeable feeling which none of his other possessions had ever afforded him . 
It was all so odd and novel . 
He liked much to look over the books in the library . 
Many of them were old novels , the names of which were familiar enough to him , but which he had never read . 
He determined to read some of them as soon as he felt fixed and settled . 
In looking over the book in which the names and accounts of the subscribers were entered , he amused himself by wondering what sort of persons they were who had out certain books . 
If I get a boy now , thought Mr. Tolman , Glascow will be sure to come and bring the book while I am out . 
In almost exactly two weeks from the date of the last renewal of the book , P. Glascow came in . 
It was the middle of the afternoon , and Mr. Tolman was alone . 
This investigator of musical philosophy was a quiet young man of about thirty , wearing a light brown cloak , and carrying under one arm a large book . 
P. Glascow was surprised when he heard of the change in the proprietorship of the library . 
Still , he hoped that there would be no objection to his renewing the book which he had with him , and which he had taken out some time ago . 
Oh , no , said Mr. Tolman , none in the world . 
In fact , I don't suppose there are any other subscribers who would want it . 
I have had the curiosity to look to see if it had ever been taken out before , and I find it has not . 
The young man smiled quietly . 
No , said he , I suppose not . 
It is not every one who would care to study the higher mathematics of music , especially when treated as Dormstock treats the subject . 
He seems to go into it pretty deeply , remarked Mr. Tolman , who had taken up the book . 
At least , I should think so , judging from all these calculations , and problems , and squares , and cubes . 
Indeed he does , said Glascow . 
And there are three hundred and forty pages in all ! said Mr. Tolman , compassionately . 
Yes , replied the other . 
But I am quite sure that the matter will grow easier as I proceed . 
I have found that out from what I have already done . 
You say you have a good deal of leisure ? remarked Mr. Tolman . 
Is the musical business dull at present ? Oh , I'm not in the musical business , said Glascow . 
I have a great love for music , and wish to thoroughly understand it . 
But my business is quite different . 
I am a night druggist , and that is the reason I have so much leisure for reading . 
A night druggist ? repeated Mr. Tolman , inquiringly . 
Yes , sir , said the other . 
I am in a large downtown drug store which is kept open all night , and I go on duty after the day clerks leave . 
And does that give you more leisure ? asked Mr. Tolman . 
It seems to , answered Glascow . 
I sleep until about noon , and then I have the rest of the day , until seven o'clock , to myself . 
I think that people who work at night can make a more satisfactory use of their own time than those who work in the daytime . 
In the summer I can take a trip on the river , or go somewhere out of town , every day , if I like . 
Daylight is more available for many things , that is true , said Mr. Tolman . 
But is it not dreadfully lonely sitting in a drug store all night ? There can't be many people to come to buy medicine at night . 
I thought there was generally a night bell to drug stores , by which a clerk could be awakened if anybody wanted anything . 
It's not very lonely in our store at night , said Glascow . 
In fact , it's often more lively then than in the daytime . 
You see , we are right down among the newspaper offices , and there's always somebody coming in for soda water , or cigars , or something or other . 
And they're a lively set , I can tell you , sir . 
I've heard some of the best stories I ever heard in my life told in our place after three o'clock in the morning . 
A strange life ! said Mr. Tolman . 
Do you know , I never thought that people amused themselves in that way and night after night , I suppose . 
Yes , sir , night after night , Sundays and all . 
The night druggist now took up his book . 
Going home to read ? asked Mr. Tolman . 
Well , no , said the other . 
It's rather cold this afternoon to read . 
I think I'll take a brisk walk . 
Can't you leave your book until you return ! asked Mr. Tolman . 
That is , if you will come back this way . 
It's an awkward book to carry about . 
Thank you , I will , said Glascow . 
I shall come back this way . 
When he had gone , Mr. Tolman took up the book , and began to look over it more carefully than he had done before . 
But his examination did not last long . 
When Glascow came back , Mr. Tolman asked him to stay and warm himself . 
And then , after they had talked for a short time , Mr. Tolman began to feel hungry . 
He had his winter appetite , and had lunched early . 
When Mr. Tolman returned , the two had some further conversation in the corner by the little stove . 
It must be rather annoying , said the night druggist , not to be able to go out to your meals without shutting up your shop . 
If you like , said he , rather hesitatingly , I will stop in about this time in the afternoon , and stay here while you go to dinner . 
I'll be glad to do this until you get an assistant . 
I can easily attend to most people who come in , and others can wait . 
Mr. Tolman jumped at this proposition . 
It was exactly what he wanted . 
So P. Glascow came every afternoon and read Dormstock while Mr. Tolman went to dinner and before long he came at lunch time also . 
It was just as convenient as not , he said . 
He had finished his breakfast , and would like to read awhile . 
Mr. Tolman fancied that the night druggist's lodgings were , perhaps , not very well warmed , which idea explained the desire to walk rather than read on a cold afternoon . 
One afternoon there came into the shop a young lady , who brought back two books which she had had for more than a month . 
She made no excuses for keeping the books longer than the prescribed time , but simply handed them in and paid her fine . 
So he gravely gave her her change . 
Then she said she would like to take out Dormstock's Logarithms of the Diapason . 
Mr. Tolman stared at her . 
She was a bright , handsome young lady , and looked as if she had very good sense . 
He could not understand it . 
But he told her the book was out . 
Why , it's always out . 
It seems strange to me that there should be such a demand for that book . 
I have been trying to get it for ever so long . 
It IS strange , said Mr. Tolman , but it is certainly in demand . 
Did Mrs. Walker ever make you any promises about it ? No , said she , but I thought my turn would come around some time . 
And I particularly want the book just now . 
Mr. Tolman felt somewhat troubled . 
And he could not temporize with the young lady , and say that he thought the book would soon be in . 
He knew it would not . 
There were three hundred and forty pages of it . 
So he merely remarked that he was sorry . 
So am I , said the young lady , very sorry . 
It so happens that just now I have a peculiar opportunity for studying that book which may not occur again . 
There was something in Mr. Tolman's sympathetic face which seemed to invite her confidence , and she continued . 
Do you think there is any chance of its early return , and will you reserve it for me ? Reserve it ! said Mr. Tolman . 
And then he reflected a second or two . 
If you will come here the day after to morrow , I will be able to tell you something definite . 
She said she would come . 
Mr. Tolman was out a long time at lunch time the next day . 
He went to all the leading book stores to see if he could buy a copy of Dormstock's great work . 
There was no demand at all for it . 
The next day he went to several second hand stores , but no Dormstock could he find . 
When he came back he spoke to Glascow on the subject . 
He was sorry to do so , but thought that simple justice compelled him to mention the matter . 
The night druggist was thrown into a perturbed state of mind by the information that some one wanted his beloved book . 
A woman ! he exclaimed . 
Why , she would not understand two pages out of the whole of it . 
I didn't suppose any one would want this book . 
Do not disturb yourself too much , said Mr. Tolman . 
I am not sure that you ought to give it up . 
I am very glad to hear you say so , said Glascow . 
I have no doubt it is only a passing fancy with her . 
I dare say she would really rather have a good new novel . 
And then , having heard that the lady was expected that afternoon , he went out to walk , with the Dormstock under his arm . 
Mr. Tolman told her that he had tried to buy another copy of the work , and for this she expressed herself gratefully . 
At this the young lady seemed somewhat nettled . 
Is it not against the rules for any person to keep one book out so long ? she asked . 
No , said Mr. Tolman . 
I have looked into that . 
Our rules are very simple , and merely say that a book may be renewed by the payment of a certain sum . 
Then I am never to have it ? remarked the young lady . 
Oh , I wouldn't despair about it , said Mr. Tolman . 
He has not had time to reflect upon the matter . 
He is a reasonable young man , and I believe that he will be willing to give up his study of the book for a time and let you take it . 
No , said she , I don't wish that . 
If he is studying , as you say he is , day and night , I do not wish to interrupt him . 
I should want the book at least a month , and that , I suppose , would upset his course of study entirely . 
So she went her way . 
When P. Glascow heard all this in the evening , he was very grave . 
He had evidently been reflecting . 
It is not fair , said he . 
I ought not to keep the book so long . 
I now give it up for a while . 
You may let her have it when she comes . 
And he put the Dormstock on the counter , and went and sat down by the stove . 
He knew the night druggist had done right , but still he was sorry for him . 
What will you do ? he asked . 
Will you stop your studies ? Oh , no , said Glascow , gazing solemnly into the stove . 
I will take up some other books on the diapason which I have , and so will keep my ideas fresh on the subject until this lady is done with the book . 
I do not really believe she will study it very long . 
Then he added If it is all the same to you , I will come around here and read , as I have been doing , until you shall get a regular assistant . 
Mr. Tolman would be delighted to have him come , he said . 
He had entirely given up the idea of getting an assistant , but this he did not say . 
It was some time before the lady came back , and Mr. Tolman was afraid she was not coming at all . 
But she did come , and asked for Mrs. Burney's Evelina . 
She smiled when she named the book , and said that she believed she would have to take a novel , after all , and she had always wanted to read that one . 
I wouldn't take a novel if I were you , said Mr. Tolman and he triumphantly took down the Dormstock and laid it before her . 
She was evidently much pleased , but when he told her of Mr. Glascow's gentlemanly conduct in the matter , her countenance instantly changed . 
Not at all , said she , laying down the book . 
I will not break up his study . 
I will take the Evelina' if you please . 
And as no persuasion from Mr. Tolman had any effect upon her , she went away with Mrs. Burney's novel in her muff . 
Now , then , said Mr. Tolman to Glascow , in the evening , you may as well take the book along with you . 
But Glascow would do nothing of the kind . 
No , he remarked , as he sat looking into the stove . 
When I said I would let her have it , I meant it . 
She'll take it when she sees that it continues to remain in the library . 
It would serve them both right , said Mr. Tolman to himself , if somebody else should come and take it . 
But there was no one else among his subscribers who would even think of such a thing . 
One day , however , the young lady came in and asked to look at the book . 
Don't think that I am going to take it out , she said , noticing Mr. Tolman's look of pleasure as he handed her the volume . 
I only wish to see what he says on a certain subject which I am studying now . 
And so she sat down by the stove on the chair which Mr. Tolman placed for her , and opened Dormstock . 
She sat earnestly poring over the book for half an hour or more , and then she looked up and said I really cannot make out what this part means . 
Excuse my troubling you , but I would be very glad if you would explain the latter part of this passage . 
Me ! exclaimed Mr. Tolman . 
Why , my good madam , miss , I mean , I couldn't explain it to you if it were to save my life . 
But what page is it ? said he , looking at his watch . 
Page twenty four , answered the young lady . 
The night druggist soon came in , and when Mr. Tolman introduced him to the lady , he readily agreed to explain the passage to her if he could . 
So Mr. Tolman got him a chair from the inner room , and he also sat down by the stove . 
The explanation was difficult , but it was achieved at last , and then the young lady broached the subject of leaving the book unused . 
But even this strong argument proved of no avail . 
I would like to make this more of a reading room , anyway . 
It would give me more company . 
She often met Glascow in the shop , and on such occasions they generally consulted Dormstock , and sometimes had quite lengthy talks on musical matters . 
The proper thing , thought Mr. Tolman , would be for these two people to get married . 
Then they could take the book and study it to their heart's content . 
It would be an admirable match . 
Mr. Tolman thought over this matter a good deal , and at last determined to mention it to Glascow . 
When he did so , the young man colored , and expressed the opinion that it would be of no use to think of such a thing . 
But it was evident from his manner and subsequent discourse that he had thought of it . 
Mr. Tolman gradually became quite anxious on the subject , especially as the night druggist did not seem inclined to take any steps in the matter . 
The weather was now beginning to be warmer , and Mr. Tolman reflected that the little house and the little shop were probably much more cosey and comfortable in winter than in summer . 
There were higher buildings all about the house , and even now he began to feel that the circulation of air would be quite as agreeable as the circulation of books . 
He thought a good deal about his airy rooms in the neighboring city . 
Mr. Glascow , said he , one afternoon , I have made up my mind to sell out this business shortly . 
What ! exclaimed the other . 
The night druggist was shocked . 
He had spent many happy hours in that shop , and his hours there were now becoming pleasanter than ever . 
If Mr. Tolman went away , all this must end . 
Nothing of the kind could be expected of any new proprietor . 
And considering this , continued Mr. Tolman , I think it would be well for you to bring your love matters to a conclusion while I am here to help you . 
My love matters ! exclaimed Mr. Glascow , with a flush . 
Yes , certainly , said Mr. Tolman . 
I have eyes , and I know all about it . 
Now let me tell you what I think . 
When a thing is to be done , it ought to be done the first time there is a good chance . 
That's the way I do business . 
Now you might as well come around here to morrow afternoon prepared to propose to Miss Edwards . 
She is due to morrow , for she has been two days away . 
If she doesn't come , we will postpone the matter until the next day . 
But you should be ready to morrow . 
The night druggist wanted to think about it . 
There is nothing to think , said Mr. Tolman . 
We know all about the lady . 
Take my advice , and be here to morrow afternoon and come rather early . 
He also brought down one or two knickknacks and put them on the mantelpiece , and he dusted and brightened up the room as well as he could . 
He even covered the table with a red cloth from the parlor . 
When the young lady arrived , he invited her to walk into the back room to look over some new books he had just got in . 
If she had known he proposed to give up the business , she would have thought it rather strange that he should be buying new books . 
But she knew nothing of his intentions . 
When she was seated at the table whereon the new books were spread , Mr. Tolman stepped outside of the shop door to watch for Glascow's approach . 
Walk right in , said Mr. Tolman . 
She's in the back room looking over books . 
I'll wait here , and keep out customers as far as possible . 
It's pleasant , and I want a little fresh air . 
I'll give you twenty minutes . 
He stood there for some time , looking at the people outside , and wondering what the people inside were doing . 
But he did not notice her . 
He was wondering if it was time to go in . 
A boy came up to the door , and wanted to know if he kept Easter eggs . 
Mr. Tolman was happy to say he did not . 
When he had allowed the night druggist a very liberal twenty minutes , he went in . 
As he entered the shop door , giving the bell a very decided ring as he did so , P. Glascow came down the two steps that led from the inner room . 
His face showed that it was all right with him . 
A few days after this Mr. Tolman sold out his stock , good will , and fixtures , together with the furniture and lease of the house . 
And who should he sell out to but to Mr. Glascow ! This piece of business was one of the happiest points in the whole affair . 
One thing in the establishment Mr. Tolman refused to sell . 
That was Dormstock's great work . 
What are YOU going to do ? they asked of him , when all these things were settled . 
They did not think him crazy . 
People who studied the logarithms of the diapason would not be apt to think a man crazy for such a little thing as that . 
When Mr. Tolman returned to the establishment of Pusey Co . 
, he found everything going on very satisfactorily . 
You look ten years younger , sir , said Mr. Canterfield . 
You must have had a very pleasant time . 
I did not think there was enough to interest you in for so long a time . 
Interest me ! exclaimed Mr. Tolman . 
Why , objects of interest crowded on me . 
I never had a more enjoyable holiday in my life . 
, he tore up the will he had made . 
He now felt that there was no necessity for proving his sanity . 
MY UNWILLING NEIGHBOR I was about twenty five years old when I began life as the owner of a vineyard in western Virginia . 
I built myself a good house of moderate size upon a little plateau on the higher part of my estate . 
My family consisted of myself alone . 
It is true that I expected some day that there would be others in my house besides myself , but I was not ready for this yet . 
During the summer I found it very pleasant to live by myself . 
It was a novelty , and I could arrange and manage everything in my own fashion , which was a pleasure I had not enjoyed when I lived in my father's house . 
But when winter came I found it very lonely . 
Even my servants lived in a cabin at some little distance , and there were many dark and stormy evenings when the company even of a bore would have been welcome to me . 
Sometimes I walked over to the town and visited my friends there , but this was not feasible on stormy nights , and the winter seemed to me a very long one . 
But spring came , outdoor operations began , and for a few weeks I felt again that I was all sufficient for my own pleasure and comfort . 
One of those seasons of bad and stormy weather which so frequently follow an early spring settled down upon my spirits and my hillside . 
It rained , it was cold , fierce winds blew , and I became more anxious for somebody to talk to than I had been at any time during the winter . 
I had thought of asking Jack to come and live with me , but this idea I soon dismissed . 
I am a very particular person , and Jack was not . 
He left his pipes about in all sorts of places sometimes when they were still lighted . 
When he came to see me he was quite as likely to put his hat over the inkstand as to put it anywhere else . 
But if Jack lived at a little distance , and we could go backward and forward to see each other whenever we pleased , that would be quite another thing . 
He could do as he pleased in his own house , and I could do as I pleased in mine , and we might have many pleasant evenings together . 
I did not sleep long before I was awakened by the increased violence of the storm . 
My house shook with the fury of the wind . 
My bedroom was one of the rooms on the lower floor , and even there I could hear the pounding of the deluge and the hailstones upon the roof . 
All this was very doleful , and had a tendency to depress the spirits of a man awake and alone in a good sized house . 
But I shook off this depression . 
It would require a hurricane to blow off the roof , and I believed my shutters to be hail proof . 
So , as there was no reason to stay awake , I turned over and went to sleep . 
I do not know how long it was before I was awakened again , this time not by the noise of the storm , but by a curious movement of my bedstead . 
I had once felt the slight shock of an earthquake , and it seemed to me that this must be something of the kind . 
Certainly my bed moved under me . 
The room was pitchy dark . 
In a moment I felt another movement , but this time it did not seem to me to resemble an earthquake shock . 
Such motion , I think , is generally in horizontal directions , while that which I felt was more like the movement of a ship upon the water . 
The storm was at its height the wind raged and roared , and the rain seemed to be pouring down as heavily as ever . 
I believe that if it had not been a bedstead provided with a footboard , I should have slipped out upon the floor . 
I did not jump out of bed . 
I did not do anything . 
Tables , everything in the room , seemed to be grating and grinding on the floor , and in a moment there was a crash . 
I knew what that meant my lamp had slipped off the table . 
Any doubt on that point would have been dispelled by the smell of kerosene which soon filled the air of the room . 
So I must stay in darkness and wait . 
I do not think I was very much frightened I was so astonished that there was no room in my mind for fear . 
In fact , all my mental energies were occupied in trying to find out what had happened . 
I was almost positive that there was no precipice , no terrible chasm into which my house might fall . 
There was nothing but sloping hillside , and beneath that a wide stretch of fields . 
I could hear , through the storm , the bricks banging and sliding upon the slanting roof . 
It would be far better to remain dry and warm under my roof . 
There was no reason whatever to suppose that the house would go to pieces , or that it would turn over . 
It must stop some time or other , and , until it did so , I would be safer in my bed than anywhere else . 
Therefore in my bed I stayed . 
Sitting upright , with my feet pressed against the footboard , I listened and felt . 
I believed the house was moving faster than when it first began its strange career , but that it was sliding over a smooth surface . 
This did not disturb me , for the house must still be firm . 
It was not long before I perceived that the slanting of my bed was becoming less and less , and also I was quite sure that the house was moving more slowly . 
Then the crackings and snappings before my front wall ceased altogether . 
It was now resting upon a level surface . 
The room was still perfectly dark , and the storm continued . 
While doing this I fell asleep . 
When I woke , a little light was stealing into the room through the blinds of my shutters . 
I quickly slipped out of bed , opened a window , and looked out . 
Day was just breaking , the rain and wind had ceased , and I could discern objects . 
But it seemed as if I needed some light in my brain to enable me to comprehend what I saw . 
My eyes fell upon nothing familiar . 
I did not stop to investigate , however , from my window . 
I quickly jerked this open and was about to step outside when , suddenly , I stopped . 
I was positive that my front porch had been destroyed . 
I ran to my back door and threw it open . 
It was lighter , and I saw bushes and fences and outbuildings I was in a back yard . 
Almost breathless with amazement and consternation , I ran again to the front door . 
When I reached it I found a young woman standing on the porch of the house before me . 
I was about to say something I know not what when she put her finger on her lips and stepped forward . 
Please don't speak loudly , she said . 
I am afraid it will frighten mother . 
I suppose you and your house have been sliding downhill ? That is what has happened , said I. But I cannot understand it . 
It seems to me the most amazing thing that ever took place on the face of the earth . 
I have often wondered if that house would ever slide downhill . 
My house ? Yes , she said . 
I could not talk with a girl like this at least , I could not meet her on her own conversational grounds . 
I was so agitated myself that it seemed unnatural that any one to whom I should speak should not also be agitated . 
Who are you ? I asked rather brusquely . 
At least , to whom does this house belong ? This is my mother's house , said she . 
My mother is Mrs. Carson . 
We happen just now to be living here by ourselves , so I cannot call on any man to help you do anything . 
My brother has always lived with us , but last week he went away . 
Oh , I am astonished , she answered or , at least , I was . 
But I have had time enough to get over some of it . 
It was at least an hour ago when I was awakened by hearing something crack in the yard . 
I went to a window and looked out , and could just barely see that something like a big building had grown up during the night . 
Then I watched it , and watched it , until I made out it was a whole house and after that it was not long before I guessed what had happened . 
It seemed a simpler thing to me , you know , than it did to you , because I had often thought about it , and probably you never had . 
You are right there , said I , earnestly . 
It would have been impossible for me to imagine such a thing . 
I see , she added , with another of her smiles , that you think I am a very strange person not to be more flurried by what has happened . 
But really I cannot think of anything else just now , except what mother will say and do when she comes down and finds you and your house here at the back door . 
I am very sure she will not like it . 
Like it ! I exclaimed . 
Who on earth could like it ? Please speak more gently , she said . 
Mother is always a little irritable when her night's rest has been broken , and I would not like to have her wakened up suddenly now . 
But really , Mr. Warren , I haven't the least idea in the world how she will take this thing . 
I must go in and be with her when she wakes , so that I can explain just what has happened . 
One moment , I said . 
Of course I know your name , she answered . 
Could that house be up there on the hillside for more than a year without my knowing who lived in it ? With this she went indoors . 
I could not help smiling when I thought of the young lady regretting that there was no man in the house who might help me do something . 
What could anybody do in a case like this ? I turned and went into my house . 
I entered the various rooms on the lower floor , and saw no signs of any particular damage , except that everything movable in each room was jumbled together against the front wall . 
But when I looked out of the back door I found that the porch there was a good deal wrecked , which I had not noticed before . 
I went up stairs , and found everything very much as it was below . 
Nothing seemed to have been injured except the chimney and the porches . 
I thanked my stars that I had used hard wood instead of mortar for the ceilings of my rooms . 
I was about to go into my bedroom , when I heard a woman scream , and of course I hurried to the front . 
There on the back porch of her house stood Mrs. Carson . 
She was a woman of middle age , and , as I glanced at her , I saw where her daughter got her good looks . 
But the placidity and cheerfulness of the younger face were entirely wanting in the mother . 
Her eyes sparkled , her cheeks were red , her mouth was partly opened , and it seemed to me that I could almost see that her breath was hot . 
Is this your house ? she cried , the moment her eyes fell upon me . 
It was plain that she had decided to let me have it out with her mother without interference . 
As briefly and as clearly as I could , I explained what had happened . 
What is all that to me ? she screamed . 
It doesn't matter to me how your house got here . 
There have been storms ever since the beginning of the world , and I never heard of any of them taking a house into a person's back yard . 
You ought not to have built your house where any such thing could happen . 
But all this is nothing to me . 
I don't understand now how your house did get here , and I don't want to understand it . 
All I want is for you to take it away . 
I will do that , madam , just as soon as I can . 
You may be very sure I will do that . 
But Can you do it now ? she asked . 
Can you do it to day ? I don't want a minute lost . 
I have not been outside to see what damage has been done , but the first thing to do is to take your house away . 
I am going to the town now , madam , to summon assistance . 
Mrs. Carson made no answer , but she turned and walked to the end of her porch . 
There she suddenly gave a scream which quickly brought her daughter from the house . 
Kitty ! Kitty ! cried her mother . 
Do you know what he has done ? He has gone right over my round flower garden . 
His house is sitting on it this minute ! But he could not help it , mother , said Kitty . 
Help it ! exclaimed Mrs. Carson . 
I didn't expect him to help it . 
What I want Suddenly she stopped . 
To be sure , it might possibly be drawn off sidewise . 
But whether it was moved one way or the other , a lot of Mrs. Carson's trees would have to be cut down to let it pass . 
Which shall never happen ! cried that good lady . 
If nothing else can be done , it must be taken apart and hauled off in carts . 
But no matter how it is managed , it must be moved , and that immediately . 
Miss Carson now prevailed upon her mother to go into the house , and I stayed and talked to the men and a few women who had gathered outside . 
When they had said all they had to say , and seen all there was to see , these people went home to their breakfasts . 
I entered my house , but not by the front door , for to do that I would have been obliged to trespass upon Mrs. Carson's back porch . 
I got my hat , and was about to start for the town , when I heard my name called . 
Turning into the hall , I saw Miss Carson , who was standing at my front door . 
But I am going to town to see what can be done about my house , and will get my breakfast there . 
It's a long way to go without anything to eat , she said , and we can give you some breakfast . 
But I want to ask you something . 
I am in a good deal of perplexity . 
But what bothers me is trying to find our well . 
I have been outside , and can see no signs of it . 
Where was your well ? I gasped . 
It ought to be somewhere near the back of your house , she said . 
May I go through your hall and look out ? Of course you may , I cried , and I preceded her to my back door . 
I should not wonder a bit , she continued slowly , if it is under your porch . 
What can we do ? she asked . 
We can't have breakfast or get along at all without water . 
It was a terribly depressing thing to me to think that I , or rather my house , had given these people so much trouble . 
But I speedily , assured Miss Carson that if she could find a bucket and a rope which I could lower into the well , I would provide her with water . 
She went into her house to see what she could find , and I tore away the broken planks of the porch , so that I could get to the well . 
And then , when she came with a tin pail and a clothes line , I went to work to haul up water and carry it to her back door . 
I don't want mother to find out what has happened to the well , she said , for she has enough on her mind already . 
Mrs. Carson was a woman with some good points in her character . 
After a time she called to me herself , and told me to come in to breakfast . 
Heavens and earth ! she cried , this house is moving ! She was not mistaken . 
I had felt beneath my feet a sudden sharp shock not severe , but unmistakable . 
I remembered that both houses stood upon slightly sloping ground . 
My blood turned cold , my heart stood still even Miss Carson was pale . 
When we had rushed out of doors to see what had happened , or what was going to happen , I soon found that we had been needlessly frightened . 
I endeavored to prove to Mrs. Carson that the result was encouraging rather than otherwise , for my house was now more firmly settled than it had been . 
I hurried away to the town , and it was not long before several carpenters and masons were on the spot . 
When that should be done it would be impossible for it to move any farther . 
But I don't want it braced ! cried Mrs. Carson . 
I want it taken away . 
I want it out of my back yard ! The master carpenter was a man of imagination and expedients . 
That is quite another thing , ma'am , said he . 
We'll fix this gentleman's house so that you needn't be afraid of it , and then , when the time comes to move it , there's several ways of doing that . 
Which would make an awful time at the back of my house while you were doing it ! exclaimed Mrs. Carson . 
I now put in a word . 
There's only one thing to do that I can see ! I exclaimed . 
I will sell it to a match factory . 
It is almost all wood , and it can be cut up in sections about two inches thick , and then split into matches . 
I should like to see them , she said , taking away the little sticks in wheelbarrows ! There is no need of trifling on the subject , said Mrs. Carson . 
I have had a great deal to bear , and I must bear it no longer than is necessary . 
I have just found out that in order to get water out of my own well , I must go to the back porch of a stranger . 
Such things cannot be endured . 
If my son George were here , he would tell me what I ought to do . 
I shall write to him , and see what he advises . 
I do not mind waiting a little bit , now that I know that you can fix Mr. Warren's house so that it won't move any farther . 
Thus the matter was left . 
My house was braced that afternoon , and toward evening I started to go to a hotel in the town to spend the night . 
No , sir ! said Mrs. Carson . 
You have come down here in your property , and you can stay in it and take care of it ! I don't object to that in the least , I said . 
My two women are here , and I can tell them to attend to my meals . 
I haven't any chimney , but I suppose they can make a fire some way or other . 
No , sir ! said Mrs. Carson . 
I am not going to have any strange servants on my place . 
I have just been able to prevail upon my own women to go into the house , and I don't want any more trouble . 
What am I to do ? Well , she said , you can eat with us . 
That is the best way I can see of managing the thing . 
But I am very sure I am not going to be left here alone in the dreadful predicament in which you have put me . 
We had scarcely finished supper when Jack Brandiger came to see me . 
He laughed a good deal a about my sudden change of base , but thought , on the whole , my house had made a very successful move . 
It must be more pleasant in the valley than up on that windy hill . 
Jack was very much interested in everything , and when Mrs. Carson and her daughter appeared , as we were walking about viewing the scene , I felt myself obliged to introduce him . 
I like those ladies , said he to me , afterwards . 
I think you have chosen very agreeable neighbors . 
How do you know you like them ? said I. You had scarcely anything to say to Mrs. Carson . 
No , to be sure , said he . 
But I expect I should like her . 
No , said I , firmly . 
As things are now , I have as much as I can do to get along here by myself . 
Mrs. Carson did not hear from her son for nearly a week , and then he wrote that he found it almost impossible to give her any advice . 
He thought it was a very queer state of affairs . 
He had never heard of anything like it . 
But he would try and arrange his business so that he could come home in a week or two and look into matters . 
As I was thus compelled to force myself upon the close neighborhood of Mrs. Carson and her daughter , I endeavored to make things as pleasant as possible . 
I rigged up a pump on my back porch by which the water of the well could be conveniently obtained , and in every way endeavored to repair damages . 
He could not come on to look into the state of affairs , but he seemed to be giving it a great deal of thought and attention . 
Nearly a month had now passed since my house and I made that remarkable morning call upon Mrs. Carson . 
I was becoming accustomed to my present mode of living , and , so far as I was concerned , it satisfied me very well . 
I certainly lived a great deal better than when I was depending upon my old negro cook . 
Miss Kitty seemed to be satisfied with things as they were , and so , in some respects , did her mother . 
But the latter never ceased to give me extracts from some of her son George's letters , and this was always annoying and worrying to me . 
My son George , said Mrs. Carson , one morning , has been writing to me about jack screws . 
He says that the greatest improvements have been made in jack screws . 
What do you do with them , mother ? asked Miss Kitty . 
You lift houses with them , said she . 
He says that in large cities they lift whole blocks of houses with them and build stories underneath . 
He thinks that we can get rid of our trouble here if we use jack screws . 
But how does he propose to use them ? I asked . 
Oh , he has a good many plans , answered Mrs. Carson . 
In that way , he says , the bushes and trees would not have to be interfered with . 
I think brother George is cracked ! said Kitty . 
All this sort of thing worried me very much . 
The fact of its unwarranted position upon other people's grounds had ceased to trouble me . 
But the coming son George , with his jack screws , did trouble me very much , and that afternoon I deliberately went into Mrs. Carson's house to look for Kitty . 
I knew her mother was not at home , for I had seen her go out . 
When Kitty appeared I asked her to come out on her back porch . 
Have you thought of any new plan of moving it ? she said , with a smile , as we sat down . 
No , said I , earnestly . 
I have not , and I don't want to think of any plan of moving it . 
I am tired of seeing it here , I am tired of thinking about moving it away , and I am tired of hearing people talk about moving it . 
I have not any right to be here , and I am never allowed to forget it . 
What I want to do is to go entirely away , and leave everything behind me except one thing . 
And what is that ? asked Kitty . 
She turned a little pale and did not reply . 
You understand me , Kitty , I said . 
There is nothing in the world that I care for but you . 
What have you to say to me ? Then came back to her her little smile . 
I think it would be very foolish for us to go away , she said . 
I had forgotten that there were other people in the world , but I went with her . 
We were standing on the front porch , close to each other , and I think we were holding each other's hands , when Mrs. Carson came back . 
As she approached she looked at us inquiringly , plainly wishing to know why we were standing side by side before her door as if we had some special object in so doing . 
Well ? said she , as she came up the steps . 
Of course it was right that I should speak , and , in as few words as possible , I told her what Kitty and I had been saying to each other . 
I never saw Kitty's mother look so cheerful and so handsome as when she came forward and kissed her daughter and shook hands with me . 
She seemed so perfectly satisfied that it amazed me . 
After a little Kitty left us , and then Mrs. Carson asked me to sit by her on a rustic bench . 
Now , said she , this will straighten out things in the very best way . 
And you know you can manage your vineyard just as well from the bottom of the hill as from the top . 
The lower rooms of what used to be your house can be made very pleasant and comfortable for all of us . 
The two houses together , with the roof of my back porch properly joined to the front of your house , will make a beautiful and spacious dwelling . 
It was fortunate , too , that you painted your house a light yellow . 
I have often looked at the two together , and thought what a good thing it was that one was not one color and the other another . 
Between us we can make all sorts of improvements , and some time I will tell you of a good many that I have thought of . 
What used to be your house , she continued , can be jack screwed up a little bit and a good foundation put under it . 
I have inquired about that . 
Jack Brandiger came to call that evening , and when he had heard what had happened he whistled a good deal . 
You are a funny kind of a fellow , said he . 
You go courting like a snail , with your house on your back ! I think my friend was a little discomfited . 
Few of us , I think , had a correct idea of the popularity of archery in our midst until the subject of a club was broached . 
Then we all perceived what a strong interest we felt in the study and use of the bow and arrow . 
This gentleman was eminently qualified for the presidency of an archery club . 
In the first place , he did not shoot this gave him time and opportunity to attend to the shooting of others . 
He was a tall and pleasant man , a little elderly . 
His little disease was chronic , it is true , and it was growing upon him but it was , so far , a pleasant ailment . 
Another club might not have among its members such a genial elderly gentleman who owned a village green . 
If Pepton could have arranged matters to suit himself , he would have been born an archer . 
But as this did not happen to have been the case , he employed every means in his power to rectify what he considered this serious error in his construction . 
He gave his whole soul , and the greater part of his spare time , to archery , and as he was a young man of energy , this helped him along wonderfully . 
No one could excel him in , this respect . 
His bow was snakewood , backed with hickory . 
He carefully rubbed it down every evening with oil and beeswax , and it took its repose in a green baize bag . 
His arrows were Philip Highfield's best , his strings the finest Flanders hemp . 
He had shooting gloves , and little leather tips that could be screwed fast on the ends of what he called his string fingers . 
He wore , when shooting , a polished arm guard or bracer , and if he had heard of anything else that an archer should have , he straightway would have procured it . 
Pepton was a single man , and he lived with two good old maiden ladies , who took as much care of him as if they had been his mothers . 
And he was such a good , kind fellow that he deserved all the attention they gave him . 
They felt a great interest in his archery pursuits , and shared his anxious solicitude in the selection of a suitable place to hang his bow . 
You see , said he , a fine bow like this , when not in use , should always be in a perfectly dry place . 
And when in use , too , said Miss Martha , for I am sure that you oughtn't to be standing and shooting in any damp spot . 
There's no surer way of gettin' chilled . 
To which sentiment Miss Maria agreed , and suggested wearing rubber shoes , or having a board to stand on , when the club met after a rain . 
, he reflected that the front door would frequently be open , and that damp drafts must often go through the hall . 
So he drew the nails from the wall of the hall , and put them up in various places about the house . 
His own room had to be aired a great deal in all weathers , and so that would not do at all . 
The wall above the kitchen fireplace would be a good location , for the chimney was nearly always warm . 
But Pepton could not bring himself to keep his bow in the kitchen . 
There would be nothing esthetic about such a disposition of it , and , besides , the girl might be tempted to string and bend it . 
But they did not say so . 
However , Pepton did not ask this sacrifice . 
In the summer evenings the parlor windows must be open . 
So into the wall of that neat little room Pepton drove his worsted covered nails , and on them carefully laid his bow . 
One afternoon , as I was passing the old ladies' house , saw , or thought I saw , two men carrying in a coffin . 
I was struck with alarm . 
Can either of those good women Or can Pepton Without a moment's hesitation , I rushed in behind the men . 
There , at the foot of the stairs , directing them , stood Pepton . 
Then it was not he ! I seized him sympathetically by the hand . 
Which ? Who is that coffin for ? Coffin ! cried Pepton . 
Why , my dear fellow , that is not a coffin . 
What is that ? Come and look at it , he said , when the men had set it on end against the wall . 
It is an upright closet or receptacle for an archer's armament . 
Isn't it a perfect thing ? You ought to get one . 
I admitted the perfection , but agreed no further . 
I had not the income of my good Pepton . 
In all the surface of the much perforated targets of the club , there was scarcely a hole that he could put his hand upon his heart and say he made . 
Indeed , I think it was the truth that Pepton was born not to be an archer . 
But there was no one but himself in Pepton's grade . 
He stood alone , and it was never any trouble to add up his score . 
Yet he was not discouraged . 
He practised every day except Sundays , and indeed he was the only person in the club who practised at night . 
When he told me about this , I was a little surprised . 
Why , it's easy enough , said he . 
You see , I hung a lantern , with a reflector , before the target , just a little to one side . 
To be sure , he said , in answer to a question , it was a good deal of trouble to find the arrows , but that I always have . 
When I get so expert that I can put all the arrows into the target , there will be no trouble of the kind , night or day . 
However , he continued , I don't practise any more by night . 
The other evening I sent an arrow slam bang into the lantern , and broke it all to flinders . 
Besides , I found it made Miss Martha very nervous to have me shooting about the house after dark . 
She is certainly a little mixed in her mind in regard to this matter , but I wish to respect her feelings , and so shall not use another lantern . 
As I have said , there were many good archers among the ladies of our club . 
Some of them , after we had been organized for a month or two , made scores that few of the gentlemen could excel . 
But the lady who attracted the greatest attention when she shot was Miss Rosa . 
There is something statuesque about her , said Pepton , who ardently admired her , and yet there isn't . 
A statue could never equal her unless we knew there was a probability of movement in it . 
And the only statues which have that are the Jarley wax works , which she does not resemble in the least . 
There is only one thing that that girl needs to make her a perfect archer , and that is to be able to aim better . 
Miss Rosa did need to aim better . 
Her arrows had a curious habit of going on all sides of the target , and it was very seldom that one chanced to stick into it . 
For if she did make a hit , we all knew it was chance and that there was no probability of her doing it again . 
She was almost as bad a shot as Pepton , and that is saying a good deal . 
I often used to go over and spend an hour with Pepton . 
He liked to have some one to whom he could talk on the subjects which filled his soul , and I liked to hear him talk . 
One of these is to kill an eagle or some large bird with a shaft from my good bow . 
I would then have it stuffed and mounted , with the very arrow that killed it still sticking in its breast . 
Would it not stir your pulses if you could do a thing like that ? I should have to stir them up a good deal before I could do it , I replied . 
It would be a hard thing to shoot an eagle with an arrow . 
If you want a stuffed bird to bequeath , you'd better use a rifle . 
A rifle ! exclaimed Pepton . 
There would be no glory in that . 
There are lots of birds shot with rifles eagles , hawks , wild geese , tomtits Oh , no ! I interrupted , not tomtits . 
Well , perhaps they are too little for a rifle , said he . 
But what I mean to say is that I wouldn't care at all for an eagle I had shot with a rifle . 
You couldn't show the ball that killed him . 
If it were put in properly , it would be inside , where it couldn't be seen . 
It is ever so much more honorable , and far more difficult , too , to hit an eagle than to hit a target . 
That is very true , I answered , especially in these days , when there are so few eagles and so many targets . 
But what is your other diadem ? That , said Pepton , is to see Miss Rosa wear the badge . 
Indeed ! said I. And from that moment I began to understand Pepton's hopes in regard to the grandmother of those children who should point to the eagle . 
Yes , sir , he continued , I should be truly happy to see her win the badge . 
And she ought to win it . 
No one shoots more correctly , and with a better understanding of all the rules , than she does . 
There must truly be something the matter with her aiming . 
I've half a mind to coach her a little . 
I turned aside to see who was coming down the road . 
I would not have had him know I smiled . 
The most objectionable person in our club was O. J. Hollingsworth . 
He was a good enough fellow in himself , but it was as an archer that we objected to him . 
There was , so far as I know , scarcely a rule of archery that he did not habitually violate . 
Our president and nearly all of us remonstrated with him , and Pepton even went to see him on the subject , but it was all to no purpose . 
I used to like to look at him when his turn came around to shoot . 
He was not such a pleasing object of vision as Miss Rosa , but his style was so entirely novel to me that it was interesting . 
He held the bow horizontally , instead of perpendicularly , like other archers , and he held it well down about opposite his waistband . 
He did not draw his arrow back to his ear , but he drew it back to the lower button of his vest . 
When he had seized the nock of his arrow between his finger and thumb , he languidly glanced at the target , raised his bow a little , and let fly . 
The provoking thing about it was that he nearly always hit . 
If he had only known how to stand , and hold his bow , and draw back his arrow , he would have been a very good archer . 
But , as it was , we could not help laughing at him , although our president always discountenanced anything of the kind . 
He did the best he could in every way . 
He generally shot with one of the bows owned by the club , but if any one on the ground had a better one , he would borrow it . 
He used to shoot sometimes with Pepton's bow , which he declared to be a most capital one . 
But as Pepton was always very nervous when he saw his bow in the hands of another than himself , the champion soon ceased to borrow it . 
With the exception of a few times when the club was first formed , the champion had always worn the gentlemen's badge . 
Many of us tried hard to win it from him , but we never could succeed he shot too well . 
He would be very busy , and would have to wait for the six fifteen train , which would bring him home too late for the archery meeting . 
So he gave me the badge , asking me to hand it to the president , that he might bestow it on the successful competitor that afternoon . 
We were all rather glad that the champion was obliged to be absent . 
Here was a chance for some one of us to win the badge . 
It was not , indeed , an opportunity for us to win a great deal of honor , for if the champion were to be there we should have no chance at all . 
But we were satisfied with this much , having no reason in the present , at least to expect anything more . 
So we went to the targets with a new zeal , and most of us shot better than we had ever shot before . 
In this number was O. J. Hollingsworth . 
He excelled himself , and , what was worse , he excelled all the rest of us . 
He actually made a score of eighty five in twenty four shots , which at that time was remarkably good shooting , for our club . 
This was dreadful ! To have a fellow who didn't know how to shoot beat us all was too bad . 
It was not to be borne . 
Pepton in particular felt greatly outraged . 
We had met very promptly that afternoon , and had finished our regular shooting much earlier than usual and now a knot of us were gathered together , talking over this unfortunate occurrence . 
I don't intend to stand it , Pepton suddenly exclaimed . 
I feel it as a personal disgrace . 
I'm going to have the champion here before dark . 
By the rules , he has a right to shoot until the president declares it is too late . 
Some of you fellows stay here , and I'll bring him . 
And away he ran , first giving me charge of his precious bow . 
There was no need of his asking us to stay . 
Pepton ran to the railroad station , and telegraphed to the champion . 
This was his message You are absolutely needed here . 
If possible , take the five thirty train for Ackford . 
I will drive over for you . 
The champion answered All right . 
Then Pepton rushed to our livery stable , hired a horse and buggy , and drove to Ackford . 
The champion was by his side ! The latter lost no time in talking or salutations . 
He knew what he had been brought there to do , and he immediately set about trying to do it . 
He took Pepton's bow , which the latter urged upon him . 
But Pepton cheered loudly enough to make up these deficiencies . 
What in the mischief did they cheer him for ? asked Hollingsworth of me . 
They didn't cheer me when I beat everybody on the grounds an hour ago . 
And it's no new thing for him to win the badge he does it every time . 
Well , said I , frankly , I think the club , AS a club , objects to your wearing the badge , because you don't know how to shoot . 
Don't know how to shoot ! he cried . 
Why , I can hit the target better than any of you . 
Isn't that what you try to do when you shoot ? Yes , said I , of course that is what we try to do . 
But we try to do it in the proper way . 
Proper grandmother ! he exclaimed . 
It doesn't seem to help you much . 
The best thing you fellows can do is to learn to shoot my way , and then perhaps you may be able to hit oftener . 
When the champion had finished shooting he went home to his dinner , but many of us stood about , talking over our great escape . 
I feel as if I had done that myself , said Pepton . 
I am almost as proud as if I had shot well , not an eagle , but a soaring lark . 
That's so , said Pepton , reflectively . 
But I'll stick to the lark . 
But as this was generally understood to be a crack club , we finally determined to defer our challenge until the next season . 
When I say we improved , I do not mean all of us . 
I do not mean Miss Rosa . 
Although her attitudes were as fine as ever , and every motion as true to rule as ever , she seldom made a hit . 
But she was not discouraged , and Pepton often assured her that if she would keep up a good heart , and practise regularly , she would get the badge yet . 
As a rule , Pepton was so honest and truthful that a little statement of this kind , especially under the circumstances , might be forgiven him . 
One day Pepton came to me and announced that he had made a discovery . 
I am very much obliged , I said , and what is the discovery ? It's this , he answered . 
When you draw your bow , bring the nock of your arrow he was always very particular about technical terms well up to your ear . 
Having done that , don't bother any more about your right hand . 
It has nothing to do with the correct pointing of your arrow , for it must be kept close to your right ear , just as if it were screwed there . 
Then let fly , and ten to one you'll make a hit . 
Now , what do you think of that for a discovery ? I've thoroughly tested the plan , and it works splendidly . 
I think , said I , that you have discovered the way in which good archers shoot . 
You have stated the correct method of managing a bow and arrow . 
Then you don't think it's an original method with me ? Certainly not , I answered . 
But it's the correct way ? There's no doubt of that , said I. Well , said Pepton , then I shall make it my way . 
He did so , and the consequence was that one day , when the champion happened to be away , Pepton won the badge . 
When the result was announced , we were all surprised , but none so much so as Pepton himself . 
He had been steadily improving since he had adopted a good style of shooting , but he had had no idea that he would that day be able to win the badge . 
When our president pinned the emblem of success upon the lapel of his coat , Pepton turned pale , and then he flushed . 
He said little , but I could see that he was very proud and very happy . 
There was but one drawback to his triumph Miss Rosa was not there . 
She was a very regular attendant , but for some reason she was absent on this momentous afternoon . 
I did not say anything to him on the subject , but I knew he felt this absence deeply . 
But this cloud could not wholly overshadow his happiness . 
He walked home alone , his face beaming , his eyes sparkling , and his good bow under his arm . 
That evening I called on him , for I thought that when he had cooled down a little he would like to talk over the affair . 
But he was not in . 
The next morning , full two hours before church time , Pepton called on me . 
His face was still beaming . 
I could not help smiling . 
Your happiness lasts well , I said . 
Why shouldn't it last ! There's no reason why it should not at least , for a week , I said , and even longer , if you repeat your success . 
I did not feel so much like congratulating Pepton as I had on the previous evening . 
I thought he was making too much of his badge winning . 
Look here ! said Pepton , seating himself , and drawing his chair close to me , you are shooting wild very wild indeed . 
You don't even see the target . 
Let me tell you something . 
Last evening I went to see Miss Rosa . 
She was delighted at my success . 
I had not expected this . 
I thought she would be pleased , but not to such a degree . 
Her congratulations were so warm that they set me on fire . 
They must have been very warm indeed , I remarked . 
Miss Rosa , said I , continued Pepton , without regarding my interruption , it has been my fondest hope to see you wear the badge . 
But I never could get it , you know , she said . 
You have got it , I exclaimed . 
I won it for you . 
Make me happy by wearing it . 
I can't do that , she said . 
That is a gentleman's badge . 
Take it , I cried , gentleman and all ! I can't tell you all that happened after that , continued Pepton . 
You know , it wouldn't do . 
It is enough to say that she wears the badge . 
And we are both her own the badge and I ! Now I congratulated him in good earnest . 
There was a reason for it . 
I don't owe a snap now for shooting an eagle , said Pepton , springing to his feet and striding up and down the floor . 
Let 'em all fly free for me . 
I have made the most glorious shot that man could make . 
The rest of you fellows will have to be content to hit the red , the blue , the black , or the white . 
The gold is mine ! I called on the old ladies , some time after this , and found them alone . 
They were generally alone in the evenings now . 
We talked about Pepton's engagement , and I found them resigned . 
They were sorry to lose him , but they wanted him to be happy . 
We have always known , said Miss Martha , with a little sigh , that we must die , and that he must get married . 
But we don't intend to repine . 
These things will come to people . 
And her little sigh was followed by a smile , still smaller . 
