Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
A STORY OF TO DAY My matter hath no voice to alien ears . 
CHAPTER I. Let me tell you a story of To Day , very homely and narrow in its scope and aim . 
Not of the To Day whose significance in the history of humanity only those shall read who will live when you and I are dead . 
We can bear the pain in silence , if our hearts are strong enough , while the nations of the earth stand afar off . 
I have no word of this To Day to speak . 
I write from the border of the battlefield , and I find in it no theme for shallow argument or flimsy rhymes . 
The shadow of death has fallen on us it chills the very heaven . 
No child laughs in my face as I pass down the street . 
It is not clear to us . 
Yet the To Morrow is there if God lives , it is there . 
Let us go down and look for it . 
Let us not quite neglect them , unpopular angels though they be . 
Very humble their voices are , just now yet not altogether dead , I think . 
You want something , in fact , to lift you out of this crowded , tobacco stained commonplace , to kindle and chafe and glow in you . 
I want you to dig into this commonplace , this vulgar American life , and see what is in it . 
Sometimes I think it has a new and awful significance that we do not see . 
Your ears are openest to the war trumpet now . 
Ha ! that is spirit stirring ! that wakes up the old Revolutionary blood ! Your manlier nature had been smothered under drudgery , the poor daily necessity for bread and butter . 
I want you to go down into this common , every day drudgery , and consider if there might not be in it also a great warfare . 
Not a serfish war not altogether ignoble , though even its only end may appear to be your daily food . 
A great warfare , I think , with a history as old as the world , and not without its pathos . 
You must fight in it money will buy you no discharge from that war . 
Let me roughly outline for you one or two lives that I have known , and how they conquered or were worsted in the fight . 
An old book , which I happened to find to day , recalled it . 
It was a ledger , iron bound , with the name of the firm on the outside , Knowles Co . 
You may have heard of the firm they were large woollen manufacturers supplied the home market in Indiana for several years . 
This ledger , you see by the writing , has been kept by a woman . 
That is not unusual in Western trading towns , especially in factories where the operatives are chiefly women . 
In such establishments , they can fill every post successfully , but that of overseer they are too hard with the hands for that . 
The writing here is curious concise , square , not flowing , very legible , however , exactly suited to its purpose . 
People who profess to read character in chirography would decipher but little from these cramped , quiet lines . 
The first page has the date , in red letters , October , , largely and clearly written . 
She did not look desperate , at all , a quiet , dark girl , coarsely dressed in brown . 
It had but one window , which overlooked a back yard full of dyeing vats . 
The sunlight that did contrive to struggle in obliquely through the dusty panes and cobwebs of the window , had a sleepy odour of copperas latent in it . 
You smelt it when you stirred . 
The manager , Pike , who brought her up , had laid the day books and this ledger open on the desk for her . 
As soon as he was gone , she shut the door , listening until his heavy boots had thumped creaking down the rickety ladder leading to the frame rooms . 
and went to work , opening the books , and copying from one to the other as steadily , monotonously , as if she had been used to it all her life . 
If any such morbid fancy were in the girl's head , there was no tear to betray it . 
The sordid , hard figures seemed to her types of the years coming , but she wrote them down unflinchingly perhaps life had nothing better for her , so she did not care . 
She finished soon they had given her only an hour or two's work for the first day . 
She closed the books , wiped the pens in a quaint , mechanical fashion , then got down and examined her new home . 
That was all , except an impalpable sense of dust and worn outness pervading the whole . 
That was all , inside . 
She looked out of the window . 
In it , as if set in a square black frame , was the dead brick wall , and the opposite roof , with a cat sitting on the scuttle . 
Going closer , two or three feet of sky appeared . 
It looked as if it smelt of copperas , and she drew suddenly back . 
It was her birthday she was twenty . 
It was only a little while ago since these things were more alive to her than anything else in the world . 
The seat was under the currant bushes still . 
She went to the cage , and put her finger in for it to peck at . 
The door opened at last , and a man came in , Dr . 
Knowles , the principal owner of the factory . 
He nodded shortly to her , and , going to the desk , turned over the books , peering suspiciously at her work . 
An old man , overgrown , looking like a huge misshapen mass of flesh , as he stood erect , facing her . 
You can go now , he said , gruffly . 
Tomorrow you must wait for the bell to ring , and go with the rest of the hands . 
A curious smile flickered over her face like a shadow but she said nothing . 
Then she stooped to tie her sandals . 
The old man watched her , irritated . 
She had been used to the keen scrutiny of his eyes since she was a baby , so was cool under it always . 
the last drop of his own blood , and exact the same of other men . 
She had tied her bonnet and fastened her shawl , and stood ready to go . 
Is that all you want ? he demanded . 
Which do you want ? Praise , I fancy . 
Neither , she said , quietly brushing her shawl . 
The work is well done , I know . 
The old man's eye glittered for an instant , satisfied then he turned to the books . 
He thought she had gone , but , hearing a slight clicking sound , turned round . 
She was taking the chicken out of the cage . 
Let it alone ! he broke out , sharply . 
Where are you going with it ? Home , she said , with a queer , quizzical face . 
Let it smell the green fields , Doctor . 
Ledgers and copperas are not good food for a chicken's soul , or body either . 
Let it alone ! he growled . 
You take it for a type of yourself , eh ? It has another work to do than to grow fat and sleep about the barnyard . 
I think I will take it . 
No , he said , quietly . 
It has a master here . 
If it dies here , its life won't have been lost . 
Not lost ? she said , slowly , refastening the cage . 
Only I think What , child ? She glanced furtively at him . 
It's a hard , scraping world where such a thing as that has work to do ! He vouchsafed no answer . 
She waited to see his lip curl bitterly , and then , amused , went down the stairs . 
She had paid him for his sneer . 
The steps were but a long ladder set in the wall , not the great staircase used by the hands that was on the other side of the factory . 
It was a huge , unwieldy building , such as crowd the suburbs of trading towns . 
This one went round the four sides of a square , with the yard for the vats in the middle . 
The ladders and passages she passed down were on the inside , narrow and dimly lighted she had to grope her way sometimes . 
The floors shook constantly with the incessant thud of the great looms that filled each story , like heavy , monotonous thunder . 
It deafened her , made her dizzy , as she went down slowly . 
It was no short walk to reach the lower hall , but she was down at last . 
Doors opened from it into the ground floor ware rooms glancing in , she saw vast , dingy recesses of boxes piled up to the dark ceilings . 
There was a crowd of porters and draymen cracking their whips , and lounging on the trucks by the door , waiting for loads , talking politics , and smoking . 
The smell of tobacco , copperas , and burning logwood was heavy to clamminess here . 
One of the porters , a short , sickly man , who stood aloof from the rest , pushed open a door for her with his staff . 
She thought too , one of the men muttered jail bird , jeering him for his forwardness . 
She hurried down it to gain the suburbs , for she lived out in the country . 
It was a long , tiresome walk through the outskirts of the town , where the dwelling houses were , long rows of two story bricks drabbled with soot stains . 
It was two years since she had been in the town . 
Remembering this , and the reason why she had shunned it , she quickened her pace , her face growing stiller than before . 
One might have fancied her a slave putting on a mask , fearing to meet her master . 
The town , being unfamiliar to her , struck her newly . 
She saw the expression on its face better . 
It was a large trading city , compactly built , shut in by hills . 
These churches lifted their hard stone faces insolently , registering their yearly alms in the morning journals . 
Nature itself had turned her back on the town the river turned aside , and but half a river crept reluctantly by the hills were but bare banks of yellow clay . 
There was a cinder road leading through these . 
The low town hills , as I said , were bare , covered at their bases with dingy stubble fields . 
In the sides bordering the road gaped the black mouths of the coal pits that burrowed under the hills , under the town . 
Trade everywhere , on the earth and under it . 
No wonder the girl called it a hard , scraping world . 
This was the country now in earnest . 
Margret slackened her step , drawing long breaths of the fresh cold air . 
Far behind her , panting and puffing along , came a black , burly figure , Dr . 
She had seen him behind her all the way , but they did not speak . 
Between the two there lay that repellent resemblance which made them like close relations , closer when they were silent . 
You know such people ? When you speak to them , the little sharp points clash . 
Yet they are the few whom you surely know you will meet in the life beyond death , saved or not . 
The Doctor came slowly along the quiet country road , watching the woman's figure going as slowly before him . 
He had a curious interest in the girl , a secret reason for the interest , which as yet he kept darkly to himself . 
For this reason he tried to fancy how her new life would seem to her . 
It should be hard enough , her work , he was determined on that her strength and endurance must be tested to the uttermost . 
He must know what stuff was in the weapon before he used it . 
He had been reading the slow , cold thing for years , had not got into its secret yet . 
But there was power there , and it was the power he wanted . 
He gave her scanty praise . 
Well , well , it was the old story . 
Yet he looked after her kindly as he thought of it as some people look sorrowfully at children , going back to their own childhood . 
For a moment he half relented in his purpose , thinking , perhaps , her work for life was hard enough . 
But no this woman had been planned and kept by God for higher uses than daughter or wife or mother . 
It was his part to put her work into her hands . 
The road was creeping drowsily now between high grass banks , out through the hills . 
A sleepy , quiet road . 
The restless dust of the town never had been heard of out there . 
Nobody in such a road could be in a hurry . 
Nobody ever was in a hurry . 
The brown bees came along there , when their work was over , and hummed into the great purple thistles on the road side in a voluptuous stupor of delight . 
The cows sauntered through the clover by the fences , until they wound up by lying down in it and sleeping outright . 
The country people , jogging along to the mill , walked their fat old nags through the stillness and warmth so slowly that even Margret left them far behind . 
Margret turned from the road , and went down the fields . 
No miles could measure the distance between her home and them . 
At a stile across the field an old man sat waiting . 
She hurried now , her cheek colouring . 
Knowles could see them going to the house beyond , talking earnestly . 
He sat down in the darkening twilight on the stile , and waited half an hour . 
He did not care to hear the story of Margret's first day at the mill , knowing how her father and mother would writhe under it , soften it as she would . 
It was nothing to her , he knew . 
After a while he heard the old man's laugh , like that of a pleased child , and then went in and took her place beside him . 
She went out , but came back presently , every grain of dust gone , in her clear dress of pearl gray . 
The neutral tint suited her well . 
As she stood by the window , listening gravely to them , the homely face and waiting figure came into full relief . 
Nature had made the woman in a freak of rare sincerity . 
There were no reflected lights about her no gloss on her skin , no glitter in her eyes , no varnish on her soul . 
Simple and dark and pure , there she was , for God and her master to conquer and understand . 
I saw such hair once , only once . 
There was neither love nor scorn in his look , a mere fixedness of purpose to make use of her some day . 
He talked , meanwhile , glancing at her now and then , as if the subject they discussed were indirectly linked with his plan for her . 
If it were , she was unconscious of it . 
You will fail , Knowles . 
It was her father who spoke . 
Nothing can save such a scheme from failure . 
Neither the French nor German Socialists attempted to base their systems on the lowest class , as you design . 
I know , said Knowles . 
That accounts for their partial success . 
Let me understand your plan practically , eagerly demanded her father . 
She thought Knowles evaded the question , wished to leave the subject . 
Perhaps he did not regard the poor old school master as a practical judge of practical matters . 
All his life he had called him thriftless and unready . 
It never will do , Knowles , he went on in his slow way . 
Any plan , Phalanstery or Community , call it what you please , founded on self government , is based on a sham , the tawdriest of shams . 
The old school master shook his head as one who knows , and tried to push the thin gray hairs out of his eyes in a groping way . 
Margret lifted them back , so quietly that he did not feel her . 
You'll call the Republic a sham next ! said the Doctor , coolly aggravating . 
The Republic ! The old man quickened his tone , like a war horse scenting the battle near at hand . 
There never was a thinner crusted Devil's egg in the world than democracy . 
I think I've told you that before ? I think you have , said the other , dryly . 
You always were a Tory , Mr. Howth , said his wife , in her placid , creamy way . 
It is in the blood , I think , Doctor . 
The Howths fought under Cornwallis , you know . 
The school master waited until his wife had ended . 
Very true , Mrs. Howth , he said , with a grave smile . 
Then his thin face grew hot again . 
Your scheme is but a sign of the mad age we live in . 
Since the thirteenth century , when the anarchic element sprang full grown into the history of humanity , that history has been chaos . 
And this republic is the culmination of chaos . 
Out of chaos came the new born earth , suggested the Doctor . 
But its foundations were granite , rejoined the old man with nervous eagerness , granite , not the slime of yesterday . 
When you found empires , go to work as God worked . 
The Doctor did not answer sat looking , instead , out into the dark indifferently , as if the heresies which the old man hurled at him were some old worn out song . 
Seeing , however , that the school master's flush of enthusiasm seemed on the point of dying out , he roused himself to gibe it into life . 
What a successful politician you would have made ? You would have had such a winning way to the hearts of the great unwashed ! Mrs. Howth laid down her knitting . 
My dear , she said , timidly , I think that is treason . 
The angry heat died out of his face instantly , as he turned to her , without the glimmer of a covert smile at her simplicity . 
She was a woman and when he spoke to the Doctor , it was in a tone less sharp . 
What is it the boys used to declaim , their Yankee hearts throbbing under their round aborts ? Happy , proud America ! Somehow in that way . 
Cursed , abased America ! better if they had said . 
Some sharper shadow seemed to haunt him than the downfall of the Republic . 
What help did he seek in this girl ? His keen , deep eyes never left her unconscious face . 
Comte ! growled the Doctor . 
The school master's cane beat an angry tattoo on the hearth . 
It was ten years after I wore spectacles that you began . 
Only for that miserable fever , you could read shorthand now . 
Her own blue eyes filled with tears . 
There was a sudden silence . 
Margret shivered , as if some pain stung her . 
Holding her father's bony hand in hers , she patted it on her knee . 
The hand trembled a little . 
Mrs. Howth's breath fairly left her , they went into the soul of the matter in such a dangerous way . 
What if Joel should hear ? No doubt he would report that his master was an infidel , that would be the next thing they would hear . 
He was in the kitchen now he finished his wood chopping an hour ago . 
Asleep , doubtless that was one comfort . 
Well , if he were awake , he could not understand . 
went tranquilly back to her knitting , wondering why Dr . 
Knowles should come ten times now where he used to come once , to provoke Samuel into these wearisome arguments . 
Ever since their misfortune came on them , he had been there every night , always at it . 
She should think he might be a little more considerate . 
without bothering his head about the theocratic principle , or the Battle of Armageddon . 
She had hinted as much to Dr . 
Knowles one day , and he had muttered out something about its being the life of the dog , Ma'am . 
She wondered what he meant by that ! She looked over at his bearish figure , snuff drabbled waistcoat , and shock of black hair . 
Margret took it very quietly , seeing her father flaming so . 
But Margret never had any opinions to express . 
She was not like the Parnells they were noted for their clear judgment . 
Mrs. Howth was a Parnell . 
But the school master was no weak man . 
His foot was entirely on his native heath , I assure you . 
But Mr. Howth did not wander there was nothing careless or two sided in the making of this man , no sham about him , or borrowing . 
Things began to assume a more familiar aspect . 
Spinoza , Fichte , Saint Simon , one heard about them now . 
It was pleasanter to hear him when he defended the great Past in which his ideal truth had been faintly shadowed . 
There was a flower stuck in the button hole of the school master's coat , a pale tea rose . 
he might have thought it was not unapt or ill placed even in the shabby , scuffed coat . 
A scholar , a gentleman , though in patched shoes and trousers a world too short . 
In the very haggard face you could find the quiet purity of the child he had been , and the old child's smile , fresh and credulous , on the mouth . 
The Doctor had not spoken for a moment . 
The master's voice grew low and lingering now . 
It was a labour of love , this . 
Make a poem of it , so much easier than to make a life ! Knowles shuffled uneasily , watching the girl keenly , to know how the picture touched her . 
It baffled the man that looked at it . 
He shuffled , chewed tobacco vehemently , tilted his chair on two legs , broke out in a thunder gust at last . 
Dead days for dead men ! The world hears a bugle call to day more noble than any of your piping troubadours . 
We have something better to fight for than a vacant tomb . 
The old man drew himself up haughtily . 
I know what you would say , Liberty for the low and vile . 
It is a good word . 
That was a better which they hid in their hearts in the old time , Honour ! Honour ! I think , Calvinist though he was , that word was his religion . 
Perhaps the Doctor thought this for he rose abruptly , and , leaning on the old man's chair , said , gently , It is better , even here . 
Yet you poison this child's mind . 
You make her despise To Day make honour live for her now . 
It does not , the school master said , bitterly . 
All the great old dreams are dead . 
Some word of pregnant meaning flashed in his eye and trembled on his lip but he kept it back . 
His face glowed , though , and the glow and strength gave to the huge misshapen features a grand repose . 
You talk of To Day , the old man continued , querulously . 
I am tired of it . 
Here is its type and history , touching a county newspaper , a fair type , with its cant , and bigotry , and weight of uncomprehended fact . 
Bargain and sale , it taints our religion , our brains , our flags , yours and mine , Knowles , with the rest . 
There was a smothered look of pain on the coarse face the school master's words were sinking deeper than he knew . 
No , father , said Margret , hastily ending his quotation , io non averei creduto , che vita tanta n' avesse disfatta . 
Skilful Margret ! The broil must have been turbid in the old man's brain which the grand , slow stepping music of the Florentine could not calm . 
She had learned that long ago , and used it as a nurse does some old song to quiet her pettish infant . 
Do not believe , then , child , he said , after a pause . 
It is a noble doubt , in Dante or in you . 
The Doctor had turned away she could not see his face . 
The angry scorn was gone from the old master's countenance it was bent with its usual wistful eagerness on the floor . 
A moment after he looked up with a flickering smile . 
Onorate l' altissmo poeta ! he said , gently lifting his finger to his forehead in a military fashion . 
Where is my cane , Margret ? The Doctor and I will go and walk on the porch before it grows dark . 
The sun had gone down long before , and the stars were out but no one spoke of this . 
Knowles lighted the school master's pipe and his own cigar , and then moved the chairs out of their way , stepping softly that the old man might not hear him . 
Slow , childish tears came into her eyes as she saw it for the school master was blind . 
This had been their regular walk every evening , since it grew too cold for them to go down under the lindens . 
Only the men's footsteps broke the silence , passing and repassing the window . 
One could hear it , like some huge giant moaning in his sleep , at times , and see broad patches of steel blue glittering through the thick apple trees and the bushes . 
Her mother had fallen into a doze . 
Margret looked at her , thinking how sallow the plump , fair face had grown , and how faded the kindly blue eyes were now . 
Dim with crying , she knew that , though she never saw her shed a tear . 
Always cheery , going placidly about the house in her gray dress and Quaker cap , as if there were no such things in the world as debt or blindness . 
But Margret knew , though she said nothing . 
The fire on the hearth burned low and clear the old worn furniture stood out cheerfully in the red glow , and threw a maze of twisted shadow on the floor . 
But the glow was all that was cheerful . 
To morrow , when the hard daylight should jeer away the screening shadows , it would unbare a desolate , shabby home . 
Upon the mantel shelf there was a small marble figure , one of the Dancing Graces the other two were gone , gone in pledge . 
This one was left , twirling her foot , and stretching out her hands in a dreary sort of ecstasy , with no one to respond . 
Only for a moment the morbid fancy hurt her . 
The red glow was healthier , suited her temperament better . 
She chose to fancy the house as it had been once , should be again , please God . 
She chose to see the old comfort and the old beauty which the poor school master had gathered about their home . 
It was well , perhaps , that he was blind , he knew so little of what had come on them . 
There , where the black marks were on the wall , there had hung two pictures . 
Margret and her father religiously believed them to be a Tintoret and Copley . 
Well , they were gone now . 
He had been used to dust them with a light brush every morning , himself , but now he said always , You can clean the pictures to day , Margret . 
Be careful , my child . 
And Margret would remember the greasy Irishman who had tucked them under his arm , and flung them into a cart , her blood growing hotter in her veins . 
It was the same through all the house there was not a niche in the bare rooms that did not recall a something gone , something that should return . 
She willed that , that evening , standing by the dim fire . 
What women will , whose eyes are slow , attentive , still , as this Margret's , usually comes to pass . 
The red fire glow suited her another glow , warming her floating fancy , mingled with it , giving her every day purpose the trait of heroism . 
She , too , her quiet face stirred with a simple , childish smile , like her father's . 
Why , mother ! she said , stroking down the gray hair under the cap , shall you sleep here all night ? laughing . 
A cheery , tender laugh , this woman's was , seldom heard , not far from tears . 
Just then , a broad , high shouldered man , in a gray flannel shirt , and shoes redolent of the stable , appeared at the door . 
Kittle's b'ilin' , he announced , flinging in the information as a general gratuity . 
That will do , Joel , said Mrs. Howth . 
Be gentle , but let them know their place , my dear ! The class having its type and exponent in Joel , stopped at the door , and hitched up its suspenders . 
That will DO , Joel , with a stern suavity . 
Some idea was in Joel's head under the brush of red hair , probably the anarchic element . 
Uh was wishin' toh read the G'zette . 
With which intent , Joel , in company with five thousand other sovereigns , consulted , as definitive oracle , The Daily Gazette of Towbridge . 
The school master need not have grumbled for the old time feodality in the days of Warwick and of The Daily Gazette was not so widely different as he and Joel thought . 
It brightened and reddened her face when she came in to put the last dish on the table , a cosy , snug table , set for four . 
Heroic dreams with poets , I suppose , make them unfit for food other than some feast such as Eve set for the angel . 
But then Margret was no poet . 
So , with the kindling of her hope , its healthful light struck out , and warmed and glorified these common things . 
Wasn't it all part of the fresh , hopeful glow burning in her consciousness ? It brightened and deepened . 
It blotted out the hard , dusty path of the future , and showed warm and clear the success at the end . 
Not much to show , you think . 
The glow deepened , as she thought of it . 
It was strange , too , that , with the deep , slow moving nature of this girl , she should have striven so eagerly to throw this light over the future . 
Commoner natures have done more and hoped less . 
It was a poor gift , you think , this of the labour of a life for so plain a duty hardly heroic . 
She thrust out of sight all possible life that might have called her true self into being , and clung to this present shallow duty and shallow reward . 
Pitiful and vain so to cling ! It is the way of women . 
Even the pleasant cheery talk that pleased her father so was but surface deep , he knew . 
The woman he must conquer for his great end lay beneath , dark and cold . 
It was only for that end he cared for her . 
Through what cold depths of solitude her soul breathed faintly mattered little . 
Did he hold the power still ? He wondered . 
Meanwhile she sat there , unread . 
The evening came on , slow and cold . 
Life itself , the Doctor thought , impatiently , was cool and tardy here among the hills . 
Even he fell into the tranquil tone , and chafed under it . 
Nowhere else did the evening gray and sombre into the mysterious night impalpably as here . 
The quiet , wide and deep , folded him in , forced his trivial heat into silence and thought . 
The world seemed to think there . 
This man's heart was unbelieving he chafed in the oppressive quiet it was unfeeling mockery to a sick and hungry world , a dead torpor of indifference . 
He was blind to the prophecy written on the earth since the day God first bade it tell thwarted man of the great To Morrow . 
He turned from the night in doors . 
Human hearts were his proper study . 
The old house , he thought , slept with the rest . 
One did not wonder that the pendulum of the clock swung long and slow . 
The frantic , nervous haste of town clocks chorded better with the pulse of human life . 
Yet life in the veins of these people flowed slow and cool their sorrows and joys were few and life long . 
The enduring air suited this woman , Margret Howth . 
Whatever power was in the tide should be his , in its entirety . 
Was not his aim high , the highest ? It was his right . 
Margret , looking up , saw the man's eye fixed on her . 
She sat down by the lamp and began to read to her father , as usual . 
Her mother put away her knitting Joel came in half asleep the Doctor put out his everlasting cigar , and listened , as he did everything else , intently . 
It was an old story that she read , the story of a man who walked the fields and crowded streets of Galilee eighteen hundred years ago . 
Knowles , with his heated brain , fancied that the silence without in the night grew deeper , that the slow moving air stopped in its course to listen . 
Perhaps the simple story carried a deeper meaning to these brooding mountains and solemn sky than to the purblind hearts within . 
It was a far off story to them , very far off . 
The old school master heard it with a lowered head , with the proud obedience with which a cavalier would receive his leader's orders . 
Was not the leader a knights the knight of truest courage ? All that was high , chivalric in the old man sprang up to own him Lord . 
That he not only preached to , but ate and drank with publicans and sinners , was a requirement of his mission nowadays . 
Joel heard the good word with a bewildered consciousness of certain rules of honesty to be observed next day , and a maze of crowns and harps shining somewhere beyond . 
As for any immediate connection between the teachings of this book and The Daily Gazette , it was pure blasphemy to think of it . 
The Lord held those old Jews in His hand , of course but as for the election next month , that was quite another thing . 
If Joel thrust the history out of the touch of common life , the Doctor brought it down , and held it there on trial . 
To him it was the story of a Reformer who , eighteen centuries ago , had served his day . 
Could he serve this day ? Could he ? The need was desperate . 
Was there anything in this Christianity , freed from bigotry , to work out the awful problem which the ages had left for America to solve ? He doubted it . 
People called this old Knowles an infidel , said his brain was as unnatural and distorted as his body . 
God , looking down into his heart that night , saw the savage wrestling there , and judged him with other eyes than theirs . 
The story stood alive in his throbbing brain demanding hearing . 
You and I have other work to do than to listen , pleasanter . 
By the reality , the peril of the world's instant need , he tried the offered help from Calvary . 
It was the work of years , not of this night . 
Perhaps , if they who preach Christ crucified had doubted him as this man did , their work in the coming heaven might be higher , and ours , who hear them . 
When the girl had finished reading , she went out into the cool air . 
The Doctor passed her without notice . 
He went , in his lumbering way , down the hill into the city glad to go the trustful , waiting quiet oppressed , taunted him . 
It sent him back more mad against Destiny , his heart more bitter in its great pity . 
Let him go to the great city , with its stifling gambling hells , its negro pens , its foul cellars his place and work . 
If he stumble blindly against unconquerable ills , and die , others have so stumbled and so died . 
Do you think their work is lost ? Margret stood looking down at the sloping moors and fog . 
She , too , had her place and work . 
She thought that night she saw it clearly , and kept her eyes fixed on it , as I said . 
They plodded steadily down the wide years opening before her . 
Whatever slow , unending toil lay in them , whatever hungry loneliness , or coarseness of deed , she saw it all , shrinking from nothing . 
No short task , she knew that . 
She would be old before it was finished , quite an old woman , hard , mechanical , worn out . 
And yet , leaning on the gate , and thinking vacantly , she remembered a time when through that shadow , she believed more in a God than she did now . 
Now , struggle as she would for warmth or healthy hopes , the world was gray and silent . 
Her defeated woman's nature called it so , bitterly . 
Christ was a dim , ideal power , heaven far off . 
She doubted if it held anything as real as that which she had lost . 
As if to bring back the old times more vividly to her , there happened one of those curious little coincidences with which Fate , we think , has nothing to do . 
She heard a quick step along the clay road , and a muddy little terrier jumped up , barking , beside her . 
She stopped with a suddenness strange in her slow movements . 
TIGER ! she said , stroking its head with passionate eagerness . 
The dog licked her hand , smelt her clothes to know if she were the same it was two years since he had seen her . 
She sat there , softly stroking him . 
Presently there was a sound of wheels jogging down the road , and a voice singing snatches of some song , one of those cheery street songs that the boys whistle . 
It was a low , weak voice , but very pleasant . 
Margret heard it through the dark she kissed the dog with a strange paleness on her face , and stood up , quiet , attentive as before . 
Tiger still kept licking her hand , as it hung by her side it was cold , and trembled as he touched it . 
She waited a moment , then pushed him from her , as if his touch , even , caused her to break some vow . 
He whined , but she hurried away , not waiting to know how he came , or with whom . 
Knowles had seen her face as she looked back at him , he would have thought there were depths in her nature which his probing eyes had never reached . 
The wheels came close , and directly a cart stopped at the gate . 
It was one of those little wagons that hucksters drive only this seemed to be a home made affair , patched up with wicker work and bits of board . 
It was piled up with baskets of vegetables , eggs , and chickens , and on a broken bench in the middle sat the driver , a woman . 
You could not help laughing , when you looked at the whole turn out , it had such a make shift look altogether . 
The reins were twisted rope , the wheels uneven . 
The donkey that drew it was bony and blind of one eye but he winked the other knowingly at you , to ask if you saw the joke of the thing . 
Even the voice of the owner of the establishment , chirruping some idle song , as I told you , was one of the cheeriest sounds you ever heard . 
Joel , up at the barn , forgot his dignity to salute it with a prolonged Hillo ! and presently appeared at the gate . 
I'm late , Joel , said the weak voice . 
It sounded like a child's , near at hand . 
Is that Lois ? said Mrs. Howth , coming to the gate . 
But the child , as she called her , had scrambled off the cart , and stood beside her , leaning on the wheel , for she was helplessly crippled . 
I thought you would be down to night . 
I put some coffee on the stove . 
Bring it out , Joel . 
Mrs. Howth never put up the shield between herself and this member of the class , because , perhaps , she was so wretchedly low in the social scale . 
However , I suppose she never gave a reason for it even to herself . 
Nobody could help being kind to Lois , even if he tried . 
Joel brought the coffee with more readiness than he would have waited on Mrs. Howth . 
Barney will be jealous , he said , patting the bare ribs of the old donkey , and glancing wistfully at his mistress . 
Give him his supper , surely , she said , taking the hint . 
It was a real treat to see how Lois enjoyed her supper , sipping and tasting the warm coffee , her face in a glow , like an epicure over some rare Falernian . 
You would think , perhaps , pitifully , that not much pleasure or warmth would ever go down so low , within her reach . 
She laughed at it , when other people did if it vexed her at all , she never showed it . 
She had turned back her calico sun bonnet , and stood looking up at Mrs. Howth and Joel , laughing as they talked with her . 
The face would have startled you on so old and stunted a body . 
It was a child's face , quick , eager , with that pitiful beauty you always see in deformed people . 
Her eyes , I think , were the kindliest , the hopefullest I ever saw . 
Nothing but the livid thickness of her skin betrayed the fact that set Lois apart from even the poorest poor , the taint in her veins of black blood . 
Whoy ! be n't this Tiger ? said Joel , as the dog ran yelping about him . 
How comed yoh with him , Lois ? Tiger an' his master's good friends o' mine , you remember they allus was . 
An' he's back now , Mr. Holmes , been back for a month . 
Margret , walking in the porch with her father , stopped . 
Are you tired , father ? It is late . 
And you are worn out , poor child ! It was selfish in me to forget . 
Good night , dear ! Margret kissed him , laughing cheerfully , as she led him to his room door . 
He lingered , holding her dress . 
Perhaps it will be easier for you to morrow than it was to day ? hesitating . 
I am sure it will . 
To morrow will be sure to be better than to day . 
She left him , and went away with a step that did not echo the promise of her words . 
Joel , meanwhile , consulted apart with his mistress . 
Of course , she said , emphatically . 
You must stay until morning , Lois . 
Joel will toss you up a bed in the loft . 
The queer little body hesitated . 
I can stay , she said , at last . 
It's his watch at the mill to night . 
Whose watch ? demanded Joel . 
Joel caught himself in a whistle . 
He's very stiddy , Joel , as stiddy as yoh . 
I am very glad he has come back , Lois , said Mrs. Howth , gravely . 
Yet Joe Yare , fresh from two years in the penitentiary , was not exactly the person whom society usually welcomes with open arms . 
Knowles had said he was as ready a stoker as any in the furnace rooms . 
The sound of her weak , eager voice was silent presently , and nothing broke the solitary cold of the night . 
The morning , when it came long after , came quiet and cool , the warm red dawn helplessly smothered under great waves of gray cloud . 
Margret , looking out into the thick fog , lay down wearily again , closing her eyes . 
What was the day to her ? Very slowly the night was driven back . 
Off in the east a stifled red film groped through . 
Was the old struggle of years before coming back ? Was it all to go over again ? She was worn out . 
She had been quiet in these two years what had gone before she never looked back upon but it made her thankful for even this stupid quiet . 
She did not think of the love she had given up as a dream , as verse makers or sham people do she knew it to be the quick seed of her soul . 
She cried for it even now , with all the fierce strength of her nature it was the best she knew through it she came nearest to God . 
Let it be she could not bear the struggle again . 
She went on dressing herself in a dreary , mechanical way . 
Once , a bitter laugh came on her face , as she looked into the glass , and saw the dead , dull eyes , and the wrinkle on her forehead . 
It is a trial we laugh at . 
I think the quick fagots at the stake were fitter subjects for laughter than the slow gnawing hunger in the heart of many a slighted woman or a selfish man . 
She loathed herself as one whom God had thought unworthy of every woman's right , to love and be loved . 
She went to the window , looking blankly out into the gray cold . 
When she left her room and went down , the same unaltered quiet that had baffled Knowles steadied her step and cooled her eyes . 
It did not matter life was short she could thank God for that at least . 
She opened the house door . 
It was a simple story , yet one which she dared not tell to herself for it was not altogether for her father's sake she had made the sacrifice . 
Why should it not be dearer ? She thought , remembering the man as he was , a master among men fit to be a master . 
She , what was she compared to him ? He was back again she must see him . 
So she stood there with this persistent dread running through her brain . 
Suddenly , in the lane by the house , she heard a voice talking to Joel , the huckster girl . 
What a weak , cheery sound it was in the cold and fog ! It touched her curiously broke through her morbid thought as anything true and healthy should have done . 
Poor Lois ! she thought , with an eager pity , forgetting her own intolerable future for the moment , as she gathered up some breakfast and went with it down the lane . 
The hills , the massed woods , the mist opposed their immovable front , scornfully . 
Margret did not notice the silent contest until she reached the lane . 
The girl Lois , sitting in her cart , was looking , attentive , at the slow surge of the shadows , and the slower lifting of the slanted rays . 
T' mornin' comes grand here , Miss Marg'et ! she said , lowering her voice . 
Margret said nothing in reply the morning , she thought , was gray and cold , like her own life . 
Once , looking at the girl , she thought with a half smile how oddly clean she was . 
Looking up , she saw the girl's brown eyes fixed on her face . 
They were singularly soft , brooding brown . 
Ye 'r' goin' to th' mill , Miss Marg'et ? she asked , in a half whisper . 
You never go there now , Lois ? No , 'm . 
The girl shuddered , and then tried to hide it in a laugh . 
Margret walked on beside her , her hand on the cart's edge . 
What artist sense had she , what could she know the ignorant huckster of the eternal laws of beauty or grandeur ? Nothing . 
It was an idle fancy Margret laughed at herself for it , and turned to watch the slow morning struggle which Lois followed with such eager eyes . 
Two or three coy mist clouds , soon converted to the new allegiance , drifted giddily about , mere flakes of rosy blushes . 
The victory of the day came slowly , but sure , and then the full morning flushed out , fresh with moisture and light and delicate perfume . 
Victory it was in the cold , pure ether filling the heavens , in the solemn gladness of the hills . 
From the sun himself , come forth as a bridegroom from his chamber , to the flickering raindrops on the road side mullein , the world seemed to rejoice , exultant in victory . 
Homely , cheerier sounds broke the outlined grandeur of the morning , on which Margret looked wearily . 
Lois lost none of them no morbid shadow of her own balked life kept their meaning from her . 
The light played on the heaped vegetables in the old cart the bony legs of the donkey trotted on with fresh vigour . 
Not a golden dandelion on the road side , not a gurgle of the plashing brown water from the well troughs , which did not give a quicker pleasure to the glowing face . 
Its curious content stung the woman walking by her side . 
What secret of recompense had the poor wretch found ? Your father is here , Lois , she said carelessly , to break the silence . 
I saw him at the mill yesterday . 
He's home , Miss Marg'et , yes . 
An' it's all right wid him . 
Things allus do come right , some time , she added , in a reflective tone , brushing a fly off Barney's ear . 
Always ? Who brings them right for you , Lois ? The Master , she said , turning with an answering smile . 
The owner of the mill was not a more real verity to this girl than the Master of whom she spoke with such quiet knowledge . 
Are things right in the mill ? she said , testing her . 
A shadow came on her face her eyes wandered uncertainly , as if her weak brain were confused , only for a moment . 
It's a black place , th' mill , she said , in a low voice . 
It was a good while I was there frum seven year old till sixteen . 
'T seemed longer t' me 'n 't was . 
'T seemed as if I'd been there allus , jes' forever , yoh know . 
'Fore I went in , I had the rickets , they say that's what ails me . 
'T hurt my head , they've told me , made me different frum other folks . 
She stopped a moment , with a dumb , hungry look in her eyes . 
After a while she looked at Margret furtively , with a pitiful eagerness . 
Miss Marg'et , I think there BE something wrong in my head . 
Did YOH ever notice it ? Margret put her hand kindly on the broad , misshapen forehead . 
Something is wrong everywhere , Lois , she said , absently . 
She did not see the slow sigh with which the girl smothered down whatever hope had risen just then , listened half attentive as the huckster maundered on . 
It was th' mill , she said at last . 
I kind o' grew into that place in them years seemed to me like as I was part o' th' engines , somehow . 
Th' air used to be thick in my mouth , black wi' smoke 'n' wool 'n' smells . 
In them years I got dazed in my head , I think . 
'T was th' air 'n' th' work . 
'T got so that th' noise o' th' looms went on in my head night 'n' day , allus thud , thud . 
They was very good to me , th' hands was , very good . 
Ther' 's lots o' th' Master's people down there , though they never heard His name preachers don't go there . 
But He'll see to 't . 
He'll not min' their cursin' o' Him , seein' they don't know His face , 'n' thinkin' He belongs to th' gentry . 
I knew it wud come right wi' me , when times was th' most bad . 
But above all , the Hope rose clear , simple the trust in the Master and shone in her scarred face , through her marred senses . 
I knew it wud come right , allus . 
So He sent Mr. Holmes along . 
Then it come right ! Margret did not speak . 
Did yoh ever see my room , Miss Marg'et ? Her face lighted suddenly with its peculiar childlike smile . 
No ? Yoh'll come some day , surely ? It's a pore place , yoh'll think but it's got th' air , th' air . 
She stopped to breathe the cold morning wind , as if she thought to find in its fierce freshness the life and brains she had lost . 
Ther' 's places in them alleys 'n' dark holes , Miss Marg'et , like th' openin's to hell , with th' thick smells 'n' th' sights yoh'd see . 
She went back with a terrible clinging pity to the Gehenna from which she had escaped . 
The ill of life was real enough to her , a hungry devil down in those alleys and dens . 
Miss Marg'et ! Her face flashed . 
Well , Lois ? Th' Master has His people 'mong them very lowest , that's not for such as yoh to speak to . 
Ther' 's things th' Master likes in them , 'n' it'll come right , it'll come right at last they'll have a chance somewhere . 
Margret did not speak let the poor girl sob herself into quiet . 
What had she to do with this gulf of pain and wrong ? Her own higher life was starved , thwarted . 
Could it be that the blood of these her brothers called against HER from the ground ? No wonder that the huckster girl sobbed , she thought , or talked heresy . 
It was not an easy thing to see a mother drink herself into the grave . 
And yet was she to blame ? Her Virginian blood was cool , high bred she had learned conservatism in her cradle . 
Her life in the West had not yet quickened her pulse . 
So she put aside whatever social mystery or wrong faced her in this girl , just as you or I would have done . 
She had her own pain to bear . 
Where was the help ? She was free , and liberty , Dr . 
They went on down the road , through the corn fields sometimes , or on the river bank , or sometimes skirting the orchards or barn yards of the farms . 
They both leave their mark on barns or fields , I can tell you ! The two women were talking all the way . 
In all his life Dr . 
There were no morbid shadows in this Lois's life , she saw . 
Her pains and pleasures were intensely real , like those of her class . 
If there were latent powers in her distorted brain , smothered by hereditary vice of blood , or foul air and life , she knew nothing of it . 
She never probed her own soul with fierce self scorn , as this quiet woman by her side did accepted , instead , the passing moment , with keen enjoyment . 
For the rest , childishly trusted the Master . 
Then everybody along the road knew Lois , and she knew everybody , and there was a mutual liking and perpetual joking , not very refined , perhaps , but hearty and kind . 
It was a new side of life for Margret . 
She had no time for thoughts of self sacrifice , or chivalry , ancient or modern , watching it . 
As to the amount that cart carried , it was a perpetual mystery to Lois . 
This cart 'll be right side up fur years to come , she would assert , shaking her head . 
It 's got no more notion o' givin' up than me nor Barney , not a bit . 
But he had his grand battle piece on hand then , and after that he went the way of all geniuses , and died down into colourer for a photographer . 
He met them , that day , out by the stone quarry , and touched his hat as he returned Lois's Good morning , and took a couple of great pawpaws from her . 
She was a woman , you see , and he had some of the school master's old fashioned notions about women . 
He was a sickly looking soul . 
One day Lois had heard him say that there were pawpaws on his mother's place in Ohio so after that she always brought him some every day . 
She was one of those people who must give , if it is nothing better than a Kentucky banana . 
After they passed the stone quarry , they left the country behind them , going down the stubble covered hills that fenced in the town . 
Even in the narrow streets , and through the warehouses , the strong , dewy air had quite blown down and off the fog and dust . 
Lois and her cart , fresh with country breath hanging about them , were not so out of place , after all . 
Lois was Lois in town or country . 
Some subtile power lay in the coarse , distorted body , in the pleading child's face , to rouse , wherever they went , the same curious , kindly smile . 
No human soul refused to answer its summons . 
A something in them never to be lost . 
Margret left her , turning into the crowded street leading to the part of the town where the factories lay . 
The throng of anxious faced men and women jostled and pushed , but she passed through them with a different heart from yesterday's . 
As she went down the crooked maze of dingy lanes , she could hear Lois's little cracked bell far off it sounded like a Christmas song to her . 
She half smiled , remembering how sometimes in her distempered brain the world had seemed a gray , dismal Dance of Death . 
She noticed that the unfortunate chicken was making its heart glad over a piece of fresh earth covered with damp moss . 
Knowles stopped to look at it when he came , passing her with a surly nod . 
So your master's not forgotten you , he snarled , while the blind old hen cocked her one eye up at him . 
Pike , the manager , had brought in some bills . 
Who's its master ? he said , curiously , stopping by the door . 
Holmes , he feeds it every morning . 
The Doctor drawled out the words with a covert sneer , watching the cold face bending over the desk , meantime . 
Bah ! it's the first thing he ever fed , then , besides himself . 
Chickens must lie nearer his heart than men . 
Knowles scowled at him he had no fancy for Pike's scurrilous gossip . 
The quiet face was unmoved . 
When he heard the manager's foot on the ladder without , he tested it again . 
He had a vague suspicion which he was determined to verify . 
Holmes , he said , carelessly , has an affinity for animals . 
Adam must have been some such man as he , when the Lord gave him dominion over the fish of the sea , and over the fowl of the air . 
The hand paused courteously a moment , then resumed its quick , cool movement over the page . 
If there were such a reality as mastership , that man was born to rule . 
Pike will find him harder to cheat than me , when he takes possession here . 
He came here to take my place in the mills , buy me out , articles will be signed in a day or two . 
I know what you think , no , not worth a dollar . 
Only brains and a soul , and he 's sold them at a high figure , threw his heart in , the purchaser being a lady . 
It was light , I fancy , starved out , long ago . 
The old man's words were spurted out in the bitterness of scorn . 
The girl listened with a cool incredulity in her eyes , and went back to her work . 
Miss Herne is the lady , my partner's daughter . 
Herne and Holmes they'll call the firm . 
He is here every , day , counting future profit . 
Nothing could be read on the face so he left her , cursing , as he went , men who put themselves up at auction , worse than Orleans slaves . 
Margret laughed to herself at his passion as for the story he hinted , it was absurd . 
She forgot it in a moment . 
Two or three gentlemen down in one of the counting rooms , just then , looked at the story from another point of view . 
They were talking low , out of hearing from the clerks . 
It's a good thing for Holmes , said one , a burly , farmer like man , who was choosing specimens of wool . 
Just half the concern he takes . 
A lady in the case ? Of course . 
HE comes down with the dust as dowry . 
'Stonishin' how he's made his way up . 
If money 's what he wants in this world , he's making a long stride now to 't . 
The young doctor lighted his cigar , asserting that Ba George , some low people did get on , re markably ! Mary Herne , now , was best catch in town . 
The wool buyer hesitated with a puzzled look . 
No , he said , slowly Stephen Holmes is not miserly . 
I've knowed him since a boy . 
To buy place , power , perhaps , eh ? Yet not that , neither , he added , hastily . 
and would have had him the best office in the State before this , only he was so cursedly indifferent . 
No man cares much for stepping stones in themselves , said Vandyke , half to himself . 
Great fault of American society , especially in the West , said the young aristocrat . 
Stepping stones lie low , as my reverend friend suggests impudence ascends merit and refinement scorn such dirty paths , with a mournful remembrance of the last dime in his waistcoat pocket . 
Mad as a March hare , contemptuously muttered the doctor . 
His reverend friend gave him a look , after which he was silent . 
I wish to the Lord some one would persuade him out of it , persisted the wool man , earnestly looking at the attentive face of his listener . 
We can't spare old Knowles's brain or heart while he ruins himself . 
It's something of a Communist fraternity I don't know the name , but I know the thing . 
Very hard common sense shone out of his eyes just then at the clergyman , whom he suspected of being one of Knowles's abettors . 
There's two ways for 'em to end . 
It isn't easy to believe , Sir , but it's true . 
I've seen every one of them the United States can produce . 
It's FACTS , Sir and facts , as Lord Bacon says , are the basis of every sound speculation . 
The last sentence was slowly brought out , as quotations were not exactly his forte , but , as he said afterwards , You see , that nailed the parson . 
You'll find no such experiment in the Bible , threw in the young doctor , alluding to serious things as a peace offering to his reverend friend . 
One , I believe , dryly . 
Well , broke in the farmer , folding up his wool , that's neither here nor there . 
This experiment of Knowles's is like nothing known since the Creation . 
He spends his days now hunting out the gallows birds out of the dens in town here , and they're all to be transported into the country to start a new Arcadia . 
A few men and women like himself , but the bulk is from the dens , I tell you . 
His mother was a half breed Creek , with all the propensities of the redskins to fire water and 'itching palms . 
Here he is , maliciously whispered the woolman . 
No , it's Holmes , he added , after the doctor had started into a more respectful posture , and glanced around frightened . 
The others , on the contrary , put on their hats and sauntered away into the street . 
The day broadened hotly the shadows of the Lombardy poplars curdling up into a sluggish pool of black at their roots along the dry gutters . 
husked corn for his wife , composing , meanwhile , a page of his essay on the Sirventes de Bertrand de Born . 
The New Testament was , well , hardly suited for the emergency did not , somehow , chime in with the lesson of the hour . 
but talked as if the millennium were un fait accompli , and he had leisure to go and hammer at the poor dead old troubles of Luther's time . 
Perhaps , even if the listening angel did not grant the prayer , he marked down the stall at least , as a something done for eternity . 
Margret , through the stifling air , worked steadily alone in the dusty office , her face bent over the books , never changing but once . 
It was a trifle then yet , when she looked back afterwards , the trifle was all that gave the day a name . 
The room shook , as I said , with the thunderous , incessant sound of the engines and the looms she scarcely heard it , being used to it . 
She heard it through the noise in the far distance it came slowly nearer , up to the door without , passed it , going down the echoing plank walk . 
The girl sat quietly , looking out at the dead brick wall . 
The slow step fell on her brain like the sceptre of her master if Knowles had looked in her face then , he would have seen bared the secret of her life . 
Holmes had gone by , unconscious of who was within the door . 
She had not seen him it was nothing but a step she heard . 
The man who held it in his grasp went on carelessly , not knowing that the mere sound of his step had raised it as from the dead . 
She , and her right , and her pain , were nothing to him now , she remembered , staring out at the taunting hot sky . 
Life was no morbid nightmare now her weak woman's heart found it near , cruel . 
Vulgar American life ? He thought it a life more potent , more tragic in its history and prophecy , than any that has gone before . 
People called him a fanatic . 
On the very faces of those who sneered at him he found some trace of failure , something that his heart carried up to God with a loud and exceeding bitter cry . 
There were places where it did not shine down in the fetid cellars , in the slimy cells of the prison yonder what riddles of life lay there he dared not think of . 
God knows how the man groped for the light , for any voice to make earth and heaven clear to him . 
There was another light by which the world was seen that day , rarer than the sunshine , and purer . 
It fell on the dense crowds , upon the just and the unjust . 
It went into the fogs of the fetid dens from which the coarser light was barred , into the deepest mires of body where a soul could wallow , and made them clear . 
I have no name for the light it has a name , yonder . 
Not many eyes were clear to see its shining that day and if they did , it was as through a glass , darkly . 
Yet it belonged to us also , in the old time , the time when men could hear the voice of the Lord God in the garden in the cool of the day . 
It is God's light now alone . 
Yet Lois caught faint glimpses , I think , sometimes , of its heavenly clearness . 
She liked clear , vital colours , this girl , the crimsons and blues . 
They answered her , somehow . 
There were things in the world that like herself were marred , did not understand , were hungry to know the gray sky , the mud streets , the tawny lichens . 
She cried sometimes , looking at them , hardly knowing why she could not help it , with a vague sense of loss . 
It seemed at those times so dreary for them to be alive , or for her . 
She had no self poised artist sense , this Lois , knew nothing of Nature's laws , as you do . 
I do not know , not knowing how sham or real a thing you mean by artistic insight . 
But I do know that the clear light I told you of shone for this girl dimly through this beauty of form and colour alive . 
The Life , rather and ignorant , with no words for her thoughts , she believed in it as the Highest that she knew . 
So she knew , too , the Master in whom she believed , saw Him in everything that lived , more real than all beside . 
Yet even more real than this . 
There was no pain nor temptation down in those dark cellars where she went that He had not borne , not one . 
She knew that well ! So it was that He took part in her humble daily life , and became more real to her day by day . 
Yet they were there all the time , in her cheery patience , if nothing more . 
Whatever good there was in the vilest face , she was sure to see it . 
The light made her poor eyes strong for that . 
If , as Knowles thought , the world was a dreary discord , she knew nothing of it . 
From the houses near you could catch a faint smell of supper very friendly people those were in these houses she knew them all well . 
The children came out with their faces washed , to play , now the sun was down the oldest of them generally came to sit with her and hear a story . 
After it grew darker , you would see the girls in their neat blue calicoes go sauntering down the street with their sweethearts for a walk . 
There was old Polston and his son Sam coming home from the coal pits , as black as ink , with their little tin lanterns on their caps . 
Most likely they would call Lois down , or come over themselves , for they were the most sociable , cosiest old couple you ever knew . 
and she always had them ready in broken jugs inside . 
They were good , kind girls , every one of them , had taken it in turn to sit up with Lois last winter all the time she had the rheumatism . 
She never forgot that time , never once . 
It hurt Lois more than anything else they could have done . 
But she bustled about noisily , so that he would not notice it . 
He need not have doubted Lois's faith in him . 
Whatever the rest did , she believed in him she always had believed in him , through all the dark years , when he was at home , and in the penitentiary . 
They were gone now , never to come back . 
But they had very cheerful little suppers there by themselves in the odd , bare little room , as homely and clean as Lois herself . 
Still the far sounds of the town came up cheerfully , while she folded up her knitting , it being dark , thinking how happy an ending this was to a happy day . 
Yet , sitting there , looking out into the listening night , the poor child's face grew slowly pale as she heard it . 
SHE ! what was she ? The pain and wants of the world must be going up to God in that sound , she thought . 
There was something more in it , an unknown meaning of a great content that her shattered brain struggled to grasp . 
Her heart ached with a wild , restless longing . 
She had no words for the vague , insatiate hunger to understand . 
It was because she was ignorant and low , perhaps others could know . 
She thought her Master was speaking . 
She thought that unknown Joy linked all earth and heaven together , and made it plain . 
So she hid her face in her hands , and listened , while the low harmony shivered through the air , unheeded by others , with the message of God to man . 
Not comprehending , it may be , the poor girl , hungry still to know . 
Yet , when she looked up , there were warm tears in her eyes , and her scarred face was bright with a sad , deep content and love . 
I wish I had some brilliant dyes . 
I wish , with all my heart , I could take you back to that Once upon a time in which the souls of our grandmothers delighted , the time which Dr . 
in many places in the world some of my friends have described them in prose and verse . 
I only mean to say that I never was there I was born unlucky . 
I am willing to do my best , but I live in the commonplace . 
If I look up from my paper now , I shall be just as apt to see our dog and his kennel as the white sky stained with blood and Tyrian purple . 
I never saw a full blooded saint or sinner in my life . 
The coldest villain I ever knew was the only son of his mother , and she a widow , and a kinder son never lived . 
As for heroines , of course I have seen beautiful women , and good as fair . 
The most beautiful is delicate and pure enough for a type of the Madonna , and has a heart almost as warm and holy . 
They are mixed generally , and not unlike their married sisters , so far as I can see . 
Then as to men , certainly I know heroes . 
One man , I knew , as high a chevalier in heart as any Bayard of them all one of those souls simple and gentle as a woman , tender in knightly honour . 
He was an old man , with a rusty brown coat and rustier wig , who spent his life in a dingy village office . 
You poets would have laughed at him . 
Well , well , his history never will be written . 
The kind , sad , blue eyes are shut now . 
In all the others , of course , it is very different . 
We are in Indiana , remember . 
The sunlight was pure that morning , powerful , tintless , the true wine of life for body or spirit . 
Stephen Holmes knew that , being a man of delicate animal instincts , and so used it , just as he had used the dumb bells in the morning . 
Suffered in a man , according to his creed , the will being dominant , and all influences , such as beauty , pain , religion , permitted to act under orders . 
It was a peculiar landscape , like the man who looked at it , of a thoroughly American type . 
A range of sharp , dark hills , with a sombre depth of green shadow in the clefts , and on the sides massed forests of scarlet and flame and crimson . 
Above , the sharp peaks of stone rose into the wan blue , wan and pale themselves , and wearing a certain air of fixed calm , the type of an eternal quiet . 
Beyond it yawned the opening to the great West , the Prairies . 
Not the dreary deadness here , as farther west . 
Its limitless torpor weighed on the brain the eyes ached , stretching to find some break before the dull russet faded into the amber of the horizon and was lost . 
An American landscape of few features , simple , grand in outline as a face of one of the early gods . 
Suddenly a low wind from the far Pacific coast struck from the amber line where the sun went down . 
The wind struck so broad and fiercely in Holmes's face that he caught his breath . 
Well , this fierce , masterful freedom was good for the soul , sometimes , doubtless . 
It was old Knowles's vital air . 
He wondered if the old man would succeed in his hobby , if he could make the slavish beggars and thieves in the alleys yonder comprehend this fierce freedom . 
They craved leave to live on sufferance now , not knowing their possible divinity . 
It was a desperate remedy , this sense of unchecked liberty but their disease was desperate . 
As for himself , he did not need it that element was not lacking . 
In a mere bodily sense , to be sure . 
Yes , the cold rigor of this new life had already worn off much of the clogging weight of flesh , strengthened the muscles . 
Six months more in the West would toughen the fibres to iron . 
He raised an iron weight that lay on the steps , carelessly testing them . 
For the rest , he was going back here something of the cold , loose freshness got into his brain , he believed . 
In the two years of absence his power of concentration had been stronger , his perceptions more free from prejudice , gaining every day delicate point , acuteness of analysis . 
He drew a long breath of the icy air , coarse with the wild perfume of the prairie . 
No , his temperament needed a subtiler atmosphere than this , rarer essence than mere brutal freedom The East , the Old World , was his proper sphere for self development . 
He would go as soon as he could command the means , leaving all clogs behind . 
There was a fierce warring in his brain for a moment . 
Then he brushed his Kossuth hat with his arm , and put it on , looking out at the landscape again . 
Somehow its meaning was dulled to him . 
Just then a muddy terrier came up , and rubbed itself against his knee . 
Why , Tige , old boy ! he said , stooping to pat it kindly . 
The hard , shallow look faded out he half smiled , looking in the dog's eyes . 
A curious smile , unspeakably tender and sad . 
It was the idiosyncrasy of the man's face , rarely seen there . 
He might have looked with it at a criminal , condemning him to death . 
He sat down on the school house step , which the boys had hacked and whittled rough , and waited for he was there by appointment , to meet Dr . 
Knowles had gone out early in the morning to look at the ground he was going to buy for his Phalanstery , or whatever he chose to call it . 
He was to bring the deed of sale of the mill out with him for Holmes . 
The next day it was to be signed . 
Holmes saw him at last lumbering across the prairie , wiping the perspiration from his forehead . 
Summer or winter , he contrived to be always hot . 
There was a cart drawn by an old donkey coming along beside him . 
Knowles was talking to the driver . 
The old man clapped his hands as stage coachmen do , and drew in long draughts of air , as if there were keen life and promise in every breath . 
She grew quite red with pleasure at seeing Holmes , but went on quickly as the men began to talk . 
It had a clear woody smell , like far off myrrh . 
The Doctor laughed as Holmes took it up . 
An artist's gift , if it is from a mulatto , he said . 
The men were not at ease , for some reason they seized on every trifle to keep off the subject which had brought them together . 
That girl's artist sense is pure , and her religion , down under the perversion and ignorance of her brain . 
Curious , eh ? Look at the top of her head , when you see her , said Holmes . 
It is necessity for such brains to worship . 
They let the fire lick their blood , if they happen to be born Parsees . 
This girl , if she had been a Jew when Christ was born , would have known him as Simeon did . 
Knowles said nothing , only glanced at the massive head of the speaker , with its overhanging brow , square development at the sides , and lowered crown , and smiled significantly . 
Exactly , laughed Holmes , putting his hand on his head . 
Crippled there by my Yorkshire blood , my mother . 
Never mind outside of this life , blood or circumstance matters nothing . 
They walked on slowly towards town . 
There was an embarrassed pause . 
The Doctor went back to Lois for relief . 
I think it is the pain and want of such as she that makes them susceptible to religion . 
The self in them is so starved and humbled that it cannot obscure their eyes they see God clearly . 
Say rather , said Holmes , that the soul is so starved and blind that it cannot recognize itself as God . 
The Doctor's intolerant eye kindled . 
Humph ! So that's your creed ! Not Pantheism . 
Of course you go on with the conjugation I have been , I shall be . 
I , that covers the whole ground , creation , redemption , and commands the hereafter ? It does so , said Holmes , coolly . 
And this wretched huckster carries her deity about her , her self existent soul ? How , in God's name , is her life to set it free ? Holmes said nothing . 
The coarse sneer could not be answered . 
Knowles went on hotly , half to himself , seizing on the new idea fiercely , as men and women do who are yet groping for the truth of life . 
What is it your Novalis says ? The true Shechinah is man . 
You know no higher God ? Pooh ! the idea is old enough it began with Eve . 
It works slowly , Holmes . 
It works slowly , said the other , quietly . 
Faster soon , in America . 
There are yet many ills of life for the divinity within to conquer . 
They could not bear the truth . 
One does not put a weapon into the hands of a man dying of the fetor and hunger of the siege . 
Knowles looked at the pale strength of the iron face . 
God help you , Stephen ! he broke out , his shallow jeering falling off . 
For there IS a God higher than we . 
The ills of life you mean to conquer will teach it to you , Holmes . 
You'll find the Something above yourself , if it's only to curse Him and die . 
Holmes did not smile at the old man's heat , walked gravely , steadily . 
There was a short silence . 
Knowles put his hand gently on the other's arm . 
Stephen , he hesitated , you're a stronger man than I. I know what you are I've watched you from a boy . 
There's not much I know in life , enough to madden me . 
But I do know there's something stronger , some God outside of the mean devil they call Me . 
You'll learn it , boy . 
There's an old story of a man like you and the rest of your sect , and of the vile , mean , crawling things that God sent to bring him down . 
There are such things yet . 
Mean passions in your divine soul , low , selfish things , that will get the better of you , show you what you are . 
You'll do all that man can do . 
But they are coming , Stephen Holmes ! they're coming ! He stopped , startled . 
For Holmes had turned abruptly , glancing over at the city with a strange wistfulness . 
It was over in a moment . 
He resumed the slow , controlling walk beside him . 
They went on in silence into town , and when they did speak , it was on indifferent subjects , not referring to the last . 
The Doctor's heat , as it usually did , boiled out in spasms on trifles . 
Philanthropists , for some curious reason , are not the most amiable members of small families . 
As Holmes took it , they stopped at the great door of the factory . 
He went in alone , Knowles going down the street . 
One trifle , strange in its way , he remembered afterwards . 
Holding the roll of paper in his hand that would make the mill his , he went , in his slow , grave way , down the long passage to the loom rooms . 
There was a crowd of porters and firemen there , as usual , and he thought one of them hastily passed him in the dark passage , hiding behind an engine . 
As the shadow fell on him , his teeth chattered with a chilly shudder . 
He smiled , thinking how superstitious people would say that some one trod on his grave just then , or that Death looked at him , and went on . 
Afterwards he thought of it . 
Going through the office , the fat old book keeper , Huff , stopped him with a story he had been keeping for him all day . 
He liked to tell a story to Holmes he could see into a joke it did a man good to hear a fellow laugh like that . 
Holmes did laugh , for the story was a good one , and stood a moment , then went in , leaving the old fellow chuckling over his desk . 
Perhaps , if the fat old book keeper had known it , he would have said that the man was better than he knew . 
But then , poor Huff ! He passed slowly through the alleys between the great looms . 
Overhead the ceiling looked like a heavy maze of iron cylinders and black swinging bars and wheels , all in swift , ponderous motion . 
It was enough to make a brain dizzy with the clanging thunder of the engines , the whizzing spindles of red and yellow , and the hot daylight glaring over all . 
The looms were watched by women , most of them bold , tawdry girls of fifteen or sixteen , or lean jawed women from the hills , wives of the coal diggers . 
There was a breathless odour of copperas . 
As he went from one room to another up through the ascending stories , he had a vague sensation of being followed . 
Some shadow lurked at times behind the engines , or stole after him in the dark entries . 
Holmes had a room fitted up in the mill , where he slept . 
He went up to it slowly , holding the paper tightly in one hand , glancing at the operatives , the work , through his furtive half shut eye . 
Passing the windows , he did not once look out at the prophetic dream of beauty he had left without . 
In the mill he was of the mill . 
Yet he went slowly , as if he shrank from the task waiting for him . 
Dreary enough he looked , going through the great mill , despite the power in his quiet face . 
The day was the crisis of his life , looked forward to for years he held in his hand a sure passport to fortune . 
Some such idle fancy it may have been that made the man turn from the usual way down a narrow passage into which opened doors from small offices . 
Margret Howth , he had learned to day , was in the first one . 
She used to know it , she was the only one in the world who ever had cared to know it , silly child ! Doubtless she was wiser now . 
And once he had thought Well , well , he was mistaken . 
Poor Margret ! Better as it was . 
They were nothing to each other . 
She had put him from her , and he had suffered himself to be put away . 
It mattered nothing what they thought , but it wounded him intolerably that she should wrong him . 
Yet , with all this , whenever he looked forward to death , it was with the certainty that he should find her there beyond . 
There would be no secrets then she would know then how he had loved her always . 
Loved her ? Yes he need not hide it from himself , surely . 
He was now by the door of the office she was within . 
Little Margret , poor little Margret ! struggling there day after day for the old father and mother . 
What a pale , cold little child she used to be ! such a child ! yet kindling at his look or touch , as if her veins were filled with subtile flame . 
Her soul was like his own , he thought . 
He knew what it was , he only . 
Even now he glowed with a man's triumph to know he held the secret life of this woman bare in his hand . 
No other human power could ever come near her he was secure in possession . 
She had put him from her it was better for both , perhaps . 
He passed the office , not pausing in his slow step . 
Some sudden impulse made him put his hand on the door as he brushed against it just a quick , light touch but it had all the fierce passion of a caress . 
He drew it back as quickly , and went on , wiping a clammy sweat from his face . 
The room he had fitted up for himself was whitewashed and barely furnished it made one's bones ache to look at the iron bedstead and chairs . 
Holmes's natural taste was more glowing , however smothered , than that of any saffron robed Sybarite . 
It needed correction , he knew here was discipline . 
Besides , he had set apart the coming three or four years of his life to make money in , enough for the time to come . 
He would devote his whole strength to that work , and so be sooner done with it . 
Money , or place , or even power , was nothing but a means to him other men valued them because of their influence on others . 
As his work in the world was only the development of himself , it was different , of course . 
He practised self denial constantly to strengthen the benevolent instincts . 
That very morning he had given his last dollar to Joe Byers , a half starved cripple . 
Circumstances had forced it on him , partly . 
He knew what this Self within him was he knew how it had forced him to grope his way up , to give this hungry , insatiate soul air and freedom and knowledge . 
All men around him were doing the same , thrusting and jostling and struggling , up , up . 
It was the American motto , Go ahead mothers taught it to their children the whole system was a scale of glittering prizes . 
He at least saw the higher meaning of the truth he had no low ambitions . 
To lift this self up into a higher range of being when it had done with the uses of this , that was his work . 
He stifled such rebellious promptings , called them morbid . 
He shut the door of his room tightly he had no time to day for lounging visitors . 
For Holmes , quiet and steady , was sought for , if not popular , even in the free and easy West one of those men who are unwillingly masters among men . 
He laid the bill of sale on the table it was an altogether practical matter on which he sat in judgment , but he was going to do nothing rashly . 
A plain business document he took Dr . 
Knowles's share in the factory the payments made with short intervals John Herne was to be his endorser it needed only the names to make it valid . 
Plain enough no hint there of the tacit understanding that the purchase money was a wedding dowry even between Herne and himself it never was openly put into words . 
If he did not marry Miss Herne , the mill was her father's that of course must be spoken of , arranged to morrow . 
If he took it , then ? if he married her ? Holmes had been poor , was miserably poor yet , with the position and habits of a man , of refinement . 
God knows it was not to gratify those tastes that he clutched at this money . 
They were open before him now . 
Money , money , he took the word into his heart as a miser might do . 
With it , he was free from these carking cares that were making his mind foul and muddy . 
If he had money ! Slow , cool visions of triumphs rose before him outlined on the years to come , practical , if Utopian . 
Slow and sure successes of science and art , where his brain could work , helpful and growing . 
To insure to him the freest development , he did not need to wait for St . 
Simon , or the golden year , he thought with a dreary gibe money was enough , and Miss Herne . 
It was curious , that , when this woman , whom he saw every day , came up in his mind , it was always in one posture , one costume . 
Not an ill chosen fancy , either , that of the moist , warm month . 
Some tranced summer's day might have drowsed down into such a human form by a dank pool , or on the thick grass crusted meadows . 
Three medical students and one attorney , Miss Herne numbered as having been driven into a state of dogged despair on that triumphal occasion . 
Yet the picture clung to his memory . 
He could think of her in no other light . 
He might have done so for the poor girl had her other sides for view . 
She had one of those sharp , tawdry intellects whose possessors are always reckoned brilliant women , fine talkers . 
a good humoured soul enough , when no one stood in her way . 
The woman luxuriated in perfume some heavy odour always hung about her . 
Holmes , thinking of her now , fancied he felt it stifling the air , and opened the window for breath . 
But he did not argue the question any longer decision had come keenly in one moment , fixed , unalterable . 
He had not learned then that all dreams must yield to self reverence and self growth . 
He was no longer a young man now he had no time to waste . 
Men like Napoleon must live out the law of their natures , I suppose , on a throne , or in a mill . 
So many trifles that day roused the undercurrent of old thoughts and old hopes that taunted him , trifles , too , that he would not have heeded at another time . 
Pike came in on business , a bunch of bills in his hand . 
A wily , keen eye he had , looking over them , a lean face , emphasized only by cunning . 
Knowles cursed him for a slippery customer , and was cheated by him the next hour . 
Holmes smoothed her hair , as she stood beside them for he never could help caressing children or dogs . 
Pike looked up sharply , then half smiled , as he went on counting . 
Ninety , ninety five , AND one hundred , all right , tying a bit of tape about the papers . 
My Sophy , Mr. Holmes . 
Good girl , Sophy is . 
Bring her up to the mill sometimes , he said , apologetically , on 'count of not leaving her alone . 
She gets lonesome at th' house . 
Holmes glanced at Pike's felt hat lying on the table there was a rusty strip of crape on it . 
Yes , said Pike , in a lower tone , I'm father and mother , both , to Sophy now . 
I had not heard , said Holmes , kindly . 
How about the boys , now ? Pete and John 's both gone West , the man said , his eyes kindling eagerly . 
'S fine boys as ever turned out of Indiana . 
Good eddications I give 'em both . 
I've felt the want of that all my life . 
Says I , Now , boys , you've got your fortunes , nothing to hinder your bein' President . 
Let's see what stuff 's in ye , says I. So they're doin' well . 
Wrote fur me to come out in the fall . 
But I'd rather scratch on , and gather up a little for Sophy here , before I stop work . 
He patted Sophy's tanned little hand on the table , as if beating some soft tune . 
Holmes folded up the bills . 
Well , said Pike , rising , in case you take th' mill , Mr. Holmes , I hope we'll be agreeable . 
I'll strive to do my best , in the old fawning manner , to which Holmes nodded a curt reply . 
The man stopped for Sophy to gather up her bits of broken chayney with which she was making a tea party on the table , and went down stairs . 
Towards evening Holmes went out , not going through the narrow passage that led to the offices , but avoiding it by a circuitous route . 
If it cost him any pain to think why he did it , he showed none in his calm , observant face . 
Buttoning up his coat as he went the October sunset looked as if it ought to be warm , but he was deathly cold . 
He had to bear with him but for a few moments , however . 
It was Polston , the coal digger , an acquaintance , a far off kinsman of Holmes , in fact . 
Curious person making signs to you , yonder , said Cox hand , I presume . 
If you do not know him , you'll excuse me ? Cox sniffed the air down the street , and twirled his rattan , as he went . 
The coal digger was abrupt and distant in his greeting , going straight to business . 
I will keep yoh only a minute , Mr. Holmes Stephen , corrected Holmes . 
The old man's face warmed . 
Stephen , then , holding out his hand , sence old times dawn't shame yoh , Stephen . 
It's only a wured I want , but it's immediate . 
Concernin' Joe Yare , Lois's father , yoh know ? He's back . 
Back ? I saw him to day , following me in the mill . 
His hair is gray ? I think it was he . 
Yes , he's aged fast , down in the lock up goin' fast to the end . 
The old coal digger drummed on the fire plug uneasily . 
Myself , 't was for Lois's sake I thowt on it . 
To speak plain , yoh'll mind that Stokes affair , th' note Yare forged ? Yes ? Ther' 's none knows o' that but yoh an' me . 
He's safe , Yare is , only fur yoh an' me . 
Yoh speak the wured an' back he goes to the lock up . 
D' yoh see ? I see . 
He's tryin' to do right , Yare is . 
The old man went on , trying not to be eager , and watching Holmes's face . 
Sendin' him back yoh know how THAT'll end . 
Seems like as we'd his soul in our hands . 
S'pose , what d' yoh think , if we give him a chance ? It's yoh he fears . 
I see him a watchin' yoh what d' yoh think , if we give him a chance ? catching Holmes's sleeve . 
He's old , an' he's tryin' . 
We didn't make the law he broke . 
That's right ! Yoh're just man , Stephen Holmes . 
Law's right , but Yare's had a bad chance , an' he's tryin' . 
An' we're sendin' him to hell . 
But I think yoh're a just man , looking keenly in Holmes's face . 
A hard one , people say , said Holmes , after a pause , as they walked on . 
He had spoken half to himself , and received no answer . 
Some blacker shadow troubled him than old Yare's fate . 
My mother was a hard woman , you knew her ? he said , abruptly . 
She was just , like yoh . 
She was one o' th' elect , she said . 
Mercy's fur them , an' outside , justice . 
It's a narrer showin' , I'm thinkin' . 
My father was outside , said Holmes , some old bitterness rising up in his tone , his gray eye lighting with some unrevenged wrong . 
Polston did not speak for a moment . 
Dunnot bear malice agin her . 
It wasn't left fur her to judge him out yonder . 
Yoh've yer father's Stephen , 'times . 
Hungry , pitiful , like women's . 
His got desper't' 't th' last . 
Drunk hard , died of 't , yoh know . 
But SHE killed him , th' sin was writ down fur her . 
Never was a boy I loved like him , when we was boys . 
There was a short silence . 
Yoh're like yer mother , said Polston , striving for a lighter tone . 
Here , motioning to the heavy iron jaws . 
Somehow , too , she'd the law on her side in outward showin' , an' th' right . 
But I hated religion , knowin' her . 
Well , ther' 's a day of makin' things clear , comin' . 
They had reached the corner now , and Polston turned down the lane . 
Yoh 'll think o' Yare's case ? he said . 
But how can I help it , Holmes said , lightly , if I am like my mother , here ? putting his hand to his mouth . 
God help us , how can yoh ? It's hard to think father and mother leave their souls fightin' in their childern , cos th' love was wantin' to make them one here . 
Something glittered along the street as he spoke the silver mountings of a low hung phaeton drawn by a pair of Mexican ponies . 
One or two gentlemen on horseback were alongside , attendant on a lady within , Miss Herne . 
She turned her fair face , and pale , greedy eyes , as she passed , and lifted her hand languidly in recognition of Holmes . 
I've heered , he said , holding out his grimy hand . 
I wish yoh well , Stephen , boy . 
Yoh'll come an' see us , soon ? Ye'r' lookin' fagged , an' yer eyes is gettin' more like yer father's . 
I'm glad things is takin' a good turn with yoh an' yoh'll never be like him , starvin' fur th' kind wured , an' havin' to die without it . 
I'm glad yoh've got true love . 
She'd a fair face , I think . 
I wish yoh well , Stephen . 
How cold it was growing ! People passing by had a sickly look , as if they were struck by the plague . 
He pushed the damp hair back , wiping his forehead , with another glance at the mill women coming out of the gate , and then followed the phaeton down the hill . 
But Lois , coming down the hill road , singing to herself , and keeping time with her whip end on the wooden measure , stopped when she grew conscious of it . 
It seemed to her blurred fancy more than a deadening sky a something solemn and unknown , hinting of evil to come . 
There was a vague dread in the sudden silence . 
She called to the old donkey , and went faster down the hill , as if escaping from some overhanging peril , unseen . 
She saw Margret coming up the road . 
He did not look at her had his head turned towards the gray distance . 
Lois's vivid eye caught the full meaning of the woman beside him . 
The face hurt her not fair , as Polston called it vapid and cruel . 
She was dressed in yellow the colour seemed jeering and mocking to the girl's sensitive instinct , keenly alive to every trifle . 
She did not know that it is the colour of shams , and that women like this are the most deadly of shams . 
As the phaeton went slowly down , Margret came nearer , meeting it on the road side , the dust from the wheels stifling the air . 
Lois saw her look up , and then suddenly stand still , holding to the fence , as they met her . 
Holmes's cold , wandering eye turned on the little dusty figure standing there , poor and despised . 
The phaeton was gone in an instant , leaving her alone in the road . 
One of the men looked back , and then whispered something to the lady with a laugh . 
She turned to Holmes , when he had finished , fixing her light , confusing eyes on his face , and softening her voice . 
Fred swears that woman we passed was your first love . 
Brilliant she called him , frank , winning , generous . 
She thought she knew him well held him a slave to her fluttering hand . 
Being proud of her slave , she let the hand flutter down now somehow with some flowers it held until it touched his hard fingers , her cheek flushing into rose . 
The nerveless , spongy hand , what a death grip it had on his life ! He did not look back once at the motionless , dusty figure on the road . 
He remembered his father , the night he died , had said in his weak ravings that God was love . 
Was He ? No wonder , then , He was the God of women , and children , and unsuccessful men . 
For him , he was done with it . 
He was here with stronger purpose than to yield to weaknesses of the flesh . 
He had made his choice , a straight , hard path upwards he was deaf now and forever to any word of kindness or pity . 
Some little , mean doubt kept up a sullen whisper of bought and sold , sold , but he laughed it down . 
He had made his choice he would abide by it , he would abide by it . 
He said that over and over again , dulling down the death gnawing of his outraged heart . 
Miss Herne was quite contented , sitting by him , with herself , and the admiring world . 
She had no notion of trial nights in life . 
Not many temptations pierced through her callous , flabby temperament to sting her to defeat or triumph . 
There were no dark iron bars across her life for her soul to clutch and shake madly , nothing in the world amiss , to be unriddled by and by . 
It grew cool and darker . 
Holmes left the phaeton before they entered town , and turned back . 
He was going to see this Margret Howth , tell her what he meant to do . 
Because he was going to leave a clean record . 
No one should accuse him of want of honour . 
This girl alone of all living beings had a right to see him as he stood , justified to himself . 
Why she had this right , I do not think he answered to himself . 
Besides , he must see her , if only on business . 
She must keep her place at the mill he would not begin his new life by an act of injustice , taking the bread out of Margret's mouth . 
LITTLE MARGRET ! He stopped suddenly , looking down into a deep pool of water by the road side . 
What madness of weariness crossed his brain just then I do not know . 
Was he mad ? Life was worth more to him than to other men , he thought and perhaps he was right . 
She was sitting there just where he had left her he knew she would be . 
When he came closer , she got up , not looking towards him but he saw her clasp her hands behind her , the fingers plucking weakly at each other . 
It was an old , childish fashion of hers , when she was frightened or hurt . 
It would only need a word , and he could be quiet and firm , she was such a child compared to him he always had thought of her so . 
He went on up to her slowly , and stopped when she looked at him , he untied the linen bonnet that hid her face , and threw it back . 
Only a word it needed , he thought , very kind and firm and he must be quick , he could not bear this long . 
But he held the little worn fingers , stroking them with an unutterable tenderness . 
You must let these fingers work for me , Margret , he said , at last , when I am master in the mill . 
It is true , then , Stephen ? It is true , yes . 
She lifted her hand to her head , uncertainly he held it tightly , and then let it go . 
I saw her , you know . 
The fingers were plucking at each other again and a strange , vacant smile on her face , trying to look glad . 
You love her , Stephen ? He was quiet and firm enough now . 
Her money will help me to become what I ought to be . 
She does not care for love . 
You want me to succeed , Margret ? No one ever understood me as you did , child though you were . 
I know ! I know ! I did understand you ! She said , lower , after a little while , I knew you did not love her . 
There is no such thing as love in real life , he said , in his steeled voice . 
You will know that , when you grow older . 
I used to believe in it once , myself . 
She did not speak , only watched the slow motion of his lips , not looking into his eyes , as she used to do in the old time . 
Whatever secret account lay between the souls of this man and woman came out now , and stood bare on their faces . 
I used to think that I , too , loved , he went on , in his low , hard tone . 
But it kept me back , Margret , and He was silent . 
It kept you back And I put it away . 
I put it away to night , forever . 
She did not speak stood quite quiet , her head bent on her breast . 
His conscience was clear now . 
But he almost wished he had not said it , she was such a weak , sickly thing . 
She sat down at last , burying her face in her hands , with a shivering sob . 
He dared not trust him self to speak again . 
I am not proud , as a woman ought to be , she said , wearily , when he wiped her clammy forehead . 
You loved me , then ? he whispered . 
Her face flashed at the unmanly triumph her puny frame started up , away from him . 
I did love you , Stephen . 
I did love you , as you might be , not as you are , not with those inhuman eyes . 
I do understand you , I do . 
I know you for a better man than you know yourself this night . 
He put his hand on her arm something we have never seen on his face struggled up , the better soul that she knew . 
Come back , he said , hoarsely don't leave me with myself . 
She did not come stood leaning , her sudden strength gone , against the broken wall . 
There was a heavy silence . 
The night throbbed slow about them . 
Some late bird rose from the sedges of the pool , and with a frightened cry flapped its tired wings , and drifted into the dark . 
His eyes , through the gathering shadow , devoured the weak , trembling body , met the soul that looked at him , strong as his own . 
There have been times , he said , in a smothered , restless voice , when I thought you belonged to me . 
Not here , but before this life . 
My soul and body thirst and hunger for you , then , Margret . 
She did not answer her hands worked feebly together , the dull blood fainting in her veins . 
Knowing only that the night yawned intolerable about her , that she was alone , going mad with being alone . 
No thought of heaven or God in her soul her craving eyes seeing him only . 
The strong , living man that she loved her tired out heart goading , aching to lie down on his brawny breast for one minute , and die there , that was all . 
She did not move underneath the pain there was power , as Knowles thought . 
He came nearer , and held up his arms to where she stood , the heavy , masterful face pale and wet . 
I need you , Margret . 
I shall be nothing without you , now . 
Come , Margret , little Margret ! She came to him , then , and put her hands in his . 
No , Stephen , she said . 
If there were any pain in her tone , she kept it down , for his sake . 
Never , I could never help you , as you are . 
It might have been , once . 
Her childish way put him in mind of the old days when this girl was dearer to him than his own soul . 
He held her close to his breast , looking down into her eyes . 
She moved uneasily she dared not trust herself . 
You will come ? he said . 
It might have been , it shall be again . 
It may be , she said , humbly . 
And I believe in you , Stephen . 
I will be yours some time we cannot help it , if we would but not as you are . 
You do not love me ? he said , flinging her off , his face whitening . 
She said nothing , gathered her damp shawl around her , and turned to go . 
Just a moment they stood , looking at each other . 
If the dark square figure standing there had been an iron fate trampling her young life down into hopeless wretchedness , she forgot it now . 
Women like Margret are apt to forget . 
His eye never abated in its fierce question . 
I will wait for you yonder , if I die first , she whispered . 
He came closer , waiting for an answer . 
And I love you , Stephen . 
He gathered her in his arms , and put his cold lips to hers , without a word then turned , and left her slowly . 
She made no sign , shed no tear , as she stood , watching him go . 
If it were a trial of life and death for her , did he know or care ? He did not look back . 
What if he did not ? his heart was true he suffered in going even now he walked wearily . 
She would not sit down , sick as she was he might turn , and it would vex him to see her suffer . 
He walked slowly once he stopped to pick up something . 
She saw the deep cut face and half shut eyes . 
How often those eyes had looked into her soul , and it had answered ! They never would look so any more . 
There was a tree by the place where the road turned into town . 
If he came back , he would be sure to turn there . 
How tired he walked , and slow ! If he was sick , that beautiful woman could be near him , help him . 
SHE never would touch his hand again , never again , never , unless he came back now . 
He was near the tree she closed her eyes , turning away . 
When she looked again , only the bare road lay there , yellow and wet . 
It was over , now . 
How long she sat there she did not know . 
She looked up , bewildered . 
Hunting catarrhs , eh ? he growled , eying her keenly . 
Got your father on the Bourbons , so took the chance to come and find you . 
He'll not miss ME for an hour . 
That man has a natural hankering after treason against the people . 
Lord , Margret ! what a stiff old head he'd have carried to the guillotine ! How he'd have looked at the canaille ! He helped her up gently enough . 
Your bonnet's like a wet rag , with a furtive glance at the worn out face . 
A hungry face always , with her life unfed by its stingy few crumbs of good but to night it was vacant with utter loss . 
She got up , trying to laugh cheerfully , and went beside him down the road . 
You saw that painted Jezebel to night , and stopping abruptly . 
She had not heard him , and he followed her doggedly , with an occasional snort or grunt or other inarticulate damn at the obstinate mud . 
She stopped at last , with a quick gasp . 
Looking at her , he chafed her limp hands , his huge , uncouth face growing pale . 
When she was better , he said , gravely , I want you , Margret . 
Not at home , child . 
I want to show you something . 
He turned with her suddenly off the main road into a by path , helping her along , watching her stealthily , but going on with his disjointed , bearish growls . 
If it stung her from her pain , vexing her , he did not care . 
I want to show you a bit of hell outskirt . 
You're in a fit state it'll do you good . 
The clergy can't attend to it just now they're too busy measuring God's truth by the States' Rights doctrine , or the Chicago Platform . 
Consequence , religion yields to majorities . 
Are you able ? It's only a step . 
The night was breathless and dark . 
Black , wet gusts dragged now and then through the skyless fog , striking her face with a chill . 
The Doctor quit talking , hurrying her , watching her anxiously . 
They came at last to the railway track , with long trains of empty freight cars . 
We are nearly there , he whispered . 
It's time you knew your work , and forgot your weakness . 
The curse of pampered generations . 
High Norman blood , pah ! There was a broken gap in the fence . 
He led her through it into a muddy yard . 
Inside was one of those taverns you will find in the suburbs of large cities , haunts of the lowest vice . 
This one was a smoky frame , standing on piles over an open space where hogs were rooting . 
Half a dozen drunken Irishmen were playing poker with a pack of greasy cards in an out house . 
He led her up the rickety ladder to the one room , where a flaring tallow dip threw a saffron glare into the darkness . 
A putrid odour met them at the door . 
She drew back , trembling . 
Come here ! he said , fiercely , clutching her hand . 
Women as fair and pure as you have come into dens like this , and never gone away . 
Does it make your delicate breath faint ? And you a follower of the meek and lowly Jesus ! Look here ! and here ! The room was swarming with human life . 
Women , idle trampers , whiskey bloated , filthy , lay half asleep , or smoking , on the floor , and set up a chorus of whining begging when they entered . 
Half naked children crawled about in rags . 
The Doctor looked at it . 
Tu es Petrus , et super hanc' Good God ! what IS truth ? he muttered , bitterly . 
He dragged her closer to the women , through the darkness and foul smell . 
Look in their faces , he whispered . 
There is not one of them that is not a living lie . 
Can they help it ? Think of the centuries of serfdom and superstition through which their blood has crawled . 
In the corner slept a heap of half clothed blacks . 
Going on the underground railroad to Canada . 
Stolid , sensual wretches , with here and there a broad , melancholy brow , and desperate jaws . 
One little pickaninny rubbed its sleepy eyes , and laughed at them . 
So much flesh and blood out of the market , unweighed ! Margret took up the child , kissing its brown face . 
Would you touch her ? I forgot you were born down South . 
Put it down , and come on . 
They went out of the door . 
Margret stopped , looking back . 
Did I call it a bit of hell ? It 's only a glimpse of the under life of America , God help us ! where all men are born free and equal . 
The air in the passage grew fouler . 
She leaned back faint and shuddering . 
He did not heed her . 
The passion of the man , the terrible pity for these people , came out of his soul now , writhing his face , and dulling his eyes . 
He led her through the passage , up a narrow flight of stairs . 
An old woman in a flaring cap sat at the top , nodding , wakening now and then , to rock herself to and fro , and give the shrill Irish keen . 
She drank herself to death , a most unpicturesque suicide . 
I want you to look at her . 
You need not blush for her life of shame , now she's dead . 
Is Hetty here ? The woman got up . 
She's lookin' foine in her Sunday suit . 
Shrouds is gone out , Mem , they say . 
She went tipping over the floor to something white that lay on a board , a candle at the head , and drew off the sheet . 
The small face was purely cut , haggard , patient in its sleep , the soft , fair hair gathered off the tired forehead . 
Margret leaned over her , shuddering , pinning her handkerchief about the child's dead neck . 
How young she is ! muttered Knowles . 
Merciful God , how young she is ! What is that you say ? sharply , seeing Margret's lips move . 
He that is without sin among you , let him first cast a stone at her . 
Ah , child , that is old time philosophy . 
Put your hand here , on her dead face . 
Is your loss like hers ? he said lower , looking into the dull pain in her eyes . 
Selfish pain he called it . 
Let me go , she said . 
He took her out into the cool , open road , leading her tenderly enough , for the girl suffered , he saw . 
What will you do ? he asked her then . 
It is not too late , will you help me save these people ? She wrung her hands helplessly . 
What do you want with me ? she cried . 
I have enough to bear . 
The burly black figure before her seemed to tower and strengthen the man's face in the wall light showed a terrible life purpose coming out bare . 
I want you to do your work . 
It is hard , it will wear out your strength and brain and heart . 
Give yourself to these people . 
God calls you to it . 
There is none to help them . 
Give up love , and the petty hopes of women . 
God calls you to the work . 
She went , on blindly he followed her . 
For years he had set apart this girl to help him in his scheme he would not be balked now . 
He had great hopes from his plan he meant to give all he had it was the noblest of aims . 
He thought some day it would work like leaven through the festering mass under the country he loved so well , and raise it to a new life . 
If it failed , if it failed , and saved one life , his work was not lost . 
But it could not fail . 
She was weak her brain faltered . 
Does God call me to this work ? Does He call me ? she moaned . 
He waits for your answer . 
Swear to me that you will help His people . 
Give up father and mother and love , and go down as Christ did . 
Help me to give liberty and truth and Jesus' love to these wretches on the brink of hell . 
Live with them , raise them with you . 
She looked up , white she was a weak , weak woman , sick for her natural food of love . 
Is it my work ? It is your work . 
Listen to me , Margret , softly . 
Who cares for you ? You stand alone to night . 
There is not a single human heart that calls you nearest and best . 
Shiver , if you will , it is true . 
The man you wasted your soul on left you in the night and cold to go to his bride , is sitting by her now , holding her hand in his . 
He waited a moment , looking down at her , until she should understand . 
I know that for these two years you have trusted in the Christ you worship to make it right , to give you your heart's desire . 
After a time he said to her , Help me , Margret ! Your prayer was selfish it was not heard . 
Give up your idle hope that Christ will aid you . 
Swear to me , this night when you have lost all , to give yourself to this work . 
The storm had been dark and windy it cleared now slowly , the warm summer rain falling softly , the fresh blue stealing broadly from behind the gray . 
It seemed to Margret like a blessing for her brain rose up stronger , more healthful . 
I will not swear , she said , weakly . 
I think He heard my prayer . 
I think He will answer it . 
He was a man , and loved as we do . 
My love is not selfish it is the best gift God has given me . 
Knowles went slowly with her to the house . 
He was keenly read in woman's heart , this Knowles . 
He left her silently , and she passed through the dark passage to her own room . 
How fond Holmes and her father used to be of each other ! Every Christmas he spent with them . 
She remembered them all now . 
He was sitting by her now , holding her hand in his . 
She said that over to herself , though it was not hard to understand . 
After a long time , her mother came with a candle to the door . 
Why , your hair is wet , child ! For Margret , kissing her good night , had laid her head down a minute on her breast . 
She stroked the hair a moment , and then turned away . 
Mother , could you stay with me to night ? Why , no , Maggie , your father wants me to read to him . 
Did he miss me to night , father ? Not much we were talking old times over , in Virginia , you know . 
She went back to the chair . 
Tige was there , for he used to spend half of his time on the farm . 
She put her arm about his head . 
God knows how lonely the poor child was when she drew the dog so warmly to her heart not for his master's sake alone but it was all she had . 
He grew tired at last , and whined , trying to get out . 
Will you go , Tige ? she said , and opened the window . 
He jumped out , and she watched him going towards town . 
Such a little thing , it was ! But not even a dog called her nearest and best . 
Let us be silent the story of the night is not for us to read . 
And , trusting Him , she only said , Show me my work ! Thou that takest away the pain of the world , have mercy upon me ! CHAPTER VII . 
For that night , at least , Holmes swept his soul clean of doubt and indecision one of his natures was conquered , finally , he thought . 
Polston , if he had seen his face as he paced the street slowly home to the mill , would have remembered his mother's the day she died . 
How the stern old woman met death half way ! why should she fear ? she was as strong as he . 
Wherein had she failed of duty ? her hands were clean she was going to meet her just reward . 
It was different with Holmes , of course , with his self existent soul . 
It was life he accepted to night , he thought , a life of growth , labour , achievement , eternal . 
Ohne Hast , aber ohne Rast , favourite words with him . 
a cold , speculative eye of reason , that looked down into the passion and depths of his growing self , and calmly noted them , a lesson for all time . 
If there were any all embracing harmony , one soul through all , he did not see it . 
Knowles that old sceptic believed in it , and called it Love . 
Pah ! it was a dream of Faust's he , too , had his Margaret he fell , through that love . 
He went on slowly to the mill . 
If the name or the words woke a subtile remorse or longing , he buried them under restful composure . 
Whether they should ever rise like angry ghosts of what might have been , to taunt the man , only the future could tell . 
Going through the gas lit streets , Holmes met some cordial greeting at every turn . 
So Holmes was popular , though the beggars shunned him , and the lazy Italian organ grinders never held their tambourines up to him . 
The mill street was dark the building threw its great shadow over the square . 
It was empty , he supposed only one hand generally remained to keep in the furnace fires . 
Going through one of the lower passages , he heard voices , and turned aside to examine . 
The management was not strict , and in case of a fire the mill was not insured like Knowles's carelessness . 
It was Lois and her father , Joe Yare being feeder that night . 
They were in one of the great furnace rooms in the cellar , a very comfortable place that stormy night . 
The old stoker had just finished slaking the out fires , and was putting some blue plates on the table , gravely straightening them . 
Ther' yoh are , father , hot 'n' hot , with her face on fire , ther' yoh are , coaxin' to be eatin' . 
Why , Mr. Holmes ! Father ! Now , ef yoh jes' hedn't hed yer supper ? She came up , coaxingly . 
Old Yare stood in the background , his hat in his hand , stooping in his submissive negro fashion , with a frightened watch on Holmes . 
Do you stay here , Lois ? he asked , kindly , turning his back on the old man . 
On'y to bring his supper . 
I couldn't bide all night 'n th' mill , the old shadow coming on her face , I couldn't , yoh know . 
She glanced quickly from one to the other in silence , seeing the fear on her father's face . 
Yoh know father , Mr. Holmes ? He's back now . 
The old man came forward , humbly . 
It's me , Marster Stephen . 
The sullen , stealthy face disgusted Holmes . 
Yoh've been kind to my little girl while I was gone , he said , catching his breath . 
I thank yoh , Marster . 
'T was fur her I comed back hyur . 
'T was a resk , with a dumb look of entreaty at Holmes , but fur her I thort I'd try it . 
I know't was a resk but I thort them as cared fur Lo wud be merciful . 
She's a good girl , Lo . 
Lois brought a box over , lugging it heavily . 
We hev n't chairs but yoh'll sit down , Mr. Holmes ? laughing as she covered it with a cloth . 
It'd a warm place , here . 
Father studies 'n his watch , 'n' I'm teacher , showing the torn old spelling book . 
The old man came eagerly forward , seeing the smile flicker on Holmes's face . 
It's slow work , Marster , slow . 
But Lo's a good teacher , 'n' I'm tryin' , I'm tryin' hard . 
It's not slow , Sir , seein' father hed n't 'dvantages , like me . 
He was a She stopped , lowering her voice , a hot flush of shame on her face . 
Be n't that'll 'xcuse , Marster , seein' I knowed noght at the beginnin' ? Thenk o' that , Marster . 
I'm tryin' to be a different man . 
Holmes did not notice him . 
Good night , Lois , he said , kindly , as she lighted his lamp . 
He put some money on the table . 
You must take it , as she looked uneasy . 
For Tiger's board , say . 
I never see him now . 
A bright new frock , remember . 
She thanked him , her eyes brightening , looking at her father's patched coat . 
The old man followed Holmes out . 
Marster Holmes Have done with this , said Holmes , sternly . 
Whoever breaks law abides by it . 
It is no affair of mine . 
The old man clutched his hands together fiercely , struggling to be quiet . 
Ther' 's none knows it but yoh , he said , in a smothered voice . 
Fur God's sake be merciful ! It'll kill my girl , it 'll kill her . 
Gev me a chance , Marster . 
I must do what is just . 
It's not just , he said , savagely . 
What good'll it do me to go back ther' ? I was goin' down , down , an' bringin' th' others with me . 
What good'll it do you or the rest to hev me ther' ? To make me afraid ? It's poor learnin' frum fear . 
Will yoh gev me a chance ? will yoh ? It was a desperate face before him but Holmes never knew fear . 
Stand aside , he said , quietly . 
To morrow I will see you . 
You need not try to escape . 
He passed him , and went slowly up through the vacant mill to his chamber . 
He got up at last , and went in to Lois . 
Had she heard ? The old scarred face of the girl looked years older , he thought , but it might be fancy . 
She did not say anything for a while , moving slowly , with a new gentleness , about him her very voice was changed , older . 
He tried to be cheerful , eating his supper she need not know until to morrow . 
He would get out of the town to night , or There were different ways to escape . 
When he had done , he told her to go but she would not . 
Let me stay til' night , she said . 
I be n't afraid o' th' mill . 
Why , Lo , he said , laughing , yoh used to say yer death was hid here , somewheres . 
But ther' 's worse nor death . 
But it'll come right , she said , persistently , muttering to herself , as she leaned her face on her knees , watching , it'll come right . 
The glimmering shadows changed and faded for an hour . 
Nor much in the future a blank stretch of punishment to the end . 
A wrong to both , you say , perhaps but if so , irreparable , and never to be recompensed . 
Never ? Yoh must go , my little girl , he said at last . 
Whatever he did must be done quickly . 
She came up , combing the thin gray hairs through her fingers . 
Father , I dunnot understan' what it is , rightly . 
But stay with me , stay , father ! Yoh've a many frien's , Lo , he said , with a keen flash of jealousy . 
Ther' 's none like yoh , none . 
She put her misshapen head and scarred face down on his hand , where he could see them . 
They're kind , but ther' 's not many loves me with true love , like yoh . 
Stay , father ! Bear it out , whatever it be . 
Th' good time 'll come , father . 
He kissed her , saying nothing , and went with her down the street . 
When he left her , she waited , and , creeping back , hid near the mill . 
God knows what vague dread was in her brain but she came back to watch and help . 
Most of all remembering the good times in his life , he went back to Lois . 
It was all good , there , to go back to . 
Lois , over in the damp , fresh smelling lumber yard , sat coiled up in one of the creviced houses made by the jutting boards . 
She remembered how she used to play in them , before she went into the mill . 
The mill , even now , with the vague dread of some uncertain evil to come , the mill absorbed all fear in its old hated shadow . 
Whatever danger was coming to them lay in it , came from it , she knew , in her confused , blurred way of thinking . 
It loomed up now , with the square patch of ashen sky above , black , heavy with years of remembered agony and loss . 
In Lois's hopeful , warm life this was the one uncomprehended monster . 
Her crushed brain , her unwakened powers , resented their wrong dimly to the mass of iron and work and impure smells , unconscious of any remorseless power that wielded it . 
It was a monster , she thought , through the sleepy , dreading night , a monster that kept her wakeful with a dull , mysterious terror . 
When the night grew sultry and deepest , she started from her half doze to see her father come stealthily out and go down the street . 
She must have slept , she thought , rubbing her eyes , and watching him out of sight , and then , creeping out , turned to glance at the mill . 
She cried out , shrill with horror . 
There was a dull smell of camphor a farther sense of coolness and prickling wet on Holmes's hot , cracking face and hands then silence and sleep again . 
Sometime when , he never knew a gray light stinging his eyes like pain , and again a slow sinking into warm , unsounded darkness and unconsciousness . 
It might be years , it might be ages . 
Was it he that had borne it ? He did not know , nor care it made him tired to think . 
Even when he heard the name , Stephen Holmes , it had but a far off meaning he never woke enough to know if it were his or not . 
They were very long , pleasant days in early December . 
It was very quiet the voices about him were pleasant and low . 
If he had drifted from any shock of pain into a sleep like death , some of the stillness hung about him yet but the outer life was homely and fresh and natural . 
One 'd thenk , said Lois , sagely , a chicken never stood on a wall before , to hear 'em , or a hen laid an egg . 
Nor did Holmes smile once because the chicken burlesqued man his thought was too single for that yet . 
It was long , too , before he thought of the people who came in quietly to see him as anything but shadows , or wished for them to come again . 
Lois , perhaps , was the most real thing in life then to him growing conscious , day by day , as he watched her , of his old life over the gulf . 
Whatever honest , commonplace affection was in the man came out in a simple way to this Lois , who ruled his sick whims and crotchets in such a quiet , sturdy fashion . 
He would sit , grum enough , with his feet higher than his head , chewing an unlighted cigar , and leave them both thankful when he saw proper to go . 
The truth is , Knowles was thoroughly out of place in these little mending shops called sick chambers , where bodies are taken to pieces , and souls set right . 
He had no faith in your slow , impalpable cures all reforms were to be accomplished by a wrench , from the abolition of slavery to the pulling of a tooth . 
He would have been apt to tell you , savagely , that he wrought for it . 
Besides , it made him out of temper to meet the sisters . 
The world was done with it now , utterly . 
Its breath was only poisoned , with coming death . 
Truth will not underlie all facts , in this muddle of a world , in spite of the Positive Philosophy , you know . 
An intolerant fanatic , of course . 
If Knowles shunned the hospital , there was another place he shunned more , the place where his Communist buildings were to have stood . 
Then he went out to the farm he had meant to buy , as I told you , and looked at it in the same stolid way . 
It was a dull day in October . 
This poor old Knowles had begun to block out his dream when he was a gaunt , gray haired man of sixty . 
I have known men so build their heart's blood , and brains into their work , that , when it tumbled down , their lives went with it . 
His fell that dull day in October but if it hurt him , no man knew it . 
He sat there , looking at the broad plateau , whistling softly to himself , a long time . 
It was all over now . 
He never came back again . 
People said Knowles was quieter since his loss but I think only God saw the depth of the difference . 
As he looked , the warm , red sun came out , lighting up with a heartsome warmth the whole gray day . 
His hope accomplished could not have looked at him with surer content and fulfilment . 
He turned away , ungrateful and moody . 
Long afterwards he remembered the calm and brightness which his hand had not been raised to make , and understood the meaning of its promise . 
He was seized with a curiosity to know what plan in living these people had who crossed his way on the streets if they were disappointed , like him . 
Humbled , he hardly knew why vague , uncertain in action . 
Well , well , he soothed his conscience , going downstairs , maybe that bit of canvas is as much to that poor chap as the Phalanstery was once to another fool . 
The only place where he hardened his heart was in the hospital with Holmes . 
Looking out of the hospital window , he saw the deep of the stainless blue , impenetrable , with the stars unconscious in their silence of the maddest raging of the petty world . 
The next , he opened the newspaper in his hand . 
When he walked over the floor , too , weak as he was it was with the old iron tread . 
He asked Knowles presently what business he had gone into . 
My old hobby in an humble way , the House of Refuge . 
Yes , it is true . 
The janitor points me out to visitors as under superintendent , a philanthropist in decayed circumstances . 
Perhaps it is my life work , growing sad and earnest . 
If you can inoculate these infant beggars and thieves with your theory , it will be practice when you are dead . 
I think that , said Knowles , gravely , his eye kindling , I think that . 
As thankless a task as that of Moses , said the other , watching him curiously . 
For YOU will not see the pleasant land , YOU will not go over . 
The old man's flabby face darkened . 
I know , he said . 
He glanced involuntarily out at the blue , and the clear shining , eternal stars . 
I suppose , he said , after a while , cheerfully , I must content myself with Lois's creed , here , It'll come right some time . 
Lois looked up from the saucepan she was stirring , her face growing quite red , nodding emphatically some half dozen times . 
After all , said Holmes , kindly , this chance may have forced you on the true road to success for your new system of Sociology . 
Only untainted natures could be fitted for self government . 
Do you find the fallow field easily worked ? Knowles fidgeted uneasily . 
No. Fact is , I'm beginning to think there 's a good deal of an obstacle in blood . 
I find difficulty , much difficulty , Sir , in giving to the youngest child true ideas of absolute freedom , and unselfish heroism . 
You teach them these by reason alone ? said Holmes , gravely . 
Holmes stooped suddenly to pat Tiger , hiding a furtive smile . 
The old man went on , anxiously , Old Mr. Howth says that is the end of all self governments from anarchy to despotism , he says . 
Brute force must come in . 
Old people are apt to be set in their ways , you know . 
Honestly , we do not find unlimited freedom answer in the House . 
The Christian ? said Holmes . 
I am not a believer myself , you know but I find that it takes hold of these people more vitally than more abstract faiths I suppose because of the humanity of Jesus . 
In Utopia , of course , we shall live from scientific principles but they do not answer in the House . 
Who is the woman ? asked Holmes , carelessly . 
The other watched him keenly . 
She is coming for five years . 
He patted the dog with the same hard , unmoved touch . 
It is a religious duty with her . 
Besides , she must do something . 
They have been almost starving since the mill was burnt . 
Holmes's face was bent he could not see it . 
When he looked up , Knowles thought it more rigid , immovable than before . 
When Knowles was going away , Holmes said to him , When does Margret Howth go into that devils' den ? The House ? On New Year's . 
The scorn in him was too savage to be silent . 
It is the best time to begin a new life . 
Yourself , now , you will have fulfilled your design by that time , of marriage ? Holmes was leaning on the mantel shelf his very lips were pale . 
Yes , I shall , I shall , in his low , hard tone . 
Some sudden dream of warmth and beauty flashed before his gray eyes , lighting them as Knowles never had seen before . 
Miss Herne is beautiful , let me congratulate you , in Western fashion . 
The old man did not hide his sneer . 
I thank you , for her . 
Lois held the candle to light the Doctor out of the long passages . 
Yoh hev n't seen Barney out 't Mr. Howth's , Doctor ? He's ther' now . 
No. When shall you have done waiting on this man , Lois ? God help you , child ! Lois's quick instinct answered , He's very kind . 
He's like a woman fur kindness to such as me . 
When I come to die , I'd like eyes such as his to look at , tender , pitiful . 
Women are fools alike , grumbled the Doctor . 
When you come to die ? What put that into your head ? Look up . 
The child sheltered the flaring candle with her hand . 
I've no tho't o' dyin' , she said , laughing . 
There was a gray shadow about her eyes , a peaked look to the face , he never saw before , looking at her now with a physician's eyes . 
Does anything hurt you here ? touching her chest . 
It was that night o' th' fire . 
Th' breath o' th' mill , I thenk , but it's nothin' . 
Burning copperas ? Of course it's better ! Oh , that's nothing ! he said , cheerfully . 
When they reached the door , he held out his hand , the first time he ever had done it to her , and then waited , patting her on the head . 
I think it'll come right , Lois , he said , dreamily , looking out into the night . 
I think it'll all come right . 
After he was a long way down the street , he turned to nod good night again to the comical little figure in the door way . 
If ever it had hungered , through the cold , selfish days , for God's help , or a woman's love , it hungered now , with a craving like death . 
He had frozen the love out of her heart , long ago . 
He saw and heard that , unconscious to all else he would have known it , if he had been dead , lying there . 
Whatever the resolve was , it did not still the gnawing hunger in his heart that night , which every trifle made more fresh and strong . 
As with all of her people , Christmas was the great day of the year to her . 
Holmes could not but smile , looking at them . 
With his hand over his eyes , he sat quiet by the fire until morning . 
He heard some boy going by in the gray dawn call to another that they would have holiday on Christmas week . 
It was coming , he thought , rousing himself , but never as it had been that could never be again . 
Yet it was strange how this thought of Christmas took hold of him , after this , famished his heart . 
He chafed under his weakness . 
For I fear that even now Stephen Holmes thought of his own need and his own hunger . 
He knew that , as well as she , waiting through the cold , slow hours , in his solitary room . 
Who knew but it might be the last ? Let us be thankful for that happy Christmas day . 
Holmes , even , in his dreary room and drearier thought , felt the warmth and expectant stir creeping through the land as the day drew near . 
Even in the hospital , the sisters were in a busy flutter , decking their little chapel with flowers , and preparing a fete for their patients . 
The doctor , as he bandaged his broken arm , hinted at faint rumours in the city of masquerades and concerts . 
Even Knowles , who had not visited the hospital for weeks , relented and came back , moody and grum . 
Pike came to see him one day , his arms full of a bundle , which turned out to be an accordion for Sophy . 
I think Sophy will like that , he said , looking at it sideways , and tying it up carefully . 
I am sure she will , said Holmes , and did not think the man a fool for one moment . 
He learned to watch even for poor Lois coming up the corridor every day , being the only tie that bound the solitary man to the inner world of love and warmth . 
The deformed little body was quite alive with Christmas now , and brought its glow with her , in her weak way . 
Different from the others , he saw with a curious interest . 
The day was more real to her than to them . 
It was a beautiful faith he almost wished it were his . 
A beautiful faith ! it gave a meaning to the old custom of gifts and kind words . 
LOVE coming into the world ! the idea pleased his artistic taste , being simple and sublime . 
She ceased coming at last . 
One of the sisters went out to see her , and told him she was too weak to walk , but meant to be better soon , quite well by the holidays . 
He wished the poor thing had told him what she wanted of him , wished it anxiously , with a dull presentiment of evil . 
The days went by , cold and slow . 
He watched grimly the preparations the hospital physician was silently making in his case , for fever , inflammation . 
I must be strong enough to go out cured on Christmas eve , he said to him one day , coolly . 
The old doctor glanced up shrewdly . 
He was an old Alsatian , very plain spoken . 
You say so ? he mumbled . 
Chut ! Then you will go . 
There are some bull dog , men . 
They do what they please , they never die unless they choose , begar ! We know them in our practice , Herr Holmes ! Holmes laughed . 
A long time but Christmas eve came at last bright , still , frosty . 
Whatever he had to do , let it be done quickly but not till the set hour came . 
The old doctor found him alone in the dreary room , coming in with the frosty breath of the eager street about him . 
A grim , chilling sight enough , as solitary and impenetrable as the Sphinx . 
He did not like such faces in this genial and gracious time , so hurried over his examination . 
The eye was cool , the pulse steady , the man's body , battered though it was , strong in its steely composure . 
All right , gluck Zu ! And so shuffled out . 
Latent fever ? Doubtless , yet hardly from broken bones , the doctor thought , with no suspicion of the subtile , intolerable passion smouldering in every drop of this man's phlegmatic blood . 
He stopped until the cracked bell of the chapel had done striking the Angelus , and then put on his overcoat , and went out . 
Passing down the garden walk a miserable chicken staggered up to him , chirping a drunken recognition . 
So , going out on the street , he tested his own nature by this trifle in his old fashion . 
The ruling passion strong in death , eh ? It had not been self love something deeper an instinct rather than reason . 
Was he glad to think this of himself ? He looked out more watchful of the face which the coming Christmas bore . 
The air was cold and pungent . 
The crowded city seemed wakening to some keen enjoyment even his own weak , deliberate step rang on the icy pavement as if it wished to rejoice with the rest . 
Holmes turned down one of the back streets he was going to see Lois , first of all . 
What d' ye want , Mas'r ? said a stifled voice . 
He touched it again with his stick . 
The man stood upright , back in the shadow it was old Yare . 
Had ye any word wi' me , Mas'r ? He saw the negro's face grow gray with fear . 
Come out , Yare , he said , quietly . 
Any word ? What word is arson , eh ? The man did not move . 
Holmes touched him with the stick . 
Come out , he said . 
He came out , looking gaunt , as with famine . 
I'll not flurr myself , he said , crunching his ragged hat in his hands , I'll not . 
He drove the hat down upon his head , and looked up with a sullen fierceness . 
Yoh've got me , an' I'm glad of 't . 
I was born for hangin' , they say , with a laugh . 
But I'll see my girl . 
I've waited hyur , runnin' the resk , not darin' to see her , on 'count o' yoh . 
I thort I was safe on Christmas day , but what's Christmas to yoh or me ? Holmes's quiet motion drove him up the steps before him . 
He stopped at the top , his cowardly nature getting the better of him , and sat down whining on the upper step . 
Be marciful , Mas'r ! I wanted to see my girl , that's all . 
Holmes passed him and went in . 
She tried to jump up when she saw him , and not being able , leaned on one elbow , half crying as she laughed . 
It's the best Christmas gift of all ! I can hardly b'lieve it ! touching the strong hand humbly that was held out to her . 
Don't look till to morrow mornin' , she said , anxiously , as she lay back trembling and exhausted . 
The breath of the mill ! The fires of the world's want and crime had finished their work on her life , so ! She caught the meaning of his face quickly . 
It's nothin' , she said , eagerly . 
I'll be strong by New Year's it's only a day or two rest I need . 
I've no tho't o' givin' up . 
And to show how strong she was , she got up and hobbled about to make the tea . 
A moment after the old man came into the room , carrying her , and , laying her down on the settee , chafed her hands , and misshapen head . 
What ails her ? he said , looking up , bewildered , to Holmes . 
We've killed her among us . 
She laughed , though the great eyes were growing dim , and drew his coarse gray hair into her hand . 
Yoh wur long comin' , she said , weakly . 
I hunted fur yoh every day , every day . 
The old man had pushed her hair back , and was reading the sunken face with a wild fear . 
What ails her ? he cried . 
Ther' 's somethin' gone wi' my girl . 
Was it my fault ? Lo , was it my fault ? Be quiet ! said Holmes , sternly . 
Is it THAT ? he gasped , shrilly . 
My God ! not that ! I can't bear it ! Lois soothed him , patting his face childishly . 
Am I dyin' now ? she asked , with a frightened look at Holmes . 
He told her no , cheerfully . 
I've no tho't o' dyin' . 
I dunnot thenk o' dyin' . 
Don't mind , dear ! Yoh'll stay with me , fur good ? The man's paroxysm of fear for her over , his spite and cowardice came uppermost . 
It's him , he yelped , looking fiercely at Holmes . 
He's got my life in his hands . 
What does he keer fur me or my girl ? I'll not stay wi' yoh no longer , Lo . 
Mornin' he'll send me t' th' lock up , an' after I care for you , child , said Holmes , stooping suddenly close to the girl's livid face . 
To morrow ? she muttered . 
My Christmas day ? He wet her face while he looked over at the wretch whose life he held in his hands . 
So as I've hunted fur him ! she whispered , weakly . 
I didn't thenk it wud come to this . 
She caught the old man's head in her arms with an agony of tears , and held it tight . 
I hev hed a pore chance , he said , looking up , that's God's truth , Lo ! I dunnot keer fur that it's too late goin' back . 
But Lo Mas'r , he mumbled , servilely , it's on'y a little time t' th' end let me stay with Lo . 
She loves me , Lo does . 
A look of disgust crept over Holmes's face . 
Stay , then , he muttered , I wash my hands of you , you old scoundrel ! He bent over Lois with his rare , pitiful smile . 
She looked up cheerfully , hardly conscious how deep the danger had been but the flush had gone from her face , leaving it sad and still . 
I must go to keep Christmas , Lois , he said , playfully . 
Yoh're keepin' it here , Sir . 
She held her weak grip on his hand still , with the vague outlook in her eyes that came there sometimes . 
Was it fur me yoh done it ? Yes , for you . 
And fur Him that's comin' , Sir ? smiling . 
She looked into his eyes bewildered . 
For the poor child that loved me he said , half to himself , smoothing her hair . 
He did not see it now . 
She drew their hands together , as if she would have joined them , then stopped , closing her eyes wearily . 
It's all wrong , she muttered , oh , it's far wrong ! Ther' 's One could make them 'like . 
She stroked her father's hand once , and then let it go . 
There was a long silence . 
Holmes glanced out , and saw the sun was down . 
Lois , he said , I want you to wish me a happy Christmas , as people do . 
Holmes had a curious vein of superstition he knew no lips so pure as this girl's , and he wanted them to wish him good luck that night . 
She did it , looking up laughing and growing red riddles of life did not trouble her childish fancy long . 
And so he left her , with a dull feeling , as I said before , that it was good to say a prayer before the battle came on . 
For men who believed in prayers for him , it was the same thing to make one day for Lois happier . 
CHAPTER X. It was later than Holmes thought a gray , cold evening . 
The streets in that suburb were lonely he went down them , the new fallen snow dulling his step . 
It had covered the peaked roofs of the houses too , and they stood in listening rows , white and still . 
Here and there a pale flicker from the gas lamps struggled with the ashy twilight . 
He met no one people had gone home early on Christmas eve . 
He had no home to go to pah ! there were plenty of hotels , he remembered , smiling grimly . 
Well , men had conquered Fate , conquered life and love , before now . 
It grew darker he was pacing now slowly in the shadow of a long low wall surrounding the grounds of some building . 
When he came near the gate , he would stop and listen he could have heard a sparrow on the snow , it was so still . 
After a while he did hear footsteps , crunching the snow heavily the gate clicked as they came out it was Knowles , and the clergyman whom Dr . 
Cox did not like Vandyke was his name . 
Don't bolt the gate , said Knowles Miss Howth will be out presently . 
They sat down on a pile of lumber near by , waiting , apparently . 
Holmes went up and joined them , standing in the shadow of the lumber , talking to Vandyke . 
He did not meet him , perhaps , once in six months but he believed in the man , thoroughly . 
I've just helped Knowles build a Christmas tree in yonder , the House of Refuge you know . 
He could not tell an oak from an arbor vitae , I believe . 
Knowles was in no mood for quizzing . 
There are other things I don't know , he said , gloomily , recurring to some subject Holmes had interrupted . 
The House is going to the Devil , Charley , headlong . 
There's no use in saying no , said the other you'll call me a lying diviner . 
Seems as if I am to go groping and stumbling through the world like some forsaken Cyclops with his eye out , dragging down whatever I touch . 
If there were anything to hold by , anything certain ! Vandyke looked at him gravely , but did not answer rose and walked indolently up and down to keep himself warm . 
A lithe , slow figure , a clear face with delicate lips , and careless eyes that saw everything the face of a man quick to learn , and slow to teach . 
There she comes ! said Knowles , as the lock of the gate rasped . 
Holmes had heard the slow step in the snow long before . 
A small woman came out , and went down the silent street into the road beyond . 
Holmes kept his back turned to her , lighting his cigar the other men watched her eagerly . 
What do you think , Vandyke ? demanded Knowles . 
How will she do ? Do for what ? resuming his lazy walk . 
You talk as if she were a machine . 
It is the way with modern reformers . 
Men are so many ploughs and harrows to work on the classes . 
Do for what ? Knowles flushed hotly . 
The work the Lord has left for her . 
Do you mean to say there is none to do , you , pledged to Missionary labour ? The young man's face coloured . 
I know this street needs paving terribly , Knowles but I don't see a boulder in your hands . 
Yet the great Task master does not despise the pavers . 
Higher ! The old man stood aghast . 
I know your creed , then , that the true work for a man or a woman is that which develops their highest nature ? Vandyke laughed . 
You have a creed mania , Knowles . 
You have a confession of faith ready made for everybody , but yourself . 
I only meant for you to take care what you do . 
That woman looks as the Prodigal Son might have done when he began to be in want , and would fain have fed himself with the husks that the swine did eat . 
Whose work is it , then ? he muttered , following the men down the street for they walked on . 
The world has waited six thousand years for help . 
It comes slowly , slowly , Vandyke even through your religion . 
The young man did not answer looked up , with quiet , rapt eyes , through the silent city , and the clear gray beyond . 
Holmes had taken off his hat , unconscious that he did it he put it on slowly , and walked on . 
The very earth listens , he said . 
Listens for what ? said the literal old Doctor . 
I think it listens always , said Vandyke , his eye on fire . 
For its King that shall be . 
Not as He came before . 
It has not long to wait now the New Year is not far off . 
I've no faith in holding your hands , waiting for it nor have you either , Charley , growled Knowles . 
There's an infernal lot of work to be done before it comes , I fancy . 
Here , let me light my cigar . 
Holmes bade them good night , laughing , and struck into the by road through the hills . 
He shook hands with Vandyke before he went , a thing he scarce ever did with anybody . 
The road Holmes took was rutted deep with wagon wheels , not easily travelled he walked slowly therefore , being weak , stopping now and then to gather strength . 
He had not counted the hours until this day , to be balked now by a little loss of blood . 
The moon was nearly down before he reached the Cloughton hills he turned there into a narrow path which he remembered well . 
There was a turn in the path at the top of the hill , a sunken wall , with a broad stone from which the wind had blown the snow . 
He sat down on the stone , resting . 
He stood alone in the world with this little Margret . 
How those men had carped , and criticised her , chattered of the duties of her soul ! Why , it was his , it was his own , softer and fresher . 
There was not a glance with which they followed the weak little body in its poor dress that he had not seen , and savagely resented . 
His Margret ? He chafed with an intolerable fever to make her his , but for one instant , as she had been once . 
Now , when it was too late . 
For he went back over every word he had spoken that night , forcing himself to go through with it , every cold , poisoned word . 
It was a fitting penance . 
She knew him for a better man than he knew himself that night he remembered the words . 
He sighed wearily the homely little hope was fanning into life stagnant depths of desire and purpose , stirring his resolute ambition . 
It was late he must go on he had not meant to sit idling by the road side . 
The house was quite dark only a light in one of the lower windows , the library , he thought . 
There was a black shadow passing and repassing the windows he waited a moment looking at it , then came more slowly towards them , intenser heats smouldering in his face . 
He would not surprise her she should be as ready as he was for the meeting . 
If she ever put her pure hand in his again , it should be freely done , and of her own good will . 
She saw him as he came up on the porch , and stopped , looking out , as if bewildered , then resumed her walk , mechanically . 
What it cost her to see him again he could not tell her face did not alter . 
It was lifeless and schooled , the eyes looking straight forward always , indifferently . 
Was this his work ? If he had killed her outright , it would have been better than this . 
The windows were low it had been his old habit to go in through them , and he now went up to one unconsciously . 
She smiled even , when he leaned against the window , with a careless welcome . 
It did not suit him , this . 
If you know a man's nature , you comprehend why . 
The bitterest reproach , or a proud contempt would have been less galling than this gentle indifference . 
His hold had slipped from off the woman , he believed . 
She did not love him he was nothing to her . 
Then love was a lie . 
He came gravely across the room , holding out his hand with his old quiet control . 
She might be cold and grave as he , but underneath he knew there was a thwarted , hungry spirit , a strong , fine spirit as dainty Ariel . 
He would sting it to life , and tame it it was his . 
I thought you would come , Stephen , she said , simply , motioning him to a chair . 
Could this automaton be Margret ? He leaned on the mantel shelf , looking down with a cynical sneer . 
Is that the welcome ? Why , there are a thousand greetings for this time of love and good words you might have chosen . 
Besides , I have come back ill and poor , a beggar perhaps . 
How do women receive such , generous women ? Is there no etiquette ? no hand shaking ? nothing more ? remembering that I was once not indifferent to you . 
She stood still and grave as before . 
Why , Margret , I have been down near death since that night . 
He thought her lips grew gray , but she looked up clear and steady . 
I am glad you did not die . 
Yes , I can say that . 
As for hand shaking , my ideas may be peculiar as your own . 
She measures her words , he said , as to himself her very eye light is ruled by decorum she is a machine , for work . 
She has swept her child's heart clean of anger and revenge , even scorn for the wretch that sold himself for money . 
Margret , let us be serious and calm . 
It is no time to trifle or wear masks . 
That has passed between us which leaves no room for sham courtesies . 
There needs none , meeting his eye unflinchingly . 
I am ready to meet you and hear your good bye . 
Knowles told me your marriage was near at hand . 
I knew you would come , Stephen . 
He winced , the more that her voice was so clear of pain . 
Why should I come ? To show you what sort of a heart I have sold for money ? Why , you think you know , little Margret . 
You can reckon up its deformity , its worthlessness , on your cool fingers . 
Don't venture too near it in your coldness and prudence . 
It has tiger passions I will not answer for . 
Give me your hand , and feel how it pants like a hungry fiend . 
It will have food , Margret . 
She drew away the hand he grasped , and stood back in the shadow . 
What is it to me ? in the same measured voice . 
Holmes wiped the cold drops from his forehead , a sort of shudder in his powerful frame . 
He stood a moment looking into the fire , his head dropped on his arm . 
Let it be so , he said at last , quietly . 
The worn old heart can gnaw on itself a little longer . 
I have no mind to whimper over pain . 
He had not seen the movement , or , if he saw , did not heed it . 
He did not care to tame her now . 
The firelight flashed and darkened , the crackling wood breaking the dead silence of the room . 
It does not matter , he said , raising his head , laying his arm over his strong chest unconsciously , as if to shut in all complaint . 
It was an idle fancy . 
What is my want or crime to you ? The answer came slowly , but it did come . 
She tried to meet the gaunt face looking down on her with its proud sadness , did meet it at last with her meek eyes . 
No , nothing to you . 
There is no need that I should stay longer , is there ? You made ready to meet me , and have gone through your part well . 
I speak God's truth to you as I can . 
There is nothing more for us to say to each other in this world , then , except good night . 
Words polite words are bitterer than death , sometimes . 
If ever we happen to meet , that courteous smile on your face will be enough to speak God's truth for you . 
Shall we say good night now ? If you will . 
She drew farther into the shadow , leaning on a chair . 
He stopped , some sudden thought striking him . 
I have a whim , he said , dreamily , that I would like to satisfy . 
Anything you wish , Stephen , she said , gravely . 
Come nearer , then , and let me see what I have lost . 
A heart so cold and strong as yours need not fear inspection . 
I have a fancy to look into it , for the last time . 
She stood motionless and silent . 
It was a true woman's motion , remembering even then to scorn deception . 
Her own quailed and fell . 
Does it hurt you that I should even look at you ? he said , drawing back . 
Be patient , for the sake of the old time . 
My whim is not satisfied yet . 
Tell me something of yourself , to take with me when I go , for the last time . 
Shall I think of you as happy in these days ? I am contented , the words oozing from her white lips in the bitterness of truth . 
I asked God , that night , to show me my work and I think He has shown it to me . 
It is a great work . 
Is that all ? he demanded , fiercely . 
It pleases me to feel I have a warm home , and to help keep it cheerful . 
When my father kisses me at night , or my mother says , God bless you , child , I know that is enough , that I ought to be happy . 
The old clock in the corner hummed and ticked through the deep silence , like the humble voice of the home she toiled to keep warm , thanking her , comforting her . 
He watched her more as a judge would a criminal , as she sat before him she struggled weakly under the power of his eye , not meeting it . 
He waited relentless , seeing her face slowly whiten , her limbs shiver , her bosom heave . 
Let me speak for you , he said at last . 
I know who once filled your heart to the exclusion of all others it is no time for mock shame . 
I know it was my hand that held the very secret of your being . 
Whatever I may have been , you loved me , Margret . 
Will you say that now ? I loved you , once . 
Whether it were truth that nerved her , or self delusion , she was strong now to utter it all . 
You love me no longer , then ? I love you no longer . 
She did not look at him she was conscious only of the hot fire wearing her eyes , and the vexing click of the clock . 
After a while he bent over her silently , a manly , tender presence . 
When love goes once , he said , it never returns . 
Did you say it was gone , Margret ? One effort more , and Duty would be satisfied . 
In the slow darkness that came to her she covered her face , knowing and hearing nothing . 
When she looked up , Holmes was standing by the window , with his face toward the gray fields . 
It was a long time before he turned and came to her . 
You have spoken honestly it is an old fashion of yours . 
You believed what you said . 
Let me also tell you what you call God's truth , for a moment , Margret . 
It will not do you harm . 
He spoke gravely , solemnly . 
It was calmness that made her tremble as she had not done before , with a strange suspicion of the truth flashing on her . 
Nobler than she half angry as she felt that , sitting at his feet , looking up . 
He knew it , too the grave judging voice told it he had taken his rightful place . 
I think she was glad to be humbled before him . 
Women have strange fancies , sometimes . 
You have deceived yourself , he said when you try to fill your heart with this work , you serve neither your God nor your fellow man . 
I have keen eyes , Margret ! He laughed . 
So hard it was to force yourself into an old worn out woman ! Oh , Margret ! Margret ! She moaned under her breath . 
I notice trifles , child ! Yonder , in that corner , used to stand the desk where I helped you with your Latin . 
How you hated it ! Do you remember ? I remember . 
It always stood there it is gone now . 
Outside of the gate there was that elm I planted , and you promised to water while I was gone . 
It is cut down now by the roots . 
I had it done , Stephen . 
Do you know why ? Because you love me because you do not dare to think of me , you dare not trust yourself to look at the tree that I had planted . 
She started up with a cry , and stood there in the old way , her fingers catching at each other . 
It is cruel , let me go ! It is not cruel . 
He came up closer to her . 
She sat down on a low stool , leaning her head on her hands . 
The little figure , the bent head , the quivering chin brought up her childhood to him . 
She used to sit so when he had tormented her , waiting to be coaxed back to love and smiles again . 
The hard man's eyes filled with tears , as he thought of it . 
It will not touch you , it is too late to hope for that , but it is right that you should hear it . 
As you will , Stephen . 
I had a curious dream to night , Margret , a waking dream only a clear vision of what had been once . 
Do you remember the old time ? What disconnected rambling was this ? Yet the girl understood it , looked into the low fire with sad , listening eyes . 
Something better , too , I had . 
A purer self than was born with me came late in life , and nestled in my heart . 
I was your master , too . 
I held my own soul by no diviner right than I held your love and owed you mine . 
I understand it , now , when it is too late . 
He wiped the cold drops from his face . 
I think , sometimes , I came near to the nature of the damned who dare not love I would not . 
It was then I hurt you , Margret , to the death your true life lay in me , as mine in you . 
He had gone on drearily , as though holding colloquy with himself , as though great years of meaning surged up and filled the broken words . 
It may have been thus with the girl , for her face deepened as she listened . 
For the first time for many long days tears welled up into her eyes , and rolled between her fingers unheeded . 
When I lay yonder , my soul on the coast of eternity , I resolved to atone for every selfish deed . 
I had no thought of happiness God knows I had no hope of it . 
I had wronged you most I could not die with that wrong unforgiven . 
Unforgiven , Stephen ? she sobbed I forgave it long ago . 
He looked at her a moment , then by some effort choked down the word he would have spoken , and went on with his bitter confession . 
I came through the crowded town , a homeless , solitary man , on the Christmas eve when love comes to every man . 
If ever I had grown sick for a word or touch from the one soul to whom alone mine was open , I thirsted for it then . 
The better part of my nature was crushed out , and flung away with you , Margret . 
I cried for it , I wanted help to be a better , purer man . 
Holmes went to the window the dull waste of snow looked to him as hopeless and vague as his own life . 
I have deserved it , he muttered to himself . 
It is too late to amend . 
Some light touch thrilled his arm . 
Is it too late , Stephen ? whispered a childish voice . 
The strong man trembled , looking at the little dark figure standing near him . 
We were both wrong I have been untrue , selfish . 
Stephen , help me to be a better girl let us be friends again . 
She went back unconsciously to the old words of their quarrels long ago . 
Do not mock me , he gasped . 
Do not mock me with more courtesy . 
I do not let us be friends again . 
She was crying like a penitent child her face was turned away love , pure and deep , was in her eyes . 
The red fire light grew stronger the clock hushed its noisy ticking to hear the story . 
Holmes's pale lip worked what was this coming to him ? His breast heaved , a dry heat panted in his veins , his deep eyes flashed fire . 
She must rest her head here . 
My little friend must be my wife . 
She looked into the strong , haggard face , a smile crept out on her own , arch and debonair like that of old time . 
I am tired , Stephen , she whispered , and softly laid her head down on his breast . 
Without , the deep night paused , gray , impenetrable . 
Forever , not even death would part them he knew that , holding her closer , looking down into her face . 
What a pale little face it was ! Through the intensest heat of his passion the sting touched him . 
Some instinct made her glance up at him , with a keen insight , seeing the morbid gloom that was the man's sin , in his face . 
She lifted her head from his breast , and when he stooped to touch her lips , shook herself free , laughing carelessly . 
No more tranced raptures for to night , let to morrow bring what it would . 
You do not seem to find your purer self altogether perfect ? she demanded . 
That is right , Stephen . 
Remorse grows maudlin when it goes into words , laughing again at his astounded look . 
He took her hand , a dewy , healthy hand , the very touch of it meant action and life . 
She stood a little way off , her great brown eyes flashing with tears . 
It was so strange a joy to find herself cared for , when she had believed she was old and hard the very idle jesting made her youth and happiness real to her . 
Holmes saw that with his quick tact . 
He flung playfully a crimson shawl that lay there about her white neck . 
My wife must suffer her life to flush out in gleams of colour and light her cheeks must hint at a glow within , as yours do now . 
I will have no hard angles , no pallor , no uncertain memory of pain in her life it shall be perpetual summer . 
He loosened her hair , and it rolled down about the bright , tearful face , shining in the red fire light like a mist of tawny gold . 
I need warmth and freshness and light my wife shall bring them to me . 
There is midnight , she said . 
There was a dark , sturdy figure pacing up and down the road , that she did not see . 
It was there when the night was over , and morning began to dawn . 
Such an humble castle in the air ! Christmas morning was surely something to him . 
Yet , as the night passed , he went back to the years that had been wasted , with an unavailing bitterness . 
He would not turn from the truth , that , with his strength of body and brain to command happiness and growth , his life had been a failure . 
But vaguely , though Christmas day as yet was to him the day when love came into the world . 
He knew the meaning of that . 
So he watched with an eagerness new to him the day breaking . 
He could see Margret's window , and a dim light in it she would be awake , praying for him , no doubt . 
And then Never mind what then . 
Stephen Holmes was very much in love , and this Christmas day had much to bring him . 
Yet it was with a solemn shadow on his face that he watched the dawn , showing that he grasped the awful meaning of this day that brought love into the world . 
Through the clear , frosty night he could hear a low chime of distant bells shiver the air , hurrying faint and far to tell the glad tidings . 
He fancied that the dawn flushed warm to hear the story , that the very earth should rejoice in its frozen depths , if it were true . 
He could hear from the church on the hill that they were singing again the old song of the angels . 
But in his soul lit eyes there are warm tears , and on his worn face a sad and solemn joy . 
I AM going to end my story now . 
She had looked that way all day , however . 
Knowles was hurt deep enough when he saw Holmes , and suspected the worst , under all his good humour . 
It was a bitter disappointment to give up the girl for , beside the great work , he loved her in an uncouth fashion , and hated Holmes . 
Something in the wet brown eye perhaps recalled a forgotten dream of his boyhood for he sighed sharply , and did not swear as he meant to . 
Margret had arranged a settle for the sick girl by the kitchen fire , but they all came out to speak to her . 
As for the dinner , it was the essence of all Christmas dinners Dickens himself , the priest of the genial day , would have been contented . 
I may as well come out with the whole truth , and acknowledge that at the present writing the old gentleman is the very hottest Secessionist I know . 
If it hurts the type , write it down a vice of blood , O printers of New England ! The dinner , perhaps , was fresher and heartier after that . 
They piled up comforts and blankets in the cart , and she lay on them quite snugly , her scarred child's face looking out from a great woollen hood Mrs. Howth gave her . 
Old Yare held Barney , with his hat in his hand , looking as if he deserved hanging , but very proud of the kindness they all showed his girl . 
Holmes gave him some money for a Christmas gift , and he took it , eagerly enough . 
Now that they were alone they gathered close about the fire , while the day without grew gray and colder , Margret in her old place by her father's knee . 
Some dim instinct had troubled the old man all day it did now whenever Margret spoke , he listened eagerly , and forgot to answer sometimes , he was so lost in thought . 
And I think you and I had better come away . 
The old man got up at last , and Holmes led him to the library , where he smoked every evening . 
He held Maggie , as he called her , in his arms a long time , and wrung Holmes's hand . 
God bless you , Stephen ! he said , this is a very happy Christmas day to me . 
And yet , sitting alone , the tears ran over his wrinkled face as he smoked and when his pipe went out , he did not know it , but sat motionless . 
Mrs. Howth , fairly confounded by the shock , went up stairs , and stayed there a long time . 
When she came down , the old lady's blue eyes were tenderer , if that were possible , and her face very pale . 
She blushed at that , and then went up and kissed him . 
She had heard Joel's horse clattering up to the kitchen door , so concluded she would go out and scold him . 
Under the circumstances it would be a relief . 
If Mrs. Howth's nerves had been weak , she might have supposed that free born serving man seized with sudden insanity , from the sight that met her , going into the kitchen . 
Joel's good humour was proof against even this . 
I've scoured to some purpose , then . 
Dun't tell the mester it'll muddle his brains t' night . 
Squire More'll be down his self t' 'xplain . 
He rubbed the greasy fingers into his hair , while Mrs. Howth's eyes were fixed in dumb perplexity . 
I hed my suspicions , so'd he lay low , though , frum all women folks . 
Mebbe , charitably , ye didn't know Poke Run's the mester's ? I certainly do . 
But I do not see what this green ditch water is to me . 
And I think , Joel , It's more to ye nor all yer States' rights as I'm sick o' hearin' of . 
I'm glad that gell 'll git rest frum her mills an' her Houses o' Deviltry , she's got gumption fur a dozen women . 
He went on muttering , as he gathered up his pint pot and bottle , I'm goin' to send my Tim to college soon's the thing's in runnin' order . 
Lord ! what a lawyer that boy'll make ! Mrs. Howth's brain was still muddled . 
You are better pleased than you were at Lincoln's election , she observed , placidly . 
Lincoln be darned ! he broke out , forgetting the teachings of Mr. Clinche . 
Now , Mem , dun't ye muddle the mester's brain t' night wi' 't , I say . 
I'm goin' t' 'xperiment myself a bit . 
Something , some new belief , too , stirs in his heart , like a subtile atom of pure fire , that he hugs closely , his for all time . 
No poverty or death shall ever drive it away . 
Perhaps he entertains an angel unaware . 
After that night Lois never left her little shanty . 
He used to read most from the Gospel of St . 
As the day drew near when she was to go , every pleasant trifle seemed to gather a deeper , solemn meaning . 
Jenny Balls came in one night , and old Mrs. Polston . 
Lois did like to see it sat up , her face quite flushed to see how nicely it fitted , and stroked back Jenny's soft hair under the veil . 
And Jenny , being a warm hearted little thing , broke into a sobbing fit , saying that it spoiled it all to have Lois gone . 
Don't muss your veil , child , said Mrs. Polston . 
But Jenny cried on , hiding her face in Lois's skinny hand , until Sam Polston came in , when she grew quiet and shy . 
The poor deformed girl lay watching them , as they talked . 
Very pretty Jenny looked , with her blue eyes and damp pink cheeks and it was a manly , grave love in Sam's face , when it turned to her . 
A different love from any she had known better , she thought . 
It could not be helped but it WAS better . 
After they were gone , she lay a long time quiet , with her hand over her eyes . 
Forgive her ! she , too , was a woman . 
She did not see it bitterly now . 
She did not say once , I might have been , but day by day , more surely , I shall be . 
Old Yare pointed it out to Mrs. Polston one day . 
My girl's far off frum us , he said , sobbing in the kitchen , my girl's far off now . 
It was the last night of the year that she died . 
She was so much better that they all were quite cheerful . 
I'll make you a New Year's call , he said , going out and she called out that she should be sure to expect him . 
But Lois asked them not to go until the Old Year was over so they waited down stairs . 
The old man fell asleep , and it was near midnight when he wakened with a cold touch on his hand . 
It's come , father ! He started up with a cry , looking at the new smile in her eyes , grown strangely still . 
Let me hev yoh to myself , Lo , 't th' last yoh're all I hev let me hev yoh 't th' last . 
It was a bitter disappointment , but she roused herself even then to smile , and tell him yes , cheerfully . 
The fire light grew warmer and redder her eyes followed it , as if all that had been bright and kindly in her life were coming back in it . 
She put her hand on her father , trying vainly to smooth his gray hair . 
She laughed and nodded to them all in the old childish way then her lips moved . 
It's come right ! she tried to say but the weak voice would never speak again on earth . 
It's the turn o' the night , said Mrs. Polston , solemnly lift her head the Old Year's 'goin' out . 
Margret lifted her head , and held it on her breast . 
So the Old Year went out in that music . 
The dull eyes , loving to the end , wandered vaguely as the sounds died away , as if losing something , losing all , suddenly . 
She sighed as the clock struck , and then a strange calm , unknown before , stole over her face her eyes flashed open with a living joy . 
Margret stooped to close them , kissing the cold lids and Tiger , who had climbed upon the bed , whined and crept down . 
It is the New Year , said Holmes , bending his head . 
The cripple was dead but LOIS , free , loving , and beloved , trembled from her prison to her Master's side in the To Morrow . 
I can show you her grave out there in the hills , a short , stunted grave , like a child's . 
I have no key to solve them with , no right to solve them . 
The Old Year is on us yet . 
Poor old Knowles will tell you it is a dark day bewildered at the inexplicable failure of the cause for which his old blood ran like water that dull morning at Ball's Bluff . 
Holmes , like most men who make destiny , does not pause in his cool , slow work for their prophecy or lamentation . 
Such men will mould the age , old Knowles says , drearily , for he does not like Holmes follows him unwillingly , even knowing him nearer the truth than he . 
Born for mastership , as I told you long ago they strike the blow , while . 
I'm tired of theorists , exponents of the abstract right your Hamlets , and your Sewards , that let occasion slip until circumstance or mobs drift them as they will . 
But Knowles's growls are unheeded , as usual . 
Something of Lois's live , universal sympathy has come into her narrow , intenser nature through its one love , it may be . 
Here is work , life the Old Year you despise holds beauty , pain , content yet unmastered let us leave Margret to master them . 
It may be yet I say unto you , their angels only do always behold the face of our Father in the New Year . 
