Master Humphrey's Clock by Charles Dickens Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
uk Master Humphrey's Clock by Charles Dickens CHAPTER I MASTER HUMPHREY , FROM HIS CLOCK SIDE IN THE CHIMNEY CORNER THE reader must not expect to know where I live . 
Bearing this possible contingency in mind , I wish them to understand , in the outset , that they must never expect to know it . 
I am not a churlish old man . 
Friendless I can never be , for all mankind are my kindred , and I am on ill terms with no one member of my great family . 
I live in a venerable suburb of London , in an old house which in bygone days was a famous resort for merry roysterers and peerless ladies , long since departed . 
Those who like to read of brilliant rooms and gorgeous furniture would derive but little pleasure from a minute description of my simple dwelling . 
It is dear to me for the same reason that they would hold it in slight regard . 
The moth and spider are my constant tenants for in my house the one basks in his long sleep , and the other plies his busy loom secure and undisturbed . 
I have a pleasure in thinking on a summer's day how many butterflies have sprung for the first time into light and sunshine from some dark corner of these old walls . 
Various rumours were circulated to my prejudice . 
I was a spy , an infidel , a conjurer , a kidnapper of children , a refugee , a priest , a monster . 
Mothers caught up their infants and ran into their houses as I passed men eyed me spitefully , and muttered threats and curses . 
I was the object of suspicion and distrust ay , of downright hatred too . 
But when in course of time they found I did no harm , but , on the contrary , inclined towards them despite their unjust usage , they began to relent . 
I took this for a good omen , and waited patiently for better times . 
By degrees I began to make friends among these humble folks and though they were yet shy of speaking , would give them 'good day , and so pass on . 
These little people soon grew more familiar . 
And now I never walk abroad but pleasant recognitions and smiling faces wait on Master Humphrey . 
With my detractors , I was Ugly Humphrey . 
When I began to convert them into friends , I was Mr. Humphrey and Old Mr. Humphrey . 
I have never been made a misanthrope by this cause . 
I have never been stung by any insult , nor wounded by any jest upon my crooked figure . 
God knows I was a happy child at those times , happy to nestle in her breast , happy to weep when she did , happy in not knowing why . 
These occasions are so strongly impressed upon my memory , that they seem to have occupied whole years . 
I had numbered very , very few when they ceased for ever , but before then their meaning had been revealed to me . 
I do not know whether all children are imbued with a quick perception of childish grace and beauty , and a strong love for it , but I was . 
I had no thought that I remember , either that I possessed it myself or that I lacked it , but I admired it with an intensity that I cannot describe . 
Well , well , all these sorrows are past . 
Chief and first among all these is my Clock , my old , cheerful , companionable Clock . 
How can I ever convey to others an idea of the comfort and consolation that this old Clock has been for years to me ! It is associated with my earliest recollections . 
, nigh sixty years ago . 
I incline to it as if it were alive , and could understand and give me back the love I bear it . 
It stands in a snug corner , midway between the fireside and a low arched door leading to my bedroom . 
to inform him the exact time by Master Humphrey's clock . 
My barber , to whom I have referred , would sooner believe it than the sun . 
Nor are these its only distinctions . 
I lived alone here for a long time without any friend or acquaintance . 
But these were the only friends I knew , and beyond them I had none . 
It happened , however , when I had gone on thus for a long time , that I formed an acquaintance with a deaf gentleman , which ripened into intimacy and close companionship . 
To this hour , I am ignorant of his name . 
It is his humour to conceal it , or he has a reason and purpose for so doing . 
Be this as it may , we have grown to be like brothers , and still I only know him as the deaf gentleman . 
I have said that retirement has become a habit with me . 
When I add , that the deaf gentleman and I have two friends , I communicate nothing which is inconsistent with that declaration . 
The deaf gentleman and I first began to beguile our days with these fancies , and our nights in communicating them to each other . 
It is pleasant to think that even then our shades may , perhaps , assemble together as of yore we did , and join in ghostly converse . 
One night in every week , as the clock strikes ten , we meet . 
At the second stroke of two , I am alone . 
The first roll of paper on which I lay my hand is in the writing of the deaf gentleman . 
He was a very substantial citizen indeed . 
The girth of his waistcoat was hung up and lettered in his tailor's shop as an extraordinary curiosity . 
He breathed like a heavy snorer , and his voice in speaking came thickly forth , as if it were oppressed and stifled by feather beds . 
He trod the ground like an elephant , and eat and drank like like nothing but an alderman , as he was . 
This worthy citizen had risen to his great eminence from small beginnings . 
, he , this man , this learned recorder , had said , 'my lord . 
Good night , my lord . 
'Look at me , look hard at me , harder , harder . 
'You pinch me , sir . 
You're a hurting of me , said the Lord Mayor elect pettishly . 
'Don't , suppose anybody should come , Mr. Toddyhigh , sir . 
Toddyhigh ! repeated the other ruefully . 
'O , don't bother , said the Lord Mayor elect , scratching his head . 
'Dear me ! Why , I thought you was dead . 
What a fellow you are ! Indeed , it was a pretty state of things , and worthy the tone of vexation and disappointment in which the Lord Mayor spoke . 
They parted one day to seek their fortunes in different directions . 
The world is a wide place , and it was a long time before the letter came when it did , the writer was forgotten . 
I'd sooner have given twenty pound , it's very inconvenient , really . 
A thought had come into his mind , that perhaps his old friend might say something passionate which would give him an excuse for being angry himself . 
Joe looked at him steadily , but very mildly , and did not open his lips . 
'Of course I shall pay you what I owe you , said the Lord Mayor elect , fidgeting in his chair . 
'You lent me I think it was a shilling or some small coin when we parted company , and that of course I shall pay with good interest . 
I can pay my way with any man , and always have done . 
If you look into the Mansion House the day after to morrow , some time after dusk , and ask for my private clerk , you'll find he has a draft for you . 
I don't mind your having this ticket , if you like to take it . 
A great many people would give their ears for it , I can tell you . 
His old friend took the card without speaking a word , and instantly departed . 
Finally , he went to bed , and dreamed that he and the Lord Mayor elect were boys again . 
The more he thought of this , the more lonely and sad he felt . 
When the company dispersed and adjourned to the ball room , he paced the hall and passages alone , ruminating in a very melancholy condition upon the disappointment he had experienced . 
His attention gradually relaxed , and he fell fast asleep . 
He began now to comprehend that he must have slept a long time , that he had been overlooked , and was shut up there for the night . 
As he turned to execute this purpose , he heard the clocks strike three . 
Any such invasion of a dead stillness as the striking of distant clocks , causes it to appear the more intense and insupportable when the sound has ceased . 
But the bells had all pealed out their warning for that once , and the gust of wind that moaned through the place seemed cold and heavy with their iron breath . 
The time and circumstances were favourable to reflection . 
But how much greater yet was his astonishment at the spectacle which this light revealed . 
These guardian genii of the City had quitted their pedestals , and reclined in easy attitudes in the great stained glass window . 
The night wanes feasting , revelry , and music have encroached upon our usual hours of solitude , and morning will be here apace . 
Ere we are stricken mute again , bethink you of our compact . 
to the guardian genii of their city , we are susceptible of some of the sensations which belong to human kind . 
Thus when I taste wine , I feel blows when I relish the one , I disrelish the other . 
Therefore , Gog , the more especially as your arm is none of the lightest , keep your good staff by your side , else we may chance to differ . 
Peace be between us ! 'Amen ! said the other , leaning his staff in the window corner . 
He was twoscore and ten years old when he buried it beneath his house , and yet never thought that he might be scarcely fit to drink when the wine became so . 
I wonder it never occurred to him to make himself unfit to be eaten . 
There is very little of him left by this time . 
'The night is waning , said Gog mournfully . 
'I know it , replied his companion , 'and I see you are impatient . 
The night is scarcely past its noon , and our great charge is sleeping heavily . 
They ceased to speak , and looked upward at the moon . 
The sight of their large , black , rolling eyes filled Joe Toddyhigh with such horror that he could scarcely draw his breath . 
Still they took no note of him , and appeared to believe themselves quite alone . 
That every night at midnight , when St . 
Paul's bell tolls out one , and we may move and speak , we thus discourse , nor leave such themes till the first gray gleam of day shall strike us dumb . 
We are old chroniclers from this time hence . 
The axe , the block , the rack , in their dark chambers give signs of recent use . 
But your pardon , brother . 
The night wears , and I am talking idly . 
His alarm was such that he nearly swooned , and it was some little time before his power of sight or hearing was restored . 
, there lived in the city of London a bold young 'prentice who loved his master's daughter . 
There were no doubt within the walls a great many 'prentices in this condition , but I speak of only one , and his name was Hugh Graham . 
This Hugh was apprenticed to an honest Bowyer who dwelt in the ward of Cheype , and was rumoured to possess great wealth . 
Rumour was quite as infallible in those days as at the present time , but it happened then as now to be sometimes right by accident . 
It stumbled upon the truth when it gave the old Bowyer a mint of money . 
His trade had been a profitable one in the time of King Henry the Eighth , who encouraged English archery to the utmost , and he had been prudent and discreet . 
Thus it came to pass that Mistress Alice , his only daughter , was the richest heiress in all his wealthy ward . 
Young Hugh had often maintained with staff and cudgel that she was the handsomest . 
To do him justice , I believe she was . 
If he could have gained the heart of pretty Mistress Alice by knocking this conviction into stubborn people's heads , Hugh would have had no cause to fear . 
to Hugh , and though he was at a vast expense in kisses and small coin to recompense her fidelity , he made no progress in his love . 
He durst not whisper it to Mistress Alice save on sure encouragement , and that she never gave him . 
He thought of her all day , and dreamed of her all night long . 
He treasured up her every word and gesture , and had a palpitation of the heart whenever he heard her footstep on the stairs or her voice in an adjoining room . 
To him , the old Bowyer's house was haunted by an angel there was enchantment in the air and space in which she moved . 
It would have been no miracle to Hugh if flowers had sprung from the rush strewn floors beneath the tread of lovely Mistress Alice . 
Never did 'prentice long to distinguish himself in the eyes of his lady love so ardently as Hugh . 
If he could only enact some prodigy of valour , do some wonderful deed , and let her know that she had inspired it , he thought he could die contented . 
These were the brightest moments of his life . 
In those times no less than in the present it would seem that the richest looking cavaliers often wanted money the most . 
Of these glittering clients there was one who always came alone . 
He was nobly mounted , and , having no attendant , gave his horse in charge to Hugh while he and the Bowyer were closeted within . 
Once as he sprung into the saddle Mistress Alice was seated at an upper window , and before she could withdraw he had doffed his jewelled cap and kissed his hand . 
Hugh watched him caracoling down the street , and burnt with indignation . 
At length one heavy day , she fled from home . 
she had no power to ask , but she prayed God to bless him , and so ended with a blot upon the paper where her tears had fallen . 
This afterwards appeared to be the truth , as there came from France , after an interval of several years , a letter in her hand . 
It was written in trembling characters , and almost illegible . 
From the time of Alice's flight , the tilting ground , the fields , the fencing school , the summer evening sports , knew Hugh no more . 
His spirit was dead within him . 
He rose to great eminence and repute among the citizens , but was seldom seen to smile , and never mingled in their revelries or rejoicings . 
Brave , humane , and generous , he was beloved by all . 
One night in May it was her birthnight , and twenty years since she had left her home Hugh Graham sat in the room she had hallowed in his boyish days . 
He was now a gray haired man , though still in the prime of life . 
Old thoughts had borne him company for many hours , and the chamber had gradually grown quite dark , when he was roused by a low knocking at the outer door . 
He hastened down , and opening it saw by the light of a lamp which he had seized upon the way , a female figure crouching in the portal . 
It hurried swiftly past him and glided up the stairs . 
There were none in sight . 
He was inclined to think it a vision of his own brain , when suddenly a vague suspicion of the truth flashed upon his mind . 
He barred the door , and hastened wildly back . 
Everything was in its old place . 
Her bed looked as if she had risen from it but that morning . 
She wept and fell upon the ground . 
A rumour was spread about , in a few days' time , that the Bowyer's cruel daughter had come home , and that Master Graham had given her lodging in his house . 
Royal Proclamations usually take their course , let the public wonder never so much . 
as might have the temerity to dispute it and a few to bear the standard measures and instruments for reducing all unlawful sword blades to the prescribed dimensions . 
In pursuance of these arrangements , Master Graham and another were posted at Lud Gate , on the hill before St . 
Thereupon the gallant raised his hat and crying , 'God save the Queen ! passed on amidst the plaudits of the mob . 
Then came another a better courtier still who wore a blade but two feet long , whereat the people laughed , much to the disparagement of his honour's dignity . 
laughed very heartily at the breakage which would ensue . 
But all this time no rapier had been broken , although it was high noon , and all cavaliers of any quality or appearance were taking their way towards Saint Paul's churchyard . 
During these proceedings , Master Graham had stood apart , strictly confining himself to the duty imposed upon him , and taking little heed of anything beyond . 
He stepped forward now as a richly dressed gentleman on foot , followed by a single attendant , was seen advancing up the hill . 
As this person drew nearer , the crowd stopped their clamour , and bent forward with eager looks . 
Master Graham standing alone in the gateway , and the stranger coming slowly towards him , they seemed , as it were , set face to face . 
had a haughty and disdainful air , which bespoke the slight estimation in which he held the citizen . 
It was perhaps some consciousness on the part of each , of these feelings in the other , that infused a more stern expression into their regards as they came closer together . 
'Your rapier , worthy sir ! At the instant that he pronounced these words Graham started , and falling back some paces , laid his hand upon the dagger in his belt . 
'You are the man whose horse I used to hold before the Bowyer's door ? You are that man ? Speak ! 'Out , you 'prentice hound ! said the other . 
'You are he ! I know you well now ! cried Graham . 
'Let no man step between us two , or I shall be his murderer . 
With that he drew his dagger , and rushed in upon him . 
The stranger had drawn his weapon from the scabbard ready for the scrutiny , before a word was spoken . 
The dagger fell rattling on the ground , and Graham , wresting his adversary's sword from his grasp , plunged it through his heart . 
As he drew it out it snapped in two , leaving a fragment in the dead man's body . 
All this passed so swiftly that the bystanders looked on without an effort to interfere but the man was no sooner down than an uproar broke forth which rent the air . 
In vain he waved the broken sword above his head , crying that he would die on London's threshold for their sacred homes . 
They bore him on , and ever keeping him in the midst , so that no man could attack him , fought their way into the city . 
Wherever the broken sword was seen above the people's heads , towards that spot the cavaliers made a new rush . 
But either from ignorance or in the confusion of the moment they stopped at his old house , which was closely shut . 
Some time was lost in beating the doors open and passing him to the front . 
'Least of all will I turn upon this threshold which owes its desolation to such men as ye . 
I give no quarter , and I will have none ! Strike ! For a moment they stood at bay . 
After a short time some of the flushed and heated throng laid down their arms and softly carried the body within doors . 
Those who carried Master Graham to the bed up stairs were shocked to see a woman lying beneath the window with her hands clasped together . 
The Giant uttered these concluding words with sudden precipitation and on the instant the strange light which had filled the hall faded away . 
Joe Toddyhigh glanced involuntarily at the eastern window , and saw the first pale gleam of morning . 
He turned his head again towards the other window in which the Giants had been seated . 
The cask of wine was gone , and he could dimly make out that the two great figures stood mute and motionless upon their pedestals . 
When he awoke it was broad day the building was open , and workmen were busily engaged in removing the vestiges of last night's feast . 
Don't reject me without full consideration for if you do , you will be sorry for it afterwards you will , upon my life . 
'I enclose my card , sir , in this letter . 
I never was ashamed of my name , and I never shall be . 
I am considered a devilish gentlemanly fellow , and I act up to the character . 
If you want a reference , ask any of the men at our club . 
Ask any fellow who goes there to write his letters , what sort of conversation mine is . 
Ask him if he thinks I have the sort of voice that will suit your deaf friend and make him hear , if he can hear anything at all . 
Ask the servants what they think of me . 
There's not a rascal among 'em , sir , but will tremble to hear my name . 
That reminds me don't you say too much about that housekeeper of yours it's a low subject , damned low . 
'I tell you what , sir . 
If you vote me into one of those empty chairs , you'll have among you a man with a fund of gentlemanly information that'll rather astonish you . 
I can let you into a few anecdotes about some fine women of title , that are quite high life , sir the tiptop sort of thing . 
I have been called the gentlemanly chronicle . 
You may consider yourself a lucky dog upon my soul , you may congratulate yourself , though I say so . 
'It's an uncommon good notion that of yours , not letting anybody know where you live . 
I have tried it , but there has always been an anxiety respecting me , which has found me out . 
Your deaf friend is a cunning fellow to keep his name so close . 
I have tried that too , but have always failed . 
I shall be proud to make his acquaintance tell him so , with my compliments . 
'You must have been a queer fellow when you were a child , confounded queer . 
It's odd , all that about the picture in your first paper prosy , but told in a devilish gentlemanly sort of way . 
who will be proud to join you . 
In point of gentlemanliness he is unrivalled , and I should say that next to myself he is of all men the best suited to your purpose . 
'Expecting your reply , 'I am , c . 
Master Humphrey informs this gentleman that his application , both as it concerns himself and his friend , is rejected . 
CHAPTER II MASTER HUMPHREY , FROM HIS CLOCK SIDE IN THE CHIMNEY CORNER MY old companion tells me it is midnight . 
The fire glows brightly , crackling with a sharp and cheerful sound , as if it loved to burn . 
, this ruddy blaze , my clock , and I , seem to share the world among us , and to be the only things awake . 
The wind , high and boisterous but now , has died away and hoarsely mutters in its sleep . 
The popular faith in ghosts has a remarkable affinity with the whole current of our thoughts at such an hour as this , and seems to be their necessary and natural consequence . 
, and mourn my loss it is thus that I revisit the ashes of extinguished fires , and take my silent stand at old bedsides . 
Solitary men are accustomed , I suppose , unconsciously to look upon solitude as their own peculiar property . 
I had sat alone in my room on many , many anniversaries of this great holiday , and had never regarded it but as one of universal assemblage and rejoicing . 
I had excepted , and with an aching heart , a crowd of prisoners and beggars but THESE were not the men for whom the Tavern doors were open . 
Had they any customers , or was it a mere form ? a form , no doubt . 
Trying to feel quite sure of this , I walked away but before I had gone many paces , I stopped and looked back . 
There was a provoking air of business in the lamp above the door which I could not overcome . 
The supposition gave rise to so many distressing little pictures , that in preference to carrying them home with me , I determined to encounter the realities . 
So I turned and walked in . 
He did not look so old as I , but like me he was advanced in life , and his hair was nearly white . 
, and sat where I could observe without intruding on him . 
After a time he looked up . 
He was aware that somebody had entered , but could see very little of me , as I sat in the shade and he in the light . 
He was sad and thoughtful , and I forbore to trouble him by speaking . 
Let me believe it was something better than curiosity which riveted my attention and impelled me strongly towards this gentleman . 
I never saw so patient and kind a face . 
He should have been surrounded by friends , and yet here he sat dejected and alone when all men had their friends about them . 
He was not used to solitude . 
His mind was wandering among old Christmas days , I thought . 
Many of them sprung up together , not with a long gap between each , but in unbroken succession like days of the week . 
in an empty silent room with no soul to care for . 
The very waiter had gone home and his representative , a poor , lean , hungry man , was keeping Christmas in his jacket . 
I grew still more interested in my friend . 
His dinner done , a decanter of wine was placed before him . 
It remained untouched for a long time , but at length with a quivering hand he filled a glass and raised it to his lips . 
He put it down very hastily took it up once more again put it down pressed his hand upon his face yes and tears stole down his cheeks , I am certain . 
Without pausing to consider whether I did right or wrong , I stepped across the room , and sitting down beside him laid my hand gently on his arm . 
'My friend , I said , 'forgive me if I beseech you to take comfort and consolation from the lips of an old man . 
I will not preach to you what I have not practised , indeed . 
'There should be a freemasonry between us , said I , pointing from himself to me to explain my meaning 'if not in our gray hairs , at least in our misfortunes . 
You see that I am but a poor cripple . 
From that time to the present we have never touched upon this theme . 
I scarcely know how we communicate as we do but he has long since ceased to be deaf to me . 
He is frequently my companion in my walks , and even in crowded streets replies to my slightest look or gesture , as though he could read my thoughts . 
His powers in this respect are much assisted by a large pipe , which he assures us once belonged to a German Student . 
Be this as it may , it has undoubtedly a very ancient and mysterious appearance , and is of such capacity that it takes three hours and a half to smoke it out . 
Whatever sorrow my dear friend has known , and whatever grief may linger in some secret corner of his heart , he is now a cheerful , placid , happy creature . 
Such is the deaf gentleman . 
I can call up his figure now , clad in sober gray , and seated in the chimney corner . 
For myself , it is not too much to say that I would gladly part with one of my poor limbs , could he but hear the old clock's voice . 
He is my librarian , secretary , steward , and first minister director of all my affairs , and inspector general of my household . 
He is remarkably fond of children , and is the best and kindest nurse in sickness that ever drew the breath of life . 
I should be puzzled to say how old he is . 
On these last named occasions he is apt to incline towards the mysterious , or the terrible . 
, under the influence of which he would dress himself with peculiar care , and , going out under pretence of taking a walk , disappeared for several days together . 
He is an excellent man , of thoroughly sterling character not of quick apprehension , and not without some amusing prejudices , which I shall leave to their own development . 
He holds us all in profound veneration but Jack Redburn he esteems as a kind of pleasant wonder , that he may venture to approach familiarly . 
These are my friends I have now introduced myself and them . 
This is the last night I have to live , and I will set down the naked truth without disguise . 
I was never a brave man , and had always been from my childhood of a secret , sullen , distrustful nature . 
Soon after my return to England , my only brother was seized with mortal illness . 
This circumstance gave me slight or no pain for since we had been men , we had associated but very little together . 
He was open hearted and generous , handsomer than I , more accomplished , and generally beloved . 
We had married two sisters . 
This additional tie between us , as it may appear to some , only estranged us the more . 
His wife knew me well . 
I never struggled with any secret jealousy or gall when she was present but that woman knew it as well as I did . 
It was an inexpressible relief to me when we quarrelled , and a greater relief still when I heard abroad that she was dead . 
It seems to me now as if some strange and terrible foreshadowing of what has happened since must have hung over us then . 
I was afraid of her she haunted me her fixed and steady look comes back upon me now , like the memory of a dark dream , and makes my blood run cold . 
She died shortly after giving birth to a child a boy . 
He exchanged a few brotherly words with me , deploring our long separation and being exhausted , fell into a slumber , from which he never awoke . 
The child was ardently attached to her but he was his mother's image in face and spirit , and always mistrusted me . 
I can scarcely fix the date when the feeling first came upon me but I soon began to be uneasy when this child was by . 
It was no effort of my fancy , founded on close resemblance of feature and expression . 
I never could look the boy down . 
Perhaps I hide the truth from myself , but I do not think that , when this began , I meditated to do him any wrong . 
I may have thought how serviceable his inheritance would be to us , and may have wished him dead but I believe I had no thought of compassing his death . 
of hearing too , was a deep sheet of water . 
I spent days in shaping with my pocket knife a rough model of a boat , which I finished at last and dropped in the child's way . 
Then I withdrew to a secret place , which he must pass if he stole away alone to swim this bauble , and lurked there for his coming . 
He came neither that day nor the next , though I waited from noon till nightfall . 
I was close upon him , had sunk upon my knee and raised my hand to thrust him in , when he saw my shadow in the stream and turned him round . 
His mother's ghost was looking from his eyes . 
The sun burst forth from behind a cloud it shone in the bright sky , the glistening earth , the clear water , the sparkling drops of rain upon the leaves . 
There were eyes in everything . 
The whole great universe of light was there to see the murder done . 
I know not what he said he came of bold and manly blood , and , child as he was , he did not crouch or fawn upon me . 
I heard him cry that he would try to love me , not that he did , and then I saw him running back towards the house . 
I took him in my arms and laid him very gently now that he was dead in a thicket . 
My wife was from home that day , and would not return until the next . 
All my thoughts were bound up and knotted together in the one absorbing necessity of hiding what I had done . 
I buried him that night . 
When I parted the boughs and looked into the dark thicket , there was a glow worm shining like the visible spirit of God upon the murdered child . 
I had to meet my wife , and break the news , and give her hope that the child would soon be found . 
All this I did , with some appearance , I suppose , of being sincere , for I was the object of no suspicion . 
This done , I sat at the bedroom window all day long , and watched the spot where the dreadful secret lay . 
The men who laid down the grass must have thought me mad . 
I called to them continually to expedite their work , ran out and worked beside them , trod down the earth with my feet , and hurried them with frantic eagerness . 
They had finished their task before night , and then I thought myself comparatively safe . 
At this point I always woke and stole to the window , to make sure that it was not really so . 
Once I thought the child was alive , and that I had never tried to kill him . 
To wake from that dream was the most dreadful agony of all . 
When a servant walked across it , I felt as if he must sink in when he had passed , I looked to see that his feet had not worn the edges . 
There was not a sight or a sound how ordinary , mean , or unimportant soever but was fraught with fear . 
And in this state of ceaseless watching I spent three days . 
On the fourth there came to the gate one who had served with me abroad , accompanied by a brother officer of his whom I had never seen . 
I felt that I could not bear to be out of sight of the place . 
It was a summer evening , and I bade my people take a table and a flask of wine into the garden . 
Then I sat down WITH MY CHAIR UPON THE GRAVE , and being assured that nobody could disturb it now without my knowledge , tried to drink and talk . 
They hoped that my wife was well , that she was not obliged to keep her chamber , that they had not frightened her away . 
I could not divest myself of the idea that he saw something there which caused him to suspect the truth . 
I asked him hurriedly if he supposed that and stopped . 
'Bloodhounds ! cried my visitors . 
What need to tell me that ! I had never seen one of that kind in all my life , but I knew what they were and for what purpose they had come . 
I grasped the elbows of my chair , and neither spoke nor moved . 
'They are of the genuine breed , said the man whom I had known abroad , 'and being out for exercise have no doubt escaped from their keeper . 
I saw how I looked , in the faces of the two who were with me . 
'They scent some prey , said they , both together . 
'They scent no prey ! cried I. 'In Heaven's name , move ! said the one I knew , very earnestly , 'or you will be torn to pieces . 
'There is some foul mystery here ! said the officer whom I did not know , drawing his sword . 
'In King Charles's name , assist me to secure this man . 
They both set upon me and forced me away , though I fought and bit and caught at them like a madman . 
What more have I to tell ? That I fell upon my knees , and with chattering teeth confessed the truth , and prayed to be forgiven . 
That I have since denied , and now confess to it again . 
That I have been tried for the crime , found guilty , and sentenced . 
That I have not the courage to anticipate my doom , or to bear up manfully against it . 
That I have no compassion , no consolation , no hope , no friend . 
That my wife has happily lost for the time those faculties which would enable her to know my misery or hers . 
That I am alone in this stone dungeon with my evil spirit , and that I die to morrow . 
CORRESPONDENCE Master Humphrey has been favoured with the following letter written on strongly scented paper , and sealed in light blue wax with the representation of two very plump doves interchanging beaks . 
It does not commence with any of the usual forms of address , but begins as is here set forth . 
Yes , I am writing to a man but let me not think of that , for madness is in the thought . 
You will understand my feelings ? O yes , I am sure you will and you will respect them too , and not despise them , will you ? Let me be calm . 
Let me be calmer yet I would be calm as coffins . 
You have published a letter from one whose likeness is engraved , but whose name is suppressed . 
For as the poet beautifully says but you will already have anticipated the sentiment . 
that I met him first and assuredly if mortal happiness be recorded anywhere , then those rubbers with their three and sixpenny points are scored on tablets of celestial brass . 
He always held an honour generally two . 
On that eventful night we stood at eight . 
He raised his eyes to my agitated face . 
'CAN you ? said he , with peculiar meaning . 
I felt the gentle pressure of his foot on mine our corns throbbed in unison . 
'CAN you ? he said again and every lineament of his expressive countenance added the words 'resist me ? I murmured 'No , and fainted . 
They said , when I recovered , it was the weather . 
I said it was the nutmeg in the negus . 
He drew the latter , uncorked the former , and clicked the trigger of the pocket fire arm . 
He had come , he said , to conquer or to die . 
He wrested from me an avowal of my love , and let off the pistol out of a back window previous to partaking of a slight repast . 
My brain is in a whirl again . 
You know his address , his occupations , his mode of life , are acquainted , perhaps , with his inmost thoughts . 
You are a humane and philanthropic character reveal all you know all but especially the street and number of his lodgings . 
The post is departing , the bellman rings , pray Heaven it be not the knell of love and hope to BELINDA . 
P. S. Pardon the wanderings of a bad pen and a distracted mind . 
Address to the Post office . 
The bellman , rendered impatient by delay , is ringing dreadfully in the passage . 
I have been led by this habit to assign to every room in my house and every old staring portrait on its walls a separate interest of its own . 
In the courtyard below is a stone face of surpassing ugliness , which I have somehow in a kind of jealousy , I am afraid associated with her husband . 
piques herself upon an old family quarrel , and is the implacable enemy of their love . 
With such materials as these I work out many a little drama , whose chief merit is , that I can bring it to a happy end at will . 
I could conceive no announcement to which these appearances could be the prelude , unless it were that they had married each other that morning . 
I was , consequently , a little disappointed when it only came out that there was a gentleman in the house who wished to speak with me . 
'Well ! said I , 'bid the gentleman come here . 
This seemed to be the consummation of the barber's hopes , for he turned sharp round , and actually ran away . 
'My dear sir , said that gentleman as I rose to receive him , 'pray be seated . 
Now , do not stand on my account . 
I must insist upon it , really . 
With these words Mr. Pickwick gently pressed me down into my seat , and taking my hand in his , shook it again and again with a warmth of manner perfectly irresistible . 
I endeavoured to express in my welcome something of that heartiness and pleasure which the sight of him awakened , and made him sit down beside me . 
All this time he kept alternately releasing my hand and grasping it again , and surveying me through his spectacles with such a beaming countenance as I never till then beheld . 
'You knew me directly ! said Mr. Pickwick . 
As I thought it a good opportunity of adverting to the circumstance , I condoled with him upon the various libels on his character which had found their way into print . 
'It is enough for me that you give me this gratification . 
I have not the least desire that you should tell me by what means I have obtained it . 
Therefore , although I was rejoiced to think that I had anticipated his drift , I feigned to be quite ignorant of it , and after a brief consideration shook my head despairingly . 
As I made him this answer every feature of Mr. Pickwick's face fused itself into one all pervading expression of delight . 
'You have not told me , said I , 'anything about Sam Weller . 
'O ! Sam , replied Mr. Pickwick , 'is the same as ever . 
The same true , faithful fellow that he ever was . 
, I am afraid I must often include Mr. Weller too . 
When I had satisfied him on these points , I took him up into my room , that he might make acquaintance with the old chamber which is our place of meeting . 
I could not forbear telling him once more how glad he had made me , and we shook hands all the way down stairs . 
, greeted Mr. Pickwick with her best smile and courtesy and the barber , feigning to be accidentally passing on his way out , made him a vast number of bows . 
I saw him to the door an omnibus was at the moment passing the corner of the lane , which Mr. Pickwick hailed and ran after with extraordinary nimbleness . 
The man behind the omnibus shouted , and Mr. Pickwick ran a little way towards him then he looked round at me , and ran a little way back again . 
Then there was another shout , and he turned round once more and ran the other way . 
I lost no time in opening the parcel he had left with me . 
The following were its contents MR . 
John Podgers was broad , sturdy , Dutch built , short , and a very hard eater , as men of his figure often are . 
You may believe that the little town of Windsor did not escape the general contagion . 
The inhabitants boiled a witch on the king's birthday and sent a bottle of the broth to court , with a dutiful address expressive of their loyalty . 
He began to set witch traps in the highway , and was often seen lying in wait round the corner for hours together , to watch their effect . 
, John started from a doze , pounced out upon her , and hung round her neck till assistance arrived , when she was immediately carried away and drowned . 
Nor was their wonder diminished when a horseman dashed up to the porch , and abruptly checking his steed , inquired where one John Podgers dwelt . 
'Here ! cried a dozen voices , while a dozen hands pointed out sturdy John , still basking in the terrors of the pamphlet . 
The rider , giving his bridle to one of those who surrounded him , dismounted , and approached John , hat in hand , but with great haste . 
'Whence come ye ? said John . 
'And wherefore ? 'On most pressing business . 
'Of what nature ? 'Witchcraft . 
Surely he must have been bewitched himself , or he never could have done it and the young lady too , or she never would have let him . 
'Witchcraft ! cried Will , drowning the sound of his last kiss , which was rather a loud one . 
in defence of their lawful partners . 
'Not he , added another voice in the crowd . 
'Besides , said a red faced gentleman with a gruff voice , 'he's a single man . 
The messenger looked towards Will Marks beseechingly . 
'It will be a wet night , friend , and my gray nag is tired after yesterday's work Here there was a general titter . 
In five minutes I shall be in the saddle , unless I am depriving any worthy gentleman here of the honour of the adventure , which I wouldn't do for the world . 
Will , however , being inflexible , parried his uncle's objections with a joke , and coaxed the young lady into a smile in three short whispers . 
'You see what a rare thing it is to be married , said Will , 'and how careful and considerate all these husbands are . 
There's not a man among them but his heart is leaping to forestall me in this adventure , and yet a strong sense of duty keeps him back . 
'Now , said Will , leaping into the saddle at a bound , 'up and away . 
Upon your mettle , friend , and push on . 
They were out of sight in a minute . 
The men who were left behind shook their heads doubtfully , stroked their chins , and shook their heads again . 
They gave him a great quantity of wholesome advice besides , and which was more to the purpose with Will a good supper . 
All these things being done , and midnight nearly come , they sallied forth to show him the spot where he was to keep his dreary vigil . 
The night was by this time dark and threatening . 
There was a rumbling of distant thunder , and a low sighing of wind among the trees , which was very dismal . 
'Look ! shrieked a voice . 
'Great Heaven , it has fallen down , and stands erect as if it lived ! The speaker was close behind him the voice was almost at his ear . 
'Where is the body ? repeated the questioner more firmly than before . 
'You wear no livery which marks you for the hireling of the government . 
You are no friend to us , or I should recognise you , for the friends of such as we are few in number . 
What are you then , and wherefore are you here ? 'I am no foe to the distressed and helpless , said Will . 
'Are ye among that number ? ye should be by your looks . 
'We are ! was the answer . 
'Is it ye who have been wailing and weeping here under cover of the night ? said Will . 
'It is , replied the woman sternly and pointing , as she spoke , towards her companion , 'she mourns a husband , and I a brother . 
Will glanced at the two females , and could barely discern that the one whom he addressed was much the elder , and that the other was young and of a slight figure . 
A sight so different from any he had expected to encounter touched him to the quick , and all idea of anything but their pitiable condition vanished before it . 
'I am a rough , blunt yeoman , said Will . 
'Why I came here is told in a word you have been overheard at a distance in the silence of the night , and I have undertaken a watch for hags or spirits . 
I came here expecting an adventure , and prepared to go through with any . 
'How comes this gibbet to be empty ? asked the elder female . 
'I swear to you , replied Will , 'that I know as little as yourself . 
The women spoke together , and Will retired a pace or two while they conversed apart . 
He could hear them sob and moan , and saw that they wrung their hands in fruitless agony . 
When they had been in conversation a long time , they turned towards him once more . 
This time the younger female spoke . 
'You have offered us your help ? 'I have . 
'And given a pledge that you are still willing to redeem ? 'Yes . 
So far as I may , keeping all plots and conspiracies at arm's length . 
Through mud and mire , and wind and rain , they walked in silence a full mile . 
, in obedience to a whisper from the women , he consigned to Will , who , seeing that they mounted , mounted also . 
Then , without a word spoken , they rode on together , leaving the attendant behind . 
They made no halt nor slackened their pace until they arrived near Putney . 
He had not been here very long , when the door was softly opened , and there entered to him a cavalier whose face was concealed beneath a black mask . 
Will stood upon his guard , and scrutinised this figure from head to foot . 
The form was that of a man pretty far advanced in life , but of a firm and stately carriage . 
He was booted and spurred , and bore about him even as many tokens of the state of the roads as Will himself . 
All this he noted , while the eyes behind the mask regarded him with equal attention . 
This survey over , the cavalier broke silence . 
'Thou'rt young and bold , and wouldst be richer than thou art ? 'The two first I am , returned Will . 
'The last I have scarcely thought of . 
Say that I would be richer than I am what then ? 'The way lies before thee now , replied the Mask . 
'First let me inform thee , that thou wert brought here to night lest thou shouldst too soon have told thy tale to those who placed thee on the watch . 
'I thought as much when I followed , said Will . 
'But I am no blab , not I. 'Good , returned the Mask . 
He who was to have executed the enterprise of burying that body , which , as thou hast suspected , was taken down to night , has left us in our need . 
'Thou art here , and the emergency is desperate . 
I propose his task to thee . 
, by means that I shall show , to the Church of St . 
Dunstan in London to morrow night , and thy service shall be richly paid . 
Thou'rt about to ask whose corpse it is . 
I warn thee , seek not to know . 
Felons hang in chains on every moor and heath . 
Believe , as others do , that this was one , and ask no further . 
The murders of state policy , its victims or avengers , had best remain unknown to such as thee . 
'The mystery of this service , said Will , 'bespeaks its danger . 
What is the reward ? 'One hundred golden unities , replied the cavalier . 
'The danger to one who cannot be recognised as the friend of a fallen cause is not great , but there is some hazard to be run . 
Decide between that and the reward . 
'What if I refuse ? said Will . 
Men were readier to undertake desperate adventures in those times than they are now . 
It was now eight o'clock . 
After nine , none could walk the streets without danger of their lives , and even at this hour , robberies and murder were of no uncommon occurrence . 
These odious matters being left to putrefy in the close and heavy air , emitted an insupportable stench , to which every court and passage poured forth a contribution of its own . 
Many parts , even of the main streets , with their projecting stories tottering overhead and nearly shutting out the sky , were more like huge chimneys than open ways . 
But it was not in such scenes as these , or even in the deep and miry road , that Will Marks found the chief obstacles to his progress . 
, who , scenting what he carried , followed the cart or fluttered on its top , and croaked their knowledge of its burden and their ravenous appetite for prey . 
Nothing was abroad but cruelty , violence , and disorder . 
Many were the interruptions which Will Marks encountered from these stragglers , and many the narrow escapes he made . 
All these assailants had to be rebutted , some by fair words , some by foul , and some by blows . 
As he had been forewarned , all was in readiness . 
Directly he stopped , the coffin was removed by four men , who appeared so suddenly that they seemed to have started from the earth . 
Will never saw cart or man again . 
He followed the body into the church , and it was well he lost no time in doing so , for the door was immediately closed . 
There was no light in the building save that which came from a couple of torches borne by two men in cloaks , who stood upon the brink of a vault . 
Each supported a female figure , and all observed a profound silence . 
One of the torch bearers then turned to Will , and stretched forth his hand , in which was a purse of gold . 
Something told him directly that those were the same eyes which he had seen beneath the mask . 
'Take it , said the cavalier in a low voice , 'and be happy . 
he became quite a tame and milk and water character . 
Having embraced his uncle and assured him of his safety , Will mounted on a table and told his story to the crowd . 
On one point Will was particularly careful and that was to describe for the witches he had seen , three impossible old females , whose likenesses never were or will be . 
Thus he saved the lives of the suspected parties , and of all other old women who were dragged before him to be identified . 
For this service to the state he was immediately knighted , and became from that time Sir John Podgers . 
As he kept his own secret , he was compelled to spend the gold discreetly and sparingly . 
At length the night came , and a few minutes after ten Mr. Pickwick's knock was heard at the street door . 
He looked very rosy and very stout , especially about the legs , which appeared to have been compressed into his top boots with some difficulty . 
His broad brimmed hat he held under his left arm , and with the forefinger of his right hand he touched his forehead a great many times in acknowledgment of my presence . 
'I am very glad to see you in such good health , Mr. Weller , said I. 'Why , thankee , sir , returned Mr. Weller , 'the axle an't broke yet . 
My son Samivel , sir , as you may have read on in history , added Mr. Weller , introducing his first born . 
I received Sam very graciously , but before he could say a word his father struck in again . 
Sammy , relate a anecdote o' vun o' them boys , that 'ere little anecdote about young Tony sayin' as he WOULD smoke a pipe unbeknown to his mother . 
By this curious mode of treatment Mr. Weller was finally recovered , but with a very crimson face , and in a state of great exhaustion . 
'He'll do now , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , who had been in some alarm himself . 
'He'll do , sir ! cried Sam , looking reproachfully at his parent . 
'Yes , he WILL do one o' these days , he'll do for his self and then he'll wish he hadn't . 
These emotions , however , gradually subsided , and after three or four short relapses he wiped his eyes with the cuff of his coat , and looked about him with tolerable composure . 
'Afore the governor vith draws , said Mr. Weller , 'there is a pint , respecting vich Sammy has a qvestion to ask . 
Vile that qvestion is a perwadin' this here conwersation , p'raps the genl'men vill permit me to re tire . 
'Wot are you goin' away for ? demanded Sam , seizing his father by the coat tail . 
'I never see such a undootiful boy as you , Samivel , returned Mr. Weller . 
The fact is , sir , said Sam , addressing me , 'that he wants to know somethin' respectin' that 'ere lady as is housekeeper here . 
Mr. Pickwick laughed heartily , and so did I , as I replied decisively , that 'my housekeeper was a spinster . 
'There ! cried Sam , 'now you're satisfied . 
You hear she's a spinster . 
'A wot ? said his father , with deep scorn . 
'A spinster , replied Sam . 
Mr. Weller looked very hard at his son for a minute or two , and then said , 'Never mind vether she makes jokes or not , that's no matter . 
'Your father didn't drive a coach for so many years , not to be ekal to his own langvidge as far as THAT goes , Sammy . 
Avoiding the question of etymology , upon which the old gentleman's mind was quite made up , he was several times assured that the housekeeper had never been married . 
Wot a old Carter would have said , a old Coachman may say , and I as sert that in that pint o' view alone , the rail is an inwaser . 
'I would , indeed , my dear sir , he said very seriously 'I would have shown my respect for the society , by laying aside my gaiters . 
'You may rest assured , said I , 'that they would have regretted your doing so very much , for they are quite attached to them . 
'No , really ! cried Mr. Pickwick , with manifest pleasure . 
'Do you think they care about my gaiters ? Do you seriously think that they identify me at all with my gaiters ? 'I am sure they do , I replied . 
He has a secret pride in his legs . 
The manner in which he spoke , and the accompanying glance he bestowed upon his tights , convince me that Mr. Pickwick regards his legs with much innocent vanity . 
'But here are our friends , said I , opening the door and taking his arm in mine 'let them speak for themselves . 
Gentlemen , I present to you Mr. Pickwick . 
Mr. Pickwick and I must have been a good contrast just then . 
I made him personally known to each of my friends in turn . 
First , to the deaf gentleman , whom he regarded with much interest , and accosted with great frankness and cordiality . 
His meeting with Jack Redburn was quite a treat to see . 
As to Jack himself , he was quite as much delighted with Mr. Pickwick as Mr. Pickwick could possibly be with him . 
Two people never can have met together since the world began , who exchanged a warmer or more enthusiastic greeting . 
It was amusing to observe the difference between this encounter and that which succeeded , between Mr. Pickwick and Mr. Miles . 
These causes led to a rather cold and formal reception which Mr. Pickwick acknowledged with the same stateliness and intense politeness as was displayed on the other side . 
This piece of generalship was perfectly successful . 
The instant he took his seat , Mr. Pickwick surveyed us all with a most benevolent aspect , and was taken with a fit of smiling full five minutes long . 
His interest in our ceremonies was immense . 
They are not very numerous or complicated , and a description of them may be comprised in very few words . 
Our first proceeding when we are assembled is to shake hands all round , and greet each other with cheerful and pleasant looks . 
We have never had an offender in this respect but if we had , there is no doubt that he would be taken to task pretty severely . 
Our salutation over , the venerable piece of antiquity from which we take our name is wound up in silence . 
, who mounts upon a chair for the purpose , armed with a large key . 
This regulation afforded Mr. Pickwick the highest delight , and seemed , if possible , to exalt Jack in his good opinion . 
, the taking from it as many papers as will furnish forth our evening's entertainment , and arranging in the recess such new contributions as have been provided since our last meeting . 
This is always done with peculiar solemnity . 
Our preliminaries being now concluded , we fall into any train of conversation that happens to suggest itself , or proceed immediately to one of our readings . 
Mr. Pickwick's face , while his tale was being read , would have attracted the attention of the dullest man alive . 
As our conversation had naturally turned upon the vacant seat , we lent a willing ear to this remark , and looked at our friend inquiringly . 
'I feel sure , said he , 'that Mr. Pickwick must be acquainted with somebody who would be an acquisition to us that he must know the man we want . 
Pray let us not lose any time , but set this question at rest . 
'I have certainly heard the name before . 
, although he is only incidentally mentioned and , if I remember right , appears but once . 
'That's it , said Jack . 
'Where does he live ? I inquired . 
Mr. Miles received this account of our proposed companion with rather a wry face , and after murmuring that perhaps he was a little mad , inquired if he were rich . 
'I never asked him , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'You might know , sir , for all that , retorted Mr. Miles , sharply . 
'Perhaps so , sir , said Mr. Pickwick , no less sharply than the other , 'but I do not . 
Indeed , he added , relapsing into his usual mildness , 'I have no means of judging . 
He lives poorly , but that would seem to be in keeping with his character . 
I never heard him allude to his circumstances , and never fell into the society of any man who had the slightest acquaintance with them . 
I have really told you all I know about him , and it rests with you to say whether you wish to know more , or know quite enough already . 
, and between its contents , and the conversation they occasioned , the remainder of our time passed very quickly . 
When we broke up , Mr. Pickwick took me aside to tell me that he had spent a most charming and delightful evening . 
It was amusing to observe the contest in his mind whether he should extend his confidence to Mr. Miles , or treat him with dignified reserve . 
'Now , Sam , said Mr. Pickwick , when he had got down stairs . 
'All right , sir , replied Mr. Weller . 
Right arm fust now the left now one strong conwulsion , and the great coat's on , sir . 
'I think not to night , said Mr. Pickwick . 
'Then if this here lady vill per mit , rejoined Mr. Weller , 'we'll leave it here , ready for next journey . 
The housekeeper graciously promised to keep the object of Mr. Weller's regard in the safest possible custody , and Mr. Pickwick , with a laughing face , took his leave . 
'Indeed , said she , 'without Mr. Slithers I should have been placed in quite an awkward situation . 
'There is no call for any hock'erdness , mum , said Mr. Weller with the utmost politeness 'no call wotsumever . 
A lady , added the old gentleman , looking about him with the air of one who establishes an incontrovertible position , 'a lady can't be hock'erd . 
The housekeeper inclined her head and smiled yet more sweetly . 
His whole delight wos in his trade . 
'Astonishing ! cried the barber . 
'Not a bit , said Sam , 'human natur' neat as imported . 
Then , doctor , says Jinkinson , vill you come unshaved , and let me shave you ? I will , says the doctor . 
God bless you , says Jinkinson . 
Next day the doctor came , and arter he'd been shaved all skilful and reg'lar , he says , Jinkinson , he says , it's wery plain this does you good . 
Wot's that 'ere snippin' noise ? says the lawyer every now and then it's like a man havin' his hair cut . 
It IS wery like a man havin' his hair cut , says poor Jinkinson , hidin' the scissors , and lookin' quite innocent . 
By the time the lawyer found it out , he was wery nearly bald . 
'Wot do you mean by too fur ? demanded Sam . 
'In that 'ere little compliment respectin' the want of hock'erdness in ladies , Sammy , replied his father . 
'You don't think she's fallen in love with you in consekens o' that , do you ? said Sam . 
'More unlikelier things have come to pass , my boy , replied Mr. Weller in a hoarse whisper 'I'm always afeerd of inadwertent captiwation , Sammy . 
Samivel , total abstinence , if YOU please . 
'But I like it of all things , said the housekeeper . 
'No , rejoined Mr. Weller , shaking his head , 'no . 
'Upon my word I do , said the housekeeper . 
Mr. Weller coughed , and notwithstanding the barber's confirmation of the statement , said 'No' again , but more feebly than before . 
From this iron frame of mind he was roused by the voice of his son . 
The housekeeper affably declared that it was the very thing she had been thinking of . 
The barber said the same . 
Mr. Weller said nothing , but he laid down his pipe as if in a fit of inspiration , and performed the following manoeuvres . 
'That , said Mr. Weller , laying it on the table with its face upwards , 'is the title and emblem o' this here society . 
Sammy , reach them two stools this vay for the wacant cheers . 
Ladies and gen'lmen , Mr. Weller's Watch is vound up and now a goin' . 
Having uttered this friendly caution , the President settled himself in his chair with great dignity , and requested that Mr. Samuel would relate an anecdote . 
'I've told one , said Sam . 
'Wery good , sir tell another , returned the chair . 
'We wos a talking jist now , sir , said Sam , turning to Slithers , 'about barbers . 
Pursuing that 'ere fruitful theme , sir , I'll tell you in a wery few words a romantic little story about another barber as p'r'aps you may never have heerd . 
You , sir , will correct me if I'm wrong , but I believe there IS such a word in the dictionary as hairdressers . 
'Well , but suppose he wasn't a hairdresser , suggested Sam . 
'Wy then , sir , be parliamentary and call him vun all the more , returned his father . 
'In the same vay as ev'ry gen'lman in another place is a Honourable , ev'ry barber in this place is a hairdresser . 
It is a common remark , confirmed by history and experience , that great men rise with the circumstances in which they are placed . 
'Here's the story , said Sam . 
Then , and not till then , he says , I vill approach the altar . 
'I ain't a makin' any , am I ? inquired Sam . 
'Order , sir ! rejoined Mr. Weller , with severe dignity . 
Now , he says , it's all up . 
The hairdresser rushes out to meet her , but d'rectly she sees the dummies she changes colour and falls a tremblin' wiolently . 
Look up , my love , says the hairdresser , behold your imige in my winder , but not correcter than in my art ! My imige ! she says . 
Yourn ! replies the hairdresser . 
But whose imige is THAT ? she says , a pinting at vun o' the gen'lmen . 
No vun's , my love , he says , it is but a idea . 
Villiam Gibbs , she says , quite firm , never renoo the subject . 
I respect you as a friend , she says , but my affections is set upon that manly brow . 
This , says the hairdresser , is a reg'lar blight , and in it I perceive the hand of Fate . 
'The young lady , Mr. Weller ? said the housekeeper . 
The barber declared that Mr. Weller had related one of the most interesting stories that had ever come within his knowledge , in which opinion the housekeeper entirely concurred . 
'Are you a married man , sir ? inquired Sam . 
The barber replied that he had not that honour . 
'I s'pose you mean to be ? said Sam . 
'Well , replied the barber , rubbing his hands smirkingly , 'I don't know , I don't think it's very likely . 
'That's a bad sign , said Sam 'if you'd said you meant to be vun o' these days , I should ha' looked upon you as bein' safe . 
You're in a wery precarious state . 
'I am not conscious of any danger , at all events , returned the barber . 
'No more wos I , sir , said the elder Mr. Weller , interposing 'those vere my symptoms , exactly . 
I've been took that vay twice . 
Keep your vether eye open , my friend , or you're gone . 
'No , but is there anythin' as agitates it ? pursued the old gentleman . 
'Sammy , said Mr. Weller , 'I mistrust that barber . 
'She don't know no better , Sammy , there ain't no harm in it , no danger , Sammy she's only a punster . 
She seemed pleased , though , didn't she ? O' course , she wos pleased , it's nat'ral she should be , wery nat'ral . 
'He's wain of it ! exclaimed Sam , joining in his father's mirth . 
'He's actually wain ! 'Hush ! replied Mr. Weller , composing his features , 'they're a comin' back , the little heart's a comin' back . 
But mark these wurds o' mine once more , and remember 'em ven your father says he said 'em . 
Samivel , I mistrust that 'ere deceitful barber . 
On the evening in question , the housekeeper's room was arranged with particular care , and the housekeeper herself was very smartly dressed . 
'Good ev'nin' , mum , said the older Mr. Weller , looking in at the door after a prefatory tap . 
'There's a naughty boy , mum , said Mr. Weller , bursting with delight , 'there's a immoral Tony . 
He wouldn't pass vun single blessed post , mum , and at the top o' the lane there's seven and forty on 'em all in a row , and wery close together . 
then patted him on the head , and declared that he was the finest boy she had ever seen . 
'Wy , mum , said Mr. Weller , 'I don't think you'll see a many sich , and that's the truth . 
'Petticuts , mum , returned that gentleman , laying his hand upon the garments of his grandson . 
'If my son Samivel , mum , vould only dis pense vith these here , you'd see such a alteration in his appearance , as the imagination can't depicter . 
'But what would you have the child wear instead , Mr. Weller ? said the housekeeper . 
Tony , my boy , tell the lady wot them clothes are , as grandfather says , father ought to let you vear . 
'That's the cos toom , mum , said Mr. Weller , looking proudly at the housekeeper . 
She coughed doubtfully , but said nothing . 
'How many brothers and sisters have you , my dear ? she asked , after a short silence . 
'One brother and no sister at all , replied Tony . 
'Sam his name is , and so's my father's . 
Do you know my father ? 'O yes , I know him , said the housekeeper , graciously . 
'Is my father fond of you ? pursued Tony . 
'I hope so , rejoined the smiling housekeeper . 
It was , perhaps , on this account that he changed the subject precipitately . 
'O , very sad ! assented the housekeeper . 
'No , Tony , not you , said Mr. Weller . 
'I hope it warn't you , Tony . 
'He didn't hurt himself , I hope ? observed the housekeeper . 
'He knows better , he does , said Mr. Weller . 
Punctual to the hour , my friends appeared . 
On our last night of meeting , we had finished the story which the reader has just concluded . 
Our conversation took the same current as the meditations which the entrance of my friends had interrupted , and The Old Curiosity Shop was the staple of our discourse . 
To conceal anything from those to whom I am attached , is not in my nature . 
I can never close my lips where I have opened my heart . 
'I could have wished , my friend objected , 'that we had been made acquainted with the single gentleman's name . 
I don't like his withholding his name . 
It made me look upon him at first with suspicion , and caused me to doubt his moral character , I assure you . 
I am fully satisfied by this time of his being a worthy creature but in this respect he certainly would not appear to have acted at all like a man of business . 
Personal Adventures of Master Humphrey . 
I made a note of it at the time . 
This led me to the point at once . 
'You will one and all forgive me , I returned , 'if for the greater convenience of the story , and for its better introduction , that adventure was fictitious . 
I had my share , indeed , no light or trivial one , in the pages we have read , but it was not the share I feigned to have at first . 
The younger brother , the single gentleman , the nameless actor in this little drama , stands before you now . 
It was easy to see they had not expected this disclosure . 
'I can look back upon my part in it with a calm , half smiling pity for myself as for some other man . 
But I am he , indeed and now the chief sorrows of my life are yours . 
Paul's as it struck the hour of midnight . 
Which of us here has seen the working of that great machine whose voice has just now ceased ? Mr. Pickwick had , of course , and so had Mr. Miles . 
Jack and my deaf friend were in the minority . 
I had seen it but a few days before , and could not help telling them of the fancy I had about it . 
Calm and unmoved amidst the scenes that darkness favours , the great heart of London throbs in its Giant breast . 
Wealth and beggary , vice and virtue , guilt and innocence , repletion and the direst hunger , all treading on each other and crowding together , are gathered round it . 
Draw but a little circle above the clustering housetops , and you shall have within its space everything , with its opposite extreme and contradiction , close beside . 
Where yonder feeble light is shining , a man is but this moment dead . 
The taper at a few yards' distance is seen by eyes that have this instant opened on the world . 
There are two houses separated by but an inch or two of wall . 
In one , there are quiet minds at rest in the other , a waking conscience that one might think would trouble the very air . 
Those who have spent the night on doorsteps and cold stones crawl off to beg they who have slept in beds come forth to their occupation , too , and business is astir . 
The fog of sleep rolls slowly off , and London shines awake . 
The streets are filled with carriages and people gaily clad . 
The jails are full , too , to the throat , nor have the workhouses or hospitals much room to spare . 
The courts of law are crowded . 
Taverns have their regular frequenters by this time , and every mart of traffic has its throng . 
Each of these places is a world , and has its own inhabitants each is distinct from , and almost unconscious of the existence of any other . 
They don't believe it quite , there may be some truth in it , but it is exaggerated , of course . 
I took them up again when I had got thus far , and seriously prepared to read . 
The handwriting was strange to me , for the manuscript had been fairly copied . 
Whoever he might be , he was prepared for this , and gave no sign for my enlightenment . 
I had the papers in my hand , when my deaf friend interposed with a suggestion . 
Nobody spoke , but I thought I detected in one quarter that this was really the case . 
Everybody being mute , we hold that understanding if you please . 
As this was for the convenience of listening to our stories , he submitted that they might be suffered to come in , and hear them more pleasantly . 
, and were accommodated with chairs at a little distance . 
My fire burns cheerfully the room is filled with my old friend's sober voice and I am left to muse upon the story we have just now finished . 
Thus , even age and weakness have their consolations . 
All the friends I have ever lost I find again among these visitors . 
I love to fancy their spirits hovering about me , feeling still some earthly kindness for their old companion , and watching his decay . 
'He is weaker , he declines apace , he draws nearer and nearer to us , and will soon be conscious of our existence . 
What is there to alarm me in this ? It is encouragement and hope . 
These thoughts have never crowded on me half so fast as they have done to night . 
It was very hard of heart , to my mind , I remember . 
But memory was given us for better purposes than this , and mine is not a torment , but a source of pleasure . 
To muse upon the gaiety and youth I have known suggests to me glad scenes of harmless mirth that may be passing now . 
From contemplating them apart , I soon become an actor in these little dramas , and humouring my fancy , lose myself among the beings it invokes . 
For then a knot of youthful creatures gather round my fireside , and the room re echoes to their merry voices . 
I have sons , and daughters , and grandchildren , and we are assembled on some occasion of rejoicing common to us all . 
It is a birthday , perhaps , or perhaps it may be Christmas time but be it what it may , there is rare holiday among us we are full of glee . 
In the chimney comer , opposite myself , sits one who has grown old beside me . 
She is changed , of course much changed and yet I recognise the girl even in that gray hair and wrinkled brow . 
They are very kind to me , but you will be kinder still , I know . 
I have my hand upon his neck , and stoop to kiss him , when my clock strikes , my chair is in its old spot , and I am alone . 
I never was less so I write it with a grateful heart than I am to night . 
THE DEAF GENTLEMAN FROM HIS OWN APARTMENT Our dear friend laid down his pen at the end of the foregoing paragraph , to take it up no more . 
I little thought ever to employ mine upon so sorrowful a task as that which he has left me , and to which I now devote it . 
As he did not appear among us at his usual hour next morning , we knocked gently at his door . 
His crutch and footstool lay at his feet as usual , and he was dressed in his chamber gown , which he had put on before I left him . 
Going up to him , we found him dead . 
I have often , very often , seen him sleeping , and always peacefully , but I never saw him look so calm and tranquil . 
He had relapsed for a moment into his late train of meditation , and , with a thoughtful smile upon his face , had died . 
I had long known it to be his wish that whenever this event should come to pass we might be all assembled in the house . 
I therefore lost no time in sending for Mr. Pickwick and for Mr. Miles , both of whom arrived before the messenger's return . 
It is not my purpose to dilate upon the sorrow and affectionate emotions of which I was at once the witness and the sharer . 
'And the sweet old creetur , sir , said the elder Mr. Weller to me in the afternoon , 'has bolted . 
I was not the less sensible of the old man's attachment because he expressed it in his peculiar manner . 
Our friend had frequently told us that his will would be found in a box in the Clock case , the key of which was in his writing desk . 
of his friendship and remembrance . 
To the housekeeper he left an annuity , sufficient for her comfortable maintenance and support through life . 
For the barber , who had attended him many years , he made a similar provision . 
His remaining wishes are very briefly told . 
My own history may be summed up in very few words and even those I should have spared the reader but for my friend's allusion to me some time since . 
Happily I was enabled to do so some time ago . 
And it will not be long , with Heaven's leave , before she is restored to me before I find in her and her husband the support of my declining years . 
For my pipe , it is an old relic of home , a thing of no great worth , a poor trifle , but sacred to me for her sake . 
Mindful of his injunctions , we have long been able to speak of him with ease and cheerfulness , and to remember him as he would be remembered . 
