The Project Gutenberg Etext of Thuvia , Maid of Mars CONTENTS CHAPTER PAGE I Carthoris and Thuvia . 
IV A Green Man's Captive . 
VI The Jeddak of Lothar . 
VIII The Hall of Doom . 
IX The Battle in the Plain . 
X Kar Komak , the Bowman . 
XI Green Men and White Apes . 
XIII Turjun , the Panthan . 
Glossary of Names and Terms . 
THUVIA , MAID OF MARS CHAPTER I CARTHORIS AND THUVIA Upon a massive bench of polished ersite beneath the gorgeous blooms of a giant pimalia a woman sat . 
Her queenly head was poised haughtily upon her smooth red shoulders . 
Her dark eyes looked angrily into those of the man . 
You forget yourself , and the customs of Barsoom , Astok , she said . 
I have given you no right thus to address the daughter of Thuvan Dihn , nor have you won such a right . 
The man reached suddenly forth and grasped her by the arm . 
You shall be my princess ! he cried . 
By the breast of Issus , thou shalt , nor shall any other come between Astok , Prince of Dusar , and his heart's desire . 
The act of Astok , Prince of Dusar , was profanation . 
There was no terror in the eyes of Thuvia of Ptarth only horror for the thing the man had done and for its possible consequences . 
Her voice was level frigid . 
The man muttered incoherently and drew her roughly toward him . 
Release me ! she repeated sharply , or I call the guard , and the Prince of Dusar knows what that will mean . 
Quickly he threw his right arm about her shoulders and strove to draw her face to his lips . 
With a little cry she struck him full in the mouth with the massive bracelets that circled her free arm . 
A tall , straight youth he was , with black hair and keen grey eyes broad of shoulder and narrow of hip a clean limbed fighting man . 
There was a difference , too , in his movements . 
He came on in great leaps that carried him so swiftly over the ground that the speed of the guardsmen was as nothing by comparison . 
Astok still clutched Thuvia's wrist as the young warrior confronted him . 
The new comer wasted no time and he spoke but a single word . 
Her champion turned toward the girl . 
Kaor , Thuvia of Ptarth ! he cried . 
It seems that fate timed my visit well . 
But say the word , Thuvia of Ptarth , he begged , and naught will give me greater pleasure than meting to this fellow the punishment he has earned . 
It cannot be , Carthoris , she replied . 
As you say , Thuvia , replied the Heliumite . 
But afterward he shall account to Carthoris , Prince of Helium , for this affront to the daughter of my father's friend . 
As he spoke , though , there burned in his eyes a fire that proclaimed a nearer , dearer cause for his championship of this glorious daughter of Barsoom . 
And thou to me , he snapped at Carthoris , answering the young man's challenge . 
The guard still surrounded Astok . 
It was a difficult position for the young officer who commanded it . 
His prisoner was the son of a mighty jeddak he was the guest of Thuvan Dihn until but now an honoured guest upon whom every royal dignity had been showered . 
To arrest him forcibly could mean naught else than war , and yet he had done that which in the eyes of the Ptarth warrior merited death . 
He looked toward his princess . 
She , too , guessed all that hung upon the action of the coming moment . 
For many years Dusar and Ptarth had been at peace with each other . 
Their great merchant ships plied back and forth between the larger cities of the two nations . 
No sense of fear influenced her decision , for fear is seldom known to the children of Mars . 
It was rather a sense of the responsibility that she , the daughter of their jeddak , felt for the welfare of her father's people . 
You will escort me to the palace , and the Prince of Helium will accompany me . 
On either side marched a file of guardsmen . 
As they disappeared within the structure Astok shrugged his shoulders , and with a murmured oath crossed the gardens toward another wing of the building where he and his retinue were housed . 
Carthoris was not present at the leave taking , nor was Thuvia . 
Beside her , in the brilliant light of the nearer moon , sat Carthoris . 
His eyes were not upon the dim bulk of the battleship , but on the profile of the girl's upturned face . 
The girl turned her eyes toward his . 
His hand stole out to find hers , but she drew her own gently away . 
Thuvia of Ptarth , I love you ! cried the young warrior . 
Tell me that it does not offend . 
She shook her head sadly . 
The young man got slowly to his feet . 
His eyes were wide in astonishment . 
It never had occurred to the Prince of Helium that Thuvia of Ptarth might love another . 
But at Kadabra ! he exclaimed . 
Nothing , Thuvia , that is true yet I could have sworn you loved me . 
Indeed , you well knew how near to worship has been my love for you . 
And how might I know it , Carthoris ? she asked innocently . 
Did you ever tell me as much ? Ever before have words of love for me fallen from your lips ? But you MUST have known it ! he exclaimed . 
You are playing with me ! exclaimed Carthoris . 
Say that you are but playing , and that after all you love me , Thuvia ! I cannot tell you that , Carthoris , for I am promised to another . 
Her tone was level , but was there not within it the hint of an infinite depth of sadness ? Who may say ? Promised to another ? Carthoris scarcely breathed the words . 
His face went almost white , and then his head came up as befitted him in whose veins flowed the blood of the overlord of a world . 
Carthoris of Helium wishes you every happiness with the man of your choice , he said . 
With and then he hesitated , waiting for her to fill in the name . 
Kulan Tith , Jeddak of Kaol , she replied . 
My father's friend and Ptarth's most puissant ally . 
The young man looked at her intently for a moment before he spoke again . 
You love him , Thuvia of Ptarth ? he asked . 
I am promised to him , she replied simply . 
He did not press her . 
He is of Barsoom's noblest blood and mightiest fighters , mused Carthoris . 
My father's friend and mine would that it might have been another ! he muttered almost savagely . 
He raised a jewel encrusted bit of the girl's magnificent trappings to his lips . 
I told you that I loved you , Thuvia , before I knew that you were promised to another . 
My love is such that it may embrace as well Kulan Tith if you love him . 
There was almost a question in the statement . 
I am promised to him , she replied . 
He laid one hand upon his heart , the other upon the pommel of his long sword . 
These are yours always , he said . 
A moment later he had entered the palace , and was gone from the girl's sight . 
Had he returned at once he would have found her prone upon the ersite bench , her face buried in her arms . 
Was she weeping ? There was none to see . 
Carthoris of Helium had come all unannounced to the court of his father's friend that day . 
He had come alone in a small flier , sure of the same welcome that always awaited him at Ptarth . 
As there had been no formality in his coming there was no need of formality in his going . 
For example , continued Carthoris , I have an all night trip before me , as to night . 
I set the pointer here upon the right hand dial which represents the eastern hemisphere of Barsoom , so that the point rests upon the exact latitude and longitude of Helium . 
Provided , suggested Thuvan Dihn , you do not chance to collide with some other night wanderer in the meanwhile . 
No danger of that , he replied . 
See here , and he indicated a device at the right of the destination compass . 
This is my obstruction evader , as I call it . 
This visible device is the switch which throws the mechanism on or off . 
The instrument itself is below deck , geared both to the steering apparatus and the control levers . 
It is quite simple , being nothing more than a radium generator diffusing radio activity in all directions to a distance of a hundred yards or so from the flier . 
You see I have anticipated almost every contingency . 
Thuvan Dihn smiled his appreciation of the marvellous device . 
The forward servant pushed almost to the flier's side . 
His eyes were narrowed to slits . 
All but one , he said . 
The nobles looked at him in astonishment , and one of them grasped the fellow none too gently by the shoulder to push him back to his proper place . 
Let us hear what the man has to say no creation of mortal mind is perfect . 
Perchance he has detected a weakness that it will be well to know at once . 
Come , my good fellow , and what may be the one contingency I have overlooked ? As he spoke Carthoris observed the servant closely for the first time . 
Come , urged the Prince of Helium . 
Speak ! The man hesitated . 
It was evident that he regretted the temerity that had made him the centre of interested observation . 
But at last , seeing no alternative , he spoke . 
It might be tampered with , he said , by an enemy . 
Carthoris drew a small key from his leathern pocket pouch . 
Look at this , he said , handing it to the man . 
If you know aught of locks , you will know that the mechanism which this unlooses is beyond the cunning of a picker of locks . 
It guards the vitals of the instrument from crafty tampering . 
Without it an enemy must half wreck the device to reach its heart , leaving his handiwork apparent to the most casual observer . 
The servant took the key , glanced at it shrewdly , and then as he made to return it to Carthoris dropped it upon the marble flagging . 
Turning to look for it he planted the sole of his sandal full upon the glittering object . 
Then he dropped back to his station behind the nobles and was forgotten . 
A moment later Carthoris had made his adieux to Thuvan Dihn and his nobles , and with lights twinkling had risen into the star shot void of the Martian night . 
Then quickly stooping he snatched the sandal from his right foot , slipping it into his pocket pouch . 
A good rule that , and only relaxed by courtesy in favour of the retinue of visiting royalty from a friendly foreign power . 
Along one broad avenue and then another he strode briskly until he had passed beyond the district of the nobles and had come to the place of shops . 
Here he sought a pretentious building that rose spire like toward the heavens , its outer walls elaborately wrought with delicate carvings and intricate mosaics . 
Here the man sought the embassy of Dusar . 
A clerk arose questioningly as he entered , and at his request to have a word with the minister asked his credentials . 
The visitor slipped a plain metal armlet from above his elbow , and pointing to an inscription upon its inner surface , whispered a word or two to the clerk . 
The latter's eyes went wide , and his attitude turned at once to one of deference . 
He bowed the stranger to a seat , and hastened to an inner room with the armlet in his hand . 
A moment later he reappeared and conducted the caller into the presence of the minister . 
For a long time the two were closeted together , and when at last the giant serving man emerged from the inner office his expression was cast in a smile of sinister satisfaction . 
From the Palace of Peace he hurried directly to the palace of the Dusarian minister . 
That night two swift fliers left the same palace top . 
One sped its rapid course toward Helium the other Thuvia of Ptarth strolled in the gardens of her father's palace , as was her nightly custom before retiring . 
Her silks and furs were drawn about her , for the air of Mars is chill after the sun has taken his quick plunge beneath the planet's western verge . 
She saw it circle lower above the palace until she was positive that it but hovered in preparation for a landing . 
Presently the powerful rays of its searchlight shot downward from the bow . 
They fell upon the landing stage for a brief instant , revealing the figures of the Ptarthian guard , picking into brilliant points of fire the gems upon their gorgeous harnesses . 
For but an instant the searchlight halted upon Thuvia of Ptarth , then it was extinguished as suddenly as it had come to life . 
The flier passed on above her to disappear beyond a grove of lofty skeel trees that grew within the palace grounds . 
The girl stood for some time as it had left her , except that her head was bent and her eyes downcast in thought . 
What mad caprice could have induced him so to transgress the etiquette of nations ? For lesser things great powers had gone to war . 
Thuvia watched it dart swiftly eastward . 
So , too , did other eyes watch . 
Within the dense shadows of the skeel grove , in a wide avenue beneath o'erspreading foliage , a flier hung a dozen feet above the ground . 
From its deck keen eyes watched the far fanning searchlight of the patrol boat . 
No light shone from the enshadowed craft . 
Upon its deck was the silence of the tomb . 
Its crew of a half dozen red warriors watched the lights of the patrol boat diminishing in the distance . 
The intellects of our ancestors are with us to night , said one in a low tone . 
No plan ever carried better , returned another . 
They did precisely as the prince foretold . 
He who had first spoken turned toward the man who squatted before the control board . 
There was no other order given . 
Every man upon the craft had evidently been well schooled in each detail of that night's work . 
Silently the dark hull crept beneath the cathedral arches of the dark and silent grove . 
Thuvia of Ptarth , gazing toward the east , saw the blacker blot against the blackness of the trees as the craft topped the buttressed garden wall . 
She saw the dim bulk incline gently downward toward the scarlet sward of the garden . 
She knew that men came not thus with honourable intent . 
Yet she did not cry aloud to alarm the near by guardsmen , nor did she flee to the safety of the palace . 
They ran forward toward the girl . 
Still she made no sign of alarm , standing as though hypnotized . 
Or could it have been as one who awaited a welcome visitor ? Not until they were quite close to her did she move . 
Then the nearer moon , rising above the surrounding foliage , touched their faces , lighting all with the brilliancy of her silver rays . 
Thuvia of Ptarth saw only strangers warriors in the harness of Dusar . 
Now she took fright , but too late ! Before she could voice but a single cry , rough hands seized her . 
A heavy silken scarf was wound about her head . 
She was lifted in strong arms and borne to the deck of the flier . 
There was the sudden whirl of propellers , the rushing of air against her body , and , from far beneath the shouting and the challenge from the guard . 
Racing toward the south another flier sped toward Helium . 
In its cabin a tall red man bent over the soft sole of an upturned sandal . 
With delicate instruments he measured the faint imprint of a small object which appeared there . 
Upon a pad beside him was the outline of a key , and here he noted the results of his measurements . 
A smile played upon his lips as he completed his task and turned to one who waited at the opposite side of the table . 
The man is a genius , he remarked . 
Only a genius could have evolved such a lock as this is designed to spring . 
Here , take the sketch , Larok , and give all thine own genius full and unfettered freedom in reproducing it in metal . 
Man builds naught , he said , that man may not destroy . 
Then he left the cabin with the sketch . 
Upon its bow was emblazoned the signia of a lesser noble of a far city of the empire of Helium . 
Its leisurely approach and the evident confidence with which it moved across the city aroused no suspicion in the minds of the sleepy guard . 
Their round of duty nearly done , they had little thought beyond the coming of those who were to relieve them . 
There was naught to fear . 
Without haste the nearest air patrol swung sluggishly about and approached the stranger . 
At easy speaking distance the officer upon her deck hailed the incoming craft . 
The cheery Kaor ! and the plausible explanation that the owner had come from distant parts for a few days of pleasure in gay Helium sufficed . 
The air patrol boat sheered off , passing again upon its way . 
The stranger continued toward a public landing stage , where she dropped into the ways and came to rest . 
At about the same time a warrior entered her cabin . 
It is done , Vas Kor , he said , handing a small metal key to the tall noble who had just risen from his sleeping silks and furs . 
Good ! exclaimed the latter . 
You must have worked upon it all during the night , Larok . 
Now fetch me the Heliumetic metal you wrought some days since , commanded Vas Kor . 
Vas Kor breakfasted on board . 
Among them his warrior trappings were no more remarkable than is a pair of trousers upon Broadway . 
All Martian men are warriors , save those physically unable to bear arms . 
The tradesman and his clerk clank with their martial trappings as they pursue their vocations . 
Vas Kor's destination lay in Greater Helium , which lies some seventy five miles across the level plain from Lesser Helium . 
He had landed at the latter city because the air patrol is less suspicious and alert than that above the larger metropolis where lies the palace of the jeddak . 
As he moved with the throng in the parklike canyon of the thoroughfare the life of an awakening Martian city was in evidence about him . 
Houses , raised high upon their slender metal columns for the night were dropping gently toward the ground . 
The pleasant kaor of the Barsoomian greeting fell continually upon the ears of the stranger as friends and neighbours took up the duties of a new day . 
The district in which he had landed was residential a district of merchants of the more prosperous sort . 
Everywhere were evidences of luxury and wealth . 
Slaves appeared upon every housetop with gorgeous silks and costly furs , laying them in the sun for airing . 
Jewel encrusted women lolled even thus early upon the carven balconies before their sleeping apartments . 
Later in the day they would repair to the roofs when the slaves had arranged couches and pitched silken canopies to shade them from the sun . 
Above him raced the long , light passenger fliers , plying , each in its proper plane , between the numerous landing stages for internal passenger traffic . 
Landing stages that tower high into the heavens are for the great international passenger liners . 
Along the close cropped sward which paves the avenue ground fliers were moving in continuous lines in opposite directions . 
From private hangars upon many a roof top fliers were darting into the line of traffic . 
Gay farewells and parting admonitions mingled with the whirring of motors and the subdued noises of the city . 
Yet with all the swift movement and the countless thousands rushing hither and thither , the predominant suggestion was that of luxurious ease and soft noiselessness . 
Martians dislike harsh , discordant clamour . 
The only loud noises they can abide are the martial sounds of war , the clash of arms , the collision of two mighty dreadnoughts of the air . 
To them there is no sweeter music than this . 
At the intersection of two broad avenues Vas Kor descended from the street level to one of the great pneumatic stations of the city . 
Here he paid before a little wicket the fare to his destination with a couple of the dull , oval coins of Helium . 
Beyond the gatekeeper he came to a slowly moving line of what to Earthly eyes would have appeared to be conical nosed , eight foot projectiles for some giant gun . 
In slow procession the things moved in single file along a grooved track . 
A half dozen attendants assisted passengers to enter , or directed these carriers to their proper destination . 
Vas Kor approached one that was empty . 
Upon its nose was a dial and a pointer . 
He set the pointer for a certain station in Greater Helium , raised the arched lid of the thing , stepped in and lay down upon the upholstered bottom . 
An attendant closed the lid , which locked with a little click , and the carrier continued its slow way . 
Presently it switched itself automatically to another track , to enter , a moment later , one of the series of dark mouthed tubes . 
The instant that its entire length was within the black aperture it sprang forward with the speed of a rifle ball . 
Here he sought the street level , stepping immediately into a waiting ground flier . 
He spoke no word to the slave sitting in the driver's seat . 
It was evident that he had been expected , and that the fellow had received his instructions before his coming . 
Scarcely had Vas Kor taken his seat when the flier went quickly into the fast moving procession , turning presently from the broad and crowded avenue into a less congested street . 
Presently it left the thronged district behind to enter a section of small shops , where it stopped before the entrance to one which bore the sign of a dealer in foreign silks . 
Vas Kor entered the low ceiling room . 
A man at the far end motioned him toward an inner apartment , giving no further sign of recognition until he had passed in after the caller and closed the door . 
Then he faced his visitor , saluting deferentially . 
Most noble he commenced , but Vas Kor silenced him with a gesture . 
No formalities , he said . 
We must forget that I am aught other than your slave . 
If all has been as carefully carried out as it has been planned , we have no time to waste . 
Instead we should be upon our way to the slave market . 
Are you ready ? The merchant nodded , and , turning to a great chest , produced the unemblazoned trappings of a slave . 
These Vas Kor immediately donned . 
Then the two passed from the shop through a rear door , traversed a winding alley to an avenue beyond , where they entered a flier which awaited them . 
The crowds were enormous to day , for Carthoris , Prince of Helium , was to be the principal bidder . 
One by one the masters mounted the rostrum beside the slave block upon which stood their chattels . 
Briefly and clearly each recounted the virtues of his particular offering . 
When all were done , the major domo of the Prince of Helium recalled to the block such as had favourably impressed him . 
For such he had made a fair offer . 
There was little haggling as to price , and none at all when Vas Kor was placed upon the block . 
His merchant master accepted the first offer that was made for him , and thus a Dusarian noble entered the household of Carthoris . 
There must be no war between Ptarth and Helium , my son , said John Carter . 
That you are innocent of the charge that has been placed against you by insinuation , we well know but Thuvan Dihn must know it well , too . 
There is but one who may convince him , and that one be you . 
You must hasten at once to the court of Ptarth , and by your presence there as well as by your words assure him that his suspicions are groundless . 
Go ! I know that I do not need to urge upon you the necessity for haste . 
Carthoris left the council chamber , and hastened to his palace . 
Here slaves were busy in a moment setting things to rights for the departure of their master . 
Several worked about the swift flier that would bear the Prince of Helium rapidly toward Ptarth . 
At last all was done . 
But two armed slaves remained on guard . 
The setting sun hung low above the horizon . 
In a moment darkness would envelop all . 
One of the guardsmen , a giant of a fellow across whose right cheek there ran a thin scar from temple to mouth , approached his companion . 
His gaze was directed beyond and above his comrade . 
When he had come quite close he spoke . 
What strange craft is that ? he asked . 
The other turned about quickly to gaze heavenward . 
Scarce was his back turned toward the giant than the short sword of the latter was plunged beneath his left shoulder blade , straight through his heart . 
Voiceless , the soldier sank in his tracks stone dead . 
Quickly the murderer dragged the corpse into the black shadows within the hangar . 
Then he returned to the flier . 
Drawing a cunningly wrought key from his pocket pouch , he removed the cover of the right hand dial of the controlling destination compass . 
For a moment he studied the construction of the mechanism beneath . 
Then he returned the dial to its place , set the pointer , and removed it again to note the resultant change in the position of the parts affected by the act . 
A smile crossed his lips . 
In other words , the eastern hemisphere dial was useless . 
Now he turned his attention to the western dial . 
This he set upon a certain point . 
Afterward he removed the cover of this dial also , and with keen tool cut the steel finger from the under side of the pointer . 
As quickly as possible he replaced the second dial cover , and resumed his place on guard . 
Presently came Carthoris , accompanied by but a handful of his gentlemen . 
He cast but a casual glance upon the single slave who stood guard . 
The fellow's thin , cruel lips , and the sword cut that ran from temple to mouth aroused the suggestion of an unpleasant memory within him . 
Scarce had the flier found its speed ere the man , wrapping his sleeping silks and furs about him , stretched at full length upon the narrow deck to sleep . 
But sleep did not come at once at his bidding . 
Instead , his thoughts ran riot in his brain , driving sleep away . 
Now he saw that her reply was open to more than a single construction . 
It might , of course , mean that she did not love Kulan Tith and so , by inference , be taken to mean that she loved another . 
No , the fact was , she did not love him . 
She had not been abducted she had fled willingly with her lover . 
With such pleasant thoughts filling him alternately with despair and rage , Carthoris at last dropped into the sleep of utter mental exhaustion . 
The breaking of the sudden dawn found him still asleep . 
His flier was rushing swiftly above a barren , ochre plain the world old bottom of a long dead Martian sea . 
In the distance rose low hills . 
Toward these the craft was headed . 
Closer came the flier , but now its speed was diminishing yet this was not Ptarth . 
Above the central plaza it stopped , slowly settling Marsward . 
Within a hundred yards of the ground it came to rest , floating gently in the light air , and at the same instant an alarm sounded at the sleeper's ear . 
Carthoris sprang to his feet . 
Below him he looked to see the teeming metropolis of Ptarth . 
Beside him , already , there should have been an air patrol . 
He gazed about in bewildered astonishment . 
There indeed was a great city , but it was not Ptarth . 
No multitudes surged through its broad avenues . 
No signs of life broke the dead monotony of its deserted roof tops . 
No gorgeous silks , no priceless furs lent life and colour to the cold marble and the gleaming ersite . 
No patrol boat lay ready with its familiar challenge . 
Silent and empty lay the great city empty and silent the surrounding air . 
What had happened ? Carthoris examined the dial of his compass . 
The pointer was set upon Ptarth . 
Could the creature of his genius have thus betrayed him ? He would not believe it . 
Quickly he unlocked the cover , turning it back upon its hinge . 
Who could have done the thing and why ? Carthoris could not hazard even a faint guess . 
But the thing now was to learn in what portion of the world he was , and then take up his interrupted journey once more . 
Beneath the second dial he found the steel pin severed as in the other , but the controlling mechanism had first been set for a point upon the western hemisphere . 
Carthoris waited to see no more . 
Reaching for the control board , he sent his craft racing plummet like toward the ground . 
The green man was hurrying his captive toward a huge thoat that browsed upon the ochre vegetation of the once scarlet gorgeous plaza . 
At the same instant a dozen red warriors leaped from the entrance of a nearby ersite palace , pursuing the abductor with naked swords and shouts of rageful warning . 
No longer did their trappings gleam with the metal of Dusar , but instead there was emblazoned there the insignia of the Prince of Helium . 
The girl felt renewed hope , for she could not believe that in the heart of Carthoris could lie intent to harm her . 
She spoke to the warrior squatting before the control board . 
Last night you wore the trappings of a Dusarian , she said . 
Now your metal is that of Helium . 
What means it ? The man looked at her with a grin . 
The Prince of Helium is no fool , he said . 
Just then an officer emerged from the tiny cabin . 
He reprimanded the warrior for conversing with the prisoner , nor would he himself reply to any of her inquiries . 
No harm was offered her during the journey , and so they came at last to their destination with the girl no wiser as to her abductors or their purpose than at first . 
Thuvia of Ptarth was no stranger to such places . 
Why , then , should they be bringing her to such a place ? There was but a single answer . 
Such was the nature of their work that they must needs seek the seclusion that a dead city afforded . 
The girl trembled at thought of her plight . 
For two days her captors kept her within a huge palace that even in decay reflected the splendour of the age which its youth had known . 
Just before dawn on the third day she had been aroused by the voices of two of her abductors . 
He should be here by dawn , one was saying . 
Have her in readiness upon the plaza else he will never land . 
The moment he finds that he is in a strange country he will turn about methinks the prince's plan is weak in this one spot . 
There was no other way , replied the other . 
It is wondrous work to get them both here at all , and even if we do not succeed in luring him to the ground , we shall have accomplished much . 
Just then the speaker caught the eyes of Thuvia upon him , revealed by the quick moving patch of light cast by Thuria in her mad race through the heavens . 
With a quick sign to the other , he ceased speaking , and advancing toward the girl , motioned her to rise . 
Then he led her out into the night toward the centre of the great plaza . 
Stand here , he commanded , until we come for you . 
We shall be watching , and should you attempt to escape it will go ill with you much worse than death . 
Such are the prince's orders . 
To Thuvia , however , the real danger of attack by one of these ferocious , manlike beasts was quite sufficient . 
What was that ? Surely she could not be mistaken . 
The man was a splendid specimen of his race . 
Fully fifteen feet towered his great height from sole to pate . 
As the rider neared the plaza , he reined suddenly in . 
His slender , tubular ears pointed rigidly forward . 
An unwonted sound had reached them . 
Voices ! And where there were voices , outside of Torquas , there , too , were enemies . 
All the world of wide Barsoom contained naught but enemies for the fierce Torquasians . 
Keeping in the shadows of the great monoliths that line the Avenue of Quays of sleeping Aaanthor , he approached the plaza . 
In the centre of the plaza Thar Ban saw the figure of a red woman . 
A red warrior was conversing with her . 
Now the man turned and retraced his steps toward the palace at the opposite side of the plaza . 
Thar Ban watched until he had disappeared within the yawning portal . 
Here was a captive worth having ! Seldom did a female of their hereditary enemies fall to the lot of a green man . 
Thar Ban licked his thin lips . 
Thuvia of Ptarth watched the shadow behind the monolith at the opening to the avenue opposite her . 
She hoped that it might be but the figment of an overwrought imagination . 
But no ! Now , clearly and distinctly , she saw it move . 
It came from behind the screening shelter of the ersite shaft . 
The sudden light of the rising sun fell upon it . 
The THING was a huge green warrior ! Swiftly it sprang toward her . 
Now from behind her came the shouts of her red abductors . 
They were racing madly after him who dared to steal what they already had stolen . 
As Thar Ban reached the side of his mount he snatched his long radium rifle from its boot , and , wheeling , poured three shots into the oncoming red men . 
Such is the uncanny marksmanship of these Martian savages that three red warriors dropped in their tracks as three projectiles exploded in their vitals . 
The others halted , nor did they dare return the fire for fear of wounding the girl . 
They had lost the girl . 
That would be a difficult thing to explain to Astok but some leniency might be expected could they carry the Prince of Helium to their master instead . 
Now the two remaining Dusarians rushed simultaneously upon the Heliumite . 
Thrice was Carthoris touched , so that the red blood ran down his face , blinding him and dyeing his broad chest . 
With his free hand he wiped the gore from his eyes , and with the fighting smile of his father touching his lips , leaped upon his antagonists with renewed fury . 
Carthoris made no step to pursue . 
Turning quickly toward his flier , he was soon rising from the plaza in pursuit of Thar Ban . 
The projectile grazed the flier's side , the opaque coating breaking sufficiently to permit daylight to strike in upon the powder phial within the bullet's nose . 
There was a sharp explosion . 
Carthoris felt his craft reel drunkenly beneath him , and the engine stopped . 
The momentum the air boat had gained carried her on over the city toward the sea bottom beyond . 
The red warrior in the plaza fired several more shots , none of which scored . 
Then a lofty minaret shut the drifting quarry from his view . 
In the distance before him Carthoris could see the green warrior bearing Thuvia of Ptarth away upon his mighty thoat . 
The direction of his flight was toward the north west of Aaanthor , where lay a mountainous country little known to red men . 
The Heliumite now gave his attention to his injured craft . 
A close examination revealed the face that one of the buoyancy tanks had been punctured , but the engine itself was uninjured . 
But even this meagre satisfaction was soon to be denied him , for presently the flier commenced to sag toward the port and by the bow . 
The damage to the buoyancy tanks had evidently been more grievous than he had at first believed . 
All that night he forged ahead until , with the dawning of a new day , he entered the low foothills that guard the approach to the fastness of the mountains of Torquas . 
Rugged , granitic walls towered before him . 
Nowhere could he discern an opening through the formidable barrier yet somewhere into this inhospitable world of stone the green warrior had borne the woman of the red man's heart's desire . 
Yet , search as he would , the baffling mystery of the trail seemed likely to remain for ever unsolved . 
Crouching quickly behind a large rock , Carthoris watched the thing before him . 
It was a huge banth , one of those savage Barsoomian lions that roam the desolate hills of the dying planet . 
The creature's nose was close to the ground . 
It was evident that he was following the spoor of meat by scent . 
As Carthoris watched him , a great hope leaped into the man's heart . 
Here , possibly , might lie the solution to the mystery he had been endeavouring to solve . 
This hungry carnivore , keen always for the flesh of man , might even now be trailing the two whom Carthoris sought . 
Cautiously the youth crept out upon the trail of the man eater . 
Along the foot of the perpendicular cliff the creature moved , sniffing at the invisible spoor , and now and then emitting the low moan of the hunting banth . 
Carthoris had followed the creature for but a few minutes when it disappeared as suddenly and mysteriously as though dissolved into thin air . 
The man leaped to his feet . 
Not again was he to be cheated as the man had cheated him . 
He sprang forward at a reckless pace to the spot at which he last had seen the great , skulking brute . 
Before him loomed the sheer cliff , its face unbroken by any aperture into which the huge banth might have wormed its great carcass . 
Beside him was a small , flat boulder , not larger than the deck of a ten man flier , nor standing to a greater height than twice his own stature . 
Perhaps the banth was in hiding behind this ? The brute might have discovered the man upon his trail , and even now be lying in wait for his easy prey . 
Cautiously , with drawn long sword , Carthoris crept around the corner of the rock . 
There was no banth there , but something which surprised him infinitely more than would the presence of twenty banths . 
Before him yawned the mouth of a dark cave leading downward into the ground . 
Through this the banth must have disappeared . 
Not an instant did he hesitate , nor yet did he advance rashly but with ready sword and cautious steps , for the way was dark , he stole on . 
As he advanced , the obscurity became impenetrable blackness . 
Before him he could hear the occasional low moans of the banth , and presently from behind came a similar uncanny note . 
Another banth had entered the passageway on HIS trail ! His position was anything but pleasant . 
No other sounds came to his ears than the dismal , bloodthirsty moanings of the beast ahead and the beast behind . 
Now it was running almost level , and presently he noted a gradual ascent . 
The beast behind him was gaining upon him , crowding him perilously close upon the heels of the beast in front . 
Presently he should have to do battle with one , or both . 
More firmly he gripped his weapon . 
Now he could hear the breathing of the banth at his heels . 
Not for much longer could he delay the encounter . 
The sun had been setting as he entered the tunnel , and the way had been sufficiently long to assure him that darkness now reigned upon the world without . 
Blazing out of the darkness , seemingly not ten paces behind , glared two flaming points of fire . 
As the savage eyes met his , the beast emitted a frightful roar and then he charged . 
With a hideous scream of pain and rage , the wounded banth hurtled , clawing , past him . 
Then it turned to charge once more but this time Carthoris saw but a single gleaming point of fiery hate directed upon him . 
Again the needle point met its flashing target . 
Again the horrid cry of the stricken beast reverberated through the rocky tunnel , shocking in its torture laden shrillness , deafening in its terrific volume . 
But now , as it turned to charge again , the man had no guide whereby to direct his point . 
He heard the scraping of the padded feet upon the rocky floor . 
He knew the thing was charging down upon him once again , but he could see nothing . 
Yet , if he could not see his antagonist , neither could his antagonist now see him . 
Leaping , as he thought , to the exact centre of the tunnel , he held his sword point ready on a line with the beast's chest . 
It was all that he could do , hoping that chance might send the point into the savage heart as he went down beneath the great body . 
So quickly was the thing over that Carthoris could scarce believe his senses as the mighty body rushed madly past him . 
Either he had not placed himself in the centre of the tunnel , or else the blinded banth had erred in its calculations . 
However , the huge body missed him by a foot , and the creature continued on down the tunnel as though in pursuit of the prey that had eluded him . 
Carthoris , too , followed the same direction , nor was it long before his heart was gladdened by the sight of the moonlit exit from the long , dark passage . 
Before him lay a deep hollow , entirely surrounded by gigantic cliffs . 
The surface of the valley was dotted with enormous trees , a strange sight so far from a Martian waterway . 
The ground itself was clothed in brilliant scarlet sward , picked out with innumerable patches of gorgeous wild flowers . 
Beneath the glorious effulgence of the two moons the scene was one of indescribable loveliness , tinged with the weirdness of strange enchantment . 
For only an instant , however , did his gaze rest upon the natural beauties outspread before him . 
Almost immediately they were riveted upon the figure of a great banth standing across the carcass of a new killed thoat . 
But where were the rider and his prisoner ? The Prince of Helium shuddered as he thought upon the probability of the fate that had overtaken them . 
Human flesh is the food most craved by the fierce Barsoomian lion , whose great carcass and giant thews require enormous quantities of meat to sustain them . 
Two human bodies would have but whetted the creature's appetite , and that he had killed and eaten the green man and the red girl seemed only too likely to Carthoris . 
He had left the carcass of the mighty thoat to be devoured after having consumed the more tooth some portion of his banquet . 
No longer were its movements erratic . 
When the charging banth was twenty paces from the dead thoat the killer gave vent to its hideous challenge , and with a mighty spring leaped forward to meet it . 
The battle that ensued awed even the warlike Barsoomian . 
As he picked it up his first glance showed him that it was a woman's hair ornament , and emblazoned upon it was the insignia of the royal house of Ptarth . 
But , sinister discovery , blood , still wet , splotched the magnificent jewels of the setting . 
Carthoris half choked as the dire possibilities which the thing suggested presented themselves to his imagination . 
Yet he could not , would not believe it . 
It was impossible that that radiant creature could have met so hideous an end . 
It was incredible that the glorious Thuvia should ever cease to be . 
Then he proceeded upon his way into the heart of the unknown valley . 
For the most part the giant trees shut off his view to any but the most limited distances . 
For half the night he continued his search , until presently he was brought to a sudden halt by the distant sound of squealing thoats . 
The encircling camp of green warriors lay about five hundred yards from the city's walls . 
That they were beings like himself he was sure , though they were at too great distance from him for him to be positive that they were red men . 
Almost immediately after sunrise the green warriors commenced firing upon the little figures upon the wall . 
Here seemed to be the principal force of the attacking horde . 
Here a great platform had been erected whereon Carthoris could see squatting a huge green warrior , surrounded by others of his kind . 
As the Heliumite watched he saw another green warrior push his way forward toward the rostrum . 
Beside him he dragged a captive , and as the surrounding warriors parted to let the two pass , Carthoris caught a fleeting glimpse of the prisoner . 
His heart leaped in rejoicing . 
He saw her dragged to the foot of the rostrum . 
He saw Hortan Gur address her . 
Then the son of John Carter , Jeddak of Jeddaks , Warlord of Barsoom , went mad . 
The old , blood red haze through which his sire had glared at countless foes , floated before his eyes . 
His half Earthly muscles , responding quickly to his will , sent him in enormous leaps and bounds toward the green monster that had struck the woman he loved . 
The Torquasians were not looking in the direction of the forest . 
Carthoris had covered about half the distance between the forest and the green warriors , when a new factor succeeded in still further directing the attention of the latter from him . 
Upon a high tower within the beleaguered city a man appeared . 
It was but the first . 
From every point rose similar savage cries , until the world seemed to tremble to their reverberations . 
The green warriors looked nervously this way and that . 
They knew not fear , as Earth men may know it but in the face of the unusual their wonted self assurance deserted them . 
And then the great gate in the city wall opposite the platform of Hortan Gur swung suddenly wide . 
Then he was in the midst of the astonished Torquasians . 
Even to the famous fighting smile of the Virginian was the resemblance true . 
And the sword arm ! Ah , the subtleness of it , and the speed ! All about was turmoil and confusion . 
Green warriors were leaping to the backs of their restive , squealing thoats . 
Calots were growling out their savage gutturals , whining to be at the throats of the oncoming foemen . 
Carthoris sought both to defend Thuvia of Ptarth and reach the side of the hideous Hortan Gur that he might avenge the blow the creature had struck the girl . 
As Carthoris leaped to the rostrum he drew Thuvia up beside him , and then he turned upon the departing jeddak with an angry challenge and a sword thrust . 
The other warriors quickly followed their jeddak , leaving Thuvia and Carthoris alone upon the platform . 
Between them and the city raged a terrific battle . 
But if the warriors themselves were outclassed , not so their savage companions , the fierce banths . 
To Carthoris the strangest part of the battle had been the terrific toll taken by the bowmen with their relatively puny weapons . 
Nowhere that he could see was there a single wounded green man , but the corpses of their dead lay thick upon the field of battle . 
Death seemed to follow instantly the slightest pinprick of a bowman's arrow , nor apparently did one ever miss its goal . 
There could be but one explanation the missiles were poison tipped . 
Presently the sounds of conflict died in the distant forest . 
Quiet reigned , broken only by the growling of the devouring banths . 
Carthoris turned toward Thuvia of Ptarth . 
As yet neither had spoken . 
Where are we , Thuvia ? he asked . 
The girl looked at him questioningly . 
His very presence had seemed to proclaim a guilty knowledge of her abduction . 
How else might he have known the destination of the flier that brought her ! Who should know better than the Prince of Helium ? she asked in return . 
Before I left Helium some one tampered with my compass , so that it bore me to Aaanthor instead of to Ptarth . 
You believe me ? But the warriors who stole me from the garden ! she exclaimed . 
After we arrived at Aaanthor they wore the metal of the Prince of Helium . 
When they took me they were trapped in Dusarian harness . 
There seemed but a single explanation . 
You believe that I did this thing , Thuvia ? he asked . 
Ah , Carthoris , she replied sadly , I did not wish to believe it but when everything pointed to you even then I would not believe it . 
I did not do it , Thuvia , he said . 
But let me be entirely honest with you . 
Thuvia of Ptarth looked into his face for several moments . 
Her breast was rising and falling as though to some resistless emotion . 
She half took a step toward him . 
Her lips parted as though to speak swiftly and impetuously . 
And then she conquered whatever had moved her . 
The future acts of the Prince of Helium , she said coldly , must constitute the proof of his past honesty of purpose . 
Carthoris was hurt by the girl's tone , as much as by the doubt as to his integrity which her words implied . 
The Prince of Helium shrugged his broad shoulders . 
The girl noted it , and the little smile that touched his lips , so that it became her turn to be hurt . 
Of course she had not meant to hurt him . 
He might have known that after what he had said she could not do anything to encourage him ! But he need not have made his indifference quite so palpable . 
The men of Helium were noted for their gallantry not for boorishness . 
Possibly it was the Earth blood that flowed in his veins . 
Where are we ? he asked . 
Nor I , replied the girl . 
When the bowmen return we shall doubtless learn all that there is to know , said Carthoris . 
Let us hope that they prove friendly . 
From a great distance came the hideous cries of banths , and an occasional shot . 
It is strange that they do not return , said the girl . 
One would expect to see the wounded limping or being carried back to the city , replied Carthoris , with a puzzled frown . 
There were the banths , still growling about their hideous feast . 
Carthoris looked at Thuvia in astonishment . 
Then he pointed toward the field . 
Where are they ? he whispered . 
WHAT HAS BECOME OF THEIR DEAD AND WOUNDED ? CHAPTER VI THE JEDDAK OF LOTHAR The girl looked her incredulity . 
They lay in piles , she murmured . 
There were thousands of them but a minute ago . 
And now , continued Carthoris , there remain but the banths and the carcasses of the green men . 
They must have sent forth and carried the dead bowmen away while we were talking , said the girl . 
It is impossible ! replied Carthoris . 
Thousands of dead lay there upon the field but a moment since . 
It would have required many hours to have removed them . 
I had hoped , said Thuvia , that we might find an asylum with these fair skinned people . 
Notwithstanding their valour upon the field of battle , they did not strike me as a ferocious or warlike people . 
I had been about to suggest that we seek entrance to the city , but now I scarce know if I care to venture among people whose dead vanish into thin air . 
Let us chance it , replied Carthoris . 
We can be no worse off within their walls than without . 
Here we may fall prey to the banths or the no less fierce Torquasians . 
There , at least , we shall find beings moulded after our own images . 
All that causes me to hesitate , he added , is the danger of taking you past so many banths . 
A single sword would scarce prevail were even a couple of them to charge simultaneously . 
Do not fear on that score , replied the girl , smiling . 
The banths will not harm us . 
As she spoke she descended from the platform , and with Carthoris at her side stepped fearlessly out upon the bloody field in the direction of the walled city of mystery . 
They had advanced but a short distance when a banth , looking up from its gory feast , descried them . 
With an angry roar the beast walked quickly in their direction , and at the sound of its voice a score of others followed its example . 
Carthoris drew his long sword . 
The girl stole a quick glance at his face . 
You may return your sword , she said . 
I told you that the banths would not harm us . 
Look ! and as she spoke she stepped quickly toward the nearest animal . 
Carthoris would have leaped after her to protect her , but with a gesture she motioned him back . 
He heard her calling to the banths in a low , singsong voice that was half purr . 
Instantly the great heads went up and all the wicked eyes were riveted upon the figure of the girl . 
Then , stealthily , they commenced moving toward her . 
She had stopped now and was standing waiting them . 
One , closer to her than the others , hesitated . 
She spoke to him imperiously , as a master might speak to a refractory hound . 
Turning she led them to where Carthoris stood . 
They growled a little as they neared the man , but a few sharp words of command put them in their places . 
How do you do it ? exclaimed Carthoris . 
Your father once asked me that same question in the galleries of the Golden Cliffs within the Otz Mountains , beneath the temples of the therns . 
I could not answer him , nor can I answer you . 
They come at my call and do my bidding , even as the faithful Woola does the bidding of your mighty sire . 
With a word the girl dispersed the fierce pack . 
Roaring , they returned to their interrupted feast , while Carthoris and Thuvia passed among them toward the walled city . 
As they advanced the man looked with wonder upon the dead bodies of those of the green men that had not been devoured or mauled by the banths . 
He called the girl's attention to them . 
No arrows protruded from the great carcasses . 
Nowhere upon any of them was the sign of mortal wound , nor even slightest scratch or abrasion . 
Before the bowmen's dead had disappeared the corpses of the Torquasians had bristled with the deadly arrows of their foes . 
No longer was sign of life visible upon wall or roof top . 
All was quiet brooding , ominous quiet . 
Yet he was sure that eyes watched them from somewhere behind that blank wall . 
She was advancing with wide eyes fixed upon the city gate . 
He looked in the direction of her gaze , but saw nothing . 
His gaze upon her seemed to arouse her as from a lethargy . 
He guessed that something within her that was beyond her conscious control was appealing to him for protection . 
He threw an arm about her , and thus they crossed the field . 
She did not draw away from him . 
It is doubtful that she realized that his arm was there , so engrossed was she in the mystery of the strange city before them . 
They stopped before the gate . 
It was a mighty thing . 
From its construction Carthoris could but dimly speculate upon its unthinkable antiquity . 
Even such world old cities as ancient Aaanthor were as yet undreamed of when the races lived that built such gates as these . 
As he stood speculating upon the identity of this forgotten city , a voice spoke to them from above . 
There , leaning over the edge of the high wall , was a man . 
His hair was auburn , his skin fair fairer even than that of John Carter , the Virginian . 
His forehead was high , his eyes large and intelligent . 
The language that he used was intelligible to the two below , yet there was a marked difference between it and their Barsoomian tongue . 
Who are you ? he asked . 
And what do you here before the gate of Lothar ? We are friends , replied Carthoris . 
This be the princess , Thuvia of Ptarth , who was captured by the Torquasian horde . 
Ptarth' ? repeated the man . 
Helium' ? He shook his head . 
I never have heard of these places , nor did I know that there dwelt upon Barsoom a race of thy strange colour . 
Where may these cities lie , of which you speak ? From our loftiest tower we have never seen another city than Lothar . 
Carthoris pointed toward the north east . 
In that direction lie Helium and Ptarth , he said . 
Helium is over eight thousand haads from Lothar , while Ptarth lies nine thousand five hundred haads north east of Helium . 
On Barsoom the AD is the basis of linear measurement . 
It is the equivalent of an Earthly foot , measuring about . 
As has been my custom in the past , I have generally translated Barsoomian symbols of time , distance , etc . 
, into their Earthly equivalent , as being more easily understood by Earth readers . 
A haad , or Barsoomian mile , contains about , Earth feet . 
A karad is one degree . 
Still the man shook his head . 
I know of nothing beyond the Lotharian hills , he said . 
Naught may live there beside the hideous green hordes of Torquas . 
They have conquered all Barsoom except this single valley and the city of Lothar . 
Here we have defied them for countless ages , though periodically they renew their attempts to destroy us . 
All about them were evidences of fabulous wealth . 
He with whom they had conversed across the wall was in the avenue to receive them . 
About him were a hundred or more men of the same race . 
All were clothed in flowing robes and all were beardless . 
Their attitude was more of fearful suspicion than antagonism . 
They followed the new comers with their eyes but spoke no word to them . 
He wondered if all the fighting men had sallied forth in one supreme effort to rout the foe , leaving the city all unguarded . 
No creature other than a score or so of our sacred banths has left Lothar to day , he replied . 
But the soldiers the bowmen ! exclaimed Carthoris . 
We saw thousands emerge from this very gate , overwhelming the hordes of Torquas and putting them to rout with their deadly arrows and their fierce banths . 
Still the man smiled his knowing smile . 
Look ! he cried , and pointed down a broad avenue before him . 
Carthoris and Thuvia followed the direction indicated , and there , marching bravely in the sunlight , they saw advancing toward them a great army of bowmen . 
They have returned through another gate , or perchance these be the troops that remained to defend the city ? Again the fellow smiled his uncanny smile . 
There are no soldiers in Lothar , he said . 
And those who marched out upon the hordes to day ? whispered Carthoris . 
They , too , were unreal ? The man nodded . 
But their arrows slew the green warriors , insisted Thuvia . 
Let us go before Tario , replied the Lotharian . 
He will tell you that which he deems it best you know . 
I might tell you too much . 
Who is Tario ? asked Carthoris . 
Jeddak of Lothar , replied the guide , leading them up the broad avenue down which they had but a moment since seen the phantom army marching . 
For half an hour they walked along lovely avenues between the most gorgeous buildings that the two had ever seen . 
Few people were in evidence . 
Carthoris could not but note the deserted appearance of the mighty city . 
At last they came to the royal palace . 
Carthoris saw it from a distance , and guessing the nature of the magnificent pile wondered that even here there should be so little sign of activity and life . 
Here , said their guide , is the palace of Tario . 
As he spoke Carthoris again let his gaze rest upon the wondrous palace . 
With a startled exclamation he rubbed his eyes and looked again . 
No ! He could not be mistaken . 
Before the massive gate stood a score of sentries . 
Within , the avenue leading to the main building was lined on either side by ranks of bowmen . 
The gardens were dotted with officers and soldiers moving quickly to and fro , as though bent upon the duties of the minute . 
What manner of people were these who could conjure an army out of thin air ? He glanced toward Thuvia . 
She , too , evidently had witnessed the transformation . 
With a little shudder she pressed more closely toward him . 
What do you make of it ? she whispered . 
I cannot account for it , replied Carthoris , unless we have gone mad . 
Carthoris turned quickly toward the Lotharian . 
The fellow was smiling broadly . 
I thought that you just said that there were no soldiers in Lothar , said the Heliumite , with a gesture toward the guardsmen . 
What are these ? Ask Tario , replied the other . 
We shall soon be before him . 
Nor was it long before they entered a lofty chamber at one end of which a man reclined upon a rich couch that stood upon a high dais . 
As the trio approached , the man turned dreamy eyes sleepily upon them . 
Twenty feet from the dais their conductor halted , and , whispering to Thuvia and Carthoris to follow his example , threw himself headlong to the floor . 
Thuvia glanced quickly toward Carthoris . 
He was standing erect , with high held head and arms folded across his broad chest . 
A haughty smile curved his lips . 
The man upon the dais was eyeing him intently , and Carthoris of Helium was looking straight in the other's face . 
Who be these , Jav ? asked the man of him who crawled upon his belly along the floor . 
O Tario , most glorious Jeddak , replied Jav , these be strangers who came with the hordes of Torquas to our gates , saying that they were prisoners of the green men . 
They tell strange tales of cities far beyond Lothar . 
Arise , Jav , commanded Tario , and ask these two why they show not to Tario the respect that is his due . 
Jav arose and faced the strangers . 
At sight of their erect positions his face went livid . 
From whence had they sprung ? Both Carthoris and Thuvia looked their astonishment . 
Now the former's sword leaped from its scabbard , and at the same instant the bowmen drew back their slim shafts . 
Tario had half raised himself upon one elbow . 
For the first time he saw the full figure of Thuvia , who had been concealed behind the person of Carthoris . 
Enough ! cried the jeddak , raising a protesting hand , but at that very instant the sword of the Heliumite cut viciously at its nearest antagonist . 
His steel had cut but empty air his antagonist had vanished there were no bowmen in the room ! It is evident that these are strangers , said Tario to Jav . 
Let us first determine that they knowingly affronted us before we take measures for punishment . 
Then he turned to Carthoris , but ever his gaze wandered to the perfect lines of Thuvia's glorious figure , which the harness of a Barsoomian princess accentuated rather than concealed . 
Who are you , he asked , who knows not the etiquette of the court of the last of jeddaks ? I am Carthoris , Prince of Helium , replied the Heliumite . 
And this is Thuvia , Princess of Ptarth . 
In the courts of our fathers men do not prostrate themselves before royalty . 
Not since the First Born tore their immortal goddess limb from limb have men crawled upon their bellies to any throne upon Barsoom . 
Now think you that the daughter of one mighty jeddak and the son of another would so humiliate themselves ? Tario looked at Carthoris for a long time . 
There is no other jeddak upon Barsoom than Tario , he said . 
There is no other race than that of Lothar , unless the hordes of Torquas may be dignified by such an appellation . 
Lotharians are white your skins are red . 
There are no women left upon Barsoom . 
Your companion is a woman . 
He half rose from the couch , leaning far forward and pointing an accusing finger at Carthoris . 
You are a lie ! he shrieked . 
You are both lies , and you dare to come before Tario , last and mightiest of the jeddaks of Barsoom , and assert your reality . 
Some one shall pay well for this , Jav , and unless I mistake it is yourself who has dared thus flippantly to trifle with the good nature of your jeddak . 
We shall see if both be lies . 
And later , Jav , you shall suffer for your temerity . 
There be few of us left , but Komal must be fed . 
Go ! Carthoris could see that Jav trembled as he prostrated himself once more before his ruler , and then , rising , turned toward the Prince of Helium . 
And leave the Princess of Ptarth here alone ? cried Carthoris . 
Jav brushed closely past him , whispering Follow me he cannot harm her , except to kill and that he can do whether you remain or not . 
We had best go now trust me . 
For answer she turned her back full upon him , but not without first throwing him such a look of contempt that brought the scarlet to his cheek . 
Then he hesitated , but Jav seized him by the wrist . 
Or he will have the bowmen upon you , and this time there will be no escape . 
Did you not see how futile is your steel against thin air ! Carthoris turned unwillingly to follow . 
As the two left the room he turned to his companion . 
So would you fall before them , and without one single chance for self defence or revenge . 
As they talked Jav led Carthoris to a small room in one of the numerous towers of the palace . 
Here were couches , and Jav bid the Heliumite be seated . 
For several minutes the Lotharian eyed his prisoner , for such Carthoris now realized himself to be . 
I am half convinced that you are real , he said at last . 
Of course I am real , he said . 
Carthoris showed by the expression of his face his puzzlement at each new reference to the mysterious bowmen the vanishing soldiery of Lothar . 
What , then , may they be ? he asked . 
You really do not know ? asked Jav . 
Carthoris shook his head negatively . 
I can almost believe that you have told us the truth and that you are really from another part of Barsoom , or from another world . 
We of the red race are all soldiers , but we have no bowmen to defend us , such as yours . 
You go out and get killed by your enemies ! cried Jav incredulously . 
How do the Lotharians ? You have seen , replied the other . 
We send out our deathless archers deathless because they are lifeless , existing only in the imaginations of our enemies . 
It is really our giant minds that defend us , sending out legions of imaginary warriors to materialize before the mind's eye of the foe . 
They see them they see their bows drawn back they see their slender arrows speed with unerring precision toward their hearts . 
And they die killed by the power of suggestion . 
But the archers that are slain ? exclaimed Carthoris . 
You call them deathless , and yet I saw their dead bodies piled high upon the battlefield . 
How may that be ? It is but to lend reality to the scene , replied Jav . 
We picture many of our own defenders killed that the Torquasians may not guess that there are really no flesh and blood creatures opposing them . 
And the banths ? questioned Carthoris . 
They , too , were but creatures of suggestion ? Some of them were real , replied Jav . 
Those that accompanied the archers in pursuit of the Torquasians were unreal . 
Like the archers , they never returned , but , having served their purpose , vanished with the bowmen when the rout of the enemy was assured . 
Those that remained about the field were real . 
Those we loosed as scavengers to devour the bodies of the dead of Torquas . 
This thing is demanded by the realists among us . 
The etherealists maintain that there is no such thing as matter that all is mind . 
They say that none of us exists , except in the imagination of his fellows , other than as an intangible , invisible mentality . 
You , then , do not hold Tario's beliefs ? asked Carthoris . 
In part only , replied the Lotharian . 
I believe , in fact I know , that there are some truly ethereal creatures . 
Tario is one , I am convinced . 
He has no existence except in the imaginations of his people . 
Of course , it is the contention of all us realists that all etherealists are but figments of the imagination . 
They contend that no food is necessary , nor do they eat but any one of the most rudimentary intelligence must realize that food is a necessity to creatures having actual existence . 
Yes , agreed Carthoris , not having eaten to day I can readily agree with you . 
Ah , pardon me , exclaimed Jav . 
Pray be seated and satisfy your hunger , and with a wave of his hand he indicated a bountifully laden table that had not been there an instant before he spoke . 
Of that Carthoris was positive , for he had searched the room diligently with his eyes several times . 
It is well , continued Jav , that you did not fall into the hands of an etherealist . 
Then , indeed , would you have gone hungry . 
But , exclaimed Carthoris , this is not real food it was not here an instant since , and real food does not materialize out of thin air . 
There is no real food or water in Lothar , he said nor has there been for countless ages . 
Upon such as you now see before you have we existed since the dawn of history . 
Upon such , then , may you exist . 
But I thought you were a realist , exclaimed Carthoris . 
Indeed , cried Jav , what more realistic than this bounteous feast ? It is just here that we differ most from the etherealists . 
They claim that it is unnecessary to imagine food but we have found that for the maintenance of life we must thrice daily sit down to hearty meals . 
The food that one eats is supposed to undergo certain chemical changes during the process of digestion and assimilation , the result , of course , being the rebuilding of wasted tissue . 
Now we all know that mind is all , though we may differ in the interpretation of its various manifestations . 
Tario maintains that there is no such thing as substance , all being created from the substanceless matter of the brain . 
We realists , however , know better . 
We know that mind has the power to maintain substance even though it may not be able to create substance the latter is still an open question . 
And so we know that in order to maintain our physical bodies we must cause all our organs properly to function . 
This we accomplish by materializing food thoughts , and by partaking of the food thus created . 
We chew , we swallow , we digest . 
All our organs function precisely as if we had partaken of material food . 
And what is the result ? What must be the result ? The chemical changes take place through both direct and indirect suggestion , and we live and thrive . 
Carthoris eyed the food before him . 
He lifted a morsel to his lips . 
Yes , even his palate was deceived . 
Jav watched him , smiling , as he ate . 
Is it not entirely satisfying ? he asked . 
I must admit that it is , replied Carthoris . 
But tell me , how does Tario live , and the other etherealists who maintain that food is unnecessary ? Jav scratched his head . 
That is a question we often discuss , he replied . 
It is the strongest evidence we have of the non existence of the etherealists but who may know other than Komal ? Who is Komal ? asked Carthoris . 
I heard your jeddak speak of him . 
Jav bent low toward the ear of the Heliumite , looking fearfully about before he spoke . 
Komal is the essence , he whispered . 
Even the etherealists admit that mind itself must have substance in order to transmit to imaginings the appearance of substance . 
For if there really was no such thing as substance it could not be suggested what never has been cannot be imagined . 
Do you follow me ? I am groping , replied Carthoris dryly . 
So the essence must be substance , continued Jav . 
Komal is the essence of the All , as it were . 
He is maintained by substance . 
To be explicit , he eats the realists . 
He says that inasmuch as we maintain that we alone are real we should , to be consistent , admit that we alone are proper food for Komal . 
Sometimes , as to day , we find other food for him . 
He is very fond of Torquasians . 
And Komal is a man ? asked Carthoris . 
He is All , I told you , replied Jav . 
I know not how to explain him in words that you will understand . 
He is the beginning and the end . 
All life emanates from Komal , since the substance which feeds the brain with imaginings radiates from the body of Komal . 
Should Komal cease to eat , all life upon Barsoom would cease to be . 
He cannot die , but he might cease to eat , and , thus , to radiate . 
And he feeds upon the men and women of your belief ? cried Carthoris . 
There are no women in Lothar . 
Scarce twenty thousand men of all the countless millions of our race lived to reach Lothar . 
Among us were no women and no children . 
All these had perished by the way . 
As time went on , we , too , were dying and the race fast approaching extinction , when the Great Truth was revealed to us , that mind is all . 
Many more died before we perfected our powers , but at last we were able to defy death when we fully understood that death was merely a state of mind . 
Then came the creation of mind people , or rather the materialization of imaginings . 
That day we threw our first bowmen against them . 
The intention was purely to frighten them away by the vast numbers of bowmen which we could muster upon our walls . 
All Lothar bristled with the bows and arrows of our ethereal host . 
But the Torquasians did not frighten . 
They are lower than the beasts they know no fear . 
Not an arrow had been discharged by our bowmen we did but cause them to run to and fro along the wall top , screaming taunts and threats at the enemy . 
Presently I thought to attempt the thing THE GREAT THING . 
I centred all my mighty intellect upon the bowmen of my own creation each of us produces and directs as many bowmen as his mentality and imagination is capable of . 
I caused them to fit arrows to their bows for the first time . 
I made them take aim at the hearts of the green men . 
I made the green men see all this , and then I made them see the arrows fly , and I made them think that the points pierced their hearts . 
It was all that was necessary . 
We might have killed them at any distance , but one rule of war we have maintained from the first the rule of realism . 
We do nothing , or rather we cause our bowmen to do nothing within sight of the enemy that is beyond the understanding of the foe . 
Otherwise they might guess the truth , and that would be the end of us . 
But after the Torquasians had retreated beyond bowshot , they turned upon us with their terrible rifles , and by constant popping at us made life miserable within our walls . 
So then I bethought the scheme to hurl our bowmen through the gates upon them . 
You have seen this day how well it works . 
For ages they have come down upon us at intervals , but always with the same results . 
And all this is due to your intellect , Jav ? asked Carthoris . 
I should think that you would be high in the councils of your people . 
I am , replied Jav , proudly . 
I am next to Tario . 
But why , then , your cringing manner of approaching the throne ? Tario demands it . 
He is jealous of me . 
He only awaits the slightest excuse to feed me to Komal . 
He fears that I may some day usurp his power . 
Carthoris suddenly sprang from the table . 
I am a beast ! Here I have been eating my fill , while the Princess of Ptarth may perchance be still without food . 
Let us return and find some means of furnishing her with nourishment . 
The Lotharian shook his head . 
Tario would not permit it , he said . 
He will , doubtless , make an etherealist of her . 
But I must go to her , insisted Carthoris . 
You say that there are no women in Lothar . 
Then she must be among men , and if this be so I intend to be near where I may defend her if the need arises . 
Tario will have his way , insisted Jav . 
He sent you away and you may not return until he sends for you . 
Then I shall go without waiting to be sent for . 
Do not forget the bowmen , cautioned Jav . 
Carthoris started to leave the room . 
Jav stepped before him , barring his way . 
I have learned to like you , red man , he said but do not forget that Tario is still my jeddak , and that Tario has commanded that you remain here . 
Carthoris was about to reply , when there came faintly to the ears of both a woman's cry for help . 
With a sweep of his arm the Prince of Helium brushed the Lotharian aside , and with drawn sword sprang into the corridor without . 
CHAPTER VIII THE HALL OF DOOM As Thuvia of Ptarth saw Carthoris depart from the presence of Tario , leaving her alone with the man , a sudden qualm of terror seized her . 
There was an air of mystery pervading the stately chamber . 
Its furnishings and appointments bespoke wealth and culture , and carried the suggestion that the room was often the scene of royal functions which filled it to its capacity . 
For a time after the departure of Jav and Carthoris the man eyed her intently . 
Tell me , woman , from whose brain have you sprung ? Jav's ? No , do not deny it . 
I know that it could be no other than that envious realist . 
He seeks to tempt me . 
He would see me fall beneath the spell of your charms , and then he , your master , would direct my destiny and my end . 
I see it all ! I see it all ! The blood of indignation and anger had been rising to Thuvia's face . 
Her chin was up , a haughty curve upon her perfect lips . 
I know naught , she cried , of what you are prating ! I am Thuvia , Princess of Ptarth . 
I am no man's creature . 
Never before to day did I lay eyes upon him you call Jav , nor upon your ridiculous city , of which even the greatest nations of Barsoom have never dreamed . 
My charms are not for you , nor such as you . 
They are not for sale or barter , even though the price were a real throne . 
And as for using them to win your worse than futile power She ended her sentence with a shrug of her shapely shoulders , and a little scornful laugh . 
When she had finished Tario was sitting upon the edge of his couch , his feet upon the floor . 
He was leaning forward with eyes no longer half closed , but wide with a startled expression in them . 
He did not seem to note the LESE MAJESTE of her words and manner . 
There was evidently something more startling and compelling about her speech than that . 
Slowly he came to his feet . 
By the fangs of Komal ! he muttered . 
But you are REAL ! A REAL woman ! No dream ! No vain and foolish figment of the mind ! He took a step toward her , with hands outstretched . 
Come , woman ! For countless ages have I dreamed that some day you would come . 
And now that you are here I can scarce believe the testimony of my eyes . 
Even now , knowing that you are real , I still half dread that you may be a lie . 
She thought the man mad . 
Her hand stole to the jewelled hilt of her dagger . 
The man saw the move , and stopped . 
A cunning expression entered his eyes . 
Then they became at once dreamy and penetrating as they fairly bored into the girl's brain . 
Thuvia suddenly felt a change coming over her . 
What the cause of it she did not guess but somehow the man before her began to assume a new relationship within her heart . 
No longer was he a strange and mysterious enemy , but an old and trusted friend . 
Her hand slipped from the dagger's hilt . 
He spoke gentle , friendly words , and she answered him in a voice that seemed hers and yet another's . 
He was beside her now . 
His hand was up her shoulder . 
His eyes were down bent toward hers . 
She looked up into his face . 
His gaze seemed to bore straight through her to some hidden spring of sentiment within her . 
Her lips parted in sudden awe and wonder at the strange revealment of her inner self that was being laid bare before her consciousness . 
She had known Tario for ever . 
He was more than friend to her . 
She moved a little closer to him . 
In one swift flood of light she knew the truth . 
She loved Tario , Jeddak of Lothar ! She had always loved him . 
The man , seeing the success of his strategy , could not restrain a faint smile of satisfaction . 
Quickly she took a step backward , tearing herself from his grasp . 
But the momentary contact had aroused within Tario all the long buried passions of his loveless existence . 
With a muffled cry he sprang upon her , throwing his arms about her and attempting to drag her lips to his . 
Lovely woman ! Tario would make you queen of Lothar . 
Listen to me ! Listen to the love of the last jeddaks of Barsoom . 
Thuvia struggled to free herself from his embrace . 
Stop , creature ! she cried . 
Stop ! I do not love you . 
Stop , or I shall scream for help ! Tario laughed in her face . 
Scream for help , he mimicked . 
Not Jav , nor any other soft skinned Lotharian , she replied but a real man , a real warrior Carthoris of Helium ! Again the man laughed at her . 
You forget the bowmen , he reminded her . 
What could your red warrior accomplish against my fearless legions ? Again he caught her roughly to him , dragging her towards his couch . 
If you will not be my queen , he said , you shall be my slave . 
Neither ! cried the girl . 
As she spoke the single word there was a quick move of her right hand Tario , releasing her , staggered back , both hands pressed to his side . 
At the same instant the room filled with bowmen , and then the jeddak of Lothar sank senseless to the marble floor . 
At the instant that he lost consciousness the bowmen were about to release their arrows into Thuvia's heart . 
Involuntarily she gave a single cry for help , though she knew that not even Carthoris of Helium could save her now . 
Then she closed her eyes and waited for the end . 
No slender shafts pierced her tender side . 
She raised her lids to see what stayed the hand of her executioners . 
The girl glanced apprehensively about , first for signs of the return of the bowmen , and then for some means of escape . 
The wall behind the dais was pierced by two small doorways , hidden by heavy hangings . 
Thuvia was running quickly towards one of these when she heard the clank of a warrior's metal at the end of the apartment behind her . 
For days she had doubted his intentions of the Heliumite . 
She had thought him a party to her abduction . 
She knew that Carthoris of Helium would fight for her but whether to save her for himself or another , she was in doubt . 
Never , she thought , in all her life had the sight of any man been so welcome to her . 
It was with difficulty that she refrained from rushing forward to meet him . 
She knew that he loved her but , in time , she recalled that she was promised to Kulan Tith . 
Not even might she trust herself to show too great gratitude to the Heliumite , lest he misunderstand . 
Carthoris was by her side now . 
His quick glance had taken in the scene within the room the still figure of the jeddak sprawled upon the floor the girl hastening toward a shrouded exit . 
Did he harm you , Thuvia ? he asked . 
She held up her crimsoned blade that he might see it . 
No , she said , he did not harm me . 
A grim smile lighted Carthoris' face . 
Praised be our first ancestor ! he murmured . 
And now let us see if we may not make good our escape from this accursed city before the Lotharians discover that their jeddak is no more . 
They had almost reached the threshold when a figure sprang into the apartment through another entrance . 
He , too , took in the scene within at a glance . 
Carthoris turned to face him , his sword ready in his hand , and his great body shielding the slender figure of the girl . 
Come , Jav of Lothar ! he cried . 
Let us face the issue at once , for only one of us may leave this chamber alive with Thuvia of Ptarth . 
You have killed Tario ! exclaimed Jav , ignoring the other's challenge . 
You have killed Tario ! I see his blood upon the floor real blood real death . 
Tario was , after all , as real as I. Yet he was an etherealist . 
He would not materialize his sustenance . 
Can it be that they are right ? Well , we , too , are right . 
And all these ages we have been quarrelling each saying that the other was wrong ! However , he is dead now . 
Of that I am glad . 
Now shall Jav come into his own . 
Now shall Jav be Jeddak of Lothar ! As he finished , Tario opened his eyes and then quickly sat up . 
Traitor ! Assassin ! he screamed , and then Kadar ! Kadar ! which is the Barsoomian for guard . 
He fell upon his belly , wriggling toward Tario . 
Oh , my Jeddak , my Jeddak ! he whimpered . 
Jav had no hand in this . 
Jav , your faithful Jav , but just this instant entered the apartment to find you lying prone upon the floor and these two strangers about to leave . 
How it happened I know not . 
Believe me , most glorious Jeddak ! Cease , knave ! cried Tario . 
I heard your words However , he is dead now . 
Of that I am glad . 
Now shall Jav come into his own . 
Now shall Jav be Jeddak of Lothar . 
At last , traitor , I have found you out . 
Your own words have condemned you as surely as the acts of these red creatures have sealed their fates unless He paused . 
Unless the woman But he got no further . 
Carthoris guessed what he would have said , and before the words could be uttered he had sprung forward and struck the man across the mouth with his open palm . 
Tario frothed in rage and mortification . 
And should you again affront the Princess of Ptarth , warned the Heliumite , I shall forget that you wear no sword not for ever may I control my itching sword hand . 
Tario shrank back toward the little doorways behind the dais . 
He was trying to speak , but so hideously were the muscles of his face working that he could utter no word for several minutes . 
At last he managed to articulate intelligibly . 
Die ! and then he turned toward the exit at his back . 
Jav leaped forward , screaming in terror . 
Have pity , Tario ! Have pity ! Remember the long ages that I have served you faithfully . 
Remember all that I have done for Lothar . 
Do not condemn me now to the death hideous . 
Save me ! Save me ! But Tario only laughed a mocking laugh and continued to back toward the hangings that hid the little doorway . 
Stop him ! he screamed . 
Stop him ! If you love life , let him not leave this room , and as he spoke he leaped in pursuit of his jeddak . 
Carthoris followed Jav's example , but the last of the jeddaks of Barsoom was too quick for them . 
By the time they reached the arras behind which he had disappeared , they found a heavy stone door blocking their further progress . 
Jav sank to the floor in a spasm of terror . 
Come , man ! cried Carthoris . 
We are not dead yet . 
Let us hasten to the avenues and make an attempt to leave the city . 
We are still alive , and while we live we may yet endeavour to direct our own destinies . 
Of what avail , to sink spineless to the floor ? Come , be a man ! Jav but shook his head . 
Did you not hear him call the guards ? he moaned . 
Ah , if we could have but intercepted him ! Then there might have been hope but , alas , he was too quick for us . 
Well , well , exclaimed Carthoris impatiently . 
Jav shook his head mournfully . 
You do not understand , he said . 
The guards have already come and gone . 
They have done their work and we are lost . 
Look to the various exits . 
Carthoris and Thuvia turned their eyes in the direction of the several doorways which pierced the walls of the great chamber . 
Each was tightly closed by huge stone doors . 
We are to die the death , whispered Jav faintly . 
Further than that he would not say . 
He just sat upon the edge of the jeddak's couch and waited . 
For what seemed hours no sound broke the silence of their living tomb . 
No sign gave their executioners of the time or manner of their death . 
Even Carthoris of Helium began to feel the terrible strain upon his nerves . 
Thuvia of Ptarth drew quite close to him . 
She felt safer with the feel of his arm against hers , and with the contact of her the man took a new grip upon himself . 
With his old time smile he turned toward her . 
She was about to make some reply when a fearful shriek broke from the lips of the Lotharian . 
The end is coming ! he cried . 
Slowly the marble flagging was sinking in all directions toward the centre . 
At first the movement , being gradual , was scarce noticeable but presently the angle of the floor became such that one might stand easily only by bending one knee considerably . 
Now it became more and more difficult to cling to the dizzy inclination of the smooth and polished marble . 
Carthoris tried to support Thuvia , but himself commenced to slide and slip toward the ever enlarging aperture . 
In her terror her own hands clasped about the man's neck . 
Her cheek was close to his . 
Death , unseen and of unknown form , seemed close upon them , and because unseen and unknowable infinitely more terrifying . 
Courage , my princess , he whispered . 
She looked up into his face to see smiling lips above hers and brave eyes , untouched by terror , drinking deeply of her own . 
Then the floor sagged and tilted more swiftly . 
There was a sudden slipping rush as they were precipitated toward the aperture . 
For a moment they breathed more freely , but presently they discovered that the aperture was continuing to enlarge . 
There was a sickening sensation as they felt all let go beneath them , as they fell through darkness to an unknown death . 
Carthoris , still clasping Thuvia tightly to his breast , came to the ground catlike , upon his feet , breaking the shock for the girl . 
Scarce had his feet touched the rough stone flagging of this new chamber than his sword flashed out ready for instant use . 
But though the room was lighted , there was no sign of enemy about . 
The man was pasty white with fear . 
What is to be our fate ? asked the Heliumite . 
We are to be devoured by Komal ! Your deity ? asked Carthoris . 
The Lotharian nodded his head . 
Then he pointed toward a low doorway at one end of the chamber . 
From thence will he come upon us . 
Lay aside your puny sword , fool . 
It will but enrage him the more and make our sufferings the worse . 
Carthoris smiled , gripping his long sword the more firmly . 
Presently Jav gave a horrified moan , at the same time pointing toward the door . 
He has come , he whimpered . 
Slowly and with dignity the mighty beast advanced into the room . 
Jav had fallen to the floor , and was wriggling his body in the same servile manner that he had adopted toward Tario . 
He spoke to the fierce beast as he would have spoken to a human being , pleading with it for mercy . 
Carthoris stepped between Thuvia and the banth , his sword ready to contest the beast's victory over them . 
Is this Komal , your god ? she asked . 
The girl smiled , and then , brushing past Carthoris , she stepped swiftly toward the growling carnivore . 
In low , firm tones she spoke to it as she had spoken to the banths of the Golden Cliffs and the scavengers before the walls of Lothar . 
The beast ceased its growling . 
With lowered head and catlike purr , it came slinking to the girl's feet . 
It is but a banth , she said . 
We have nothing to fear from it . 
I did not fear it , he replied , for I , too , believed it to be only a banth , and I have my long sword . 
So this is your god ! laughed Thuvia . 
Yes , he said , this is Komal . 
For ages the enemies of Tario have been hurled to this pit to fill his maw , for Komal must be fed . 
Is there any way out of this chamber to the avenues of the city ? asked Carthoris . 
I do not know , he replied . 
Never have I been here before , nor ever have I cared to do so . 
Come , suggested Thuvia , let us explore . 
There must be a way out . 
Together the three approached the doorway through which Komal had entered the apartment that was to have witnessed their deaths . 
Beyond was a low roofed lair , with a small door at the far end . 
This , to their delight , opened to the lifting of an ordinary latch , letting them into a circular arena , surrounded by tiers of seats . 
Here is where Komal is fed in public , explained Jav . 
I did not know how closely connected were the two chambers . 
Now we may easily reach the avenues and the city gates . 
Only the bowmen may dispute the right of way , and , knowing their secret , I doubt that they have power to harm us . 
Another door led to a flight of steps that rose from the arena level upward through the seats to an exit at the back of the hall . 
Beyond this was a straight , broad corridor , running directly through the palace to the gardens at the side . 
No one appeared to question them as they advanced , mighty Komal pacing by the girl's side . 
Where are the people of the palace the jeddak's retinue ? asked Carthoris . 
Even in the city streets as we came through I scarce saw sign of a human being , yet all about are evidences of a mighty population . 
Poor Lothar , he said . 
It is indeed a city of ghosts . 
There are scarce a thousand of us left , who once were numbered in the millions . 
Our great city is peopled by the creatures of our own imaginings . 
For our own needs we do not take the trouble to materialize these peoples of our brain , yet they are apparent to us . 
Even now I see great throngs lining the avenue , hastening to and fro in the round of their duties . 
I see women and children laughing on the balconies these we are forbidden to materialize but yet I see them they are here . 
But why not ? he mused . 
No longer need I fear Tario he has done his worst , and failed . 
Why not indeed ? Stay , friends , he continued . 
Would you see Lothar in all her glory ? Carthoris and Thuvia nodded their assent , more out of courtesy than because they fully grasped the import of his mutterings . 
Jav gazed at them penetratingly for an instant , then , with a wave of his hand , cried Look ! The sight that met them was awe inspiring . 
Where before there had been naught but deserted pavements and scarlet swards , yawning windows and tenantless doors , now swarmed a countless multitude of happy , laughing people . 
It is the past , said Jav in a low voice . 
Brave men , they ah , but the glory of Lothar has faded ! See their weapons . 
They alone bore arms , for they crossed the five seas to strange places where dangers were . 
With their passing passed the martial spirit of the Lotharians , leaving , as the ages rolled by , a race of spineless cowards . 
We hated war , and so we trained not our youth in warlike ways . 
Thus followed our undoing , for when the seas dried and the green hordes encroached upon us we could do naught but flee . 
But we remembered the seafaring bowmen of the days of our glory it is the memory of these which we hurl upon our enemies . 
As Jav ceased speaking , the picture faded , and once more , the three took up their way toward the distant gates , along deserted avenues . 
Twice they sighted Lotharians of flesh and blood . 
At sight of them and the huge banth which they must have recognized as Komal , the citizens turned and fled . 
They will carry word of our flight to Tario , cried Jav , and soon he will send his bowmen after us . 
Let us hope that our theory is correct , and that their shafts are powerless against minds cognizant of their unreality . 
Explain , red man , to the woman the truths that I have explained to you , that she may meet the arrows with a stronger counter suggestion of immunity . 
Carthoris did as Jav bid him but they came to the great gates without sign of pursuit developing . 
Scarce had they covered a hundred yards when the sound of many men shouting arose behind them . 
As they turned they saw a company of bowmen debouching upon the plain from the gate through which they had but just passed . 
Upon the wall above the gate were a number of Lotharians , among whom Jav recognized Tario . 
The jeddak stood glaring at them , evidently concentrating all the forces of his trained mind upon them . 
That he was making a supreme effort to render his imaginary creatures deadly was apparent . 
Jav turned white , and commenced to tremble . 
At the crucial moment he appeared to lose the courage of his conviction . 
The great banth turned back toward the advancing bowmen and growled . 
Carthoris placed himself between Thuvia and the enemy and , facing them , awaited the outcome of their charge . 
Suddenly an inspiration came to Carthoris . 
Hurl your own bowmen against Tario's ! he cried to Jav . 
Let us see a materialized battle between two mentalities . 
Jav was a new man the moment his battalions stood between him and Tario . 
One could almost have sworn the man believed these creatures of his strange hypnotic power to be real flesh and blood . 
With hoarse battle cries they charged the bowmen of Tario . 
Barbed shafts flew thick and fast . 
Men fell , and the ground was red with gore . 
Carthoris and Thuvia had difficulty in reconciling the reality of it all with their knowledge of the truth . 
They saw utan after utan march from the gate in perfect step to reinforce the outnumbered company which Tario had first sent forth to arrest them . 
They saw Jav's forces grow correspondingly until all about them rolled a sea of fighting , cursing warriors , and the dead lay in heaps about the field . 
Jav and Tario seemed to have forgotten all else beside the struggling bowmen that surged to and fro , filling the broad field between the forest and the city . 
The wood loomed close behind Thuvia and Carthoris . 
The latter cast a glance toward Jav . 
Come ! he whispered to the girl . 
Let them fight out their empty battle neither , evidently , has power to harm the other . 
They are like two controversialists hurling words at one another . 
While they are engaged we may as well be devoting our energies to an attempt to find the passage through the cliffs to the plain beyond . 
As he spoke , Jav , turning from the battle for an instant , caught his words . 
He saw the girl move to accompany the Heliumite . 
A cunning look leaped to the Lotharian's eyes . 
The thing that lay beyond that look had been deep in his heart since first he had laid eyes upon Thuvia of Ptarth . 
He had not recognized it , however , until now that she seemed about to pass out of his existence . 
He centred his mind upon the Heliumite and the girl for an instant . 
Carthoris saw Thuvia of Ptarth step forward with outstretched hand . 
As the Lotharian had turned toward them , Thuvia had been surprised to hear Carthoris suddenly voice a new plan . 
Remain here with Jav , she had heard him say , while I go to search for the passage through the cliffs . 
She had dropped back in surprise and disappointment , for she knew that there was no reason why she should not have accompanied him . 
Certainly she should have been safer with him than left here alone with the Lotharian . 
And Jav watched the two and smiled his cunning smile . 
When Carthoris had disappeared within the wood , Thuvia seated herself apathetically upon the scarlet sward to watch the seemingly interminable struggles of the bowmen . 
The long afternoon dragged its weary way toward darkness , and still the imaginary legions charged and retreated . 
The sun was about to set when Tario commenced to withdraw his troops slowly toward the city . 
Sentries were posted between the camp and the city . 
Officers clanked hither and thither issuing commands and seeing to it that they were properly carried out . 
While they exist they are real . 
I do but call them into being now , and in a way direct their general actions . 
But thereafter , until I dissolve them , they are as actual as you or I. Their officers command them , under my guidance . 
I am the general that is all . 
And the psychological effect upon the enemy is far greater than were I to treat them merely as substanceless vagaries . 
Some there are who claim already to have accomplished the thing . 
It is generally supposed that the etherealists have quite a few among their number who are permanent materializations . 
It is even said that such is Tario , but that cannot be , for he existed before we had discovered the full possibilities of suggestion . 
There are others among us who insist that none of us is real . 
That we could not have existed all these ages without material food and water had we ourselves been material . 
Although I am a realist , I rather incline toward this belief myself . 
It would appear possible , and yet in so far as I am concerned I have all the attributes of corporeal existence . 
I eat , I sleep he paused , casting a meaning look upon the girl I love ! Thuvia could not mistake the palpable meaning of his words and expression . 
She turned away with a little shrug of disgust that was not lost upon the Lotharian . 
He came close to her and seized her arm . 
Why not Jav ? he cried . 
Who more honourable than the second of the world's most ancient race ? Your Heliumite ? He has gone . 
He has deserted you to your fate to save himself . 
Come , be Jav's ! Thuvia of Ptarth rose to her full height , her lifted shoulder turned toward the man , her haughty chin upraised , a scornful twist to her lips . 
You lie ! she said quietly , the Heliumite knows less of disloyalty than he knows of fear , and of fear he is as ignorant as the unhatched young . 
Then where is he ? taunted the Lotharian . 
I tell you he has fled the valley . 
He has left you to your fate . 
But Jav will see that it is a pleasant one . 
To morrow we shall return into Lothar at the head of my victorious army , and I shall be jeddak and you shall be my consort . 
Come ! And he attempted to crush her to his breast . 
The girl struggled to free herself , striking at the man with her metal armlets . 
Yet still he drew her toward him , until both were suddenly startled by a hideous growl that rumbled from the dark wood close behind them . 
Onward through the dim wood they passed until the shadows of the quick coming Martian night commenced to close down upon them . 
Then it was that Carthoris turned to speak to the girl at his side . 
They must plan together for the future . 
As his eyes rested upon her , he was struck by her strangely ethereal appearance . 
She seemed suddenly to have dissolved into the tenuous substance of a dream , and as he continued to gaze upon her , she faded slowly from his sight . 
For an instant he was dumbfounded , and then the whole truth flashed suddenly upon him . 
Jav had caused him to believe that Thuvia was accompanying him through the wood while , as a matter of fact , he had detained the girl for himself ! Carthoris was horrified . 
He cursed himself for his stupidity , and yet he knew that the fiendish power which the Lotharian had invoked to confuse him might have deceived any . 
At first he saw no indication that there was another than himself anywhere about . 
No myriad bowmen camped now beneath the overhanging verdure of the giant trees . 
No gory heaps of tortured dead defaced the beauty of the scarlet sward . 
The Heliumite , scarce pausing at the forest's verge , pushed on across the plain toward the city , when presently he descried a huddled form in the grass at his feet . 
It was the body of a man , lying prone . 
Carthoris turned the figure over upon its back . 
It was Jav , but torn and mangled almost beyond recognition . 
The prince bent low to note if any spark of life remained , and as he did so the lids raised and dull , suffering eyes looked up into his . 
The Princess of Ptarth ! cried Carthoris . 
Where is she ? Answer me , man , or I complete the work that another has so well begun . 
and would have devoured me but for the girl . 
Then they went away together into the wood the girl and the great banth . 
her fingers twined in his tawny mane . 
Which way went they ? asked Carthoris . 
There , replied Jav faintly , toward the passage through the cliffs . 
The Prince of Helium waited to hear no more , but springing to his feet , raced back again into the forest . 
It was dawn when he reached the mouth of the dark tunnel that would lead him to the other world beyond this valley of ghostly memories and strange hypnotic influences and menaces . 
He could at best but hazard a chance guess that toward Aaanthor Thuvia would take her flight . 
He did not know that in the face of the circumstantial evidence against him even his own people had commenced to entertain suspicions that he might have stolen the Ptarthian princess . 
And now two great fleets were moving upon Helium , while the Dusarian spies at the court of Tardos Mors saw to it that the twin cities remained in ignorance of their danger . 
But of all this Carthoris was ignorant . 
All that interested him at present was the finding of Thuvia of Ptarth . 
Her trail beside that of the huge banth had been well marked to the tunnel , and was once more visible leading southward into the foothills . 
As the fellow drew closer , Carthoris halted to await his coming . 
He knew that the man was unarmed , and that he was apparently a Lotharian , for his skin was white and his hair auburn . 
He approached the Heliumite without sign of fear , and when quite close called out the cheery Barsoomian kaor of greeting . 
Who are you ? asked Carthoris . 
I am Kar Komak , odwar of the bowmen , replied the other . 
A strange thing has happened to me . 
For ages Tario has been bringing me into existence as he needed the services of the army of his mind . 
Of all the bowmen it has been Kar Komak who has been oftenest materialized . 
For a long time Tario has been concentrating his mind upon my permanent materialization . 
It has been an obsession with him that some day this thing could be accomplished and the future of Lothar assured . 
My men were gone back to the nothingness from which they had sprung , but I remained naked and unarmed . 
At first I could not understand , but at last came a realization of what had occurred . 
You wish to return to Lothar ? asked Carthoris . 
No ! replied Kar Komak quickly . 
I have no love for Tario . 
Being a creature of his mind , I know him too well . 
He is cruel and tyrannical a master I have no desire to serve . 
Now that he has succeeded in accomplishing my permanent materialization , he will be unbearable , and he will go on until he has filled Lothar with his creatures . 
I wonder if he has succeeded as well with the maid of Lothar . 
I thought there were no women there , said Carthoris . 
In a hidden apartment in the palace of Tario , replied Kar Komak , the jeddak has maintained the suggestion of a beautiful girl , hoping that some day she would become permanent . 
I have seen her there . 
She is wonderful ! But for her sake I hope that Tario succeeds not so well with her as he has with me . 
Now , red man , I have told you of myself what of you ? Carthoris liked the face and manner of the bowman . 
There had been no sign of doubt or fear in his expression as he had approached the heavily armed Heliumite , and he had spoken directly and to the point . 
So the Prince of Helium told the bowman of Lothar who he was and what adventure had brought him to this far country . 
Good ! exclaimed the other , when he had done . 
Kar Komak will accompany you . 
What mean you ? asked Carthoris . 
Had you really a former actual existence ? Most assuredly , replied Kar Komak . 
In my day I commanded the fleets of Lothar mightiest of all the fleets that sailed the five salt seas . 
Wherever men lived upon Barsoom there was the name of Kar Komak known and respected . 
Ah , but it will seem good to see men once again real men ! Never had I much respect for the landsmen of my day . 
They remained in their walled cities wasting their time in play , depending for their protection entirely upon the sea race . 
And the poor creatures who remain , the Tarios and Javs of Lothar , are even worse than their ancient forbears . 
Carthoris was a trifle sceptical as to the wisdom of permitting the stranger to attach himself to him . 
The outcome of the matter was that he gave the naked odwar leave to accompany him , and together they set out upon the spoor of Thuvia and Komal . 
Down to the ochre sea bottom the trail led . 
There it disappeared , as Carthoris had known that it would but where it entered the plain its direction had been toward Aaanthor and so toward Aaanthor the two turned their faces . 
It was a long and tedious journey , fraught with many dangers . 
All the way they were in constant danger of discovery by roving bands of Torquasians , and especially was this true before they reached the boundary of Torquas . 
Good fortune was with them , however , and although they sighted two detachments of the savage green men , they were not themselves seen . 
And so they came , upon the morning of the third day , within sight of the glistening domes of distant Aaanthor . 
Throughout the journey Carthoris had ever strained his eyes ahead in search of Thuvia and the great banth but not till now had he seen aught to give him hope . 
This morning , far ahead , half way between themselves and Aaanthor , the men saw two tiny figures moving toward the city . 
For a moment they watched them intently . 
Then Carthoris , convinced , leaped forward at a rapid run , Kar Komak following as swiftly as he could . 
The Heliumite shouted to attract the girl's attention , and presently he was rewarded by seeing her turn and stand looking toward him . 
At her side the great banth stood with up pricked ears , watching the approaching man . 
Not yet could Thuvia of Ptarth have recognized Carthoris , though that it was he she must have been convinced , for she waited there for him without sign of fear . 
Presently he saw her point toward the northwest , beyond him . 
Without slackening his pace , he turned his eyes in the direction she indicated . 
Racing silently over the thick vegetation , not half a mile behind , came a score of fierce green warriors , charging him upon their mighty thoats . 
But Kar Komak never hesitated . 
With shouts of encouragement to his new friend , he hurried onward toward the Prince of Helium . 
The red man's heart leaped in response to this exhibition of courage and self sacrifice . 
Even as it was , it would be nip and tuck as to who came first to her side . 
Now , indeed , seemed little hope for Thuvia of Ptarth . 
As Thuvia saw Carthoris approaching , she felt again that unaccountable sensation of entire relief from responsibility and fear that she had experienced upon a former occasion . 
Nor could she account for it while her mind still tried to convince her heart that the Prince of Helium had been instrumental in her abduction from her father's court . 
She only knew that she was glad when he was by her side , and that with him there all things seemed possible even such impossible things as escape from her present predicament . 
Now had he stopped , panting , before her . 
A brave smile of encouragement lit his face . 
Courage , my princess , he whispered . 
Then she had not chidden him for the use of that familiar salutation , nor did she chide him now , though she was promised to another . 
Carthoris saw her flush of mortification , and in an instant regretted his words . 
There was but a moment before the green warriors would be upon them . 
Forgive me ! said the man in a low voice . 
CHAPTER XI GREEN MEN AND WHITE APES A Torquasian sword smote a glancing blow across the forehead of Carthoris . 
He had a fleeting vision of soft arms about his neck , and warm lips close to his before he lost consciousness . 
Thuvia was gone , nor was the body of Kar Komak among the dead . 
Weak from loss of blood , Carthoris made his way slowly toward Aaanthor , reaching its outskirts at dark . 
And as the Heliumite entered the small building a dozen mighty , grotesque figures emerged from the doorway of the palace to speed noiselessly across the plaza toward him . 
For half an hour Carthoris remained in the building , digging for water and gaining the few much needed drops which were the fruits of his labour . 
Then he rose and slowly left the structure . 
Scarce had he stepped beyond the threshold than twelve Torquasian warriors leaped upon him . 
Then they overpowered him and took his weapons away but only nine of the twelve warriors who had crossed the plaza returned with their prize . 
They dragged their prisoner roughly to the palace pits , where in utter darkness they chained him with rusty links to the solid masonry of the wall . 
To morrow Thar Ban will speak with you , they said . 
Then they left him to the silence and the darkness . 
Minutes passed minutes that seemed hours during which time periods of sepulchral silence would be followed by a repetition of the uncanny scraping of naked feet slinking warily upon him . 
Then the clanging of a chain , and a noise as of the snapping back against stone of a broken link . 
But for a moment only . 
Now he heard once more the soft feet approaching him . 
He thought that he discerned wicked eyes gleaming fearfully at him through the darkness . 
He knew that he could hear the heavy breathing of powerful lungs . 
Then came the rush of many feet toward him , and the THINGS were upon him . 
Hands terminating in manlike fingers clutched at his throat and arms and legs . 
Hairy bodies strained and struggled against his own smooth hide as he battled in grim silence against these horrid foemen in the darkness of the pits of ancient Aaanthor . 
Thewed like some giant god was Carthoris of Helium , yet in the clutches of these unseen creatures of the pit's Stygian night he was helpless as a frail woman . 
Fangs , too , mighty fangs , he knew were close , and why they did not sink into his flesh he could not guess . 
Now he was seized upon either side and dragged at a rapid pace through the dark corridors toward what fate he could not even guess . 
At first he had thought his foes might be of the tribe of Torquas , but their hairy bodies belied that belief . 
Now he was at last quite sure of their identity , though why they had not killed and devoured him at once he could not imagine . 
Immediately Carthoris saw that he was in the power of a tribe of the great white apes of Barsoom . 
Carthoris had read of the existence of tribes of apes that seemed to be progressing slowly toward higher standards of intelligence . 
As his eyes met those of his fellow captive a smile lit the other's face , and Kaor , red man ! burst from his lips . 
It was Kar Komak , the bowman . 
Kaor ! cried Carthoris , in response . 
They fought with the green men of Torquas . 
They slew Komal , god of Lothar . 
Then the green men seized me , and carried me to a great , empty city , where they chained me to a wall in a black pit . 
Afterward came these and dragged me hither . 
And what of you , red man ? Carthoris related all that had befallen him , and as the two men talked the great apes squatted about them watching them intently . 
What are we to do now ? asked the bowman . 
Our case looks rather hopeless , replied Carthoris ruefully . 
These creatures are born man eaters . 
Why they have not already devoured us I cannot imagine there ! he whispered . 
See ? The end is coming . 
Kar Komak looked in the direction Carthoris indicated to see a huge ape advancing with a mighty bludgeon . 
It is thus they like best to kill their prey , said Carthoris . 
Must we die without a struggle ? asked Kar Komak . 
At the words Carthoris half sprang to his feet , only to be dragged roughly down by his guard . 
Kar Komak ! he cried . 
Why cannot you do what Tario and Jav did ? They had no bowmen other than those of their own creation . 
You must know the secret of their power . 
Call forth your own utan , Kar Komak ! The Lotharian looked at Carthoris in wide eyed astonishment as the full purport of the suggestion bore in upon his understanding . 
Why not ? he murmured . 
The savage ape bearing the mighty bludgeon was slinking toward Carthoris . 
The Heliumite's fingers were working as he kept his eyes upon his executioner . 
Kar Komak bent his gaze penetratingly upon the apes . 
The effort of his mind was evidenced in the sweat upon his contracted brows . 
The creature that was to slay the red man was almost within arm's reach of his prey when Carthoris heard a hoarse shout from the opposite side of the courtyard . 
With screams of rage the apes leaped to their feet to meet the charge . 
A volley of arrows met them half way , sending a dozen rolling lifeless to the ground . 
Then the apes closed with their adversaries . 
All their attention was occupied by the attackers even the guard had deserted the prisoners to join in the battle . 
Come ! whispered Kar Komak . 
Now may we escape while their attention is diverted from us by my bowmen . 
And leave those brave fellows leaderless ? cried Carthoris , whose loyal nature revolted at the merest suggestion of such a thing . 
You forget , he said , that they are but thin air figments of my brain . 
They will vanish , unscathed , when we have no further need for them . 
You are right , said Carthoris . 
When they had come to the plaza's edge Carthoris halted . 
Wait here , he whispered . 
I go to fetch thoats , since on foot we may never hope to escape the clutches of these green fiends . 
To reach the courtyard where the thoats were kept it was necessary for Carthoris to pass through one of the buildings which surrounded the square . 
Chance carried him through a dark doorway into a large chamber in which lay a score or more green warriors wrapped in their sleeping silks and furs . 
Carthoris realized that he must have passed within a foot of the warrior , doubtless rousing him from his slumber . 
To retreat now would be impossible . 
Yet to cross through that roomful of sleeping warriors seemed almost equally beyond the pale of possibility . 
Carthoris shrugged his broad shoulders and chose the lesser evil . 
Warily he entered the room . 
Beside each sleeper lay his weapon these were never far from their owners from childhood to death . 
The sight of the swords made the young man's palm itch . 
He stepped quickly to them , selecting two short swords one for Kar Komak , the other for himself also some trappings for his naked comrade . 
Then he started directly across the centre of the apartment among the sleeping Torquasians . 
Not a man of them moved until Carthoris had completed more than half of the short though dangerous journey . 
Then a fellow directly in his path turned restlessly upon his sleeping silks and furs . 
The Heliumite paused above him , one of the short swords in readiness should the warrior awaken . 
Instantly Carthoris struck , but not before a savage grunt escaped the other's lips . 
In an instant the room was in turmoil . 
Warriors leaped to their feet , grasping their weapons as they rose , and shouting to one another for an explanation of the disturbance . 
Now one stumbled against the corpse of him whom Carthoris had slain . 
The fellow stooped and his hand came in contact with the cleft skull . 
He saw about him the giant figures of other green men , and so he jumped to the only conclusion that was open to him . 
The Thurds ! he cried . 
Their savage lust of battle was aroused . 
To fight , to kill , to die with cold steel buried in their vitals ! Ah , that to them was Nirvana . 
Carthoris was quick to guess their error and take advantage of it . 
Once here he had no easy task before him . 
With the feel of his hand upon the sleek hide the creature quieted , and in answer to the telepathic command of the red man sank to its knees . 
In a moment Carthoris was upon its back , guiding it toward the great gate that leads from the courtyard through a large building at one end into an avenue beyond . 
The other bull , still squealing and enraged , followed after his fellow . 
There was no bridle upon either , for these strange creatures are controlled entirely by suggestion when they are controlled at all . 
With difficulty Carthoris urged the two beasts to the gate , where , leaning down , he raised the latch . 
All that night and the following day and the second night they rode toward the north east . 
No indication of pursuit developed , and at dawn of the second day Carthoris saw in the distance the waving ribbon of great trees that marked one of the long Barsoomian water ways . 
Immediately they abandoned their thoats and approached the cultivated district on foot . 
Carthoris stopped before the first gate he came to , pounding for admission . 
The young man who answered his summons greeted the two hospitably , though he looked with considerable wonder upon the white skin and auburn hair of the bowman . 
I am Hal Vas , said the young man , son of Vas Kor , of Dusar , a noble in the retinue of Astok , Prince of Dusar . 
At present I am Dwar of the Road for this district . 
And who are you ? asked Hal Vas . 
By your appearance I take you for a fighting man , but I see no insignia upon your harness . 
Can it be that you are a panthan ? Now , these wandering soldiers of fortune are common upon Barsoom , where most men love to fight . 
When their service is over they discard the metal of the nation they have been serving until they shall have found a new master . 
In the intervals they wear no insignia , their war worn harness and grim weapons being sufficient to attest their calling . 
The suggestion was a happy one , and Carthoris embraced the chance it afforded to account satisfactorily for himself . 
There was , however , a single drawback . 
In times of war such panthans as happened to be within the domain of a belligerent nation were compelled to don the insignia of that nation and fight with her warriors . 
A pleasant smile lighted Hal Vas' face as Carthoris admitted his vocation . 
It is well , exclaimed the young man , that you chanced to come hither , for here you will find the means of obtaining service in short order . 
My father , Vas Kor , is even now with me , having come hither to recruit a force for the new war against Helium . 
What they saw filled each with apprehension . 
Then , shrieking , he attempted to fly toward Lothar , after pushing Thuvia bodily into the face of the man eater . 
But his flight was of short duration . 
In a moment Komal was upon him , rending his throat and chest with demoniacal fury . 
The girl reached their side a moment later , but it was with difficulty that she tore the mad beast from its prey . 
Still growling and casting hungry glances back upon Jav , the banth at last permitted itself to be led away into the wood . 
Thuvia of Ptarth was having difficulty in determining the exact status of the Prince of Helium in her heart . 
Kulan Tith , Jeddak of Kaol , to whom she was affianced , commanded her respect and admiration . 
Black was the hair of Kulan Tith but his eyes were brown . 
It was almost dark when she found the entrance to the tunnel . 
Safely she passed through to the hills beyond , and here , under the bright light of Mars' two moons , she halted to plan her future action . 
Well , she , too , would go first to Aaanthor , where she might find more than the water she needed . 
With Komal by her side she felt little fear , for he would protect her from all other savage beasts . 
Even the great white apes would flee the mighty banth in terror . 
Men only need she fear , but she must take this and many other chances before she could hope to reach her father's court again . 
When at last Carthoris found her , only to be struck down by the long sword of a green man , Thuvia prayed that the same fate might overtake her . 
Komal , too , was dead dead across the body of the Heliumite . 
She was , indeed , alone now . 
There was none to protect her . 
The Dusarian warriors dragged her to the deck of the nearest flier . 
All about them the green warriors surged in an attempt to wrest her from the red . 
At last those who had not died in the conflict gained the decks of the two craft . 
The engines throbbed and purred the propellers whirred . 
Quickly the swift boats shot heavenward . 
Thuvia of Ptarth glanced about her . 
A man stood near , smiling down into her face . 
It was Astok , Prince of Dusar , who bent above her . 
Nor would it go well with Astok or Dusar should any one of them discover Thuvia of Ptarth a prisoner upon his own vessel . 
Great though the distance is , the fliers covered it without a stop . 
Long before they had reached their destination Thuvia of Ptarth had learned several things that cleared up the doubts that had assailed her mind for many days . 
Scarce had they risen above Aaanthor than she recognized one of the crew as a member of the crew of that other flier that had borne her from her father's gardens to Aaanthor . 
The presence of Astok upon the craft settled the whole question . 
She had been stolen by emissaries of the Dusarian prince Carthoris of Helium had had nothing to do with it . 
Nor did Astok deny the charge when she accused him . 
He only smiled and pleaded his love for her . 
I would sooner mate with a white ape ! she cried , when he would have urged his suit . 
Astok glowered sullenly upon her . 
You shall mate with me , Thuvia of Ptarth , he growled , or , by your first ancestor , you shall have your preference and mate with a white ape . 
The girl made no reply , nor could he draw her into conversation during the balance of the journey . 
His one thought was to get her to Dusar , and there let his father assume the responsibility . 
And so at last they came to Dusar , where Astok hid his prisoner in a secret room high in the east tower of his own palace . 
It occurred to him to test his father's sentiments upon the subject , and so he told a tale of capturing one who claimed to know the whereabouts of Thuvia of Ptarth . 
And if you command it , Sire , he said , I will go and capture her fetching her here to Dusar . 
Nutus frowned and shook his head . 
You have done enough already to set Ptarth and Kaol and Helium all three upon us at once should they learn your part in the theft of the Ptarth princess . 
It would cost me my throne , Astok , and that I have no mind to lose . 
If we had her here the elder man suddenly commenced to muse , repeating the phrase again and again . 
If we had her here , Astok , he exclaimed fiercely . 
Astok , Prince of Dusar , shuddered . 
Weak he was yes , and wicked , too but the suggestion that his father's words implied turned him cold with horror . 
Cruel to their enemies are the men of Mars but the word enemies is commonly interpreted to mean men only . 
Nutus was apparently oblivious to his son's all too patent terror at his suggestion . 
Presently he continued You say that you know where the girl lies hid , since she was stolen from your people at Aaanthor . 
Should she be found by any one of the three powers , her unsupported story would be sufficient to turn them all against us . 
There is but one way , Astok , cried the older man . 
You must return at once to her hiding place and fetch her hither in all secrecy . 
And , look you here ! Return not to Dusar without her , upon pain of death ! Astok , Prince of Dusar , well knew his royal father's temper . 
He knew that in the tyrant's heart there pulsed no single throb of love for any creature . 
Astok's mother had been a slave woman . 
Nutus had never loved her . 
He had never loved another . 
In youth he had tried to find a bride at the courts of several of his powerful neighbours , but their women would have none of him . 
After a dozen daughters of his own nobility had sought self destruction rather than wed him he had given up . 
Slowly Astok withdrew from the presence of his father . 
With white face and shaking limbs he made his way to his own palace . 
As he crossed the courtyard his glance chanced to wander to the great east tower looming high against the azure of the sky . 
At sight of it beads of sweat broke out upon his brow . 
Issus ! No other hand than his could be trusted to do the horrid thing . 
With his own fingers he must crush the life from that perfect throat , or plunge the silent blade into the red , red heart . 
He went cold and then hot to the memory of it . 
A cold smile supplanted the terror that had dilated his eyes . 
He turned his steps toward the tower . 
He would see her before he set out upon the journey that was to blind his father to the fact that the girl was already in Dusar . 
Quietly he passed in through the secret way , ascending a spiral runway to the apartment in which the Princess of Ptarth was immured . 
As he entered the room he saw the girl leaning upon the sill of the east casement , gazing out across the roof tops of Dusar toward distant Ptarth . 
The thought of it filled him with rage . 
Why not finish her now and have it done with ? At the sound of his step she turned quickly toward him . 
Ah , how beautiful she was ! His sudden determination faded beneath the glorious light of her wondrous beauty . 
He would wait until he had returned from his little journey of deception maybe there might be some other way then . 
Some other hand to strike the blow with that face , with those eyes before him , he could never do it . 
Of that he was positive . 
He had always gloried in the cruelty of his nature , but , Issus ! he was not that cruel . 
No , another must be found one whom he could trust . 
He was still looking at her as she stood there before him meeting his gaze steadily and unafraid . 
He felt the hot passion of his love mounting higher and higher . 
Why not sue once more ? If she would relent , all might yet be well . 
Ptarth and Kaol and Dusar are battling with Helium because of you . 
Wed me , Thuvia , and all may yet be as it should be . 
The girl shook her head . 
Wait ! he commanded , before she could speak . 
Know the truth before you speak words that may seal , not only your own fate , but that of the thousands of warriors who battle because of you . 
Refuse to wed me willingly , and Dusar would be laid waste should ever the truth be known to Ptarth and Kaol and Helium . 
They would raze our cities , leaving not one stone upon another . 
Refuse , Thuvia of Ptarth , and there remains but a single alternative no man must ever know your fate . 
Refuse , Thuvia of Ptarth , and you must die to save Dusar there is no other way . 
Nutus , the jeddak , has so decreed . 
For a long moment the girl let her level gaze rest full upon the face of Astok of Dusar . 
Then she spoke , and though the words were few , the unimpassioned tone carried unfathomable depths of cold contempt . 
Better all that you have threatened , she said , than you . 
Then she turned her back upon him and went to stand once more before the east window , gazing with sad eyes toward distant Ptarth . 
Astok wheeled and left the room , returning after a short interval of time with food and drink . 
Here , he said , is sustenance until I return again . 
The next to enter this apartment will be your executioner . 
Commend yourself to your ancestors , Thuvia of Ptarth , for within a few days you shall be with them . 
Half an hour later he was interviewing an officer high in the navy of Dusar . 
Whither went Vas Kor ? he asked . 
He is not at his palace . 
South , to the great waterway that skirts Torquas , replied the other . 
His son , Hal Vas , is Dwar of the Road there , and thither has Vas Kor gone to enlist recruits among the workers on the farms . 
Good , said Astok , and a half hour more found him rising above Dusar in his swiftest flier . 
To escape the Dusarians might prove an easy matter and then again it might not . 
The outlook was not cheering . 
He could not guess that within a few hours he would be blessing the fate that had thrown him into the service of Dusar . 
Ah ! exclaimed Hal Vas . 
Here is my father now . 
Here is one you will be glad to meet a doughty panthan He hesitated . 
Turjun , interjected Carthoris , seizing upon the first appellation that occurred to him . 
As he spoke his eyes crossed quickly to the tall warrior who was entering the room . 
Where before had he seen that giant figure , that taciturn countenance , and the livid sword cut from temple to mouth ? Vas Kor , repeated Carthoris mentally . 
And blessed be yours , Turjun , replied Vas Kor . 
Kar Komak , he explained , is , as you can see , a thern . 
He has wandered far from his icebound southern temples in search of adventure . 
I came upon him in the pits of Aaanthor but though I have known him so short a time , I can vouch for his bravery and loyalty . 
Little wonder that he did not know him . 
During the evening Vas Kor announced that on the morrow they should depart north toward Dusar , picking up recruits at various stations along the way . 
In a great field behind the house a flier lay a fair sized cruiser transport that would accommodate many men , yet swift and well armed also . 
Here Carthoris slept , and Kar Komak , too , with the other recruits , under guard of the regular Dusarian warriors that manned the craft . 
Toward midnight Vas Kor returned to the vessel from his son's house , repairing at once to his cabin . 
Carthoris , with one of the Dusarians , was on watch . 
And then , too , there was the instigator of the entire foul plot . 
It soon became evident that the stranger intended making a landing , for she was now spiraling slowly above them , dropping lower and lower in each graceful curve . 
It is the Thuria , whispered one of the Dusarian warriors . 
I would know her in the blackness of the pits among ten thousand other craft . 
Right you are ! exclaimed Vas Kor , who had come on deck . 
And then he hailed Kaor , Thuria ! Kaor ! came presently from above after a brief silence . 
Then What ship ? Cruiser transport Kalksus , Vas Kor of Dusar . 
Good ! came from above . 
Is there safe landing alongside ? Yes , close in to starboard . 
Wait , we will show our lights , and a moment later the smaller craft settled close beside the Kalksus , and the lights of the latter were immediately extinguished once more . 
Several figures could be seen slipping over the side of the Thuria and advancing toward the Kalksus . 
Ever suspicious , the Dusarians stood ready to receive the visitors as friends or foes as closer inspection might prove them . 
He had led like parties himself , and knew that such a contingency was quite possible . 
But the face of the first man to cross the rail undeceived him with a shock that was not at all unpleasurable it was the face of Astok , Prince of Dusar . 
Scarce noticing the others upon the deck of the Kalksus , Astok strode forward to accept Vas Kor's greeting , then he summoned the noble below . 
The warriors and officers returned to their sleeping silks and furs , and once more the deck was deserted except for the Dusarian warrior and Turjun , the panthan , who stood guard . 
The latter walked quietly to and fro . 
The former leaned across the rail , wishing for the hour that would bring him relief . 
He did not see his companion approach the lights of the cabin of Vas Kor . 
He did not see him stoop with ear close pressed to a tiny ventilator . 
He has bidden me bring her here . 
No man should have heard from his lips the thing he was trying to tell . 
It should have been for ever the secret of Nutus and Astok , for upon it rested the safety of a throne . 
With that knowledge any man could wrest from the Jeddak of Dusar whatever he listed . 
But Astok was afraid , and he wanted from this older man the suggestion of an alternative . 
I am to kill her , he whispered , looking fearfully around . 
Nutus merely wishes to see the body that he may know his commands have been executed . 
I am now supposed to be gone to the spot where we have her hidden that I may fetch her in secrecy to Dusar . 
None is to know that she has ever been in the keeping of a Dusarian . 
I do not need to tell you what would befall Dusar should Ptarth and Helium and Kaol ever learn the truth . 
The jaws of the listener at the ventilator clicked together with a vicious snap . 
Before he had but guessed at the identity of the subject of this conversation . 
And they were to kill her ! His muscular fingers clenched until the nails bit into the palms . 
And you wish me to go with you while you fetch her to Dusar , Vas Kor was saying . 
Where is she ? Astok bent close and whispered into the other's ear . 
The suggestion of a smile crossed the cruel features of Vas Kor . 
He realized the power that lay within his grasp . 
He should be a jed at least . 
And how may I help you , my Prince ? asked the older man suavely . 
I cannot kill her , said Astok . 
Issus ! I cannot do it ! When she turns those eyes upon me my heart becomes water . 
And you wish He paused , the interrogation unfinished , yet complete . 
YOU do not love her , he said . 
But I love my life though I am only a lesser noble , he concluded meaningly . 
You shall be a greater noble a noble of the first rank ! exclaimed Astok . 
I would be a jed , said Vas Kor bluntly . 
A jed must die before there can be another jed , he pleaded . 
Jeds have died before , snapped Vas Kor . 
It would doubtless be not difficult for you to find a jed you do not love , Astok there are many who do not love you . 
Already Vas Kor was commencing to presume upon his power over the young prince . 
Astok was quick to note and appreciate the subtle change in his lieutenant . 
A cunning scheme entered his weak and wicked brain . 
As you say , Vas Kor ! he exclaimed . 
You shall be a jed when the thing is done , and then , to himself Nor will it then be difficult for me to find a jed I do not love . 
When shall we return to Dusar ? asked the noble . 
At once , replied Astok . 
Let the recruits wait , said Astok . 
Or , better still , come you to Dusar upon the Thuria , leaving the Kalksus to follow and pick up the recruits . 
Yes , acquiesced Vas Kor that is the better plan . 
Come I am ready , and he rose to accompany Astok to the latter's flier . 
The listener at the ventilator came to his feet slowly , like an old man . 
His face was drawn and pinched and very white beneath the light copper of his skin . 
She was to die ! And he helpless to avert the tragedy . 
He did not even know where she was imprisoned . 
The two men were ascending from the cabin to the deck . 
Turjun , the panthan , crept close to the companionway , his sinuous fingers closing tightly upon the hilt of his dagger . 
Could he despatch them both before he was overpowered ? He smiled . 
He could slay an entire utan of her enemies in his present state of mind . 
They were almost abreast of him now . 
Bring a couple of your men along , Vas Kor , he said . 
We are short handed upon the Thuria , so quickly did we depart . 
The panthan's fingers dropped from the dagger's hilt . 
His quick mind had grasped here a chance for succouring Thuvia of Ptarth . 
He might be chosen as one to accompany the assassins , and once he had learned where the captive lay he could dispatch Astok and Vas Kor as well as now . 
Turjun put himself in the path of Vas Kor that he might not be overlooked . 
The noble aroused the men sleeping upon the deck , but always before him the strange panthan whom he had recruited that same day found means for keeping himself to the fore . 
You two accompany us to the Thuria , he said , and put yourselves at the disposal of her dwar . 
One of the two was Kar Komak , the bowman . 
The other was not Carthoris . 
The Heliumite was mad with disappointment . 
After him came Kar Komak and the Dusarian warrior who had been detailed to duty upon the Thuria . 
Carthoris walked close to the left side of the latter . 
Now they came to the dense shadow under the side of the Thuria . 
It was very dark there , so that they had to grope for the ladder . 
Kar Komak preceded the Dusarian . 
The latter reached upward for the swinging rounds , and as he did so steel fingers closed upon his windpipe and a steel blade pierced the very centre of his heart . 
Turjun , the panthan , was the last to clamber over the rail of the Thuria , drawing the rope ladder in after him . 
A moment later the flier was rising rapidly , headed for the north . 
At the rail Kar Komak turned to speak to the warrior who had been detailed to accompany him . 
His eyes went wide as they rested upon the face of the young man whom he had met beside the granite cliffs that guard mysterious Lothar . 
How had he come in place of the Dusarian ? A quick sign , and Kar Komak turned once more to find the Thuria's dwar that he might report himself for duty . 
Behind him followed the panthan . 
The journey to Dusar seemed interminable to the impatient Carthoris , though as a matter of fact it was quickly accomplished . 
Some time before they reached their destination they met and spoke with another Dusarian war flier . 
From it they learned that a great battle was soon to be fought south east of Dusar . 
Not for many a day had there been the promise of such a battle . 
With the latter was John Carter , Warlord of Mars . 
From the far north another force was moving south across the barrier cliffs the new navy of Talu , Jeddak of Okar , coming in response to the call from the warlord . 
Upon the decks of the sullen ships of war black bearded yellow men looked over eagerly toward the south . 
Gorgeous were they in their splendid cloaks of orluk and apt . 
Fierce , formidable fighters from the hothouse cities of the frozen north . 
Carthoris , too , loyal son of Helium that he was , felt that even his beloved navy might not be able to cope successfully with the combined forces of three great powers . 
Now the Thuria touched the landing stage above the palace of Astok . 
Hurriedly the prince and Vas Kor disembarked and entered the drop that would carry them to the lower levels of the palace . 
Close beside it was another drop that was utilized by common warriors . 
Carthoris touched Kar Komak upon the arm . 
You are my only friend among a nation of enemies . 
Will you stand by me ? To the death , replied Kar Komak . 
The two approached the drop . 
Where are your passes ? he asked . 
Carthoris fumbled in his pocket pouch as though in search of them , at the same time entering the cage . 
Kar Komak followed him , closing the door . 
The slave did not start the cage downward . 
They must reach the lower level as soon as possible after Astok and Vas Kor if they would know whither the two went . 
Carthoris turned suddenly upon the slave , hurling him to the opposite side of the cage . 
Bind and gag him , Kar Komak ! he cried . 
Then he grasped the control lever , and as the cage shot downward at sickening speed , the bowman grappled with the slave . 
Below him he could now see the top of Astok's cage in the parallel shaft , and he reduced the speed of his to that of the other . 
The slave commenced to scream . 
Silence him ! cried Carthoris . 
A moment later a limp form crumpled to the floor of the cage . 
He is silenced , said Kar Komak . 
Carthoris brought the cage to a sudden stop at one of the higher levels of the palace . 
Opening the door , he grasped the still form of the slave and pushed it out upon the floor . 
Then he banged the gate and resumed the downward drop . 
Once more he sighted the top of the cage that held Astok and Vas Kor . 
An instant later it had stopped , and as he brought his car to a halt , he saw the two men disappear through one of the exits of the corridor beyond . 
She had exhausted every possibility of escape , going over and over again the door and the windows , the floor and the walls . 
The solid ersite slabs she could not even scratch the tough Barsoomian glass of the windows would have shattered to nothing less than a heavy sledge in the hands of a strong man . 
The door and the lock were impregnable . 
And they had stripped her of her weapons so that she could not even anticipate the hour of her doom , thus robbing them of the satisfaction of witnessing her last moments . 
When would they come ? Would Astok do the deed with his own hands ? She doubted that he had the courage for it . 
She could not help but compare him with another . 
Instead the figure of the tall and comely Heliumite filled her mind , crowding therefrom all other images . 
And Thuvia of Ptarth , true daughter of Barsoom , found her breath quickening and heart leaping to the memory of this other smile the smile that she would never see again . 
With a little half sob the girl sank to the pile of silks and furs that were tumbled in confusion beneath the east windows , burying her face in her arms . 
In the corridor outside her prison room two men had paused in heated argument . 
I tell you again , Astok , one was saying , that I shall not do this thing unless you be present in the room . 
There was little of the respect due royalty in the tone of the speaker's voice . 
The other , noting it , flushed . 
Do not impose too far upon my friendship for you , Vas Kor , he snapped . 
There is a limit to my patience . 
There is no question of royal prerogative here , returned Vas Kor . 
You ask me to become an assassin in your stead , and against your jeddak's strict injunctions . 
Across the chamber the girl , hearing them enter , rose to her feet and faced them . 
You still prefer death ? asked Astok . 
To YOU , yes , replied the girl coldly . 
The Prince of Dusar turned to Vas Kor and nodded . 
The noble drew his short sword and crossed the room toward Thuvia . 
I prefer to die standing , she replied . 
As you will , said Vas Kor , feeling the point of his blade with his left thumb . 
In the name of Nutus , Jeddak of Dusar ! he cried , and ran quickly toward her . 
In the name of Carthoris , Prince of Helium ! came in low tones from the doorway . 
Vas Kor turned to see the panthan he had recruited at his son's house leaping across the floor toward him . 
The fellow brushed past Astok with an After him , you calot ! Vas Kor wheeled to meet the charging man . 
What means this treason ? he cried . 
Astok , with bared sword , leaped to Vas Kor's assistance . 
The panthan's sword clashed against that of the noble , and in the first encounter Vas Kor knew that he faced a master swordsman . 
Before he half realized the stranger's purpose he found the man between himself and Thuvia of Ptarth , at bay facing the two swords of the Dusarians . 
But he fought not like a man at bay . 
The Heliumite was pressing close upon Vas Kor . 
The noble was bleeding from a dozen wounds . 
Astok saw that he could not for long withstand the cunning craft of that terrible sword hand . 
Courage , Vas Kor ! he whispered in the other's ear . 
Hold him but a moment longer and all will be well , but the balance of the sentence , with Astok , Prince of Dusar , he did not voice aloud . 
Vas Kor , dreaming no treachery , nodded his head , and for a moment succeeded in holding Carthoris at bay . 
It was done so quickly that by no possibility could they have intercepted him . 
There is no time to be lost . 
Astok will be back in a moment with enough warriors to overpower me . 
Quickly would the word have come to his father , and no amount of falsifying could have explained away the facts that the jeddak's investigation would have brought to light . 
Instead Astok was racing madly through a long corridor to reach the door of the tower room before Carthoris and Thuvia left the apartment . 
As fast as he could run Astok entered the main corridor that led to the tower chamber . 
He had no stomach to face that uncanny blade . 
He was almost at the door . 
Around the next turn of the corridor it stood . 
No , they had not left the apartment . 
And then he rounded the turn and came face to face with an auburn haired , white giant . 
A moment later Carthoris and Thuvia entered the corridor from the secret chamber . 
Well , Kar Komak ? asked the Heliumite . 
It is fortunate that you left me here , red man , said the bowman . 
I but just now intercepted one who seemed over anxious to reach this door it was he whom they call Astok , Prince of Dusar . 
Where is he now ? he asked . 
He escaped my blade , and ran down this corridor , replied Kar Komak . 
We must lose no time , then ! exclaimed Carthoris . 
They had come to the chamber at the entrances to the lifts before they met with opposition . 
Here they found a handful of guardsmen , and an officer , who , seeing that they were strangers , questioned their presence in the palace of Astok . 
Beside the stage lay the Thuria , with three warriors on guard . 
Scarce had the Thuria risen from the ways ere a hundred or more fighting men leaped to view upon the landing stage . 
With her bow inclined upward at a dizzy angle , the Thuria shot meteor like into the sky . 
From a dozen points swift patrol boats darted after her , for the scene upon the landing stage above the palace of the Prince of Dusar had not gone unnoticed . 
It was a noble race and a noble fight . 
One against a score now , for other Dusarian craft had joined in the pursuit but Astok , Prince of Dusar , had built well when he built the Thuria . 
None in the navy of his sire possessed a swifter flier no other craft so well armoured or so well armed . 
About the vessel many figures could be seen swarming . 
With the aid of powerful glasses , the Heliumite saw that they were green warriors , and that they were repeatedly charging down upon the crew of the stranded airship . 
The nationality of the latter he could not make out at so great a distance . 
It would be futile to descend , said Carthoris to Thuvia . 
The craft may even be of Dusar she shows no insignia . 
All that we may do is fire upon the hordesmen and as he spoke he stepped to one of the guns and deflected its muzzle toward the green warriors at the ship's side . 
At the first shot from the Thuria those upon the vessel below evidently discovered her for the first time . 
Immediately a device fluttered from the bow of the warship on the ground . 
Thuvia of Ptarth caught her breath quickly , glancing at Carthoris . 
What would Carthoris , Prince of Helium , do ? Scarce had the device broken to the faint breeze ere the bow of the Thuria dropped at a sharp angle toward the ground . 
Can you navigate her ? asked Carthoris of Thuvia . 
I am going to try to take the survivors aboard , he continued . 
It will need both Kar Komak and myself to man the guns while the Kaolians take to the boarding tackle . 
Keep her bow depressed against the rifle fire . 
She can bear it better in her forward armour , and at the same time the propellers will be protected . 
He hurried to the cabin as Thuvia took the control . 
A moment later the boarding tackle dropped from the keel of the Thuria , and from a dozen points along either side stout , knotted leathern lines trailed downward . 
At the same time a signal broke from her bow Prepare to board us . 
A shout arose from the deck of the Kaolian warship . 
Carthoris , who by this time had returned from the cabin , smiled sadly . 
He was about to snatch from the jaws of death the man who stood between himself and the woman he loved . 
Take the port bow gun , Kar Komak , he called to the bowman , and himself stepped to the gun upon the starboard bow . 
They could now feel the sharp shock of the explosions of the green warriors vomited their hail of death and destruction at the sides of the staunch Thuria . 
This paragraph needs to be verified from early editions It was a forlorn hope at best . 
At any moment the repulsive ray tanks might be pierced . 
The men upon the Kaolian ship were battling with renewed hope . 
In the bow stood Kulan Tith , a brave figure fighting beside his brave warriors , beating back the ferocious green men . 
The Thuria came low above the other craft . 
Like a wounded bird she dived suddenly Marsward careening drunkenly . 
Kar Komak stood behind the gun he had been operating , staring with wide eyes at the onrushing hideous green warriors . 
Kar Komak the man ! he shouted . 
Grip yourself ! Remember the days of the glory of the seafarers of Lothar . 
Fight ! Fight , man ! Fight as never man fought before . 
All that remains to us is to die fighting . 
Kar Komak turned toward the Heliumite , a grim smile upon his lips . 
Why should we fight , he asked . 
Against such fearful odds ? There is another way a better way . 
Look ! He pointed toward the companion way that led below deck . 
The green men , a handful of them , had already reached the Thuria's deck , as Carthoris glanced in the direction the Lotharian had indicated . 
Not the bowmen of Tario or Jav , but the bowmen of an odwar of bowmen savage fighting men , eager for the fray . 
The green warriors paused in momentary surprise and consternation , but only for a moment . 
Then with horrid war cries they leaped forward to meet these strange , new foemen . 
A volley of arrows stopped them in their tracks . 
Utan after utan tumbled from the bowels of the Thuria to launch themselves upon the unfortunate green men . 
At last the green men could withstand the onslaught of overwhelming numbers no longer . 
Slowly , at first , they fell back across the ochre plain . 
Kar Komak , standing upon the deck of the Thuria , trembled with excitement . 
At the top of his lungs he voiced the savage war cry of his forgotten day . 
He roared encouragement and commands at his battling utans , and then , as they charged further and further from the Thuria , he could no longer withstand the lure of battle . 
Leaping over the ship's side to the ground , he joined the last of his bowmen as they raced off over the dead sea bottom in pursuit of the fleeing green horde . 
Beyond a low promontory of what once had been an island the green men were disappearing toward the west . 
As the last of them disappeared behind the promontory , Carthoris turned toward Thuvia of Ptarth . 
They have taught me a lesson , these vanishing bowmen of Lothar , he said . 
When they have served their purpose they remain not to embarrass their masters by their presence . 
Kulan Tith and his warriors are here to protect you . 
My acts have constituted the proof of my honesty of purpose . 
Good bye , and he knelt at her feet , raising a bit of her harness to his lips . 
The girl reached out a hand and laid it upon the thick black hair of the head bent before her . 
Softly she asked Where are you going , Carthoris ? With Kar Komak , the bowman , he replied . 
There will be fighting and forgetfulness . 
The girl put her hands before her eyes , as though to shut out some mighty temptation from her sight . 
Stay I love you ! A cough behind them brought both about , and there they saw standing , not two paces from them Kulan Tith , Jeddak of Kaol . 
For a long moment none spoke . 
Then Kulan Tith cleared his throat . 
I could not help hearing all that passed , he said . 
I am no fool , to be blind to the love that lies between you . 
I do not condemn you . 
Rather should I have condemned you had you entered a loveless marriage with me . 
A dead city of ancient Mars . 
An aisle leading to the court room in Helium . 
Its head and mouth are similar in appearance to those of a hippopotamus , except that from the sides of the lower jawbone two mighty horns curve slightly downward toward the front . 
Each ocellus is furnished with its own lid , and the apt can , at will , close as many of the facets of his huge eyes as he chooses . 
A fierce beast of prey that roams the low hills surrounding the dead seas of ancient Mars . 
It is almost hairless , having only a great , bristly mane about its thick neck . 
It has enormous protruding eyes of green . 
MARS Black pirates of Barsoom . 
Men six feet and over in height . 
Have clear cut and handsome features their eyes are well set and large , though a slight narrowness lends them a crafty appearance . 
The iris is extremely black while the eyeball itself is quite white and clear . 
Their skin has the appearance of polished ebony . 
About the size of a Shetland pony and has ten short legs . 
The head bears a slight resemblance to that of a frog , except that the jaws are equipped with three rows of long , sharp tusks . 
Son of John Carter and Dejah Thoris . 
Chief or prince among the First Born . 
Son of Kantos Kan padwar of the Fifth Utan . 
John Carter's Martian name , from the surnames of the first two warrior chieftains he killed . 
High Priest of religious cult . 
Dwar of the Tenth Utan . 
Son of Vas Kor the Dusarian noble . 
Title of Father of Therns . 
The empire of the grandfather of Dejah Thoris . 
Padwar in the navy of Helium . 
Goddess of Death , whose abode is upon the banks of the Lost Sea of Korus . 
Jeddak of the Warhoons of the south . 
Cruiser transport under Vas Kor . 
Padwar in the Helium navy . 
A Martian kingdom in the eastern hemisphere . 
The Lotharian god a huge banth . 
A dead city of ancient Mars . 
The Lost Sea of Dor . 
A jed of lesser Helium . 
A commander , or general . 
Land of the yellow men . 
A black and yellow striped Arctic monster . 
Surrounding the Valley Dor and the Lost Sea of Korus . 
The Zodangan who brought food to John Carter in the pits of Zat Arras . 
Within the courtroom of Helium . 
A race inhabiting the Valley Dor . 
The nose is a ragged , inflamed , circular hole in the centre of the blank face , resembling a fresh bullet wound which has not yet commenced to bleed . 
There is no mouth in the head . 
With the exception of the face , the head is covered by a tangled mass of jet black hair some eight or ten inches in length . 
Each hair is about the thickness of a large angleworm . 
The body , legs and feet are of human shape but of monstrous proportions , the feet being fully three feet long and very flat and broad . 
Overlord of the navy of Ptarth . 
Family name of three Zodangan brothers . 
A Holy Thern of the Tenth Cycle . 
Island in Omean used as a prison . 
Slimy reptiles inhabiting the Sea of Korus . 
Bald faced and about the size of a Hereford bull . 
Has frightful jaws in front and mighty poisoned sting behind . 
The eyes , of myriad facets , cover three fourths of the head , permitting the creature to see in all directions at one and the same time . 
A young green Martian woman . 
An official of the palace . 
A little pet animal among the red Martian women , about the size of a cat . 
An officer of Salensus Oll . 
Grandfather of Dejah Thoris and Jeddak of Helium . 
A green man , chieftain of the Tharks . 
A sphere , or plane of eminence , among the Holy Therns . 
City and name of a green Martian horde . 
It is entirely devoid of hair and is of a dark slate colour and exceedingly smooth and glossy . 
It has a white belly and the legs are shaded from slate at the shoulders and hips to a vivid yellow at the feet . 
The feet are heavily padded and nailless . 
Jed among the green men of Torquas . 
Chief of the lesser Therns . 
In the court room of Helium . 
Mightiest of the five oceans . 
A green horde inimical to Torquas . 
Officer of the guards at submarine pool . 
Kaolian noble dwar of the Kaolian Road . 
A company of one hundred men . 
A community of green men enemy of Thark . 
Dator among the First Born . 
Dator of the guards of Issus . 
Martian city of red men at war with Helium . 
