Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software purchased from Caere Corporation , . 
The Man Between AN INTERNATIONAL ROMANCE By AMELIA E. BARR PART FIRST O LOVE WILL VENTURE IN ! THE MAN BETWEEN CHAPTER I THE thing that I know least about is my beginning . 
Certainly the events that shape our lives are seldom ushered in with pomp or ceremony they steal upon us unannounced , and begin their work without giving any premonition of their importance . 
Consequently Ethel had no idea when she returned home one night from a rather stupid entertainment that she was about to open a new and important chapter of her life . 
It was Saturday night in the January of , verging toward twelve o'clock . 
It is not New York at all , she whispered , it is some magical city that I have seen , but have never trod . 
It will vanish about six o'clock in the morning , and there will be only common streets , full of common people . 
In dreams we can have men as we like them , and women as we want them , and make all the world happy and beautiful . 
She was in no hurry of feeling or movement . 
She had been in a crowd for some hours , and was glad to be quite alone and talk to herself a little . 
For a woman's heart is very talkative , and requires little to make it eloquent in its own way . 
In the midst of this intimate companionship she turned her head , and saw two letters lying upon a table . 
She rose and lifted them . 
How exactly like Dora ! she commented . 
Come to me im mediately whether you are in bed or asleep whether you are sick or well whether it is midnight or high noon come to me immediately . 
Well , Dora , I am going to sleep now , and to morrow is Sunday , and I never know what view father is going to take of Sunday . 
He may ask me to go to church with him , and he may not . 
That is one of our family principles and a girl ought to have a few principles of conduct involving self denial . 
Aunt Ruth says , Life cannot stand erect without self denial , and aunt is usually right but I do wonder what Dora wants ! I cannot imagine what extraordinary news has come . 
I must try and see her to morrow it may be difficult but I must make the effort and with this satisfying resolution she easily fell asleep . 
When she awoke the church bells were ringing and she knew that her father and aunt would have breakfasted . 
The feet did not trouble her . 
It was an accidental sleep over she had not planned it , and circumstances would take care of themselves . 
In any case , she had no fear of rebuke . 
No one was ever cross with Ethel . 
It was a matter of pretty general belief that whatever Ethel did was just right . 
So she dressed herself becomingly in a cloth suit , and , with her plumed hat on her head , went down to see what the day had to offer her . 
The first thing is coffee , and then , all being agreeable , Dora . 
I shall not look further ahead , she thought . 
She took up the reproach herself . 
I am so sorry , Aunt Ruth . 
I only want a cup of coffee and a roll . 
My dear , you cannot go without a proper breakfast . 
What would you like best ? You are so good , Ruth . 
I should like a nice breakfast a breast of chicken and mushrooms , and some hot muffins and marmalade would do . 
How comfortable you look here ! Father , you are buried in newspapers . 
Is anyone going to church ? Ruth ordered the desired breakfast and Mr. Rawdon took out his watch I am afraid you have delayed us too long this morning , Ethel . 
Am I to be the scapegoat ? Now , I do not believe anyone wanted to go to church . 
Ruth had her book , you , the newspapers . 
It is warm and pleasant here , it is cold and windy outside . 
I know what confession would be made , if honesty were the fashion . 
Well , my little girl , honesty is the fashion in this house . 
I believe in going to church . 
Religion is the Mother of Duty , and we should all make a sad mess of life without duty . 
Is not that so , Ruth ? Truth itself , Edward but religion is not going to church and listening to sermons . 
Those who built the old cathedrals of Europe had no idea that sitting in comfortable pews and listening to some man talking was worshiping God . 
Those great naves were intended for men and women to stand or kneel in before God . 
And there were no high or low standing or kneeling places all were on a level before Him . 
I do not care to hear sermons . 
My dear Ruth , sermons are a large fact in our social economy . 
When a million or two are preached every year , they have a strong claim on our attention . 
To use a trade phrase , sermons are firm , and I believe a moderate tax on them would yield an astonishing income . 
See how you talk of them , Edward as if they were a commercial commodity . 
If you respected them I do . 
I grant them a steady pneumatic pressure in the region of morals , and even faith . 
Picture to yourself , Ruth , New York without sermons . 
The dear old city would be like a ship without ballast , heeling over with every wind , and letting in the waters of immorality and scepticism . 
New York expects the very best of everything and when she gets it , she opens her heart and her pocketbook enjoys it , and pays for it . 
That is the truth , Ethel . 
I was thinking of your grandmother Rawdon . 
You have your hat on are you going to see her ? I am going to see Dora Denning . 
I had an urgent note from her last night . 
She says she has extraordinary news' and begs me to come to her immediately . 
I cannot imagine what her news is . 
I saw her Friday afternoon . 
She has a new poodle , or a new lover , or a new way of crimping her hair , suggested Ruth Bayard scornfully . 
She imposes on you , Ethel why do you submit to her selfishness ? I suppose because I have become used to it . 
Four years ago I began to take her part , when the girls teased and tormented her in the schoolroom , and I have big sistered her ever since . 
I suppose we get to love those who make us kind and give us trouble . 
Dora is not perfect , but I like her better than any friend I have . 
And she must like me , for she asks my advice about everything in her life . 
Does she take it ? Yes generally . 
Sometimes I have to make her take it . 
Why does she not go to her ? Mrs. Denning knows nothing about certain subjects . 
I am Dora's social godmother , and she must dress and behave as I tell her to do . 
Poor Mrs. Denning ! I am so sorry for her another cup of coffee , Ruth it is not very strong . 
Yet really , Ruth , she is a most unhappy woman . 
In that little Western town from which they came , she was everybody . 
Her dress there was considered magnificent people begged her for patterns , and regarded her as the very glass of fashion . 
Servants thought it a great privilege to be employed on the Denning place , and she ordered her house and managed her half score of men and maids with pleasant autocracy . 
NOW ! Well , I will tell you how it is , NOW . 
She sits all day in her splendid rooms , or rides out in her car or carriage , and no one knows her , and of course no one speaks to her . 
Mr. Denning has his Wall Street friends And enemies , interrupted Judge Rawdon . 
And enemies ! You are right , father . 
But he enjoys one as much as the other that is , he would as willingly fight his enemies as feast his friends . 
He says a big day in Wall Street makes him alive from head to foot . 
Bryce Denning has got into two clubs , and his money passes him , for he plays , and is willing to love prudently . 
But no one cares about Mrs. Denning . 
Then , her fine English servants take her house out of her hands . 
She is afraid of them . 
Really , her humility and isolation are pitiful . 
I am going to ask grandmother to go and see her . 
Grandmother might take her to church , and get Dr . 
Simpson and Mrs. Simpson to introduce her . 
Her money and adaptability would do the rest . 
There , I have had a good breakfast , though I was late . 
It is not always the early bird that gets chicken and mushrooms . 
Now I will go and see what Dora wants and lifting her furs with a smile , and a Good morning ! equally charming , she disappeared . 
Did you notice her voice , Ruth ? asked Judge Rawdon . 
What a tone there is in her good morning ! There is a tone in every one's good morning , Edward . 
I think people's salutations set to music would reveal their inmost character . 
It goes straight to my heart . 
And to my heart also , Edward . 
I think too there is a measured music , a central time and tune , in every life . 
You are generally right , Ruth , even where I cannot follow you . 
I hope Ethel will be home for dinner . 
I like my Sunday dinner with both of you , and I may bring my mother back with me . 
Then he said Good morning with an intentional cheerfulness , and Ruth was left alone with her book . 
But I confess that the chiefest of all my delights is still the religious . 
She read the words again , then closed her eyes and let the honey of some sacred memory satisfy her soul . 
And in those few minutes of reverie , Ruth Bayard revealed the keynote of her being . 
Nor was her religious character the result of temperament , or of a secluded life . 
Ruth Bayard was a woman of thought and culture , and wise in the ways of the world , but not worldly . 
Her personality was very attractive , she had a good form , an agreeable face , speaking gray eyes , and brown hair , soft and naturally wavy . 
Ten years older than her niece , she had mothered her with a wise and loving patience , and her thoughts never wandered long or far from the girl . 
Consequently , she soon found herself wondering what reason there could be for Dora Denning's urgency . 
In the meantime Ethel had reached her friend's residence a new building of unusual size and very ornate architecture . 
Liveried footmen and waiting women bowed her with mute attention to Miss Denning's suite , an absolutely private arrangement of five rooms , marvelously furnished for the young lady's comfort and delight . 
The windows of her parlor overlooked the park , and she was standing at one of them as Ethel entered the room . 
In a passion of welcoming gladness she turned to her , exclaiming I have been watching for you hours and hours , Ethel . 
I have the most wonderful thing to tell you . 
I am so happy ! So happy ! No one was ever as happy as I am . 
Then Ethel took both her hands , and , as they stood together , she looked intently at her friend . 
How beautiful you are to day , Dora ! Who has worked wonders on you ? Basil Stanhope . 
He loves me ! He loves me ! He told me so last night in the sweetest words that were ever uttered . 
I shall never forget one of them never , as long as I live ! Let us sit down . 
I want to tell you everything . 
I am astonished , Dora ! So was mother , and father , and Bryce . 
No one suspected our affection . 
Mother used to grumble about my going at all hours' to St . 
Jude's church but that was because St . 
Jude's is so very High Church , and mother is a Methodist Episcopal . 
It was the morning and evening prayers she objected to . 
No one had any suspicion of the clergyman . 
Oh , Ethel , he is so handsome ! So good ! So clever ! I think every woman in the church is in love with him . 
Then if he is a good man , he must be very unhappy . 
Of course he is quite ignorant of their admiration , and therefore quite innocent . 
I am the only woman he loves , and he never even remembers me when he is in the sacred office . 
If you could see him come out of the vestry in his white surplice , with his rapt face and prophetic eyes . 
So mystical ! So beautiful ! You would not wonder that I worship him . 
But I do not understand how did you meet him socially ? I met him at Mrs. Taylor's first . 
Then he spoke to me one morning as I came out of church , and the next morning he walked through the park with me . 
And after that all was easy enough . 
What does your father and mother think or rather , what do they say ? Father always says what he thinks , and mother thinks and says what I do . 
This condition simplified matters very much . 
Basil wrote to father , and yesterday after dinner he had an interview with him . 
I expected it , and was quite prepared for any climax that might come . 
You are really very clever , Dora . 
I tried to continue singing and playing , but I could not the notes all ran together , the words were lost . 
I dare say he will bring Mr. Stanhope in here before long . 
Did he ? No. That was Bryce's fault . 
How Bryce happened to be in the house at that hour , I cannot imagine but it seems to be natural for him to drop into any interview where he can make trouble . 
I was angelically dressed , and I felt equal to the interview . 
Do you really mean that you joined the three quarreling men ? Of course . 
Mother was quite calm calm enough to freeze a tempest but she gave father a look he comprehended . 
You should have seen father blaze into anger at his words . 
He told Bryce to remember that Mr. Ben Denning owned the house , and that Bryce had four or five rooms in it by his courtesy . 
I think Mr. Denning acted beautifully . 
What did Bryce say ? He turned to Basil , and said Mr. Stanhope , if you are not a cad , you will leave the house . 
You have no right to intrude yourself into family affairs and family quarrels . 
Basil had seated mother , and was standing with one hand on the back of her chair , and he did not answer Bryce there was no need , father answered quick enough . 
Did Bryce leave the room then ? Yes he went out in a passion , declaring he would never notice me again . 
You know Bryce is a mean little miser ! On the contrary , I thought he was very luxurious and extravagant . 
Where Bryce is concerned , yes toward everyone else his conduct is too mean to consider . 
When are you going to marry him ? In the Spring . 
Father is going to give me some money and I have the fortune Grandmother Cahill left me . 
It has been well invested , and father told me this morning I was a fairly rich little woman . 
Basil has some private fortune , also his stipend we shall do very well . 
Basil's family is one of the finest among the old Boston aristocrats , and he is closely connected with the English Stanhopes , who rank with the greatest of the nobility . 
I wish Americans would learn to rely on their own nobility . 
I am tired of their everlasting attempts to graft on some English noble family . 
No matter how great or clever a man may be , you are sure to read of his descent from some Scottish chief or English earl . 
They can't help their descent , Ethel . 
They need not pin all they have done on to it . 
Often father frets me in the same way . 
If he wins a difficult case , he does it naturally , because he is a Rawdon . 
He is handsome , gentlemanly , honorable , even a perfect horseman , all because , being a Rawdon , he was by nature and inheritance compelled to such perfection . 
It is very provoking , Dora , and if I were you I would not allow Basil to begin a song about the English Stanhopes . 
Aunt Ruth and I get very tired often of the English Rawdons , and are really thankful for the separating Atlantic . 
I don't think I shall feel in that way , Ethel . 
I like the nobility so does father , he says the Dennings are a fine old family . 
You have said that before , and I am sure you are wrong . 
A great many of them are married and are in love with their own husbands and the kind of girls who go to St . 
Jude's are not the kind who marry clergymen . 
Mr. Stanhope's whole income would hardly buy their gloves and parasols . 
I don't think you are pleased that I am going to marry . 
You must not be jealous of Basil . 
I shall love you just the same . 
Under no conditions , Dora , would I allow jealousy to trouble my life . 
All the same , you will not love me after your marriage as you have loved me in the past . 
I shall not expect it . 
Passionate denials of this assertion , reminiscences of the past , assurances for the future followed , and Ethel accepted them without dispute and without faith . 
For a time she wished to keep her lover in a world where no other thought might trouble the thought of Dora . 
Ethel understood her friend's mood , and was rather relieved when her carriage arrived . 
She found Ruth Bayard dressed for dinner , but her father was not present . 
That was satisfactory , for he was always a little impatient when the talk was of lovers and weddings and just then this topic was uppermost in Ethel's mind . 
Ruth , she said , Dora is engaged , and then in a few sentences she told the little romance Dora had lived for the past year , and its happy culmination . 
Setting money aside , I think he will make a very suitable husband . 
What do you think , Ruth ? From what I know of Mr. Stanhope , I should doubt it . 
I am sure he will put his duties before every earthly thing , and I am sure Dora will object to that . 
Then I wonder if Dora is made on a pattern large enough to be the moneyed partner in matrimony . 
I should think Mr. Stanhope was a proud man . 
Dora says he is connected with the English noble family of Stanhopes . 
We shall certainly have all the connections of the English nobility in America very soon now but why does he marry Dora ? Is it her money ? I think not . 
I have heard from various sources some fine things of Basil Stanhope . 
There are many richer girls than Dora in St . 
I dare say some one of them would have married him . 
In their creed a husband is a banker , not a man to be loved and cared for . 
You know how much of a banker Mr. Stanhope could be . 
Bryce Denning is very angry at what he evidently considers his sister's mesalliance . 
If Mr. Stanhope is connected with the English Stanhopes , the mesalliance must be laid to his charge . 
Indeed the Dennings have some pretenses to good lineage , and Bryce spoke of his sister disgracing his family by her contemplated marriage . 
His family ! My dear Ethel , his grandfather was a manufacturer of tin tacks . 
And now that we have got as far away as the Denning's grandfather , suppose we drop the subject . 
Content I am a little tired of the clan Denning that is their original name Dora says . 
I will go now and dress for dinner . 
Then Ruth rose and looked inquisitively around the room . 
Is it about grandmother ? It is news rather than a secret , Ethel . 
And grandmother has a good deal to do with it , for it is about her family the Mostyns . 
Oh ! The tone of Ethel's Oh ! was not encouraging , and Ruth's look of interest held in abeyance was just as chilling . 
She married George Rawdon , and they came to New York in . 
They had a pretty house on the Bowling Green and lived very happily there . 
I was born in , the youngest of their children . 
You know that I sign my name Edward M. Rawdon it is really Edward Mostyn Rawdon . 
Frederick Mostyn , her grand nephew , is coming to New York , and Squire Rawdon , of Rawdon Manor , writes to recommend the young man to our hospitality . 
But you surely do not intend to invite him here , Edward . 
I think that would not do . 
He is going to the Holland House . 
But he is our kinsman , and therefore we must be hospitable . 
I have been trying to count the kinship . 
It is out of my reckoning , said Ethel . 
I hope at least he is nice and presentable . 
The Mostyns are a handsome family . 
And Squire Rawdon speaks very well of Mr. Mostyn . 
He has taken the right side in politics , and is likely to make his mark . 
They were always great sportsmen , and I dare say this representative of the family is a good looking fellow , well mannered , and perfectly dressed . 
If his clothes fit him he will be an English wonder . 
I have seen lots of Englishmen they are all frights as to trousers and vests . 
The Caylers were weary to death of them . 
And yet , said Ruth , they sang songs of triumph when Lou Cayler married him . 
That was a different thing . 
Lou would make him get fits' and stop wearing sloppy , baggy arrangements . 
And I do not suppose the English lord has now a single peculiarity left , unless it be his constitutional walk that , of course . 
I have heard English babies get out of their cradles to take a constitutional . 
During this tirade Ruth had been thinking . 
Edward , she asked , why does Squire Rawdon introduce Mr. Mostyn ? Their relationship cannot be worth counting . 
There you are wrong , Ruth . 
He spoke with a little excitement . 
Englishmen never deny matrimonial relationships , if they are worthy ones . 
Mostyn and Rawdon are bound together by many a gold wedding ring we reckon such ties relationships . 
Squire Raw don lost his son and his two grandsons a year ago . 
Perhaps this young man may eventually stand in their place . 
The Squire is nearly eighty years old he is the last of the English Rawdons at least of our branch of it . 
You suppose this Mr. Mostyn may become Squire of Rawdon Manor ? He may , Ruth , but it is not certain . 
There is a large mortgage on the Manor . 
Oh ! Both girls made the ejaculation at the same moment , and in both voices there was the same curious tone of speculation . 
It was a cry after truth apprehended , but not realized . 
Mr. Rawdon remained silent he was debating with himself the advisability of further confidence , but he came quickly to the conclusion that enough had been told for the present . 
Turning to Ethel , he said I suppose girls have a code of honor about their secrets . 
Is Dora Denning's extraordinary news' shut up in it ? Oh , no , father . 
She is going to be married . 
Who is the man ? Reverend Mr. Stanhope . 
I never heard anything more ridiculous . 
That saintly young priest ! Why , Dora will be tired to death of him in a month . 
And he ? Poor fellow ! Why poor fellow ? He is very much in love with her . 
It is hard to understand . 
Jerome's love pale with midnight prayer' would be more believable than the butterfly Dora . 
Goodness , gracious ! The idea of that man being in love ! It pulls him down a bit . 
I thought he never looked at a woman . 
Do you know him , father ? As many people know him by good report . 
I know that he is a clergyman who believes what he preaches . 
I know a Wall Street broker who left St . 
Jude's church because Mr. Stanhope's sermons on Sunday put such a fine edge on his conscience that Mondays were dangerous days for him to do business on . 
And whatever Wall Street financiers think of the Bible personally , they do like a man who sticks to his colors , and who holds intact the truth committed to him . 
And he is going to marry ! Going to marry Dora Denning ! It is extraordinary news , indeed ! Ethel was a little offended at such unusual surprise . 
I think you don't quite understand Dora , she said . 
It will be Mr. Stanhope's fault if she is not led in the right way for if he only loves and pets her enough he may do all he wishes with her . 
I know , I have both coaxed and ordered her for four years sometimes one way is best , and sometimes the other . 
How is a man to tell which way to take ? What do her parents think of the marriage ? They are pleased with it . 
They are only lovers yet , Edward , said Ruth . 
It is not fair , or kind , to even think of divorce . 
My dear Ruth , the fashionable girl of today accepts marriage with the provision of divorce . 
Dora is hardly one of that set . 
I hope she may keep out of it , but marriage will give her many opportunities . 
Well , I am sorry for the young priest . 
He isn't fit to manage a woman like Dora Denning . 
I am afraid he will get the worst of it . 
I think you are very unkind , father . 
Dora is my friend , and I know her . 
She is a girl of intense feelings and very affectionate . 
And she has dissolved all her life and mind in Mr. Stanhope's life and mind , just as a lump of sugar is dissolved in water . 
Can you not find a more poetic simile , Ethel ? It will do . 
This is an age of matter a material symbol is the proper thing . 
I am glad to hear she has dissolved her mind in Stanhope's , said Judge Rawdon . 
Dora's intellect in itself is childish . 
What did the man see in her that he should desire her ? Father , you never can tell how much brains men like with their beauty . 
Very little will do generally . 
And Dora has beauty great beauty no one can deny that . 
I think Dora is giving up a great deal . 
Well , Ethel , the remedy is in the lady's hands . 
She is not forced to marry , and the slavery that is voluntary is no hardship . 
Now , my dear , I have a case to look over , and you must excuse me to night . 
To morrow we shall know more concerning Mr. Mostyn , and it is easier to talk about certainties than probabilities . 
But if conversation ceased about Mr. Mostyn , thought did not for , a couple of hours afterwards , Ethel tapped at her aunt's door and said , Just a moment , Ruth . 
Yes , dear , what is it ? Did you notice what father said about the mortgage on Rawdon Manor Yes . 
He seemed to know all about it . 
I think he does know all about it . 
Do you think he holds it ? He may do so it is not unlikely . 
Oh ! Then Mr. Fred Mostyn , if he is to inherit Rawdon , would like the mortgage removed ? Of course he would . 
And the way to remove it would be to marry the daughter of the holder of the mortgage ? It would be one way . 
So he is coming to look me over . 
I am a matrimonial possibility . 
How do you like that idea , Aunt Ruth ? I do not entertain it for a moment . 
Mr. Mostyn may not even know of the mortgage . 
When men mortgage their estates they do not make confidences about the matter , or talk it over with their friends . 
They always conceal and hide the transaction . 
If your father holds the mortgage , I feel sure that no one but himself and Squire Rawdon know anything about it . 
Don't look at the wrong side of events , Ethel be content with the right side of life's tapestry . 
Why are you not asleep ? What are you worrying about ? Nothing , only I have not heard all I wanted to hear . 
And perhaps that is good for you . 
I shall go and see grandmother first thing in the morning . 
I would not if I were you . 
You cannot make any excuse she will not see through . 
Your father will call on Mr. Mostyn to morrow , and we shall get unprejudiced information . 
Oh , I don't know that , Ruth . 
Father is intensely American three hundred and sixty four days and twenty three hours in a year , and then in the odd hour he will flare up Yorkshire like a conflagration . 
English , you mean ? No. Yorkshire IS England to grandmother and father . 
They don't think anything much of the other counties , and people from them are just respectable foreigners . 
You may depend upon it , whatever grandmother says of Mr. Fred Mostyn , father will believe it , too . 
Your father always believes whatever your grandmother says . 
I think I shall go to grandmother in the morning . 
I know how to manage her . 
I shall meet her squarely with the truth , and acknowledge that I am dying with curiosity about Mr. Mostyn . 
And she will tease and lecture you , say you are not sweetheart high yet , only a little maid , and so on . 
Far better go and talk with Dora . 
To morrow she will need you , I am sure . 
Ethel , I am very sleepy . 
Good night again , dear . 
Good night ! Then with a sudden animation , I know what to do , I shall tell grandmother about Dora's marriage . 
It is all plain enough now . 
And this good night , though dropping sweetly into the minor third , had yet on its final inflection something of the pleasant hopefulness of its major key it expressed anticipation and satisfaction . 
What happened in the night session she could not tell , but she awoke with a positive disinclination to ask a question about Mr. Mostyn . 
I have received orders from some one , she said to Ruth I simply do not care whether I ever see or hear of the man again . 
I am going to Dora , and I may not come home until late . 
You know they will depend upon me for every suggestion . 
Then about nine o'clock Mr. Stanhope called , and Ethel found it pleasant enough to watch the lovers and listen to Mrs. Denning's opinions of what had been already planned . 
And the next day she seemed to be so absolutely necessary to the movement of the marriage preparations , that it was nearly dark before she was permitted to return home . 
It was but a short walk between the two houses , and Ethel was resolved to have the refreshment of the exercise . 
Ruth , darling ! Ethel ! I have just sent for you to come home . 
Then she rose and took Ethel in her arms . 
Fisher the Doctor is not certain . 
And I see that you are already dressed . 
How handsome you look ! That black lace dress , with the dull gold ornaments , is all right . 
I felt as if jewels would be overdress for a family dinner . 
Yes , but jewels always snub men so completely . 
It is not altogether that they represent money they give an air of royalty , and a woman without jewels is like an uncrowned queen she does not get the homage . 
I can't account for it , but there it is . 
I shall wear my sapphire necklace . 
What did father say about our new kinsman ? Very little . 
It was impossible to judge from his words what he thought . 
I fancied that he might have been a little disappointed . 
You will be dressed in an hour ? In less time . 
Shall I wear white or blue ? Pale blue and white flowers . 
There are some white violets in the library . 
I have a red rose . 
We shall contrast each other very well . 
What is it all about ? Do we really care how we look in the eyes of this Mr. Mostyn ? Of course we care . 
We should not be women if we did not care . 
We must make some sort of an impression , and naturally we prefer that it should be a pleasant one . 
If we consider the mortgage Nonsense ! The mortgage is not in it . 
Tell Mattie to bring me a cup of tea upstairs . 
I will be dressed in an hour . 
The tea was brought and drank , and Ethel fell asleep while her maid prepared every item for her toilet . 
Then she spoke to her mistress , and Ethel awakened , as she always did , with a smile nature's surest sign of a radically sweet temper . 
She felt her own beauty and was glad of it , and with a laughing word of pleasure went down to the parlor . 
Madam Rawdon was standing before the fire , but when she heard the door open she turned her face toward it . 
Come here , Ethel Rawdon , she said , and let me have a look at you . 
And Ethel went to her side , laid her hand lightly on the old lady's shoulder and kissed her cheek . 
You do look middling well , she continued , and your dress is about as it should be . 
I like a girl to dress like a girl still , the sapphires . 
Are they necessary ? You would not say corals , would you , grandmother ? I have those you gave me when I was three years old . 
Keep your wit , my dear , for this evening . 
I should not wonder but you might need it . 
Fred Mostyn is rather better than I expected . 
It was a great pleasure to see him . 
It was like a bit of my own youth back again . 
When you are a very old woman there are few things sweeter , Ethel . 
But you are not an old woman , grandmother . 
In spite of her seventy five years she stood erect at the side of her grand daughter . 
Her abundant hair was partly gray , but the gray mingled with the little oval of costly lace that lay upon it , and the effect was soft and fair as powdering . 
Yes , in Rachel Rawdon's heart the well springs of love and life lay too deep for the frosts of age to touch . 
She would be eternally young before she grew old . 
She sat down as Ethel spoke , and drew the girl to her side . 
I hear your friend is going to marry , she said . 
Are you sorry ? Perhaps not . 
Dora has been a care to me for four years . 
I hope her husband may manage her as well as I have done . 
Are you afraid he will not ? I cannot tell , grandmother . 
I see all Dora's faults . 
Mr. Stanhope is certain that she has no faults . 
Hitherto she has had her own way in everything . 
Excepting myself , no one has ventured to contradict her . 
But , then , Dora is over head and ears in love , and love , it is said , makes all things easy to bear and to do . 
There is a still more amazing thing , Madam , answered Ruth that is that men should be so foolish as to think , or hope , they perhaps might do so . 
Old fashioned women used to manage it some way or other , Ruth . 
But the old fashioned woman was a very soft hearted creature , and , maybe , it was just as well that she was . 
It is the most hideous of walks imaginable . 
But men stamp and stride in the same way , grandmother . 
A long stride suits a man's anatomy well enough it does not suit a woman's she feels every stride she takes , I'll warrant her . 
If she plays golf My dear Ethel , there is no need for her to play golf . 
It is a man's game and was played for centuries by men only . 
In Scotland , the home of golf , it was not thought nice for women to even go to the links , because of the awful language they were likely to hear . 
If we could only have some new men ! sighed Ethel . 
The lover of to day is just what a girl can pick up he has no wit and no wisdom and no illusions . 
He talks of his muscles and smells of cigarettes perhaps of whisky and at these words , Judge Rawdon , accompanied by Mr. Fred Mostyn , entered the room . 
So you do not enjoy traveling ? said Judge Rawdon as if continuing a conversation . 
I think it the most painful way of taking pleasure , sir that is the actual transit . 
And sleeping cars and electric lighted steamers and hotels do not mitigate the suffering . 
If Dante was writing now he might depict a constant round of personally conducted tours in Purgatory . 
I should think the punishment adequate for any offense . 
But I like arriving at places . 
New York has given me a lot of new sensations to day , and I have forgotten the transit troubles already . 
He talked well and temperately , and yet Ethel could not avoid the conclusion that he was a man of positive character and uncompromising prejudices . 
And she also felt a little disappointed in his personality , which contradicted her ideal of a Yorkshire squire . 
For he was small and slender in stature , and his face was keen and thin , from the high cheek bones to the sharp point of the clean shaven chin . 
Yet it was an interesting face , for the brows were broad and the eyes bright and glancing . 
Ethel could find no fault in it , except the monocle which he did not use once during the evening , and which she therefore decided was a quite idle and unhandsome adjunct . 
One feature of his character was definite he was a home loving man . 
He liked the society of women with whom he could be familiar , and he preferred the company of books and music to fashionable social functions . 
This pleasant habit of domesticity was illustrated during the evening by an accidental incident a noisy , mechanical street organ stopped before the windows , and in a blatant manner began its performance . 
Conversation was paralyzed by the intrusion and when it was removed Judge Rawdon said What a democratic , leveling , aggressive thing music is ! It insists on being heard . 
It is always in the way , it thrusts itself upon you , whether you want it or not . 
You go to see pictures when you wish to . 
Mostyn did not notice the criticism on music itself , but added in a soft , disapproving way That man has no music in him . 
Do you know that was one of Mendelssohn's delicious dreams . 
I think I astonished them a little , he mused , and I wonder what that pretty , cousin of mine thought of the music and the musician . 
I fancy we shall be good friends she is proud that is no fault and she has very decided opinions which might be a great fault but I think I rather astonished them . 
To such reflections he stepped rather pompously down the avenue , not at all influenced by any premonition that his satisfactory feelings might be imperfectly shared . 
Yet silence was the first result of his departure . 
Judge Rawdon took out his pocketbook and began to study its entries . 
Ruth Bayard rose and closed the piano . 
Ethel lifted a magazine , while it was Madam who finally asked in an impatient tone What do you think of Frederick ? I suppose , Edward , you have an opinion . 
Isn't he a very clever man ? I should not wonder if he were , mother , clever to a fault . 
I never heard a young man talk better . 
He talked a great deal , but then , you know , he was not on his oath . 
I'll warrant every word he said . 
Your warrant is fine surety , mother , but I am not bound to believe all I hear . 
You women can please yourselves . 
And with these words he left the women to find out , if they could , what manner of man their newly found kinsman might be . 
CHAPTER III ONE of the most comfortable things about Frederick Mostyn was his almost boyish delight in the new life which New York opened to him . 
Every phase of it was so fresh , so unusual , that his Yorkshire existence at Mostyn Hall gave him no precedents and no experiences by which to measure events . 
The simplest things were surprising or interesting . 
He was never weary of taking those exciting lifts to the top of twenty three story buildings and admiring the wonderful views such altitudes gave him . 
It gave him a sense of dreamland quite as much as that of reality . 
The Yorkshire moors and words grew dull and dreary in his memory even the thought of the hunting field could not lure his desire . 
He walked from the Park to the Battery and examined all that caught his eye . 
He had a history of the city and sought out every historical site he even went over to Weehawken , and did his best to locate the spot where Burr and Hamilton fought . 
He admired Hamilton , but after reading all about the two men , gave his sympathy to Burr , a clever , unlucky little chap , he said . 
But in these outside enthusiasms he did not forget his personal relations . 
It took him but a few days to domesticate himself in both the Rawdon houses . 
When the weather drove him off the streets , he found a pleasant refuge either with Madam or with Ethel and Miss Bayard . 
Ethel he saw less frequently than he liked she was nearly always with Dora Denning , but with Ruth Bayard he contracted a very pleasant friendship . 
He told her all his adventures and found her more sympathetic than Madam ever pretended to be . 
Then she told herself that if he was good to her , she would buy him one to be proud of before he returned to Yorkshire . 
It was at the Elite Club Bryce Denning first saw him . 
He came in with Shaw McLaren , a young man whose acquaintance was considered as most definitely satisfactory . 
Vainly Bryce Denning had striven to obtain any notice whatever from McLaren , whose exclusiveness was proverbial . 
Who then was this stranger he appeared so anxious to entertain ? His look of supreme satisfaction , his high bred air , and peculiar intonation quickly satisfied Bryce as to his nationality . 
English , of course , he reflected , and probably one of the aristocrats that Shaw meets at his recently ennobled sister's place . 
He is forever bragging about them . 
I must find out who Shaw's last British lion is , and just as he arrived at this decision the person appeared who could satisfy him . 
That man ! was the reply to the inevitable question why , he is some relative of the old lady Rawdon . 
He is staying at the Holland House , but spends his time with the Rawdons , old and young the young one is a beauty , you know . 
Do you think so ? She is a good deal at our house . 
I suppose the fellow has some pretentions . 
Judge Rawdon will be a man hard to satisfy with a son in law . 
I fancy his daughter will take that subject in her own hand . 
She looks like a girl of spirit and this man is not as handsome as most Englishmen . 
Not if you judge him by bulk , but women want more than mere bulk he has an air of breeding you can't mistake , and he looks clever . 
I have heard him spoken of . 
He was now resolved to make up his quarrel with Dora . 
Through Dora he could manage to meet Mostyn socially , and he smiled in anticipation of that proud moment when he should parade in his own friendly leash McLaren's new British lion . 
He went straight to his sister's apartments and touched the bell quite gently . 
Her maid opened the door and looked annoyed and uncertain . 
Dora had , however , talked all her anger away she wished now to be friends with her brother . 
She knew that his absence from her wedding would cause unpleasant notice , and she had other reasons , purely selfish , all emphasizing the advantages of a reconciliation . 
I know , Dodo forgive me ! It was all my fault . 
I think I was jealous of you it was hard to find that you loved a stranger better than you loved me . 
Kiss me , and be my own sweet , beautiful sister again . 
I shall try to like all the people you like for your sake , you know . 
She sat and talked and planned and told him all that had been done and all that was yet to do . 
And Bryce never once named either Ethel or Mr. Mostyn . 
But , somehow , things happen for those who are content to leave their desires to contingencies and accidentals . 
After breakfast he sat down , lit his cigar and waited . 
But you had Ethel Rawdon , he said . 
I thought she was everybody rolled into one . 
Oh , Ethel doesn't know as much as she thinks she does , said Mrs. Denning . 
I don't agree with lots of things she advises . 
Then take my advice , mother . 
Oh , Bryce , it is the best of all . 
Bryce does not know about dress and such things , mother . 
Ethel finds out what she does not know . 
Bryce cannot go to modistes and milliners with me . 
Oh , mother ! Girls will say anything , Dora , to hide a love affair . 
Why does she never bring him here to call ? Because I asked her not . 
I do not want to make new friends , especially English ones , now . 
I am so busy all day , and of course my evenings belong to Basil . 
Yes , and there is no one to talk to me . 
Ethel and the Englishman would pass an hour or two very nicely , and your father is very fond of foreigners . 
Of course , at this time , Dora's wishes and engagements are the most important . 
I have seen the young man at the club with Shaw McLaren and about town with Judge Rawdon and others . 
He seems a nice little fellow . 
Jack Lacy wanted to introduce me to him yesterday , but I told him I could live without the honor . 
Of course , if Dora feels like having him here that is a very dif ferent matter . 
He is certainly distinguished looking , and would give an air to the wedding . 
Is he handsome , Bryce ? Yes and no . 
Women would rave about him men would think him finical and dandified . 
As he was sauntering down the avenue he met Ethel and he turned and walked back with her to the Denning house . 
If I suppose you have found a wife or a fortune , shall I be wrong ? You come near the truth I have found a sister . 
Do you know I am very fond of Dora and we have made up our quarrel ? Then Ethel looked at him again . 
She did not believe him . 
She was sure that Dora was not the only evoker of the unbounded satisfaction in Bryce Denning's face and manner . 
But she let the reason pass she had no likely arguments to use against it . 
And that day Mrs. Denning , with a slight air of injury , opened the subject of Mr. Mostyn's introduction to them . 
She thought Ethel had hardly treated the Dennings fairly . 
Everyone was wondering they had not met him . 
When the reproach took this tone there seemed to be only one thing for Ethel to say or to do but that one thing was exactly what she did not say or do . 
She took up Mrs. Denning's reproach and complained that her relative and friend had been purposely and definitely ignored . 
She thought the whole Rawdon family had the best of reasons for feeling hurt at the neglect . 
This view of the case had not entered Mrs. Denning's mind . 
She was quickly sorry and apologetic for Dora's selfishness and her own thoughtlessness , and Ethel was not difficult to pacify . 
There was then no duty so imperative as the arrangement of a little dinner for Mr. Mostyn . 
We will make it quite a family affair , said Mrs. Denning , then we can go to the opera afterwards . 
Shall I call on Mr. Mostyn at the Holland House ? she asked anxiously . 
I will ask Bryce to call , said Dora . 
Bryce will do anything to please me now , mother . 
In this way , Bryce Denning's desires were all arranged for him , and that evening Dora made her request . 
Mind ! he added , I think he is as proud as Lucifer , and I may get nothing for my civility but the excuse of a previous engagement . 
But Bryce Denning expected much more than this , and he got all that he expected . 
The young men had a common ground to meet on , and they quickly became as intimate as ever Frederick Mostyn permitted himself to be with a stranger . 
In these excursions the young men became in a way familiar , though neither of them ever told the other the real feelings of their hearts or the real aim of their lives . 
The proposed dinner took place ten days after its suggestion . 
There was nothing remarkable in the function itself all millionaires have the same delicacies and the same wines , and serve these things with precisely the same ceremonies . 
And , as a general thing , the company follow rigidly ordained laws of conversation . 
Stories about public people , remarks about the weather and the opera , are in order but original ideas or decided opinions are unpardonable social errors . 
Yet even these commonplace events may contain some element that shall unexpectedly cut a life in two , and so change its aims and desires as to virtually create a new character . 
It was Frederick Mostyn who in this instance underwent this great personal change a change totally unexpected and for which he was absolutely unprepared . 
Mostyn decided that he was naturally impatient for the presence of his fiancee , whose delayed entrance he perceived was also annoying Ethel . 
Then there was a slight movement , a sudden silence , and Mostyn saw Stanhope's face flush and turn magically radiant . 
Mechanically he followed his movement and the next moment his eyes met Fate , and Love slipped in between . 
Dora was there , a fairy like vision in pale amber draperies , softened with silk lace . 
Diamonds were in her wonderfully waved hair and round her fair white neck . 
They clasped her belt and adorned the instep of her little amber silk slippers . 
Miss Bayard was to be his companion , and with some effort and a few indistinct words he gave her his arm . 
She asked if he was ill , and when a shake of the head answered the query , she covered the few minutes of his disconcertion with her conversation . 
He looked at her gratefully and gathered his personality together . 
For Love had come to him like a two edged sword , dividing the flesh and the spirit , and he longed to cry aloud and relieve the sweet torture of the possession . 
Reaction , however , came quickly , and with it a wonderful access of all his powers . 
The sweet , strong wine of Love went to his brain like celestial nectar . 
It was a feast full of good things , but its spirit was not able to bear transition . 
None of the party understood this result , and yet all were , in their way , affected by the sudden fall of mental temperature . 
Mr. Denning went to his library and took out his private ledger , a penitential sort of reading which he relished after moods of any kind of enjoyment . 
Mrs. Denning selected Ethel Rawdon for her text of disillusion . 
She thought Ethel had been a little jealous of Dora's dress , and Dora said , It was one of her surprises , and Ethel thought she ought to know everything . 
And he understood the promise , and with a look of passionate affection raised the little jeweled pledge and kissed it . 
Perhaps no one was more affected by this chill , critical after hour than Miss Bayard and Ethel . 
Mostyn accompanied them home , but he was depressed , and his courtesy had the air of an obligation . 
He said he had a sudden headache , and was not sorry when the ladies bid him good night on the threshold . 
Indeed , he felt that he must have refused any invitation to lengthen out the hours with them or anybody . 
CHAPTER IV WHAT do you think of the evening , Aunt Ruth ? Ethel was in her aunt's room , comfortably wrapped in a pink kimono , when she asked this question . 
What do you think of it , Ethel ? I am not sure . 
The dinner was well served . 
Who was the little dark man you talked with , aunt ? He was a Mr. Marriot , a banker , and a friend of Bryce Denning's . 
He is a fresh addition to society , I think . 
He had the word gold' always on his lips and he believes in it as good men believe in God . 
The general conversation annoyed him he could not understand men being entertained by it . 
They were , though , for once Jamie Sayer forgot to talk about his pictures . 
Is that the name of your escort ? Yes . 
And is he an artist ? A second rate one . 
He is painting Dora's picture , and is a great favorite of Mrs. Denning's . 
A strange , wild looking man . 
When I saw him first he was lying , dislocated , over his ottoman rather than sitting on it . 
Oh , that is a part of his affectations . 
He is really a childish , self conscious creature , with a very decided dash of vulgarity . 
He only tries to look strange and wild , and he would be delighted if he knew you had thought him so . 
I was glad to see Claudine Jeffrys . 
How slim and graceful she is ! And , pray , who is that Miss Ullman ? A very rich woman . 
She has Bryce under consideration . 
Many other men have been in the same position , for she is sure they all want her money and not her . 
I saw you talking to her , aunt . 
I did not enjoy her company . 
She is so mercilessly realistic , she takes all the color out of life . 
Everything about her , even her speech , is sharp lined as the edge of a knife . 
She could make Bryce's life very miserable . 
Perhaps it might turn out the other way . 
Bryce Denning has capacities in the same line . 
I should say he was a man of very strong and tender feelings . 
And he gives all the strength and tenderness of his feelings to Dora . 
Who directed Dora's dress this evening ? Herself or her maid . 
I had nothing to do with it . 
In fact , Fred Hostyn Fell in love with her . 
Fell , that is the word fell prostrate . 
Usually the lover of to day walks very timidly and carefully into the condition , step by step , and calculating every step before he takes it . 
Fred plunged headlong into the whirling vortex . 
I never witnessed the accident before . 
I have heard of men getting wounds and falls , and developing new faculties in consequence , but we saw the phenomenon take place this evening . 
Love , if it be love , is known in a moment . 
man who never saw the sun before would know it was the sun . 
In Fred's case it was an instantaneous , impetuous passion , flaming up at the sight of such unexpected beauty a passion that will probably fade as rapidly as it rose . 
Fred is not that kind of a man , aunt . 
He does not like every one and everything , but whoever or whatever he does like becomes a lasting part of his life . 
Even the old chairs and tables at Mostyn are held as sacred objects by him , though I have no doubt an American girl would trundle them off to the garret . 
It is the same with the people . 
He actually regards the Rawdons as belonging in some way to the Mostyns and I do not believe he has ever been in love before . 
Nonsense ! He was so surprised by the attack . 
Dora is nearly a married woman , and Mostyn knows it . 
Nearly may make all the difference . 
When Dora is married he will be compelled to accept the inevitable and make the best of it . 
When Dora is married he will idealize her , and assure himself that her marriage is the tragedy of both their lives . 
Dora will give him no reason to suppose such a thing . 
I am sure she will not . 
She is too much in love with Mr. Stanhope to notice any other lover . 
You are mistaken , Ethel . 
It was , to me , a humiliating spectacle . 
How could she do it ? I am sure Dora meant no wrong . 
It is so natural for a lovely girl to show off a little . 
She will marry and forget Fred Mostyn lives . 
And Fred will forget ? Fred will not forget . 
Then I shall be very sorry for your father and grandmother . 
What have they to do with Fred marrying ? A great deal . 
Fred has been so familiar and homely the last two or three weeks , that they have come to look upon him as a future member of the family . 
It has been Cousin Ethel' and Aunt Ruth' and even grandmother' and Cousin Fred , and no objections have been made to the use of such personal terms . 
I think your father hopes for a closer tie between you and Fred Mostyn than cousinship . 
Whatever might have been is over . 
Nothing on earth could make me submit to such an indignity . 
I do not suppose , Ethel , that any wife is the first object of her husband's love . 
Of course , Fred Mostyn will have to marry . 
Of course , he will make a duty of the event . 
The line of Mostyns must be continued . 
And that is all Fred Mostyn's wife will ever be to him , unless he marries Dora . 
But that very supposition implies tragedy , and it is most unlikely . 
Yes , for Dora is a good little thing . 
She has never been familiar with vice . 
She has even a horror of poor women divorced from impossible husbands . 
She believes her marriage will be watched by the angels , and recorded in heaven . 
Basil has instructed her to regard marriage as a holy sacrament , and I am sure he does the same . 
Then why should we forecast evil to their names ? As for Cousin Fred , I dare say he is comfortably asleep . 
I am sure he is not . 
I believe he is smoking and calling himself names for not having come to New York last May , when father first invited him . 
Had he done so things might have been different . 
When Good Fortune calls , and the called will not when they may , then , when they will' Good Fortune has become Misfortune . 
Welcome a pleasure or a gain at once , or don't answer it at all . 
It was on this rock , Ethel , the bark that carried my love went to pieces . 
I know yes , I know ! My dear aunt ! It is all right now , dear but things might have been that are not . 
As to Dora , I think she may be trusted with Basil Stanhope . 
He is one of the best and handsomest men I ever saw , and he has now rights in Dora's love no one can tamper with . 
Mostyn is an honorable man . 
Your father has ordered the carriage to be at the Holland House at five o'clock . 
It can call for you first , and then go to the Holland House . 
But do not keep your father waiting . 
If he is not at the entrance give your card to the outside porter he will have it sent up to Fred's apartments . 
Then father is calling on Fred ? What for ? Is he sick ? Oh , no , business of some kind . 
I hope you will have a pleasant walk . 
There is no doubt of it . 
Indeed , she was radiant with its exhilaration when she reached Gramercy Park . 
As she ran up the steps of the big , old fashioned house she saw Madam at the window picking up some dropped stitches in her knitting . 
Madam saw her at the same moment , and the old face and the young face both alike kindled with love , as well as with happy anticipation of coveted intercourse . 
I am so glad to see you , darling Granny . 
I could not wait until to morrow . 
And why should you , child ? I have been watching for you all morning . 
I want to hear about the Denning dinner . 
I suppose you went ? Yes , we went we had to . 
Dinners in strange houses are a common calamity I can't expect to be spared what everyone has to endure . 
Don't be affected , Ethel . 
You like going out to dinner . 
Of course , you do ! It is only natural , considering . 
I like dances and theaters and operas , but I don't like dinners . 
However , the Denning dinner was a grand exception . 
It gave me and the others a sensation . 
Major domo Parkinson saw to that . 
If he had arranged it for his late employer , the Duke of Richmond , it could not have been finer . 
There was not a break anywhere . 
How many were present ? Just a dozen . 
Mr. Denning and Bryce , of course . 
Who were the others ? Mr. Stanhope , of course . 
Granny , he wore his clerical dress . 
It made him look so remarkable . 
A clergyman ought to look different from other men . 
I do not believe Basil Stanhope , having assumed the dress of a servant of God , would put it off one hour for any social exigency . 
All right , dear Granny you always make things clear to me , yet I meet lots of clergymen in evening dress . 
Then they ought not to be clergymen . 
They ought not to wear coats in which they can hold any kind of opinions . 
Who was your companion ? Jamie Sayer . 
I never heard of the man . 
He is an artist , and is painting Dora's likeness . 
He is getting on now , but in the past , like all artists , he has suffered a deal . 
It is good for genius to suffer . 
End that story , it is long enough . 
Do you know Miss Ullman ? I have heard of her . 
Who has not ? She has Bryce Denning on trial now . 
If he marries her I shall pity him . 
Pity him ! Not I , indeed ! He would have his just reward . 
Like to like , and Amen to it . 
Then there was Claudine Jeffrys , looking quite ethereal , but very lovely . 
Her lover was killed in Cuba , and she has been the type of faithful grief ever since . 
She looks it and dresses it to perfection . 
And feels it ? Perhaps she does . 
I am not skilled in the feelings of pensive , heart broken maidens . 
But her case is a very common one . 
Are any poor creatures more jeered at than widows ? No man believes they are grieving for the loss of their husbands . 
Then why should they all sympathize with Claudine about the loss of a lover ? Perhaps lovers are nicer than husbands . 
I have known a few good husbands . 
Your grandfather was one , your father another . 
But you have said nothing about Fred . 
Did he look handsome ? Did he make a sensation ? Was he a cousin to be proud of ? Indeed , Granny , Fred was the whole party . 
He is not naturally handsome , but he has distinction , and he was well dressed . 
And I never heard anyone talk as he did . 
Mr. Denning asked me quietly afterwards what university he was educated at . 
I think he took it all as education , and had some wild ideas of finishing Bryce in a similar manner . 
I told you so , she said proudly . 
The Mostyns have intellect as well as land . 
There are no stupid Mostyns . 
I hope you asked him to play . 
I think his way of handling a piano would have taught them a few things Russians and Poles know nothing about . 
Poor things ! How can they have any feelings left ? There was no piano in the room , Granny , and the company separated very soon after dinner . 
Somehow you ought to have managed it , Ethel . 
Then with a touch of anxiety , I hope all this cleverness was natural I mean , I hope it wasn't champagne . 
You know , Ethel , we think as we drink , and Fred isn't used to those frisky wines . 
Mostyn cellars are full of old sherry and claret , and Fred's father was always against frothing , sparkling wines . 
Granny , it was all Fred . 
He heard not , felt not , thought not , so struck with love was he . 
Ruth got him to a window for a few moments and so hid his emotion until he could get himself together . 
Oh , what a tale ! What a cobweb tale ! I don't believe a word of it , and she laughed merrily . 
'Tis true as gospel , Granny . 
Who was the woman ? Dora . 
It is beyond belief , above belief , out of all reason . 
We were all in the room waiting for Dora , and she suddenly entered . 
Under the electric lights she looked as if she was in a golden aura , scintillating with stars . 
She took Fred's breath away . 
He was talking to Ruth , and he could not finish the word he was saying . 
Ruth thought he was going to faint Don't tell me such nonsense . 
Well , grandmother , this nonsense is truth . 
As I said before , Ruth took him aside until he got control of himself then , as he was Dora's escort , he had to go to her . 
It is the truth , grandmother . 
Well , there are many different kinds of fools , but Fred Mostyn is the worst I ever heard tell of . 
Does he not know that the girl is engaged ? Knows it as well as I do . 
None of our family were ever fools before , and I hope Fred will come round quickly . 
Do you think Dora noticed the impression she made ? Yes , Aunt Ruth noticed Dora and Ruth says Dora turned the arrow in the heart wound' all the evening . 
What rubbish you are talking ! Say in good English what you mean . 
She tried every moment they , were to gether to make him more and more in love with her . 
What is her intention ? A girl doesn't carry on that way for nothing . 
Dora has got beyond me lately . 
And , grandmother , I am not troubling about the event as it regards Dora or Fred or Basil Stanhope , but as it regards Ethel . 
What have you to do with it ? That is just what I want to have clearly understood . 
Aunt Ruth told me that father and you would be disappointed if I did not marry Fred . 
Well ? I am sorry to disappoint you , but I never shall marry Fred Mostyn . 
Never ! I rather think you will have to settle that question with your father , Ethel . 
No. I have settled it with myself . 
The man has given to Dora all the love that he has to give . 
I will have a man's whole heart , and not fragments and finger ends of it . 
To be sure , that is right . 
But I can't say much , Ethel , when I only know one side of the case , can I ? I must wait and hear what Fred has to say . 
But I like your spirit and your way of bringing what is wrong straight up to question . 
You are a bit Yorkshire yet , whatever you think gets quick to your tongue , and then out it comes . 
Good girl , your heart is on your lips . 
They talked the afternoon away on this subject , but Madam's last words were not only advisory , they were in a great measure sympathetic . 
Be straight with yourself , Ethel , she said , then Fred Mostyn can do as he likes you will be all right . 
She accepted the counsel with a kiss , and then drove to the Holland House for her father . 
He was not waiting , as Ruth had supposed he would be , but then she was five minutes too soon . 
He looked as if he was dying , and she was moved with a great pity , and longed for her father to come and give some help . 
While she was anxiously watching , a young man was also struck with the suffering on the violinist's face . 
A tumult of hearty applause followed , and then he cried , Gentlemen , this old man fought for the land of our birth . 
He is dying of hunger , and into the old man's hat he dropped a bill and then handed it round to millionaire and workingman alike . 
Ethel's purse was in her hand . 
As he passed along the curb at which her carriage stood , he looked at her eager face , and with a smile held out the battered hat . 
She , also smiling , dropped her purse into it . 
All that evening the conversation turned constantly to this event . 
Mostyn was sure he was a member of some operatic troupe . 
Voices of such rare compass and exceptional training were not to be found among non professional people , he said , and Judge Rawdon was of his opinion . 
His voice will haunt me for many days , he said . 
Those two lines , for instance 'Tis the home of our childhood , that beautiful spot Which memory retains when all else is forgot . 
I wish we could find out where he is singing . 
His voice , as I said , haunts my ear . 
Ethel might have made the same remark , but she was silent . 
I do not believe he is a professional singer he is too young , she answered . 
I should think he was about twenty five years old , tall , slender , and alert . 
He was fashionably dressed , as if he had been , or was going , to an afternoon reception . 
Above all things , I should say he was a gentleman . 
But her joyous , hopeful soul could not think of love and disappointment at the same moment . 
I have seen him , and I shall see him again . 
Neither of us will forget , and somewhere , some day , I shall be waiting , and he will come . 
On the following morning , when the two girls entered the parlor , they found the Judge smoking there . 
He had already breakfasted , and looked over the three or four newspapers whose opinions he thought worthy of his consideration . 
They were lying in a state of confusion at his side , and Ethel glanced at them curiously . 
Did any of the papers speak of the singing before the Holland House ? she asked . 
I think reporters must be ubiquitous . 
All my papers had some sort of a notice of the affair . 
But all agreed in believing the singer to be a member of some opera company now in the city . 
It was neither bet' nor dare' nor conspiracy , she said . 
I saw the singer as he came walking rapidly down the avenue , and he looked as happy and careless as a boy whistling on a country lane . 
When his eyes fell on the old man he hesitated , just a moment , and then spoke to him . 
I am sure they were absolute strangers to each other . 
But how can you be sure of a thing like that , Ethel ? I don't know how , Ruth , but all the same , I am sure . 
And as for it being a new way of begging , that is not correct . 
Not many years ago , one of the De Reszke brothers led a crippled soldier into a Paris cafe , and sang the starving man into comfort in twenty minutes . 
And the angelic Parepa Rosa did as much for a Mexican woman , whom she found in the depths of sorrow and poverty brought her lifelong comfort with a couple of her songs . 
It was my father's copy , he said , an Oxford edition . 
And he turned the leaves with loving carefulness until he came to the incident . 
Then being a fine reader , the words fell from his lips in a stately measure better than music After Troy fell there came to Argos a scarred soldier seeking alms . 
Weary , hungry and thirsty , he leaned in despair against a pillar . 
A youth came to him and asked , Why not play on , Akeratos ? And Akeratos meekly answered , I am no longer skilled . 
Then , said the stranger , hire me thy lyre here is a didrachmon . 
I will play , and thou shalt hold out thy cap and be dumb . 
So the stranger took the lyre and swept the strings , and men heard , as it were , the clashing of swords . 
And when the singer ceased the soldier's cap was filled with coins , and the people begged for yet another song . 
Then he sang of Venus , till all men's hearts were softly stirred , and the air was purple and misty and full of the scent of roses . 
Then suddenly the singer stood in a blaze of light , and the men of Argos saw their god of song , Phoebus Apollo , rise in glory to the skies . 
The girls were delighted the Judge pleased both with his own rendering of the legend and the manifest appreciation with which it had been received . 
You would not have liked it as well as being an American and living in New York , said her father . 
And you would have been a pagan , added Ruth . 
They were such lovely pagans , Ruth , and they dreamed such beautiful dreams of life . 
Leave the book with me , father I will take good care of it . 
Then the Judge gave her the book , and with a sigh looked into the modern street . 
I ought to be down at Bowling Green instead of reading Greek stories to you girls , he said rather brusquely . 
I have a very important railway case on my mind , and Phoebus Apollo has nothing to do with it . 
And , Ethel , do not deify the singer on the avenue . 
He will not turn out , like the singer by the portico , to be a god be sure of that . 
The door closed before she could answer , and both women remained silent a few minutes . 
Then Ethel went to the window , and Ruth asked if she was going to Dora's . 
Yes , was the answer , but without interest . 
You are tired with all this shopping and worry ? It is not only that I am tired , I am troubled about Fred Mostyn . 
Why ? I do not know why . 
It is only a vague unrest as yet . 
But one thing I know , I shall oppose anything like Fred making himself intimate with Dora . 
I think you will do wisely in that . 
But in a week Ethel realized that in opposing a lover like Fred Mostyn she had a task beyond her ability . 
Fred had nothing to do as important in his opinion as the cultivation of his friendship with Dora Denning . 
He called it friendship , but this misnomer deceived no one , not even Dora . 
He seemed to divine their engagements . 
If they went to their jeweler's , or to a bazaar , he was sure to stroll in after them . 
When they came out of the milliner's or modiste's , Fred was waiting . 
He had secured a table at Sherry's he had ordered lunch , and all was ready . 
It was too great an effort to resist his entreaty . 
Perhaps no one wished to do so . 
The girls were utterly tired and hungry , and the thought of one of Fred's lunches was very pleasant . 
Even if Basil Stanhope was with them , it appeared to be all the better . 
Fred always included Dora's lover with a charming courtesy and , indeed , at such hours , was in his most delightful mood . 
Stanhope appeared to inspire him . 
His mentality when the clergyman was present took possession of every incident that came and went , and clothed it in wit and pleasantry . 
Dora's plighted lover honestly thought Dora's undeclared lover the cleverest and most delightful of men . 
And he had no opportunity of noting , as Ethel did , the difference in Fred's attitude when he was not present . 
As this flirtation progressed for on Dora's part it was only vanity and flirtation Ethel grew more and more uneasy . 
She almost wished for some trifling overt act which would give her an excuse for warning Dora and one day , after three weeks of such philandering , the opportunity came . 
I have been expecting this ill nature , Ethel . 
You were cross all the time we were at lunch . 
You spoiled all our pleasure Pray , what have I been doing wrong with Fred Mostyn ? It was Fred who did wrong . 
His compliments to you were outrageous . 
He has no right to say such things , and you have no right to listen to them . 
I am not to blame if he compliments me instead of you . 
He was simply polite , but then it was to the wrong person . 
Such politeness he had no right to offer you . 
It would have been quite proper if offered you , I suppose ? It would not . 
It would have been a great impertinence . 
I have given him neither claim nor privilege to address me as My lovely Ethel ! He called you many times My lovely Dora ! You are not his lovely Dora . 
When he put on your coat , he drew you closer than was proper and I saw him take your hand and hold it in a clasp not necessary . 
Why do you listen and watch ? It is vulgar . 
You told me so yourself . 
Basil says that as well as Fred . 
Do you want a man to lie and say I am ugly ? You are fencing the real question . 
He had no business to use the word my . 
You are engaged to Basil Stanhope , not to Fred Mostyn . 
I am Basil's lovely fiancee I am Fred's lovely friend . 
Oh ! I hope Fred understands the difference . 
Some people are always thinking evil . 
I was thinking of Mr. Stanhope's rights . 
Thank you , Ethel but I can take care of Mr. Stanhope's rights without your assistance . 
If you had said you were thinking of Ethel Rawdon's rights you would have been nearer the truth . 
And Ethel had also reasons for avoiding dissension at this time . 
A break in their friendship now would bring Dora forward to explain , and Dora had a wonderful cleverness in presenting her own side of any question . 
To be misunderstood , to be blamed and pitied , to be made a pedestal for Dora's superiority , was a situation not to be contemplated . 
It was better to look over Dora's rudeness in the flush of Dora's pretended sorrow for it . 
So they forgave each other , or said they did , and then Dora explained herself . 
She declared that she had not the least intention of any wrong . 
You see , Ethel , what a fool the man is about me . 
Somebody says we ought to treat a fool according to his folly . 
That is all I was doing . 
I am sure Basil is so far above Fred Mostyn that I could never put them in comparison and Basil knows it . 
If Basil knows it , and trusts you , I have no more to say . 
I am now sorry I named the subject . 
Never mind , we will forget that it was named . 
The fact is , Ethel , I want all the fun I can get now . 
When I am Basil's wife I shall have to be very sedate , and of course not even pretend to know if any other man admires me . 
Little lunches with Fred , theater and opera parties , and even dances will be over for me . 
Oh , dear , how much I am giving up for Basil ! And sometimes I think he never realizes how dreadful it must be for me . 
You will have your lover all the time then . 
Surely his constant companionship will atone for all you relinquish . 
Take off your coat and hat , Ethel , and sit down comfortably . 
I don't know about Basil's constant companionship . 
Tete a tetes are tiresome affairs sometimes . 
Yes , replied Ethel , as she half reluc tantly removed her coat , they were a bore undoubtedly even in Paradise . 
I wonder if Eve was tired of Adam's conversation , and if that made her listen to the other party . 
I am so glad you mentioned that circumstance , Ethel . 
Some day , no doubt , I shall have to remind Basil of the failure of Adam to satisfy Eve's idea of perfect companionship . 
And Dora put her pretty , jeweled hands up to her ears and laughed a low , musical laugh with a childish note of malice running through it . 
This pseudo reconciliation was not conducive to pleasant intercourse . 
After a short delay Ethel made an excuse for an early departure , and Dora accepted it without her usual remonstrance . 
She had become a person of importance , and had realized the fact . 
The young ladies of St . 
Jude's had made a pet of their revered rector's love , and the elder ladies had also shown a marked interest in her . 
The Dennings' fine house was now talked about and visited . 
Even Bryce had made the standing he desired . 
He was seen with the richest and idlest young men , and was invited to the best houses . 
Dora would certainly repeat their conversation , in her own way of interpreting it , to both Basil Stanhope and Fred Mostyn . 
She felt , too , that reprisals of any kind were out of the question . 
They were not only impolitic , they were difficult . 
Her father had an aversion to Dora , and was likely to seize the first opportunity for requesting Ethel to drop the girl's acquaintance . 
There was only her grandmother to go to , and at first she did not find her at all interested in the trouble . 
Thank God , I am not unreasonable ! Neither was she unreasonable when Ethel finally got her to listen to her own serious grievance with Dora . 
If you will have a woman for a friend , Ethel , you must put up with womanly ways and it is best to keep your mouth shut concerning such ways . 
I hate to see you whimpering and whining about wrongs you have been cordially inviting for weeks and months and years . 
Grandmother ! Yes , you have been sowing thorns for yourself , and then you go unshod over them . 
Oh , grandmother , you are too cruel , Why didn't you have a few friends on your own side ? Father and Ruth never liked Dora . 
And Fred I told you how Fred acted as soon as he saw her ! There was Royal Wheelock , James Clifton , or that handsome Dick Potter . 
Why didn't you ask them to join you at your lunches and dances ? You ought to have pillared your own side . 
A girl without her beaux is always on the wrong side if the girl with beaux is against her . 
It was the great time of Dora's life . 
I wished her to have all the glory of it . 
All her own share that was right . 
All of your share , also that was as wrong as it could be . 
Clifton is yachting , Royal and I had a little misunderstanding , and Dick Potter is too effusive . 
But Dick's effusiveness would have been a good thing for Fred's effusiveness . 
Two men can't go on a complimentary ran tan at the same table . 
They freeze one another out . 
I have always been against people trying to do the work of THEM that are above us . 
I don't want to quarrel with Dora . 
After all , I like her . 
We have been friends a long time . 
Well , then , don't make an enemy of her . 
One hundred friends are too few against one enemy . 
One hundred friends will wish you well , and one enemy will DO you ill . 
God love you , child ! Take the world as you find it . 
Only God can make it any better . 
When is this blessed wedding to come off ? In two weeks . 
You got cards , did you not ? I believe I did . 
Let Dora and her flirtations alone , unless you set your own against them . 
If the priest sees nothing wrong He thinks all she does is perfect . 
Priests are a soft lot , they'll believe anything . 
He's love blind at present . 
Some day , like the prophet of Pethor , he will get his eyes opened . 
As for Fred Mostyn , I shall have a good deal to say about him by and by , so I'll say nothing now . 
One of the Hebrew prophets . 
You promised , grandmother , not to talk to me any more about Fred . 
It was a very inconsiderate promise , a very irrational promise ! I am sorry I made it and I don't intend to keep it . 
Well , it takes two to hold a conversation , grandmother . 
To be sure it does . 
But if I talk to you , I hope to goodness you will have the decency to answer me . 
I wouldn't believe anything different . 
I'm not likely to change it now . 
And none of us want you to change it , dear . 
Granny's way is always a wise way . 
And she kissed her again ere she ran down the steps to her carriage . 
Of course nothing good came of this irritable interference . 
Meddling with the conscience of another person is a delicate and difficult affair , and Ruth had already warned Ethel of its certain futility . 
The sacred place was radiant with white lilies . 
White lilies everywhere and the perfume would have been overpowering , had not the weather been so exquisite that open windows were possible and even pleasant . 
To the softest strains of music Dora entered leaning on her father's arm and her beauty and splendor evoked from the crowd present an involuntary , simultaneous stir of wonder and delight . 
She had hesitated many days between the simplicity of white chiffon and lilies of the valley , and the magnificence of brocaded satin in which a glittering thread of silver was interwoven . 
The satin had won the day , and the sunshine fell upon its beauty , as she knelt at the altar , like sunshine falling upon snow . 
Nor was her brilliant youth affected by the overshadowing tulle usually so unbecoming . 
It veiled her from head to feet , and was held in place by a diamond coronal . 
All her eight maids , though lovely girls , looked wan and of the earth beside her . 
For her sake they had been content with the simplicity of chiffon and white lace hats , and she stood among them lustrous as some angelic being . 
His sense of the gift was ravishing . 
Then amid a murmur and stir of delighted sympathy he took his wife upon his arm , and turned with her to the life they were to face together . 
Two hours later all was a past dream . 
Bride and bridegroom had slipped quietly away , and the wedding guests had arrived at that rather noisy indifference which presages the end of an entertainment . 
But Dora's parlor was in a state of confusion . 
It had , too , an air of loss , and felt like a gilded cage from which the bird had flown . 
They looked dismally at its discomfort and went downstairs . 
Men were removing the faded flowers or sitting at the abandoned table eating and drinking . 
Everywhere there was disorder and waste , and from the servants' quarter came a noisy sense of riotous feasting . 
Where is Mrs. Denning ? Ethel asked a footman who was gathering together the silver with the easy unconcern of a man whose ideas were rosy with champagne . 
He looked up with a provoking familiarity at the question , and sputtered out , She's lying down crying and making a fuss . 
Miss Day is with her , soothing of her . 
Let us go home , said Ethel . 
Ruth had gone home earlier , and Ethel found her resting in her room . 
I am worn out , Ruth , was her first remark . 
I am going to bed for three or four days . 
It was a dreadful ordeal . 
One to which you may have to submit . 
My marriage will be a religious ceremony , with half a dozen of my nearest relatives as witnesses . 
I noticed Fred slip away before Dora went . 
I dare say he is ill and no wonder . 
I am going to sleep . 
Tell father all about the wedding . 
I don't want to hear it named again not as long as I live . 
CHAPTER VI THREE days passed and Ethel had regained her health and spirits , but Fred Mostyn had not called since the wedding . 
Ruth thought some inquiry ought to be made , and Judge Rawdon called at the Holland House . 
There he was told that Mr. Mostyn had not been well , and the young man's countenance painfully confessed the same thing . 
My dear Fred , why did you not send us word you were ill ? asked the Judge . 
I had fever , sir , and I feared it might be typhoid . 
Nothing of the kind , however . 
I shall be all right in a day or two . 
The truth was far from typhoid , and Fred knew it . 
He had left the wedding breakfast because he had reached the limit of his endurance . 
Words , stinging as whips , burned like hot coals in his mouth , and he felt that he could not restrain them much longer . 
Hastening to his hotel , he locked himself in his rooms , and passed the night in a frenzy of passion . 
The very remembrance of the bridegroom's confident transport put mur der in his heart murder which he could only practice by his wishes , impotent to compass their desires . 
His brain had become stupefied by the iteration of inevitable loss , and so refused any longer to voice a woe beyond remedy . 
Then he stood still and called will and reason to council him . 
This way madness lies , he thought . 
I must be quiet I must sleep I must forget . 
He knew that life had to be taken up again , and that in all its farces he must play his part . 
At first the thought of Mostyn Hall presented itself as an asylum . 
It stood amid thick woods , and there were miles of wind blown wolds and hills around it . 
He was lord and master there , no one could intrude upon his sorrow he could nurse it in those lonely rooms to his heart's content . 
Every day , however , this gloomy resolution grew fainter , and one morning he awoke and laughed it to scorn . 
Frederick's himself again , he quoted , and he must have been very far off himself when he thought of giving up or of running away . 
No , Fred Mostyn , you will stay here . 
There are a score of ways and means . 
I will stay and think them over 'twill be odd if I cannot force Fate to change her mind . 
He asked Ruth if he might eat dinner with them . 
He said he was hungry , and the hotel fare did not tempt him . 
And when Judge Rawdon returned he welcomed him in the same generous spirit , and the evening passed delightfully away . 
I wish to have a little talk with you , sir , on a business matter of some importance . 
At what hour can I see you to morrow ? I am engaged all day until three in the afternoon , Fred . 
Suppose I call on you about four or half past ? Very well , sir . 
But both Ethel and Ruth wondered if it was very well . 
But he said nothing to the girls , and they were not accustomed to question him . 
The next morning , instead of going direct to his office , he stopped at Madam , his moth er's house in Gramercy Park . 
A visit at such an early hour was unusual , and the old lady looked at him in alarm . 
We are well , mother , he said as she rose . 
I called to talk to you about a little business . 
Business ! she ejaculated sharply . 
Whose business ? I think I may say the business of the whole family . 
Nay , I am not in it . 
My business is just as I want it , and I am not going to talk about it one way or the other . 
Is not Rawdon Court of some interest to you ? It has been the home and seat of the family for many centuries . 
Mostyn women have been its mistress . 
I never heard of any Mostyn woman who would not have been far happier away from Rawdon Court . 
It was a Calvary to them all . 
I did not call here this morning to hear the Rawdons abused , and you forget your own marriage . 
It was a happy one , I am sure . 
One Rawdon , at least , must be excepted and I think I treated my wife as a good husband ought to treat a wife . 
Not you ! You treated Mary very badly . 
Mother , not even from you I'll say it again . 
The little girl was dying for a year or more , and you were so busy making money you never saw it . 
If she said or looked a little complaint , you moved restless like and told her she moped too much . 
As the end came I spoke to you , and you pooh poohed all I said . 
She and I were alone when she whispered her last message for you a loving one , too . 
Mother ! Mother ! Why recall that bitter day ? I did not think I swear I did not think Never mind swearing . 
I was just reminding you that the Rawdons have not been the finest specimens of good husbands . 
You would not like it to go out of the family ? I should not worry myself if it did . 
I suppose you know Fred Mostyn has a mortgage on it that the present Squire is unable to lift . 
Aye , Fred told me he had eighty thousand pounds on the old place . 
I told him he was a fool to put his money on it . 
One of the finest manors and manor houses in England , mother . 
I was born and brought up near enough to it , I think . 
Eighty thousand pounds is a bagatelle for the place yet if Fred forces a sale , it may go for that , or even less . 
I can't bear to think of it . 
Why not buy it yourself ? I would lift the mortgage to morrow if I had the means . 
I have not at present . 
Well , I am in the same box . 
You have just spoken as if the Mostyns and Rawdons had an equal interest in Rawdon Court . 
Very well , then , it cannot be far wrong for Fred Mostyn to have it . 
Many a Mostyn has gone there as wife and slave . 
I would dearly like to see one Mostyn go as master . 
I shall get no help from you , then , I understand that . 
I'm Mostyn by birth , I'm only Rawdon by , marriage . 
The birth band ties me fast to my family . 
You have failed me for the first time in your life . 
If the money had been for you , Edward , or yours It is good by . 
She called him back peremptorily , and he returned and stood at the open door . 
Why don't you ask Ethel ? I did not think I had the right , mother . 
More right to ask her than I. See what she says . 
She's Rawdon , every inch of her . 
Of course , I can sell securities , but it would be at a sacrifice a great sacrifice at present . 
Ethel has the cash and , as I said , she is Rawdon I'm not . 
I wish my father were alive . 
He wouldn't move me you needn't think that . 
What I have said to you I would have said to him . 
I'll be bound she'll listen if Rawdon calls her . 
I don't like to speak to Ethel . 
It isn't what you like to do , it's what you find you'll have to do , that carries the day and a good thing , too , considering . 
You are not quite yourself , I think . 
Well , I didn't sleep last night , so there's no wonder if I'm a bit cross this morning . 
But if I lose my temper , I keep my understanding . 
She was really cross by this time . 
Her son had put her in a position she did not like to assume . 
No love for Rawdon Court was in her heart . 
She would rather have advanced the money to buy an American estate . 
In the first place , the Judge had the strictest idea of the sacredness of the charge committed to him as guardian of his daughter's fortune . 
In the second , Ethel inherited from her Yorkshire ancestry an intense sense of the value and obligations of money . 
She'd never abide him for a lifelong neighbor , the old lady decided . 
It is the Rawdon pride in her . 
At this moment the bell rang and she heard Fred's voice inquiring if Madam was at home . 
Instantly she divined the motive of his call . 
His policy cunning , Madam called it did not please her . 
She immediately assured herself that she wouldn't go against her own flesh and blood for anyone , and his wan face and general air of wretchedness further antagonized her . 
She asked him fretfully what he had been doing to himself , for , she added , it's mainly what we do to ourselves that makes us sick . 
Was it that everlasting wedding of the Denning girl ? He flushed angrily , but answered with much of the same desire to annoy , I suppose it was . 
I felt it very much . 
Dora was the loveliest girl in the city . 
There are none left like her . 
It will be a good thing for New York if that is the case . 
I'm not one that wants the city to myself , but I can spare Dora STANHOPE , and feel the better for it . 
The most beautiful of God's creatures ! You've surely lost your sight or your judgment , Fred . 
She is just a dusky skinned girl , with big , brown eyes . 
You can pick her sort up by the thousand in any large city . 
And a wandering hearted , giddy creature , too , that will spread as she goes , no doubt . 
I'm sorry for Basil Stanhope , he didn't deserve such a fate . 
Indeed , he did not ! It is beyond measure too good for him . 
I've always heard that affliction is the surest way to heaven . 
Dora will lead him that road , and it will be more sure than pleasant . 
Poor fellow ! He'll soon be as ready to curse his wedding day as Job was to curse his birthday . 
A costly wife she will be to keep , and misery in the keeping of her . 
But if you came to talk to me about Dora STANHOPE , I'll cease talking , for I don't find it any great entertainment . 
I came to talk to you about Squire Rawdon . 
What about the Squire ? Keep it in your mind that he and I were sweethearts when we were children . 
I haven't forgotten that fact . 
You know Rawdon Court is mortgaged to me ? I've heard you say so more than once . 
I intend to foreclose the mortgage in September . 
I find that I can get twice yes , three times the interest for my money in American securities . 
How do you know they are securities ? Bryce Denning has put me up to several good things . 
Well , if you think good things can come that road , you are a bigger fool than I ever thought you . 
Fool ! Madam , I allow no one to call me a fool , especially without reason . 
Where is he to go to ? If I buy the place , for of course it will have to be sold , he is welcome to remain at Rawdon Court . 
And he would deserve to do it if he were that low minded but if I know Squire Percival , he will go to the poor house first . 
Fred , you would surely scorn such a dirty thing as selling the old man out of house and home ? I want my money , or else I want Rawdon Manor . 
And I have no objections either to your wanting it or having it , but , for goodness' sake , wait until death gives you a decent warrant for buying it . 
I am afraid to delay . 
He is evidently trying to prevent me getting possession , and I know that old Nicholas Rawdon would give his eyelids to own Rawdon Court . 
As to the Judge My son wants none of it . 
You can make your mind easy on that score . 
It seemed to me that if we could love each other the money claims of Mostyn and the inherited claims of Rawdon would both be satisfied . 
Unfortunately , I found that I could not love Ethel as a wife should be loved . 
And I can tell you , Fred , that Ethel never could have loved you as a husband should be loved . 
She was a good deal disappointed in you from the very first . 
I thought I made a favorable impression on her . 
She said you played the piano nicely but Ethel is all for handsome men , tall , erect six footers , with a little swing and swagger to them . 
She thought you small and finicky . 
But Ethel's rich enough to have her fancy , I hope . 
It is little matter now what she thought . 
I can't please every one . 
No , it's rather harder to do that than most people think it is . 
I would please my conscience first of all , Fred . 
That's the point worth mentioning . 
And I shall just remind you of one thing more your money all in a lump on Rawdon Manor is safe . 
It is in one place , and in such shape as it can't run away nor be smuggled away by any man's trickery . 
I've said all now I am going to say . 
Thank you for the advice given me . 
I will take it as far as I can . 
This afternoon the Judge has promised to talk over the business with me . 
The Judge never saw Rawdon Court , and he cares nothing about it , but he can give you counsel about the good things' Bryce Denning offers you . 
And you may safely listen to it , for , right or wrong , I see plainly it is your own advice you will take in the long run . 
Mostyn laughed pleasantly and went back to his hotel to think over the facts gleaned from his conversation with Madam . 
In the first place , he understood that any overt act against Squire Rawdon would be deeply resented by his American relatives . 
But then he reminded himself that his own relationship with them was merely sentiment . 
He had now nothing to hope for in the way of money . 
Madam's apparently spontaneous and truthful assertion , that the Judge cared nothing for Rawdon Court , was , however , very satisfactory to him . 
He had been foolish enough to think that the thing he desired so passionately was of equal value in the estimation of others . 
He saw now that he was wrong , and he then remembered that he had never found Judge Rawdon to evince either interest or curiosity about the family home . 
If he had been a keen observer , the Judge's face when he called might have given his comfortable feelings some pause . 
It was contracted , subtle , intricate , but he came forward with a congratulation on Mostyn's improved appearance . 
A few weeks at the seaside would do you good , he added , and Mostyn answered , I think of going to Newport for a month . 
And then ? I want your opinion about that . 
McLean advises me to see the country to go to Chicago , St . 
Louis , Denver , cross the Rockies , and on to California . 
It seems as if that would be a grand summer programme . 
But my lawyer writes me that the man in charge at Mostyn is cutting too much timber and is generally too extravagant . 
Then there is the question of Rawdon Court . 
My finances will not let me carry the mortgage on it longer , unless I buy the place . 
Are you thinking of that as probable ? Yes . 
It will have to be sold . 
And Mostyn seems to be the natural owner after Rawdon . 
The Mostyns have married Rawdons so frequently that we are almost like one family , and Rawdon Court lies , as it were , at Mostyn's gate . 
The Squire is now old , and too easily persuaded for his own welfare , and I hear the Tyrrel Rawdons have been visiting him . 
Such a thing would have been incredible a few years ago . 
Who are the Tyrrel Rawdons ? I have no acquaintance with them . 
They are the descendants of that Tyrrel Rawdon who a century ago married a handsome girl who was only an innkeeper's daughter . 
He was of course disowned and disinherited , and his children sank to the lowest social grade . 
The next generation saw the Tyrrel Rawdons the largest loom lords in Yorkshire . 
You know the Mostyns have always been Tories and Conservatives . 
Excuse me , but I am afraid I am ignorant concerning Mostyn politics . 
I take little interest in the English parties . 
Well , I hope you will take an interest in my affairs and give me your advice about the sale of Rawdon Court . 
I think my advice would be useless . 
In the first place , I never saw the Court . 
My father had an old picture of it , which has somehow disappeared since his death , but I cannot say that even this picture interested me at all . 
You know I am an American , born on the soil , and very proud of it . 
I suppose the Squire is in favor of your buying the Court ? I never named the subject to him . 
I thought perhaps he might have written to you on the matter . 
You are the last male of the house in that line . 
He has never written to me about the Court . 
Then , I am not the last male . 
From what you say , I think the Tyrrel Rawdons could easily supply an heir to Rawdon . 
That is the thing to be avoided . 
It would be a great offense to the county families . 
Why should they be considered ? A Rawdon is always a Rawdon . 
But a cotton spinner , sir ! A mere mill owner ! Well , I do not feel with you and the other county people in that respect . 
I think a cotton spinner , giving bread to a thousand families , is a vastly more respectable and important man than a fox hunting , idle landlord . 
A mill owning Rawdon might do a deal of good in the sleepy old village of Monk Rawdon . 
Your sentiments are American , not English , sir . 
As I told you , we look at things from very different standpoints . 
Do you feel inclined to lift the mortgage yourself , Judge ? I have not the power , even if I had the inclination to do so . 
My money is well invested , and I could not , at this time , turn bonds and securities into cash without making a sacrifice not to be contemplated . 
I confess , however , that if the Court has to be sold , I should like the Tyrrel Rawdons to buy it . 
I dare say the picture of the offending youth is still in the gallery , and I have heard my mother say that what is another's always yearns for its lord . 
Driven from his heritage for Love's sake , it would be at least interesting if Gold gave back to his children what Love lost them . 
Surely it would be more natural that the Mostyns should succeed the Rawdons . 
We have , as it were , bought the right with at least a dozen intermarriages . 
That also is pure sentiment . 
Gold at last will carry the succession . 
But not your gold , I infer ? Not my gold certainly not . 
Thank you for your decisive words They make my course clear . 
As to your summer movements , I am equally unable to give you advice . 
I think you need the sea for a month , and after that McLean's scheme is good . 
And a return to Mostyn to look after your affairs is equally good . 
If I were you , I should follow my inclinations . 
So do as you want to do it is the only advice I can offer you . 
I may leave for Newport to morrow . 
I shall call on the ladies in the morning . 
Good by , and I hope you will soon recover your usual health . 
Then the Judge lifted his hat , and with a courteous movement left the room . 
His face had the same suave urbanity of expression , but he could hardly restrain the passion in his heart . 
Placid as he looked when he entered his house , he threw off all pretenses as soon as he reached his room . 
The Yorkshire spirit which Ethel had declared found him out once in three hundred and sixty four days and twenty three hours was then in full pos session . 
The American Judge had disappeared . 
He looked as like his ancestors as anything outside of a painted picture could do . 
In a short time he rose , bathed his head and face in cold water , and began to dress for dinner . 
And as he stood before the glass he smiled at the restored color and calm of his countenance . 
You are a prudent lawyer , he said sarcastically . 
Then , as he slowly went downstairs , he repeated to himself , Mostyn seems to be the natural owner of Rawdon . 
No , sir , neither natural nor legal owner . 
Rawdon Court lies at Mostyn gate . 
Mostyn lies at Rawdon gate . 
Natural that the Mostyns should succeed the Rawdons . 
Power of God ! Neither in this generation nor the next . 
The room felt as if there was an iceberg in it , and he kept his right hand in his pocket . 
I be lieve he was afraid I would shake hands with him it is Ethel , I suppose . 
While servants were present it passed for high spirits , but as soon as the three were alone in the library , the excitement took at once a serious aspect . 
My dears , he said , standing up and facing them , I have had a very painful interview with Fred Mostyn . 
What of the Squire ? asked Ruth . 
He has no other home . 
Why is this thing to be done ? Is there no way to prevent it ? Mostyn wants the money , he says , to invest in American securities . 
Then with gradually increasing passion he repeated in a low , intense voice the remarks which Mostyn had made , and which had so infuriated the Judge . 
Before he had finished speaking the two women had caught his temper and spirit . 
Ethel's face was white with anger , her eyes flashing , her whole attitude full of fight . 
Ruth was troubled and sorrowful , and she looked anxiously at the Judge for some solution of the condition . 
It was Ethel who voiced the anxiety . 
Father , she asked , what is to be done ? What can you do ? Nothing , I am sorry to say , Ethel . 
My money is absolutely tied up for this year , at any rate . 
I cannot touch it without wronging others as well as myself , nor yet without the most ruinous sacrifice . 
If I could do anything , I would not care at what sacrifice . 
You can do all that is necessary , Ethel , and you are the only person who can . 
You have at least eight hundred thousand dollars in cash and negotiable securities . 
Your mother's fortune is all yours , with its legitimate accruements , and it was left at your own disposal after your twenty first birthday . 
It has been at your own disposal WITH MY CONSENT since your nineteenth birthday . 
Then , father , we need not trouble about the Squire . 
I wish with all my heart to make his home sure to him as long as he lives . 
You are a lawyer , you know what ought to be done . 
Good girl ! I knew what you would say and do , or I should not have told you the trouble there was at Rawdon . 
Now , I propose we all make a visit to Rawdon Court , see the Squire and the property , and while there perfect such arrangements as seem kindest and wisest . 
Ruth , how soon can we be ready to sail ? Father , do you really mean that we are to go to England ? It is the only thing to do . 
I must see that all is as Mostyn says . 
I must not let you throw your money away . 
That is only prudent , said Ruth , and we can be ready for the first steamer if you wish it . 
I am delighted , father . 
I long to see England more than all , I long to see Rawdon . 
I did not know until this moment how much I loved it . 
Well , then , I will have all ready for us to sail next Saturday . 
Say nothing about it to Mostyn . 
He will call to morrow morning to bid you good by before leaving for Newport with McLean . 
I shall certainly be out , said Ethel . 
I do not wish ever to see his face again , and I must see grandmother and tell her what we are going to do . 
I dare say she guesses already . 
She advised me to ask you about the mortgage . 
She knew what you would say . 
Except your father , Ethel . 
Except my father my dear , good father . 
And I am glad that Love did not always make them poor . 
They must now be rich , if they want to buy the Court . 
Mostyn is much annoyed that the Squire has begun to notice them . 
He says one of the grandsons of the Tyrrel Rawdons , disinherited for love's sake , came to America some time in the forties . 
I asked your grandmother if this story was true . 
Does she know what became of him ? No. In his last letter to them he said he had just joined a party going to the gold fields of California . 
It is likely he perished on the terrible journey across the plains . 
When I am in England I intend to call upon these Tyrrel Rawdons . 
I think I shall like them . 
My heart goes out to them . 
I am proud of this bit of romance in the family . 
Oh , there is plenty of romance behind you , Ethel . 
When you see the old Squire standing at the entrance to the Manor House , you may see the hags of Cressy and Agincourt , of Marston and Worcester behind him . 
And the Rawdon women have frequently been daughters of Destiny . 
Many of them have lived romances that would be incredible if written down . 
Oh , Ethel , dear , we cannot , we cannot for our lives , let the old home fall into the hands of strangers . 
At any rate , if on inspection we think it wrong to interfere , I can at least try and get the children of the disinherited Tyrrel back to their home . 
She could not sleep for her waking dreams . 
She made all sorts of resolutions about the despised Tyrrel Rawdons . 
In the morning she went to talk the subject over with her grandmother . 
The old lady received the news with affected indif ference . 
She said , It mattered nothing to her who sat in Rawdon's seat but she would not hear Mostyn blamed for seeking his right . 
Money and sentiment are no kin , she added , and Fred has no sentiment about Rawdon . 
Why should he ? Only last summer Rawdon kept him out of Parliament , and made him spend a lot of money beside . 
He's right to get even with the family if he can . 
But the old Squire ! He is now I know he's older than I am . 
If you turn a man out of his home when he is eighty years old , I think that is out of the way . 
And Mr. Mostyn is not to be trusted . 
I wouldn't trust him as far as I could see him . 
Highty tighty ! He has not asked you to trust him . 
You lost your chance there , miss . 
It's natural for Yorkshire to help the weakest side . 
But there , Fred can do his own fighting , I'll warrant . 
He's not an ordinary man . 
I'm sorry to say he isn't , grandmother . 
If he were he would speak without a drawl , and get rid of his monocle , and not pay such minute attention to his coats and vests and walking sticks . 
Then Ethel proceeded to explain her resolves with regard to the Tyrrel Rawdons . 
I shall pay them the greatest attention , she said . 
It was a noble thing in young Tyrrel Rawdon to give up everything for honorable love , and I think everyone ought to have stood by him . 
That wouldn't have done at all . 
From what Fred Mostyn says , Tyrrel's descendants seem to have taken a very respectable road . 
I've nothing to say for or against them . 
It's years and years since I laid eyes on any of the family . 
Your grandfather helped one of the young men to come to America , and I remember his mother getting into a passion about it . 
She was a fat woman in a Paisley shawl and a love bird on her bonnet . 
I saw his sister often . 
She weighed about twelve stone , and had red hair and red cheeks and bare red elbows . 
She was called a strapping lass . 
That is quite a complimentary term in the West Riding . 
Please , grandmother , I don't want to hear any more . 
In two weeks I shall be able to judge for myself . 
Since then there have been two generations , and if a member of the present one is fit for Parliament That's nothing . 
We needn't look for anything specially refined in Parliament in these days . 
These Tyrrel Rawdons are chapel people . 
The rector of Rawdon church would not marry Tyrrel to his low born love , and so they went to the Methodist preacher , and after that to the Methodist chapel . 
That put them down , more than you can imagine here in America . 
It was a shame ! Methodists are most respectable people . 
The President is a Methodist . 
I never asked what he was . 
I am a Church of England woman , you know that . 
However , English Methodists often go back to the Church when they get rich . 
Church or chapel makes no difference to me , grandmother . 
If people are only good . 
To be sure but you won't be long in England until you'll find out that some things make a great deal of difference . 
Do you know your father was here this morning ? He wanted me to go with you a likely , thing . 
But , grandmother , do come . 
We will take such good care of you , and I know , but I'd rather keep my old memories of Yorkshire than get new fashioned ones . 
I can tell that by what Fred says . 
My three great friends are dead . 
They have left children and grandchildren , of course , but I don't want to make new acquaintances at my age , unless I have the picking of them . 
No , I shall get Miss Hillis to go with me to my little cabin on the Jersey coast . 
We'll take our knitting and the fresh novels , and I'll warrant we'll see as much of the new men and women in them as will more than satisfy us . 
I will write you often , Granny , and tell you everything . 
I shouldn't wonder if you come across Dora Stanhope , but I wouldn't ask her to Rawdon . 
She'll mix some cup of bother if you do . 
In such loving and intimate conversation the hours sped quickly , and Ethel could not bear to cut short her visit . 
Almost on entering the avenue from Madison Square there was a crush , and her carriage came to a standstill . 
She was then opposite the store of a famous English saddler , and near her was an open carriage occupied by a middle aged gentleman in military uniform . 
He appeared to be waiting for someone , and in a moment or two a young man came out of the saddlery store , and with a pleasant laugh entered the carriage . 
It was the Apollo of her dreams , the singer of the Holland House pavement . 
She could not doubt it . 
His face , his figure , his walk , and the pleasant smile with which he spoke to his companion were all positive characteristics . 
She had forgotten none of them . 
Perhaps she had an instinctive presentiment that it was best to leave all to Destiny . 
Finally her coachman passed the party , and there was a momentary recognition . 
He was bending forward , listening to something the lady was saying , when the vehicles almost touched each other . 
He flashed a glance at them , and met the flash of Ethel's eyes full of interest and curiosity . 
It was over in a moment , but in that moment Ethel saw his astonishment and delight , and felt her own eager questioning answered . 
Then she was joyous and full of hope , for these two silent meetings are promises , she said to Ruth . 
I feel sure I shall see him again , and then we shall speak to each other . 
I hope you are not allowing yourself to feel too much interest in this man , Ethel he is very likely married . 
Oh , no ! I am sure he is not , Ruth . 
How can you be sure ? You know nothing about him . 
I cannot tell HOW I know , nor WHY I know , but I believe what I feel and he is as much interested in me as I am in him . 
I confess that is a great deal . 
You may never see him again . 
I shall expect to see him next winter , he evidently lives in New York . 
The lady you saw may be his wife . 
Don't be interested in any man on unknown ground , Ethel . 
It is not prudent it is not right . 
He will very likely be looking for me this summer at Newport and elsewhere . 
He will be glad to see me when I come home . 
Fred called soon after you went out this morning . 
He left for Newport this afternoon . 
He will be at sea now . 
And we shall be there in a few days . 
When I am at the seaside I always feel a delicious torpor yet Nelly Baldwin told me she loved an Atlantic passage because she had such fun on board . 
You have crossed several times , Ruth is it fun or torpor ? All mirth at sea soon fades away , Ethel . 
Passengers are a very dull class of people , and they know it they rebel against it , but every hour it becomes more natural to be dull . 
Very soon all mentally accommodate themselves to being bored , dreamy and dreary . 
I think I shall like the ocean . 
There are games , and books , and company , and dinners , and other things . 
Certainly , and you can think yourself happy , until gradually a contented cretinism steals over you , body and mind . 
No , no ! said Ethel enthusiastically . 
But in ten days we may be in Yorkshire . 
And then , my dear , you may meet your Prince some fine Yorkshire gentleman . 
I have strictly and positively promised myself that my Prince shall be a fine American gentleman . 
My dear Ethel , it is very seldom the time , and the place , And the Loved One , come together . 
I live in the land of good hope , Ruth , and my hopes will be realized . 
PART THIRD I WENT DOWN INTO THE GARDEN TO SEE IF THE POMEGRANATES BUDDED . 
Song of Solomon , VI . 
CHAPTER VII IT was a lovely afternoon on the last day of May . 
On either hand the beautifully cut hedges were white and sweet , and a caress of scent the soul of the hawthorne flower enfolded them . 
bread , and the careless stillness of physical well being and of minds at ease needed no speech , but the mutual smiling nod of intimate sympathy . 
For the sense of joy and beauty which makes us eloquent is far inferior to that sense which makes us silent . 
This exquisite pause in life was suddenly ended by an exclamation from the Judge . 
They were at the great iron gates of Rawdon Park , and soon were slowly traversing its woody solitudes . 
Their road through this grand park of three hundred acres was a wide , straight avenue shaded with beech trees . 
The green turf on either hand was starred with primroses . 
In the deep undergrowth , ferns waved and fanned each other , and the scent of hidden violets saluted as they passed . 
Drowsily , as if half asleep , the blackbirds whistled their couplets , and in the thickest hedges the little brown thrushes sang softly to their brooding mates . 
For half an hour they kept this heavenly path , and then a sudden turn brought them their first sight of the old home . 
It was a stately , irregular building of red brick , sandaled and veiled in ivy . 
The nu merous windows were all latticed , the chimneys in picturesque stacks , the sloping roof made of flags of sandstone . 
It stood in the center of a large garden , at the bottom of which ran a babbling little river a cheerful tongue of life in the sweet , silent place . 
They crossed it by a pretty bridge , and in a few minutes stood at the great door of the mansion . 
It was wide open , and the Squire , with outstretched hands , rose to meet them . 
He led them into the hall , and standing there he seemed almost a part of it . 
In his youth he had been a son of Anak , and his great size had been matched by his great strength . 
His stature was still large , his face broad and massive , and an abundance of snow white hair emphasized the dignity of a countenance which age had made nobler . 
The generations of eight hundred years were crystallized in this benignant old man , looking with such eager interest into the faces of his strange kindred from a far off land . 
In the evening they sat together in the old hall talking of the Rawdons . 
There is great family of us , living and dead , said the Squire , and I count them all my friends . 
Bare is the back that has no kin behind it . 
That is not our case . 
Eight hundred years ago there was a Rawdon in Rawdon , and one has never been wanting since . 
We have had our share in all England's strife and glory , for if there was ever a fight going on anywhere Rawdon was never far off . 
Yes , we can string the centuries together in the battle flags we have won . 
It seems but yesterday , and Queen Victoria gave him the Cross for it . 
Poor lad , he had it on when he died . 
It went to the grave with him . 
I wouldn't have it touched . 
I fancy the Rawdons would know it . 
No one dare say they don't . 
I think they meddle a good deal more with this life than we count on . 
The days that followed were days in The House Wonderful . 
It held the treasure trove of centuries all its rooms were full of secrets . 
Even the common sitting room had an antique homeliness that provoked questions as to the dates of its furniture and the whereabouts of its wall cupboards and hidden recesses . 
And it was no wonder that about every room floated the perfume of ancient things and the peculiar family aura that had saturated all the inanimate objects around them . 
In a few days , life settled itself to orderly occupations . 
The Squire was a late riser the Judge and his family breakfasted very early . 
Many visitors soon appeared , and there were calls to return and courtesies to accept . 
Among these visitors the Tyrrel Rawdons were the earliest . 
The representatives of that family were Nicholas Rawdon and his wife Lydia . 
Nicholas Rawdon was a large , stout man , very arrogant , very complete , very alert for this world , and not caring much about the other . 
His wife was a pleasant , garrulous woman , who interested Ethel very much . 
Her family was her chief topic of conversation . 
She had two daughters , one of whom had married a baronet , a man with money and easy to manage and the other , a rich cotton lord in Manchester . 
They haven't done badly , she said confidentially , and it's a great thing to get girls off your hands early . 
Adelaide and Martha were well educated and suitable , but , she added with a glow of pride , you should see my John Thomas . 
And he is a member of Parliament , too Radical ticket . 
Wiped Mostyn out pretty well . 
That was a thing to do , wasn't it ? I suppose Mr. Mostyn was the Conservative candidate ? You may be sure of that . 
But my John Thomas doesn't blame him for it the gentry have to be Conservatives . 
John Thomas said little against his politics he just set the crowd laughing at his ways his dandified ways . 
Mostyn is all for preserving game , and his father was a mean creature . 
When one thinks of his father , one has to excuse the young man a little bit . 
I saw a good deal of Mr. Mostyn in New York , said Ethel . 
He used to speak highly of his father . 
I'll warrant he did and he ought to keep at it , for he's the only one in this world that will use his tongue for that end . 
But my John Thomas ! Oh , cried Ethel , laughing , you must not tell me so much about John Thomas he might not like it . 
John Thomas can look all he does and all he says straight in the face . 
You may talk of him all day , and find nothing to say that a good girl like you might not listen to . 
I should have brought him with us , but he's away now taking a bit of a holiday . 
I'm sure he needs it . 
How soon will he be home ? I might say to day or any other early day . 
He's been idling for a month now , and his father says the very looms are calling out for him . 
I'll bring him to see you just as soon as he comes home , looms or no looms , and he'll be fain to come . 
No one appreciates a pretty girl more than John Thomas does . 
So the days passed sweetly and swiftly onward , and there was no trouble in them . 
And as there were no entanglements and no possible reason for disputing , a settlement was quickly arrived at . 
Then , as Mostyn's return was uncertain , an attorney's messenger , properly accredited , was sent to America to procure his signatures . 
As this date approached Ruth and Ethel began to think of a visit to London . 
Ethel lifted her letter with an exclamation . 
It is from Dora , she said , and her voice had a tone of annoyance in it . 
Dora is in London , at the Savoy . 
She wants to see me very much . 
We have been so happy . 
I don't think she will interfere much , Ruth . 
My dears , said Judge Rawdon , I have a letter from Fred Mostyn . 
He will be in London in a day or two . 
Why is he coming , father ? He says he has a proposal to make about the Manor . 
I wish he were not coming . 
No one wants his proposal . 
Then the breakfast table , which had been so gay , became silent and depressed , and presently the Judge went away without exhibiting further interest in the London journey . 
I do wish Dora would let us alone , said Ruth . 
She always brings disappointment or worry of some kind . 
And I wonder what is the meaning of this unexpected London visit . 
I thought she was in Holland . 
She said in her last letter that London would be impossible before August . 
She found her alone , and she had evidently been crying . 
Indeed , she frankly admitted the fact , declaring that she had been so bored and so homesick , that she relieved she had cried her beauty away . 
She glanced at Ethel's radiant face and neat fresh toilet with envy , and added , I am so glad to see you , Ethel . 
But I was sure that you would come as soon as you knew I wanted you . 
Oh , indeed , Dora , you must not make yourself too sure of such a thing as that ! I really came to London to get some new gowns . 
I have been shopping all morning . 
I thought you had come in answer to my letter . 
That is the reason I did not go out with Basil . 
Don't you expect a little too much , Dora ? I have a great many interests and duties I used to be first . 
When a girl marries she is supposed to Please don't talk nonsense . 
Basil does not take the place of everyone and everything else . 
I think we are often very tired of each other . 
This morning , when I was telling him what trouble I had with my maid , Julia , he actually yawned . 
He tried to smother the yawn , but he could not , and of course the honeymoon is over when your bridegroom yawns in your face while you are telling him your troubles . 
I should think you would be glad it was over . 
Of all the words in the English language honeymoon' is the most ridiculous and imbecile . 
I suppose when you get married you will take a honeymoon . 
I shall have more sense and more selfishness . 
A girl could hardly enter a new life through a medium more trying . 
I am sure it would need long tested affections and the sweetest of tempers to make it endurable . 
I cannot imagine what you mean . 
I mean that all traveling just after marriage is a great blunder . 
Traveling makes the sunniest disposition hasty and peevish , for women don't love changes as men do . 
Not one in a thousand is seen at her best while traveling , and the majority are seen at their very worst . 
Then there is the discomfort and desolation of European hotels their mysterious methods and hours , and the ways of foreigners , which are not as our ways . 
Don't talk of them , Ethel . 
They are dreadful places , and such queer people . 
Ethel , what you say is certainly too true . 
I am weary to death of it all . 
I want to be at Newport with mother , who is having a lovely time there . 
Of course Basil is very nice to me , and yet there have been little tiffs and struggles very gentle ones for the mastery , which he is not going to get . 
To day he wanted me to go with him and Canon Shackleton to see something or other about the poor of London . 
I would not do it . 
I am so lonely , Ethel , I want to see some one . 
I feel fit to cry all the time . 
Is that so ? Exactly . 
Just fancy if we were among our friends in Newport . 
I should have some pleasure in dressing and looking lovely . 
Why should I dress here ? There is no one to see me . 
Of course , but Basil spends all the time in visiting cathedrals and clergymen . 
If we go out , it is to see something about the poor , or about schools and such like . 
We were not in London two hours until he was off to Westminster Abbey , and I didn't care a cent about the old place . 
He says I must not ask him to go to theaters , but historical old houses don't interest me at all . 
I hate Europe , and England I hate worst of all . 
You have not seen England . 
We are all enraptured with its beauty and its old houses and pleasant life . 
You are among friends at home , as it were . 
I have heard all about Rawdon Court . 
He is going to buy it . 
When ? Some time this fall . 
Then next year he will entertain us , and that will be a little different to this desolate hotel , I think . 
How long will you be in London ? I cannot say . 
We are invited to Stanhope Castle , but I don't want to go there . 
We stayed with the Stanhopes a week when we first came over . 
They were then in their London house , and I got enough of them . 
Did you dislike the family ? No , I cared nothing about them . 
We had prayers night and morning , and a prayer before and after every meal . 
They read only very good books , and the Honorable Misses Stanhope sew for the poor old women and teach the poor young ones . 
They work harder than anyone I ever knew , and they call it improving the time . 
They thought me a very silly , reckless young woman , and I think they all prayed for me . 
Lady Stanhope was the only one who comprehended I was guying them and she looked at me with half shut eyes in a way that would have spoiled some girls' fun . 
It only made me the merrier . 
So I tried to show them a cake walk , but the old lord rose then and said I must be tired , and they would excuse me . 
Somehow I could not manage him . 
Basil was at a workman's concert , and when he came home I think there were some advices and remonstrances , but Basil never told me . 
I felt as if they were all glad when I went away , and I don't wish to go to the Castle and I won't go either . 
But if Basil wishes to go He can go alone . 
Why do you not ask me to Rawdon Court ? Because I am only a guest there . 
I have no right to ask you . 
I am sure if you told Squire Rawdon how fond you are of me , and how lonely I am , he would tell you to send for me . 
I do not believe he would . 
He has old fashioned ideas about newly married people . 
He would hardly think it possible that you would be willing to go anywhere without Basil yet . 
He could ask Basil too . 
If Mr. Mostyn is coming home , he can ask you to Mostyn Hall . 
It is very near Rawdon Court . 
Fred said as soon as he had possession of the Court he could put both places into a ring fence . 
Then he would live at the Court . 
If he asks us there next summer I shall be sure to beg an invitation for you also so I think you might deserve it by getting me one now . 
I don't want to go to Mostyn yet . 
Have you seen Mostyn Hall ? I have passed it several times . 
It is a large , gloomy looking place I was going to say haunted looking . 
It stands in a grove of yew trees . 
So you are not going to ask me to Rawdon Court ? I really cannot , Dora . 
It is not my house . 
I am only a guest there . 
I see how it is . 
You always were jealous of Fred's liking for me . 
And of course when he goes down to Mostyn you would prefer me to be absent . 
Good by , Dora ! I have a deal of shopping to do , and there is not much time before the ball , for many things will be to make . 
The ball ! What ball ? Only one at Rawdon Court . 
The neighbors have been exceedingly kind to us , and the Squire is going to give a dinner and ball on the first of August . 
Sit down and tell me about the neighbors and the ball . 
I promised Ruth to be back at five . 
Our modiste is to see us at that hour . 
Everyone and everything comes before me now . 
I used to be first of all . 
I wish I were in Newport with dad and mamma even Bryce would be a comfort . 
As I said before , you have Mr. Stanhope . 
Are you going to send for me to the ball ? I cannot promise that , Dora . 
She buried her face in the soft pillow , and Ethel closed the door to the sound of her sobs . 
But they did not cause her to return or to make any foolish promises . 
She divined their insincerity and their motive , and had no mind to take any part in forwarding the latter . 
And Ruth assured her she had acted wisely . 
Marriage is such a risk , Ethel , but to marry without the courage to adapt oneself . 
AH ! You think that condition unspeakably hard ? There are no words for it . 
Dora was not reticent , I assure you . 
A wife's complaints are self inflicted wounds scattered seeds , from which only misery can spring . 
I hope you will not see her again at this time . 
I made no promise to do so . 
And where all is so uncertain , we had better suppose all is right than that all is wrong . 
Even if there was the beginning of wrong , it needs but an accident to prevent it , and there are so many . 
Accidents ! Yes , for accident is God's part in affairs . 
We call it accident it would be better to say an interposition . 
Dora told me Mostyn intended to buy Rawdon Court in September , and he has even invited the Stanhopes to stay there next summer . 
What did you say ? Nothing against it . 
Do you think Mostyn is in London now ? I should not wonder . 
I am sure Dora is expecting him . 
After this meeting all the joy went out of Ruth and Ethel's shopping . 
They wanted to get back to the Court , and they attended strictly to business in order to do so . 
Mostyn followed them very quickly . 
He was exceedingly anxious to see and hear for himself how his affairs regarding Rawdon stood . 
They were easily made plain to him , and he saw with a pang of disappointment that all his hopes of being Squire of Rawdon Manor were over . 
Every penny he could righteously claim was paid to him , and on the title deeds of the ancient place he had no longer the shadow of a claim . 
The Squire looked ten years younger as he affectionately laid both hands on the redeemed parchments , and Mostyn with enforced politeness congratulated him on their integrity and then made a hurried retreat . 
Of its own kind this disappointment was as great as the loss of Dora . 
He could think of neither without a sense of immeasurable and disastrous failure . 
One petty satisfaction regarding the payment of the mortgage was his only com fort . 
He might now show McLean that it was not want of money that had made him hitherto shy of the good investments offered him . 
It was , after all , a poor compensation , but there was also the gold . 
Most welcome , Lady Ethel , to the rights you inherit , and the rights you have bought . 
It was a moment hardly likely to be duplicated in any life , and Ethel escaped from its tense emotions as soon as possible . 
She could not speak , her heart was too full of joy and wonder . 
There are souls that say little and love much . 
How blessed are they ! On the following morning the invitations were sent for the dinner and dance , but the time was put forward to the eighth of August . 
In everyone's heart there was a hope that before that day Mostyn would have left Rawdon , but the hope was barely mentioned . 
It was evident that he had frequent letters from Dora . 
He knew all her movements , and spoke several times of opening Mostyn Hall and inviting the Stanhopes to stay with him until their return to America . 
But as this suggestion did not bring from any member of the Rawdon family the invitation hoped for , it was not acted upon . 
And for all the irritation and humiliations centering round his loss of Rawdon and his inabilities with regard to Dora he blamed Ethel . 
The bright , joyous girl with her loving heart , her abounding vitality , and constant cheerfulness , made him angry . 
In none of her excellencies he had any share , consequently he hated her . 
And it angered Mostyn that neither Ruth nor Ethel felt any sympathy for Dora's ennui , and proposed no means of releasing her from it . 
He considered them both disgustingly selfish and ill natured , and was certain that all their reluctance at Dora's presence arose from their jealousy of her beauty and her enchanting grace . 
On the afternoon of the day preceding the intended entertainment Ruth , Ethel , and the Squire were in the great dining room superintending its decoration . 
They were merrily laughing and chatting , and were not aware of the arrival of any visitors until Mrs. Nicholas Rawdon's rosy , good natured face appeared at the open door . 
Everyone welcomed her gladly , and the Squire offered her a seat . 
Our John Thomas came home this morning and his friend with him , and I want invitations for the young men , both of them . 
My great pleasure lies that way if you'll give it to me . 
Most gladly , answered the Squire , and Ethel immediately went for the necessary passports . 
When she returned she found Mrs. Nicholas helping Ruth and the Squire to arrange the large silver and cut crystal on the sideboard , and talking at the same time with unabated vivacity . 
Yes , she was saying , the lads would have been here two days ago , but they stayed in London to see some American lady married . 
John Thomas's friend knew her . 
She was married at the Ambassador's house . 
A fine affair enough , but it bewilders me this taking up marriage without priest or book . 
The Church's warrant , it seems , is out of date . 
I am glad , said the Squire , that the young men are home in time for our dance . 
The young like such things . 
To be sure they do . 
John Thomas wouldn't give me a moment's rest till I came here . 
I didn't want to come . 
Then she looked at the girls with a smile , and said in a comfortable kind of way You'll find them very nice lads , indeed . 
He's got a sweet temper , and a strong mind , and a straight judgment , if I know anything about men which Nicholas sometimes makes me think I don't . 
But Nicholas isn't an ordinary man , he's what you call an exception . 
Then shaking her head at Ethel , she continued reprovingly You were neither of you in church Sunday . 
I know some young women who went to the parish church Methodists they are specially to see your new hats . 
There's some talk about them , I can tell you , and the village milliner is pestered to copy them . 
She keeps her eyes open for you . 
You disappointed a lot of people . 
You ought to go to church in the country . 
It's the most respectable thing you can do . 
We were both very tired , said Ruth , and the sun was hot , and we had a good Sabbath at home . 
Ethel read the Psalms , Epistle and Gospel for the day , and the Squire gave us some of the grandest organ music I ever heard . 
Well , well ! Everyone knows the Squire is a grand player . 
I don't suppose there is another to match him in the whole world , and the old feeling about church going is getting slack among the young people . 
They serve God now very much at their ease . 
Is not that better than serving Him on compulsion ? asked Ruth . 
I was brought up an Independent , and went to their chapel until I married Nicholas Rawdon . 
My fa ther was a broad thinking man . 
He never taught me to locate God in any building and I'm sure I don't believe our parish church is His dwelling place . 
If it is , they ought to mend the roof and put a new carpet down and make things cleaner and more respectable . 
Well , Squire , you have silver enough to tempt all the rogues in Yorkshire , and there's a lot of them . 
But now I've seen it , I'll go home with these bits of paper . 
I shall be a very important woman to night . 
Them two lads won't know how to fleech and flatter me enough . 
I'll be waited on hand and foot . 
And Nicholas will get a bit of a set down . 
He was bragging about Miss Ethel bringing his invitation to his hand and promising to dance with him . 
I wouldn't do it if I were Miss Ethel . 
Before her arrival there had been some doubt as to the weather . 
She brought the shining sun with her , and when he set , he left them with the promise of a splendid to morrow a promise amply redeemed when the next day dawned . 
Ethel and Ruth were to receive on the lawn , and at the open hall door the Squire would wait to welcome his guests . 
She was thus the center of a little laughing , bantering group when the Nicholas Rawdon party arrived . 
Nicholas remained with the Squire , Mrs. Rawdon and the young men went toward Ethel . 
So , with the boldness of one who brings happy tidings , she pressed forward . 
Ethel saw her approach , and went to meet her . 
Suddenly her steps were arrested . 
An extraordinary thing was going to happen . 
The Apollo of her dreams , the singer of the Holland House pavement , was at Mrs. Rawdon's side , was talking to her , was evidently a familiar friend . 
She was going to meet him , to speak to him at last . 
She would hear his name in a few moments all that she had hoped and believed was coming true . 
She gave the gentlemen flowers , and listened to Mrs. Rawdon's chatter , and said in reply she knew not what . 
A swift and exquisite excitement had followed her surprise . 
Feelings she could not voice were beating at her lips , and yet she knew that without her conscious will she had expressed her astonishment and pleasure . 
It was , indeed , doubtful whether any after speech or explanation would as clearly satisfy both hearts as did that momentary flash from soul to soul of mutual remembrance and interest . 
I thought I'd give you a surprise , said Mrs. Rawdon delightedly . 
You didn't know the Tyrrel Rawdons had a branch in America , did you ? We are a bit proud of them , I can tell you that . 
And , indeed , the motherly lady had some reason . 
John Thomas was a handsome youth of symmetrical bone and flesh and well developed muscle . 
In this respect the American cousin was his antipodes . 
His whole body had a psychical expression slim , elastic , alert . 
These personal characteristics taking some minutes to describe were almost an instantaneous revelation to Ethel , for what the soul sees it sees in a flash of understanding . 
But at that time she only answered her impressions without any inquiry concerning them . 
She was absorbed by the personal presence of the men , and all that was lovely and lovable in her nature responded to their admiration . 
They came out where the purple plums and golden apricots were beginning to brighten a southern wall , and there , moodily walking by himself , they met Mostyn face to face . 
An angry flash and movement interpreted his annoyance , but he immediately recovered himself , and met Ethel and his late political opponent with polite equanimity . 
As far as Mostyn was concerned , this first malapropos meeting indicated the whole evening . 
His heart was beating quickly to some sense of defeat which he did not take the trouble to analyze . 
He only saw the man who had shattered his political hopes and wasted his money in possession also of what he thought he might rightly consider his place at Ethel's side . 
The long , bewitching hours of the glorious evening added fuel to the flame of his anger . 
He could only procure from Ethel the promise of one unimportant dance at the close of her programme and the American had three dances , and the mere loom man two . 
And the reasoning of wounded self love is a singular process . 
Mostyn was quite oblivious of any personal cause for the change he attributed it entirely to the Squire's ingratitude . 
This evening was the inauguration of a period of undimmed delight . 
Died in the hunting field , murmured the Squire . 
They who sin for love aren't so bad , sir , as they who sin for money . 
I never heard worse of Tyrrel Rawdon than that he loved a poor woman instead of a rich woman and married her . 
I am of your opinion , John Thomas , said the Squire , rising , and as he did so he looked at the Judge , who immediately indorsed the proposal . 
One after the other rose with sweet and strong assent , until there was only Tyrrel Rawdon's voice lacking . 
Then the housekeeper was called , and they went slowly , with soft words , up to the third story of the house . 
The Squire made a motion to his descendant , and the young American tenderly turned it to the light . 
There was no decay on those painted lineaments . 
The hanging of the picture in its old place was a silent and tender little ceremony , and after it the party separated . 
Mrs. Rawdon went with Ruth to rest a little . 
She said she had a headache , and she also wanted a good womanly talk over the affair . 
Not a word of request was spoken it was the eager , passionate command of his eyes she obeyed . 
And for a few minutes they were speechless , then so intensely conscious that words stumbled and were lame , and they managed only syllables at a time . 
But he took her hand , and they came by sunny alleys of boxwood to a great plane tree , bearing at wondrous height a mighty wealth of branches . 
A bank of soft , green turf encircled its roots , and they sat down in the trembling shadows . 
It was a new Garden of Eden , in which life was sweet as perfume and pure as prayer . 
Nothing stirred the green , sunny afternoon but the murmur of the bees , and the sleepy twittering of the birds in the plane branches . 
An inexpressible peace swept like the breath of heaven through the odorous places . 
They sat down sighing for very happiness . 
The silence became too eloquent . 
At length it was almost unendurable , and Ethel said softly How still it is ! Tyrrel looked at her steadily with beaming eyes . 
How did you get it ? I bought it from the old man you gave it to . 
Oh ! Then you know him ? How is that ? The hotel people sent a porter home with him lest he should be robbed . 
Next day I made inquiries , and this porter told me where he lived . 
I went there and bought this purse from him . 
I knew some day it would bring me to you . 
I have carried it over my heart ever since . 
So you noticed me ? I saw you all the time I was singing . 
I have never forgotten you since that hour . 
What made you sing ? Compassion , fate , an urgent impulse perhaps , indeed , your piteous face I saw it first . 
Really ? I saw it first . 
I saw it all the time I was singing . 
When you dropped this purse my soul met yours in a moment's greeting . 
I knew I should meet you again . 
I have loved you ever since . 
I wanted to tell you so the hour we met . 
It has been hard to keep my secret so long . 
It was my secret also . 
I love you beyond all words . 
My life is in your hands . 
You can make me the gladdest of mortals . 
You can send me away forever . 
For all things come by fate to flower , At their unconquerable hour . 
And the very atmosphere of such bliss is diffusive it seemed as if all the living creatures around understood . 
A wonderful humming and buzzing filled the hives , and the air vibrated with the movement of wings . 
When they finally accepted his invitation , they found Mrs. Rawdon drinking a cup of tea with Ruth in the hall . 
Ethel joined them with affected high spirits and random explanations and excuses , but both women no ticed her radiant face and exulting air . 
I made Nicholas Rawdon a promise in Mossgill Garden I've had to spend all my life since trying to keep . 
Tyrrel and I have been sitting under the plane tree watching the bees . 
They are such busy , sensible creatures . 
They are that , answered Mrs. Rawdon . 
If you knew all about them you would wonder a bit . 
My father had a great many he studied their ways and used to laugh at the ladies of the hive being so like the ladies of the world . 
You see the young lady bees are just as inexperienced as a schoolgirl . 
They get lost in the flowers , and are often so overtaken and reckless , that the night finds them far from the hive , heavy with pollen and chilled with cold . 
Sometimes father would lift one of these imprudent young things , carry it home , and try to get it admitted . 
He never could manage it . 
The lady bees acted just as women are apt to do when other women GO where they don't go , or DO as they don't do . 
But this is interesting , said Ruth . 
There was always a deal of buzzing about the poor , silly thing , and I shouldn't wonder if their stings were busy too . 
Bees are ill natured as they can be . 
I shall take a chaperon with me , then , when I go into the garden . 
There's the Judge he's a very suitable , sedate looking one but you never can tell . 
The first woman found in a garden and a tree had plenty of sorrow for herself and every woman that has lived after her . 
I wish Nicholas and John Thomas would come . 
I'll warrant they're talking what they call politics . 
The young man was still sitting , but he rose with smiling good humor as Tyrrel entered . 
Is that the kind of stuff you talk to our hands , John Thomas ? No wonder they are neither to hold nor to bind . 
They were in the hall as John Thomas finished his political creed , and in a few minutes the adieux were said , and the wonderful day was over . 
The Squire went at once to his room , and Ethel looked at Ruth inquiringly . 
She seemed exhausted , and was out of sympathy with all her surroundings . 
What enormous vitality these Yorkshire women must have ! she said almost crossly . 
Mrs. Rawdon has been talking incessantly for six hours . 
She has felt all she said . 
She has frequently risen and walked about . 
She has used all sorts of actions to emphasize her words , and she is as fresh as if she had just taken her morning bath . 
How do the men stand them ? Because they are just as vital . 
Oh , they are a wonderful race , Ruth ! I really can't discuss them now , Ethel . 
Don't you want to know what Tyrrel said to me this afternoon ? My dear , I know . 
Lovers have said such things before , and lovers will say them evermore . 
You shall tell me in the morning . 
I thought he looked distrait and bored with our company . 
She has also the most sincere nature , and her high spirit is sweetly tempered by her affectionate heart . 
I am glad you know so much about her . 
Look here , Cousin Tyrrel , I fancied to night you were a bit jealous of me . 
I don't want to marry Ethel Rawdon . 
I I thought you would be . 
Who is the young lady ? Miss Lucy Watson . 
Her father is the Independent minister . 
He is a gentleman , though his salary is less than we give our overseer . 
And he is a great scholar . 
She finished her course at college this summer , and with high honors . 
Bless you , Tyrrel , she knows far more than I do about everything but warps and looms and such like . 
I admire a clever woman , and I'm proud of Lucy . 
Where is she now ? Well , she was a bit done up with so much study , and so she went to Scarborough for a few weeks . 
She has an aunt there . 
The sea breezes and salt water soon made her fit for anything . 
She may be home very soon now . 
When she says John Thomas , dear one , I tremble with pleasure , and when she lets me kiss her sweet mouth , I really don't know where I am . 
It's a situation to make a man coin new words . 
I suppose your family are pleased . 
Well , I never thought about my family till I had Lucy's word . 
She knew Lucy all through . 
I suppose that's the way with wives . 
Lucy will be just like that . 
She's got a sharp little temper , too . 
She'll let me have a bit of it , no doubt , now and then . 
Will you like that ? I wouldn't care a farthing for a wife without a bit of temper . 
There would be no fun in living with a woman of that kind . 
My father would droop and pine if mother didn't spur him on now and then . 
She has keyed me up to a right pitch . 
When Jonathan Arkroyd comes about that wool he sold us I'll be all ready for him . 
So you see I'm not against a sharp temper . 
She was sincerely ardent in her praises of Tyrrel Rawdon , but and there is always a but she wondered if Ethel had noticed what a quick temper he had . 
Oh , yes , answered Ethel , I should not like him not to have a quick temper . 
I expect my husband to stand up at a moment's notice for either mine or his own rights or opinions . 
And in the afternoon when all preliminaries had been settled and approved , Judge Rawdon expressed himself in the same manner to Ruth . 
Yes , he said , in reply to her timid suggestion of temper , you can strike fire anywhere with him if you try it , but he has it under control . 
Besides , Ethel is just as quick to flame up . 
It will be Rawdon against Rawdon , and Ethel's weapons are of finer , keener steel than Tyrrel's . 
Ethel will hold her own . 
How did the Squire feel about such a marriage ? He was quite overcome with delight . 
He declined to think of it in any other way but providential , and of course I let him take all the satisfaction he could out of the idea . 
Ever since he heard of the engagement he has been at the organ singing the One Hundred and Third Psalm . 
He is the dearest and noblest of men . 
How soon shall we go home now ? In about a month . 
Are you tired of England ? I shall be glad to see America again . 
There was a letter from Dora this morning . 
They sail on the twenty third . 
Do you know anything of Mostyn ? Since he wrote us a polite farewell we have heard nothing . 
Do you think he went to America ? I cannot tell . 
When he bid us good by he made no statement as to his destination he merely said he was leaving England on business . 
Well , Ruth , we shall sail as soon as I am satisfied all is right . 
There is a little delay about some leases and other matters . 
In the meantime the lovers are in Paradise wherever we locate them . 
And in Paradise they dwelt for another four weeks . 
The ancient garden had doubtless many a dream of love to keep , but none sweeter or truer than the idyl of Tyrrel and Ethel Rawdon . 
They were never weary of rehearsing it every incident of its growth had been charming and romantic , and , as they believed , appointed from afar . 
Fluted dahlias , scarlet poppies , and all the flowers that exhale their spice in the last hot days of August burned incense for them . 
Their very hair was laden with odor , their fingers flower sweet , their minds took on the many colors of their exquisite surroundings . 
The birds were then mostly silent . 
And all these marvelous changes imparted to love that sweet sadness which is beyond all words poetic and enchaining . 
Yet however sweet the hours , they pass away , and it is not much memory can save from the mutable , happy days of love . 
Still , when the hour of departure came they had garnered enough to sweeten all the after straits and stress of time . 
September had then perceptibly begun to add to the nights and shorten the days , and her tender touch had been laid on everything . 
With a smile and a sigh the Rawdons turned their faces to their pleasant home in the Land of the West . 
It was to be but a short farewell . 
They had promised the Squire to return the following summer , but he felt the desolation of the parting very keenly . 
With his hat slightly lifted above his white head , he stood watching them out of sight . 
They played and sang until the Squire rose weary , but full of gladness . 
The look of immortality was in his eyes , its sure and certain hope in his heart . 
I KNOW IN WHOM I have believed . 
Joel , sing that last sequence again . 
Stand where I can see thee . 
And the lad's joyful voice rang exulting out Lord , Thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations . 
Lord , Thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations . 
Unknowable , Thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations . 
No , no , no , what an ungrateful sinner I would be to change the Lord everlasting for the Unknowable . 
CHAPTER IX NEW YORK is at its very brightest and best in October . 
This month of the year may be safely trusted not to disappoint . 
The skies are blue , the air balmy , and there is generally a delightful absence of wind . 
Judge Rawdon's house had an especially charming at home appearance . 
The Judge frankly admitted his pleasure in his home surroundings . 
He said , as they ate their first meal in the familiar room , that a visit to foreign countries was a grand , patriotic tonic . 
She knew well that the English strain had only temporarily exhausted itself it would have its period of revival at the proper time . 
I am going to see grandmother , she said gayly . 
I shall stay with her all day . 
But I have a letter from her , interrupted the Judge , and she will not return home until next week . 
I was anticipating so eagerly the joy of seeing her . 
Well , as I cannot do so , I will go and call on Dora Stanhope . 
I would not if I were you , Ethel , said Ruth . 
Let her come and call on you . 
I had a little note from her this morning , welcoming me home , and entreating me to call . 
Then I will only remind you , Ethel , that Dora is not a fortunate woman to know . 
As far as I can see , she is one of those who sow pain of heart and vexation of spirit about every house they enter , even their own . 
But I cannot gather experience for you , it will have to grow in your own garden . 
All right , dear Ruth , and if I do not like its growth , I will pull it up by the roots , I assure you . 
Ruth went with her to the door and watched her walk leisurely down the broad steps to the street . 
The light kindled in her eyes and on her face as she did so . 
She already felt the magnetism of the great city , and with a laughing farewell walked rapidly toward Dora's house . 
Her card brought an instant response , and she heard Dora's welcome before the door was opened . 
And her first greeting was an enthusiastic compliment , How beautiful you have grown , Ethel ! she cried . 
Ah , that is the European finish . 
You have gained it , my dear you really are very much improved . 
And you also , Dora ? The words were really a question , but Dora accepted them as an assertion , and was satisfied . 
I suppose I am , she answered , though I'm sure I can't tell how it should be so , unless worry of all kinds is good for good looks . 
I've had enough of that for a lifetime . 
Oh , it's the solid truth partly your fault too . 
I never interfered Of course you didn't , but you ought to have interfered . 
When you called on me in London you might have seen that I was not happy and I wanted to come to Rawdon Court , and you would not invite me . 
I called your behavior then very mean , and I have not altered my opinion of it . 
There were good reasons , Dora , why I could not ask you . 
Good reasons are usually selfish ones , Ethel , and Fred Mostyn told me what they were . 
He likely told you untruths , Dora , for he knew nothing about my reasons . 
I saw very little of him . 
I shall not explain how' or why . 
Did you enjoy yourself at Stanhope Castle ? Enjoy myself ! Are you making fun of me ? Ethel , dear , it was the most awful experience . 
You never can imagine such a life , and such women . 
They were dressed for a walk at six o'clock they had breakfast at half past seven . 
They went to the village and inspected cottages , and gave lessons in housekeeping or dressmaking or some other drudgery till noon . 
They walked back to the Castle for lunch . 
They attended to their own improvement from half past one until four , had lessons in drawing and chemistry , and , I believe , electricity . 
They had another walk , and then indulged themselves with a cup of tea . 
They dressed and received visitors , and read science or theology between whiles . 
There was always some noted preacher or scholar at the dinner table . 
The conversation was about acids and explosives , or the planets or bishops , or else on the never , never ending subject of elevating the workingman and building schools for his children . 
Basil , of course , enjoyed it . 
He thought he was giving me a magnificent object lesson . 
He was never done praising the ladies Mary Elinor and Adelaide Stanhope . 
I'm sure I wish he had married one or all of them and I told him so . 
You could not be so cruel , Dora . 
I managed it with the greatest ease imaginable . 
He was always trotting at their side . 
They spoke of him as the most pious young man . 
I have no doubt they were all in love with him . 
I used to pretend to be very much in love when they were present . 
I dare say it made them wretched . 
Besides , they blushed and thought me improper . 
Basil didn't approve , either , so I hit all round . 
If I had thought , Dora , you were so uncomfortable , I would have asked Basil and you to the Court . 
You saw I was not happy when I was at the Savoy . 
Are you going to Newport , or is Mrs. Denning in New York ? That is another trouble , Ethel . 
When I wrote mother I wanted to come to her , she sent me word she was going to Lenox with a friend . 
Then , like you , she said she had no liberty to invite me , and so on . 
I never knew mother act in such a way before . 
I nearly broke my heart about it for a few days , then I made up my mind I wouldn't care . 
Mrs. Denning , I am sure , thought she did the wisest and kindest thing possible . 
I didn't want mother to be wise . 
I wanted her to understand that I was fairly worn out with my present life and needed a change . 
I'm sure she did understand . 
Then why was she so cruel ? and she shrugged her shoulders impatiently and sat down . 
I'm so tired of life , she continued . 
When did you hear of Fred Mostyn ? I know nothing of his movements . 
Is he in America ? Somewhere . 
I asked mother if he was in Newport , and she never answered the ques tion . 
I suppose he will be in New York for the winter season . 
This topic threatened to be more dangerous than the other , and Ethel , after many and futile attempts to bring conversation into safe commonplace channels , pleaded other engagements and went away . 
She was painfully depressed by the interview . 
She did not repeat to Ruth the conversation which had been so painful to her . 
She described Dora's dress and appearance , and commented on Fred Mostyn's description of Tyrrel Rawdon , and on Mrs. Denning's refusal of her daughter's proposed visit . 
Ruth thought the latter circumstance significant . 
I dare say Mostyn was in Newport at that time , she answered . 
Mrs. Denning has some very quick perceptions . 
And Ruth's opinion was probably correct , for during dinner the Judge remarked in a casual manner that he had met Mr. Mostyn on the avenue as he was coming home . 
He was well , he said , and made all the usual inquiries as to your health . 
The information brought precisely the same thought at the same moment to both women , and as soon as they were alone they uttered it . 
She knew Mostyn was in the city , said Ethel in a low voice . 
I am sure of it . 
Her elaborate and beautiful dressing was for him . 
Poor Basil ! She asked me to stay and lunch with her , but very coolly , and when I refused , did not press the matter as she used to do . 
Yes , she was expecting him . 
I understand now her nervous manner , her restlessness , her indifference to my short visit . 
I wish I could do anything . 
You cannot , and you must not try . 
Have you heard from Tyrrel yet , I have had a couple of telegrams . 
He will write from Chicago . 
Is he going at once to the Hot Springs ? As rapidly as possible . 
Colonel Rawdon is now there , and very ill . 
Tyrrel will put his father first of all . 
The trouble at the mine can be investigated afterwards . 
You will miss him very much . 
You have been so happy together . 
Of course I shall miss him . 
But it will be a good thing for us to be apart awhile . 
Love must have some time in which to grow . 
I am a little tired of being very happy , and I think Tyrrel also will find absence a relief . 
In Lalla Rookh' there is a line about love falling asleep in a sameness of splendor . 
How melancholy is a long spell of hot , sunshiny weather , and how gratefully we welcome the first shower of rain . 
Love has made you a philosopher , Ethel . 
Well , it is rather an advantage than otherwise . 
I am going to take a walk , Ruth , into the very heart of Broadway . 
I have had enough of the peace of the country . 
I long for all the chaotic , unintelligible noise of the streets . 
How suggestive it is ! Yet it never explains itself . 
It only gives one a full sense of life . 
Love may need just the same stimulus . 
I wish grandmother would come home . 
I should not require Broadway as a stimulus . 
I am afraid she will be very angry with me , and there will be a battle royal in Gramercy Park . 
It was nearly a week before Ethel had this crisis to meet . 
She went down to it with a radiant face and charming manner , and her reception was very cordial . 
She had heard something similar often . 
My darling grandmother , she cried , I thought you would never come home . 
It wasn't my fault , dear . 
Miss Hillis and an imbecile young doctor made me believe I had a cold . 
I had nothing at all but what I ought to have . 
I've been made to take all sorts of things , and do all sorts of things that I hate to take and hate to do . 
For ten days I've been kicking my old heels against bedclothes . 
Yesterday I took things in my own hands . 
Never mind , Granny dear , it was all a good discipline . 
Discipline ! You impertinent young lady ! Discipline for your grandmother ! Discipline , indeed ! That one word may cost you a thousand dollars , miss . 
I don't care if it does , only you must give the thousand dollars to poor Miss Hillis . 
Poor Miss Hillis has had a most comfortable time with me all summer . 
I know she has , consequently she will feel her comfortless room and poverty all the more after it . 
Give her the thousand , Granny . 
Dear grandmother , we had the loveliest time you can imagine . 
And there is not , in all the world , such a noble old gentleman as Squire Percival Rawdon . 
Grandmother , I never saw a more courteous gentleman . 
He was never tired of talking about you . 
What had he to say about me ? That you were the loveliest girl in the county , and that he never could forget the first time he saw you . 
He said you were like the vision of an angel . 
Nonsense ! I was just a pretty girl in a book muslin frock and a white sash , with a rose at my breast . 
I believe they use book muslin for linings now , but it did make the sheerest , lightest frocks any girl could want . 
Yes , I remember that time . 
A handsome young fellow he was then as ever stepped in shoe leather . 
And he must have loved you dearly . 
He would sit hour after hour telling Ruth and me how bright you were , and how all the young beaux around Monk Rawdon adored you . 
Nonsense ! Nonsense ! I had beaux to be sure . 
What pretty girl hasn't ? And he said his brother Edward won you because he was most worthy of your love . 
Well , now , I chose Edward Rawdon because he was willing to come to America . 
I longed to get away from Monk Rawdon . 
I was faint and weary with the whole stupid place . 
And the idea of living a free and equal life , and not caring what lords and squires and their proud ladies said or did , pleased me wonderfully . 
We read about Niagara and the great prairies and the new bright cities , and Edward and I resolved to make our home there . 
Your grandfather wasn't a man to like being the Squire's brother . 
Are you glad you came to America ? Never sorry a minute for it . 
Ten years in New York is worth fifty years in Monk Rawdon , or Rawdon Court either . 
Squire Percival was very fond of me . 
He thought I resembled you , grandmother , but he never admitted I was as handsome as you were . 
Grandmother , that is pure slander . 
I know some very fine young men , handsome and athletic both . 
They sit fanning themselves like schoolgirls , and call for juleps and ice water . 
I've got eyes yet , my dear . 
Squire Percival was a different kind of man he could follow the hounds all day and dance all night . 
What ever made him get into such a mess with his estate ? Your grandfather thought him as straight as a string in money matters . 
You said just now he was careless and extravagant . 
Well , I did him wrong , and I'm sorry for it . 
How did he manage to need eighty thousand pounds ? It is rather a pitiful story , grandmother , but he never once blamed those who were in the wrong . 
His son for many years had been the real manager of the estate . 
He was a speculator his grandsons were wild and extravagant . 
They began to borrow money ten years ago and had to go on . 
Whom did they borrow from ? Fred Mostyn's father . 
The devil ! Excuse me , Ethel but the name suits and may stand . 
The dear old Squire would have taken the fault on himself if he could have done so . 
They that wronged him were his own , and they were dead . 
He never spoke of them but with affection . 
Poor Percival ! Your father told me he was now out of Mostyn's power he said you had saved the estate , but he gave me no particulars . 
How did you save it ? Bought it ! Nonsense ! House and lands and outlying farms and timber everything . 
Dear grandmother , what else could I do ? You did right . 
The Squire is Lord of the Manor as long as he lives . 
My father says I have done well to buy it . 
In the future , if I do not wish to keep it , Nicholas Rawdon will relieve me at a great financial advantage . 
Why didn't you let Nicholas Rawdon buy it now ? He would have wanted prompt possession . 
The Squire would have had to leave his home . 
It would have broken his heart . 
He has a soft , loving heart . 
That isn't always a blessing . 
It can give one a deal of suffering . 
And I hear you have all been making idols of these Tyrrel Rawdons . 
Fred tells me they are as vulgar a lot as can be . 
Fred lies ! Excuse me , grandmother but the word suits and may stand . 
She is handsome , well dressed , and so good hearted that her pretty county idioms are really charming . 
John Thomas is a man by himself not handsome , but running over with good temper , and exceedingly clever and wide awake . 
Many times I was forced to tell myself , John Thomas would make an ideal Squire of Rawdon . 
Why don't you marry him . 
What was the matter with the men ? He was already engaged to a very lovely young lady . 
I am glad she is a lady . 
She is also very clever . 
She has been to college and taken high honors , a thing I have not done . 
You might have done and overdone that caper you were too sensible to try it . 
Well , I'm glad that part of the family is looking up . 
They had the right stuff in them , and it is a good thing for families to dwell together in unity . 
We have King David's word for that . 
My observation leads me to think it is far better for families to dwell apart , in unity . 
They seldom get along comfortably together . 
She was expecting and waiting for this topic , but stubbornly refused to give Ethel any help toward bringing it forward . 
Oh , to be sure ! Well , what of him ? I am going to marry him . 
I shall see about that . 
We were coming here together to see you , but before we left the steamer he got a telegram urging him to go at once to his father , who is very ill . 
I have not asked him to come and see me . 
Perhaps he will wait till I do so . 
If you are not going to love Tyrrel , you need not love me . 
I won't have you for a grandmother any longer . 
I did without you sixty years . 
I shall not live another twelve months , and I think I can manage to do without you for a granddaughter any longer . 
You cannot do without me . 
You would break your heart , and I should break mine . 
Whereupon Ethel began to cry with a passion that quite gratified the old lady . 
She watched her a few moments , and then said gently There now , that will do . 
When he comes to New York bring him to see me . 
And don't name the man in the meantime . 
I won't talk about him till I've seen him . 
It isn't fair either way . 
Fred likes no one but Dora Stanhope . 
Eh ! What ! Is that nonsense going on yet ? Then Ethel described her last two interviews with Dora . 
She did this with scrupulous fidelity , making no suggestions that might prejudice the case . 
For she really wanted her grandmother's decision in order to frame her own conduct by it . 
Madam was not , however , in a hurry to give it . 
What do you think ? she asked Ethel . 
I have known Dora for many years she has always told me everything . 
But nothing about Fred ? Nothing . 
Nothing to tell , perhaps ? Perhaps . 
Where does her excellent husband come in ? She says he is very kind to her in his way . 
And his way is to drag her over the world to see the cathedrals thereof , and to vary that pleasure with inspecting schools and reformatories and listening to great preachers . 
Upon my word , I feel sorry for the child ! And I know all about such excellent people as the Stanhopes . 
I used to go to what they call a pleasant evening' with them . 
Perhaps there was a comic recitation , at which no one laughed , and finally we had wine and hot water they called it port negus' and tongue sandwiches and caraway cakes . 
My dear Ethel , I yawn now when I think of those dreary evenings . 
She says she does not care a hairpin for them , and Basil feels so hurt . 
I dare say he does , poor fellow ! He thinks St . 
Jude's Kindergarten and sewing circles and missionary societies are the only joys in the world . 
Right enough for Basil , but how about Dora ? They are his profession she ought to feel an interest in them . 
Come now , look at the question sensibly . 
Preaching and philanthropy is their business . 
They get so much a year for doing it . 
Jude's pays Mrs. Stanhope a red cent . 
There now , and if she isn't paid , she's right not to work . 
Amen to that ! Before she was married Dora said she felt a great interest in church work . 
I dare say she did . 
Marriage makes a deal of difference in a woman's likes and dislikes . 
Church work was courting time before marriage after marriage she had other opportunities . 
I think you might speak to Fred Mostyn I might , but it wouldn't be worth while . 
Be true to your friend as long as you can . 
In Yorkshire we stand by our friends , right or wrong , and we aren't too particular as to their being right . 
My father enjoyed justifying a man that everyone else was down on and I've stood by many a woman nobody had a good word for . 
I was never sorry for doing it , either . 
I'll be going into a strange country soon , and I should not wonder if some of them that have gone there first will be ready to stand by me . 
We don't know what friends we'll be glad of there . 
Other domestic arrangements were discussed , and when the Judge called for his daughter at four o'clock , Madam vowed she had spent one of the happiest days of her life . 
Ruth tells me , said the Judge , that Dora Stanhope called for Ethel soon after she left home this morning . 
Ruth seems troubled at the continuance of this friendship . 
Have you spoken to your grandmother , Ethel , about Dora ? She has told me all there is to tell , I dare say , answered Madam . 
Well , mother , what do you think ? I see no harm in it yet awhile . 
It is not fair , Edward , to condemn upon likelihoods . 
We are no saints , sinful men and women , all of us , and as much inclined to forbidden fruit as any good Christians can be . 
Ethel can do as she feels about it she's got a mind of her own , and I hope to goodness she'll not let Ruth Bayard bit and bridle it . 
Going home the Judge evidently pondered this question , for he said after a lengthy silence , Grandmother's ethics do not always fit the social ethics of this day , Ethel . 
She criticises people with her heart , not her intellect . 
There is a remarkable thing called Respectability to be reckoned with remember that . 
And Ethel answered , No one need worry about Dora . 
Some women may show the edges of their character soiled and ragged , but Dora will be sure to have hers reputably finished with a hem of the widest propriety . 
And after a short silence the Judge added , almost in soliloquy , And , moreover , Ethel , There's a divinity that shapes our ends , Rough hew them how we will . 
Nor did Ethel wish him to do so . 
Under these circumstances began the second beautiful phase of Ethel's wooing , a sweet , daily correspondence , the best of all preparations for matrimonial oneness and understanding . 
And for the rest , she took up her old life with a fresh enthusiasm . 
Among these interests none were more urgent in their claims than Dora Stanhope and fortified by her grandmother's opinion , Ethel went at once to call on her . 
Dora felt a contempt for them , and he had hardly left the room ere she said Basil has gone to his vestry in high spirits . 
When I told him you were coming to see me to day he smiled like an angel . 
He believes you will keep me out of mischief , and he feels a grand confidence in something which he calls your influence . 
What do you mean by mischief ? Oh , I suppose going about with Fred Mostyn . 
I must have some one to look after me . 
All the young men I used to know pass me now with a lifted hat or a word or two . 
The girls have forgotten me . 
I don't suppose I shall be asked to a single dance this winter . 
But if I were you , I would give no one a reason for saying a word against me . 
Why should you ? Fred will supply them with reasons . 
I can't keep the man away from me . 
I don't believe I want to he is very nice and useful . 
You are talking nonsense , things you don't mean , Dora . 
You are not such a foolish woman as to like to be seen with Fred Mostyn , that little monocular snob , after the aristocratic , handsome Basil Stanhope . 
The comparison is a mockery . 
Basil is the finest gentleman I ever saw . 
Socially , he is perfection , and He is only a clergyman . 
Even as a clergyman he is of religiously royal descent . 
There are generations of clergymen behind him , and he is a prince in the pulpit . 
Every man that knows him gives him the highest respect , every woman thinks you the most fortunate of wives . 
No one cares for Fred Mostyn . 
Even in his native place he is held in contempt . 
He had nine hundred votes to young Rawdon's twelve thousand . 
I am going to the matinee to morrow with Fred . 
He wanted to take me out in his auto this afternoon , but when I said I would go if you would he drew back . 
What is the reason ? Did he make you offer of his hand ? Did you refuse it ? He never made me an offer . 
I count that to myself as a great compliment . 
If he had done such a thing , he would certainly have been refused . 
I can tell that he really hates you . 
Of course , Ethel , when a man lends his money as an obligation he expects to get it back again . 
Mostyn got every farthing due him , and he wanted one of the finest manors in Eng land in return for the obligation . 
He did not get it , thank God and my father ! He will not forget your father's interference . 
I hope he will remember it . 
Do you know who furnished the money to pay Fred ? He says he is sure your father did not have it . 
Tell him to ask my father . 
He might even ask your father . 
Whether my father had the money or not was immaterial . 
Father could borrow any sum he wanted , I think . 
Whom did he borrow from ? I am sure that Fred told you to ask that question . 
Is he writing to you , Dora ? Suppose he is ? I cannot suppose such a thing . 
This was the beginning of a series of events all more or less qualified to bring about unspeakable misery in Basil's home . 
But there is nothing in life like the marriage tie . 
The tugs it will bear and not break , the wrongs it will look over , the chronic misunderstandings it will forgive , make it one of the mysteries of humanity . 
It was not in a day or a week that Basil Stanhope's dream of love and home was shattered . 
But Ethel saw what he did not see , that Mostyn was gradually inspiring her with his own opinions , perhaps even with his own passion . 
In this emergency , however , she was gratified to find that Dora's mother appeared to have grasped the situation . 
The young husband used every art and persuasion and failed . 
And his failure was too apparent to be slighted . 
He became feverish and nervous , and his friends read his misery in eyes heavy with unshed tears , and in the wasting pallor caused by his sleepless , sorrowful nights . 
Dora also showed signs of the change so rapidly working on her . 
She was sullen and passionate by turns she complained bitterly to Ethel that her youth and beauty had been wasted that she was only nineteen , and her life was over . 
She wanted to go to Paris , to get away from New York anywhere and anyhow . 
She began to dislike even the presence of Basil . 
His stately beauty offended her , his low , calm voice was the very keynote of irritation . 
One morning near Christmas he came to her with a smiling , radiant face . 
Dora , he said , Dora , my love , I have something so interesting to tell you . 
Mrs. Colby and Mrs. Schaffler and some other ladies have a beautiful idea . 
They wish to give all the children of the church under eight years old the grandest Christmas tree imaginable really rich presents and they thought you might like to have it here . 
What do you say , Basil ! You were always so fond of children . 
You I never could endure them . 
We all thought you might enjoy it . 
Indeed , I was so sure that I promised for you . 
It will be such a pleasure to me also , dear . 
I will have no such childish nonsense in my house . 
I promised it , Dora . 
You had no right to do so . 
My father bought it and gave me it , and it is my own . 
I It seems , then , that I intrude in your house . 
Is it so ? Speak , Dora . 
If you will ask questions you must take the answer . 
You do intrude when you come with such ridiculous proposals in fact , you intrude very often lately . 
Does Mr. Mostyn intrude ? Mr. Mostyn takes me out , gives me a little sensible pleasure . 
You think I can be interested in a Christmas tree . 
The idea ! Alas , alas , Dora , you are tired of me ! You do not love me ! You do not love me ! I love nobody . 
I am sorry I got married . 
It was all a mistake . 
I will go home and then you can get a divorce . 
At this last word the whole man changed . 
He was suffused , transfigured with an anger that was at once righteous and impetuous . 
How dare you use that word to me ? he demanded . 
To the priest of God no such word exists . 
I do not know it . 
You are my wife , willing or unwilling . 
You are my wife forever , whether you dwell with me or not . 
You cannot sever bonds the Almighty has tied . 
She flung herself on the sofa in a whirlwind of passion . 
She cried aloud against his claim . 
She gave herself up to a vehement rage that was strongly infused with a childish dismay and panic . 
I will not be your wife forever ! she shrieked . 
Anything that is right , reasonable I will do . 
I will go to my father . 
I will never come back to you . 
And with these words she rose , threw off his embrace , and with a sobbing cry ran , like a terrified child , out of the room . 
He sat down exhausted by his emotion , and sick with the thought she had evoked in that one evil word . 
He must throw off his cassock , and turn away from the sacred aisles he must he could not say the word he would wait a little . 
Dora would not leave him it was impossible . 
He waited in a trance of aching suspense . 
Nothing for an hour or more broke it no footfall , no sound of command or complaint . 
He was finally in hopes that Dora slept . 
Then he was called to lunch , and he made a pretense of eating it alone . 
Dora sent no excuse for her absence , and he could not trust himself to make inquiry about her . 
In the middle of the afternoon he heard a carriage drive to the door , and Dora , with her jewel case in her hand , entered it and was driven away . 
He ran to her room , and found her maid packing her clothing . 
The woman answered his questions sullenly . 
She said Mrs. Stanhope had gone to Mrs. Denning's , and had left orders for her trunks to be sent there . 
Beyond this she was silent and ignorant . 
No sympathy for either husband or wife was in her heart . 
Their quarrel was interfering with her own plans she hated both of them in consequence . 
In the meantime Dora had reached her home . 
Her mother was dismayed and hesitating , and her attitude raised again in Dora's heart the passion which had provoked the step she had taken . 
She wept like a lost child . 
She exclaimed against the horror of being Basil's wife forever and ever . 
She reproached her mother for suffering her to marry while she was only a child . 
She said she had been cruelly used in order to get the family into social recognition . 
She was in a frenzy of grief at her supposed sacrifice when her father came home . 
Her case was then won . 
With her arms round his neck , sobbing against his heart , her tears and entreaties on his lips , Ben Denning had no feeling and no care for anyone but his daughter . 
He took her view of things at once . 
She HAD been badly used . 
It WAS a shame to tie a girl like Dora to sermons and such like . 
It was like shutting her up in a convent . 
Dora's tears and complaints fired him beyond reason . 
He promised her freedom whatever it cost him . 
And while he sat in his private room considering the case , all the racial passions of his rough ancestry burning within him , Basil Stanhope called to see him . 
He permitted him to come into his presence , but he rose as he entered , and walked hastily a few steps to meet him . 
What do you want here , sir ? he asked . 
You shall not see her . 
I have taken her back to my own care . 
No one can take her from me . 
I will teach you a different lesson . 
The law of the land goes here . 
You'll find it more than you can defy . 
Sir , I entreat you to let me speak to Dora . 
I will stay here until I see her . 
I will give you five minutes . 
I do not wish to offer your profession an insult if you have any respect for it you will obey me . 
Answer me one question what have I done wrong ? A man can be so intolerably right , that he becomes unbearably wrong . 
You have no business with a wife and a home . 
You are a d sight too good for a good little girl that wants a bit of innocent amusement . 
Sermons and Christmas trees ! Great Scott , what sensible woman would not be sick of it all ? Sir , I don't want another minute of your company . 
Little wonder that my Dora is ill with it . 
Oblige me by leaving my house as quietly as possible . 
And he walked to the door , flung it open , and stood glaring at the distracted husband . 
My lawyer will see you in the future . 
I have nothing further to say to you . 
Basil went , but not to his desolate home . 
He sank to the floor at the foot of the large cross which hung on its bare white walls . 
Grief's illimitable wave went over him , and like a drowning man he uttered an inarticulate cry of agony the cry of a soul that had wronged its destiny . 
Love had betrayed him to ruin . 
All he had done must be abandoned . 
All he had won must be given up . 
Sin and shame indeed it would be if in his person a sacrament of the Church should be dragged through a divorce court . 
All other considerations paled before this disgrace . 
He must resign his curacy , strip himself of the honorable livery of heaven , obliterate his person and his name . 
It was a kind of death . 
After awhile he rose , drank some water , lifted the shade and let the moonlight in . 
Then about that little room he walked with God through the long night , telling Him his sorrow and perplexity . 
And there is a depth in our own nature where the divine and human are one . 
That night Basil Stanhope found it , and henceforward knew that the bitterness of death was behind him , not before . 
I made my nest too dear on earth , he sighed , and it has been swept bare that is , that I may build in heaven . 
Now , the revelation of sorrow is the clearest of all revelations . 
Stanhope understood that hour what he must do . 
No doubts weakened his course . 
He told no one where he was going he dropped as silently and dumbly out of the life that had known him as a stone dropped into mid ocean . 
Ethel considered herself fortunate in being from home at the time this disastrous culmination of Basil Stanhope's married life was reached . 
Bryce was her first informant . 
He called specially to give her the news . 
He said his sister had been too ill and too busy to write . 
He had no word of sympathy for the unhappy pair . 
He spoke only of the anxiety it had caused him . 
He was now engaged , he said , to Miss Caldwell , and she was such an extremely proper , innocent lady , and a member of St . 
Jude's , it had really been a trying time for her . 
Bryce also reminded Ethel that he had been against Basil Stanhope from the first . 
He had always known how that marriage would end , and so on . 
Ethel declined to give any opinion . 
She must hear both sides , she said . 
Dora had been so reasonable lately , she had appeared happy . 
Oh , Dora is a little fox , he replied she doubles on herself always . 
She wondered if any married woman was really happy . 
She did not apparently concern herself about Basil . 
The Judge rather leaned to Basil's consideration . 
He understood that Dora's overt act had shattered his professional career as well as his personal happiness . 
He could feel for the man there . 
My dears , he said , with his dilettante air , the goddess Calamity is delicate , and her feet are tender . 
She treads not upon the ground , but makes her path upon the hearts of men . 
Ethel could only wonder at the lack of real sympathy . 
In the morning she went to see her grandmother . 
The old lady had heard all she wanted to hear about Dora and Basil Stanhope . 
If men would marry a fool because she was young and pretty , they must take the consequences . 
And why should Stanhope have married at all ? she asked indignantly . 
No man can serve God and a woman at the same time . 
He had to be a bad priest and a good husband , or a bad husband and a good priest . 
Basil Stanhope was honored , was doing good , and he must needs be happy also . 
He wanted too much , and lost everything . 
All can now find some fault in poor Basil Stanhope , said Ethel . 
Bryce was bitter against him because Miss Caldwell shivers at the word divorce . 
What has Bryce to do with Jane Caldwell ? He is going to marry her , he says . 
Like enough she's a merry miss of two score , and rich . 
Bryce's marriage with anyone will be a well considered affair a marriage with all the advantages of a good bargain . 
I'm tired of the whole subject . 
If women will marry they should be as patient as Griselda , in case there ever was such a woman if not , there's an end of the matter . 
There are no Griseldas in this century , grandmother . 
Then there ought to be no marriages . 
Basil Stanhope was a grand man in public . 
What kind of a man was he in his home ? Measure a man by his home conduct , and you'll not go wrong . 
It's the right place to draw your picture of him , I can tell you that . 
He has no home now , poor fellow . 
Whose fault was it ? God only knows . 
Where is his wife ? She has gone to Paris . 
She has gone to the right place if she wants to play the fool . 
But there , now , God forbid I should judge her in the dark . 
Women should stand by women considering . 
Considering ? What they may have to put up with . 
It is easy to see faults in others . 
I have sometimes met with people who should see faults in themselves . 
They are rather uncommon , though . 
I am sure Basil Stanhope will be miserable all his life . 
He will break his heart , I do believe . 
A good heart is hard to break , it grows strong in trouble . 
Basil Stanhope's body will fail long before his heart does and even so an end must come to life , and after that peace or what God wills . 
This scant sympathy Ethel found to be the usual tone among her acquaintances . 
Jude's got a new rector and a new idol , and the Stanhope affair was relegated to the limbo of things it was proper to forget . 
And then also Each day brings its petty dust , Our soon choked souls to fill And we forget because we must , And not because we will . 
One evening when May with heavy clouds and slant rains was making the city as miserable as possible , Ethel had a caller . 
His card bore a name quite unknown , and his appearance gave no clew to his identity . 
Mr. Edmonds ? she said interrogatively . 
Are you Miss Ethel Rawdon ? he asked . 
Mr. Basil Stanhope told me to put this parcel in your hands . 
Oh , Mr. Stanhope ! I am glad to hear from him . 
Where is he now ? We buried him yesterday . 
He died last Sunday as the bells were ringing for church pneumonia , miss . 
While reading the ser vice over a poor young man he had nursed many weeks he took cold . 
The poor will miss him sorely . 
DEAD ! She looked aghast at the speaker , and again ejaculated the pitiful , astounding word . 
I promised him to return at once to the work he left me to do . 
And he quietly departed , leaving Ethel standing with the parcel in her hands . 
She ran upstairs and locked it away . 
Just then she could not bear to open it . 
And it is hardly twelve months since he was married , she sobbed . 
Oh , Ruth , Ruth , it is too cruel ! Dear , answered Ruth , there is no death to such a man as Basil Stanhope . 
He was so young , Ruth . 
For his soul pleased the Lord , therefore hasted He to take him away from among the wicked . 
And that evening there was little conversation . 
Every heart was busy with its own thoughts . 
Wisdom of Solomon , IV . 
For he told Ethel everything , and received both from her fine intuitions and her father's legal skill priceless comfort and advice . 
It was a lovely day in the beginning of May , nearly two years after their first meeting , when Tyrrel reached New York . 
Ethel knew at what hour his train would arrive , she was watching and listening for his step . 
They met in each other's arms , and the blessed hours of that happy evening were an over payment of delight for the long months of their separation . 
In the morning Ethel was to introduce her lover to Madam Rawdon , and side by side , almost hand in hand , they walked down the avenue together . 
Walked ? They were so happy they hardly knew whether their feet touched earth or not . 
They had a constant inclination to clasp hands , to run as little children run They wished to smile at everyone , to bid all the world good morning . 
Madam had resolved to be cool and careful in her advances , but she quickly found herself unable to resist the sight of so much love and hope and happiness . 
The young people together took her heart by storm , and she felt herself compelled to express an interest in their future , and to question Tyrrel about it . 
What are you going to do with yourself or make of yourself ? she asked Tyrrel one evening when they were sitting together . 
I do hope you'll find some kind of work . 
Anything is better than loafing about clubs and such like places . 
I am going to study law with Judge Rawdon . 
My late experience has taught me its value . 
I do not think I shall loaf in his office . 
Not if he is anywhere around . 
He works and makes others work . 
Lawyering is a queer business , but men can be honest in it if they want to . 
And , grandmother , said Ethel , my father says Tyrrel has a wonderful gift for public speaking . 
He made a fine speech at father's club last night . 
Tyrrel will go into politics . 
Will he , indeed ? Tyrrel is a wonder . 
If he manages to walk his shoes straight in the zigzaggery ways of the law , he will be one of that grand breed called exceptions . 
As for politics , I don't like them , far from it . 
Your grandfather used to say they either found a man a rascal or made him one . 
However , I'm ready to compromise on law and politics . 
I was afraid with his grand voice he would set up for a tenor . 
I did once think of that role , he said . 
Whoever taught you to use your voice knew a thing or two about singing . 
Never ! I wonder now ! She was a famous singer . 
She was a great and a good woman . 
I owe her for every excellent quality there is in me . 
You have got your black eyes and hair her way , I'll warrant that , but your solid make up , your pluck and grit and perseverance is the Rawdon in you . 
Without Rawdon you would very likely now be strutting about some opera stage , playing at kings and lovemaking . 
As it is As it is , you will be lord consort of Rawdon Manor , with a silver mine to back you . 
I am sorry about the Manor , said Tyrrel . 
I wish the dear old Squire were alive to meet Ethel and myself . 
To be sure you do . 
But I dare say that he is glad now to have passed out of it . 
Death is a mystery to those left , but I have no doubt it is satisfying to those who have gone away . 
So Death the Deliverer found him . 
A good going home ! Nothing to fear in it . 
Ethel tells me that Mr. Mostyn is now living at Mostyn Hall . 
Yes , he married that girl he would have sold his soul for and took her there , four months only after her husband's death . 
When I was young he durst not have done it , the Yorkshire gentry would have cut them both . 
I think , said Tyrrel , American gentlemen of to day felt much the same . 
Will Madison told me that the club cut him as soon as Mrs. Stanhope left her husband . 
Well , said Madam , if it came to kicking , two could play that game . 
I don't want to hear another word about them . 
They will punish each other without our help . 
I hope you are not going to have a crowd at your wedding . 
The quietest weddings are the luckiest ones . 
About twenty of our most intimate friends are invited to the church , said Ethel . 
There will be no reception until we return to New York in the fall . 
No need of fuss here , there will be enough when you reach Monk Rawdon . 
The village will be garlanded and flagged , the bells ring ing , and all your tenants and retainers out to meet you . 
We intend to get into our own home without anyone being aware of it . 
Come , Tyrrel , my dressmaker is waiting , I know . 
It is my wedding gown , dear Granny , and oh , so lovely ! You will not be any smarter than I intend to be , miss . 
You are shut off from color . 
I am sure you can and will . 
What can he want ? They met him at the door , and with a few laughing words left him with Madam . 
She looked curiously into his face and asked , What is it , Edward ? I suppose they have told you all the arrangements . 
Did they say anything about Ruth ? They never named her . 
They said they were going to Washington for a week , and then to Rawdon Court . 
Ruth seems out of it all . 
Are you going to turn her adrift , or present her with a few thousand dollars ? She has been a mother to Ethel . 
Something ought to be done for Ruth Bayard . 
I intend to marry her . 
She will go to her sister's in Philadelphia for a month 's preparation . 
I shall marry her there , and bring her home as my wife . 
She is a sweet , gentle , docile woman . 
She will make me happy . 
Sweet , gentle , docile ! Yes , that is the style of wife Rawdon men prefer . 
What does Ethel say ? She is delighted . 
I was much pleased with her thoughtfulness . 
Any serious break in my life would now be a great discomfort . 
You need not look so satirical , mother I thought of Ruth's life also . 
Also an afterthought but Ruth is gentle and docile , and she is satisfied , and I am satisfied , so then everything is proper and everyone content . 
Come for me at ten on Wednesday morning . 
No refreshments , I suppose . 
I must look after my own breakfast . 
Won't you feel a bit shabby , Edward ? And then the look and handclasp between them turned every word into sweetness and good will . 
Yet everyone may imagine the white loveli ness of the bride , the joy of the bridegroom , the calm happiness of the family breakfast , and the leisurely , quiet leave taking . 
The whole ceremony was the right note struck at the beginning of a new life , and they might justly expect it would move onward in melodious sequence . 
Within three weeks after their marriage they arrived at Rawdon Court . 
It was on a day and at an hour when no one was looking for them , and they stepped into the lovely home waiting for them without outside observation . 
Hiring a carriage at the railway station , they dismissed it at the little bridge near the Manor House , and sauntered happily through the intervening space . 
On the long table the broad , white beaver hat of the dead Squire was lying , and his oak walking stick was beside it . 
No one had liked to remove them . 
They remained just as he had put them down , that last , peaceful morning of his life . 
In a few minutes the whole household was aware of their home coming , and before the day was over the whole neighborhood . 
Then there was no way of avoiding the calls , the congratulations , and the entertainments that followed , and the old Court was once more the center of a splendid hospitality . 
Of course the Tyrrel Rawdons were first on the scene , and Ethel was genuinely glad to meet again the good natured Mrs. Nicholas . 
No one could give her better local advice , and Ethel quickly discovered that the best general social laws require a local interpretation . 
Are the Mostyns at the Hall ? she asked Mrs. Nicholas at last . 
I have been expecting Mrs. Mostyn every day , but she neither comes nor writes to me . 
Poor little woman ! I'll warrant she has been forbid to do either . 
If Mostyn thought she wanted to see you , he would watch day and night to prevent her coming . 
He's turning out as cruel a man as his father was , and you need not say a word worse than that . 
Cruel ! Oh , dear , how dreadful ! Men will drink and cheat and swear , but a cruel man seems so unnatural , so wicked . 
To be sure , cruelty is the joy of devils . 
As I said to John Thomas when we heard about Mostyn's goings on , we have got rid of the Wicked One , but the wicked still remain with us . 
Ethel was amazed , and finally angry at what she heard . 
Dora was her countrywoman and her friend she instantly began to express her sympathy and her intention of interfering . 
You had better neither meddle nor make in the matter , answered Mrs. Rawdon . 
Our Lucy went to see her , and gave her some advice about managing Yorkshiremen . 
And as she was talking Mostyn came in , and was as rude as he dared to be . 
Then Lucy asked him if he was sick . 
And Lucy laughed , and said , In that case he would have to go to his looking glass for company . 
Then the doctor told Mostyn what he thought , and there is a quarrel between them every time they meet . 
But Ethel was not deterred by these statements on the contrary , they stimulated her interest in her friend . 
Dora needed her , and the old feeling of protection stirred her to interference . 
You can drive me there , she said , then go and see Justice Manningham and call for me in half an hour . 
And this resolution was strengthened by a pitiful little note received from Dora just after her decision . 
Mostyn has gone to Thirsk , it said for pity's sake come and see me about two o'clock this afternoon . 
The request was promptly answered . 
As the clock struck two Ethel crossed the threshold of the home that might have been hers . 
She shuddered at the thought . 
Dora rose in a passion of tears to welcome her , and because time was short instantly began her pitiful story . 
You know how he adored me once , she said would you believe it , Ethel , we were not two weeks married when he began to hate me . 
He dragged me through Europe in blazing heat and blinding snows when I was sick and unfit to move . 
After he heard that you had bought the Manor he lost all control of himself . 
He will not let me sleep . 
He walks the floor hour after hour , declaring he could have had you and the finest manor in England but for a cat faced woman like me . 
And he blames me for poor Basil's death says we murdered him together , and that he sees blood on my hands . 
And she looked with terror at her small , thin hands , and held them up as if to protest against the charge . 
Do not cry so bitterly , Dora , it hurts me . 
Is there nothing you can do ? I want to go to mother . 
Then she drew Ethel's head close to her and whispered a few words , and Ethel answered , You poor little one , you shall go to your mother . 
Where is she ? She will be in London next week , and I must see her . 
He will not let me go , but go I must if I die for it . 
Mrs. John Thomas Rawdon told me what to do , and I have been following her advice . 
Ethel did not ask what it was , but added , If Tyrrel and I can help you , send for us . 
And , Dora , do stop weeping , and be brave . 
Remember you are an American woman . 
Your father has often told me how you could ride with Indians or cowboys and shoot with any miner in Colorado . 
A bully like Mostyn is always a coward . 
Lift up your heart and stand for every one of your rights . 
You will find plenty of friends to stand with you . 
When shall I come again , Dora ? Not till I send for you . 
Mother will be in London next Wednesday at the Savoy . 
I intend to leave here Wednesday some time , and may need you will you come ? Surely , both Tyrrel and I. Then the time being on a dangerous line they parted . 
But Ethel could think of nothing and talk of nothing but the frightful change in her friend , and the unceasing misery which had produced it . 
Tyrrel shared all her indignation . 
When Wednesday arrived he did not leave the house , but waited with Ethel for the message they confidently expected . 
It came about five o'clock urgent , imperative , entreating , Come , for God's sake ! He will kill me . 
The carriage was ready , and in half an hour they were at Mostyn Hall . 
No one answered their summons , but as they stood listening and waiting , a shrill cry of pain and anger pierced the silence . 
It was followed by loud voices and a confused noise noise of many talking and exclaiming . 
Then Tyrrel no longer hesitated . 
He opened the door easily , and taking Ethel on his arm , suddenly entered the parlor from which the clamor came . 
Dora stood in the center of the room like an enraged pythoness , her eyes blazing with passion . 
The witch ! The cat faced woman ! he screamed . 
Out of my house ! What are you doing here ? Away ! This is my house ! Out of it immediately ! This man is insane , said Tyrrel to Dora . 
Put on your hat and cloak , and come home with us . 
I am waiting for Justice Manningham , she answered with a calm subsidence of passion that angered Mostyn more than her reproaches . 
I have sent for him . 
He will be here in five minutes now . 
That brute pointing to Mostyn must be kept under guard till I reach my mother . 
The magistrate will bring a couple of constables with him . 
This is a plot , then ! You hear it ! You ! You , Tyrrel Rawdon , and you , Saint Ethel , are in it , all here on time . 
A plot , I say ! Let me loose that I may strangle the cat faced creature . 
And when nothing else could cow Mostyn , he was cowed by the law . 
I entreat your Honor , she said , to permit me to go to my mother who is now in London . 
And he answered kindly , You shall go . 
You are in a condition only a mother can help and comfort . 
As soon as I have taken your deposition you shall go . 
No one paid any attention to Mostyn's disclaimers and denials . 
The Justice saw the state of affairs . 
She thanked him , weeping , and in her old , pretty way kissed his hands , and vowed he had saved her life , and she would forever remember his goodness . 
Mostyn mocked at her play acting , and was sternly reproved by the Justice and then Tyrrel and Ethel took charge of Mrs. Mostyn until she was ready to leave for London . 
She was more nearly ready than they ex pected . 
All her trunks were packed , and the butler promised to take them immediately to the railway station . 
In a quarter of an hour she appeared in traveling costume , with her jewels in a bag , which she carried in her hand . 
It was , perhaps , a necessary but a painful meal . 
He was enforced to sit still and watch its progress , which he accompanied with curses it would be a kind of sacrilege to write down . 
But no one answered him , and no one noticed the orders he gave for his own dinner , until Dora rose to leave forever the house of bondage . 
After my train leaves you are all free to go to your own homes . 
Farewell , friends ! Then Mostyn raved again , and finally tried his old loving terms . 
Come back to me , Dora , he called frantically . 
Come back , dearest , sweetest Dora , I will be your lover forever . 
I will never say another cross word to you . 
But Dora heard not and saw not . 
She left the room without a glance at the man sitting cowering between the officers , and blubbering with shame and passion and the sense of total loss . 
In a few minutes he heard the Rawdon carriage drive to the door . 
Tyrrel and Ethel assisted Dora into it , and the party drove at once to the railway station . 
They were just able to catch the London train . 
That depression which so often follows the lifting of burdens not intended for our shoulders weighed on their hearts and made speech difficult . 
Tyrrel was especially affected by it . 
Tyrrel opened the subject by a question as to whether he ought to have gone with Dora to London . 
Dora opposed the idea strongly when I named it to her , answered Ethel . 
She said it would give opportunities for Mostyn to slander both herself and you , and I think she was correct . 
Every way she was best alone . 
There is no need , answered Ethel a little coldly . 
It is a terrible position for Mostyn . 
He is so sensitive about public opinion . 
In that case he should behave decently in private . 
Then Tyrrel lit another cigar , and there was another silence , which Ethel occupied in irritating thoughts of Dora's unfortunate fatality in trouble making . 
She sat at a little table standing between herself and Tyrrel . 
It held his smoking utensils , and after awhile she pushed them aside , and let the splendid rings which adorned her hand fall into the cleared space . 
I am looking at the Ring of all Rings . 
See , Tyrrel , it is but a little band of gold , and yet it gave me more than all the gems of earth could buy . 
Rubies and opals and sapphires are only its guard . 
The simple wedding ring is the ring of great price . 
It is the loveliest ornament a happy woman can wear . 
The Ring of all Rings ! she ejaculated again , as she lifted the rubies and opals , and slowly but smilingly encircled the little gold band . 
Let us try now to forget that sorrowful woman , said Tyrrel . 
She will be with her mother in a few hours . 
Mother love can cure all griefs . 
It is always young and warm and true . 
Let us forget we can do no more . 
For a couple of days this was possible , but then came Mrs. Nicholas Rawdon , and the subject was perforce opened . 
It was a bad case , she said , but it is being settled as quickly and as quietly as possible . 
I believe the man has entered into some sort of recognizance to keep the peace , and has disappeared . 
No one will look for him . 
The gentry are against pulling one another down in any way , and this affair they don't want talked about . 
And Squire Bentley said , If English gentlemen would marry American women , they must put up with American women's ways , and so on . 
None of them think it prudent to approve Mrs. Mostyn's course . 
But they won't get off as easy as they think . 
The women are standing up for her . 
Our Lucy , I suspect , had more to do with the move than she will confess . 
She got a lot of new , queer notions at college , and I do believe in my heart she set the poor woman up to the business . 
So has Nicholas , though he bluffs more than a little as to what he'd do with a wife that got a running away notion into her head . 
Bless you , dear , they are all formulating their laws on the subject , and their wives are smiling queerly at them , and holding their heads a bit higher than usual . 
I've been doing it myself , so I know how they feel . 
Thus , though very little was said in the newspapers about the affair , the notoriety Mostyn dreaded was complete and thorough . 
It was the private topic of conversation in every household . 
And for many weeks the busy life of the Manor sufficed there was the hay to cut in the meadow lands , and after it the wheat fields to harvest . 
The stables , the kennels , the farms and timber , the park and the garden kept Tyrrel constantly busy . 
And yet there were times when Tyrrel looked bored , and when nothing but Squire Percival's organ or Ethel's piano seemed to exorcise the unrest and ennui that could not be hid . 
She answered Yes , and as soon as she was alone fell to thinking , and in the midst of her meditation Mrs. Nicholas Rawdon entered in a whirl of tempestuous delight . 
What do you think ? she asked between laughing and crying . 
Whatever do you think ? Our Lucy had twins yesterday , two fine boys as ever was . 
And I wish you could see their grandfather and their father . 
They are out of themselves with joy . 
They stand hour after hour beside the two cradles , looking at the little fellows , and they nearly came to words this morning about their names . 
I am so delighted ! cried Ethel . 
And what are you going to call them ? One is an hour older than the other , and John Thomas wanted them called Percival and Nicholas . 
But my Nicholas wanted the eldest called after himself , and he said so plain enough . 
And John Thomas said he could surely name his own sons and then Nicholas told him to remember he wouldn't have been here to have any sons at all but for his father . 
And has Lucy named them ? To be sure . 
I went right away to her and explained the dilemma , and I said , Now , Lucy , it is your place to settle this question . 
And she answered in her positive little way , You tell father the eldest is to be called Nicholas , and tell John Thomas the youngest is to be called John Thomas . 
I can manage two of that name very well . 
And say that I won't have any more disputing about names , the boys are as good as christened already . 
And of course when Lucy said that we all knew it was settled . 
And I'm glad the eldest is Nicholas . 
Dearie me , Ethel , I am a proud woman this morning . 
And Nicholas is going to give all the hands a holiday , and a trip up to Ambleside on Saturday , though John Thomas is very much against it . 
And I'll pledge you my word John Thomas knows the men he's talking about . 
However , Nicholas is close with his money , and it will do him good happen to lose a bit . 
Blood letting is healthy for the body , and perhaps gold letting may help the soul more than we think for . 
It was near October , however , before she found the proper opportunity for speaking . 
There had been a long letter from the Judge . 
It said Ruth and he were home again after a wonderful trip over the Northern Pacific road . 
He wrote with enthusiasm of the country and its opportunities , and of the big cities they had visited on their return from the Pacific coast . 
Every word was alive , the magnitude and stir of traffic and wrestling humanity seemed to rustle the paper . 
He described New York as overflowing with business . 
Great George ! exclaimed Tyrrel . 
That is life ! That is living ! I wish we were back in America ! So do I , Tyrrel . 
When shall we go ? It is now the twenty eighth of September . 
Are you very weary of Rawdon Court Yes . 
And you want to do something ? You would not have loved a man who did not want TO DO . 
We have been here four months . 
I am not bound in any way to keep Rawdon Court . 
I can sell it to morrow . 
But you would be grieved to do so ? Not at all . 
Being a lady of the Manor does not flatter me . 
The other squires would rather have a good man in my place . 
Why did you buy it ? As I have told you , to keep Mostyn out , and to keep a Rawdon here . 
But Nicholas Rawdon craves the place , and will pay well for his desire . 
It cost me eighty thousand pounds . 
He told father he would gladly give me one hundred thousand pounds whenever I was tired of my bargain . 
I will take the hundred thousand pounds to morrow . 
There would then be four good heirs to Rawdon on the place . 
Here the conversation was interrupted by Mrs. Nicholas , who came to invite them to the christening feast of the twins . 
Tyrrel soon left the ladies together , and Ethel at once opened the desired conversation . 
I am afraid we may have left the Court before the christening , she said . 
Mr. Rawdon is very unhappy here . 
But this is his home , isn't it ? And a very fine one . 
He cannot feel it so . 
He has large interests in America . 
I doubt if I ever induce him to come here again . 
You see , this visit has been our marriage trip . 
And you won't live here ! I never heard the line . 
What will you do with the Court ? It will be badly used if it is left to servants seven or eight months every year . 
I suppose I must sell it . 
I see no If you only would let Nicholas buy it . 
You might be sure then it would be well cared for , and the little lads growing up in it , who would finally heir it . 
Oh , Ethel , if you would think of Nicholas first . 
He would honor the place and be an honor to it . 
Then there followed a busy two weeks for Tyrrel , who had the superintendence of the packing , which was no light business . 
Indeed , their willingness to resign all claims to the old home was a marvel to both Tyrrel and Ethel . 
On their last afternoon there they walked through the garden , and stood under the plane tree where their vows of love had been pledged , and smiled and wondered at their indifference . 
The beauteous glamor of first love was gone as com pletely as the flowers and scents and songs that had then filled the charming place . 
But amid the sweet decay of these things they once more clasped hands , looking with supreme confidence into each other's eyes . 
During their short reign at Rawdon Court they had been very popular , and perhaps their resignation was equally so . 
After all , they were foreigners , and Nicholas Rawdon was Yorkshire , root and branch . 
Nice young people , said Justice Manningham at a hunt dinner , but our ways are not their ways , nor like to be . 
Good enough as they are , mumbled Squire Oakes . 
Nicest Americans I ever met , added Earl Danvers , but Nicholas Rawdon will be better at Rawdon Court . 
To which statement there was a general assent , and then the subject was considered settled . 
They were to be two days in London . 
On the afternoon of the second day this duty was finished , and she returned to her hotel satisfied but a little weary . 
As she was going up the steps she noticed a woman coming slowly down them . 
They met with great enthusiasm on Dora's part , and she turned back and went with Ethel to her room . 
Ethel looked at her with astonishment . 
She was not like any Dora she had previously seen . 
Her beauty had developed wondrously , she had grown much taller , and her childish manner had been superseded by a carriage and air of superb grace and dignity . 
She had now a fine color , and her eyes were darker , softer , and more dreamy than ever . 
Take off your hat , Dora , said Ethel , and tell me what has happened . 
Where is Mr. Mostyn ? I neither know nor care . 
He is tramping round the world after me , and I intend to keep him at it . 
I must tell you how THAT has come about . 
We heard from Mrs. Denning . 
She said she had received you safely . 
My dear mother ! She met me like an angel comforted and cared for me , never said one word of blame , only kissed and pitied me . 
We talked things over , and she advised me to go to New York . 
So we took three passages under the names of Mrs. John Gifford , Miss Gifford , and Miss Diana Gifford . 
Miss Diana was my maid , but mother thought a party of three would throw Mostyn off our track . 
On the second day out I had a son . 
The poor little fellow died in a few hours , and was buried at sea . 
But his birth has given me the power to repay to Fred Mostyn some of the misery he caused me . 
How so ? I do not see . 
Oh , you must see , if you will only remember how crazy Englishmen are about their sons . 
Daughters don't count , you know , but a son carries the property in the family name . 
He is its representative for the next generation . 
As I lay suffering and weeping , a fine scheme of revenge came clearly to me . 
Listen ! Soon after we got home mother cabled Mostyn's lawyer that Mrs. Mostyn had had a son . 
Nothing was said of the boy's death . 
Almost immediately I was notified that Mr. Mostyn would insist on the surrender of the child to his care . 
I took no notice of the letters . 
Then he sent his lawyer to claim the child and a woman to take care of it . 
I laughed them to scorn , and defied them to find the child . 
After them came Mostyn himself . 
And the man is becoming a monomaniac about HIS SON . 
Are you doing right , Dora ? If you only knew how he had tortured me ! Father and mother think he deserves all I can do to him . 
Anyway , he will have it to bear . 
If he goes to the asylum he threatened me with , I shall be barely satisfied . 
The cat faced woman' is getting her innings now . 
You shall never see his face in this world . 
I have taken good care of that . 
I will find him some day , he said , and I laughed at him , and answered , He is too cunningly hid . 
Do you think I would let the boy know he had such a father as you ? No , indeed . 
Not unless there was property for the disgrace . 
I touched him on the raw in that remark , and then I got into my carriage and told the coachman to drive quickly . 
Mostyn attempted to follow me , but the whip lashing the horses was in the way . 
And Dora laughed , and the laugh was cruel and mocking and full of meaning . 
Dora , how can you ? How can you find pleasure in such revenges , I am having the greatest satisfaction of my life . 
And I am only beginning the just retribution , for my beauty is enthralling the man again , and he is on the road to a mad jealousy of me . 
Why don't you get a divorce ? This is a case for that remedy . 
He might then marry again , and you also . 
Even so , I should still torment him . 
I am binding him to misery on every hand . 
Is Mrs. Denning here with you ? Both my father and mother are with me . 
Father is going to take a year's rest , and we shall visit Berlin , Vienna , Rome , Paris or wherever our fancy leads us . 
And Mr. Mostyn ? He can follow me round , and see nobles and princes and kings pay court to the beauty of the cat faced woman . 
I shall never notice him , never speak to him but you need not look so suspicious , Ethel . 
Neither by word nor deed will I break a single convention of the strictest respectability . 
Mr. Mostyn ought to give you your freedom . 
I have given freedom to myself . 
I have already divorced him . 
When they brought my dead baby for me to kiss , I slipped into its little hand the ring that made me his mother . 
They went to the bottom of the sea together . 
As for ever marrying again , not in this life . 
I have had enough of it . 
My first husband was the sweetest saint out of heaven , and my second was some mean little demon that had sneaked his way out of hell and I found both insupportable . 
She lifted her hat as she spoke , and began to pin it on her beautifully dressed hair . 
Have no fear for me , she continued . 
I am sure Basil watches over me . 
Some day I shall be good , and he will be happy . 
Then , hand in hand , they walked to the door together , and there were tears in both voices as they softly said Good by . 
CHAPTER XII A WEEK after this interview Tyrrel and Ethel were in New York . 
Tyrrel was boyishly excited , but Ethel's interest could not leave her father and his new wife . 
These two had lived in the same home for fifteen years , and then they had married each other , and both of them looked fifteen years younger . 
The Judge was actually merry , and Ruth , in spite of her supposed docility , had quite reversed the situation . 
It was the Judge who was now docile , and even admiringly obedient to all Ruth's wifely advices and admonitions . 
The breakfast was a talkative , tardy one , but at length the Judge went to his office and Tyrrel had to go to the Custom House . 
Ethel was eager to see her grandmother , and she was sure the dear old lady was anxiously waiting her arrival . 
And Ruth was just as anxious for Ethel to visit her renovated home . 
She had the young wife's delight in its beauty , and she wanted Ethel to admire it with her . 
We will dine with you to morrow , Ruth , said Ethel , and I will come very early and see all the improvements . 
I feel sure the house is lovely , and I am glad father made you such a pretty nest . 
Nothing is too pretty for you , Ruth . 
And there was no insincerity in this compliment . 
These two women knew and loved and trusted each other without a shadow of doubt or variableness . 
So Ruth went to her home , and Ethel hastened to Gramercy Park . 
Madam was eagerly watching for her arrival . 
I have been impatient for a whole hour , all in a quiver , dearie , she cried . 
I have been impatient also , Granny , but father and Ruth met us at the pier and stayed to breakfast with us , and you know how men talk and talk . 
Ruth and father down at the pier ! How you dream ! They were really there . 
And they do seem so happy , grandmother . 
They are so much in love with each other . 
There are no fools like old fools . 
So you have sold the Court to Nicholas Rawdon , and a cotton spinner is Lord of the Manor . 
Well , well , how are the mighty fallen ! I made twenty thousand pounds by the sale . 
Nicholas Rawdon is a gentleman , and John Thomas is the most popular man in all the neighborhood . 
And , Granny , he has two sons twins the handsomest little chaps you ever saw . 
No fear of a Rawdon to heir the Manor now . 
When she is ill to a man she knows no reason . 
She sent John Thomas to Parliament , and kept Fred out at a loss , too . 
Poor Fred ! Well , grandmother , it is poor Fred's' own doing , and , I assure you , Fred would have been most unwelcome at the Court . 
And the squires and gentry round did not like a woman in the place they were at a loss what to do with me . 
I was no good for dinners and politics and hunting . 
They would have to talk decently and behave politely , and they would not be able to tell their choicest stories . 
Your presence would be a bore but could not Tyrrel take your place ? Granny , Tyrrel was really unhappy in that kind of life . 
And he was a foreigner , so was I. You know what Yorkshire people think of foreigners . 
They were very courteous , but they were glad to have the Yorkshire Rawdons in our place . 
And Tyrrel did not like working with the earth he loves machinery and electricity . 
When a man has got used to delving for gold or silver , cutting grass and wheat does seem a slow kind of business . 
And he disliked the shut up feeling the park gave him . 
He said we were in the midst of solitude three miles thick . 
It made him depressed and lonely . 
I am sure on the Western plains he had solitude sixty miles thick often . 
Very likely , but then he had an horizon , even if it were sixty miles away . 
And no matter how far he rode , there was always that line where earth seemed to rise to heaven . 
But the park was surrounded by a brick wall fourteen feet high . 
You felt as if you were in a large , green box at least Tyrrel did . 
The wall was covered with roses and ivy , but still it was a boundary you could not pass , and could not see over . 
Don't you understand , Granny , how Tyrrel would feel this ? I can't say I do . 
Why didn't he come with you ? He had to go to the Customs about our trunks , and there were other things . 
He will see you to morrow . 
Then we are going to dine with father , and if you will join us , we will call at six for you . 
Very well , I shall be ready . 
But after a moment's thought she continued , No , I will not go . 
I am only a mortal woman , and the company of angels bores me yet . 
Now , Granny , dear . 
I mean what I say . 
Your father has married such a piece of perfection that I feel my shortcomings in her presence more than I can bear . 
But I'll tell you what , dearie , Tyrrel may come for me Saturday night at six , and I will have my dinner with you . 
And Tyrrel may buy me a bunch of white violets . 
I am none too old to wear them . 
Who knows but I may go to the theater also ? Oh , Granny , you are just the dearest young lady I know ! Tyrrel will be as proud as a peacock . 
Well , I am not as young as I might be , but I am a deal younger than I look . 
Oliver Wendell Holmes wrote it , and I'll warrant him for a good , cheerful , trust in God man , or he'd never have thought of such sensible words . 
I am listening , Granny , for the verse . 
Yes , and learn it yourself . 
At ninety five , Should thou arrive , Still wait on God , and work and thrive . 
Such words as those , Ethel , keep a woman young , and make her right glad that she was born and thankful that she lives . 
Thank you for them , dear Granny . 
Now I must run away as fast as I can . 
Tyrrel will be wondering what has happened to me . 
In this conjecture she was right . 
Tyrrel was in evening dress , and walking restlessly about their private parlor . 
Ethel , he said , plaintively , I have been so uneasy about you . 
I am all right , dearest . 
I shall be ready in half an hour . 
It was a joy to see her , a delight to hear her speak , and she walked as if she heard music . 
The dining room was crowded when they entered , but they made a sensation . 
Many rose and came to welcome them home . 
Others smiled across the busy space and lifted their wineglass in recognition . 
The room was electric , sensitive and excited . 
It was flooded with a soft light it was full of the perfume of flowers . 
The brilliant coloring of silks and satins , and the soft miracle of white lace blended with the artistically painted walls and roof . 
To eat in such surroundings was as far beyond the famous flower crowned feasts of Rome and Greece as the east is from the west . 
It was impossible to resist its influence . 
From the point of the senses , the soul was drinking life out of a cup of overflowing delight . 
Their eyes were shining , their hearts thrilling , they went to their own apartments hand in hand , buoyant , vivacious , feeling that life was good and love unchangeable . 
And the windows being open , they walked to one and stood looking out upon the avenue . 
We cannot go out to night , said Ethel . 
We are both more weary than we know . 
We are in New York again ! There is no city like it in all the world . 
Men live here , they work here , they enjoy here . 
They magnified their joy , they wondered at it , they were sure no one before them had ever loved as they loved . 
In her cities may peace and prosperity dwell , And her daughters in virtue and beauty excel . 
May the blessing of God ever hallow the sod , And its valleys and hills by our children be trod . 
And as they thus communed Tyrrel took his wife's hand and slowly turned on her finger the plain gold wedding ring behind its barrier of guarding gems . 
And , Tyrrel , it will also turn all our Realities into Romances . 
Nothing in our life will ever become common . 
And we shall always love as we love now ? We shall love far better , far stronger , far more tenderly . 
Even to the end of our lives , Ethel ? Yes , to the very end . 
CHAPTER XIII A PAUSE of blissful silence followed this assurance . 
It was broken by a little exclamation from Ethel . 
Oh , dear , she said , how selfishly thoughtless my happiness makes me ! I have forgotten to tell you , until this moment , that I have a letter from Dora . 
It was sent to grandmother's care , and I got it this afternoon also one from Lucy Rawdon . 
The two together bring Dora's affairs , I should say , to a pleasanter termination than we could have hoped for . 
Where is the Enchantress ? In Paris at present . 
But listen , she is living the quietest of lives the most devoted daughter cannot excel her . 
Is she her own authority for that astonishing statement ? Do you believe it ? Yes , under the circumstances . 
Mr. Denning went to Paris for a critical and painful operation , and Dora is giving all her love and time toward making his convalescence as pleasant as it can be . 
In fact , her description of their life in the pretty chateau they have rented outside of Paris is quite idyllic . 
When her father is able to travel they are going to Algiers for the winter , and will return to New York about next May . 
Dora says she never intends to leave America again . 
Where is her husband ? Keeping watch on the French chateau ? That is over . 
Mr. Denning persuaded Dora to write a statement of all the facts concerning the birth of the child . 
He proved its correctness , and then wrote Mr. Denning a very contemptible letter . 
How could he ? How could he ? Of course Mr. Denning sent him a check , a pretty large one , I dare say . 
And I suppose he has his freedom by this time , unless he has married again . 
He will never marry again . 
Indeed , that is the strange part of the story . 
It was because he wanted to marry again that he was fervently , feverishly awaiting his freedom . 
I can hardly believe it , Ethel . 
What does Dora say ? I have the news from Lucy . 
She says when Mostyn was ignored by everyone in the neighborhood , one woman stood up for him almost passionately . 
Do you remember Miss Sadler ? That remarkable governess of the Surreys ? Why , Ethel , she is the very ugliest woman I ever saw . 
She is so ugly that she is fascinating . 
If you see her one minute you can never forget her , and she is brains to her finger tips . 
She ruled everyone at Surrey House . 
She was Lord Surrey's secretary and Lady Surrey's adviser . 
She educated the children , and they adored her she ruled the servants , and they obeyed her with fear and trembling . 
Nothing was done in Surrey House without her approval . 
And if her face was not handsome , she had a noble presence and a manner that was irresistible . 
And she took Mostyn's part ? With enthusiasm . 
She abused Dora individually , and American women generally . 
And in order that he might do so , she induced Lord Surrey to get him a very excellent civil appointment in Calcutta . 
Then he is going to India ? He is probably now on the way there . 
He sold the Mostyn estate I can hardly believe it . 
He sold it to John Thomas Rawdon . 
John Thomas told me it belonged to Rawdon until the middle of the seventeenth century , and he meant to have it back . 
Miss Sadler must be a witch . 
She is a sensible , practical woman , who knows how to manage men . 
She has soothed Mostyn's wounded pride with appreciative flattery and stimulated his ambition . 
She has promised him great things in India , and she will see that he gets them . 
He must be completely under her control . 
She will never let him call his soul his own , but she will manage his affairs to perfection . 
And Dora is forever rid of that wretched influence . 
The man can never again come between her and her love never again come between her and happiness . 
There will be the circumference of the world as a barrier . 
There will be Jane Sadler as a barrier . 
The Woman Between will annihilate The Man Between . 
What will she do with herself ? She will come back to New York and be a social power . 
She is young , beautiful , rich , and her father has tremendous financial influence . 
Social affairs are ruled by finance . 
I should not wonder to see her in St . 
Jude's , a devotee and eminent for good works . 
And if Basil Stanhope should return ? Poor Basil he is dead . 
Is that all ? There were notices in the papers . 
Is that all ? Mr. Denning must have known it when he stopped divorce proceedings . 
Doubtless he believed it he wished to do so . 
Tyrrel , tell me what you mean . 
I always wondered about his death rather than believed in it . 
Basil had a consuming sense of honor and affection for the Church and its sacred offices . 
He would have died willingly rather than drag them into the mire of a divorce court . 
When the fear became certainty he disappeared really died to all his previous life . 
But I cannot conceive of Basil lying for any purpose . 
His family and friends took on themselves the means they thought most likely to make that disappearance a finality . 
Have you heard anything , seen anything ? One night just before I left the West a traveler asked me for a night's lodging . 
He had been prospecting in British America in the region of the Klondike , and was full of incidental conversation . 
Among many other things he told me of a wonderful sermon he had heard from a young man in a large mining camp . 
I did not give the story any attention at the time , but after he had gone away it came to me like a flash of light that the preacher was Basil Stanhope . 
Oh , Tyrrel , if it was if it was ! What a beautiful dream ! But it is only a dream . 
If it could be true , would he forgive Dora ? Would he come back to her ? No ! Tyrrel's voice was positive and even stern . 
No , he could never come back to her . 
She might go to him . 
She left him without any reason . 
I do not think he would care to see her again . 
I would say no more , Tyrrel . 
I do not think as you do . 
It is a dream , a fancy , just an imagination . 
But if it were true , Basil would wish no pilgrimage of abasement . 
May I tell Dora some day what you have thought and said ? It will be something good for her to dream about . 
Do you think she cares ? Did she ever love him ? He was her first love . 
She loved him once with all her heart . 
If it would be right safe , I mean , to tell Dora On this subject there is so much NOT to say . 
I would never speak of it . 
It may be a truth Then it is among those truths that should be held back , and it is likely only a trick of my imagination , a supposition , a fancy . 
A miracle ! And of two miracles I prefer the least , and that is that Basil is dead . 
Your young preacher is a dream and , oh , Tyrrel , I am so tired ! It has been such a long , long , happy day ! I want to sleep . 
My eyes are shutting as I talk to you . 
Such a long , long , happy day ! And so many long , happy days to come , dearest . 
So many , she answered , as she took Tyrrel's hand , and lifted her fur and fan and gloves . 
What were those lines we read together the night before we were married ? I forget , I am so tired . 
