Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
The town is , in our tale , called Gopher Prairie , Minnesota . 
But its Main Street is the continuation of Main Streets everywhere . 
Main Street is the climax of civilization . 
That this Ford car might stand in front of the Bon Ton Store , Hannibal invaded Rome and Erasmus wrote in Oxford cloisters . 
Our railway station is the final aspiration of architecture . 
Sam Clark's annual hardware turnover is the envy of the four counties which constitute God's Country . 
In the sensitive art of the Rosebud Movie Palace there is a Message , and humor strictly moral . 
Such is our comfortable tradition and sure faith . 
She saw no Indians now she saw flour mills and the blinking windows of skyscrapers in Minneapolis and St . 
Nor was she thinking of squaws and portages , and the Yankee fur traders whose shadows were all about her . 
She lifted her arms , she leaned back against the wind , her skirt dipped and flared , a lock blew wild . 
A girl on a hilltop credulous , plastic , young drinking the air as she longed to drink life . 
The eternal aching comedy of expectant youth . 
It is Carol Milford , fleeing for an hour from Blodgett College . 
II Blodgett College is on the edge of Minneapolis . 
It is a bulwark of sound religion . 
It is still combating the recent heresies of Voltaire , Darwin , and Robert Ingersoll . 
Pious families in Minnesota , Iowa , Wisconsin , the Dakotas send their children thither , and Blodgett protects them from the wickedness of the universities . 
But it secretes friendly girls , young men who sing , and one lady instructress who really likes Milton and Carlyle . 
So the four years which Carol spent at Blodgett were not altogether wasted . 
The smallness of the school , the fewness of rivals , permitted her to experiment with her perilous versatility . 
In her class there were two or three prettier girls , but none more eager . 
She was noticeable equally in the classroom grind and at dances , though out of the three hundred students of Blodgett , scores recited more accurately and dozens Bostoned more smoothly . 
Every cell of her body was alive thin wrists , quince blossom skin , ingenue eyes , black hair . 
The other girls in her dormitory marveled at the slightness of her body when they saw her in sheer negligee , or darting out wet from a shower bath . 
She seemed then but half as large as they had supposed a fragile child who must be cloaked with understanding kindness . 
Psychic , the girls whispered , and spiritual . 
Even when she was tired her dark eyes were observant . 
For all her enthusiasms , for all the fondness and the crushes which she inspired , Carol's acquaintances were shy of her . 
When she was most ardently singing hymns or planning deviltry she yet seemed gently aloof and critical . 
She was credulous , perhaps a born hero worshipper yet she did question and examine unceasingly . 
Whatever she might become she would never be static . 
By turns she hoped to discover that she had an unusual voice , a talent for the piano , the ability to act , to write , to manage organizations . 
She was on the peak that Sunday afternoon when she played in chapel . 
Every man fell in love then with religion and Carol . 
Throughout Senior year she anxiously related all her experiments and partial successes to a career . 
As for Carol , she was an orphan her only near relative was a vanilla flavored sister married to an optician in St . 
She had used most of the money from her father's estate . 
She was not in love that is , not often , nor ever long at a time . 
She would earn her living . 
But how she was to earn it , how she was to conquer the world almost entirely for the world's own good she did not see . 
Most of the girls who were not betrothed meant to be teachers . 
The earnest virgins were , she fancied , as likely to do harm as to do good by their faith in the value of parsing Caesar . 
At various times during Senior year Carol finally decided upon studying law , writing motion picture scenarios , professional nursing , and marrying an unidentified hero . 
Then she found a hobby in sociology . 
The sociology instructor was new . 
He led a giggling class through the prisons , the charity bureaus , the employment agencies of Minneapolis and St . 
Trailing at the end of the line Carol was indignant at the prodding curiosity of the others , their manner of staring at the poor as at a Zoo . 
She felt herself a great liberator . 
She put her hand to her mouth , her forefinger and thumb quite painfully pinching her lower lip , and frowned , and enjoyed being aloof . 
Paul stockyards , These college chumps make me tired . 
They ought to of worked on the farm , the way I have . 
These workmen put it all over them . 
I just love common workmen , glowed Carol . 
Her eyes mothered the world . 
Stewart Snyder peered at her . 
He rammed his large red fists into his pockets , he jerked them out , he resolutely got rid of them by clenching his hands behind him , and he stammered I know . 
Most of these darn co eds Say , Carol , you could do a lot for people . 
Oh oh well you know sympathy and everything if you were say you were a lawyer's wife . 
I'm going to be a lawyer . 
I admit I fall down in sympathy sometimes . 
I get so dog gone impatient with people that can't stand the gaff . 
You'd be good for a fellow that was too serious . 
Make him more more YOU know sympathetic ! His slightly pouting lips , his mastiff eyes , were begging her to beg him to go on . 
She fled from the steam roller of his sentiment . 
She cried , Oh , see those poor sheep millions and millions of them . 
He hadn't a shapely white neck , and he had never lived among celebrated reformers . 
The supplementary reading in sociology led her to a book on village improvement tree planting , town pageants , girls' clubs . 
It had pictures of greens and garden walls in France , New England , Pennsylvania . 
She had picked it up carelessly , with a slight yawn which she patted down with her finger tips as delicately as a cat . 
She dipped into the book , lounging on her window seat , with her slim , lisle stockinged legs crossed , and her knees up under her chin . 
She stroked a satin pillow while she read . 
Shockingly out of place was a miniature of the Dancing Bacchante . 
It was the only trace of Carol in the room . 
She had inherited the rest from generations of girl students . 
It was as a part of all this commonplaceness that she regarded the treatise on village improvement . 
But she suddenly stopped fidgeting . 
She strode into the book . 
She had fled half way through it before the three o'clock bell called her to the class in English history . 
She sighed , That's what I'll do after college ! I'll get my hands on one of these prairie towns and make it beautiful . 
I suppose I'd better become a teacher then , but I won't be that kind of a teacher . 
Carol did not hear him . 
She was completing the roof of a half timbered town hall . 
She had found one man in the prairie village who did not appreciate her picture of winding streets and arcades , but she had assembled the town council and dramatically defeated him . 
III Though she was Minnesota born Carol was not an intimate of the prairie villages . 
Along the decks she saw missionaries , gamblers in tall pot hats , and Dakota chiefs with scarlet blankets . 
Far off whistles at night , round the river bend , plunking paddles reechoed by the pines , and a glow on black sliding waters . 
Carol's family were self sufficient in their inventive life , with Christmas a rite full of surprises and tenderness , and dressing up parties spontaneous and joyously absurd . 
Judge Milford's pedagogical scheme was to let the children read whatever they pleased , and in his brown library Carol absorbed Balzac and Rabelais and Thoreau and Max Muller . 
Carol's mother died when she was nine . 
Her father retired from the judiciary when she was eleven , and took the family to Minneapolis . 
There he died , two years after . 
Her sister , a busy proper advisory soul , older than herself , had become a stranger to her even when they lived in the same house . 
But , she felt approvingly , as she discovered her career of town planning , she was now roused to being brisk and efficient herself . 
IV In a month Carol's ambition had clouded . 
Her hesitancy about becoming a teacher had returned . 
She was not , she worried , strong enough to endure the routine , and she could not picture herself standing before grinning children and pretending to be wise and decisive . 
But the desire for the creation of a beautiful town remained . 
When she encountered an item about small town women's clubs or a photograph of a straggling Main Street , she was homesick for it , she felt robbed of her work . 
It was the advice of the professor of English which led her to study professional library work in a Chicago school . 
Her imagination carved and colored the new plan . 
V The last faculty reception before commencement . 
In five days they would be in the cyclone of final examinations . 
Carol was dizzy with music and the emotions of parting . 
She saw the palms as a jungle , the pink shaded electric globes as an opaline haze , and the eye glassed faculty as Olympians . 
But it was Stewart Snyder whom she encouraged . 
He was so much manlier than the others he was an even warm brown , like his new ready made suit with its padded shoulders . 
I'm going to be a big lawyer , maybe a judge , and I need you , and I'd protect you His arm slid behind her shoulders . 
The insinuating music drained her independence . 
She said mournfully , Would you take care of me ? She touched his hand . 
It was warm , solid . 
You bet I would ! We'd have , Lord , we'd have bully times in Yankton , where I'm going to settle But I want to do something with life . 
What's better than making a comfy home and bringing up some cute kids and knowing nice homey people ? It was the immemorial male reply to the restless woman . 
Thus to the young Sappho spake the melon venders thus the captains to Zenobia and in the damp cave over gnawed bones the hairy suitor thus protested to the woman advocate of matriarchy . 
In the dialect of Blodgett College but with the voice of Sappho was Carol's answer Of course . 
Honestly , I do love children . 
But there's lots of women that can do housework , but I well , if you HAVE got a college education , you ought to use it for the world . 
I know , but you can use it just as well in the home . 
And gee , Carol , just think of a bunch of us going out on an auto picnic , some nice spring evening . 
I don't understand myself but I want everything in the world ! Maybe I can't sing or write , but I know I can be an influence in library work . 
After graduation she never saw Stewart Snyder again . 
She wrote to him once a week for one month . 
VI A year Carol spent in Chicago . 
Her study of library cataloguing , recording , books of reference , was easy and not too somniferous . 
She reveled in the Art Institute , in symphonies and violin recitals and chamber music , in the theater and classic dancing . 
She almost gave up library work to become one of the young women who dance in cheese cloth in the moonlight . 
She was taken to a certified Studio Party , with beer , cigarettes . 
bobbed hair , and a Russian Jewess who sang the Internationale . 
It cannot be reported that Carol had anything significant to say to the Bohemians . 
She was awkward with them , and felt ignorant , and she was shocked by the free manners which she had for years desired . 
But she heard and remembered discussions of Freud , Romain Rolland , syndicalism , the Confederation Generale du Travail , feminism vs . 
haremism , Chinese lyrics , nationalization of mines , Christian Science , and fishing in Ontario . 
She went home , and that was the beginning and end of her Bohemian life . 
The second cousin of Carol's sister's husband lived in Winnetka , and once invited her out to Sunday dinner . 
She walked back through Wilmette and Evanston , discovered new forms of suburban architecture , and remembered her desire to recreate villages . 
VII Carol was not unhappy and she was not exhilarated , in the St . 
She slowly confessed that she was not visibly affecting lives . 
She did , at first , put into her contact with the patrons a willingness which should have moved worlds . 
But so few of these stolid worlds wanted to be moved . 
When she was in charge of the magazine room the readers did not ask for suggestions about elevated essays . 
They grunted , Wanta find the Leather Goods Gazette for last February . 
She was fond of the other librarians proud of their aspirations . 
She took walks , and was sensible about shoes and diet . 
And never did she feel that she was living . 
She went to dances and suppers at the houses of college acquaintances . 
None of them made her more than pause in thought . 
For months no male emerged from the mass . 
Then , at the Marburys' , she met Dr . 
CHAPTER II IT was a frail and blue and lonely Carol who trotted to the flat of the Johnson Marburys for Sunday evening supper . 
Mrs. Marbury was a neighbor and friend of Carol's sister Mr. Marbury a traveling representative of an insurance company . 
They made a specialty of sandwich salad coffee lap suppers , and they regarded Carol as their literary and artistic representative . 
She was the one who could be depended upon to appreciate the Caruso phonograph record , and the Chinese lantern which Mr. Marbury had brought back as his present from San Francisco . 
Carol found the Marburys admiring and therefore admirable . 
This September Sunday evening she wore a net frock with a pale pink lining . 
A nap had soothed away the faint lines of tiredness beside her eyes . 
She was young , naive , stimulated by the coolness . 
She flung her coat at the chair in the hall of the flat , and exploded into the green plush living room . 
The familiar group were trying to be conversational . 
She saw Mr. Marbury , a woman teacher of gymnastics in a high school , a chief clerk from the Great Northern Railway offices , a young lawyer . 
Mr. Marbury boomed , Carol , come over here and meet Doc Kennicott Dr . 
Will Kennicott of Gopher Prairie . 
Pleased to meet you , stated Dr . 
His hand was strong the palm soft , but the back weathered , showing golden hairs against firm red skin . 
He looked at her as though she was an agreeable discovery . 
She tugged her hand free and fluttered , I must go out to the kitchen and help Mrs. Marbury . 
Come over here and sit down and tell us how's tricks . 
He herded her to a sofa with Dr . 
Kennicott , who was rather vague about the eyes , rather drooping of bulky shoulder , as though he was wondering what he was expected to do next . 
As their host left them , Kennicott awoke Marbury tells me you're a high mogul in the public library . 
Didn't hardly think you were old enough I thought you were a girl , still in college maybe . 
Oh , I'm dreadfully old . 
I expect to take to a lip stick , and to find a gray hair any morning now . 
How do you like your work ? asked the doctor . 
It's pleasant , but sometimes I feel shut off from things the steel stacks , and the everlasting cards smeared all over with red rubber stamps . 
Don't you get sick of the city ? St . 
And then I like country driving , and the hunting in the fall . 
Do you know Gopher Prairie at all ? No , but I hear it's a very nice town . 
Bresnahan you know the famous auto manufacturer he comes from Gopher Prairie . 
Born and brought up there ! And it's a darn pretty town . 
Gopher Prairie is going to have a great future . 
Keeps you out , and yet you have a chance to loaf in the office for a change . 
I don't mean that way . 
I mean it's such an opportunity for sympathy . 
Kennicott launched into a heavy , Oh , these Dutch farmers don't want sympathy . 
All they need is a bath and a good dose of salts . 
It seems to me that a doctor could transform a whole community , if he wanted to if he saw it . 
He's usually the only man in the neighborhood who has any scientific training , isn't he ? Yes , that's so , but I guess most of us get rusty . 
We land in a rut of obstetrics and typhoid and busted legs . 
What we need is women like you to jump on us . 
It'd be you that would transform the town . 
I did used to think about doing just that , curiously enough , but I seem to have drifted away from the idea . 
Oh , I'm a fine one to be lecturing you ! No ! You're just the one . 
You have ideas without having lost feminine charm . 
His kindliness and the firmness of his personality enveloped her and she accepted him as one who had a right to know what she thought and wore and ate and read . 
He had grown from a sketched in stranger to a friend , whose gossip was important news . 
She noticed the healthy solidity of his chest . 
His nose , which had seemed irregular and large , was suddenly virile . 
Come on now , folks , shake a leg . 
Let's have some stunts or a dance or something . 
She did not have another word with Dr . 
Kennicott until their parting Been a great pleasure to meet you , Miss Milford . 
May I see you some time when I come down again ? I'm here quite often taking patients to hospitals for majors , and so on . 
They were biology and mystery their speech was slang phrases and flares of poetry their silences were contentment , or shaky crises when his arm took her shoulder . 
They liked each other honestly they were both honest . 
She was disappointed by his devotion to making money , but she was sure that he did not lie to patients , and that he did keep up with the medical magazines . 
What aroused her to something more than liking was his boyishness when they went tramping . 
The High Bridge crosses the Mississippi , mounting from low banks to a palisade of cliffs . 
Far down beneath it on the St . 
Paul on its hills an imperial sweep from the dome of the cathedral to the dome of the state capitol . 
And for this fresh land , the place is ancient . 
Here is the bold stone house which General Sibley , the king of fur traders , built in , with plaster of river mud , and ropes of twisted grass for laths . 
It has an air of centuries . 
It suggested to them a common American past , and it was memorable because they had discovered it together . 
They talked more trustingly , more personally , as they trudged on . 
They crossed the Minnesota River in a rowboat ferry . 
They climbed the hill to the round stone tower of Fort Snelling . 
They saw the junction of the Mississippi and the Minnesota , and recalled the men who had come here eighty years ago Maine lumbermen , York traders , soldiers from the Maryland hills . 
It's a good country , and I'm proud of it . 
Let's make it all that those old boys dreamed about , the unsentimental Kennicott was moved to vow . 
Make the town well make it artistic . 
It's mighty pretty , but I'll admit we aren't any too darn artistic . 
Probably the lumber yard isn't as scrumptious as all these Greek temples . 
But go to it ! Make us change ! I would like to . 
Some day ! Now ! You'd love Gopher Prairie . 
We've been doing a lot with lawns and gardening the past few years , and it's so homey the big trees and And the best people on earth . 
I bet Luke Dawson Carol but half listened to the names . 
She could not fancy their ever becoming important to her . 
And And there's plenty of others . 
Only of course none of them have your finesse , you might call it . 
But they don't make 'em any more appreciative and so on . 
Come on ! We're ready for you to boss us ! They sat on the bank below the parapet of the old fort , hidden from observation . 
He circled her shoulder with his arm . 
Relaxed after the walk , a chill nipping her throat , conscious of his warmth and power , she leaned gratefully against him . 
You know I'm in love with you , Carol ! She did not answer , but she touched the back of his hand with an exploring finger . 
You say I'm so darn materialistic . 
How can I help it , unless I have you to stir me up ? She did not answer . 
You say a doctor could cure a town the way he does a person . 
Well , you cure the town of whatever ails it , if anything does , and I'll be your surgical kit . 
She did not follow his words , only the burring resoluteness of them . 
She was shocked , thrilled , as he kissed her cheek and cried , There's no use saying things and saying things and saying things . 
Then they were sitting six inches apart , pretending that they had never been nearer , while she tried to be impersonal I would like to would like to see Gopher Prairie . 
Trust me ! Here she is ! Brought some snapshots down to show you . 
Her cheek near his sleeve , she studied a dozen village pictures . 
They were streaky she saw only trees , shrubbery , a porch indistinct in leafy shadows . 
It was an impression of cool clear vigor . 
Here's where you come in . 
A photograph of a forest clearing pathetic new furrows straggling among stumps , a clumsy log cabin chinked with mud and roofed with hay . 
In front of it a sagging woman with tight drawn hair , and a baby bedraggled , smeary , glorious eyed . 
Those are the kind of folks I practise among , good share of the time . 
Nels Erdstrom , fine clean young Svenska . 
He'll have a corking farm in ten years , but now I operated his wife on a kitchen table , with my driver giving the anesthetic . 
Look at that scared baby ! Needs some woman with hands like yours . 
Waiting for you ! Just look at that baby's eyes , look how he's begging Don't ! They hurt me . 
Oh , it would be sweet to help him so sweet . 
As his arms moved toward her she answered all her doubts with Sweet , so sweet . 
CHAPTER III UNDER the rolling clouds of the prairie a moving mass of steel . 
An irritable clank and rattle beneath a prolonged roar . 
The sharp scent of oranges cutting the soggy smell of unbathed people and ancient baggage . 
Towns as planless as a scattering of pasteboard boxes on an attic floor . 
The stretch of faded gold stubble broken only by clumps of willows encircling white houses and red barns . 
No. , the way train , grumbling through Minnesota , imperceptibly climbing the giant tableland that slopes in a thousand mile rise from hot Mississippi bottoms to the Rockies . 
It is September , hot , very dusty . 
Halfway down the car is a semi partition of carved oak columns , but the aisle is of bare , splintery , grease blackened wood . 
They do not read apparently they do not think . 
She brings out a graham cracker which she feeds to a baby lying flat on a seat and wailing hopelessly . 
A soiled man and woman munch sandwiches and throw the crusts on the floor . 
A large brick colored Norwegian takes off his shoes , grunts in relief , and props his feet in their thick gray socks against the seat in front of him . 
The bag is full of treasures and of memories a leather buckle , an ancient band concert program , scraps of ribbon , lace , satin . 
In the aisle beside her is an extremely indignant parrakeet in a cage . 
Two facing seats , overflowing with a Slovene iron miner's family , are littered with shoes , dolls , whisky bottles , bundles wrapped in newspapers , a sewing bag . 
The oldest boy takes a mouth organ out of his coat pocket , wipes the tobacco crumbs off , and plays Marching through Georgia till every head in the car begins to ache . 
The news butcher comes through selling chocolate bars and lemon drops . 
A girl child ceaselessly trots down to the water cooler and back to her seat . 
The smell grows constantly thicker , more stale . 
II To each of the passengers his seat was his temporary home , and most of the passengers were slatternly housekeepers . 
But one seat looked clean and deceptively cool . 
In it were an obviously prosperous man and a black haired , fine skinned girl whose pumps rested on an immaculate horsehide bag . 
Will Kennicott and his bride , Carol . 
They had been married at the end of a year of conversational courtship , and they were on their way to Gopher Prairie after a wedding journey in the Colorado mountains . 
The hordes of the way train were not altogether new to Carol . 
She had seen them on trips from St . 
But now that they had become her own people , to bathe and encourage and adorn , she had an acute and uncomfortable interest in them . 
But the older people , Yankees as well as Norwegians , Germans , Finns , Canucks , had settled into submission to poverty . 
They were peasants , she groaned . 
Isn't there any way of waking them up ? What would happen if they understood scientific agriculture ? she begged of Kennicott , her hand groping for his . 
It had been a transforming honeymoon . 
She had been frightened to discover how tumultuous a feeling could be roused in her . 
His hand swallowed hers as he started from thoughts of the practise to which he was returning . 
These people ? Wake 'em up ? What for ? They're happy . 
No , that isn't what I mean . 
They're oh , so sunk in the mud . 
You want to get over your city idea that because a man's pants aren't pressed , he's a fool . 
These farmers are mighty keen and up and coming . 
I know ! That's what hurts . 
Life seems so hard for them these lonely farms and this gritty train . 
Oh , they don't mind it . 
Besides , things are changing . 
The auto , the telephone , rural free delivery they're bringing the farmers in closer touch with the town . 
Takes time , you know , to change a wilderness like this was fifty years ago . 
But if it's these towns we've been passing that the farmers run to for relief from their bleakness Can't you understand ? Just LOOK at them ! Kennicott was amazed . 
Ever since childhood he had seen these towns from trains on this same line . 
He grumbled , Why , what's the matter with 'em ? Good hustling burgs . 
It would astonish you to know how much wheat and rye and corn and potatoes they ship in a year . 
I'll admit they aren't comfy like Gopher Prairie . 
No ! That can't be true . 
It must have taken genius to make them so scrawny ! Oh , they're not so bad , was all he answered . 
He pretended that his hand was the cat and hers the mouse . 
For the first time she tolerated him rather than encouraged him . 
She was staring out at Schoenstrom , a hamlet of perhaps a hundred and fifty inhabitants , at which the train was stopping . 
A bearded German and his pucker mouthed wife tugged their enormous imitation leather satchel from under a seat and waddled out . 
The station agent hoisted a dead calf aboard the baggage car . 
There were no other visible activities in Schoenstrom . 
In the quiet of the halt , Carol could hear a horse kicking his stall , a carpenter shingling a roof . 
The business center of Schoenstrom took up one side of one block , facing the railroad . 
It was a row of one story shops covered with galvanized iron , or with clapboards painted red and bilious yellow . 
The buildings were as ill assorted , as temporary looking , as a mining camp street in the motion pictures . 
The railroad station was a one room frame box , a mirey cattle pen on one side and a crimson wheat elevator on the other . 
The elevator , with its cupola on the ridge of a shingled roof , resembled a broad shouldered man with a small , vicious , pointed head . 
The only habitable structures to be seen were the florid red brick Catholic church and rectory at the end of Main Street . 
Carol picked at Kennicott's sleeve . 
You wouldn't call this a not so bad town , would you ? These Dutch burgs ARE kind of slow . 
Still , at that See that fellow coming out of the general store there , getting into the big car ? I met him once . 
He owns about half the town , besides the store . 
Rauskukle , his name is . 
He owns a lot of mortgages , and he gambles in farm lands . 
Good nut on him , that fellow . 
He's their symbol of beauty . 
The town erects him , instead of erecting buildings . 
Honestly , don't know what you're driving at . 
You're kind of played out , after this long trip . 
You'll feel better when you get home and have a good bath , and put on the blue negligee . 
That's some vampire costume , you witch ! He squeezed her arm , looked at her knowingly . 
They moved on from the desert stillness of the Schoenstrom station . 
The train creaked , banged , swayed . 
The air was nauseatingly thick . 
Kennicott turned her face from the window , rested her head on his shoulder . 
She was coaxed from her unhappy mood . 
But she came out of it unwillingly , and when Kennicott was satisfied that he had corrected all her worries and had opened a magazine of saffron detective stories , she sat upright . 
An empire which feeds a quarter of the world yet its work is merely begun . 
They are pioneers , these sweaty wayfarers , for all their telephones and bank accounts and automatic pianos and co operative leagues . 
And for all its fat richness , theirs is a pioneer land . 
What is its future ? she wondered . 
She saw the prairie , flat in giant patches or rolling in long hummocks . 
The width and bigness of it , which had expanded her spirit an hour ago , began to frighten her . 
It spread out so it went on so uncontrollably she could never know it . 
Kennicott was closeted in his detective story . 
With the loneliness which comes most depressingly in the midst of many people she tried to forget problems , to look at the prairie objectively . 
The grass beside the railroad had been burnt over it was a smudge prickly with charred stalks of weeds . 
Beyond the undeviating barbed wire fences were clumps of golden rod . 
The long rows of wheat shocks marched like soldiers in worn yellow tabards . 
The newly plowed fields were black banners fallen on the distant slope . 
It was a martial immensity , vigorous , a little harsh , unsoftened by kindly gardens . 
All this working land was turned into exuberance by the light . 
It's a glorious country a land to be big in , she crooned . 
Then Kennicott startled her by chuckling , D' you realize the town after the next is Gopher Prairie ? Home ! III That one word home it terrified her . 
She could not believe that she had ever slept in his arms . 
That was one of the dreams which you had but did not officially admit . 
She told herself how good he was , how dependable and understanding . 
She touched his ear , smoothed the plane of his solid jaw , and , turning away again , concentrated upon liking his town . 
It wouldn't be like these barren settlements . 
It couldn't be ! Why , it had three thousand population . 
That was a great many people . 
There would be six hundred houses or more . 
And The lakes near it would be so lovely . 
She'd seen them in the photographs . 
hadn't they ? As the train left Wahkeenyan she began nervously to watch for the lakes the entrance to all her future life . 
But when she discovered them , to the left of the track , her only impression of them was that they resembled the photographs . 
A mile from Gopher Prairie the track mounts a curving low ridge , and she could see the town as a whole . 
With a passionate jerk she pushed up the window , looked out , the arched fingers of her left hand trembling on the sill , her right hand at her breast . 
And she saw that Gopher Prairie was merely an enlargement of all the hamlets which they had been passing . 
Only to the eyes of a Kennicott was it exceptional . 
The huddled low wooden houses broke the plains scarcely more than would a hazel thicket . 
The fields swept up to it , past it . 
It was unprotected and unprotecting there was no dignity in it nor any hope of greatness . 
Only the tall red grain elevator and a few tinny church steeples rose from the mass . 
It was a frontier camp . 
It was not a place to live in , not possibly , not conceivably . 
The people they'd be as drab as their houses , as flat as their fields . 
She would have to wrench loose from this man , and flee . 
The train was entering town . 
The houses on the outskirts were dusky old red mansions with wooden frills , or gaunt frame shelters like grocery boxes , or new bungalows with concrete foundations imitating stone . 
Now the train was passing the elevator , the grim storage tanks for oil , a creamery , a lumber yard , a stock yard muddy and trampled and stinking . 
Now they were stopping at a squat red frame station , the platform crowded with unshaven farmers and with loafers unadventurous people with dead eyes . 
She could not go on . 
It was the end the end of the world . 
She sat with closed eyes , longing to push past Kennicott , hide somewhere in the train , flee on toward the Pacific . 
She would make herself like the place . 
And she was going to do tremendous things She followed Kennicott and the bobbing ends of the two bags which he carried . 
They were held back by the slow line of disembarking passengers . 
She reminded herself that she was actually at the dramatic moment of the bride's home coming . 
She ought to feel exalted . 
She felt nothing at all except irritation at their slow progress toward the door . 
Kennicott stooped to peer through the windows . 
Yuh , yuh sure , they see us ! See 'em waving ! She obediently bent her head to look out at them . 
She had hold of herself . 
She was ready to love them . 
But she was embarrassed by the heartiness of the cheering group . 
She had the impression that all the men had coarse voices , large damp hands , tooth brush mustaches , bald spots , and Masonic watch charms . 
She knew that they were welcoming her . 
Their hands , their smiles , their shouts , their affectionate eyes overcame her . 
She stammered , Thank you , oh , thank you ! One of the men was clamoring at Kennicott , I brought my machine down to take you home , doc . 
Fine business , Sam ! cried Kennicott and , to Carol , Let's jump in . 
That big Paige over there . 
But the man looked at her reassuringly and with a certainty that he was a person whom she could trust she confessed , As a matter of fact I haven't got anybody straight . 
Course you haven't , child . 
Well , I'm Sam Clark , dealer in hardware , sporting goods , cream separators , and almost any kind of heavy junk you can think of . 
Carol smiled lavishly , and wished that she called people by their given names more easily . 
So ! Well , leave us take the bonny bride home . 
Say , doc , I'll sell you the Candersen place for three thousand plunks . 
Better be thinking about building a new home for Carrie . 
Prettiest Frau in G. P. , if you asks me ! Contentedly Sam Clark drove off , in the heavy traffic of three Fords and the Mirmiemashie House Free 'Bus . 
I shall like Mr. Clark . 
I CAN'T call him Sam' ! They're all so friendly . 
She glanced at the houses tried not to see what she saw gave way in Why do these stories lie so ? They always make the bride's home coming a bower of roses . 
Complete trust in noble spouse . 
And this town O my God ! I can't go through with it . 
This junk heap ! Her husband bent over her . 
You look like you were in a brown study . 
Scared ? I don't expect you to think Gopher Prairie is a paradise , after St . 
I don't expect you to be crazy about it , at first . 
But you'll come to like it so much life's so free here and best people on earth . 
, I love you for understanding . 
I'm just I'm beastly over sensitive . 
It's my lack of shoulder muscles and sense . 
Give me time , dear . 
You bet ! All the time you want ! She laid the back of his hand against her cheek , snuggled near him . 
She was ready for her new home . 
His mother had left Carol her love , and gone back to Lac qui Meurt . 
It would be wonderful , she exulted , not to have to live in Other People's Houses , but to make her own shrine . 
She held his hand tightly and stared ahead as the car swung round a corner and stopped in the street before a prosaic frame house in a small parched lawn . 
IV A concrete sidewalk with a parking of grass and mud . 
A square smug brown house , rather damp . 
A narrow concrete walk up to it . 
Sickly yellow leaves in a windrow with dried wings of box elder seeds and snags of wool from the cotton woods . 
A screened porch with pillars of thin painted pine surmounted by scrolls and brackets and bumps of jigsawed wood . 
No shrubbery to shut off the public gaze . 
A lugubrious bay window to the right of the porch . 
Window curtains of starched cheap lace revealing a pink marble table with a conch shell and a Family Bible . 
You'll find it old fashioned what do you call it ? Mid Victorian . 
I left it as is , so you could make any changes you felt were necessary . 
Kennicott sounded doubtful for the first time since he had come back to his own . 
It's a real home ! She was moved by his humility . 
She gaily motioned good by to the Clarks . 
He unlocked the door he was leaving the choice of a maid to her , and there was no one in the house . 
She jiggled while he turned the key , and scampered in . 
It was next day before either of them remembered that in their honeymoon camp they had planned that he should carry her over the sill . 
In hallway and front parlor she was conscious of dinginess and lugubriousness and airlessness , but she insisted , I'll make it all jolly . 
Sweet , so sweet , she whispered . 
CHAPTER IV I THE Clarks have invited some folks to their house to meet us , tonight , said Kennicott , as he unpacked his suit case . 
Oh , that is nice of them ! You bet . 
I told you you'd like 'em . 
Uh , Carrie Would you mind if I sneaked down to the office for an hour , just to see how things are ? Why , no . 
I know you're keen to get back to work . 
Sure you don't mind ? Not a bit . 
But the advocate of freedom in marriage was as much disappointed as a drooping bride at the alacrity with which he took that freedom and escaped to the world of men's affairs . 
The scent was of horsehair and plush and Florida Water . 
How could people ever live with things like this ? she shuddered . 
She saw the furniture as a circle of elderly judges , condemning her to death by smothering . 
The tottering brocade chair squeaked , Choke her choke her smother her . 
The old linen smelled of the tomb . 
She was alone in this house , this strange still house , among the shadows of dead thoughts and haunting repressions . 
I hate it ! I hate it ! she panted . 
Why did I ever She remembered that Kennicott's mother had brought these family relics from the old home in Lac qui Meurt . 
Stop it ! They're perfectly comfortable things . 
Besides Oh , they're horrible ! We'll change them , right away . 
Then , But of course he HAS to see how things are at the office She made a pretense of busying herself with unpacking . 
The chintz lined , silver fitted bag which had seemed so desirable a luxury in St . 
Paul was an extravagant vanity here . 
She went to the window , with a purely literary thought of village charm hollyhocks and lanes and apple cheeked cottagers . 
This was the terraced garden below her boudoir this was to be her scenery for I mustn't ! I mustn't ! I'm nervous this afternoon . 
If THEY had to bear them ! I wish they did have to ! Not now ! Not till I've got hold of this job of liking the ash pile out there ! . 
I'm going out for a walk . 
I'll see the town by myself . 
My first view of the empire I'm going to conquer ! She fled from the house . 
She stared with seriousness at every concrete crossing , every hitching post , every rake for leaves and to each house she devoted all her speculation . 
Would she ever talk to him ? What would he say if she stopped and stated , I am Mrs. Dr . 
Some day I hope to confide that a heap of extremely dubious pumpkins as a window display doesn't exhilarate me much . 
The broad , straight , unenticing gashes of the streets let in the grasping prairie on every side . 
She realized the vastness and the emptiness of the land . 
The skeleton iron windmill on the farm a few blocks away , at the north end of Main Street , was like the ribs of a dead cow . 
She thought of the coming of the Northern winter , when the unprotected houses would crouch together in terror of storms galloping out of that wild waste . 
They were so small and weak , the little brown houses . 
They were shelters for sparrows , not homes for warm laughing people . 
She told herself that down the street the leaves were a splendor . 
The maples were orange the oaks a solid tint of raspberry . 
And the lawns had been nursed with love . 
But the thought would not hold . 
At best the trees resembled a thinned woodlot . 
There was no park to rest the eyes . 
And since not Gopher Prairie but Wakamin was the county seat , there was no court house with its grounds . 
It was a tall lean shabby structure , three stories of yellow streaked wood , the corners covered with sanded pine slabs purporting to symbolize stone . 
The dining room beyond was a jungle of stained table cloths and catsup bottles . 
She looked no more at the Minniemashie House . 
A man in cuffless shirt sleeves with pink arm garters , wearing a linen collar but no tie , yawned his way from Dyer's Drug Store across to the hotel . 
He leaned against the wall , scratched a while , sighed , and in a bored way gossiped with a man tilted back in a chair . 
A lumber wagon , its long green box filled with large spools of barbed wire fencing , creaked down the block . 
A Ford , in reverse , sounded as though it were shaking to pieces , then recovered and rattled away . 
In the Greek candy store was the whine of a peanut roaster , and the oily smell of nuts . 
There was no other sound nor sign of life . 
She wanted to run , fleeing from the encroaching prairie , demanding the security of a great city . 
Her dreams of creating a beautiful town were ludicrous . 
Oozing out from every drab wall , she felt a forbidding spirit which she could never conquer . 
She trailed down the street on one side , back on the other , glancing into the cross streets . 
It was a private Seeing Main Street tour . 
Inside the store , a greasy marble soda fountain with an electric lamp of red and green and curdled yellow mosaic shade . 
Pawed over heaps of tooth brushes and combs and packages of shaving soap . 
From a second story window the sign W. P. Kennicott , Phys . 
Surgeon , gilt on black sand . 
A small wooden motion picture theater called The Rosebud Movie Palace . 
Lithographs announcing a film called Fatty in Love . 
In the display window , black , overripe bananas and lettuce on which a cat was sleeping . 
Shelves lined with red crepe paper which was now faded and torn and concentrically spotted . 
Flat against the wall of the second story the signs of lodges the Knights of Pythias , the Maccabees , the Woodmen , the Masons . 
Dahl Oleson's Meat Market a reek of blood . 
A jewelry shop with tinny looking wrist watches for women . 
In front of it , at the curb , a huge wooden clock which did not go . 
A fly buzzing saloon with a brilliant gold and enamel whisky sign across the front . 
Other saloons down the block . 
In front of the saloons , farmwives sitting on the seats of wagons , waiting for their husbands to become drunk and ready to start home . 
A tobacco shop called The Smoke House , filled with young men shaking dice for cigarettes . 
Racks of magazines , and pictures of coy fat prostitutes in striped bathing suits . 
A clothing store with a display of ox blood shade Oxfords with bull dog toes . 
Suits which looked worn and glossless while they were still new , flabbily draped on dummies like corpses with painted cheeks . 
The Bon Ton Store Haydock Simons' the largest shop in town . 
The first story front of clear glass , the plates cleverly bound at the edges with brass . 
The second story of pleasant tapestry brick . 
One window of excellent clothes for men , interspersed with collars of floral pique which showed mauve daisies on a saffron ground . 
Newness and an obvious notion of neatness and service . 
She had met a Haydock at the station Harry Haydock an active person of thirty five . 
He seemed great to her , now , and very like a saint . 
His shop was clean ! Axel Egge's General Store , frequented by Scandinavian farmers . 
An air of frankly metallic enterprise . 
Guns and churns and barrels of nails and beautiful shiny butcher knives . 
Chester Dashaway's House Furnishing Emporium . 
A vista of heavy oak rockers with leather seats , asleep in a dismal row . 
Thick handleless cups on the wet oilcloth covered counter . 
An odor of onions and the smoke of hot lard . 
In the doorway a young man audibly sucking a toothpick . 
The warehouse of the buyer of cream and potatoes . 
The sour smell of a dairy . 
The Ford Garage and the Buick Garage , competent one story brick and cement buildings opposite each other . 
Old and new cars on grease blackened concrete floors . 
The roaring of a tested motor a racket which beat at the nerves . 
Surly young men in khaki union overalls . 
The most energetic and vital places in town . 
A large warehouse for agricultural implements . 
A feed store , its windows opaque with the dust of bran , a patent medicine advertisement painted on its roof . 
Ye Art Shoppe , Prop . 
Mrs. Mary Ellen Wilks , Christian Science Library open daily free . 
A touching fumble at beauty . 
A one room shanty of boards recently covered with rough stucco . 
A barber shop and pool room . 
A man in shirt sleeves , presumably Del Snafflin the proprietor , shaving a man who had a large Adam's apple . 
Nat Hicks's Tailor Shop , on a side street off Main . 
A fashion plate showing human pitchforks in garments which looked as hard as steel plate . 
On another side street a raw red brick Catholic Church with a varnished yellow door . 
The post office merely a partition of glass and brass shutting off the rear of a mildewed room which must once have been a shop . 
A tilted writing shelf against a wall rubbed black and scattered with official notices and army recruiting posters . 
The damp , yellow brick schoolbuilding in its cindery grounds . 
The State Bank , stucco masking wood . 
An Ionic temple of marble . 
Pure , exquisite , solitary . 
A brass plate with Ezra Stowbody , Pres't . 
A score of similar shops and establishments . 
Behind them and mixed with them , the houses , meek cottages or large , comfortable , soundly uninteresting symbols of prosperity . 
It was not only the unsparing unapologetic ugliness and the rigid straightness which overwhelmed her . 
It was the planlessness , the flimsy temporariness of the buildings , their faded unpleasant colors . 
The street was cluttered with electric light poles , telephone poles , gasoline pumps for motor cars , boxes of goods . 
Each man had built with the most valiant disregard of all the others . 
The white temple of the Farmers' Bank was elbowed back by a grocery of glaring yellow brick . 
One store building had a patchy galvanized iron cornice the building beside it was crowned with battlements and pyramids of brick capped with blocks of red sandstone . 
She escaped from Main Street , fled home . 
She wouldn't have cared , she insisted , if the people had been comely . 
None of them had shaved for three days . 
If they can't build shrines , out here on the prairie , surely there's nothing to prevent their buying safety razors ! she raged . 
She fought herself I must be wrong . 
It CAN'T be as ugly as as I know it is ! I must be wrong . 
But I can't do it . 
I can't go through with it . 
III The train which brought Carol to Gopher Prairie also brought Miss Bea Sorenson . 
Miss Bea was a stalwart , corn colored , laughing young woman , and she was bored by farm work . 
She desired the excitements of city life , and the way to enjoy city life was , she had decided , to go get a yob as hired girl in Gopher Prairie . 
She contentedly lugged her pasteboard telescope from the station to her cousin , Tina Malmquist , maid of all work in the residence of Mrs. Luke Dawson . 
Vell , so you come to town , said Tina . 
Ay get a yob , said Bea . 
You got a fella now ? Ya . 
I'm glat to see you . 
How much you vant a veek ? Sex dollar . 
There ain't nobody pay dat . 
Kennicott , I t'ink he marry a girl from de Cities . 
You go take a valk . 
So it chanced that Carol Kennicott and Bea Sorenson were viewing Main Street at the same time . 
Bea had never before been in a town larger than Scandia Crossing , which has sixty seven inhabitants . 
As she marched up the street she was meditating that it didn't hardly seem like it was possible there could be so many folks all in one place at the same time . 
My ! It would take years to get acquainted with them all . 
And swell people , too ! A fine big gentleman in a new pink shirt with a diamond , and not no washed out blue denim working shirt . 
And the men's suits , on figures just like human . 
And Axel Egge's , like home , lots of Swedes and Norskes in there , and a card of dandy buttons , like rubies . 
There was a swell traveling man in there probably been to Chicago , lots of times . 
She almost looked like she was looking over the town , too . 
But you couldn't tell what she thought . 
Bea would like to be that way kind of quiet , so nobody would get fresh . 
Kind of oh , elegant . 
Here in the city there'd be lovely sermons , and church twice on Sunday , EVERY Sunday ! And a movie show ! A regular theater , just for movies . 
With the sign Change of bill every evening . 
The roar of the city began to frighten her . 
and the jeweler was laying out bracelets and wrist watches and EVERYTHING on real velvet . 
What did she care if she got six dollars a week ? Or two ! It was worth while working for nothing , to be allowed to stay here . 
Vell ? You lak it ? said Tina . 
Ay t'ink maybe Ay stay here , said Bea . 
IV The recently built house of Sam Clark , in which was given the party to welcome Carol , was one of the largest in Gopher Prairie . 
It had a clean sweep of clapboards , a solid squareness , a small tower , and a large screened porch . 
Inside , it was as shiny , as hard , and as cheerful as a new oak upright piano . 
They were WAITING so ! They were waiting for her ! The determination to be all one pretty flowerlet of appreciation leaked away . 
She begged of Sam , I don't dare face them ! They expect so much . 
But he chuckled , Now you just cuddle under Sam's wing , and if anybody rubbers at you too long , I'll shoo 'em off . 
Now bust up this star chamber ! They tittered politely , but they did not move from the social security of their circle , and they did not cease staring . 
Carol had given creative energy to dressing for the event . 
Her hair was demure , low on her forehead with a parting and a coiled braid . 
Now she wished that she had piled it high . 
Her frock was an ingenue slip of lawn , with a wide gold sash and a low square neck , which gave a suggestion of throat and molded shoulders . 
But as they looked her over she was certain that it was all wrong . 
She wished alternately that she had worn a spinsterish high necked dress , and that she had dared to shock them with a violent brick red scarf which she had bought in Chicago . 
She was led about the circle . 
Euclid P. Tinker ? No , I don't REMEMBER meeting him , but I'm pretty sure I've heard of him . 
Kennicott took her aside and whispered , Now I'll introduce you to them , one at a time . 
Tell me about them first . 
Well , the nice looking couple over there are Harry Hay dock and his wife , Juanita . 
Harry's dad owns most of the Bon Ton , but it's Harry who runs it and gives it the pep . 
Next to him is Dave Dyer the druggist you met him this afternoon mighty good duck shot . 
The tall husk beyond him is Jack Elder Jackson Elder owns the planing mill , and the Minniemashie House , and quite a share in the Farmers' National Bank . 
Him and his wife are good sports him and Sam and I go hunting together a lot . 
The old cheese there is Luke Dawson , the richest man in town . 
Next to him is Nat Hicks , the tailor . 
Really ? A tailor ? Sure . 
Why not ? Maybe we're slow , but we are democratic . 
I go hunting with Nat same as I do with Jack Elder . 
I've never met a tailor socially . 
It must be charming to meet one and not have to think about what you owe him . 
And do you Would you go hunting with your barber , too ? No but No use running this democracy thing into the ground . 
Besides , I've known Nat for years , and besides , he's a mighty good shot and That's the way it is , see ? Next to Nat is Chet Dashaway . 
He'll talk your arm off , about religion or politics or books or anything . 
Carol gazed with a polite approximation to interest at Mr. Dashaway , a tan person with a wide mouth . 
Oh , I know ! He's the furniture store man ! She was much pleased with herself . 
Yump , and he's the undertaker . 
Come shake hands with him . 
She sought to regain her afternoon's calm of maturity . 
I want oh , my dear , do you know how much I want to like the people you like ? I want to see people as they are . 
Well , don't forget to see people as other folks see them as they are ! They have the stuff . 
Did you know that Percy Bresnahan came from here ? Born and brought up here ! Bresnahan ? Yes you know president of the Velvet Motor Company of Boston , Mass . 
make the Velvet Twelve biggest automobile factory in New England . 
I think I've heard of him . 
HE doesn't mind Chet's undertaking . 
Please ! I'll I'll like everybody ! I'll be the community sunbeam ! He led her to the Dawsons . 
Luke Dawson , lender of money on mortgages , owner of Northern cut over land , was a hesitant man in unpressed soft gray clothes , with bulging eyes in a milky face . 
His wife had bleached cheeks , bleached hair , bleached voice , and a bleached manner . 
It was Professor George Edwin Mott , superintendent of schools , a Chinese mandarin turned brown , who held Carol's hand and made her welcome . 
When the Dawsons and Mr. Mott had stated that they were pleased to meet her , there seemed to be nothing else to say , but the conversation went on automatically . 
Do you like Gopher Prairie ? whimpered Mrs. Dawson . 
Oh , I'm sure I'm going to be ever so happy . 
There's so many nice people . 
Mrs. Dawson looked to Mr. Mott for social and intellectual aid . 
He lectured There's a fine class of people . 
I don't like some of these retired farmers who come here to spend their last days especially the Germans . 
They hate to pay school taxes . 
They hate to spend a cent . 
But the rest are a fine class of people . 
Did you know that Percy Bresnahan came from here ? Used to go to school right at the old building ! I heard he did . 
He and I went fishing together , last time he was here . 
The Dawsons and Mr. Mott teetered upon weary feet , and smiled at Carol with crystallized expressions . 
She went on Tell me , Mr. Mott Have you ever tried any experiments with any of the new educational systems ? The modern kindergarten methods or the Gary system ? Oh . 
Most of these would be reformers are simply notoriety seekers . 
Carol waited till Kennicott should rescue her . 
The rest of the party waited for the miracle of being amused . 
Harry and Juanita Haydock , Rita Simons and Dr . 
Terry Gould the young smart set of Gopher Prairie . 
She was led to them . 
Juanita Haydock flung at her in a high , cackling , friendly voice Well , this is SO nice to have you here . 
We'll have some good parties dances and everything . 
You'll have to join the Jolly Seventeen . 
We play bridge and we have a supper once a month . 
You play , of course ? N no , I don't . 
Paul ? I've always been such a book worm . 
We'll have to teach you . 
Bridge is half the fun of life . 
Juanita had become patronizing , and she glanced disrespectfully at Carol's golden sash , which she had previously admired . 
Harry Haydock said politely , How do you think you're going to like the old burg ? I'm sure I shall like it tremendously . 
Best people on earth here . 
Course I've had lots of chances to go live in Minneapolis , but we like it here . 
Did you know that Percy Bresnahan came from here ? Carol perceived that she had been weakened in the biological struggle by disclosing her lack of bridge . 
Roused to nervous desire to regain her position she turned on Dr . 
Terry Gould , the young and pool playing competitor of her husband . 
Her eyes coquetted with him while she gushed I'll learn bridge . 
But what I really love most is the outdoors . 
Can't we all get up a boating party , and fish , or whatever you do , and have a picnic supper afterwards ? Now you're talking ! Dr . 
He looked rather too obviously at the cream smooth slope of her shoulder . 
Fishing is my middle name . 
Like cards at all ? I used to be rather good at bezique . 
She knew that bezique was a game of cards or a game of something else . 
But her lie was a triumph . 
Juanita's handsome , high colored , horsey face showed doubt . 
Harry stroked his nose and said humbly , Bezique ? Used to be great gambling game , wasn't it ? While others drifted to her group , Carol snatched up the conversation . 
She laughed and was frivolous and rather brittle . 
She could not distinguish their eyes . 
I'll never read anything but the sporting page again . 
Will converted me on our Colorado trip . 
She knew that they were thinking of becoming shocked , but Juanita Haydock was admiring , at least . 
She swaggered on I'm sure I'm going to ruin Will as a respectable practitioner Is he a good doctor , Dr . 
Gould ? Kennicott's rival gasped at this insult to professional ethics , and he took an appreciable second before he recovered his social manner . 
I'll tell you , Mrs. Kennicott . 
He smiled at Kennicott , to imply that whatever he might say in the stress of being witty was not to count against him in the commercio medical warfare . 
Carol saw that George Edwin Mott and the blanched Mr. and Mrs. Dawson were not yet hypnotized . 
They looked as though they wondered whether they ought to look as though they disapproved . 
She concentrated on them But I know whom I wouldn't have dared to go to Colorado with ! Mr. Dawson there ! I'm sure he's a regular heart breaker . 
When we were introduced he held my hand and squeezed it frightfully . 
Haw ! Haw ! Haw ! The entire company applauded . 
He had been called many things loan shark , skinflint , tightwad , pussyfoot but he had never before been called a flirt . 
For fifteen minutes Carol kept it up . 
She asserted that she was going to stage a musical comedy , that she preferred cafe parfait to beefsteak , that she hoped Dr . 
Kennicott would never lose his ability to make love to charming women , and that she had a pair of gold stockings . 
But she could not keep it up . 
She retired to a chair behind Sam Clark's bulk . 
The smile wrinkles solemnly flattened out in the faces of all the other collaborators in having a party , and again they stood about hoping but not expecting to be amused . 
She discovered that conversation did not exist in Gopher Prairie . 
Sam Clark had been talking to Carol about motor cars , but he felt his duties as host . 
While he droned , his brows popped up and down . 
He interrupted himself , Must stir 'em up . 
He worried at his wife , Don't you think I better stir 'em up ? He shouldered into the center of the room , and cried Let's have some stunts , folks . 
Yes , let's ! shrieked Juanita Haydock . 
Say , Dave , give us that stunt about the Norwegian catching a hen . 
You bet that's a slick stunt do that , Dave ! cheered Chet Dashaway . 
All the guests moved their lips in anticipation of being called on for their own stunts . 
Ella , come on and recite Old Sweetheart of Mine , for us , demanded Sam . 
Miss Ella Stowbody , the spinster daughter of the Ionic bank , scratched her dry palms and blushed . 
Oh , you don't want to hear that old thing again . 
Sure we do ! You bet ! asserted Sam . 
My voice is in terrible shape tonight . 
Tut ! Come on ! Sam loudly explained to Carol , Ella is our shark at elocuting . 
She studied singing and oratory and dramatic art and shorthand for a year , in Milwaukee . 
As encore to An Old Sweetheart of Mine , she gave a peculiarly optimistic poem regarding the value of smiles . 
There were four other stunts one Jewish , one Irish , one juvenile , and Nat Hicks's parody of Mark Antony's funeral oration . 
They gave up trying to be festive they began to talk naturally , as they did at their shops and homes . 
The men and women divided , as they had been tending to do all evening . 
Carol was deserted by the men , left to a group of matrons who steadily pattered of children , sickness , and cooks their own shop talk . 
She re membered visions of herself as a smart married woman in a drawing room , fencing with clever men . 
Her dejection was relieved by speculation as to what the men were discussing , in the corner between the piano and the phonograph . 
She rose with a jeune fille bow . 
She was self absorbed and self approving because she had attained that quality of sentimentality . 
She proudly dipped across the room and , to the interest and commendation of all beholders , sat on the arm of Kennicott's chair . 
Ezra Stowbody was a troglodyte . 
He had come to Gopher Prairie in . 
He was a distinguished bird of prey swooping thin nose , turtle mouth , thick brows , port wine cheeks , floss of white hair , contemptuous eyes . 
He was not happy in the social changes of thirty years . 
Three decades ago , Dr . 
Westlake , Julius Flickerbaugh the lawyer , Merriman Peedy the Congregational pastor and himself had been the arbiters . 
Peedy was dead and nobody was impressed in this rotten age of automobiles by the spanking grays which Ezra still drove . 
The town was as heterogeneous as Chicago . 
Norwegians and Germans owned stores . 
The social leaders were common merchants . 
Selling nails was considered as sacred as banking . 
These upstarts the Clarks , the Haydocks had no dignity . 
They were sound and conservative in politics , but they talked about motor cars and pump guns and heaven only knew what new fangled fads . 
Mr. Stowbody felt out of place with them . 
He come out from Vermont in no , wait , in , it must have been and took a claim on the Rum River , quite a ways above Anoka . 
He did not ! roared Mr. Stowbody . 
She's just like her grandad was . 
There hasn't been much labor trouble around here , has there , Mr. Stowbody ? she asked innocently . 
No , ma'am , thank God , we've been free from that , except maybe with hired girls and farm hands . 
Trouble enough with these foreign farmers if you don't watch these Swedes they turn socialist or populist or some fool thing on you in a minute . 
Of course , if they have loans you can make 'em listen to reason . 
I just have 'em come into the bank for a talk , and tell 'em a few things . 
I don't mind their being democrats , so much , but I won't stand having socialists around . 
But thank God , we ain't got the labor trouble they have in these cities . 
Even Jack Elder here gets along pretty well , in the planing mill , don't you , Jack ? Yep . 
Do you approve of union labor ? Carol inquired of Mr. Elder . 
But still , if they come to me honestly , as man to man , I'll talk things over with them . 
I stand for freedom and constitutional rights . 
If any man don't like my shop , he can get up and git . 
Same way , if I don't like him , he gits . 
And that's all there is to it . 
They like what I pay 'em , or they get out . 
That's all there is to it ! What do you think of profit sharing ? Carol ventured . 
Enfeebles a workman's independence and wastes a lot of honest profit . 
Yes SIR ! Mr. Elder wiped his brow . 
Dave Dyer added , Sure ! You bet ! What they ought to do is simply to hang every one of these agitators , and that would settle the whole thing right off . 
Don't you think so , doc ? You bet , agreed Kennicott . 
It was a matter not readily determined . 
Then Dave Dyer communicated his carefree adventures on the gipsy trail Yep . 
I get good time out of the flivver . 
'Bout a week ago I motored down to New Wurttemberg . 
Once only once the presence of the alien Carol was recognized . 
Harry Haydock offered , Juanita is a great hand for reading high class stuff , like Mid the Magnolias' by this Sara Hetwiggin Butts , and Riders of Ranch Reckless . 
I never read anything I can't check against , said Sam Clark . 
It did go on ! Their voices were monotonous , thick , emphatic . 
They were harshly pompous , like men in the smoking compartments of Pullman cars . 
They did not bore Carol . 
She panted , They will be cordial to me , because my man belongs to their tribe . 
Kennicott said , Dandy interior , eh ? My idea of how a place ought to be furnished . 
She perceived that even personalities were failing to hold the party . 
The room filled with hesitancy as with a fog . 
People cleared their throats , tried to choke down yawns . 
The men shot their cuffs and the women stuck their combs more firmly into their back hair . 
They had something to do They could escape from themselves . 
They fell upon the food chicken sandwiches , maple cake , drug store ice cream . 
Even when the food was gone they remained cheerful . 
They could go home , any time now , and go to bed ! They went , with a flutter of coats , chiffon scarfs , and good bys . 
Carol and Kennicott walked home . 
Did you like them ? he asked . 
They were terribly sweet to me . 
Uh , Carrie You ought to be more careful about shocking folks . 
Juanita Haydock is such a damn cat . 
I wouldn't give her a chance to criticize me . 
I just mean Don't get onto legs and all that immoral stuff . 
She was silent , raw with the shameful thought that the attentive circle might have been criticizing her , laughing at her . 
Don't , please don't worry ! he pleaded . 
Silence Gosh I'm sorry I spoke about it . 
I just meant But they were crazy about you . 
Carol liked praise , the flavor and fatness of it , but she was so energetically being sorry for herself that she could not taste this commendation . 
Do you care if they think I'm flighty , Will ? Me ? Why , I wouldn't care if the whole world thought you were this or that or anything else . 
You're my well , you're my soul ! He was an undefined mass , as solid seeming as rock . 
She found his sleeve , pinched it , cried , I'm glad ! It's sweet to be wanted ! You must tolerate my frivolousness . 
You're all I have ! He lifted her , carried her into the house , and with her arms about his neck she forgot Main Street . 
CHAPTER V I WE'LL steal the whole day , and go hunting . 
I want you to see the country round here , Kennicott announced at breakfast . 
I'd take the car want you to see how swell she runs since I put in a new piston . 
But we'll take a team , so we can get right out into the fields . 
Not many prairie chickens left now , but we might just happen to run onto a small covey . 
He fussed over his hunting kit . 
He pulled his hip boots out to full length and examined them for holes . 
He feverishly counted his shotgun shells , lecturing her on the qualities of smokeless powder . 
He drew the new hammerless shotgun out of its heavy tan leather case and made her peep through the barrels to see how dazzlingly free they were from rust . 
The world of hunting and camping outfits and fishing tackle was unfamiliar to her , and in Kennicott's interest she found something creative and joyous . 
She examined the smooth stock , the carved hard rubber butt of the gun . 
The shells , with their brass caps and sleek green bodies and hieroglyphics on the wads , were cool and comfortably heavy in her hands . 
Kennicott wore a brown canvas hunting coat with vast pockets lining the inside , corduroy trousers which bulged at the wrinkles , peeled and scarred shoes , a scarecrow felt hat . 
In this uniform he felt virile . 
They clumped out to the livery buggy , they packed the kit and the box of lunch into the back , crying to each other that it was a magnificent day . 
Kennicott had borrowed Jackson Elder's red and white English setter , a complacent dog with a waving tail of silver hair which flickered in the sunshine . 
In a hollow of the rolling prairie they lost sight even of the country road . 
It was warm and placid . 
Locusts trilled among the dry wheat stalks , and brilliant little flies hurtled across the buggy . 
A buzz of content filled the air . 
Crows loitered and gossiped in the sky . 
Pete Rustad owns this farm , and he told me he saw a small covey of chickens in the west forty , last week . 
Maybe we'll get some sport after all , Kennicott chuckled blissfully . 
She watched the dog in suspense , breathing quickly every time he seemed to halt . 
She had no desire to slaughter birds , but she did desire to belong to Kennicott's world . 
The dog stopped , on the point , a forepaw held up . 
By golly ! He's hit a scent ! Come on ! squealed Kennicott . 
The setter crawled ahead , his tail quivering , his belly close to the stubble . 
She expected clouds of large birds to fly up instantly . 
Her eyes were strained with staring . 
The walking was hard on her pavement trained feet . 
The earth was lumpy , the stubble prickly and lined with grass , thistles , abortive stumps of clover . 
She heard Kennicott gasp , Look ! Three gray birds were starting up from the stubble . 
They were round , dumpy , like enormous bumble bees . 
Kennicott was sighting , moving the barrel . 
Why didn't he fire ? The birds would be gone ! Then a crash , another , and two birds turned somersaults in the air , plumped down . 
When he showed her the birds she had no sensation of blood . 
These heaps of feathers were so soft and unbruised there was about them no hint of death . 
She watched her conquering man tuck them into his inside pocket , and trudged with him back to the buggy . 
They found no more prairie chickens that morning . 
The dooryard was of packed yellow clay , treeless , barren of grass , littered with rusty plowshares and wheels of discarded cultivators . 
Hardened trampled mud , like lava , filled the pig pen . 
The doors of the house were grime rubbed , the corners and eaves were rusted with rain , and the child who stared at them from the kitchen window was smeary faced . 
A small spare woman with flaxen hair trotted from the house . 
She was twanging a Swedish patois not in monotone , like English , but singing it , with a lyrical whine Pete he say you kom pretty soon hunting , doctor . 
My , dot's fine you kom . 
Is dis de bride ? Ohhhh ! Ve yoost say las' night , ve hope maybe ve see her som day . 
My , soch a pretty lady ! Mrs. Rustad was shining with welcome . 
As they drove off Carol admired , She's the dearest thing I ever saw . 
You are the Lord of the Manor . 
Oh no , much pleased , but still they do ask my advice about things . 
Bully people , these Scandinavian farmers . 
Helga Rustad , she's still scared of America , but her kids will be doctors and lawyers and governors of the state and any darn thing they want to . 
I wonder Carol was plunged back into last night's Weltschmerz . 
I wonder if these farmers aren't bigger than we are ? So simple and hard working . 
The town lives on them . 
We townies are parasites , and yet we feel superior to them . 
Last night I heard Mr. Haydock talking about hicks . 
Apparently he despises the farmers because they haven't reached the social heights of selling thread and buttons . 
All this discussing may be all right at a party but Let's forget it while we're hunting . 
The Wonderlust probably it's a worse affliction than the Wanderlust . 
I just wonder She told herself that she had everything in the world . 
Kennicott smoked a pipe while she leaned back in the buggy and let her tired spirit be absorbed in the Nirvana of the incomparable sky . 
They lurched to the highroad and awoke from their sun soaked drowse at the sound of the clopping hoofs . 
Kennicott brought down a fat red squirrel and at dusk he had a dramatic shot at a flight of ducks whirling down from the upper air , skimming the lake , instantly vanishing . 
They drove home under the sunset . 
Mounds of straw , and wheat stacks like bee hives , stood out in startling rose and gold , and the green tufted stubble glistened . 
As the vast girdle of crimson darkened , the fulfilled land became autumnal in deep reds and browns . 
The black road before the buggy turned to a faint lavender , then was blotted to uncertain grayness . 
Cattle came in a long line up to the barred gates of the farmyards , and over the resting land was a dark glow . 
Carol had found the dignity and greatness which had failed her in Main Street . 
II Till they had a maid they took noon dinner and six o'clock supper at Mrs. Gurrey's boarding house . 
But she was unexpectedly cheerful , and her dining room , with its thin tablecloth on a long pine table , had the decency of clean bareness . 
You will enjoy Gopher Prairie very much , Mrs. Kennicott , petitioned Raymie . 
His eyes were like those of a dog waiting to be let in out of the cold . 
He passed the stewed apricots effusively . 
There are a great many bright cultured people here . 
Mrs. Wilks , the Christian Science reader , is a very bright woman though I am not a Scientist myself , in fact I sing in the Episcopal choir . 
Gimme the butter , Carrie , was Kennicott's comment . 
She defied him by encouraging Raymie Do you have amateur dramatics and so on here ? Oh yes ! The town's just full of talent . 
The Knights of Pythias put on a dandy minstrel show last year . 
It's nice you're so enthusiastic . 
Oh , do you really think so ? Lots of folks jolly me for trying to get up shows and so on . 
I tell them they have more artistic gifts than they know . 
Lovely country , isn't it . 
And did you make some calls ? The mercantile life isn't inspiring like medicine . 
It must be wonderful to see how patients trust you , doctor . 
It's me that's got to do all the trusting . 
Be damn sight more wonderful 'f they'd pay their bills , grumbled Kennicott and , to Carol , he whispered something which sounded like gentleman hen . 
But Raymie's pale eyes were watering at her . 
Carol thought she heard a grunt from the traveling salesman at the end of the table , and Kennicott's jerking elbow was a grunt embodied . 
It went into details , disgustingly ! And the English was real poor . 
I spoke to the library about it , and they took it off the shelves . 
What's the name of that Balzac yarn ? Where can I get hold of it ? giggled the traveling salesman . 
I really haven't much , said Carol . 
He shook his finger at her . 
Now , now , you're too modest . 
I'm sure we can all see that you have a perfectly corking sense of humor . 
Kennicott wouldn't marry a lady that didn't have . 
We all know how he loves his fun ! You bet . 
I'm a jokey old bird . 
Come on , Carrie let's beat it , remarked Kennicott . 
Raymie implored , And what is your chief artistic interest , Mrs. Kennicott ? Oh Aware that the traveling salesman had murmured , Dentistry , she desperately hazarded , Architecture . 
That's a real nice art . 
Tin ! observed the traveling salesman . 
Raymie bared his teeth like a belligerent mouse . 
Well , what if it is tin ? That's not my fault . 
I told D. H. to make it polished granite . 
You make me tired ! Leave us go ! Come on , Carrie , leave us go ! from Kennicott . 
Raymie waylaid them in the hall and secretly informed Carol that she musn't mind the traveling salesman's coarseness he belonged to the hwa pollwa . 
All present spoke of the many charms of the bride , formerly Miss Carol Milford of St . 
Games and stunts were the order of the day , with merry talk and conversation . 
At a late hour dainty refreshments were served , and the party broke up with many expressions of pleasure at the pleasant affair . 
Among those present were Mesdames Kennicott , Elder Dr . 
nee Miss Carol Milford of St . 
Paul , whose family are socially prominent in Minneapolis and Mankato . 
Paul Public Library , in which city Dr . 
Will had the good fortune to meet her . 
The city of Gopher Prairie welcomes her to our midst and prophesies for her many happy years m the energetic city of the twin lakes and the future . 
IV She knew that if she was ever to effect any of the reforms which she had pictured , she must have a starting place . 
What confused her during the three or four months after her marriage was not lack of perception that she must be definite , but sheer careless happiness of her first home . 
She found a maid plump radiant Bea Sorenson from Scandia Crossing . 
Bea was droll in her attempt to be at once a respectful servant and a bosom friend . 
They laughed together over the fact that the stove did not draw , over the slipperiness of fish in the pan . 
Like a child playing Grandma in a trailing skirt , Carol paraded uptown for her marketing , crying greetings to housewives along the way . 
Everybody bowed to her , strangers and all , and made her feel that they wanted her , that she belonged here . 
In city shops she was merely A Customer a hat , a voice to bore a harassed clerk . 
Here she was Mrs. Doc Kennicott , and her preferences in grape fruit and manners were known and remembered and worth discussing . 
even if they weren't worth fulfilling . 
Shopping was a delight of brisk conferences . 
With that skip jack Dave Dyer , the druggist , she conducted a long mock quarrel . 
She pretended that he cheated her in the price of magazines and candy he pretended she was a detective from the Twin Cities . 
He hid behind the prescription counter , and when she stamped her foot he came out wailing , Honest , I haven't done nothing crooked today not yet . 
She never recalled her first impression of Main Street never had precisely the same despair at its ugliness . 
By the end of two shopping tours everything had changed proportions . 
As she never entered it , the Minniemashie House ceased to exist for her . 
When she entered Mr. Ludelmeyer's store and he wheezed , Goot mornin' , Mrs. Kennicott . 
She could not find half the kinds of food she wanted , but that made shopping more of an adventure . 
When she did contrive to get sweetbreads at Dahl Oleson's Meat Market the triumph was so vast that she buzzed with excitement and admired the strong wise butcher , Mr. Dahl . 
She appreciated the homely ease of village life . 
She found beauty in the children . 
She had suspected that her married friends exaggerated their passion for children . 
But in her work in the library , children had become individuals to her , citizens of the State with their own rights and their own senses of humor . 
She touched the thought , It would be sweet to have a baby of my own . 
Tiny No ! Not yet ! There's so much to do . 
And I'm still tired from the job . 
The dust became golden in the low sun the street was filled with the fragrance of burning leaves . 
V But she hazily wanted some one to whom she could say what she thought . 
On a slow afternoon when she fidgeted over sewing and wished that the telephone would ring , Bea announced Miss Vida Sherwin . 
But you never did look at Vida Sherwin in detail . 
Her electric activity veiled her . 
She was as energetic as a chipmunk . 
Her fingers fluttered her sympathy came out in spurts she sat on the edge of a chair in eagerness to be near her auditor , to send her enthusiasms and optimism across . 
She rushed into the room pouring out I'm afraid you'll think the teachers have been shabby in not coming near you , but we wanted to give you a chance to get settled . 
I am Vida Sherwin , and I try to teach French and English and a few other things in the high school . 
I've been hoping to know the teachers . 
You see , I was a librarian Oh , you needn't tell me . 
I know all about you ! Awful how much I know this gossipy village . 
We need you so much here . 
but it's a rough diamond , and we need you for the polishing , and we're ever so humble She stopped for breath and finished her compliment with a smile . 
If I COULD help you in any way Would I be committing the unpardonable sin if I whispered that I think Gopher Prairie is a tiny bit ugly ? Of course it's ugly . 
Dreadfully ! Though I'm probably the only person in town to whom you could safely say that . 
But I don't care so much about the ugliness . 
It's the spirit that gives me hope . 
It needs live creatures like you to awaken it . 
I shall slave drive you ! Splendid . 
What shall I do ? I've been wondering if it would be possible to have a good architect come here to lecture . 
Carol had the empty expression of one who finds that she has been affectionately bowing to a complete stranger . 
But I'm afraid I wouldn't be much good at that . 
My religion is so foggy . 
I don't care a bit for dogma . 
Though I do stick firmly to the belief in the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man and the leadership of Jesus . 
As you do , of course . 
Carol looked respectable and thought about having tea . 
And that's all you need teach in Sunday School . 
Then there's the library board . 
You'd be so useful on that . 
And of course there's our women's study club the Thanatopsis Club . 
Are they doing anything ? Or do they read papers made out of the Encyclopedia ? Miss Sherwin shrugged . 
But still , they are so earnest . 
They will respond to your fresher interest . 
And the Thanatopsis does do a good social work they've made the city plant ever so many trees , and they run the rest room for farmers' wives . 
And they do take such an interest in refinement and culture . 
So in fact , so very unique . 
Carol was disappointed by nothing very tangible . 
She said politely , I'll think them all over . 
I must have a while to look around first . 
Miss Sherwin darted to her , smoothed her hair , peered at her . 
Oh , my dear , don't you suppose I know ? These first tender days of marriage they're sacred to me . 
Home , and children that need you , and depend on you to keep them alive , and turn to you with their wrinkly little smiles . 
I'm afraid you'll think I'm conservative . 
I am ! So much to conserve . 
All this treasure of American ideals . 
Sturdiness and democracy and opportunity . 
Maybe not at Palm Beach . 
But , thank heaven , we're free from such social distinctions in Gopher Prairie . 
I have only one good quality overwhelming belief in the brains and hearts of our nation , our state , our town . 
It's so strong that sometimes I do have a tiny effect on the haughty ten thousandaires . 
I shake 'em up and make 'em believe in ideals yes , in themselves . 
But I get into a rut of teaching . 
I need young critical things like you to punch me up . 
Tell me , what are you reading ? I've been re reading The Damnation of Theron Ware . 
Do you know it ? Yes . 
Man wanted to tear down , not build up . 
Oh , I do hope I'm not a sentimentalist . 
But I can't see any use in this high art stuff that doesn't encourage us day laborers to plod on . 
Ensued a fifteen minute argument about the oldest topic in the world It's art but is it pretty ? Carol tried to be eloquent regarding honesty of observation . 
Miss Sherwin stood out for sweetness and a cautious use of the uncomfortable properties of light . 
At the end Carol cried I don't care how much we disagree . 
It's a relief to have somebody talk something besides crops . 
Let's make Gopher Prairie rock to its foundations let's have afternoon tea instead of afternoon coffee . 
Miss Sherwin confided her latest scheme moral motion pictures for country districts , with light from a portable dynamo hitched to a Ford engine . 
Bea was twice called to fill the hot water pitcher and to make cinnamon toast . 
When Kennicott came home at five he tried to be courtly , as befits the husband of one who has afternoon tea . 
Carol suggested that Miss Sherwin stay for supper , and that Kennicott invite Guy Pollock , the much praised lawyer , the poetic bachelor . 
Yes , Pollock could come . 
Yes , he was over the grippe which had prevented his going to Sam Clark's party . 
The man would be an opinionated politician , heavily jocular about The Bride . 
But at the entrance of Guy Pollock she discovered a personality . 
Pollock was a man of perhaps thirty eight , slender , still , deferential . 
She fancied that his even grayness might reveal a thousand tints of lavender and blue and silver . 
At supper he hinted his love for Sir Thomas Browne , Thoreau , Agnes Repplier , Arthur Symons , Claude Washburn , Charles Flandrau . 
He presented his idols diffidently , but he expanded in Carol's bookishness , in Miss Sherwin's voluminous praise , in Kennicott's tolerance of any one who amused his wife . 
Carol wondered why Guy Pollock went on digging at routine law cases why he remained in Gopher Prairie . 
She had no one whom she could ask . 
Neither Kennicott nor Vida Sherwin would understand that there might be reasons why a Pollock should not remain in Gopher Prairie . 
She enjoyed the faint mystery . 
She felt triumphant and rather literary . 
She already had a Group . 
It would be only a while now before she provided the town with fanlights and a knowledge of Galsworthy . 
She dismissed the parlor furniture the golden oak table with brass knobs , the moldy brocade chairs , the picture of The Doctor . 
She went to Minneapolis , to scamper through department stores and small Tenth Street shops devoted to ceramics and high thought . 
She had to ship her treasures , but she wanted to bring them back in her arms . 
She hid the sacred family phonograph in the dining room , and replaced its stand with a square cabinet on which was a squat blue jar between yellow candles . 
Kennicott decided against a fireplace . 
We'll have a new house in a couple of years , anyway . 
She decorated only one room . 
The rest , Kennicott hinted , she'd better leave till he made a ten strike . 
The brown cube of a house stirred and awakened it seemed to be in motion it welcomed her back from shopping it lost its mildewed repression . 
Every one in town took an interest in the refurnishing . 
Mrs. Bogart lived across the alley from the rear of Carol's house . 
She was a widow , and a Prominent Baptist , and a Good Influence . 
Mrs. Bogart was not the acid type of Good Influence . 
She was the soft , damp , fat , sighing , indigestive , clinging , melancholy , depressingly hopeful kind . 
Carol had noted that Mrs. Bogart from her side window kept an eye upon the house . 
The Kennicotts and Mrs. Bogart did not move in the same sets which meant precisely the same in Gopher Prairie as it did on Fifth Avenue or in Mayfair . 
But the good widow came calling . 
It's been such a pleasure and Just run in and see me any time . 
I hope Will is well ? I thought he looked a wee mite peaked . 
It was twenty minutes later when Mrs. Bogart finally oozed out of the front door . 
Carol ran back into the living room and jerked open the windows . 
That woman has left damp finger prints in the air , she said . 
Kennicott had never thought of giving her an allowance . 
But it was too much trouble to explain to Kennicott's kindly stubbornness that she was a practical housekeeper as well as a flighty playmate . 
She bought a budget plan account book and made her budgets as exact as budgets are likely to be when they lack budgets . 
But the budget book made her realize how inexact were her finances . 
She became self conscious occasionally she was indignant that she should always have to petition him for the money with which to buy his food . 
It was a nuisance to have to run down the street after him because she had forgotten to ask him for money at breakfast . 
But she couldn't hurt his feelings , she reflected . 
He liked the lordliness of giving largess . 
She tried to reduce the frequency of begging by opening accounts and having the bills sent to him . 
She had found that staple groceries , sugar , flour , could be most cheaply purchased at Axel Egge's rustic general store . 
She said sweetly to Axel I think I'd better open a charge account here . 
I don't do no business except for cash , grunted Axel . 
She flared , Do you know who I am ? Yuh , sure , I know . 
The doc is good for it . 
But that's yoost a rule I made . 
I do business for cash . 
She stared at his red impassive face , and her fingers had the undignified desire to slap him , but her reason agreed with him . 
You shouldn't break your rule for me . 
Her rage had not been lost . 
It had been transferred to her husband . 
She wanted ten pounds of sugar in a hurry , but she had no money . 
She ran up the stairs to Kennicott's office . 
On the door was a sign advertising a headache cure and stating , The doctor is out , back at Naturally , the blank space was not filled out . 
She ran down to the drug store the doctor's club . 
As she entered she heard Mrs. Dyer demanding , Dave , I've got to have some money . 
Carol saw that her husband was there , and two other men , all listening in amusement . 
Dave Dyer snapped , How much do you want ? Dollar be enough ? No , it won't ! I've got to get some underclothes for the kids . 
Why , good Lord , they got enough now to fill the closet so I couldn't find my hunting boots , last time I wanted them . 
You got to give me ten dollars Carol perceived that Mrs. Dyer was accustomed to this indignity . 
She perceived that the men , particularly Dave , regarded it as an excellent jest . 
She waited she knew what would come it did . 
Dave yelped , Where's that ten dollars I gave you last year ? and he looked to the other men to laugh . 
Cold and still , Carol walked up to Kennicott and commanded , I want to see you upstairs . 
Why something the matter ? Yes ! He clumped after her , up the stairs , into his barren office . 
Just now I've heard Mrs. Dyer going through the same humiliation . 
And I I'm in the same position ! I have to beg you for money . 
I now humbly beg you to give me the money with which to buy meals for you to eat . 
And hereafter to remember it . 
The next time , I sha'n't beg . 
Do you understand ? I can't go on being a slave Her defiance , her enjoyment of the role , ran out . 
I swear I won't again . 
By golly I won't ! He pressed fifty dollars upon her , and after that he remembered to give her money regularly . 
Daily she determined , But I must have a stated amount be business like . 
I must do something about it . 
And daily she didn't do anything about it . 
III Mrs. Bogart had , by the simpering viciousness of her comments on the new furniture , stirred Carol to economy . 
She spoke judiciously to Bea about left overs . 
But she was a deliberate and joyous spendthrift in her preparations for her first party , the housewarming . 
She made lists on every envelope and laundry slip in her desk . 
She sent orders to Minneapolis fancy grocers . 
She pinned patterns and sewed . 
She was irritated when Kennicott was jocular about these frightful big doings that are going on . 
She regarded the affair as an attack on Gopher Prairie's timidity in pleasure . 
I'll make 'em lively , if nothing else . 
I'll make 'em stop regarding parties as committee meetings . 
Kennicott usually considered himself the master of the house . 
At his desire , she went hunting , which was his symbol of happiness , and she ordered porridge for breakfast , which was his symbol of morality . 
But when he came home on the afternoon before the housewarming he found himself a slave , an intruder , a blunderer . 
Carol wailed , Fix the furnace so you won't have to touch it after supper . 
And for heaven's sake take that horrible old door mat off the porch . 
And put on your nice brown and white shirt . 
PLEASE hurry ! She was as unreasonable as an amateur leading woman on a first night , and he was reduced to humility . 
When she came down to supper , when she stood in the doorway , he gasped . 
Even while they were removing their overshoes they were peeping at the new decorations . 
But her high spirits slackened as she beheld them form in dress parade , in a long , silent , uneasy circle clear round the living room . 
She felt that she had been magically whisked back to her first party , at Sam Clark's . 
Have I got to lift them , like so many pigs of iron ? I don't know that I can make them happy , but I'll make them hectic . 
For me , won't you all join in an old fashioned square dance ? And Mr. Dyer will call . 
Half of them were silent half resumed the discussions of that afternoon in the store . 
Oh , let them alone . 
They must like it , or they wouldn't do it . 
Even the dancers were gradually crushed by the invisible force of fifty perfectly pure and well behaved and negative minds and they sat down , two by two . 
In twenty minutes the party was again elevated to the decorum of a prayer meeting . 
We're going to do something exciting , Carol exclaimed to her new confidante , Vida Sherwin . 
She saw that in the growing quiet her voice had carried across the room . 
Nat Hicks , Ella Stowbody , and Dave Dyer were abstracted , fingers and lips slightly moving . 
But I will not have anybody use the word stunt' in my house , she whispered to Miss Sherwin . 
But the poor dear Longing for what he calls self expression' and no training in anything except selling shoes . 
And some day when he gets away from Harry Haydock's patronage and ridicule , he'll do something fine . 
Carol apologized for her superciliousness . 
She urged Raymie , and warned the planners of stunts , We all want you to sing , Mr. Wutherspoon . 
You're the only famous actor I'm going to let appear on the stage tonight . 
In her affection for Raymie's defender , in her desire to discover artistic talent , Carol prepared to be delighted by the recital . 
Raymie sang Fly as a Bird , Thou Art My Dove , and When the Little Swallow Leaves Its Tiny Nest , all in a reasonably bad offertory tenor . 
She tried to look admiring , for the benefit of Miss Sherwin , that trusting admirer of all that was or conceivably could be the good , the true , and the beautiful . 
She cried , Now we're going to play an idiotic game which I learned in Chicago . 
You will have to take off your shoes , for a starter ! After that you will probably break your knees and shoulder blades . 
A few eyebrows indicating a verdict that Doc Kennicott's bride was noisy and improper . 
I shall choose the most vicious , like Juanita Haydock and myself , as the shepherds . 
The rest of you are wolves . 
Your shoes are the sheep . 
The wolves go out into the hall . 
The wolves chuck the captured shoes out into the hall . 
No one excused ! Come on ! Shoes off ! Every one looked at every one else and waited for every one else to begin . 
Carol kicked off her silver slippers , and ignored the universal glance at her arches . 
The embarrassed but loyal Vida Sherwin unbuttoned her high black shoes . 
Ezra Stowbody cackled , Well , you're a terror to old folks . 
You're like the gals I used to go horseback riding with , back in the sixties . 
Ain't much accustomed to attending parties barefoot , but here goes ! With a whoop and a gallant jerk Ezra snatched off his elastic sided Congress shoes . 
The others giggled and followed . 
The wolves peered to make out landmarks , they touched gliding arms which did not seem to be attached to a body , they quivered with a rapture of fear . 
Come on , you wolves . 
Guy Pollock's discreet brown scarf hung down his back . 
Young Rita Simons's net blouse had lost two buttons , and betrayed more of her delicious plump shoulder than was regarded as pure in Gopher Prairie . 
Whether by shock , disgust , joy of combat , or physical activity , all the party were freed from their years of social decorum . 
She mercifully had combs , mirrors , brushes , needle and thread ready . 
She permitted them to restore the divine decency of buttons . 
These , Carol announced , are real Chinese masquerade costumes . 
I got them from an importing shop in Minneapolis . 
While they were shyly rustling the paper costumes she disappeared . 
When she dropped her pose and smiled down she discovered Kennicott apoplectic with domestic pride and gray Guy Pollock staring beseechingly . 
For a second she saw nothing in all the pink and brown mass of their faces save the hunger of the two men . 
She shook off the spell and ran down . 
We're going to have a real Chinese concert . 
Pollock , Kennicott , and , well , Stowbody are drummers the rest of us sing and play the fife . 
The fifes were combs with tissue paper the drums were tabourets and the sewing table . 
Loren Wheeler , editor of the Dauntless , led the orchestra , with a ruler and a totally inaccurate sense of rhythm . 
None of them save that city rounder Harry Haydock had heard of any Chinese dish except chop sooey . 
Carol relaxed , and found that she was shockingly tired . 
She had carried them on her thin shoulders . 
She could not keep it up . 
She longed for her father , that artist at creating hysterical parties . 
She thought of smoking a cigarette , to shock them , and dismissed the obscene thought before it was quite formed . 
She sighed , Oh , let 'em alone . 
No , it didn't cost much ! Best party this town ever saw . 
Only Don't cross your legs in that costume . 
Shows your knees too plain . 
Then she turned wearily to Kennicott in a house filled with quiet and crumbs and shreds of Chinese costumes . 
He was gurgling , I tell you , Carrie , you certainly are a wonder , and guess you're right about waking folks up . 
Now you've showed 'em how , they won't go on having the same old kind of parties and stunts and everything . 
Here ! Don't touch a thing ! Done enough . 
Pop up to bed , and I'll clear up . 
His wise surgeon's hands stroked her shoulder , and her irritation at his clumsiness was lost in his strength . 
V From the Weekly Dauntless One of the most delightful social events of recent months was held Wednesday evening in the housewarming of Dr . 
and Mrs. Kennicott , who have completely redecorated their charming home on Poplar Street , and is now extremely nifty in modern color scheme . 
Dainty refreshments were served in true Oriental style , and one and all voted a delightful time . 
VI The week after , the Chet Dashaways gave a party . 
The circle of mourners kept its place all evening , and Dave Dyer did the stunt of the Norwegian and the hen . 
CHAPTER VII I GOPHER PRAIRIE was digging in for the winter . 
Through late November and all December it snowed daily the thermometer was at zero and might drop to twenty below , or thirty . 
Winter is not a season in the North Middlewest it is an industry . 
Storm sheds were erected at every door . 
The universal sign of winter was the town handyman Miles Bjornstam , a tall , thick , red mustached bachelor , opinionated atheist , general store arguer , cynical Santa Claus . 
Children loved him , and he sneaked away from work to tell them improbable stories of sea faring and horse trading and bears . 
The children's parents either laughed at him or hated him . 
He was the one democrat in town . 
He called both Lyman Cass the miller and the Finn homesteader from Lost Lake by their first names . 
He was known as The Red Swede , and considered slightly insane . 
Now , for a week , he was commissioner general of Gopher Prairie . 
He was the only person besides the repairman at Sam Clark's who understood plumbing . 
Everybody begged him to look over the furnace and the water pipes . 
He rushed from house to house till after bedtime ten o'clock . 
But he was courtly to Carol . 
He stooped to examine the furnace flues he straightened , glanced down at her , and hemmed , Got to fix your furnace , no matter what else I do . 
The poorer houses of Gopher Prairie , where the services of Miles Bjornstam were a luxury which included the shanty of Miles Bjornstam were banked to the lower windows with earth and manure . 
The farmers came into town in home made sleighs , with bed quilts and hay piled in the rough boxes . 
Winter garments surpassed even personal gossip as the topic at parties . 
It was good form to ask , Put on your heavies yet ? There were as many distinctions in wraps as in motor cars . 
The lesser sort appeared in yellow and black dogskin coats , but Kennicott was lordly in a long raccoon ulster and a new seal cap . 
Carol herself stirred Main Street by a loose coat of nutria . 
Her finger tips loved the silken fur . 
Her liveliest activity now was organizing outdoor sports in the motor paralyzed town . 
The automobile and bridge whist had not only made more evident the social divisions in Gopher Prairie but they had also enfeebled the love of activity . 
It was so rich looking to sit and drive and so easy . 
Skiing and sliding were stupid and old fashioned . 
Paul or New York in going coasting . 
Carol did inspire a successful skating party in mid November . 
Plover Lake glistened in clear sweeps of gray green ice , ringing to the skates . 
On shore the ice tipped reeds clattered in the wind , and oak twigs with stubborn last leaves hung against a milky sky . 
Harry Haydock did figure eights , and Carol was certain that she had found the perfect life . 
She had to nag them . 
She badgered another group into going skiing . 
She was grateful when Kennicott invited her to go rabbit hunting in the woods . 
She waded down stilly cloisters between burnt stump and icy oak , through drifts marked with a million hieroglyphics of rabbit and mouse and bird . 
She squealed as he leaped on a pile of brush and fired at the rabbit which ran out . 
He belonged there , masculine in reefer and sweater and high laced boots . 
She rose to a radiance of sun on snow . 
Snug in her furs she trotted up town . 
It was Saturday , and the neighbors' sons were getting up the winter fuel . 
Behind walls of corded wood in back yards their sawbucks stood in depressions scattered with canary yellow flakes of sawdust . 
The boys wore shoe packs , blue flannel shirts with enormous pearl buttons , and mackinaws of crimson , lemon yellow , and foxy brown . 
When her eyes had recovered she felt expanded , drunk with health , mistress of life . 
The world was so luminous that she sat down at her rickety little desk in the living room to make a poem . 
In the mid afternoon of this same day Kennicott was called into the country . 
It was Bea's evening out her evening for the Lutheran Dance . 
Carol was alone from three till midnight . 
She wearied of reading pure love stories in the magazines and sat by a radiator , beginning to brood . 
Thus she chanced to discover that she had nothing to do . 
II She had , she meditated , passed through the novelty of seeing the town and meeting people , of skating and sliding and hunting . 
Bea was competent there was no household labor except sewing and darning and gossipy assistance to Bea in bed making . 
She couldn't satisfy her ingenuity in planning meals . 
At Dahl Oleson's Meat Market you didn't give orders you wofully inquired whether there was anything today besides steak and pork and ham . 
The cuts of beef were not cuts . 
Lamb chops were as exotic as sharks' fins . 
The meat dealers shipped their best to the city , with its higher prices . 
In all the shops there was the same lack of choice . 
Routine care was all she could devote to the house . 
Only by such fussing as the Widow Bogart's could she make it fill her time . 
She could not have outside employment . 
To the village doctor's wife it was taboo . 
She was a woman with a working brain and no work . 
Children , yes , she wanted them , but She was not quite ready . 
She was sorry Perhaps he had made all the mystery of love a mechanical cautiousness but She fled from the thought with a dubious , Some day . 
Her reforms , her impulses toward beauty in raw Main Street , they had become indistinct . 
But she would set them going now . 
She would ! She swore it with soft fist beating the edges of the radiator . 
And at the end of all her vows she had no notion as to when and where the crusade was to begin . 
Become an authentic part of the town ? She began to think with unpleasant lucidity . 
She reflected that she did not know whether the people liked her . 
She was poisoned with doubt , as she drooped up to bed . 
Next day , through her shopping , her mind sat back and observed . 
Was that merely his usual manner ? It's infuriating to have to pay attention to what people think . 
But here I'm spied on . 
I mustn't let it make me self conscious , she coaxed herself overstimulated by the drug of thought , and offensively on the defensive . 
III A thaw which stripped the snow from the sidewalks a ringing iron night when the lakes could be heard booming a clear roistering morning . 
In tam o'shanter and tweed skirt Carol felt herself a college junior going out to play hockey . 
She wanted to whoop , her legs ached to run . 
On the way home from shopping she yielded , as a pup would have yielded . 
Their triple glare was paralyzing . 
Across the street , at another window , the curtain had secretively moved . 
She stopped , walked on sedately , changed from the girl Carol into Mrs. Dr . 
was the social cornice of Gopher Prairie . 
It was the country club , the diplomatic set , the St . 
Cecilia , the Ritz oval room , the Club de Vingt . 
To belong to it was to be in . 
Though its membership partly coincided with that of the Thanatopsis study club , the Jolly Seventeen as a separate entity guffawed at the Thanatopsis , and considered it middle class and even highbrow . 
Most of the Jolly Seventeen were young married women , with their husbands as associate members . 
Once a week they had a women's afternoon bridge once a month the husbands joined them for supper and evening bridge twice a year they had dances at I. O. O. F. Hall . 
Ella Stowbody had once gone to a Jolly Seventeen Soiree in the village hack , hitherto confined to chief mourners at funerals and Harry Haydock and Dr . 
Terry Gould always appeared in the town's only specimens of evening clothes . 
Carol stepped into a sirocco of furnace heat . 
Despite her flabby resolves she had not yet learned bridge . 
She was winningly apologetic about it to Juanita , and ashamed that she should have to go on being apologetic . 
But Carol kept up the appealing bridal manner so far as possible . 
She twittered , You're perfectly right . 
I'll make Will start teaching me this very evening . 
Her supplication had all the sound of birdies in the nest , and Easter church bells , and frosted Christmas cards . 
Internally she snarled , That ought to be saccharine enough . 
She sat in the smallest rocking chair , a model of Victorian modesty . 
But she saw or she imagined that the women who had gurgled at her so welcomingly when she had first come to Gopher Prairie were nodding at her brusquely . 
Carol crept back to her chair . 
In the fervor of discussing the game they ignored her . 
She was not used to being a wallflower . 
Immediately she wanted to make peace . 
She was close to simpering in the sweetness with which she addressed Mrs Howland I think that is the prettiest display of beef tea your husband has in his store . 
Oh yes , Gopher Prairie isn't so much behind the times , gibed Mrs. Howland . 
Their rebuffs made her haughty her haughtiness irritated them to franker rebuffs they were working up to a state of painfully righteous war when they were saved by the coming of food . 
Though Juanita Haydock was highly advanced in the matters of finger bowls , doilies , and bath mats , her refreshments were typical of all the afternoon coffees . 
Juanita's best friends , Mrs. Dyer and Mrs. Dashaway , passed large dinner plates , each with a spoon , a fork , and a coffee cup without saucer . 
They apologized and discussed the afternoon's game as they passed through the thicket of women's feet . 
Then they distributed hot buttered rolls , coffee poured from an enamel ware pot , stuffed olives , potato salad , and angel's food cake . 
There was , even in the most strictly conforming Gopher Prairie circles , a certain option as to collations . 
The olives need not be stuffed . 
Doughnuts were in some houses well thought of as a substitute for the hot buttered rolls . 
But there was in all the town no heretic save Carol who omitted angel's food . 
Carol had a suspicion that the thriftier housewives made the afternoon treat do for evening supper . 
She tried to get back into the current . 
She edged over to Mrs. McGanum . 
Westlake , and the wife of Westlake's partner , Dr . 
Kennicott asserted that Westlake and McGanum and their contaminated families were tricky , but Carol had found them gracious . 
She asked for friendliness by crying to Mrs. McGanum , How is the baby's throat now ? and she was attentive while Mrs. McGanum rocked and knitted and placidly described symptoms . 
Vida Sherwin came in after school , with Miss Ethel Villets , the town librarian . 
Miss Sherwin's optimistic presence gave Carol more confidence . 
She informed the circle I drove almost down to Wahkeenyan with Will , a few days ago . 
Isn't the country lovely ! And I do admire the Scandinavian farmers down there so their big red barns and silos and milking machines and everything . 
Do you all know that lonely Lutheran church , with the tin covered spire , that stands out alone on a hill ? It's so bleak somehow it seems so brave . 
I do think the Scandinavians are the hardiest and best people Oh , do you THINK so ? protested Mrs. Jackson Elder . 
My husband says the Svenskas that work in the planing mill are perfectly terrible so silent and cranky , and so selfish , the way they keep demanding raises . 
If they had their way they'd simply ruin the business . 
Yes , and they're simply GHASTLY hired girls ! wailed Mrs. Dave Dyer . 
I swear , I work myself to skin and bone trying to please my hired girls when I can get them ! I do everything in the world for them . 
Juanita Haydock rattled , They're ungrateful , all that class of people . 
I do think the domestic problem is simply becoming awful . 
They were off , riding hard . 
I don't want to boast , but I must say I don't have much trouble with Bea . 
HOW MUCH DO YOU PAY , Mrs. KENNICOTT ? Yes ! How much do you pay ? insisted half a dozen . 
W why , I pay six a week , she feebly confessed . 
Juanita protested , Don't you think it's hard on the rest of us when you pay so much ? Juanita's demand was re inforced by the universal glower . 
I don't care ! A maid has one of the hardest jobs on earth . 
She works from ten to eighteen hours a day . 
She has to wash slimy dishes and dirty clothes . 
Stop it ! Carol Kennicott , you're probably right , but you're too much ahead of the times . 
Juanita , quit looking so belligerent . 
What is this , a card party or a hen fight ? Carol , you stop admiring yourself as the Joan of Arc of the hired girls , or I'll spank you . 
You come over here and talk libraries with Ethel Villets . 
Boooooo ! If there's any more pecking , I'll take charge of the hen roost myself ! They all laughed artificially , and Carol obediently talked libraries . 
She devoted herself to admiring the spinsterish Miss Villets and immediately committed another offense against the laws of decency . 
We haven't seen you at the library yet , Miss Villets reproved . 
I've wanted to run in so much but I've been getting settled and I'll probably come in so often you'll get tired of me ! I hear you have such a nice library . 
There are many who like it . 
We have two thousand more books than Wakamin . 
I'm sure you are largely responsible . 
I've had some experience , in St . 
So I have been informed . 
Not that I entirely approve of library methods in these large cities . 
So careless , letting tramps and all sorts of dirty persons practically sleep in the reading rooms . 
I know , but the poor souls Well , I'm sure you will agree with me in one thing The chief task of a librarian is to get people to read . 
Oh ! Carol repented her Oh . 
Books are cheaper than minds . 
Nothing is cheaper than the minds of some of these children that come in and bother me simply because their mothers don't keep them home where they belong . 
She flinched before their dislike . 
She reflected , It was my fault . 
And I opposed them so much . 
Only I can't ! I can't be one of them if I must damn all the maids toiling in filthy kitchens , all the ragged hungry children . 
CHAPTER VIII DON'T I , in looking for things to do , show that I'm not attentive enough to Will ? Am I impressed enough by his work ? I will be . 
Oh , I will be . 
And he went down to fix the furnace . 
At supper she asked , For instance , what did you do today ? Do today ? How do you mean ? Medically . 
But the unhappy woman doesn't sound routine ! Her ? Just case of nerves . 
You can't do much with these marriage mix ups . 
But dear , PLEASE , will you tell me about the next case that you do think is interesting ? Sure . 
Tell you about anything that Say that's pretty good salmon . 
Get it at Howland's ? II Four days after the Jolly Seventeen debacle Vida Sherwin called and casually blew Carol's world to pieces . 
May I come in and gossip a while ? she said , with such excess of bright innocence that Carol was uneasy . 
But I know one thing for certain You're the pluckiest little idiot in the world . 
And so you are about to flay me alive . 
Carol was cheerful about it . 
But I want you to take a big part in vitalizing Gopher Prairie and so Such a very unique opportunity and Am I silly ? I know what you mean . 
I was too abrupt at the Jolly Seventeen . 
Matter of fact , I'm glad you told them some wholesome truths about servants . 
I wonder if you understand that in a secluded community like this every newcomer is on test ? People cordial to her but watching her all the time . 
I remember when a Latin teacher came here from Wellesley , they resented her broad A. Were sure it was affected . 
I feel so inconspicuous and so normal so normal that there's nothing about me to discuss . 
I can't realize that Mr. and Mrs. Haydock must gossip about me . 
Carol was working up a small passion of distaste . 
And I don't like it . 
It makes me crawly to think of their daring to talk over all I do and say . 
Pawing me over ! I resent it . 
I hate Wait , child ! Perhaps they resent some things in you . 
I want you to try and be impersonal . 
They'd paw over anybody who came in new . 
Didn't you , with newcomers in College ? Yes . 
Well then ! Will you be impersonal ? I'm paying you the compliment of supposing that you can be . 
I want you to be big enough to help me make this town worth while . 
I'll be as impersonal as cold boiled potatoes . 
What do they say about me ? Really . 
Of course the illiterate ones resent your references to anything farther away than Minneapolis . 
They're so suspicious that's it , suspicious . 
And some think you dress too well . 
Oh , they do , do they ! Shall I dress in gunny sacking to suit them ? Please ! Are you going to be a baby ? I'll be good , sulkily . 
You certainly will , or I won't tell you one single thing . 
You must understand this I'm not asking you to change yourself . 
Just want you to know what they think . 
You must do that , no matter how absurd their prejudices are , if you're going to handle them . 
I am not not any more ! Of course you are . 
Oh , if I really could help So they think I'm affected ? My lamb , they do ! Now don't say they're nervy . 
After all , Gopher Prairie standards are as reasonable to Gopher Prairie as Lake Shore Drive standards are to Chicago . 
And there's more Gopher Prairies than there are Chicagos . 
And I'll tell you the whole story They think you're showing off when you say American' instead of Ammurrican . 
They think you're too frivolous . 
Life's so serious to them that they can't imagine any kind of laughter except Juanita's snortling . 
All right to be kind , but they say you act as though she were your cousin . 
And they think you were eccentric in furnishing this room they think the broad couch and that Japanese dingus are absurd . 
I wonder if you ought to have told me ? It will make me self conscious . 
I wonder the same thing . 
Only answer I can get is the old saw about knowledge being power . 
And some day you'll see how absorbing it is to have power , even here to control the town Oh , I'm a crank . 
But I do like to see things moving . 
It makes these people seem so beastly and treacherous , when I've been perfectly natural with them . 
But let's have it all . 
What did they say about my Chinese house warming party ? Why , uh Go on . 
Or I'll make up worse things than anything you can tell me . 
But I guess some of them felt you were showing off pretending that your husband is richer than he is . 
I can't Their meanness of mind is beyond any horrors I could imagine . 
Chinese things are not very expensive , and I made my own costume Stop it ! Stop beating me ! I know all that . 
What they meant was they felt you were starting dangerous competition by giving a party such as most people here can't afford . 
Four thousand is a pretty big income for this town . 
I never thought of starting competition . 
Will you believe that it was in all love and friendliness that I tried to give them the gayest party I could ? It was foolish it was childish and noisy . 
But I did mean it so well . 
I know , of course . 
And they've been ridiculing it , all this while ! She was huddled on the couch . 
Vida was stroking her hair , muttering , I shouldn't Shrouded in shame , Carol did not know when Vida slipped away . 
The clock's bell , at half past five , aroused her . 
I must get hold of myself before Will comes . 
I hope he never knows what a fool his wife is . 
Frozen , sneering , horrible hearts . 
Like a very small , very lonely girl she trudged up stairs , slow step by step , her feet dragging , her hand on the rail . 
It was not her husband to whom she wanted to run for protection it was her father , her smiling understanding father , dead these twelve years . 
I mean if they ever do , you mustn't let it bother you . 
Criticize you ? Lord , I should say not . 
They all keep telling me you're the swellest girl they ever saw . 
Well , I've just fancied The merchants probably think I'm too fussy about shopping . 
I'm afraid I bore Mr. Dashaway and Mr. Howland and Mr. Ludelmeyer . 
I can tell you how that is . 
I didn't want to speak of it but since you've brought it up Chet Dashaway probably resents the fact that you got this new furniture down in the Cities instead of here . 
I didn't want to raise any objection at the time but After all , I make my money here and they naturally expect me to spend it here . 
If Mr. Dashaway will kindly tell me how any civilized person can furnish a room out of the mortuary pieces that he calls She remembered . 
She said meekly , But I understand . 
And Howland and Ludelmeyer Oh , you've probably handed 'em a few roasts for the bum stocks they carry , when you just meant to jolly 'em . 
Everybody's free here to do what he wants to . 
He said it with a flourish , and Carol perceived that he believed it . 
She turned her breath of fury into a yawn . 
Gould every last time , and the whole tribe of 'em the same way . 
I don't mean cut them out entirely . 
Course Jenson is tricky give you short weight and Ludelmeyer is a shiftless old Dutch hog . 
But same time , I mean let's keep the trade in the family whenever it is convenient , see how I mean ? I see . 
Well , guess it's about time to turn in . 
Till he bawled , Aren't you ever coming up to bed ? she sat unmoving . 
CHAPTER IX I SHE had tripped into the meadow to teach the lambs a pretty educational dance and found that the lambs were wolves . 
There was no way out between their pressing gray shoulders . 
She was surrounded by fangs and sneering eyes . 
She could not go on enduring the hidden derision . 
She wanted to hide in the generous indifference of cities . 
She practised saying to Kennicott , Think perhaps I'll run down to St . 
Paul for a few days . 
But she could not trust herself to say it carelessly could not abide his certain questioning . 
Reform the town ? All she wanted was to be tolerated ! She could not look directly at people . 
She flushed and winced before citizens who a week ago had been amusing objects of study , and in their good mornings she heard a cruel sniggering . 
She encountered Juanita Haydock at Ole Jenson's grocery . 
She besought , Oh , how do you do ! Heavens , what beautiful celery that is ! Yes , doesn't it look fresh . 
Harry simply has to have his celery on Sunday , drat the man ! Carol hastened out of the shop exulting , She didn't make fun of me . 
Did she ? In a week she had recovered from consciousness of insecurity , of shame and whispering notoriety , but she kept her habit of avoiding people . 
She walked the streets with her head down . 
When she spied Mrs. McGanum or Mrs. Dyer ahead she crossed over with an elaborate pretense of looking at a billboard . 
Always she was acting , for the benefit of every one she saw and for the benefit of the ambushed leering eyes which she did not see . 
She perceived that Vida Sherwin had told the truth . 
Whether she entered a store , or swept the back porch , or stood at the bay window in the living room , the village peeped at her . 
Once she had swung along the street triumphant in making a home . 
Now she glanced at each house , and felt , when she was safely home , that she had won past a thousand enemies armed with ridicule . 
She told herself that her sensitiveness was preposterous , but daily she was thrown into panic . 
She saw curtains slide back into innocent smoothness . 
Old women who had been entering their houses slipped out again to stare at her in the wintry quiet she could hear them tiptoeing on their porches . 
She admitted that she was taking herself too seriously that villagers gape at every one . 
She became placid , and thought well of her philosophy . 
But next morning she had a shock of shame as she entered Ludelmeyer's The grocer , his clerk , and neurotic Mrs. Dave Dyer had been giggling about something . 
They halted , looked embarrassed , babbled about onions . 
That evening when Kennicott took her to call on the crochety Lyman Casses , their hosts seemed flustered at their arrival . 
Kennicott jovially hooted , What makes you so hang dog , Lym ? The Casses tittered feebly . 
Except Dave Dyer , Sam Clark , and Raymie Wutherspoon , there were no merchants of whose welcome Carol was certain . 
She knew that she read mockery into greetings but she could not control her suspicion , could not rise from her psychic collapse . 
She alternately raged and flinched at the superiority of the merchants . 
They did not know that they were being rude , but they meant to have it understood that they were prosperous and not scared of no doctor's wife . 
They often said , One man's as good as another and a darn sight better . 
This motto , however , they did not commend to farmer customers who had had crop failures . 
The Yankee merchants were crabbed and Ole Jenson , Ludelmeyer , and Gus Dahl , from the Old Country , wished to be taken for Yankees . 
It was good form for the customers to fight back . 
Juanita Haydock cheerfully jabbered , You have it there by twelve or I'll snatch that fresh delivery boy bald headed . 
But Carol had never been able to play the game of friendly rudeness and now she was certain that she never would learn it . 
She formed the cowardly habit of going to Axel Egge's . 
Axel was not respectable and rude . 
He was still a foreigner , and he expected to remain one . 
His manner was heavy and uninterrogative . 
His establishment was more fantastic than any cross roads store . 
No one save Axel himself could find anything . 
The place was crowded with Scandinavian farmwives , standing aloof in shawls and ancient fawn colored leg o' mutton jackets , awaiting the return of their lords . 
They spoke Norwegian or Swedish , and looked at Carol uncomprehendingly . 
They were a relief to her they were not whispering that she was a poseur . 
But what she told herself was that Axel Egge's was so picturesque and romantic . 
It was in the matter of clothes that she was most self conscious . 
It was a smart suit with lines unfamiliar to the dragging yellow and pink frocks of the town . 
Carol could not endure it . 
She drew her fur coat over the suit and hastily fastened the buttons , while the boys snickered . 
II No group angered her quite so much as these staring young roues . 
She had tried to convince herself that the village , with its fresh air , its lakes for fishing and swimming , was healthier than the artificial city . 
She heard them smacking moist lips over every love scene at the Rosebud Movie Palace . 
She had taken this for granted . 
She had studied the boys pityingly , but impersonally . 
It had not occurred to her that they might touch her . 
Now she was aware that they knew all about her that they were waiting for some affectation over which they could guffaw . 
No schoolgirl passed their observation posts more flushingly than did Mrs. Dr . 
In shame she knew that they glanced appraisingly at her snowy overshoes , speculating about her legs . 
Theirs were not young eyes there was no youth in all the town , she agonized . 
They were born old , grim and old and spying and censorious . 
She cried again that their youth was senile and cruel on the day when she overheard Cy Bogart and Earl Haydock . 
Cyrus N. Bogart , son of the righteous widow who lived across the alley , was at this time a boy of fourteen or fifteen . 
Carol had already seen quite enough of Cy Bogart . 
On her first evening in Gopher Prairie Cy had appeared at the head of a charivari , banging immensely upon a discarded automobile fender . 
His companions were yelping in imitation of coyotes . 
Kennicott had felt rather complimented had gone out and distributed a dollar . 
But Cy was a capitalist in charivaris . 
He returned with an entirely new group , and this time there were three automobile fenders and a carnival rattle . 
When Kennicott again interrupted his shaving , Cy piped , Naw , you got to give us two dollars , and he got it . 
A week later Cy rigged a tic tac to a window of the living room , and the tattoo out of the darkness frightened Carol into screaming . 
Carol was afraid of him . 
Far from protesting when he set his mongrel on a kitten , she worked hard at not seeing him . 
The Kennicott garage was a shed littered with paint cans , tools , a lawn mower , and ancient wisps of hay . 
Above it was a loft which Cy Bogart and Earl Haydock , young brother of Harry , used as a den , for smoking , hiding from whippings , and planning secret societies . 
They climbed to it by a ladder on the alley side of the shed . 
This morning of late January , two or three weeks after Vida's revelations , Carol had gone into the stable garage to find a hammer . 
She heard voices in the loft above her Ah gee , lez oh , lez go down the lake and swipe some mushrats out of somebody's traps , Cy was yawning . 
And get our ears beat off ! grumbled Earl Haydock . 
Gosh , these cigarettes are dandy . 
'Member when we were just kids , and used to smoke corn silk and hayseed ? Yup . 
Say Earl , ma says if you chew tobacco you get consumption . 
Aw rats , your old lady is a crank . 
But she says she knows a fella that did . 
This was news to the girl from the Cities . 
Say , how is she ? continued Earl . 
Huh ? How's who ? You know who I mean , smarty . 
A tussle , a thumping of loose boards , silence , weary narration from Cy Mrs. Kennicott ? Oh , she's all right , I guess . 
Relief to Carol , below . 
She gimme a hunk o' cake , one time . 
But Ma says she's stuck up as hell . 
Ma's always talking about her . 
Ma says if Mrs. Kennicott thought as much about the doc as she does about her clothes , the doc wouldn't look so peaked . 
Juanita's always talking about her , too , from Earl . 
She says Mrs. Kennicott thinks she knows it all . 
Juanita says she has to laugh till she almost busts every time she sees Mrs. Kennicott peerading along the street with that take a look I'm a swell skirt' way she's got . 
But gosh , I don't pay no attention to Juanita . 
She's meaner 'n a crab . 
They're all laughing up their sleeves at her . 
Jeeze , you'd 'a' died laughing . 
She was there all alone , and she must 'a' spent five minutes getting a picture straight . 
Jever notice these low cut dresses and these thin shimmy shirts she wears ? I had a good squint at 'em when they were out on the line with the wash . 
And some ankles she's got , heh ? Then Carol fled . 
In her innocence she had not known that the whole town could discuss even her garments , her body . 
She felt that she was being dragged naked down Main Street . 
The moment it was dusk she pulled down the window shades all the shades , flush with the sill , but beyond them she felt moist fleering eyes . 
III She remembered , and tried to forget , and remembered more sharply the vulgar detail of her husband's having observed the ancient customs of the land by chewing tobacco . 
She would have preferred a prettier vice gambling or a mistress . 
For these she might have found a luxury of forgiveness . 
She could not remember any fascinatingly wicked hero of fiction who chewed tobacco . 
She asserted that it proved him to be a man of the bold free West . 
She tried to align him with the hairy chested heroes of the motion pictures . 
She curled on the couch a pallid softness in the twilight , and fought herself , and lost the battle . 
Spitting did not identify him with rangers riding the buttes it merely bound him to Gopher Prairie to Nat Hicks the tailor and Bert Tybee the bartender . 
But he gave it up for me . 
Oh , what does it matter ! We're all filthy in some things . 
I think of myself as so superior , but I do eat and digest , I do wash my dirty paws and scratch . 
I'm not a cool slim goddess on a column . 
There aren't any ! He gave it up for me . 
He stands by me , believing that every one loves me . 
He's the Rock of Ages in a storm of meanness that's driving me mad . 
it will drive me mad . 
All evening she sang Scotch ballads to Kennicott , and when she noticed that he was chewing an unlighted cigar she smiled maternally at his secret . 
, Was it all a horrible mistake , my marrying him ? She quieted the doubt without answering it . 
IV Kennicott had taken her north to Lac qui Meurt , in the Big Woods . 
It was the entrance to a Chippewa Indian reservation , a sandy settlement among Norway pines on the shore of a huge snow glaring lake . 
She had her first sight of his mother , except the glimpse at the wedding . 
Mrs. Kennicott had a hushed and delicate breeding which dignified her woodeny over scrubbed cottage with its worn hard cushions in heavy rockers . 
She had never lost the child's miraculous power of wonder . 
She asked questions about books and cities . 
She murmured Will is a dear hard working boy but he's inclined to be too serious , and you've taught him how to play . 
Last night I heard you both laughing about the old Indian basket seller , and I just lay in bed and enjoyed your happiness . 
Carol forgot her misery hunting in this solidarity of family life . 
She could depend upon them she was not battling alone . 
Watching Mrs. Kennicott flit about the kitchen she was better able to translate Kennicott himself . 
He was matter of fact , yes , and incurably mature . 
He didn't really play he let Carol play with him . 
But he had his mother's genius for trusting , her disdain for prying , her sure integrity . 
A bright hard winter day , the wind shrill , black and silver clouds booming across the sky , everything in panicky motion during the brief light . 
They struggled against the surf of wind , through deep snow . 
Jackson Elder cried , Hey , folks ! How's tricks up North ? Mrs. McGanum waved to them from her porch . 
They're glad to see us . 
Why ? V Vida Sherwin ran in after school a dozen times . 
She was tactful , torrentially anecdotal . 
She had scuttled about town and plucked compliments Mrs. Dr . 
But Carol could not yet take her in . 
She resented this outsider's knowledge of her shame . 
Vida was not too long tolerant . 
She hinted , You're a great brooder , child . 
The town's quit criticizing you , almost entirely . 
Come with me to the Thanatopsis Club . 
They have some of the BEST papers , and current events discussions SO interesting . 
In Vida's demands Carol felt a compulsion , but she was too listless to obey . 
It was Bea Sorenson who was really her confidante . 
However charitable toward the Lower Classes she may have thought herself , Carol had been reared to assume that servants belong to a distinct and inferior species . 
But she discovered that Bea was extraordinarily like girls she had loved in college , and as a companion altogether superior to the young matrons of the Jolly Seventeen . 
Daily they became more frankly two girls playing at housework . 
They made out the day's menus together . 
VI Through her weeks of cowering there was no change in her surface life . 
No one save Vida was aware of her agonizing . 
On her most despairing days she chatted to women on the street , in stores . 
Kennicott had taken a patient to Rochester for an operation . 
He would be away for two or three days . 
She had not minded she would loosen the matrimonial tension and be a fanciful girl for a time . 
But now that he was gone the house was listeningly empty . 
Bea was out this afternoon presumably drinking coffee and talking about fellows with her cousin Tina . 
It was the day for the monthly supper and evening bridge of the Jolly Seventeen , but Carol dared not go . 
CHAPTER X THE house was haunted , long before evening . 
Shadows slipped down the walls and waited behind every chair . 
Did that door move ? No. She wouldn't go to the Jolly Seventeen . 
She hadn't energy enough to caper before them , to smile blandly at Juanita's rudeness . 
But she did want a party . 
Now ! If some one would come in this afternoon , some one who liked her Vida or Mrs. Sam Clark or old Mrs. Champ Perry or gentle Mrs. Dr . 
Or Guy Pollock ! She'd telephone No. That wouldn't be it . 
They must come of themselves . 
Why not ? She'd have tea ready , anyway . 
And it would be just as much fun , even if it was so babyish , to have tea by herself and pretend that she was entertaining clever men . 
It would ! She turned the shining thought into action . 
She bustled to the kitchen , stoked the wood range , sang Schumann while she boiled the kettle , warmed up raisin cookies on a newspaper spread on the rack in the oven . 
She scampered up stairs to bring down her filmiest tea cloth . 
She arranged a silver tray . 
She moved the tray back and forth and regarded the effect . 
She busily unfolded the sewing table set it in the bay window , patted the tea cloth to smoothness , moved the tray . 
Some time I'll have a mahogany tea table , she said happily . 
She had brought in two cups , two plates . 
For herself , a straight chair , but for the guest the big wing chair , which she pantingly tugged to the table . 
She had finished all the preparations she could think of . 
She listened for the door bell , the telephone . 
Surely Vida Sherwin would hear the summons . 
She glanced through the bay window . 
Snow was sifting over the ridge of the Howland house like sprays of water from a hose . 
The wide yards across the street were gray with moving eddies . 
The roadway was gashed with ruts of ice . 
She looked at the extra cup and plate . 
She looked at the wing chair . 
The tea was cold in the pot . 
With wearily dipping fingertip she tested it . 
She couldn't wait any longer . 
The cup across from her was icily clean , glisteningly empty . 
She poured her own cup of tea . 
She sat and stared at it . 
What was it she was going to do now ? Oh yes how idiotic take a lump of sugar . 
She didn't want the beastly tea . 
She was on the couch , sobbing . 
II She was thinking more sharply than she had for weeks . 
She reverted to her resolution to change the town awaken it , prod it , reform it . 
What if they were wolves instead of lambs ? They'd eat her all the sooner if she was meek to them . 
She would have to make them take hers . 
She was not a Vincent de Paul , to govern and mold a people . 
If she could not , as she desired , do a great thing nobly and with laughter , yet she need not be con tent with village nothingness . 
She would plant one seed in the blank wall . 
Sam Clark was no more loyal than girl librarians she knew in St . 
Paul , the people she had met in Chicago . 
Which seed it was did not matter . 
All knowledge and freedom were one . 
But she had delayed so long in finding that seed . 
Could she do something with this Thanatopsis Club ? Or should she make her house so charming that it would be an influence ? She'd make Kennicott like poetry . 
that the spectral presences slipped away . 
Their supper was the feast of two girls . 
Say , ve have a svell time , dis afternoon . 
She wished that Pollock would come calling . 
If a girl really kissed him , he'd creep out of his den and be human . 
If Will were as literate as Guy , or Guy were as executive as Will , I think I could endure even Gopher Prairie . 
It's so hard to mother Will . 
I could be maternal with Guy . 
Is that what I want , something to mother , a man or a baby or a town ? I WILL have a baby . 
But to have him isolated here all his receptive years And so to bed . 
Have I found my real level in Bea and kitchen gossip ? Oh , I do miss you , Will . 
But it will be pleasant to turn over in bed as often as I want to , without worrying about waking you up . 
Am I really this settled thing called a married woman' ? I feel so unmarried tonight . 
III A black February day . 
Clouds hewn of ponderous timber weighing down on the earth an irresolute dropping of snow specks upon the trampled wastes . 
Gloom but no veiling of angularity . 
The lines of roofs and sidewalks sharp and inescapable . 
The second day of Kennicott's absence . 
She fled from the creepy house for a walk . 
It was thirty below zero too cold to exhilarate her . 
In the spaces between houses the wind caught her . 
She looked down on Gopher Prairie . 
The snow , stretching without break from streets to devouring prairie beyond , wiped out the town's pretense of being a shelter . 
The houses were black specks on a white sheet . 
Her heart shivered with that still loneliness as her body shivered with the wind . 
The zest of winter was gone . 
Three months more , till May , the cold might drag on , with the snow ever filthier , the weakened body less resistent . 
She circled the outskirts of the town and viewed the slum of Swede Hollow . 
Wherever as many as three houses are gathered there will be a slum of at least one house . 
But now that the summer mask of leaves and grass was gone , Carol discovered misery and dead hope . 
In a shack of thin boards covered with tar paper she saw the washerwoman , Mrs. Steinhof , working in gray steam . 
Outside , her six year old boy chopped wood . 
He had a torn jacket , muffler of a blue like skimmed milk . 
His hands were covered with red mittens through which protruded his chapped raw knuckles . 
He halted to blow on them , to cry disinterestedly . 
A family of recently arrived Finns were camped in an abandoned stable . 
A man of eighty was picking up lumps of coal along the railroad . 
She did not know what to do about it . 
She felt that these independent citizens , who had been taught that they belonged to a democracy , would resent her trying to play Lady Bountiful . 
The jolly tombstone yard , where a utilitarian sculptor in a red calfskin overcoat whistled as he hammered the shiniest of granite headstones . 
Jackson Elder's small planing mill , with the smell of fresh pine shavings and the burr of circular saws . 
Most important , the Gopher Prairie Flour and Milling Company , Lyman , Cass president . 
Its windows were blanketed with flour dust , but it was the most stirring spot in town . 
The clatter was a relief to Carol after months of smug houses . 
She wished that she could work in the mill that she did not belong to the caste of professional man's wife . 
She started for home , through the small slum . 
Before a tar paper shack , at a gateless gate , a man in rough brown dogskin coat and black plush cap with lappets was watching her . 
His square face was confident , his foxy mustache was picaresque . 
He stood erect , his hands in his side pockets , his pipe puffing slowly . 
He was forty five or six , perhaps . 
How do , Mrs. Kennicott , he drawled . 
She recalled him the town handyman , who had repaired their furnace at the beginning of winter . 
Oh , how do you do , she fluttered . 
The Red Swede' they call me . 
Remember ? Always thought I'd kind of like to say howdy to you again . 
Ye yes I've been exploring the outskirts of town . 
No sewage , no street cleaning , and the Lutheran minister and the priest represent the arts and sciences . 
Well , thunder , we submerged tenth down here in Swede Hollow are no worse off than you folks . 
Thank God , we don't have to go and purr at Juanity Haydock at the Jolly Old Seventeen . 
The Carol who regarded herself as completely adaptable was uncomfortable at being chosen as comrade by a pipe reeking odd job man . 
Probably he was one of her husband's patients . 
But she must keep her dignity . 
Yes , even the Jolly Seventeen isn't always so exciting . 
It's very cold again today , isn't it . 
Well Bjornstam was not respectfully valedictory . 
He showed no signs of pulling a forelock . 
His eyebrows moved as though they had a life of their own . 
With a subgrin he went on Maybe I hadn't ought to talk about Mrs. Haydock and her Solemcholy Seventeen in that fresh way . 
I suppose I'd be tickled to death if I was invited to sit in with that gang . 
I'm what they call a pariah , I guess . 
I'm the town badman , Mrs. Kennicott town atheist , and I suppose I must be an anarchist , too . 
Everybody who doesn't love the bankers and the Grand Old Republican Party is an anarchist . 
Carol had unconsciously slipped from her attitude of departure into an attitude of listening , her face full toward him , her muff lowered . 
She fumbled Yes , I suppose so . 
Her own grudges came in a flood . 
I don't see why you shouldn't criticize the Jolly Seventeen if you want to . 
Oh yes , they are ! The dollar sign has chased the crucifix clean off the map . 
But then , I've got no kick . 
I do what I please , and I suppose I ought to let them do the same . 
What do you mean by saying you're a pariah ? I'm poor , and yet I don't decently envy the rich . 
You I fancy you read a good deal . 
In a hit or a miss way . 
I'll tell you I'm a lone wolf . 
I trade horses , and saw wood , and work in lumber camps I'm a first rate swamper . 
Always wished I could go to college . 
Though I s'pose I'd find it pretty slow , and they'd probably kick me out . 
You really are a curious person , Mr. Bjornstam . 
Half Yank and half Swede . 
Usually known as that damn lazy big mouthed calamity howler that ain't satisfied with the way we run things . 
No , I ain't curious whatever you mean by that ! I'm just a bookworm . 
Probably too much reading for the amount of digestion I've got . 
I'm going to get in half baked' first , and beat you to it , because it's dead sure to be handed to a radical that wears jeans ! They grinned together . 
She demanded You say that the Jolly Seventeen is stupid . 
What makes you think so ? Oh , trust us borers into the foundation to know about your leisure class . 
He's a socialist , the foreman . 
Indeed no , I sha'n't tell him . 
This foreman and I have some great set to's . 
He's a regular old line party member . 
Expects to reform everything from deforestration to nosebleed by saying phrases like surplus value . 
Like reading the prayer book . 
But same time , he's a Plato J. Aristotle compared with people like Ezry Stowbody or Professor Mott or Julius Flickerbaugh . 
It's interesting to hear about him . 
He dug his toe into a drift , like a schoolboy . 
You mean I talk too much . 
Well , I do , when I get hold of somebody like you . 
You probably want to run along and keep your nose from freezing . 
Yes , I must go , I suppose . 
But tell me Why did you leave Miss Sherwin , of the high school , out of your list of the town intelligentsia ? I guess maybe she does belong in it . 
From all I can hear she's in everything and behind everything that looks like a reform lot more than most folks realize . 
But way I figure it out You see , I'm not interested in these dinky reforms . 
Miss Sherwin's trying to repair the holes in this barnacle covered ship of a town by keeping busy bailing out the water . 
Yes that that would be better . 
But I must run home . 
My poor nose is nearly frozen . 
Say , you better come in and get warm , and see what an old bach's shack is like . 
She looked doubtfully at him , at the low shanty , the yard that was littered with cord wood , moldy planks , a hoopless wash tub . 
She was disquieted , but Bjornstam did not give her the opportunity to be delicate . 
He flung out his hand in a welcoming gesture which assumed that she was her own counselor , that she was not a Respectable Married Woman but fully a human being . 
She remained for one hour , and never had she known a more considerate host than the Red Swede . 
There was but one picture a magazine color plate of a steep roofed village in the Harz Mountains which suggested kobolds and maidens with golden hair . 
Bjornstam did not fuss over her . 
He suggested , Might throw open your coat and put your feet up on the box in front of the stove . 
, but mostly it's because I mean something . 
I meet old Ezra Stowbody on the street . 
HE knows my name , all rightee . 
Well , whatever your name is , he says , I understand you have a gasoline saw . 
I want you to come around and saw up four cords of maple for me , he says . 
So you like my looks , eh ? I says , kind of innocent . 
What difference does that make ? Want you to saw that wood before Saturday , he says , real sharp . 
How do you know I like YOUR looks ? Maybe he didn't look sore ! Nope , I says , thinking it all over , I don't like your application for a loan . 
Take it to another bank , only there ain't any , I says , and I walks off on him . 
Probably I was surly and foolish . 
She faced Juanita Haydock , cocked her head at Maud Dyer's brief nod , and came home to Bea radiant . 
She telephoned Vida Sherwin to run over this evening . 
She lustily played Tschaikowsky the virile chords an echo of the red laughing philosopher of the tar paper shack . 
IV Kennicott had returned at midnight . 
At breakfast he said four several times that he had missed her every moment . 
Don't be so dog gone proud , staying by yourselves . 
Mother was saying t'other day that a sight of you was better 'n a dose of medicine . 
In the Bon Ton Store she found Guy Pollock tentatively buying a modest gray scarf . 
We haven't seen you for so long , she said . 
In a manner of more than sacerdotal reverence he unlaced her boots , tucked her skirt about her ankles , slid on the slippers . 
You're a good salesman , she said . 
I'm not a salesman at all ! I just like elegant things . 
All this is so inartistic . 
But sometimes , Raymie sighed , there is a pair of dainty little shoes like these , and I set them aside for some one who will appreciate . 
When I saw these I said right away , Wouldn't it be nice if they fitted Mrs. Kennicott , and I meant to speak to you first chance I had . 
I haven't forgotten our jolly talks at Mrs. Gurrey's ! That evening Guy Pollock came in and , though Kennicott instantly impressed him into a cribbage game , Carol was happy again . 
Twice he suggested that they call on neighbors once he was in the country . 
Now don't ask questions ! Come and sit down by the table . 
There , are you comfy ? Lean back and forget you're a practical man , and listen to me . 
It may be that she had been influenced by the managerial Vida Sherwin certainly she sounded as though she was selling culture . 
But she dropped it when she sat on the couch , her chin in her hands , a volume of Yeats on her knees , and read aloud . 
Instantly she was released from the homely comfort of a prairie town . 
She remembered that he was the sort of person who chewed tobacco . 
She glared , while he uneasily petitioned , That's great stuff . 
Study it in college ? I like poetry fine James Whitcomb Riley and some of Longfellow this Hiawatha . 
Gosh , I wish I could appreciate that highbrow art stuff . 
But I guess I'm too old a dog to learn new tricks . 
With pity for his bewilderment , and a certain desire to giggle , she consoled him , Then let's try some Tennyson . 
You've read him ? Tennyson ? You bet . 
Well Shall we try The Idylls of the King ? They're so full of color . 
But he hastened to shelter himself behind a cigar . 
She was not transported to Camelot . 
She could not quite give up . 
She read Kipling , with a great deal of emphasis There's a REGIMENT a COMING down the GRAND Trunk ROAD . 
He tapped his foot to the rhythm he looked normal and reassured . 
But when he complimented her , That was fine . 
But the fact is that at the motion pictures she discovered herself laughing as heartily as Kennicott at the humor of an actor who stuffed spaghetti down a woman's evening frock . 
For a second she loathed her laughter mourned for the day when on her hill by the Mississippi she had walked the battlements with queens . 
But the celebrated cinema jester's conceit of dropping toads into a soup plate flung her into unwilling tittering , and the afterglow faded , the dead queens fled through darkness . 
VI She went to the Jolly Seventeen's afternoon bridge . 
She had learned the elements of the game from the Sam Clarks . 
She played quietly and reasonably badly . 
She had no opinions on anything more polemic than woolen union suits , a topic on which Mrs. Howland discoursed for five minutes . 
She smiled frequently , and was the complete canary bird in her manner of thanking the hostess , Mrs. Dave Dyer . 
Her only anxious period was during the conference on husbands . 
The young matrons discussed the intimacies of domesticity with a frankness and a minuteness which dismayed Carol . 
Juanita Haydock communicated Harry's method of shaving , and his interest in deer shooting . 
Mrs. Gougerling reported fully , and with some irritation , her husband's inappreciation of liver and bacon . 
She was embarrassed rather than resentful . 
She talked of Kennicott's overshoes and medical ideals till they were thoroughly bored . 
They regarded her as agreeable but green . 
Till the end she labored to satisfy the inquisition . 
She bubbled at Juanita , the president of the club , that she wanted to entertain them . 
Fine ! We need a hostess for the seventeenth of March . 
Wouldn't it be awfully original if you made it a St . 
Patrick's Day bridge ! I'll be tickled to death to help you with it . 
I'm glad you've learned to play bridge . 
At first I didn't hardly know if you were going to like Gopher Prairie . 
If folks will just take us as we are , I think we're a pretty good bunch ! I'm sure of it . 
Thank you so much for the idea about having a St . 
I always think the Jolly Seventeen are so good at original ideas . 
If you knew these other towns Wakamin and Joralemon and all , you'd find out and realize that G. P. is the liveliest , smartest town in the state . 
Did you know that Percy Bresnahan , the famous auto manufacturer , came from here and Yes , I think that a St . 
Patrick's Day party would be awfully cunning and original , and yet not too queer or freaky or anything . 
CHAPTER XI I SHE had often been invited to the weekly meetings of the Thanatopsis , the women's study club , but she had put it off . 
The Thanatopsis was , Vida Sherwin promised , such a cozy group , and yet it puts you in touch with all the intellectual thoughts that are going on everywhere . 
Mrs. Dawson is going to be leader and the poor soul is frightened to death . 
She wanted me to get you to come . 
She says she's sure you will brighten up the meeting with your knowledge of books and writings . 
So shoo ! Put on your coat ! English poetry ? Really ? I'd love to go . 
I didn't realize you were reading poetry . 
Oh , we're not so slow ! Mrs. Luke Dawson , wife of the richest man in town , gaped at them piteously when they appeared . 
Her expensive frock of beaver colored satin with rows , plasters , and pendants of solemn brown beads was intended for a woman twice her size . 
She creaked , O Mrs. Kennicott , I'm in such a fix . 
Not all of them ? W why yes . 
We're learning all of European Literature this year . 
The club gets such a nice magazine , Culture Hints , and we follow its programs . 
Last year our subject was Men and Women of the Bible , and next year we'll probably take up Furnishings and China . 
My , it does make a body hustle to keep up with all these new culture subjects , but it is improving . 
So will you help us with the discussion today ? On her way over Carol had decided to use the Thanatopsis as the tool with which to liberalize the town . 
She had immediately conceived enormous enthusiasm she had chanted , These are the real people . 
When the housewives , who bear the burdens , are interested in poetry , it means something . 
They had greeted Carol affectionately , and she tried to be a daughter to them . 
It was impossible to sit on it without folding the hands and listening piously . 
She wanted to kick the chair and run . 
It would make a magnificent clatter . 
She saw that Vida Sherwin was watching her . 
She pinched her wrist , as though she were a noisy child in church , and when she was decent and cramped again , she listened . 
Mrs. Ole Jenson said that Shakespeare was born in and died . 
He lived in London , England , and in Stratford on Avon , which many American tourists loved to visit , a lovely town with many curios and old houses well worth examination . 
Many people believed that Shakespeare was the greatest play wright who ever lived , also a fine poet . 
Mrs. Jenson was sure that she , for one , would love to be like Portia . 
Burns had to work hard and was sometimes led by evil companionship into low habits . 
Mrs. George Edwin Mott gave ten minutes to Tennyson and Browning . 
The other poets worthy of consideration were Coleridge , Wordsworth Shelley , Gray , Mrs. Hemans , and Kipling . 
Miss Ella Stowbody obliged with a recital of The Recessional and extracts from Lalla Rookh . 
By request , she gave An Old Sweetheart of Mine as encore . 
Gopher Prairie had finished the poets . 
It was ready for the next week's labor English Fiction and Essays . 
Carol had warned herself not to be so beastly supercilious . 
She had insisted that in the belated quest of these work stained women was an aspiration which ought to stir her tears . 
But they're so self satisfied . 
They think they're doing Burns a favor . 
They don't believe they have a belated quest . 
They're sure that they have culture salted and hung up . 
It was out of this stupor of doubt that Mrs. Dawson's summons roused her . 
She was in a panic . 
How could she speak without hurting them ? Mrs. Champ Perry leaned over to stroke her hand and whisper , You look tired , dearie . 
Don't you talk unless you want to . 
Especially actual quotations even though their lives are so interesting and , as Mrs. Warren said , so morally instructive . 
And perhaps there are several poets not mentioned today whom it might be worth while considering Keats , for instance , and Matthew Arnold and Rossetti and Swinburne . 
She captured her by innocently continuing Unless perhaps Swinburne tends to be , uh , more outspoken than you , than we really like . 
What do you think , Mrs. Warren ? The pastor's wife decided , Why , you've caught my very thoughts , Mrs. Kennicott . 
he said that though many so called intellectual people posed and pretended to find beauty in Swinburne , there can never be genuine beauty without the message from the heart . 
The membership committee retired to the sitting room for three minutes and elected her a member . 
And she stopped being patronizing . 
She wanted to be one of them . 
They were so loyal and kind . 
It was they who would carry out her aspiration . 
Mrs. Nat Hicks timidly wished that the young people could have free dances there the lodge dances were so exclusive . 
That was it ! Carol hurried home . 
She had not realized that Gopher Prairie was a city . 
From Kennicott she discovered that it was legally organized with a mayor and city council and wards . 
She was delighted by the simplicity of voting one's self a metropolis . 
Why not ? She was a proud and patriotic citizen , all evening . 
II She examined the city hall , next morning . 
She had remembered it only as a bleak inconspicuousness . 
She found it a liver colored frame coop half a block from Main Street . 
The front was an unrelieved wall of clapboards and dirty windows . 
It had an unobstructed view of a vacant lot and Nat Hicks's tailor shop . 
It was larger than the carpenter shop beside it , but not so well built . 
She walked into the corridor . 
At the end was an abortive stage . 
The room was large enough for the community dances which Mrs. Nat Hicks advocated . 
But Carol was after something bigger than dances . 
In the afternoon she scampered to the public library . 
The library was open three afternoons and four evenings a week . 
It was housed in an old dwelling , sufficient but unattractive . 
Carol caught herself picturing pleasanter reading rooms , chairs for children , an art collection , a librarian young enough to experiment . 
She berated herself , Stop this fever of reforming everything ! I WILL be satisfied with the library ! The city hall is enough for a beginning . 
And it's really an excellent library . 
It's it isn't so bad . 
Miss Villets stared at her , and Carol purred , I was so sorry not to see you at the Thanatopsis yesterday . 
Vida said you might come . 
You went to the Thanatopsis . 
Did you enjoy it ? So much . 
Such good papers on the poets . 
She was profusely escorted to a room like a grandmother's attic , where she discovered periodicals devoted to house decoration and town planning , with a six year file of the National Geographic . 
Miss Villets blessedly left her alone . 
Humming , fluttering pages with delighted fingers , Carol sat cross legged on the floor , the magazines in heaps about her . 
She found pictures of New England streets the dignity of Falmouth , the charm of Concord , Stockbridge and Farmington and Hillhouse Avenue . 
The fairy book suburb of Forest Hills on Long Island . 
Devonshire cottages and Essex manors and a Yorkshire High Street and Port Sunlight . 
The Arab village of Djeddah an intricately chased jewel box . 
She saw in Gopher Prairie a Georgian city hall warm brick walls with white shutters , a fanlight , a wide hall and curving stair . 
She saw it the common home and inspiration not only of the town but of the country about . 
, public library , a collection of excellent prints , rest room and model kitchen for farmwives , theater , lecture room , free community ballroom , farm bureau , gymnasium . 
All this the Thanatopsis Club was to accomplish with no difficulty whatever , since its several husbands were the controllers of business and politics . 
She was proud of herself for this practical view . 
She had taken only half an hour to change a wire fenced potato plot into a walled rose garden . 
She hurried out to apprize Mrs. Leonard Warren , as president of the Thanatopsis , of the miracle which had been worked . 
I have no doubt that such villages will be found on the prairie some day . 
After all , it's the churches , isn't it , that are the real heart of the community . 
As you may possibly know , my husband is prominent in Congregational circles all through the state for his advocacy of church union . 
He hopes to see all the evangelical denominations joined in one strong body , opposing Catholicism and Christian Science , and properly guiding all movements that make for morality and prohibition . 
And that would be the proper center for all educational and pleasurable activities , instead of letting them fall into the hands of the politicians . 
I don't suppose it will take more than thirty or forty years for the churches to get together ? Carol said innocently . 
Hardly that long even things are moving so rapidly . 
So it would be a mistake to make any other plans . 
Carol did not recover her zeal till two days after , when she tried Mrs. George Edwin Mott , wife of the superintendent of schools . 
Except for one thing First and foremost , we must have a new schoolbuilding . 
Mr. Mott says they are terribly cramped . 
Carol went to view the old building . 
The grades and the high school were combined in a damp yellow brick structure with the narrow windows of an antiquated jail a hulk which expressed hatred and compulsory training . 
She conceded Mrs. Mott's demand so violently that for two days she dropped her own campaign . 
Then she built the school and city hall together , as the center of the reborn town . 
She ventured to the lead colored dwelling of Mrs. Dave Dyer . 
Behind the mask of winter stripped vines and a wide porch only a foot above the ground , the cottage was so impersonal that Carol could never visualize it . 
Nor could she remember anything that was inside it . 
But Mrs. Dyer was personal enough . 
Mrs. Dyer was superfeminine in the kimono in which she received Carol . 
Her skin was fine , pale , soft , suggesting a weak voluptuousness . 
At afternoon coffees she had been rude but now she addressed Carol as dear , and insisted on being called Maud . 
Carol did not quite know why she was uncomfortable in this talcum powder atmosphere , but she hastened to get into the fresh air of her plans . 
Dave had given verdict , What these mouthy youngsters that hang around the pool room need is universal military training . 
What she really wants is a big office for her dear bald headed Gawge to sit around and look important in . 
The snow was gone except for filthy woolly patches under trees , the thermometer leaped in a day from wind bitten chill to itchy warmth . 
But a week later , though the snow was everywhere in slushy heaps , the promise was unmistakable . 
By the invisible hints in air and sky and earth which had aroused her every year through ten thousand generations she knew that spring was coming . 
It was not a scorching , hard , dusty day like the treacherous intruder of a week before , but soaked with languor , softened with a milky light . 
Rivulets were hurrying in each alley a calling robin appeared by magic on the crab apple tree in the Howlands' yard . 
She trotted through the house , planning the spring cleaning with Bea . 
When she attended her second meeting of the Thanatopsis she said nothing about remaking the town . 
Not till she inspected the rest room did she again become a fanatic . 
She had often glanced at the store building which had been turned into a refuge in which farmwives could wait while their husbands transacted business . 
She had heard Vida Sherwin and Mrs. Warren caress the virtue of the Thanatopsis in establishing the rest room and in sharing with the city council the expense of maintaining it . 
But she had never entered it till this March day . 
She went in impulsively nodded at the matron , a plump worthy widow named Nodelquist , and at a couple of farm women who were meekly rocking . 
The rest room resembled a second hand store . 
The front window was darkened by torn net curtains and by a mound of geraniums and rubber plants . 
This is mere commercial accommodation . 
It ought to be the most charming room in town , to comfort women sick of prairie kitchens . 
Certainly it ought to have a clear window , so that they can see the metropolitan life go by . 
Some day I'm going to make a better rest room a club room . 
She poured out her plans . 
Mrs. Perry nodded and stroked Carol's hand , but at the end she sighed I wish I could agree with you , dearie . 
! But I'm afraid you're too tender hearted . 
When we wanted salt pork and gunpowder , we sent out a man on horseback , and probably he was shot dead by the Injuns before he got back . 
We ladies of course we were all farmers at first we didn't expect any rest room in those days . 
And when the town grew up we thought the new city hall was real fine . 
And I don't see any need for dance halls . 
Dancing isn't what it was , anyway . 
We used to dance modest , and we had just as much fun as all these young folks do now with their terrible Turkey Trots and hugging and all . 
And I certainly don't see any need of a farm bureau or this domestic science demonstration you talk about . 
That's enough monkeying with this scientific farming Champ says there's nothing to it anyway . 
Yet the next afternoon she was pouncing on Mrs. Lyman Cass , the hook nosed consort of the owner of the flour mill . 
Mrs. Cass's parlor belonged to the crammed Victorian school , as Mrs. Luke Dawson's belonged to the bare Victorian . 
It was furnished on two principles First , everything must resemble something else . 
The second principle of the crammed Victorian school was that every inch of the interior must be filled with useless objects . 
Mrs. Cass's first remark was , I must show you all my pretty things and art objects . 
She piped , after Carol's appeal I see . 
You think the New England villages and Colonial houses are so much more cunning than these Middlewestern towns . 
I'm glad you feel that way . 
You'll be interested to know I was born in Vermont . 
And don't you think we ought to try to make Gopher Prai My gracious no ! We can't afford it . 
Taxes are much too high as it is . 
We ought to retrench , and not let the city council spend another cent . 
Uh Don't you think that was a grand paper Mrs. Westlake read about Tolstoy ? I was so glad she pointed out how all his silly socialistic ideas failed . 
What Mrs. Cass said was what Kennicott said , that evening . 
Not in twenty years would the council propose or Gopher Prairie vote the funds for a new city hall . 
V Carol had avoided exposing her plans to Vida Sherwin . 
She was shy of the big sister manner Vida would either laugh at her or snatch the idea and change it to suit herself . 
But there was no other hope . 
When Vida came in to tea Carol sketched her Utopia . 
Vida was soothing but decisive My dear , you're all off . 
I would like to see it a real gardeny place to shut out the gales . 
But it can't be done . 
What could the clubwomen accomplish ? Their husbands are the most important men in town . 
They ARE the town ! But the town as a separate unit is not the husband of the Thanatopsis . 
But can't the men see the ugliness ? They don't think it's ugly . 
And how can you prove it ? Matter of taste . 
The shell ought not to be forced on the spirit . 
It can't be ! The bright shell has to grow out of the spirit , and express it . 
If we keep after the city council for another ten years they MAY vote the bonds for a new school . 
The secret trails that lead to scared pocket books ! Always , in everything ! And I don't have any of the fine melodrama of fiction the dictagraphs and speeches by torchlight . 
I'm merely blocked by stupidity . 
Oh , I know I'm a fool . 
I dream of Venice , and I live in Archangel and scold because the Northern seas aren't tender colored . 
But at least they sha'n't keep me from loving Venice , and sometime I'll run away All right . 
She flung out her hands in a gesture of renunciation . 
VI Early May wheat springing up in blades like grass corn and potatoes being planted the land humming . 
For two days there had been steady rain . 
Even in town the roads were a furrowed welter of mud , hideous to view and difficult to cross . 
Main Street was a black swamp from curb to curb on residence streets the grass parking beside the walks oozed gray water . 
It was prickly hot , yet the town was barren under the bleak sky . 
Softened neither by snow nor by waving boughs the houses squatted and scowled , revealed in their unkempt harshness . 
As she dragged homeward Carol looked with distaste at her clay loaded rubbers , the smeared hem of her skirt . 
She passed Lyman Cass's pinnacled , dark red , hulking house . 
She waded a streaky yellow pool . 
This morass was not her home , she insisted . 
Her home , and her beautiful town , existed in her mind . 
They had already been created . 
What she really had been questing was some one to share them with her . 
Vida would not Kennicott could not . 
Some one to share her refuge . 
Suddenly she was thinking of Guy Pollock . 
She needed a spirit as young and unreasonable as her own . 
And she would never find it . 
Youth would never come singing . 
Yet that same evening she had an idea which solved the rebuilding of Gopher Prairie . 
Within ten minutes she was jerking the old fashioned bell pull of Luke Dawson . 
Mrs. Dawson opened the door and peered doubtfully about the edge of it . 
Carol kissed her cheek , and frisked into the lugubrious sitting room . 
Well , well , you're a sight for sore eyes ! chuckled Mr. Dawson , dropping his newspaper , pushing his spectacles back on his forehead . 
You seem so excited , sighed Mrs. Dawson . 
I mean it ! Your children in the Cities are grown up and well to do . 
You don't want to die and leave your name unknown . 
Perhaps he'd create some entirely new form of architecture . 
Then tear down all these shambling buildings Mr. Dawson had decided that she really did mean it . 
Mama could always have a hired girl to do the work when we could find one . 
Besides what's the matter with the town ? Looks good to me . 
I've had people that have traveled all over the world tell me time and again that Gopher Prairie is the prettiest place in the Middlewest . 
Certainly good enough for Mama and me . 
Besides ! Mama and me are plan ning to go out to Pasadena and buy a bungalow and live there . 
VII She had met Miles Bjornstam on the street . 
He grunted , I never thought I'd be agreeing with Old Man Dawson , the penny pinching old land thief and a fine briber he is , too . 
But you got the wrong slant . 
You aren't one of the people yet . 
You want to do something for the town . 
I don't ! I want the town to do something for itself . 
We don't want old Dawson's money not if it's a gift , with a string . 
We'll take it away from him , because it belongs to us . 
You got to get more iron and cussedness into you . 
Come join us cheerful bums , and some day when we educate ourselves and quit being bums we'll take things and run 'em straight . 
He had changed from her friend to a cynical man in over alls . 
She could not relish the autocracy of cheerful bums . 
She forgot him as she tramped the outskirts of town . 
She had replaced The city hall project by an entirely new and highly exhilarating thought of how little was done for these unpicturesque poor . 
VIII The spring of the plains is not a reluctant virgin but brazen and soon away . 
The mud roads of a few days ago are powdery dust and the puddles beside them have hardened into lozenges of black sleek earth like cracked patent leather . 
Carol was panting as she crept to the meeting of the Thanatopsis program committee which was to decide the subject for next fall and winter . 
asked if there was any new business . 
She suggested that the Thanatopsis ought to help the poor of the town . 
She was ever so correct and modern . 
What do you think of my plans , Mrs. Warren ? she concluded . 
But I must say it seems to me we should lose the whole point of the thing by not regarding it as charity . 
Why , that's the chief adornment of the true Christian and the church ! The Bible has laid it down for our guidance . 
Besides , if these shiftless folks realize they're getting charity , and not something to which they have a right , they're so much more grateful . 
Besides , snorted Miss Ella Stowbody , they've been fooling you , Mrs. Kennicott . 
There isn't any real poverty here . 
Papa says these folks are fakers . 
Especially all these tenant farmers that pretend they have so much trouble getting seed and machinery . 
Papa says they simply won't pay their debts . 
He says he's sure he hates to foreclose mortgages , but it's the only way to make them respect the law . 
And then think of all the clothes we give these people ! said Mrs. Jackson Elder . 
I was going to speak of that . 
I know I'm not going to sit and sew for that lazy Mrs. Vopni , with all I've got to do ! snapped Ella Stowbody . 
They were glaring at Carol . 
She reflected that Mrs. Vopni , whose husband had been killed by a train , had ten children . 
But Mrs. Mary Ellen Wilks was smiling . 
Mrs. Wilks was the proprietor of Ye Art Shoppe and Magazine and Book Store , and the reader of the small Christian Science church . 
She glanced uneasily at Miss Sherwin . 
But what do you think , Vida ? Vida smiled tactfully at each of the committee , and announced , Well , I don't believe we'd better start anything more right now . 
But it's been a privilege to hear Carol's dear generous ideas , hasn't it ! Oh ! There is one thing we must decide on at once . 
We must get together and oppose any move on the part of the Minneapolis clubs to elect another State Federation president from the Twin Cities . 
And this Mrs. Edgar Potbury they're putting forward I know there are people who think she's a bright interesting speaker , but I regard her as very shallow . 
Yes ! We ought to show up those Minneapolis folks ! Ella Stowbody said acidly . 
And oh , by the way , we must oppose this movement of Mrs. Potbury's to have the state clubs come out definitely in favor of woman suffrage . 
Women haven't any place in politics . 
They would lose all their daintiness and charm if they became involved in these horried plots and log rolling and all this awful political stuff about scandal and personalities and so on . 
There was one annoying incident . 
Kennicott interfered and showed off again . 
Inasmuch as she did mean , it was hard to be extremely lucid . 
Everybody cleared her polite throat . 
Checkmate ! murmured Carol , as she held up her hand . 
Daily Carol walked from town into flashing country hysteric with new life . 
One enchanted hour when she returned to youth and a belief in the possibility of beauty . 
She had walked northward toward the upper shore of Plover Lake , taking to the railroad track , whose directness and dryness make it the natural highway for pedestrians on the plains . 
She stepped from tie to tie , in long strides . 
At each road crossing she had to crawl over a cattle guard of sharpened timbers . 
She walked the rails , balancing with arms extended , cautious heel before toe . 
As she lost balance her body bent over , her arms revolved wildly , and when she toppled she laughed aloud . 
The thick grass beside the track , coarse and prickly with many burnings , hid canary yellow buttercups and the mauve petals and woolly sage green coats of the pasque flowers . 
The branches of the kinnikinic brush were red and smooth as lacquer on a saki bowl . 
She ran down the gravelly embankment , smiled at children gathering flowers in a little basket , thrust a handful of the soft pasque flowers into the bosom of her white blouse . 
Fields of springing wheat drew her from the straight propriety of the railroad and she crawled through the rusty barbed wire fence . 
She followed a furrow between low wheat blades and a field of rye which showed silver lights as it flowed before the wind . 
She found a pasture by the lake . 
So sprinkled was the pasture with rag baby blossoms and the cottony herb of Indian tobacco that it spread out like a rare old Persian carpet of cream and rose and delicate green . 
Under her feet the rough grass made a pleasant crunching . 
Sweet winds blew from the sunny lake beside her , and small waves sputtered on the meadowy shore . 
She leaped a tiny creek bowered in pussy willow buds . 
She was nearing a frivolous grove of birch and poplar and wild plum trees . 
The poplar foliage had the downiness of a Corot arbor the green and silver trunks were as candid as the birches , as slender and lustrous as the limbs of a Pierrot . 
The cloudy white blossoms of the plum trees filled the grove with a springtime mistiness which gave an illusion of distance . 
She ran into the wood , crying out for joy of freedom regained after winter . 
Choke cherry blossoms lured her from the outer sun warmed spaces to depths of green stillness , where a submarine light came through the young leaves . 
She walked pensively along an abandoned road . 
She found a moccasin flower beside a lichen covered log . 
At the end of the road she saw the open acres dipping rolling fields bright with wheat . 
I believe ! The woodland gods still live ! And out there , the great land . 
It's beautiful as the mountains . 
What do I care for Thanatopsises ? She came out on the prairie , spacious under an arch of boldly cut clouds . 
Above a marsh red winged blackbirds chased a crow in a swift melodrama of the air . 
On a hill was silhouetted a man following a drag . 
His horse bent its neck and plodded , content . 
A path took her to the Corinth road , leading back to town . 
Dandelions glowed in patches amidst the wild grass by the way . 
A stream golloped through a concrete culvert beneath the road . 
She trudged in healthy weariness . 
A man in a bumping Ford rattled up beside her , hailed , Give you a lift , Mrs. Kennicott ? Thank you . 
It's awfully good of you , but I'm enjoying the walk . 
Great day , by golly . 
I seen some wheat that must of been five inches high . 
She hadn't the dimmest notion who he was , but his greeting warmed her . 
been able to find in the matrons and commercial lords of the town . 
A broad shouldered man was squatted on his heels , holding a frying pan over a camp fire . 
Well , well , what you doing out here ? he roared . 
Come have a hunk o' bacon . 
Pete ! Hey , Pete ! A tousled person came from behind the covered wagon . 
Pete , here's the one honest to God lady in my bum town . 
Come on , crawl in and set a couple minutes , Mrs. Kennicott . 
I'm hiking off for all summer . 
The Red Swede staggered up , rubbed his cramped knees , lumbered to the wire fence , held the strands apart for her . 
She unconsciously smiled at him as she went through . 
Her skirt caught on a barb he carefully freed it . 
Beside this man in blue flannel shirt , baggy khaki trousers , uneven suspenders , and vile felt hat , she was small and exquisite . 
The surly Pete set out an upturned bucket for her . 
She lounged on it , her elbows on her knees . 
Where are you going ? she asked . 
Just starting off for the summer , horse trading . 
His red mustache caught the sun . 
Regular hoboes and public benefactors we are . 
Take a hike like this every once in a while . 
Buy 'em from farmers and sell 'em to others . 
I was wishing I had a chance to say good by to you before I ducked out but Say , you better come along with us . 
Then in the morning we'll lie snug in our blankets and look up through the pines at an eagle . 
Perhaps some day I'll do it . 
Her hand disappeared in his blackened leather glove . 
From the turn in the road she waved at him . 
She walked on more soberly now , and she was lonely . 
But the wheat and grass were sleek velvet under the sun set the prairie clouds were tawny gold and she swung happily into Main Street . 
II Through the first days of June she drove with Kennicott on his calls . 
She identified him with the virile land she admired him as she saw with what respect the farmers obeyed him . 
She was out in the early chill , after a hasty cup of coffee , reaching open country as the fresh sun came up in that unspoiled world . 
Meadow larks called from the tops of thin split fence posts . 
The wild roses smelled clean . 
Before July the close heat blanketed them . 
Farmers panted through corn fields behind cultivators and the sweating flanks of horses . 
While she waited for Kennicott in the car , before a farmhouse , the seat burned her fingers and her head ached with the glare on fenders and hood . 
A black thunder shower was followed by a dust storm which turned the sky yellow with the hint of a coming tornado . 
Impalpable black dust far borne from Dakota covered the inner sills of the closed windows . 
The July heat was ever more stifling . 
They crawled along Main Street by day they found it hard to sleep at night . 
They brought mattresses down to the living room , and thrashed and turned by the open window . 
Ten times a night they talked of going out to soak themselves with the hose and wade through the dew , but they were too listless to take the trouble . 
On cool evenings , when they tried to go walking , the gnats appeared in swarms which peppered their faces and caught in their throats . 
She wanted the Northern pines , the Eastern sea , but Kennicott declared that it would be kind of hard to get away , just NOW . 
She was loyal enough but not ardent , and without ever quite intending to , she began to neglect the task as heat sucked at her strength . 
Kennicott and she motored North and spent a week with his mother that is , Carol spent it with his mother , while he fished for bass . 
The great event was their purchase of a summer cottage , down on Lake Minniemashie . 
Perhaps the most amiable feature of life in Gopher Prairie was the summer cottages . 
They were merely two room shanties , with a seepage of broken down chairs , peeling veneered tables , chromos pasted on wooden walls , and inefficient kerosene stoves . 
They were so thin walled and so close together that you could and did hear a baby being spanked in the fifth cottage off . 
But they were set among elms and lindens on a bluff which looked across the lake to fields of ripened wheat sloping up to green woods . 
Here the matrons forgot social jealousies , and sat gossiping in gingham or , in old bathing suits , surrounded by hysterical children , they paddled for hours . 
Carol joined them she ducked shrieking small boys , and helped babies construct sand basins for unfortunate minnows . 
She liked Juanita Haydock and Maud Dyer when she helped them make picnic supper for the men , who came motoring out from town each evening . 
She was easier and more natural with them . 
In the debate as to whether there should be veal loaf or poached egg on hash , she had no chance to be heretical and oversensitive . 
If they could have continued this normal barbaric life Carol would have been the most enthusiastic citizen of Gopher Prairie . 
She was relieved to be assured that she did not want bookish conversation alone that she did not expect the town to become a Bohemia . 
The women who had cheerfully gone bathing all summer looked doubtful when Carol begged , Let's keep up an outdoor life this winter , let's slide and skate . 
Their hearts shut again till spring , and the nine months of cliques and radiators and dainty refreshments began all over . 
III Carol had started a salon . 
Guy Pollock was the gentlest person she had found here . 
But Guy was incurably hermit . 
He sat late and talked hard , and did not come again . 
Then she met Champ Perry in the post office and decided that in the history of the pioneers was the panacea for Gopher Prairie , for all of America . 
We have lost their sturdiness , she told herself . 
We must restore the last of the veterans to power and follow them on the backward path to the integrity of Lincoln , to the gaiety of settlers dancing in a saw mill . 
The log stockade which Mrs. Champ Perry was to find when she trekked in was built afterward by the soldiers as a defense against the Sioux . 
The four cabins were inhabited by Maine Yankees who had come up the Mississippi to St . 
Paul and driven north over virgin prairie into virgin woods . 
For treat they had wild plums and crab apples and tiny wild strawberries . 
Grasshoppers came darkening the sky , and in an hour ate the farmwife's garden and the farmer's coat . 
Precious horses painfully brought from Illinois , were drowned in bogs or stampeded by the fear of blizzards . 
Snow blew through the chinks of new made cabins , and Eastern children , with flowery muslin dresses , shivered all winter and in summer were red and black with mosquito bites . 
Indians were everywhere they camped in dooryards , stalked into kitchens to demand doughnuts , came with rifles across their backs into schoolhouses and begged to see the pictures in the geographies . 
Packs of timber wolves treed the children and the settlers found dens of rattle snakes , killed fifty , a hundred , in a day . 
Yet it was a buoyant life . 
We took it as it came and had happy lives . 
We would all gather together and in about two minutes would be having a good time playing cards or dancing . 
We used to waltz and dance contra dances . 
None of these new jigs and not wear any clothes to speak of . 
We covered our hides in those days no tight skirts like now . 
You could take three or four steps inside our skirts and then not reach the edge . 
One of the boys would fiddle a while and then some one would spell him and he could get a dance . 
Sometimes they would dance and fiddle too . 
She reflected that if she could not have ballrooms of gray and rose and crystal , she wanted to be swinging across a puncheon floor with a dancing fiddler . 
This smug in between town , which had exchanged Money Musk for phonographs grinding out ragtime , it was neither the heroic old nor the sophisticated new . 
Couldn't she somehow , some yet unimagined how , turn it back to simplicity ? She herself knew two of the pioneers the Perrys . 
Champ Perry was the buyer at the grain elevator . 
He weighed wagons of wheat on a rough platform scale , in the cracks of which the kernels sprouted every spring . 
Between times he napped in the dusty peace of his office . 
She called on the Perrys at their rooms above Howland Gould's grocery . 
When they were already old they had lost the money , which they had invested in an elevator . 
They had given up their beloved yellow brick house and moved into these rooms over a store , which were the Gopher Prairie equivalent of a flat . 
Mrs. Perry confided , My , it's a shame we got to entertain you in such a cramped place . 
And there ain't any water except that ole iron sink outside in the hall , but still , as I say to Champ , beggars can't be choosers . 
'Sides , the brick house was too big for me to sweep , and it was way out , and it's nice to be living down here among folks . 
Yes , we're glad to be here . 
But Some day , maybe we can have a house of our own again . 
Carol had none of the superiority she felt toward Mrs. Lyman Cass's plutocratic parlor . 
She was at home here . 
She hinted of her new enthusiasm . 
This was their philosophy complete . 
is the perfect , the divinely ordained standard in music , oratory , philanthropy , and ethics . 
We don't need all this new fangled science , or this terrible Higher Criticism that's ruining our young men in colleges . 
What we need is to get back to the true Word of God , and a good sound belief in hell , like we used to have it preached to us . 
The Republican Party , the Grand Old Party of Blaine and McKinley , is the agent of the Lord and of the Baptist Church in temporal affairs . 
All socialists ought to be hanged . 
Harold Bell Wright is a lovely writer , and he teaches such good morals in his novels , and folks say he's made prett' near a million dollars out of 'em . 
People who make more than ten thousand a year or less than eight hundred are wicked . 
It doesn't hurt any to drink a glass of beer on a warm day , but anybody who touches wine is headed straight for hell . 
Virgins are not so virginal as they used to be Nobody needs drug store ice cream pie is good enough for anybody . 
The farmers want too much for their wheat . 
The owners of the elevator company expect too much for the salaries they pay . 
There would be no more trouble or discontent in the world if everybody worked as hard as Pa did when he cleared our first farm . 
IV Carol's hero worship dwindled to polite nodding , and the nodding dwindled to a desire to escape , and she went home with a headache . 
Next day she saw Miles Bjornstam on the street . 
Pumped my lungs chuck full of Rocky Mountain air . 
Now for another whirl at sassing the bosses of Gopher Prairie . 
She smiled at him , and the Perrys faded , the pioneers faded , till they were but daguerreotypes in a black walnut cupboard . 
CHAPTER XIII SHE tried , more from loyalty than from desire , to call upon the Perrys on a November evening when Kennicott was away . 
They were not at home . 
Like a child who has no one to play with she loitered through the dark hall . 
She saw a light under an office door . 
To the person who opened she murmured , Do you happen to know where the Perrys are ? She realized that it was Guy Pollock . 
I'm awfully sorry , Mrs. Kennicott , but I don't know . 
I didn't know your office was up here . 
Yes , office , town house , and chateau in Picardy . 
They're beyond that inner door . 
They are a cot and a wash stand and my other suit and the blue crepe tie you said you liked . 
You remember my saying that ? Of course . 
She glanced about the rusty office gaunt stove , shelves of tan law books , desk chair filled with newspapers so long sat upon that they were in holes and smudged to grayness . 
There were only two things which suggested Guy Pollock . 
On the green felt of the table desk , between legal blanks and a clotted inkwell , was a cloissone vase . 
On a swing shelf was a row of books unfamiliar to Gopher Prairie Mosher editions of the poets , black and red German novels , a Charles Lamb in crushed levant . 
Guy did not sit down . 
He quartered the office , a grayhound on the scent a grayhound with glasses tilted forward on his thin nose , and a silky indecisive brown mustache . 
He had a golf jacket of jersey , worn through at the creases in the sleeves . 
She noted that he did not apologize for it , as Kennicott would have done . 
He made conversation I didn't know you were a bosom friend of the Perrys . 
Champ is the salt of the earth but somehow I can't imagine him joining you in symbolic dancing , or making improvements on the Diesel engine . 
Really ? Evangelize it to what ? To anything that's definite . 
Seriousness or frivolousness or both . 
I wouldn't care whether it was a laboratory or a carnival . 
No , I think it's the town . 
But they want to stay home and embroider . 
I'm not defending the town . 
It's merely I'm a confirmed doubter of myself . 
Anyway , Gopher Prairie isn't particularly bad . 
It's like all villages in all countries . 
Most places that have lost the smell of earth but not yet acquired the smell of patchouli or of factory smoke are just as suspicious and righteous . 
I wonder if the small town isn't , with some lovely exceptions , a social appendix ? Some day these dull market towns may be as obsolete as monasteries . 
She asked impulsively , You , why do you stay here ? I have the Village Virus . 
More dangerous than the cancer that will certainly get me at fifty unless I stop this smoking . 
The Village Virus is the germ which it's extraordinarily like the hook worm it infects ambitious people who stay too long in the provinces . 
But I sha'n't pester you with my dolors . 
And do sit down , so I can see you . 
He dropped into the shrieking desk chair . 
He looked squarely at her she was conscious of the pupils of his eyes of the fact that he was a man , and lonely . 
They elaborately glanced away , and were relieved as he went on The diagnosis of my Village Virus is simple enough . 
I was born in an Ohio town about the same size as Gopher Prairie , and much less friendly . 
It'd had more generations in which to form an oligarchy of respectability . 
Here , a stranger is taken in if he is correct , if he likes hunting and motoring and God and our Senator . 
There , we didn't take in even our own till we had contemptuously got used to them . 
It was a red brick Ohio town , and the trees made it damp , and it smelled of rotten apples . 
The country wasn't like our lakes and prairie . 
There were small stuffy corn fields and brick yards and greasy oil wells . 
From college I went to New York , to the Columbia Law School . 
And for four years I lived . 
Oh , I won't rhapsodize about New York . 
It was dirty and noisy and breathless and ghastly expensive . 
But compared with the moldy academy in which I had been smothered ! I went to symphonies twice a week . 
I saw Irving and Terry and Duse and Bernhardt , from the top gallery . 
I walked in Gramercy Park . 
And I read , oh , everything . 
Through a cousin I learned that Julius Flickerbaugh was sick and needed a partner . 
He didn't like my way of loafing five hours and then doing my work in one . 
When I first came here I swore I'd keep up my interests . 
Very lofty ! I read Browning , and went to Minneapolis for the theaters . 
I thought I was keeping up . 
But I guess the Village Virus had me already . 
I was reading four copies of cheap fiction magazines to one poem . 
I'd put off the Minneapolis trips till I simply had to go there on a lot of legal matters . 
I decided to leave here . 
Then I found that the Village Virus had me , absolute I didn't want to face new streets and younger men real competition . 
It was too easy to go on making out conveyances and arguing ditching cases . 
He looked down at his table desk , fingering the starry enameled vase . 
She pictured herself running across the room to pat his hair . 
She saw that his lips were firm , under his soft faded mustache . 
She sat still and maundered , I know . 
Perhaps it will get me . 
Some day I'm going Oh , no matter . 
At least , I am making you talk ! Usually you have to be polite to my garrulousness , but now I'm sitting at your feet . 
It would be rather nice to have you literally sitting at my feet , by a fire . 
Would you have a fireplace for me ? Naturally ! Please don't snub me now ! Let the old man rave . 
How old are you , Carol ? Twenty six , Guy . 
Twenty six ! I was just leaving New York , at twenty six . 
I heard Patti sing , at twenty six . 
And now I'm forty seven . 
I feel like a child , yet I'm old enough to be your father . 
So it's decently paternal to imagine you curled at my feet . 
Of course I hope it isn't , but we'll reflect the morals of Gopher Prairie by officially announcing that it is ! . 
And the penalty we tribal rulers pay is that our subjects watch us every minute . 
We can't get wholesomely drunk and relax . 
The widow robbing deacon of fiction can't help being hypocritical . 
The widows themselves demand it ! They admire his unctuousness . 
Suppose I did dare to make love to some exquisite married woman . 
I wouldn't admit it to myself . 
I giggle with the most revolting salaciousness over La Vie Parisienne , when I get hold of one in Chicago , yet I shouldn't even try to hold your hand . 
It's the historical Anglo Saxon way of making life miserable . 
Oh , my dear , I haven't talked to anybody about myself and all our selves for years . 
We have Nature beaten we can make her grow wheat we can keep warm when she sends blizzards . 
So we raise the devil just for pleasure wars , politics , race hatreds , labor disputes . 
The worst is the commercial hatred the grocer feeling that any man who doesn't deal with him is robbing him . 
as much as to grocers . 
The doctors you know about that how your husband and Westlake and Gould dislike one another . 
No ! I won't admit it ! He grinned . 
No , REALLY ! And when you say the wives of the doctors share these jealousies Mrs. McGanum and I haven't any particular crush on each other she's so stolid . 
But her mother , Mrs. Westlake nobody could be sweeter . 
Yes , I'm sure she's very bland . 
But I wouldn't tell her my heart's secrets if I were you , my dear . 
She flinched , looked at Guy beseechingly . 
He sprang up , strode to her with a nervous step , smoothed her hand . 
She wondered if she ought to be offended by his caress . 
Then she wondered if he liked her hat , the new Oriental turban of rose and silver brocade . 
His elbow brushed her shoulder . 
He flitted over to the desk chair , his thin back stooped . 
He picked up the cloisonne vase . 
Across it he peered at her with such loneliness that she was startled . 
But his eyes faded into impersonality as he talked of the jealousies of Gopher Prairie . 
He stopped himself with a sharp , Good Lord , Carol , you're not a jury . 
You are within your legal rights in refusing to be subjected to this summing up . 
I'm a tedious old fool analyzing the obvious , while you're the spirit of rebellion . 
What is Gopher Prairie to you ? A bore ! Can I help ? How could you ? I don't know . 
I haven't done that tonight . 
And even if I liked you tremendously , I couldn't talk to you without twenty old hexes watching , whispering . 
But you will come talk to me , once in a while ? I'm not sure that I shall . 
I'm trying to develop my own large capacity for dullness and contentment . 
I've failed at every positive thing I've tried . 
I'd better settle down , as they call it , and be satisfied to be nothing . 
It hurts me , in you . 
It's like blood on the wing of a humming bird . 
I'm not a humming bird . 
I'm a hawk a tiny leashed hawk , pecked to death by these large , white , flabby , wormy hens . 
But I am grateful to you for confirming me in the faith . 
And I'm going home ! Please stay and have some coffee with me . 
But they've succeeded in terrorizing me . 
I'm afraid of what people might say . 
I'm not afraid of that . 
I'm only afraid of what you might say ! He stalked to her took her unresponsive hand . 
She squeezed his hand quickly , then snatched hers away . 
She had but little of the curiosity of the flirt , and none of the intrigante's joy in furtiveness . 
If she was the naive girl , Guy Pollock was the clumsy boy . 
He raced about the office he rammed his fists into his pockets . 
Really quite a decent young pair Harvey Dillon and his wife . 
He's a dentist , just come to town . 
They live in a room behind his office , same as I do here . 
They don't know much of anybody I've heard of them . 
And I've never thought to call . 
Do bring them She stopped , for no very clear reason , but his expression said , her faltering admitted , that they wished they had never mentioned the Dillons . 
With spurious enthusiasm he said , Splendid ! I will . 
From the door he glanced at her , curled in the peeled leather chair . 
He slipped out , came back with Dr . 
The four of them drank rather bad coffee which Pollock made on a kerosene burner . 
They laughed , and spoke of Minneapolis , and were tremendously tactful and Carol started for home , through the November wind . 
CHAPTER XIV SHE was marching home . 
No. I couldn't fall in love with him . 
I like him , very much . 
But he's too much of a recluse . 
The amazing thing is that I'm not more amazed at myself . 
I , the virtuous young matron . 
But No ! I wouldn't want to fall in love , even if the Prince did come . 
I wouldn't want to hurt Will . 
I am fond of Will . 
I am ! He doesn't stir me , not any longer . 
But I depend on him . 
He is home and children . 
I wonder when we will begin to have children ? I do want them . 
I wonder whether I remembered to tell Bea to have hominy tomorrow , instead of oatmeal ? She will have gone to bed by now . 
Perhaps I'll be up early enough Ever so fond of Will . 
I wouldn't hurt him , even if I had to lose the mad love . 
If the Prince came I'd look once at him , and run . 
Darn fast ! Oh , Carol , you are not heroic nor fine . 
You are the immutable vulgar young female . 
But I'm not the faithless wife who enjoys confiding that she's misunderstood . 
Oh , I'm not , I'm not ! Am I ? At least I didn't whisper to Guy about Will's faults and his blindness to my remarkable soul . 
I didn't ! Matter of fact , Will probably understands me perfectly ! If only if he would just back me up in rousing the town . 
How many , how incredibly many wives there must be who tingle over the first Guy Pollock who smiles at them . 
No ! I will not be one of that herd of yearners ! The coy virgin brides . 
Yet probably if the Prince were young and dared to face life I'm not half as well oriented as that Mrs. Dillon . 
So obviously adoring her dentist ! And seeing Guy only as an eccentric fogy . 
They weren't silk , Mrs. Dillon's stockings . 
Her legs are nice and slim . 
But no nicer than mine . 
I hate cotton tops on silk stockings . 
Are my ankles getting fat ? I will NOT have fat ankles ! No. I am fond of Will . 
His work one farmer he pulls through diphtheria is worth all my yammering for a castle in Spain . 
This hat is so tight . 
Time to get out the fur coat . 
I wonder if I'll ever have a beaver coat ? Nutria is NOT the same thing ! Beaver glossy . 
Like to run my fingers over it . 
How utterly absurd ! I AM , I am fond of Will , and Can't I ever find another word than fond' ? He's home . 
He'll think I was out late . 
Why can't he ever remember to pull down the shades ? Cy Bogart and all the beastly boys peeping in . 
But the poor dear , he's absent minded about minute minush whatever the word is . 
He has so much worry and work , while I do nothing but jabber to Bea . 
I MUSTN'T forget the hominy She was flying into the hall . 
Kennicott looked up from the Journal of the American Medical Society . 
Hello ! What time did you get back ? she cried . 
Here it is past eleven ! Good natured yet not quite approving . 
Did it feel neglected ? Well , you didn't remember to close the lower draft in the furnace . 
Oh , I'm so sorry . 
he kissed her amiably , and remarked Nope , I must say you're fairly good about things like that . 
I just meant I wouldn't want the fire to go out on us . 
Leave that draft open and the fire might burn up and go out on us . 
And the nights are beginning to get pretty cold again . 
Pretty cold on my drive . 
I put the side curtains up , it was so chilly . 
But the generator is working all right now . 
But I feel fine after my walk . 
Go walking ? I went up to see the Perrys . 
By a definite act of will she added the truth They weren't in . 
And I saw Guy Pollock . 
Why , you haven't been sitting and chinning with him till eleven o'clock ? Of course there were some other people there and Will ! What do you think of Dr . 
Westlake ? Westlake ? Why ? I noticed him on the street today . 
Was he limping ? If the poor fish would have his teeth X rayed , I'll bet nine and a half cents he'd find an abscess there . 
Rheumatism , hell ! He's behind the times . 
Wonder he doesn't bleed himself I Wellllllll A profound and serious yawn . 
I hate to break up the party , but it's getting late , and a doctor never knows when he'll get routed out before morning . 
I guess we better be trotting up to bed . 
I've wound the clock and looked at the furnace . 
While they talked they were preparing for bed . 
Carol still sought to maintain privacy by undressing behind the screen of the closet door . 
Kennicott was not so reticent . 
Tonight , as every night , she was irritated by having to push the old plush chair out of the way before she could open the closet door . 
Every time she opened the door she shoved the chair . 
But Kennicott liked to have the chair in the room , and there was no place for it except in front of the closet . 
She pushed it , felt angry , hid her anger . 
Kennicott was yawning , more portentously . 
She shrugged and became chatty You were speaking of Dr . 
Tell me you've never summed him up Is he really a good doctor ? Oh yes , he's a wise old coot . 
She hung her silk petticoat on a closet hook , and went on , Dr . 
Westlake is so gentle and scholarly Well , I don't know as I'd say he was such a whale of a scholar . 
I've always had a suspicion he did a good deal of four flushing about that . 
Makes me tired , his everlasting palavering and soft soaping . 
He snorted , Lord no ! I never begrudge any man a nickel he can get away from me fairly . 
But is Westlake fair ? Isn't he sly ? Sly is the word . 
He's a fox , that boy ! She saw Guy Pollock's grin in the mirror . 
Kennicott , with his arms behind his head , was yawning Yump . 
He's smooth , too smooth . 
But I bet I make prett' near as much as Westlake and McGanum both together , though I've never wanted to grab more than my just share . 
If anybody wants to go to the partners instead of to me , that's his business . 
Though I must say it makes me tired when Westlake gets hold of the Dawsons . 
They let on that if they'd waited two hours more the kid would have developed peritonitis , and God knows what all and then they collected a nice fat hundred and fifty dollars . 
And if I can't do a better 'pendectomy than either Westlake or McGanum , I'll eat my hat ! As she crept into bed she was dazzled by Guy's blazing grin . 
He's just about on a par with this bone pounding chiropractor female , Mrs. Mattie Gooch . 
Mrs. Westlake and Mrs. McGanum , though they're nice . 
They've been awfully cordial to me . 
And I don't know as I call it so damn cordial in Mrs. McGanum when I holler at her on the street and she nods back like she had a sore neck . 
Still , she's all right . 
It's Ma Westlake that makes the mischief , pussyfooting around all the time . 
But I wouldn't trust any Westlake out of the whole lot , and while Mrs. McGanum SEEMS square enough , you don't never want to forget that she's Westlake's daughter . 
You bet ! What about Dr . 
I said he had savvy enough to find the index in Gray's Anatomy , which is more than McGanum can do ! But I didn't say anything about his being honest . 
Terry is crooked as a dog's hind leg . 
He's done me more than one dirty trick . 
He told Mrs. Glorbach , seventeen miles out , that I wasn't up to date in obstetrics . 
Fat lot of good it did him ! She came right in and told me ! And Terry's lazy . 
He'd let a pneumonia patient choke rather than interrupt a poker game . 
I can't believe Well now , I'm telling you ! Does he play much poker ? Dr . 
Dillon told me that Dr . 
Gould wanted him to play Dillon told you what ? Where'd you meet Dillon ? He's just come to town . 
He and his wife were at Mr. Pollock's tonight . 
Say , uh , what'd you think of them ? Didn't Dillon strike you as pretty light waisted ? Why no . 
I'm sure he's much more wide awake than our dentist . 
Well now , the old man is a good dentist . 
And Dillon I wouldn't cuddle up to the Dillons too close , if I were you . 
All right for Pollock , and that's none of our business , but we I think I'd just give the Dillons the glad hand and pass 'em up . 
But why ? He isn't a rival . 
That's all right ! Kennicott was aggressively awake now . 
He'll work right in with Westlake and McGanum . 
Matter of fact , I suspect they were largely responsible for his locating here . 
They'll be sending him patients , and he'll send all that he can get hold of to them . 
I don't trust anybody that's too much hand in glove with Westlake . 
She draped it about her shoulders , and sat up studying Kennicott , her chin in her hands . 
In the gray light from the small electric bulb down the hall she could see that he was frowning . 
Will , this is I must get this straight . 
I'll bet a hat it was your Vida Sherwin . 
She's a brainy woman , but she'd be a damn sight brainier if she kept her mouth shut and didn't let so much of her brains ooze out that way . 
Will ! O Will ! That's horrible ! Aside from the vulgarity Some ways , Vida is my best friend . 
Even if she HAD said it . 
Which , as a matter of fact , she didn't . 
He reared up his thick shoulders , in absurd pink and green flannelette pajamas . 
He sat straight , and irritatingly snapped his fingers , and growled Well , if she didn't say it , let's forget her . 
Doesn't make any difference who said it , anyway . 
The point is that you believe it . 
He thrust out his long arm and snatched his wrinkly vest from a chair . 
He took out a cigar , a match . 
He tossed the vest on the floor . 
He lighted the cigar and puffed savagely . 
He broke up the match and snapped the fragments at the foot board . 
She suddenly saw the foot board of the bed as the foot stone of the grave of love . 
The room was drab colored and ill ventilated Kennicott did not believe in opening the windows so darn wide that you heat all outdoors . 
The stale air seemed never to change . 
In the light from the hall they were two lumps of bedclothes with shoulders and tousled heads attached . 
She begged , I didn't mean to wake you up , dear . 
You've been smoking so much . 
Please go back to sleep . 
Being sorry 's all right , but I'm going to tell you one or two things . 
Trouble with women like you is , you always want to ARGUE . 
Can't take things the way they are . 
Well , I'm not going to argue about this in any way , shape , manner , or form . 
Trouble with you is , you don't make any effort to appreciate us . 
It's they it's you who stand back and criticize . 
I have to come over to the town's opinion I have to devote myself to their interests . 
They can't even SEE my interests , to say nothing of adopting them . 
if I speak of wanting to see Taormina also . 
Sure , Tormina , whatever that is some nice expensive millionaire colony , I suppose . 
Yes , they probably are . 
How do you get that thanks to you' ? Here about a year ago you jump me for not remembering to give you money . 
I didn't blame you , and I SAID I was to blame . 
But have I ever forgotten it since practically ? No. You haven't practically ! But that isn't it . 
I ought to have an allowance . 
I will , too ! I must have an agreement for a regular stated amount , every month . 
Fine idea ! Of course a doctor gets a regular stated amount ! Sure ! A thousand one month and lucky if he makes a hundred the next . 
Very well then , a percentage . 
Me , like a poor fool , thinking I was liberal all the while , and you Please stop pitying yourself ! You're having a beautiful time feeling injured . 
I admit all you say . 
You've given me money both freely and amiably . 
Quite as if I were your mistress ! Carrie ! I mean it ! What was a magnificent spectacle of generosity to you was humiliation to me . 
then you felt you'd discharged all obligation . 
Well , hereafter I'll refuse your money , as a gift . 
Either I'm your partner , in charge of the household department of our business , with a regular budget for it , or else I'm nothing . 
If I'm to be a mistress , I shall choose my lovers . 
That's what I pay for your charming sentimentalities about giving so generously . 
You make me Wait ! Wait ! You know you're exaggerating . 
You never thought about that mistress stuff till just this minute ! Matter of fact , you never have smirked and hoped for money . 
But all the same , you may be right . 
You ought to run the household as a business . 
I'll figure out a definite plan tomorrow , and hereafter you'll be on a regular amount or percentage , with your own checking account . 
Oh , that IS decent of you ! She turned toward him , trying to be affectionate . 
But his eyes were pink and unlovely in the flare of the match with which he lighted his dead and malodorous cigar . 
His head drooped , and a ridge of flesh scattered with pale small bristles bulged out under his chin . 
She sat in abeyance till he croaked No. 'Tisn't especially decent . 
And God knows I want to be fair . 
But I expect others to be fair , too . 
And you're so high and mighty about people . 
Oh , you didn't know I was onto you , and I certainly hope Sam hasn't noticed it , but I never miss it . 
I have felt that way . 
Spitting ugh ! But I'm sorry you caught my thoughts . 
I tried to be nice I tried to hide them . 
Maybe I catch a whole lot more than you think I do ! Yes , perhaps you do . 
And d' you know why Sam doesn't light his cigar when he's here ? Why ? He's so darn afraid you'll be offended if he smokes . 
Every time he speaks of the weather you jump him because he ain't talking about poetry or Gertie Goethe ? or some other highbrow junk . 
You've got him so leery he scarcely dares to come here . 
Oh , I AM sorry . 
Well now , I don't know as I am ! And I can tell you one thing if you keep on you'll manage to drive away every friend I've got . 
That would be horrible of me . 
You KNOW I don't mean to Will , what is it about me that frightens Sam if I do frighten him . 
As I say , first you shock him , and then you become so darn flighty that nobody can follow you . 
Either you want to dance , or you bang the piano , or else you get moody as the devil and don't want to talk or anything else . 
He turned out of bed , his feet making one solid thud on the floor . 
He marched from the room , a grotesque figure in baggy union pajamas . 
She heard him drawing a drink of water at the bathroom tap . 
She was furious at the contemptuousness of his exit . 
She snuggled down in bed , and looked away from him as he returned . 
As he flumped into bed he yawned , and casually stated Well , you'll have plenty of privacy when we build a new house . 
When ! Oh , I'll build it all right , don't you fret ! But of course I don't expect any credit for it . 
Then , in great dignity and self dramatization , she returned to bed . 
All this time he had been talking on , embroidering his assertion that he didn't expect any credit . 
She was roused to attention by his storming I'm a fool to think about a new house . 
By the time I get it built you'll probably have succeeded in your plan to get me completely in Dutch with every friend and every patient I've got . 
She sat up with a bounce . 
She said coldly , Thank you very much for revealing your real opinion of me . 
If that's the way you feel , if I'm such a hindrance to you , I can't stay under this roof another minute . 
And I am perfectly well able to earn my own living . 
Please stop flying off at tangents , Carrie . 
This Tangents ? TANGENTS ! Let me tell you isn't a theater play it's a serious effort to have us get together on fundamentals . 
We've both been cranky , and said a lot of things we didn't mean . 
I wish we were a couple o' bloomin' poets and just talked about roses and moonshine , but we're human . 
Let's cut out jabbing at each other . 
Let's admit we both do fool things . 
See here You KNOW you feel superior to folks . 
She mused I think perhaps it's my childhood . 
When she went on her voice had an artificial sound , her words the bookish quality of emotional meditation . 
My father was the tenderest man in the world , but he did feel superior to ordinary people . 
The shiny tilted roofs below me , and the river , and beyond it the level fields in the mist , and the rim of palisades across It held my thoughts in . 
I LIVED , in the valley . 
But the prairie all my thoughts go flying off into the big space . 
to a lot of tea parties . 
You think Jack hasn't got any ideas about anything but manufacturing and the tariff on lumber . 
Ever realize what a well informed man he is ? But IS he ? Gopher Prairie calls anybody well informed' who's been through the State Capitol and heard about Gladstone . 
Now I'm telling you ! Lym reads a lot solid stuff history . 
Or take Mart Mahoney , the garageman . 
He's got a lot of Perry prints of famous pictures in his office . 
Or old Bingham Playfair , that died here 'bout a year ago lived seven miles out . 
He was a captain in the Civil War , and knew General Sherman , and they say he was a miner in Nevada right alongside of Mark Twain . 
You'll find these characters in all these small towns , and a pile of savvy in every single one of them , if you just dig for it . 
And I do love them . 
Especially people like Champ Perry . 
But I can't be so very enthusiastic over the smug cits like Jack Elder . 
Then I'm a smug cit , too , whatever that is . 
No , you're a scientist . 
Oh , I will try and get the music out of Mr. Elder . 
Only , why can't he let it COME out , instead of being ashamed of it , and always talking about hunting dogs ? But I will try . 
Is it all right now ? Sure . 
But there's one other thing . 
You might give me some attention , too ! That's unjust ! You have everything I am ! No , I haven't . 
You think you respect me you always hand out some spiel about my being so useful . 
But you never think of me as having ambitions , just as much as you haves Perhaps not . 
I think of you as being perfectly satisfied . 
You never worry about what might happen if we got sick and didn't have a good fat wad salted away , do you ! I don't suppose I do . 
Well then , I have to do it for you . 
I want to have a squint at the world , much's you do . 
Only , I'm practical about it . 
First place , I'm going to make the money I'm investing in good safe farmlands . 
Do you understand why now ? Yes . 
And I won't call on the Dillons ! And if Dr . 
Dillon is working for Westlake and McGanum , I hate him ! CHAPTER XV THAT December she was in love with her husband . 
She romanticized herself not as a great reformer but as the wife of a country physician . 
The realities of the doctor's household were colored by her pride . 
Late at night , a step on the wooden porch , heard through her confusion of sleep the storm door opened fumbling over the inner door panels the buzz of the electric bell . 
Kennicott muttering Gol darn it , but patiently creeping out of bed , remembering to draw the covers up to keep her warm , feeling for slippers and bathrobe , clumping down stairs . 
Die Frau ist ja awful sick . 
All night she been having an awful pain in de belly . 
How long she been this way ? Wie lang , eh ? I dunno , maybe two days . 
I t'ought maybe all de time it go avay , but it got a lot vorse . 
Any fever ? Vell ja , I t'ink she got fever . 
Which side is the pain on ? Huh ? Das Schmertz die Weh which side is it on ? Here ? So . 
Any rigidity there ? Huh ? Is it rigid stiff I mean , does the belly feel hard to the fingers ? I dunno . 
What she been eating ? Vell , I t'ink about vot ve alwis eat , maybe corn beef and cabbage and sausage , und so weiter . 
Doc , sie weint immer , all the time she holler like hell . 
Well , all right , but you call me earlier , next time . 
Look here , Barney , you better install a 'phone telephone haben . 
Some of you Dutchmen will be dying one of these days before you can fetch the doctor . 
Barney's wagon the wheels silent in the snow , but the wagon body rattling . 
Say , uh , send me up a team . 
Guess snow's too thick for a machine . 
Huh ? The hell I will ! Don't you go back to sleep . 
Huh ? Well , that's all right now , you didn't wait so very darn long . 
All right , Gus shoot her along . 
By ! His step on the stairs his quiet moving about the frigid room while he dressed his abstracted and meaningless cough . 
She was supposed to be asleep she was too exquisitely drowsy to break the charm by speaking . 
On a slip of paper laid on the bureau she could hear the pencil grinding against the marble slab he wrote his destination . 
It was luxurious in bed , and the house would be warm for her when she rose , she reflected . 
What a worthless cat she was ! What were her aspirations beside his capability ? She awoke again as he dropped into bed . 
Seems just a few minutes ago that you started out ! I've been away four hours . 
I've operated a woman for appendicitis , in a Dutch kitchen . 
Came awful close to losing her , too , but I pulled her through all right . 
Barney says he shot ten rabbits last Sunday . 
He was instantly asleep one hour of rest before he had to be up and ready for the farmers who came in early . 
They had coffee , griddle cakes , and sausages , and talked about Mrs. McGanum's atrocious alligator hide belt . 
Night witchery and morning disillusion were alike forgotten in the march of realities and days . 
II Familiar to the doctor's wife was the man with an injured leg , driven in from the country on a Sunday afternoon and brought to the house . 
He sat in a rocker in the back of a lumber wagon , his face pale from the anguish of the jolting . 
His leg was thrust out before him , resting on a starch box and covered with a leather bound horse blanket . 
His drab courageous wife drove the wagon , and she helped Kennicott support him as he hobbled up the steps , into the house . 
Fellow cut his leg with an ax pretty bad gash Halvor Nelson , nine miles out , Kennicott observed . 
Carol fluttered at the back of the room , childishly excited when she was sent to fetch towels and a basin of water . 
Kennicott lifted the farmer into a chair and chuckled , There we are , Halvor ! We'll have you out fixing fences and drinking aquavit in a month . 
The farmwife sat on the couch , expressionless , bulky in a man's dogskin coat and unplumbed layers of jackets . 
The flowery silk handkerchief which she had worn over her head now hung about her seamed neck . 
Her white wool gloves lay in her lap . 
Kennicott drew from the injured leg the thick red German sock , the innumerous other socks of gray and white wool , then the spiral bandage . 
The leg was of an unwholesome dead white , with the black hairs feeble and thin and flattened , and the scar a puckered line of crimson . 
Surely , Carol shuddered , this was not human flesh , the rosy shining tissue of the amorous poets . 
Kennicott examined the scar , smiled at Halvor and his wife , chanted , Fine , b' gosh ! Couldn't be better ! The Nelsons looked deprecating . 
I guess it'll be about eleven dollars in all , Lena . 
I dunno ve can pay you yoost a little w'ile , doctor . 
Carrie ! Suppose you or Bea could shake up a cup of coffee and some cold lamb for the Nelsons ? They got a long cold drive ahead . 
III He had been gone since morning her eyes ached with reading Vida Sherwin could not come to tea . 
She wandered through the house , empty as the bleary street without . 
The problem of Will the doctor be home in time for supper , or shall I sit down without him ? was important in the household . 
Six was the rigid , the canonical supper hour , but at half past six he had not come . 
She hurried to the window . 
The car was a monster at rest after furious adventures . 
The headlights blazed on the clots of ice in the road so that the tiniest lumps gave mountainous shadows , and the taillight cast a circle of ruby on the snow behind . 
the Doctor heir say wat shot bee rong wit mee and day give mee som Madsin but it diten halp mee like wat you dit . 
Now you gust lett mee know Wat you tink about mee , i do Wat you say . 
V She encountered Guy Pollock at the drug store . 
He looked at her as though he had a right to he spoke softly . 
I haven't see you , the last few days . 
No. I've been out in the country with Will several times . 
She nodded and smiled and was very busy about purchasing boric acid . 
He stared after her , and slipped away . 
When she found that he was gone she was slightly disconcerted . 
VI She could at times agree with Kennicott that the shaving and corsets familiarity of married life was not dreary vulgarity but a wholesome frankness that artificial reticences might merely be irritating . 
She was not much disturbed when for hours he sat about the living room in his honest socks . 
But she would not listen to his theory that all this romance stuff is simply moonshine elegant when you're courting , but no use busting yourself keeping it up all your life . 
She thought of surprises , games , to vary the days . 
She knitted an astounding purple scarf , which she hid under his supper plate . 
Once she filled a thermos bottle with hot coffee a corn flakes box with cookies just baked by Bea , and bustled to his office at three in the afternoon . 
She hid her bundles in the hall and peeped in . 
The room beyond , looking on Main Street , was business office , consulting room , operating room , and , in an alcove , bacteriological and chemical laboratory . 
The wooden floors of both rooms were bare the furniture was brown and scaly . 
She sat modestly in a stiff chair , feeling frivolous and out of place . 
Kennicott appeared at the inner door , ushering out a bleached man with a trickle of wan beard , and consoling him , All right , Dad . 
Be careful about the sugar , and mind the diet I gave you . 
Gut the prescription filled , and come in and see me next week . 
Say , uh , better , uh , better not drink too much beer . 
His voice was artificially hearty . 
He looked absently at Carol . 
He was a medical machine now , not a domestic machine . 
What is it , Carrie ? he droned . 
Just wanted to say hello . 
If you're busy long I'll trot home . 
While she waited she ceased to pity and began to mock herself . 
For the first time she observed the waiting room . 
He was satisfied by the shabby chairs . 
He put up with them as his patients did . 
It was her neglected province she who had been going about talking of rebuilding the whole town ! When the patients were gone she brought in her bundles . 
What's those ? wondered Kennicott . 
Turn your back ! Look out of the window ! He obeyed not very much bored . 
When she cried Now ! a feast of cookies and small hard candies and hot coffee was spread on the roll top desk in the inner room . 
That's a new one on me ! Never was more surprised in my life ! And , by golly , I believe I am hungry . 
Say , this is fine . 
When the first exhilaration of the surprise had declined she demanded , Will ! I'm going to refurnish your waiting room ! What's the matter with it ? It's all right . 
It is not ! It's hideous . 
We can afford to give your patients a better place . 
And it would be good business . 
Rats ! I don't worry about the business . 
I just mean Two days later , with pictures , wicker chairs , a rug , she had made the waiting room habitable and Kennicott admitted , Does look a lot better . 
Never thought much about it . 
Guess I need being bullied . 
She was convinced that she was gloriously content in her career as doctor's wife . 
VII She tried to free herself from the speculation and disillusionment which had been twitching at her sought to dismiss all the opinionation of an insurgent era . 
She wanted to shine upon the veal faced bristly bearded Lyman Cass as much as upon Miles Bjornstam or Guy Pollock . 
She gave a reception for the Thanatopsis Club . 
But her real acquiring of merit was in calling upon that Mrs. Bogart whose gossipy good opinion was so valuable to a doctor . 
Though the Bogart house was next door she had entered it but three times . 
The age of houses , like the age of men , has small relation to their years . 
The dull green cottage of the good Widow Bogart was twenty years old , but it had the antiquity of Cheops , and the smell of mummy dust . 
Its neatness rebuked the street . 
The hallway was dismayingly scrubbed the kitchen was an exercise in mathematics , with problems worked out in equidistant chairs . 
The parlor was kept for visitors . 
Carol suggested , Let's sit in the kitchen . 
Please don't trouble to light the parlor stove . 
The parlor was distinguished by an expanse of rag carpet from which , as they entered , Mrs. Bogart hastily picked one sad dead fly . 
In the center of the carpet was a rug depicting a red Newfoundland dog , reclining in a green and yellow daisy field and labeled Our Friend . 
Mrs. Bogart went thoroughly into the rumor that the girl waiter at Billy's Lunch was not all she might be or , rather , was quite all she might be . 
Her large face , with its disturbing collection of moles and lone black hairs , wrinkled cunningly . 
You don't know the things that go on under cover . 
This town why it's only the religious training I've given Cy that's kept him so innocent of things . 
She had always happened to be there . 
Once , she whispered , she was going by when an indiscreet window shade had been left up a couple of inches . 
If I had my way there wouldn't be none of them , not boys nor girls neither , allowed to know anything about about things till they was married . 
It's terrible the bald way that some folks talk . 
VIII In courtship days Kennicott had shown her a photograph of Nels Erdstrom's baby and log cabin , but she had never seen the Erdstroms . 
They had become merely patients of the doctor . 
Kennicott telephoned her on a mid December afternoon , Want to throw your coat on and drive out to Erdstrom's with me ? Fairly warm . 
Oh yes ! She hastened to put on woolen stockings , high boots , sweater , muffler , cap , mittens . 
The snow was too thick and the ruts frozen too hard for the motor . 
They drove out in a clumsy high carriage . 
The scattered houses between which they passed in town were small and desolate in contrast to the expanse of huge snowy yards and wide street . 
They crossed the railroad tracks , and instantly were in the farm country . 
The big piebald horses snorted clouds of steam , and started to trot . 
The carriage squeaked in rhythm . 
Kennicott drove with clucks of There boy , take it easy ! He was thinking . 
He paid no attention to Carol . 
Yet it was he who commented , Pretty nice , over there , as they approached an oak grove where shifty winter sunlight quivered in the hollow between two snow drifts . 
They drove from the natural prairie to a cleared district which twenty years ago had been forest . 
The country seemed to stretch unchanging to the North Pole low hill , brush scraggly bottom , reedy creek , muskrat mound , fields with frozen brown clods thrust up through the snow . 
Her ears and nose were pinched her breath frosted her collar her fingers ached . 
Getting colder , she said . 
That was all their conversation for three miles . 
Every tree had been cut down . 
The house was so unsheltered , so battered by the wind , so bleakly thrust out into the harsh clearing , that Carol shivered . 
But they were welcomed warmly enough in the kitchen , with its crisp new plaster , its black and nickel range , its cream separator in a corner . 
He vanished , then peeped in again , biting his knuckles , turning his shoulder toward her in shyness . 
Didn't she remember what was it ? Kennicott sitting beside her at Fort Snelling , urging , See how scared that baby is . 
Needs some woman like you . 
Magic had fluttered about her then magic of sunset and cool air and the curiosity of lovers . 
She held out her hands as much to that sanctity as to the boy . 
He edged into the room , doubtfully sucking his thumb . 
What's your name ? Hee , hee , hee ! You're quite right . 
Silly people like me always ask children their names . 
He stood stoically while she spun nonsense . 
Then the telephone bell two long rings , one short . 
Amputation ? Yuh , I see . 
Say , Dave , get Gus to harness up and take my surgical kit down there and have him take some chloroform . 
I'll go straight down from here . 
May not get home tonight . 
You can get me at Adolph's . 
Huh ? No , Carrie can give the anesthetic , I guess . 
Huh ? No tell me about that tomorrow too damn many people always listening in on this farmers' line . 
Afraid we'll have to go right from here . 
Darn sorry to drag you clear down there with me Please do . 
Don't mind me a bit . 
Think you could give the anesthetic ? Usually have my driver do it . 
If you'll tell me how . 
Say , did you hear me putting one over on these goats that are always rubbering in on party wires ? I hope they heard me ! Well . 
Now , Bessie , don't you worry about Nels . 
He's getting along all right . 
Tomorrow you or one of the neighbors drive in and get this prescription filled at Dyer's . 
Give him a teaspoonful every four hours . 
The purple road vanished , and without lights , in the darkness of a world destroyed , they swayed on toward nothing . 
It was a bumpy cold way to the Morgenroth farm , and she was asleep when they arrived . 
Here was no glaring new house with a proud phonograph , but a low whitewashed kitchen smelling of cream and cabbage . 
Adolph Morgenroth was lying on a couch in the rarely used dining room . 
His heavy work scarred wife was shaking her hands in anxiety . 
Carol felt that Kennicott would do something magnificent and startling . 
Wie viel Uhr ist 's ? Sieben ? Nun , lassen uns ein wenig supper zuerst haben . 
Got any of that good beer left giebt 's noch Bier ? He had supped in four minutes . 
His coat off , his sleeves rolled up , he was scrubbing his hands in a tin basin in the sink , using the bar of yellow kitchen soap . 
Carol had not dared to look into the farther room while she labored over the supper of beer , rye bread , moist cornbeef and cabbage , set on the kitchen table . 
The man in there was groaning . 
In her one glance she had seen that his blue flannel shirt was open at a corded tobacco brown neck , the hollows of which were sprinkled with thin black and gray hairs . 
He was covered with a sheet , like a corpse , and outside the sheet was his right arm , wrapped in towels stained with blood . 
But Kennicott strode into the other room gaily , and she followed him . 
With surprising delicacy in his large fingers he unwrapped the towels and revealed an arm which , below the elbow , was a mass of blood and raw flesh . 
The room grew thick about her she was very seasick she fled to a chair in the kitchen . 
Through the haze of nausea she heard Kennicott grumbling , Afraid it will have to come off , Adolph . 
What did you do ? Fall on a reaper blade ? We'll fix it right up . 
Carrie ! CAROL ! She couldn't she couldn't get up . 
Then she was up , her knees like water , her stomach revolving a thousand times a second , her eyes filmed , her ears full of roaring . 
She couldn't reach the dining room . 
She was going to faint . 
No , first go out and shove those two tables together , and put a blanket on them and a clean sheet . 
It was salvation to push the heavy tables , to scrub them , to be exact in placing the sheet . 
Kennicott came to lay out his instruments . 
She helped them to move Adolph into the kitchen . 
The man was in such a funk that he would not use his legs . 
He was heavy , and smelled of sweat and the stable . 
But she put her arm about his waist , her sleek head by his chest she tugged at him she clicked her tongue in imitation of Kennicott's cheerful noises . 
Look who's here ! Real anesthetist ! Ochsner hasn't got a better one ! Class , eh ? . 
Now , now , Adolph , take it easy . 
This won't hurt you a bit . 
Put you all nice and asleep and it won't hurt a bit . 
Schweig' mal ! Bald schlaft man grat wie ein Kind . 
Here , Mrs. Morgenroth , you stand right here and hold this lamp . 
Hier , und dieses dieses lamp halten so ! By that streaky glimmer he worked , swiftly , at ease . 
Carol tried to look at him , yet not look at the seeping blood , the crimson slash , the vicious scalpel . 
The ether fumes were sweet , choking . 
Her head seemed to be floating away from her body . 
She was lost in dizziness . 
She heard Kennicott's voice Sick ? Trot outdoors couple minutes . 
Adolph will stay under now . 
She was fumbling at a door knob which whirled in insulting circles she was on the stoop , gasping , forcing air into her chest , her head clearing . 
He speaks a vulgar , common , incorrect German of life and death and birth and the soil . 
I read the French and German of sentimental lovers and Christmas garlands . 
And I thought that it was I who had the culture ! she worshiped as she returned to her place . 
After a time he snapped , That's enough . 
Don't give him any more ether . 
He was concentrated on tying an artery . 
His gruffness seemed heroic to her . 
As he shaped the flap of flesh she murmured , Oh , you ARE wonderful ! He was surprised . 
Why , this is a cinch . 
Now if it had been like last week Get me some more water . 
Now last week I had a case with an ooze in the peritoneal cavity , and by golly if it wasn't a stomach ulcer that I hadn't suspected and There . 
Say , I certainly am sleepy . 
Too late to drive home . 
And tastes to me like a storm coming . 
IX They slept on a feather bed with their fur coats over them in the morning they broke ice in the pitcher the vast flowered and gilt pitcher . 
Kennicott's storm had not come . 
When they set out it was hazy and growing warmer . 
After a mile she saw that he was studying a dark cloud in the north . 
He urged the horses to the run . 
But she forgot his unusual haste in wonder at the tragic landscape . 
The pale snow , the prickles of old stubble , and the clumps of ragged brush faded into a gray obscurity . 
Under the hillocks were cold shadows . 
The willows about a farmhouse were agitated by the rising wind , and the patches of bare wood where the bark had peeled away were white as the flesh of a leper . 
The snowy slews were of a harsh flatness . 
The whole land was cruel , and a climbing cloud of slate edged blackness dominated the sky . 
Guess we're about in for a blizzard , speculated Kennicott We can make Ben McGonegal's , anyway . 
Blizzard ? Really ? Why But still we used to think they were fun when I was a girl . 
Daddy had to stay home from court , and we'd stand at the window and watch the snow . 
Not much fun on the prairie . 
He chirruped at the horses . 
They were flying now , the carriage rocking on the hard ruts . 
The whole air suddenly crystallized into large damp flakes . 
The horses and the buffalo robe were covered with snow her face was wet the thin butt of the whip held a white ridge . 
The snowflakes were harder they shot in level lines , clawing at her face . 
She could not see a hundred feet ahead . 
He bent forward , the reins firm in his coonskin gauntlets . 
She was certain that he would get through . 
He always got through things . 
Save for his presence , the world and all normal living disappeared . 
They were lost in the boiling snow . 
He leaned close to bawl , Letting the horses have their heads . 
With a terrifying bump they were off the road , slanting with two wheels in the ditch , but instantly they were jerked back as the horses fled on . 
She tried to , and did not , feel brave as she pulled the woolen robe up about her chin . 
They were passing something like a dark wall on the right . 
I know that barn ! he yelped . 
He pulled at the reins . 
Peeping from the covers she saw his teeth pinch his lower lip , saw him scowl as he slackened and sawed and jerked sharply again at the racing horses . 
Put robe around you and come on , he cried . 
In a swirl of flakes which scratched at their eyes like a maniac darkness , he unbuckled the harness . 
He turned and plodded back , a ponderous furry figure , holding the horses' bridles , Carol's hand dragging at his sleeve . 
They came to the cloudy bulk of a barn whose outer wall was directly upon the road . 
Feeling along it , he found a gate , led them into a yard , into the barn . 
It stunned them with its languid quiet . 
He carefully drove the horses into stalls . 
Her toes were coals of pain . 
Let's run for the house , she said . 
Might get lost ten feet away from it . 
Sit over in this stall , near the horses . 
We'll rush for the house when the blizzard lifts . 
He rubbed her feet , and covered her with the buffalo robe and horse blankets from the pile on the feed box . 
She was drowsy , hemmed in by the storm . 
She sighed You're so strong and yet so skilful and not afraid of blood or storm or Used to it . 
Only thing that's bothered me was the chance the ether fumes might explode , last night . 
But I had to operate , of course wound chuck full of barnyard filth that way . 
You knew all the time that Both you and I might have been blown up ? You knew it while you were operating ? Sure . 
Didn't you ? Why , what's the matter ? CHAPTER XVI KENNICOTT was heavily pleased by her Christmas presents , and he gave her a diamond bar pin . 
He said only Nice way to fix things , all right . 
She remembered him reading out a long indictment of himself for being a sentimentalist , against the peace and dignity of the State of Minnesota . 
She remembered his thin legs twinkling before their sled She muttered unsteadily , Must run up and put on my shoes slippers so cold . 
In the not very romantic solitude of the locked bathroom she sat on the slippery edge of the tub and wept . 
II Kennicott had five hobbies medicine , land investment , Carol , motoring , and hunting . 
It is not certain in what order he preferred them . 
He nursed his two year old Buick even in winter , when it was stored in the stable garage behind the house . 
He filled the grease cups , varnished a fender , removed from beneath the back seat the debris of gloves , copper washers , crumpled maps , dust , and greasy rags . 
Winter noons he wandered out and stared owlishly at the car . 
He became excited over a fabulous trip we might take next summer . 
His liturgy was composed of intoned and metrical road comments They say there's a pretty good hike from Duluth to International Falls . 
Hunting was equally a devotion , full of metaphysical concepts veiled from Carol . 
He kept the loading tools he had used as a boy a capper for shot gun shells , a mold for lead bullets . 
She wondered if he was thinking of the child they would have when , as he put it , they were sure they could afford one . 
Driving through the country , he noticed which farms had good crops he heard the news about the restless farmer who was thinking about selling out here and pulling his freight for Alberta . 
He was always consulting Julius Flickerbaugh , who handled more real estate than law , and more law than justice . 
He studied township maps , and read notices of auctions . 
He spoke of these details to Sam Clark . 
In all his games , cars and guns and land , he expected Carol to take an interest . 
But he did not give her the facts which might have created interest . 
He talked only of the obvious and tedious aspects never of his aspirations in finance , nor of the mechanical principles of motors . 
This month of romance she was eager to understand his hobbies . 
She shivered in the garage while he spent half an hour in deciding whether to put alcohol or patent non freezing liquid into the radiator , or to drain out the water entirely . 
Seen the newspaper ? What the devil did Bea do with it ? She did not try again . 
III They had gone to the movies . 
The movies were almost as vital to Kennicott and the other solid citizens of Gopher Prairie as land speculation and guns and automobiles . 
The feature film portrayed a brave young Yankee who conquered a South American republic . 
Mr. Schnarken was at various high moments a cook , a life guard , a burlesque actor , and a sculptor . 
There was a hotel hallway up which policemen charged , only to be stunned by plaster busts hurled upon them from the innumerous doors . 
If the plot lacked lucidity , the dual motif of legs and pie was clear and sure . 
I'm glad , said Carol to Kennicott as they stooped before the northwest gale which was torturing the barren street , that this is a moral country . 
We don't allow any of these beastly frank novels . 
Vice Society and Postal Department won't stand for them . 
The American people don't like filth . 
I'm glad we have such dainty romances as Right on the Coco' instead . 
Say what in heck do you think you're trying to do ? Kid me ? He was silent . 
She meditated upon his gutter patois , the Boeotian dialect characteristic of Gopher Prairie . 
When they came into the glow of the house he laughed again . 
He condescended I've got to hand it to you . 
You're consistent , all right . 
I'd of thought that after getting this look in at a lot of good decent farmers , you'd get over this high art stuff , but you hang right on . 
Well To herself He takes advantage of my trying to be good . 
Then I'm probably a crank . 
No. I won't admit it . 
You do like to talk , but at a show down you'd prefer Sam Clark to any damn long haired artist . 
Oh well Oh well ! mockingly . 
Oh , we're a terror ! . 
It was Peeping Tom's idea of humor . 
Look here now She lay awake , while he rumbled with sleep I must go on . 
My crank ideas he calls them . 
I thought that adoring him , watching him operate , would be enough . 
Not after the first thrill . 
I don't want to hurt him . 
But I must go on . 
It isn't enough , to stand by while he fills an automobile radiator and chucks me bits of information . 
If I stood by and admired him long enough , I would be content . 
I would become a nice little woman . 
Already I'm not reading anything . 
I haven't touched the piano for a week . 
I'm letting the days drown in worship of a good deal , ten plunks more per acre . 
I won't ! I won't succumb ! How ? I've failed at everything the Thanatopsis , parties , pioneers , city hall , Guy and Vida . 
But It doesn't MATTER ! I'm not trying to reform the town' now . 
I'm not trying to organize Browning Clubs , and sit in clean white kids yearning up at lecturers with ribbony eyeglasses . 
I am trying to save my soul . 
Will Kennicott , asleep there , trusting me , thinking he holds me . 
All of me left him when he laughed at me . 
It wasn't enough for him that I admired him I must change myself and grow like him . 
IV Her violin lay on top of the upright piano . 
Since she had last touched it the dried strings had snapped , and upon it lay a gold and crimson cigar band . 
V She longed to see Guy Pollock , for the confirming of the brethren in the faith . 
But Kennicott's dominance was heavy upon her . 
She could not determine whether she was checked by fear or him , or by inertia by dislike of the emotional labor of the scenes which would be involved in asserting independence . 
She was like the revolutionist at fifty not afraid of death , but bored by the probability of bad steaks and bad breaths and sitting up all night on windy barricades . 
The second evening after the movies she impulsively summoned Vida Sherwin and Guy to the house for pop corn and cider . 
In the living room Vida and Kennicott debated the value of manual training in grades below the eighth , while Carol sat beside Guy at the dining table , buttering pop corn . 
She was quickened by the speculation in his eyes . 
She murmured Guy , do you want to help me ? My dear ! How ? I don't know ! He waited . 
I think I want you to help me find out what has made the darkness of the women . 
Gray darkness and shadowy trees . 
What is it we want and need ? Will Kennicott there would say that we need lots of children and hard work . 
What do we want ? Essentially , I think , you are like myself , Carol you want to go back to an age of tranquillity and charming manners . 
You want to enthrone good taste again . 
It's all the same revolt , in all the classes that have waited and taken advice . 
I think perhaps we want a more conscious life . 
We're tired of drudging and sleeping and dying . 
We're tired of seeing just a few people able to be individualists . 
We're tired of always deferring hope till the next generation . 
For ten thousand years they've said that . 
We want our Utopia NOW and we're going to try our hands at it . 
All we want is everything for all of us ! For every housewife and every longshoreman and every Hindu nationalist and every teacher . 
So we shatn't ever be content She wondered why he was wincing . 
I ain't going to be nagged by no bureaus and take orders off labor leaders . 
She realized that he was not a mystery , as she had excitedly believed not a romantic messenger from the World Outside on whom she could count for escape . 
He belonged to Gopher Prairie , absolutely . 
She was snatched back from a dream of far countries , and found herself on Main Street . 
He was completing his protest , You don't want to be mixed up in all this orgy of meaningless discontent ? She soothed him . 
I'm scared by all the fighting that's going on in the world . 
I want nobility and adventure , but perhaps I want still more to curl on the hearth with some one I love . 
Would you He did not finish it . 
He picked up a handful of pop corn , let it run through his fingers , looked at her wistfully . 
With the loneliness of one who has put away a possible love Carol saw that he was a stranger . 
She saw that he had never been anything but a frame on which she had hung shining garments . 
If she had let him diffidently make love to her , it was not because she cared , but because she did not care , because it did not matter . 
She smiled at him with the exasperating tactfulness of a woman checking a flirtation a smile like an airy pat on the arm . 
She sighed , You're a dear to let me tell you my imaginary troubles . 
She bounced up , and trilled , Shall we take the pop corn in to them now ? Guy looked after her desolately . 
While she teased Vida and Kennicott she was repeating , I must go on . 
VI Miles Bjornstam , the pariah Red Swede , had brought his circular saw and portable gasoline engine to the house , to cut the cords of poplar for the kitchen range . 
The red irritable motor kept up a red irritable tip tip tip tip tip tip . 
She threw a motor robe over her , ran out . 
Bjornstam welcomed her , Well , well , well ! Here's old Miles , fresh as ever . 
Well say , that's all right he ain't even begun to be cheeky yet next summer he's going to take you out on his horse trading trip , clear into Idaho . 
Yes , and I may go ! How's tricks ? Crazy about the town yet ? No , but I probably shall be , some day . 
Don't let 'em get you . 
Kick 'em in the face ! He shouted at her while he worked . 
The pile of stove wood grew astonishingly . 
The pale bark of the poplar sticks was mottled with lichens of sage green and dusty gray the newly sawed ends were fresh colored , with the agreeable roughness of a woolen muffler . 
To the sterile winter air the wood gave a scent of March sap . 
Kennicott telephoned that he was going into the country . 
Bjornstam had not finished his work at noon , and she invited him to have dinner with Bea in the kitchen . 
She wished that she were independent enough to dine with these her guests . 
She considered their friendliness , she sneered at social distinctions , she raged at her own taboos and she continued to regard them as retainers and herself as a lady . 
She sat in the dining room and listened through the door to Bjornstam's booming and Bea's giggles . 
They were attracted to each other a Swedish Othello and Desdemona , more useful and amiable than their prototypes . 
Bjornstam told his scapes selling horses in a Montana mining camp , breaking a log jam , being impertinent to a two fisted millionaire lumberman . 
Bea gurgled Oh my ! and kept his coffee cup filled . 
He took a long time to finish the wood . 
He had frequently to go into the kitchen to get warm . 
Carol heard him confiding to Bea , You're a darn nice Swede girl . 
I guess if I had a woman like you I wouldn't be such a sorehead . 
Gosh , your kitchen is clean makes an old bach feel sloppy . 
Say , that's nice hair you got . 
Huh ? Me fresh ? Saaaay , girl , if I ever do get fresh , you'll know it . 
Why , I could pick you up with one finger , and hold you in the air long enough to read Robert J. Ingersoll clean through . 
Ingersoll ? Oh , he's a religious writer . 
When he drove off he waved to Bea and Carol , lonely at the window above , was envious of their pastoral . 
And I But I will go on . 
CHAPTER XVII I THEY were driving down the lake to the cottages that moonlit January night , twenty of them in the bob sled . 
The moon tipped flakes kicked up by the horses settled over the revelers and dripped down their necks , but they laughed , yelped , beat their leather mittens against their chests . 
The harness rattled , the sleigh bells were frantic , Jack Elder's setter sprang beside the horses , barking . 
For a time Carol raced with them . 
The cold air gave fictive power . 
She felt that she could run on all night , leap twenty feet at a stride . 
But the excess of energy tired her , and she was glad to snuggle under the comforters which covered the hay in the sled box . 
In the midst of the babel she found enchanted quietude . 
Along the road the shadows from oak branches were inked on the snow like bars of music . 
Then the sled came out on the surface of Lake Minniemashie . 
Across the thick ice was a veritable road , a short cut for farmers . 
On the glaring expanse of the lake levels of hard crust , flashes of green ice blown clear , chains of drifts ribbed like the sea beach the moonlight was overwhelming . 
It stormed on the snow , it turned the woods ashore into crystals of fire . 
The night was tropical and voluptuous . 
In that drugged magic there was no difference between heavy heat and insinuating cold . 
The turbulent voices , even Guy Pollock being connotative beside her , were nothing . 
She repeated Deep on the convent roof the snows Are sparkling to the moon . 
The words and the light blurred into one vast indefinite happiness , and she believed that some great thing was coming to her . 
She withdrew from the clamor into a worship of incomprehensible gods . 
The night expanded , she was conscious of the universe , and all mysteries stooped down to her . 
She was jarred out of her ecstasy as the bob sled bumped up the steep road to the bluff where stood the cottages . 
They dismounted at Jack Elder's shack . 
The interior walls of unpainted boards , which had been grateful in August , were forbidding in the chill . 
In fur coats and mufflers tied over caps they were a strange company , bears and walruses talking . 
Jack Elder lighted the shavings waiting in the belly of a cast iron stove which was like an enlarged bean pot . 
They piled their wraps high on a rocker , and cheered the rocker as it solemnly tipped over backward . 
Terry Gould , after announcing , Ladies and gents , prepare to be shocked shock line forms on the right , produced a bottle of bourbon whisky . 
The others danced , muttering Ouch ! as their frosted feet struck the pine planks . 
Carol had lost her dream . 
Harry Haydock lifted her by the waist and swung her . 
The gravity of the people who stood apart and talked made her the more impatient for frolic . 
Kennicott , Sam Clark , Jackson Elder , young Dr . 
McGanum , and James Madison Howland , teetering on their toes near the stove , conversed with the sedate pomposity of the commercialist . 
In details the men were unlike , yet they said the same things in the same hearty monotonous voices . 
You had to look at them to see which was speaking . 
Well , we made pretty good time coming up , from one any one . 
Yump , we hit it up after we struck the good going on the lake . 
Seems kind of slow though , after driving an auto . 
Yump , it does , at that . 
Say , how'd you make out with that Sphinx tire you got ? Seems to hold out fine . 
Still , I don't know's I like it any better than the Roadeater Cord . 
Yump , nothing better than a Roadeater . 
The cord's lots better than the fabric . 
Yump , you said something Roadeater's a good tire . 
Say , how'd you come out with Pete Garsheim on his payments ? He's paying up pretty good . 
That's a nice piece of land he's got . 
Yump , that's a dandy farm . 
Yump , Pete's got a good place there . 
They glided from these serious topics into the jocose insults which are the wit of Main Street . 
Sam Clark was particularly apt at them . 
What's this wild eyed sale of summer caps you think you're trying to pull off ? he clamored at Harry Haydock . 
Did you steal 'em , or are you just overcharging us , as usual ? . 
She fled back to the dancers , and at Dave Dyer's masterstroke of dropping an icicle down Mrs. McGanum's back she applauded hysterically . 
They sat on the floor , devouring the food . 
The men giggled amiably as they passed the whisky bottle , and laughed , There's a real sport ! when Juanita Haydock took a sip . 
Carol tried to follow she believed that she desired to be drunk and riotous but the whisky choked her and as she saw Kennicott frown she handed the bottle on repentantly . 
Somewhat too late she remembered that she had given up domesticity and repentance . 
Let's play charades ! said Raymie Wutherspoon . 
Oh yes , do let us , said Ella Stowbody . 
That's the caper , sanctioned Harry Haydock . 
They interpreted the word making as May and King . 
The crown was a red flannel mitten cocked on Sam Clark's broad pink bald head . 
They forgot they were respectable . 
Carol was stimulated to cry Let's form a dramatic club and give a play ! Shall we ? It's been so much fun tonight ! They looked affable . 
Sure , observed Sam Clark loyally . 
Oh , do let us ! I think it would be lovely to present Romeo and Juliet' ! yearned Ella Stowbody . 
Be a whale of a lot of fun , Dr . 
But if we did , Carol cautioned , it would be awfully silly to have amateur theatricals . 
We ought to paint our own scenery and everything , and really do something fine . 
There'd be a lot of hard work . 
Would you would we all be punctual at rehearsals , do you suppose ? You bet ! Sure . 
Fellow ought to be prompt at rehearsals , they all agreed . 
Then let's meet next week and form the Gopher Prairie Dramatic Association ! Carol sang . 
She drove home loving these friends who raced through moonlit snow , had Bohemian parties , and were about to create beauty in the theater . 
She would be an authentic part of the town , yet escape the coma of the Village Virus . 
She would be free of Kennicott again , without hurting him , without his knowing . 
The moon was small and high now , and unheeding . 
Terry Gould , and four new candidates flirtatious Rita Simons , Dr . 
and Mrs. Harvey Dillon and Myrtle Cass , an uncomely but intense girl of nineteen . 
Of these fifteen only seven came to the first meeting . 
The rest telephoned their unparalleled regrets and engagements and illnesses , and announced that they would be present at all other meetings through eternity . 
Carol was made president and director . 
She had added the Dillons . 
Carol had noted Mrs. Dillon dragging past the house during a bridge of the Jolly Seventeen , looking in with pathetic lips at the splendor of the accepted . 
She impulsively invited the Dillons to the dramatic association meeting , and when Kennicott was brusque to them she was unusually cordial , and felt virtuous . 
Ella Stowbody , who was a professional , having studied elocution in Milwaukee , disapproved of Carol's enthusiasm for recent plays . 
Miss Stowbody expressed the fundamental principle of the American drama the only way to be artistic is to present Shakespeare . 
As no one listened to her she sat back and looked like Lady Macbeth . 
III The Little Theaters , which were to give piquancy to American drama three or four years later , were only in embryo . 
But of this fast coming revolt Carol had premonitions . 
She knew from some lost magazine article that in Dublin were innovators called The Irish Players . 
She had a sensation of familiarity a dream of sitting in a Brussels cafe and going afterward to a tiny gay theater under a cathedral wall . 
She had to be there ! She begged Kennicott to run down to the Cities with her . 
Well , I don't know . 
What's this junk you want to see ? Hm . 
How He Lied to Her Husband . 
That doesn't listen so bad . 
And , uh , well , I could go to the motor show , I suppose . 
I'd like to see this new Hup roadster . 
Well She never knew which attraction made him decide . 
She wailed , I haven't a single solitary thing that's fit to be seen in , and enjoyed herself very much indeed . 
Kennicott went about casually letting people know that he was going to run down to the Cities and see some shows . 
She closed her eyes and hummed , and did not know that she was humming . 
She was the young poet attacking fame and Paris . 
In the Minneapolis station the crowd of lumberjacks , farmers , and Swedish families with innumerous children and grandparents and paper parcels , their foggy crowding and their clamor confused her . 
She felt rustic in this once familiar city , after a year and a half of Gopher Prairie . 
She was certain that Kennicott was taking the wrong trolley car . 
By dusk , the liquor warehouses , Hebraic clothing shops , and lodging houses on lower Hennepin Avenue were smoky , hideous , ill tempered . 
She was battered by the noise and shuttling of the rush hour traffic . 
When a clerk in an overcoat too closely fitted at the waist stared at her , she moved nearer to Kennicott's arm . 
The clerk was flippant and urban . 
He was a superior person , used to this tumult . 
Was he laughing at her ? For a moment she wanted the secure quiet of Gopher Prairie . 
In the hotel lobby she was self conscious . 
She was not used to hotels she remembered with jealousy how often Juanita Haydock talked of the famous hotels in Chicago . 
She could not face the traveling salesmen , baronial in large leather chairs . 
The hidden orchestra was lively . 
She saw a man who looked like a European diplomat , in a loose top coat and a Homburg hat . 
A woman with a broadtail coat , a heavy lace veil , pearl earrings , and a close black hat entered the restaurant . 
Heavens ! That's the first really smart woman I've seen in a year ! Carol exulted . 
She unconsciously waited for the bellboy to precede her into the elevator . 
When he snorted Go ahead ! she was mortified . 
He thought she was a hayseed , she worried . 
The moment she was in their room , with the bellboy safely out of the way , she looked critically at Kennicott . 
For the first time in months she really saw him . 
His clothes were too heavy and provincial . 
His decent gray suit , made by Nat Hicks of Gopher Prairie , might have been of sheet iron it had no distinction of cut , no easy grace like the diplomat's Burberry . 
His black shoes were blunt and not well polished . 
His scarf was a stupid brown . 
But she forgot her doubt as she realized the ingenuities of the room . 
She flung her arms about Kennicott , kissed him . 
Like it , old lady ? It's adorable . 
I love you for bringing me . 
Must take a big furnace to run this place . 
Gosh , I hope Bea remembers to turn off the drafts tonight . 
Kennicott went from shop to shop , earnestly hunting down a felt covered device to keep the windshield of his car clear of rain . 
They dined extravagantly at their hotel at night , and next morning sneaked round the corner to economize at a Childs' Restaurant . 
They sat at a teak and marble table eating Eggs Fooyung , and listened to a brassy automatic piano , and were altogether cosmopolitan . 
On the street they met people from home the McGanums . 
Whatever the McGanums were at home , here they stood out as so superior to all the undistinguishable strangers absurdly hurrying past that the Kennicotts held them as long as they could . 
The McGanums said good by as though they were going to Tibet instead of to the station to catch No. north . 
They looked across Loring Park and the Parade to the towers of St . 
Mark's and the Procathedral , and the red roofs of houses climbing Kenwood Hill . 
They drove about the chain of garden circled lakes , and viewed the houses of the millers and lumbermen and real estate peers the potentates of the expanding city . 
Between a waste of tracks and a raw gouged hill they found poverty in staggering shanties . 
They saw miles of the city which they had never known in their days of absorption in college . 
So it was with affection but also with weariness that they approached the evening on which Carol was to see the plays at the dramatic school . 
So darn tired from all this walking don't know but what we better turn in early and get rested up . 
V They were in a long whitewashed hall with a clumsy draw curtain across the front . 
The folding chairs were filled with people who looked washed and ironed parents of the pupils , girl students , dutiful teachers . 
Strikes me it's going to be punk . 
If the first play isn't good , let's beat it , said Kennicott hopefully . 
All right , she yawned . 
With hazy eyes she tried to read the lists of characters , which were hidden among lifeless advertisements of pianos , music dealers , restaurants , candy . 
She regarded the Schnitzler play with no vast interest . 
The actors moved and spoke stiffly . 
Just as its cynicism was beginning to rouse her village dulled frivolity , it was over . 
Don't think a whale of a lot of that . 
How about taking a sneak ? petitioned Kennicott . 
Oh , let's try the next one , How He Lied to Her Husband . 
The Shaw conceit amused her , and perplexed Kennicott Strikes me it's darn fresh . 
Thought it would be racy . 
Don't know as I think much of a play where a husband actually claims he wants a fellow to make love to his wife . 
No husband ever did that ! Shall we shake a leg ? I want to see this Yeats thing , Land of Heart's Desire . 
I used to love it in college . 
She was awake now , and urgent . 
I know you didn't care so much for Yeats when I read him aloud to you , but you just see if you don't adore him on the stage . 
Well gosh nice kid played that girl good looker , said Kennicott . 
Want to stay for the last piece ? Heh ? She shivered . 
The curtain was again drawn aside . 
On the stage they saw nothing but long green curtains and a leather chair . 
Two young men in brown robes like furniture covers were gesturing vacuously and droning cryptic sentences full of repetitions . 
It was Carol's first hearing of Dunsany . 
She sympathized with the restless Kennicott as he felt in his pocket for a cigar and unhappily put it back . 
Without understanding when or how , without a tangible change in the stilted intoning of the stage puppets , she was conscious of another time and place . 
Stately and aloof among vainglorious tiring maids , a queen in robes that murmured on the marble floor , she trod the gallery of a crumbling palace . 
Beyond the turrets of the outer wall the jungle glared and shrieked , and the sun was furious above drenched orchids . 
A youth came striding through the steel bossed doors , the sword bitten doors that were higher than ten tall men . 
He was in flexible mail , and under the rim of his planished morion were amorous curls . 
She fell with a jolt into a whitewashed hall and sat looking at two scared girls and a young man in wrinkled tights . 
Kennicott fondly rambled as they left the hall What the deuce did that last spiel mean ? Couldn't make head or tail of it . 
If that's highbrow drama , give me a cow puncher movie , every time ! Thank God , that's over , and we can get to bed . 
Wonder if we wouldn't make time by walking over to Nicollet to take a car ? One thing I will say for that dump they had it warm enough . 
Must have a big hot air furnace , I guess . 
Never , not all her life , would she behold jungles and the tombs of kings . 
There were strange things in the world , they really existed but she would never see them . 
She would recreate them in plays ! She would make the dramatic association understand her aspiration . 
They would , surely they would She looked doubtfully at the impenetrable reality of yawning trolley conductor and sleepy passengers and placards advertising soap and underwear . 
CHAPTER XVIII I SHE hurried to the first meeting of the play reading committee . 
Her jungle romance had faded , but she retained a religious fervor , a surge of half formed thought about the creation of beauty by suggestion . 
A Dunsany play would be too difficult for the Gopher Prairie association . 
She would let them compromise on Shaw on Androcles and the Lion , which had just been published . 
The committee was composed of Carol , Vida Sherwin , Guy Pollock , Raymie Wutherspoon , and Juanita Haydock . 
They were exalted by the picture of themselves as being simultaneously business like and artistic . 
Vida was an advocate of culture buying and efficiency systems . 
How about The School for Scandal' ? Why Don't you think that has been done a good deal ? Yes , perhaps it has . 
Now I've brought something that I think would be awfully jolly . 
She held out , and Carol incredulously took , a thin gray pamphlet entitled McGinerty's Mother in law . 
It was the sort of farce which is advertised in school entertainment catalogues as Riproaring knock out , m . 
, interior set , popular with churches and all high class occasions . 
Carol glanced from the scabrous object to Vida , and realized that she was not joking . 
But this is this is why , it's just a Why , Vida , I thought you appreciated well appreciated art . 
Have any of you read it ? Yes . 
Good play , said Guy Pollock . 
Then Raymie Wutherspoon astoundingly spoke up So have I. I read through all the plays in the public library , so's to be ready for this meeting . 
And But I don't believe you grasp the irreligious ideas in this Androcles , Mrs. Kennicott . 
I guess the feminine mind is too innocent to understand all these immoral writers . 
So Now I've found a play that is clean , and there's some awfully funny scenes in it , too . 
I laughed out loud , reading it . 
I bet we could get the rights to The Girl from Kankakee , and that's a real show . 
It ran for eleven months in New York ! That would be lots of fun , if it wouldn't cost too much , reflected Vida . 
Carol's was the only vote cast against The Girl from Kankakee . 
II She disliked The Girl from Kankakee even more than she had expected . 
It narrated the success of a farm lassie in clearing her brother of a charge of forgery . 
She became secretary to a New York millionaire and social counselor to his wife and after a well conceived speech on the discomfort of having money , she married his son . 
There was also a humorous office boy . 
Carol discerned that both Juanita Haydock and Ella Stowbody wanted the lead . 
She let Juanita have it . 
Juanita kissed her and in the exuberant manner of a new star presented to the executive committee her theory , What we want in a play is humor and pep . 
There's where American playwrights put it all over these darn old European glooms . 
As selected by Carol and confirmed by the committee , the persons of the play were John Grimm , a millionaire . 
Miss Vida Sherwin His son . 
Harvey Dillon His business rival . 
Raymond T. Wutherspoon Friend of Mrs. Grimm . 
Miss Ella Stowbody The girl from Kankakee . 
Mrs. Harold C. Haydock Her brother . 
Miss Rita Simons Office boy . 
Miss Myrtle Cass Maid in the Grimms' home . 
Ella Stowbody , the professional , perceiving that it was because of a conspiracy of jealousy that she had been given a small part , alternated between lofty amusement and Christian patience . 
Carol hinted that the play would be improved by cutting , but as every actor except Vida and Guy and herself wailed at the loss of a single line , she was defeated . 
She told herself that , after all , a great deal could be done with direction and settings . 
Sam Clark had boastfully written about the dramatic association to his schoolmate , Percy Bresnahan , president of the Velvet Motor Company of Boston . 
All through the spring the association thrilled to its own talent in that dismal room . 
They cleared out the bunting , ballot boxes , handbills , legless chairs . 
It was a simple minded stage . 
There were two dressing rooms , one for men , one for women , on either side . 
There were three gradations of lighting full on , half on , and entirely off . 
This was the only theater in Gopher Prairie . 
It was known as the op'ra house . 
Carol intended to be furiously modern in constructing the office set , the drawing room for Mr. Grimm , and the Humble Home near Kankakee . 
It was the first time that any one in Gopher Prairie had been so revolutionary as to use enclosed scenes with continuous side walls . 
The inhabitants of the Humble Home were supposed to be amiable and intelligent . 
Carol planned for them a simple set with warm color . 
She could see the beginning of the play all dark save the high settles and the solid wooden table between them , which were to be illuminated by a ray from offstage . 
The high light was a polished copper pot filled with primroses . 
Less clearly she sketched the Grimm drawing room as a series of cool high white arches . 
As to how she was to produce these effects she had no notion . 
She discovered that , despite the enthusiastic young writers , the drama was not half so native and close to the soil as motor cars and telephones . 
She discovered that simple arts require sophisticated training . 
She discovered that to produce one perfect stage picture would be as difficult as to turn all of Gopher Prairie into a Georgian garden . 
She read all she could find regarding staging , she bought paint and light wood she borrowed furniture and drapes unscrupulously she made Kennicott turn carpenter . 
She collided with the problem of lighting . 
Only Kennicott , Guy , and Vida helped her . 
The rest of the association dropped into the theater every evening , and were literary and superior . 
They had borrowed Carol's manuals of play production and had become extremely stagey in vocabulary . 
Juanita Haydock , Rita Simons , and Raymie Wutherspoon sat on a sawhorse , watching Carol try to get the right position for a picture on the wall in the first scene . 
I don't want to hand myself anything but I believe I'll give a swell performance in this first act , confided Juanita . 
I wish Carol wasn't so bossy though . 
Young Rita agreed , She's so much taken up with her old details and carpentering and everything that she can't see the picture as a whole . 
Now I thought it would be lovely if we had an office scene like the one in Little , But Oh My ! Because I SAW that , in Duluth . 
But she simply wouldn't listen at all . 
Juanita sighed , I wanted to give one speech like Ethel Barrymore would , if she was in a play like this . 
Carol didn't pay any attention to my suggestion . 
I must say I think she was pretty sarcastic . 
I've been reading up , and I know I could build a cyclorama , if she didn't want to run everything . 
Yes , and another thing , I think the entrance in the first act ought to be L. U. E. , not L. E. , from Juanita . 
And why does she just use plain white tormenters ? What's a tormenter ? blurted Rita Simons . 
The savants stared at her ignorance . 
III Carol did not resent their criticisms , she didn't very much resent their sudden knowledge , so long as they let her make pictures . 
It was at rehearsals that the quarrrels broke . 
No one understood that rehearsals were as real engagements as bridge games or sociables at the Episcopal Church . 
They gaily came in half an hour late , or they vociferously came in ten minutes early , and they were so hurt that they whispered about resigning when Carol protested . 
For all her visions she could not control her voice , and she was bored by the fiftieth repetition of her few lines as maid . 
Guy pulled his soft mustache , looked self conscious , and turned Mr. Grimm into a limp dummy . 
But Raymie , as the villain , had no repressions . 
The tilt of his head was full of character his drawl was admirably vicious . 
There was an evening when Carol hoped she was going to make a play a rehearsal during which Guy stopped looking abashed . 
From that evening the play declined . 
We know our parts well enough now what's the use of getting sick of them ? they complained . 
After loafing through his proper part Dr . 
Terry Gould had great applause for his burlesque of Hamlet . 
Even Raymie lost his simple faith , and tried to show that he could do a vaudeville shuffle . 
Carol turned on the company . 
See here , I want this nonsense to stop . 
We've simply got to get down to work . 
Juanita Haydock led the mutiny Look here , Carol , don't be so bossy . 
After all , we're doing this play principally for the fun of it , and if we have fun out of a lot of monkey shines , why then Ye es , feebly . 
You said one time that folks in G. P. didn't get enough fun out of life . 
I want fun out of this , of course . 
Only I don't think it would be less fun , but more , to produce as perfect a play as we can . 
She was curiously exalted her voice was strained she stared not at the company but at the grotesques scrawled on the backs of wing pieces by forgotten stage hands . 
I wonder if you can understand the fun' of making a beautiful thing , the pride and satisfaction of it , and the holiness ! The company glanced doubtfully at one another . 
In Gopher Prairie it is not good form to be holy except at a church , between ten thirty and twelve on Sunday . 
But if we want to do it , we've got to work we must have self discipline . 
They were at once amused and embarrassed . 
They did not want to affront this mad woman . 
They backed off and tried to rehearse . 
It was a tent show , presenting snappy new dramas under canvas . 
The hard working actors doubled in brass , and took tickets and between acts sang about the moon in June , and sold Dr . 
Wintergreen's Surefire Tonic for Ills of the Heart , Lungs , Kidneys , and Bowels . 
Wintergreen's Tonic as a cure for tape worms , which he illustrated by horrible pallid objects curled in bottles of yellowing alcohol . 
But these optimisms did not sound so loud as the laughter of the audience at the funny man's line , Yes , by heckelum , I'm a smart fella . 
She wanted to give up the play , the dramatic association , the town . 
It was Miles Bjornstam who gave her strength he and the fact that every seat for The Girl from Kankakee had been sold . 
Bjornstam was keeping company with Bea . 
Every night he was sitting on the back steps . 
Once when Carol appeared he grumbled , Hope you're going to give this burg one good show . 
If you don't , reckon nobody ever will . 
V It was the great night it was the night of the play . 
The two dressing rooms were swirling with actors , panting , twitchy pale . 
Del Snafflin's orchestra of piano , violin , and cornet began to tune up and every one behind the magic line of the proscenic arch was frightened into paralysis . 
Carol wavered to the hole in the curtain . 
There were so many people out there , staring so hard In the second row she saw Miles Bjornstam , not with Bea but alone . 
He really wanted to see the play ! It was a good omen . 
Who could tell ? Perhaps this evening would convert Gopher Prairie to conscious beauty . 
She darted into the women's dressing room , roused Maud Dyer from her fainting panic , pushed her to the wings , and ordered the curtain up . 
It rose doubtfully , it staggered and trembled , but it did get up without catching this time . 
Then she realized that Kennicott had forgotten to turn off the houselights . 
Some one out front was giggling . 
She galloped round to the left wing , herself pulled the switch , looked so ferociously at Kennicott that he quaked , and fled back . 
Mrs. Dyer was creeping out on the half darkened stage . 
And with that instant Carol realized that it was a bad play abominably acted . 
Encouraging them with lying smiles , she watched her work go to pieces . 
The settings seemed flimsy , the lighting commonplace . 
Gould , making love to Rita Simons , squeak , My my you are a won'erful girl . 
Only Raymie was so unsociable as to devote himself entirely to acting . 
That she was right in her opinion of the play Carol was certain when Miles Bjornstam went out after the first act , and did not come back . 
VI Between the second and third acts she called the company together , and supplicated , I want to know something , before we have a chance to separate . 
Whether we're doing well or badly tonight , it is a beginning . 
It's going elegant tonight , but another play Seems to me it'll be time enough to talk about that next fall . 
As the audience seeped out she heard B. J. Gougerling the banker say to Howland the grocer , Well , I think the folks did splendid just as good as professionals . 
But I don't care much for these plays . 
What I like is a good movie , with auto accidents and hold ups , and some git to it , and not all this talky talk . 
Then Carol knew how certain she was to fail again . 
She wearily did not blame them , company nor audience . 
Herself she blamed for trying to carve intaglios in good wholesome jack pine . 
It's the worst defeat of all . 
But I can't ! She was not vastly encouraged by the Gopher Prairie Dauntless . 
would be impossible to distinguish among the actors when all gave such fine account of themselves in difficult roles of this well known New York stage play . 
Miss Vida Sherwin the ever popular teacher in our high school pleased as Mrs. Grimm , Dr . 
Gould was well suited in the role of young lover girls you better look out , remember the doc is a bachelor . 
The local Four Hundred also report that he is a great hand at shaking the light fantastic tootsies in the dance . 
to no one is greater credit to be given than to Mrs. Will Kennicott on whose capable shoulders fell the burden of directing . 
So kindly , Carol mused , so well meant , so neighborly and so confoundedly untrue . 
Its justification was in its service as a market town for farmers . 
The shipper and the grocers here wouldn't pay us a decent price for our potatoes , even though folks in the cities were howling for 'em . 
So we says , well , we'll get a truck and ship 'em right down to Minneapolis . 
There you got it good market , and these towns keeping us from it . 
Gus , that's the way these towns work all the time . 
They pay what they want to for our wheat , but we pay what they want us to for their clothes . 
Stowbody and Dawson foreclose every mortgage they can , and put in tenant farmers . 
Man , I'd like to burn this town ! Kennicott observed , There's that old crank Wes Brannigan shooting off his mouth again . 
She met Guy she found that she had nothing to say to him . 
Her head ached in an aimless way . 
When Kennicott rejoiced , We'll have a great time this summer move down to the lake early and wear old clothes and act natural , she smiled , but her smile creaked . 
In the prairie heat she trudged along unchanging ways , talked about nothing to tepid people , and reflected that she might never escape from them . 
She was startled to find that she was using the word escape . 
Then , for three years which passed like one curt paragraph , she ceased to find anything interesting save the Bjornstams and her baby . 
II Bea and Miles Bjornstam were married in June , a month after The Girl from Kankakee . 
Carol was the patroness and manager of the wedding . 
Juanita Haydock mocked , You're a chump to let a good hired girl like Bea go . 
Huh ? Me go to their Scandahoofian wedding ? Not a chance ! The other matrons echoed Juanita . 
Carol was dismayed by the casualness of their cruelty , but she persisted . 
Miles had exclaimed to her , Jack Elder says maybe he'll come to the wedding ! Gee , it would be nice to have Bea meet the Boss as a reg'lar married lady . 
Miles continuously glanced back at the church door . 
Jackson Elder did not appear . 
The door did not once open after the awkward entrance of the first guests . 
Miles's hand closed on Bea's arm . 
He had , with Carol's help , made his shanty over into a cottage with white curtains and a canary and a chintz chair . 
Carol coaxed the powerful matrons to call on Bea . 
They half scoffed , half promised to go . 
III She was unexpectedly appointed to the town library board by Ole Jenson , the new mayor . 
The other members were Dr . 
Westlake , Lyman Cass , Julius Flickerbaugh the attorney , Guy Pollock , and Martin Mahoney , former livery stable keeper and now owner of a garage . 
She went to the first meeting rather condescendingly , regarding herself as the only one besides Guy who knew anything about books or library methods . 
She was planning to revolutionize the whole system . 
She discovered that amiable old Dr . 
Westlake quoted the Paradiso , Don Quixote , Wilhelm Meister , and the Koran , she reflected that no one she knew , not even her father , had read all four . 
She came diffidently to the second meeting of the board . 
She did not plan to revolutionize anything . 
She hoped that the wise elders might be so tolerant as to listen to her suggestions about changing the shelving of the juveniles . 
Yet after four sessions of the library board she was where she had been before the first session . 
She had found that for all their pride in being reading men , Westlake and Cass and even Guy had no conception of making the library familiar to the whole town . 
They used it , they passed resolutions about it , and they left it as dead as Moses . 
They had no tenderness for the noisiness of youth discovering great literature . 
If she was egotistic about her tiny learning , they were at least as much so regarding theirs . 
The Incident of the Seventeen Cents killed her none too enduring interest . 
She had come to the board meeting singing with a plan . 
She had made a list of thirty European novels of the past ten years , with twenty important books on psychology , education , and economics which the library lacked . 
She had made Kennicott promise to give fifteen dollars . 
If each of the board would contribute the same , they could have the books . 
The rest of the meeting they gave to a bellicose investigation of the fact that there was seventeen cents less than there should be in the Fund . 
She was reasonably regular in attendance till her two years were up and Vida Sherwin was appointed to the board in her place , but she did not try to be revolutionary . 
In the plodding course of her life there was nothing changed , and nothing new . 
IV Kennicott made an excellent land deal , but as he told her none of the details , she was not greatly exalted or agitated . 
They had so long agreed that perhaps it would be just as well not to have any children for a while yet , that childlessness had come to be natural . 
Now , she feared and longed and did not know she hesitatingly assented , and wished that she had not assented . 
As there appeared no change in their drowsy relations , she forgot all about it , and life was planless . 
A reed hut on fantastic piles above the mud of a jungle river . 
A suite in Paris , immense high grave rooms , with lambrequins and a balcony . 
An ancient stone mill in Maryland , at the turn of the road , between rocky brook and abrupt hills . 
An upland moor of sheep and flitting cool sunlight . 
A clanging dock where steel cranes unloaded steamers from Buenos Ayres and Tsing tao . 
A Munich concert hall , and a famous 'cellist playing playing to her . 
One scene had a persistent witchery She stood on a terrace overlooking a boulevard by the warm sea . 
She was certain , though she had no reason for it , that the place was Mentone . 
Beyond the drive were painted sea and painted sands , and blue and yellow pavilions . 
Nothing moved except the gliding carriages , and the people were small and wooden , spots in a picture drenched with gold and hard bright blues . 
It was the rapid ticking of the clock which had hypnotized her into hearing the steady hoofs . 
And nothing was changed , and there was no reason to believe that there ever would be change . 
VI Trains ! At the lake cottage she missed the passing of the trains . 
She realized that in town she had depended upon them for assurance that there remained a world beyond . 
The railroad was more than a means of transportation to Gopher Prairie . 
The East remembered generations when there had been no railroad , and had no awe of it but here the railroads had been before time was . 
If a town was in disfavor , the railroad could ignore it , cut it off from commerce , slay it . 
To Gopher Prairie the tracks were eternal verities , and boards of railroad directors an omnipotence . 
Even in this new era of motors the citizens went down to the station to see the trains go through . 
Gopher Prairie had once been a division point . 
They were a special caste , neither above nor below the Haydocks , but apart , artists and adventurers . 
The night telegraph operator at the railroad station was the most melodramatic figure in town awake at three in the morning , alone in a room hectic with clatter of the telegraph key . 
All night he talked to operators twenty , fifty , a hundred miles away . 
It was always to be expected that he would be held up by robbers . 
During blizzards everything about the railroad was melodramatic . 
There were days when the town was completely shut off , when they had no mail , no express , no fresh meat , no newspapers . 
At last the rotary snow plow came through , bucking the drifts , sending up a geyser , and the way to the Outside was open again . 
To the small boys the railroad was a familiar playground . 
They climbed the iron ladders on the sides of the box cars built fires behind piles of old ties waved to favorite brakemen . 
But to Carol it was magic . 
She was motoring with Kennicott , the car lumping through darkness , the lights showing mud puddles and ragged weeds by the road . 
A train coming ! A rapid chuck a chuck , chuck a chuck , chuck a chuck . 
It was hurling past the Pacific Flyer , an arrow of golden flame . 
Light from the fire box splashed the under side of the trailing smoke . 
Instantly the vision was gone Carol was back in the long darkness and Kennicott was giving his version of that fire and wonder No. . 
Must be 'bout ten minutes late . 
In town , she listened from bed to the express whistling in the cut a mile north . 
Down here there were no trains . 
The stillness was very great . 
The prairie encircled the lake , lay round her , raw , dusty , thick . 
Only the train could cut it . 
Some day she would take a train and that would be a great taking . 
VII She turned to the Chautauqua as she had turned to the dramatic association , to the library board . 
She pictured a condensed university course brought to the people . 
She took her doubt to Kennicott . 
He insisted , Well , maybe it won't be so awful darn intellectual , the way you and I might like it , but it's a whole lot better than nothing . 
Vida Sherwin added , They have some splendid speakers . 
If the people don't carry off so much actual information , they do get a lot of new ideas , and that's what counts . 
During the Chautauqua Carol attended three evening meetings , two afternoon meetings , and one in the morning . 
But it was the contentment of the lost hunter stopping to rest . 
These were the several instructors in the condensed university's seven day course Nine lecturers , four of them ex ministers , and one an ex congressman , all of them delivering inspirational addresses . 
The only facts or opinions which Carol derived from them were Lincoln was a celebrated president of the United States , but in his youth extremely poor . 
James J. Hill was the best known railroad man of the West , and in his youth extremely poor . 
London is a large city . 
A distinguished statesman once taught Sunday School . 
Four entertainers who told Jewish stories , Irish stories , German stories , Chinese stories , and Tennessee mountaineer stories , most of which Carol had heard . 
A lady elocutionist who recited Kipling and imitated children . 
A lecturer with motion pictures of an Andean exploration excellent pictures and a halting narrative . 
Three brass bands , a company of six opera singers , a Hawaiian sextette , and four youths who played saxophones and guitars disguised as wash boards . 
The most applauded pieces were those , such as the Lucia inevitability , which the audience had heard most often . 
The local superintendent , who remained through the week while the other enlighteners went to other Chautauquas for their daily performances . 
He gave most of the morning lectures , droning with equal unhappy facility about poetry , the Holy Land , and the injustice to employers in any system of profit sharing . 
The final item was a man who neither lectured , inspired , nor entertained a plain little man with his hands in his pockets . 
Enough trouble in life without looking for it ! Thus the Chautauqua , as Carol saw it . 
After it , the town felt proud and educated . 
VIII Two weeks later the Great War smote Europe . 
For a month Gopher Prairie had the delight of shuddering , then , as the war settled down to a business of trench fighting , they forgot . 
When Carol talked about the Balkans , and the possibility of a German revolution , Kennicott yawned , Oh yes , it's a great old scrap , but it's none of our business . 
Folks out here are too busy growing corn to monkey with any fool war that those foreigners want to get themselves into . 
It was Miles Bjornstam who said , I can't figure it out . 
I'm opposed to wars , but still , seems like Germany has got to be licked because them Junkers stands in the way of progress . 
She was calling on Miles and Bea , early in autumn . 
They had received her with cries , with dusting of chairs , and a running to fetch water for coffee . 
Miles stood and beamed at her . 
He fell often and joyously into his old irreverence about the lords of Gopher Prairie , but always with a certain difficulty he added something decorous and appreciative . 
Lots of people have come to see you , haven't they ? Carol hinted . 
Why , Bea's cousin Tina comes in right along , and the foreman at the mill , and Oh , we have good times . 
Carol worried about their struggle , but she forgot it in the stress of sickness and fear . 
For that autumn she knew that a baby was coming , that at last life promised to be interesting in the peril of the great change . 
CHAPTER XX I THE baby was coming . 
Each morning she was nauseated , chilly , bedraggled , and certain that she would never again be attractive each twilight she was afraid . 
She did not feel exalted , but unkempt and furious . 
The period of daily sickness crawled into an endless time of boredom . 
She was encircled by greasy eyes . 
Every matron hinted , Now that you're going to be a mother , dearie , you'll get over all these ideas of yours and settle down . 
I could stand fighting them . 
Mrs. Champ Perry bustled in to lend Ben Hur , as a preventive of future infant immorality . 
Then the baby was born , without unusual difficulty a boy with straight back and strong legs . 
The first day she hated him for the tides of pain and hopeless fear he had caused she resented his raw ugliness . 
After that she loved him with all the devotion and instinct at which she had scoffed . 
He was named Hugh , for her father . 
Hugh developed into a thin healthy child with a large head and straight delicate hair of a faint brown . 
He was thoughtful and casual a Kennicott . 
For two years nothing else existed . 
She did not , as the cynical matrons had prophesied , give up worrying about the world and other folks' babies soon as she got one of her own to fight for . 
The barbarity of that willingness to sacrifice other children so that one child might have too much was impossible to her . 
But she would sacrifice herself . 
I was kind of thinking more about Reverend Warren , said Kennicott . 
Hugh was her reason for living , promise of accomplishment in the future , shrine of adoration and a diverting toy . 
I thought I'd be a dilettante mother , but I'm as dismayingly natural as Mrs. Bogart , she boasted . 
For two years Carol was a part of the town as much one of Our Young Mothers as Mrs. McGanum . 
Her opinionation seemed dead she had no apparent desire for escape her brooding centered on Hugh . 
He sha'n't always stay here in Gopher Prairie . 
The true Main Streetite defines a relative as a person to whose house you go uninvited , to stay as long as you like . 
It does not mean that he has written to the relatives these many years , nor that they have ever given signs of a desire to look upon him . 
They appeared unannounced , before the baby was born , took their welcome for granted , and immediately began to complain of the fact that their room faced north . 
Uncle Whittier and Aunt Bessie assumed that it was their privilege as relatives to laugh at Carol , and their duty as Christians to let her know how absurd her notions were . 
They objected to the food , to Oscarina's lack of friendliness , to the wind , the rain , and the immodesty of Carol's maternity gowns . 
For fussy discussion they had a rich , full genius , and their example developed in Kennicott a tendency to the same form of affectionate flaying . 
If Carol was so indiscreet as to murmur that she had a small headache , instantly the two Smails and Kennicott were at it . 
So they sought to evolve the postal rate from their inner consciousnesses , which , combined with entire frankness in thinking aloud , was their method of settling all problems . 
The Smails did not believe in all this nonsense about privacy and reticence . 
When Carol left a letter from her sister on the table , she was astounded to hear from Uncle Whittier , I see your sister says her husband is doing fine . 
You ought to go see her oftener . 
I asked Will and he says you don't go see her very often . 
Carol was discovering that the one thing that can be more disconcerting than intelligent hatred is demanding love . 
They were like the Sunday afternoon mob starting at monkeys in the Zoo , poking fingers arid making faces and giggling at the resentment of the more dignified race . 
Lots of farmers in Dakota getting 'em these days . 
Think they can run stores better 'n storekeepers ! Huh ! Whit and I didn't need no co operation as long as we was farming ! triumphed Aunt Bessie . 
After three weeks Uncle Whittier remarked , We kinda like Gopher Prairie . 
Guess maybe we'll stay here . 
We'd been wondering what we'd do , now we've sold the creamery and my farms . 
So I had a talk with Ole Jenson about his grocery , and I guess I'll buy him out and storekeep for a while . 
Kennicott soothed her Oh , we won't see much of them . 
They'll have their own house . 
She resolved to be so chilly that they would stay away . 
But she had no talent for conscious insolence . 
They found a house , but Carol was never safe from their appearance with a hearty , Thought we'd drop in this evening and keep you from being lonely . 
They immediately became friendly with all of their own race , with the Luke Dawsons , the Deacon Piersons , and Mrs. Bogart and brought them along in the evening . 
Aunt Bessie was a bridge over whom the older women , bearing gifts of counsel and the ignorance of experience , poured into Carol's island of reserve . 
Aunt Bessie urged the good Widow Bogart , Drop in and see Carrie real often . 
Young folks today don't understand housekeeping like we do . 
Mrs. Bogart showed herself perfectly willing to be an associate relative . 
Carol was thinking up protective insults when Kennicott's mother came down to stay with Brother Whittier for two months . 
Carol was fond of Mrs. Kennicott . 
She could not carry out her insults . 
She had been kidnaped by the town . 
She was Aunt Bessie's niece , and she was to be a mother . 
She found a refuge in the Jolly Seventeen . 
She suddenly understood that they could be depended upon to laugh with her at Mrs. Bogart , and she now saw Juanita Haydock's gossip not as vulgarity but as gaiety and remarkable analysis . 
Her life had changed , even before Hugh appeared . 
She looked forward to the next bridge of the Jolly Seventeen , and the security of whispering with her dear friends Maud Dyer and Juanita and Mrs. McGanum . 
She was part of the town . 
Its philosophy and its feuds dominated her . 
She liked best to talk about Hugh to Kennicott , Vida , and the Bjornstams . 
She was happily domestic when Kennicott sat by her on the floor , to watch baby make faces . 
She was delighted when Miles , speaking as one man to another , admonished Hugh , I wouldn't stand them skirts if I was you . 
Join the union and strike . 
Make 'em give you pants . 
As a parent , Kennicott was moved to establish the first child welfare week held in Gopher Prairie . 
Carol helped him weigh babies and examine their throats , and she wrote out the diets for mute German and Scandinavian mothers . 
The aristocracy of Gopher Prairie , even the wives of the rival doctors , took part , and for several days there was community spirit and much uplift . 
She hated herself for it , but she hoped that no one saw her go into the Bjornstam shanty . 
She hated herself and the town's indifferent cruelty when she saw Bea's radiant devotion to both babies alike when she saw Miles staring at them wistfully . 
He had saved money , had quit Elder's planing mill and started a dairy on a vacant lot near his shack . 
He was proud of his three cows and sixty chickens , and got up nights to nurse them . 
I'll be a big farmer before you can bat an eye ! I tell you that young fellow Olaf is going to go East to college along with the Haydock kids . 
Uh Lots of folks dropping in to chin with Bea and me now . 
Say ! Ma Bogart come in one day ! She was I liked the old lady fine . 
And the mill foreman comes in right along . 
Oh , we got lots of friends . 
You bet ! IV Though the town seemed to Carol to change no more than the surrounding fields , there was a constant shifting , these three years . 
The citizen of the prairie drifts always westward . 
The towns remain unvaried , yet the individual faces alter like classes in college . 
There is , except among professional men and the wealthy , small permanence either of residence or occupation . 
Ole Jenson the grocer and Dahl the butcher moved on to South Dakota and Idaho . 
Rita Simons was married to Terry Gould , and rivaled Juanita Haydock as the gayest of the Young Married Set . 
But Juanita also acquired merit . 
Harry's father died , Harry became senior partner in the Bon Ton Store , and Juanita was more acidulous and shrewd and cackling than ever . 
She bought an evening frock , and exposed her collar bone to the wonder of the Jolly Seventeen , and talked of moving to Minneapolis . 
She hinted to Kennicott of the probable medical advantages of Montana and Oregon . 
Yet to the casual eye she was not discontented , she was not an abnormal and distressing traitor to the faith of Main Street . 
It is probable that the agitated citizen has within his circle at least one inarticulate rebel with aspirations as wayward as Carol's . 
The presence of the baby had made her take Gopher Prairie and the brown house seriously , as natural places of residence . 
With nine tenths of her emotion concentrated upon Hugh , she did not criticize shops , streets , acquaintances . 
Thinking of Hugh's teething all the way , she did not reflect that this store , these drab blocks , made up all her background . 
She did her work , and she triumphed over winning from the Clarks at five hundred . 
The most considerable event of the two years after the birth of Hugh occurred when Vida Sherwin resigned from the high school and was married . 
Carol was her attendant , and as the wedding was at the Episcopal Church , all the women wore new kid slippers and long white kid gloves , and looked refined . 
They were blue , and they were never still they expressed amusement , pity , enthusiasm . 
If she had been seen in sleep , with the wrinkles beside her eyes stilled and the creased lids hiding the radiant irises , she would have lost her potency . 
Each year she was reconvinced that the pupils were beginning to learn more quickly . 
She lived an engrossed useful life , and seemed as cool and simple as an apple . 
But secretly she was creeping among fears , longing , and guilt . 
She knew what it was , but she dared not name it . 
She hated even the sound of the word sex . 
When she dreamed of being a woman of the harem , with great white warm limbs , she awoke to shudder , defenseless in the dusk of her room . 
Thus she mounted to endurance and surcease . 
By day , rattling about in many activities , she was able to ridicule her blazing nights of darkness . 
In the autumn of , a year before Dr . 
Will Kennicott was married , Vida was his partner at a five hundred tournament . 
She was thirty four then Kennicott about thirty six . 
To her he was a superb , boyish , diverting creature all the heroic qualities in a manly magnificent body . 
They had been helping the hostess to serve the Waldorf salad and coffee and gingerbread . 
They were in the kitchen , side by side on a bench , while the others ponderously supped in the room beyond . 
Kennicott was masculine and experimental . 
He stroked Vida's hand , he put his arm carelessly about her shoulder . 
Don't ! she said sharply . 
You're a cunning thing , he offered , patting the back of her shoulder in an exploratory manner . 
While she strained away , she longed to move nearer to him . 
He bent over , looked at her knowingly . 
She glanced down at his left hand as it touched her knee . 
She sprang up , started noisily and needlessly to wash the dishes . 
He was too lazy to adventure further and too used to women in his profession . 
She was grateful for the impersonality of his talk . 
It enabled her to gain control . 
She knew that she had skirted wild thoughts . 
His arm was about her . 
Don't you like the poor lonely bachelor ? he yammered in a fatuous way . 
No , I don't ! You don't care for me in the least . 
You're just practising on me . 
You're so mean ! I'm terribly fond of you . 
And I'm not going to let myself be fond of you , either . 
He persistently drew her toward him . 
Then she threw off the robe , climbed out of the sled , raced after it with Harry Haydock . 
At the dance which followed the sleigh ride Kennicott was devoted to the watery prettiness of Maud Dyer , and Vida was noisily interested in getting up a Virginia Reel . 
Without seeming to watch Kennicott , she knew that he did not once look at her . 
That was all of her first love affair . 
He gave no sign of remembering that he was terribly fond . 
She waited for him she reveled in longing , and in a sense of guilt because she longed . 
She fought it out in prayer . 
She wanted to be a nun and observe perpetual adoration . 
She bought a rosary , but she had been so bitterly reared as a Protestant that she could not bring herself to use it . 
Yet none of her intimates in the school and in the boarding house knew of her abyss of passion . 
They said she was so optimistic . 
When she heard that Kennicott was to marry a girl , pretty , young , and imposingly from the Cities , Vida despaired . 
She congratulated Kennicott carelessly ascertained from him the hour of marriage . 
At that hour , sitting in her room , Vida pictured the wedding in St . 
Full of an ecstasy which horrified her , she followed Kennicott and the girl who had stolen her place , followed them to the train , through the evening , the night . 
She saw Carol during the first five minutes in Gopher Prairie . 
She stared at the passing motor , at Kennicott and the girl beside him . 
She was glad of the girl's charm , of the smooth black hair , the airy head and young shoulders . 
But she was suddenly angry . 
Carol glanced at her for a quarter second , but looked past her , at an old roadside barn . 
If she had made the great sacrifice , at least she expected gratitude and recognition , Vida raged , while her conscious schoolroom mind fussily begged her to control this insanity . 
During her first call half of her wanted to welcome a fellow reader of books the other half itched to find out whether Carol knew anything about Kennicott's former interest in herself . 
She discovered that Carol was not aware that he had ever touched another woman's hand . 
Carol was an amusing , naive , curiously learned child . 
When she came home , after supper with the Kennicotts and Guy Pollock , she had a sudden and rather pleasant backsliding from devotion . 
She bustled into her room , she slammed her hat on the bed , and chattered , I don't CARE ! I'm a lot like her except a few years older . 
I'm light and quick , too , and I can talk just as well as she can , and I'm sure Men are such fools . 
I'd be ten times as sweet to make love to as that dreamy baby . 
And I AM as good looking ! But as she sat on the bed and stared at her thin thighs , defiance oozed away . 
She mourned No. I'm not . 
Dear God , how we fool ourselves ! I pretend I'm spiritual . 
I pretend my legs are graceful . 
I hate it ! I hate that impertinent young woman ! A selfish cat , taking his love for granted . 
I don't think she ought to be so friendly with Guy Pollock . 
This last facet of Vida's thought was the one which , after a year , was most often turned to the light . 
Vida was , and always would be , a reformer , a liberal . 
She believed that details could excitingly be altered , but that things in general were comely and kind and immutable . 
After years of intimacy it was this unexpressed opposition more than the fancied loss of Kennicott's love which held Vida irritably fascinated . 
But the birth of Hugh revived the transcendental emotion . 
She was indignant that Carol should not be utterly fulfilled in having borne Kennicott's child . 
She recalled certain other women who had come from the Outside and had not appreciated Gopher Prairie . 
The woman was positively known to have worn handkerchiefs in her bodice as padding oh , the town had simply roared at her . 
Of course the rector and she were got rid of in a few months . 
Vida insisted that she loved Carol , but with some satisfaction she compared her to these traducers of the town . 
II Vida had enjoyed Raymie Wutherspoon's singing in the Episcopal choir she had thoroughly reviewed the weather with him at Methodist sociables and in the Bon Ton . 
But she did not really know him till she moved to Mrs. Gurrey's boarding house . 
It was five years after her affair with Kennicott . 
She was thirty nine , Raymie perhaps a year younger . 
She said to him , and sincerely , My ! You can do anything , with your brains and tact and that heavenly voice . 
You were so good in The Girl from Kankakee . 
You made me feel terribly stupid . 
If you'd gone on the stage , I believe you'd be just as good as anybody in Minneapolis . 
But still , I'm not sorry you stuck to business . 
It's such a constructive career . 
Do you really think so ? yearned Raymie , across the apple sauce . 
It was the first time that either of them had found a dependable intellectual companionship . 
They sat opposite , and they sat late . 
Folks ought to appreciate lovely things , but just the same , they got to be practical and they got to look at things in a practical way . 
Vida had once beheld Raymie as a thin man with spectacles , mournful drawn out face , and colorless stiff hair . 
She began to call him Ray , and to bounce in defense of his unselfishness and thoughtfulness every time Juanita Haydock or Rita Gould giggled about him at the Jolly Seventeen . 
On a Sunday afternoon of late autumn they walked down to Lake Minniemashie . 
Ray said that he would like to see the ocean it must be a grand sight it must be much grander than a lake , even a great big lake . 
Vida had seen it , she stated modestly she had seen it on a summer trip to Cape Cod . 
It was a wonderful trip . 
So many points of interest through Massachusetts historical . 
There's Lexington where we turned back the redcoats , and Longfellow's home at Cambridge , and Cape Cod just everything fishermen and whale ships and sand dunes and everything . 
She wished that she had a little cane to carry . 
He broke off a willow branch . 
My , you're strong ! she said . 
I wish there was a Y. M. C. A. here , so I could take up regular exercise . 
I used to think I could do pretty good acrobatics , if I had a chance . 
You're unusually lithe , for a large man . 
Oh no , not so very . 
She stared at the mud browned chilly water , the floating gray reeds . 
You look so thoughtful , he said . 
She threw out her hands . 
I am ! Will you kindly tell me what's the use of anything ! Oh , don't mind me . 
I'm a moody old hen . 
Tell me about your plan for getting a partnership in the Bon Ton . 
I do think you're right Harry Haydock and that mean old Simons ought to give you one . 
He hymned the old unhappy wars in which he had been Achilles and the mellifluous Nestor , yet gone his righteous ways unheeded by the cruel kings . 
I think a fellow is awful if a lady goes on a walk with him and she can't trust him and he tries to flirt with her and all . 
I'm sure you're highly trustworthy ! she snapped , and she sprang up without his aid . 
Then , smiling excessively , Uh don't you think Carol sometimes fails to appreciate Dr . 
She persuaded him not to wear the small bow ties which made him look like an elongated Sunday School scholar . 
Once she burst out Ray , I could shake you ! Do you know you're too apologetic ? You always appreciate other people too much . 
You fuss over Carol Kennicott when she has some crazy theory that we all ought to turn anarchists or live on figs and nuts or something . 
And you listen when Harry Haydock tries to show off and talk about turnovers and credits and things you know lots better than he does . 
Look folks in the eye ! Glare at 'em ! Talk deep ! You're the smartest man in town , if you only knew it . 
You ARE ! He could not believe it . 
He kept coming back to her for confirmation . 
They were sitting on the squat yellow satin settee in the boarding house parlor . 
As Ray reannounced that he simply wouldn't stand it many more years if Harry didn't give him a partnership , his gesticulating hand touched Vida's shoulders . 
Oh , excuse me ! he pleaded . 
Well , I think I must be running up to my room . 
Headache , she said briefly . 
IV Ray and she had stopped in at Dyer's for a hot chocolate on their way home from the movies , that March evening . 
She peeped through the glass at the perfume boxes of black and gold and citron in the hollow table . 
She looked about at shelves of red rubber water bottles , pale yellow sponges , wash rags with blue borders , hair brushes of polished cherry backs . 
She shook her head like a nervous medium coming out of a trance , stared at him unhappily , demanded Why should I stay here ? And I must make up my mind . 
Time to renew our teaching contracts for next year . 
I think I'll go teach in some other town . 
Everybody here is tired of me . 
I might as well go . 
Before folks come out and SAY they're tired of me . 
I have to decide tonight . 
I might as well Oh , no matter . 
She sprang up , ignoring his wail of Vida ! Wait ! Sit down ! Gosh ! I'm flabbergasted ! Gee ! Vida ! She marched out . 
While he was paying his check she got ahead . 
Oh , don't ! Don't ! What does it matter ? she begged . 
She was sobbing , her soft wrinkly lids soaked with tears . 
Who cares for my affection or help ? I might as well drift on , forgotten . 
O Ray , please don't hold me . 
I'll just decide not to renew my contract here , and and drift way off His hand was steady on her shoulder . 
She dropped her head , rubbed the back of his hand with her cheek . 
They were married in June . 
V They took the Ole Jenson house . 
It's small , said Vida , but it's got the dearest vegetable garden , and I love having time to get near to Nature for once . 
Though she became Vida Wutherspoon technically , and though she certainly had no ideals about the independence of keeping her name , she continued to be known as Vida Sherwin . 
She had resigned from the school , but she kept up one class in English . 
She exploded into self confidence and happiness her draining thoughts were by marriage turned into energy . 
Before Harry could answer she threatened that Ray and she would start a rival shop . 
I'll clerk behind the counter myself , and a Certain Party is all ready to put up the money . 
She rather wondered who the Certain Party was . 
Ray was made a one sixth partner . 
He became a glorified floor walker , greeting the men with new poise , no longer coyly subservient to pretty women . 
The only remnant of Vida's identification of herself with Carol was a jealousy when she saw Kennicott and Ray together , and reflected that some people might suppose that Kennicott was his superior . 
She was sure that Carol thought so , and she wanted to shriek , You needn't try to gloat ! I wouldn't have your pokey old husband . 
He hasn't one single bit of Ray's spiritual nobility . 
It is this which puzzles the long shoreman about the clerk , the Londoner about the bushman . 
It was this which puzzled Carol in regard to the married Vida . 
But after detached brown years in boarding houses , Vida was hungry for housework , for the most pottering detail of it . 
She had no maid , nor wanted one . 
She cooked , baked , swept , washed supper cloths , with the triumph of a chemist in a new laboratory . 
To her the hearth was veritably the altar . 
When she went shopping she hugged the cans of soup , and she bought a mop or a side of bacon as though she were preparing for a reception . 
She knelt beside a bean sprout and crooned , I raised this with my own hands I brought this new life into the world . 
I love her for being so happy , Carol brooded . 
I ought to be that way . 
I worship the baby , but the housework Oh , I suppose I'm fortunate so much better off than farm women on a new clearing , or people in a slum . 
It has not yet been recorded that any human being has gained a very large or permanent contentment from meditation upon the fact that he is better off than others . 
Except when Hugh was vigorously naughty , or whiney , or laughing , or saying I like my chair with thrilling maturity , she was always enfeebled by loneliness . 
She no longer felt superior about that misfortune . 
She would gladly have been converted to Vida's satisfaction in Gopher Prairie and mopping the floor . 
II Carol drove through an astonishing number of books from the public library and from city shops . 
Kennicott was at first uncomfortable over her disconcerting habit of buying them . 
The authors whom she read were most of them frightfully annoyed by the Vida Sherwins . 
From them she got the same confused desire which the million other women felt the same determination to be class conscious without discovering the class of which she was to be conscious . 
Certainly her reading precipitated her observations of Main Street , of Gopher Prairie and of the several adjacent Gopher Prairies which she had seen on drives with Kennicott . 
Vida had come to the house for the night . 
She helped in putting Hugh to bed , sputtering the while about his soft skin . 
Then they talked till midnight . 
What Carol said that evening , what she was passionately thinking , was also emerging in the minds of women in ten thousand Gopher Prairies . 
Her formulations were not pat solutions but visions of a tragic futility . 
But they were definite enough , and indignant enough . 
III In reading popular stories and seeing plays , asserted Carol , she had found only two traditions of the American small town . 
The first tradition , repeated in scores of magazines every month , is that the American village remains the one sure abode of friendship , honesty , and clean sweet marriageable girls . 
This altogether admirable tradition rules the vaudeville stage , facetious illustrators , and syndicated newspaper humor , but out of actual life it passed forty years ago . 
flee to the cities with agility and , despite the fictional tradition , resolutely stay there , seldom returning even for holidays . 
The most protesting patriots of the towns leave them in old age , if they can afford it , and go to live in California or in the cities . 
The reason , Carol insisted , is not a whiskered rusticity . 
It is nothing so amusing ! It is an unimaginatively standardized background , a sluggishness of speech and manners , a rigid ruling of the spirit by the desire to appear respectable . 
the contentment of the quiet dead , who are scornful of the living for their restless walking . 
It is negation canonized as the one positive virtue . 
It is the prohibition of happiness . 
It is slavery self sought and self defended . 
It is dullness made God . 
IV She had inquired as to the effect of this dominating dullness upon foreigners . 
She remembered the feeble exotic quality to be found in the first generation Scandinavians she recalled the Norwegian Fair at the Lutheran Church , to which Bea had taken her . 
For the first time in Gopher Prairie Carol had found novelty . 
She had reveled in the mild foreignness of it . 
Their sons finished the process . 
In ready made clothes and ready made high school phrases they sank into propriety , and the sound American customs had absorbed without one trace of pollution another alien invasion . 
And along with these foreigners , she felt herself being ironed into glossy mediocrity , and she rebelled , in fear . 
The respectability of the Gopher Prairies , said Carol , is reinforced by vows of poverty and chastity in the matter of knowledge . 
Except for half a dozen in each town the citizens are proud of that achievement of ignorance which it is so easy to come by . 
To be intellectual or artistic or , in their own word , to be highbrow , is to be priggish and of dubious virtue . 
The editor and the rector preach at them . 
The cloud of serene ignorance submerges them in unhappiness and futility . 
V Here Vida observed , Yes well Do you know , I've always thought that Ray would have made a wonderful rector . 
He has what I call an essentially religious soul . 
In France or Tibet quite as much as in Wyoming or Indiana these timidities are inherent in isolation . 
Such a society functions admirably in the large production of cheap automobiles , dollar watches , and safety razors . 
And such a society , such a nation , is determined by the Gopher Prairies . 
The greatest manufacturer is but a busier Sam Clark , and all the rotund senators and presidents are village lawyers and bankers grown nine feet tall . 
It picks at information which will visibly procure money or social distinction . 
It plays at cards on greasy oil cloth in a shanty , and does not know that prophets are walking and talking on the terrace . 
If all the provincials were as kindly as Champ Perry and Sam Clark there would be no reason for desiring the town to seek great traditions . 
VII She had sought to be definite in analyzing the surface ugliness of the Gopher Prairies . 
The universal similarity that is the physical expression of the philosophy of dull safety . 
Nine tenths of the American towns are so alike that it is the completest boredom to wander from one to another . 
The new , more conscious houses are alike in their very attempts at diversity the same bungalows , the same square houses of stucco or tapestry brick . 
If Kennicott were snatched from Gopher Prairie and instantly conveyed to a town leagues away , he would not realize it . 
in the same drug store he would see the same young man serving the same ice cream soda to the same young woman with the same magazines and phonograph records under her arm . 
Not till he had climbed to his office and found another sign on the door , another Dr . 
Kennicott inside , would he understand that something curious had presumably happened . 
It is a parasitic Greek civilization minus the civilization . 
There we are then , said Carol . 
The remedy ? Is there any ? Criticism , perhaps , for the beginning of the beginning . 
Oh , there's nothing that attacks the Tribal God Mediocrity that doesn't help a little . 
and probably there's nothing that helps very much . 
Perhaps some day the farmers will build and own their market towns . 
But I'm afraid I haven't any reform program . 
Not any more ! The trouble is spiritual , and no League or Party can enact a preference for gardens rather than dumping grounds . 
Or else I wouldn't fume so . 
I've learned that Gopher Prairie isn't just an eruption on the prairie , as I thought first , but as large as New York . 
In New York I wouldn't know more than forty or fifty people , and I know that many here . 
Go on ! Say what you're thinking . 
Well , my dear , if I DID take all your notions seriously , it would be pretty discouraging . 
I'm afraid you think so . 
I'll admit we lack some things . 
Maybe our theater isn't as good as shows in Paris . 
All right ! I don't want to see any foreign culture suddenly forced on us whether it's street planning or table manners or crazy communistic ideas . 
Vida sketched what she termed practical things that will make a happier and prettier town , but that do belong to our life , that actually are being done . 
Carol's answer was fantastic and nebulous enough Yes . 
But if I could put through all those reforms at once , I'd still want startling , exotic things . 
Life is comfortable and clean enough here already . 
What it needs is to be less secure , more eager . 
I just meant I know . 
Be good for my soul . 
Isn't it funny here we all are me trying to be good for Gopher Prairie's soul , and Gopher Prairie trying to be good for my soul . 
What are my other sins ? Oh , there's plenty of them . 
but , thank heaven , for a while we'll manage to keep busy with our lawns and pavements ! You see , these things really are coming ! The Thanatopsis is getting somewhere . 
has persuaded the railroad to share the expense of a parked space at the station , to do away with that vacant lot . 
I'm sorry , but I do think there's something essentially cheap in your attitude . 
If you must know , you're not a sound reformer at all . 
And you give up too easily . 
You want perfection all at once . 
Do you know what the finest thing you've done is aside from bringing Hugh into the world ? It was the help you gave Dr . 
Will during baby welfare week . 
You didn't demand that each baby be a philosopher and artist before you weighed him , as you do with the rest of us . 
And now I'm afraid perhaps I'll hurt you . 
We didn't call on you because you would never stand the pound pound pounding year after year without one bit of encouragement . 
And we've won ! I've got the promise of everybody who counts that just as soon as war conditions permit , they'll vote the bonds for the schoolhouse . 
And we'll have a wonderful building lovely brown brick , with big windows , and agricultural and manual training departments . 
When we get it , that'll be my answer to all your theories ! I'm glad . 
And I'm ashamed I haven't had any part in getting it . 
It was Vida who conquered . 
The fact that she had been left out of the campaign for the new schoolbuilding disconcerted Carol . 
She laid her dreams of perfection aside . 
When Vida asked her to take charge of a group of Camp Fire Girls , she obeyed , and had definite pleasure out of the Indian dances and ritual and costumes . 
She went more regularly to the Thanatopsis . 
Planting led her to botanizing . 
She never got much farther than recognizing the tiger lily and the wild rose , but she rediscovered Hugh . 
What does the buttercup say , mummy ? he cried , his hand full of straggly grasses , his cheek gilded with pollen . 
She knelt to embrace him she affirmed that he made life more than full she was altogether reconciled . 
But she awoke at night to hovering death . 
She crept away from the hump of bedding that was Kennicott tiptoed into the bathroom and , by the mirror in the door of the medicine cabinet , examined her pallid face . 
Wasn't she growing visibly older in ratio as Vida grew plumper and younger ? Wasn't her nose sharper ? Wasn't her neck granulated ? She stared and choked . 
I am I ! I'm not content to leave the sea and the ivory towers to others . 
Raymie was diligent and rather strong . 
He came out a first lieutenant of infantry , and was one of the earliest sent abroad . 
Carol grew definitely afraid of Vida as Vida transferred the passion which had been released in marriage to the cause of the war as she lost all tolerance . 
When Carol was touched by the desire for heroism in Raymie and tried tactfully to express it , Vida made her feel like an impertinent child . 
By enlistment and draft , the sons of Lyman Cass , Nat Hicks , Sam Clark joined the army . 
But most of the soldiers were the sons of German and Swedish farmers unknown to Carol . 
McGanum became captains in the medical corps , and were stationed at camps in Iowa and Georgia . 
They were the only officers , besides Raymie , from the Gopher Prairie district . 
Kennicott was forty two now the only youngish doctor left in a radius of eighteen miles . 
Westlake , who loved comfort like a cat , protestingly rolled out at night for country calls , and hunted through his collar box for his G. A. R. button . 
Carol did not quite know what she thought about Kennicott's going . 
Certainly she was no Spartan wife . 
She knew that he wanted to go she knew that this longing was always in him , behind his unchanged trudging and remarks about the weather . 
She felt for him an admiring affection and she was sorry that she had nothing more than affection . 
Cy Bogart was the spectacular warrior of the town . 
Cy was no longer the weedy boy who had sat in the loft speculating about Carol's egotism and the mysteries of generation . 
His face was at once peach bloomed and pimply . 
Cy was to be heard publishing it abroad that if he couldn't get the Widow Bogart's permission to enlist , he'd run away and enlist without it . 
Cy got much reputation by whipping a farmboy named Adolph Pochbauer for being a damn hyphenated German . 
This was the younger Pochbauer , who was killed in the Argonne , while he was trying to bring the body of his Yankee captain back to the lines . 
At this time Cy Bogart was still dwelling in Gopher Prairie and planning to go to war . 
Only she did not find it . 
Their references to the war touched atrocities only . 
She herself was punctual , and efficient at making dressings , but she could not , like Mrs. Lyman Cass and Mrs. Bogart , fill the dressings with hate for enemies . 
Some of us we have given up so much , and we're glad to . 
At least we expect that you others sha'n't try to be witty at our expense . 
Well , have you become a patriot ? Eh ? Sure , they'll bring democracy the democracy of death . 
Yes , sure , in every war since the Garden of Eden the workmen have gone out to fight each other for perfectly good reasons handed to them by their bosses . 
Now me , I'm wise . 
I'm so wise that I know I don't know anything about the war . 
For two weeks there were rumors . 
I'm to go to Washington as a dollar a year man for the government , in the aviation motor section , and tell them how much I don't know about carburetors . 
I'll land in G. P. on June , on No. from Mpls . 
Tell Bert Tybee to save me a glass of beer . 
Carol saw Bresnahan laughing down at them from the train vestibule big , immaculate , overjawed , with the eye of an executive . 
Bresnahan looked into her eyes , and his hand shake was warm , unhurried . 
Carol noted that though Bresnahan wore spats and a stick , no small boy jeered . 
She decided , I must have Will get a double breasted blue coat and a wing collar and a dotted bow tie like his . 
That evening , when Kennicott was trimming the grass along the walk with sheep shears , Bresnahan rolled up , alone . 
And rules are rules , these days . 
Kids get routed through the shop like a motor . 
But look here , sister I'm one great hand at busting rules . 
Come on now , let Uncle Perce have a look at him . 
She flushed she was alarmed by the ease with which the big city man invaded her guarded personality . 
She was glad , in retreat , to scamper ahead of the two men up stairs to the hall room in which Hugh slept . 
He stared at the stranger , in a manner of patient dismissal . 
He explained confidentially to Carol , Daddy wouldn't let it be morning yet . 
What does the pillow say ? Bresnahan dropped his arm caressingly on Carol's shoulder he pronounced , My Lord , you're a lucky girl to have a fine young husk like that . 
I figure Will knew what he was doing when he persuaded you to take a chance on an old bum like him ! They tell me you come from St . 
We're going to get you to come to Boston some day . 
He leaned over the bed . 
Young man , you're the slickest sight I've seen this side of Boston . 
With your permission , may we present you with a slight token of our regard and appreciation of your long service ? He held out a red rubber Pierrot . 
Hugh remarked , Gimme it , hid it under the bedclothes , and stared at Bresnahan as though he had never seen the man before . 
They stood in inane suspense till Bresnahan led them out , rumbling , How about planning a fishing trip , Will ? He remained for half an hour . 
Always he told Carol what a charming person she was always he looked at her knowingly . 
He probably would make a woman fall in love with him . 
But it wouldn't last a week . 
I'd get tired of his confounded buoyancy . 
He makes me rude to him in self defense . 
Oh yes , he is glad to be here . 
He's so good an actor that he convinces his own self . 
I'd HATE him in Boston . 
He'd have all the obvious big city things . 
Order a clever dinner at a smart restaurant . 
Drawing room decorated by the best firm but the pictures giving him away . 
I'd rather talk to Guy Pollock in his dusty office . 
How I lie ! His arm coaxed my shoulder and his eyes dared me not to admire him . 
I'd be afraid of him . 
Oh , the inconceivable egotistic imagination of women ! All this stew of analysss . 
They drove forty miles to the lake in Elder's new Cadillac . 
Carol was a little resentful of the manner in which the men assumed that they did not care to fish . 
I don't want to go with them , but I would like the privilege of refusing . 
The lunch was long and pleasant . 
It was in the matter of the war that he most favored and thrilled them . 
Yes , sir , there'd be two million fully equipped Spanish soldiers fighting with us in France in one month now . 
Some surprise for Germany , all right ! How about the prospects for revolution in Germany ? reverently asked Kennicott . 
The authority grunted , Nothing to it . 
The one thing you can bet on is that no matter what happens to the German people , win or lose , they'll stick by the Kaiser till hell freezes over . 
I got that absolutely straight , from a fellow who's on the inside of the inside in Washington . 
At that , I don't know as it's so bad . 
The Kaiser and the Junkers keep a firm hand on a lot of these red agitators who'd be worse than a king if they could get control . 
I'm terribly interested in this uprising that overthrew the Czar in Russia , suggested Carol . 
She had finally been conquered by the man's wizard knowledge of affairs . 
Kennicott apologized for her Carrie's nuts about this Russian revolution . 
Is there much to it , Perce ? There is not ! Bresnahan said flatly . 
I can speak by the book there . 
The others had looked vacant at the mention of a country so far away as Russia . 
had said the same thing in the same words . 
She was certain that Bresnahan saw through her when she pretended not to hear Kennicott's invitation to join a game of cribbage . 
She feared the comments he might make she was irritated by her fear . 
She said to herself , As though I cared whether I'm seen with this fat phonograph ! and simultaneously , Everybody has noticed how much Will and I are playing with Mr. Bresnahan . 
The town was full of his stories , his friendliness , his memory for names , his clothes , his trout flies , his generosity . 
He had given a hundred dollars to Father Klubok the priest , and a hundred to the Reverend Mr. Zitterel the Baptist minister , for Americanization work . 
At the Bon Ton , Carol heard Nat Hicks the tailor exulting Old Perce certainly pulled a good one on this fellow Bjornstam that always is shooting off his mouth . 
He's supposed to of settled down since he got married , but Lord , those fellows that think they know it all , they never change . 
Well , the Red Swede got the grand razz handed to him , all right . 
Well , he says , I've been looking for a man so useful sweeping floors that I could pay him four dollars a day . 
Want the job , my friend ? Ha , ha , ha ! Say , you know how lippy Bjornstam is ? Well for once he didn't have a thing to say . 
She wanted to snub him . 
Thanks so much , but I'm being maternal . 
Bring him along ! Bring him along ! Bresnahan was out of the seat , stalking up the sidewalk , and the rest of her protests and dignities were feeble . 
She did not bring Hugh along . 
Bresnahan was silent for a mile , in words , But he looked at her as though he meant her to know that he understood everything she thought . 
She observed how deep was his chest . 
Lovely fields over there , he said . 
You really like them ? There's no profit in them . 
Sister , you can't get away with it . 
You consider me a big bluff . 
Well , maybe I am . 
But so are you , my dear and pretty enough so that I'd try to make love to you , if I weren't afraid you'd slap me . 
Score two ! But his chuckle was not so rotund , and he was very attentive to the ammeter . 
In a moment he was cautiously attacking That's a wonderful boy , Will Kennicott . 
Great work these country practitioners are doing . 
These crack specialists , the young scientific fellows , they're so cocksure and so wrapped up in their laboratories that they miss the human element . 
Except in the case of a few freak diseases that no respectable human being would waste his time having , it's the old doc that keeps a community well , mind and body . 
And strikes me that Will is one of the steadiest and clearest headed counter practitioners I've ever met . 
Eh ? I'm sure he is . 
He's a servant of reality . 
All of that , whatever that is . 
Say , child , you don't care a whole lot for Gopher Prairie , if I'm not mistaken . 
There's where you're missing a big chance . 
There's nothing to these cities . 
Believe me , I KNOW ! This is a good town , as they go . 
You're lucky to be here . 
I wish I could shy on ! Very well , why don't you ? Huh ? Why Lord can't get away fr You don't have to stay . 
I do ! So I want to change it . 
They quote you , and go on believing that they live in paradise , and She clenched her fist . 
The incredible dullness of it ! Suppose you were right . 
Even so , don't you think you waste a lot of thundering on one poor scared little town ? Kind of mean ! I tell you it's dull . 
DULL ! The folks don't find it dull . 
These couples like the Haydocks have a high old time dances and cards They don't . 
Almost every one here is . 
Vacuousness and bad manners and spiteful gossip that's what I hate . 
Those things course they're here . 
So are they in Boston ! And every place else ! Why , the faults you find in this town are simply human nature , and never will be changed . 
can find one another and play . 
But they seem to struggle along somehow ! They don't know what they miss . 
And anybody can endure anything . 
Look at men in mines and in prisons . 
He drew up on the south shore of Lake Minniemashie . 
He glanced across the reeds reflected on the water , the quiver of wavelets like crumpled tinfoil , the distant shores patched with dark woods , silvery oats and deep yellow wheat . 
Sis Carol , you're a darling girl , but you're difficult . 
Know what I think ? Yes . 
opinion is that you like to be different . 
You like to think you're peculiar . 
There's always about a million young women just out of college who want to teach their grandmothers how to suck eggs . 
How proud you are of that homely rustic metaphor ! You use it at banquets' and directors' meetings , and boast of your climb from a humble homestead . 
Huh ! You may have my number . 
Let me tell you a fable . 
Imagine a cavewoman complaining to her mate . 
Her man protests , But it can't all be wrong ! and he thinks he has reduced her to absurdity . 
Now you assume that a world which produces a Percy Bresnahan and a Velvet Motor Company must be civilized . 
It is ? Aren't we only about half way along in barbarism ? I suggest Mrs. Bogart as a test . 
And we'll continue in barbarism just as long as people as nearly intelligent as you continue to defend things as they are because they are . 
You're a fair spieler , child . 
He preached his gospel love of outdoors , Playing the Game , loyalty to friends . 
had a power which made her wish to placate his company of well fed , speed loving administrators . 
His large hands , sensual lips , easy voice supported his self confidence . 
He made her feel young and soft as Kennicott had once made her feel . 
She had nothing to say when he bent his powerful head and experimented , My dear , I'm sorry I'm going away from this town . 
You'd be a darling child to play with . 
You ARE pretty ! Some day in Boston I'll show you how we buy a lunch . 
Well , hang it , got to be starting back . 
That admiration led her to study Kennicott , to tear at the shroud of intimacy , to perceive the strangeness of the most familiar . 
CHAPTER XXIV I ALL that midsummer month Carol was sensitive to Kennicott . 
Always she repeated that he had been heroically patient in his desire to join the army . 
She made much of her consoling affection for him in little things . 
But at the highest he was to her another Hugh , without the glamor of Hugh's unknown future . 
There was , late in June , a day of heat lightning . 
Because of the work imposed by the absence of the other doctors the Kennicotts had not moved to the lake cottage but remained in town , dusty and irritable . 
, Carol was vexed by the assumption of the youthful clerk , recently come from the farm , that he had to be neighborly and rude . 
He was no more brusquely familiar than a dozen other clerks of the town , but her nerves were heat scorched . 
Try some of the new wienies we got in . 
My dear young man , it is not your duty to instruct me in housekeeping , and it doesn't particularly concern me what the Haydocks condescend to approve ! He was hurt . 
He hastily wrapped up the leprous fragment of fish he gaped as she trailed out . 
She lamented , I shouldn't have spoken so . 
He doesn't know when he is being rude . 
Her repentance was not proof against Uncle Whittier when she stopped in at his grocery for salt and a package of safety matches . 
Some folks in this town think a storekeeper ain't got nothing to do but chase out 'phone orders . 
That dress you got on looks kind of low in the neck to me . 
May be decent and modest I suppose I'm old fashioned but I never thought much of showing the whole town a woman's bust ! Hee , hee , hee ! . 
Sage ? Just out of it . 
Lemme sell you some other spices . 
She crept into Dave Dyer's . 
As she went dragging through the prickly hot street she reflected that a citizen of Gopher Prairie does not have jests he has a jest . 
Every cold morning for five winters Lyman Cass had remarked , Fair to middlin' chilly get worse before it gets better . 
She knew every house front , every street crossing , every billboard , every tree , every dog . 
She knew every blackened banana skin and empty cigarette box in the gutters . 
She sat on the porch , rocking , fanning , twitchy with Hugh's whining . 
Why don't you put on your nice Palm Beach suit , and take off that hideous vest ? she complained . 
Too hot to go up stairs . 
She realized that for perhaps a year she had not definitely looked at her husband . 
She regarded his table manners . 
He violently chased fragments of fish about his plate with a knife and licked the knife after gobbling them . 
She asserted , I'm ridiculous . 
What do these things matter ! Don't be so simple ! But she knew that to her they did matter , these solecisms and mixed tenses of the table . 
She realized that they found little to say that , incredibly , they were like the talked out couples whom she had pitied at restaurants . 
Bresnahan would have spouted in a lively , exciting , unreliable manner . 
She realized that Kennicott's clothes were seldom pressed . 
His coat was wrinkled his trousers would flap at the knees when he arose . 
His shoes were unblacked , and they were of an elderly shapelessness . 
He refused to wear soft hats cleaved to a hard derby , as a symbol of virility and prosperity and sometimes he forgot to take it off in the house . 
She peeped at his cuffs . 
They were frayed in prickles of starched linen . 
only three times a week . 
This morning had not been one of the three times . 
Yet he was vain of his new turn down collars and sleek ties he often spoke of the sloppy dressing of Dr . 
McGanum and he laughed at old men who wore detachable cuffs or Gladstone collars . 
Carol did not care much for the creamed codfish that evening . 
She noted that his nails were jagged and ill shaped from his habit of cutting them with a pocket knife and despising a nail file as effeminate and urban . 
That they were invariably clean , that his were the scoured fingers of the surgeon , made his stubborn untidiness the more jarring . 
They were wise hands , kind hands , but they were not the hands of love . 
She remembered him in the days of courtship . 
He had tried to please her , then , had touched her by sheepishly wearing a colored band on his straw hat . 
that she was to point out his every fault had insisted once , as they sat in the secret place beneath the walls of Fort Snelling She shut the door on her thoughts . 
But it WAS a shame that She nervously pushed away her cake and stewed apricots . 
Some of the fellows coming in to play poker this evening . 
Suppose we could have some crackers and cheese and beer ? She nodded . 
He might have mentioned it before . 
Oh well , it's his house . 
The poker party straggled in Sam Clark , Jack Elder , Dave Dyer , Jim Howland . 
No one suggested that she join them . 
She told herself that it was her own fault , because she was not more friendly but she remembered that they never asked Mrs. Sam Clark to play . 
Bresnahan would have asked her . 
She sat in the living room , glancing across the hall at the men as they humped over the dining table . 
The firmness with which the men mouthed their cigars made the lower part of their faces expressionless , heavy , unappealing . 
They were like politicians cynically dividing appointments . 
She slipped back into brooding upon the habituality of the house . 
Kennicott was as fixed in routine as an isolated old man . 
Because at some more flexible period he had advanced from oranges to grape fruit he considered himself an epicure . 
Twenty times had Kennicott sighed over the fact that Bea had broken the other platter the medium sized one . 
Carol had done her best by the kitchen painted it white , put up curtains , replaced a six year old calendar by a color print . 
She had hoped for tiling , and a kerosene range for summer cooking , but Kennicott always postponed these expenses . 
She was better acquainted with the utensils in the kitchen than with Vida Sherwin or Guy Pollock . 
II She was ignored by the males till midnight . 
Her husband called , Suppose we could have some eats , Carrie ? As she passed through the dining room the men smiled on her , belly smiles . 
None of them noticed her while she was serving the crackers and cheese and sardines and beer . 
They were determining the exact psychology of Dave Dyer in standing pat , two hours before . 
When they were gone she said to Kennicott , Your friends have the manners of a barroom . 
They expect me to wait on them like a servant . 
They're not so much interested in me as they would be in a waiter , because they don't have to tip me . 
Unfortunately ! Well , good night . 
So rarely did she nag in this petty , hot weather fashion that he was astonished rather than angry . 
Hey ! Wait ! What's the idea ? I must say I don't get you . 
He was too shocked to go on with his duties of locking the front door and winding his watch and the clock . 
Bresnahan ! I'm sick of him ! She meant nothing in particular . 
But just the same , I won't stand your jumping on Perce . 
But just the same , I'll pay it . 
Only , I'm not idiot enough to pay more than the government makes me pay , and Sam and I were just figuring out whether all automobile expenses oughn't to be exemptions . 
I'll take a lot off you , Carrie , but I don't propose for one second to stand your saying I'm not patriotic . 
You know mighty well and good that I've tried to get away and join the army . 
And at the beginning of the whole fracas I said I've said right along that we ought to have entered the war the minute Germany invaded Belgium . 
You don't get me at all . 
You can't appreciate a man's work . 
For the first time they had failed to make peace . 
There are two races of people , only two , and they live side by side . 
His calls mine neurotic' mine calls his stupid . 
We'll never understand each other , never and it's madness for us to debate to lie together in a hot bed in a creepy room enemies , yoked . 
III It clarified in her the longing for a place of her own . 
While it's so hot , I think I'll sleep in the spare room , she said next day . 
He was cheerful and kindly . 
The room was filled with a lumbering double bed and a cheap pine bureau . 
Kennicott slowly understood that she meant to keep up her seclusion . 
In his queries , Changing the whole room ? Putting your books in there ? she caught his dismay . 
But it was so easy , once her door was closed , to shut out his worry . 
That hurt her the ease of forgetting him . 
Aunt Bessie Smail sleuthed out this anarchy . 
She yammered , Why , Carrie , you ain't going to sleep all alone by yourself ? I don't believe in that . 
Married folks should have the same room , of course ! Don't go getting silly notions . 
No telling what a thing like that might lead to . 
Suppose I up and told your Uncle Whit that I wanted a room of my own ! Carol spoke of recipes for corn pudding . 
She had made an afternoon call on Mrs. Westlake . 
She was for the first time invited up stairs , and found the suave old woman sewing in a white and mahogany room with a small bed . 
Oh , do you have your own royal apartments , and the doctor his ? Carol hinted . 
Indeed I do ! The doctor says it's bad enough to have to stand my temper at meals . 
Do Mrs. Westlake looked at her sharply . 
Why , don't you do the same thing ? I've been thinking about it . 
Carol laughed in an embarrassed way . 
Yes ! Carol said it in a gasp , her hands twisted together . 
She had enough self control to confine herself to , Yes . 
Men ! The dear blundering souls , we do have to get off and laugh at them . 
Not that you have to laugh at Dr . 
After such a disclosure what could Carol do but return the courtesy by remarking that as for Kennicott , he wasn't romantic enough the darling . 
, her opinion of the library board , just what Kennicott had said about Mrs. Carthal's diabetes , and what Kennicott thought of the several surgeons in the Cities . 
She went home soothed by confession , inspirited by finding a new friend . 
IV The tragicomedy of the domestic situation . 
Oscarina went back home to help on the farm , and Carol had a succession of maids , with gaps between . 
The lack of servants was becoming one of the most cramping problems of the prairie town . 
Increasingly the farmers' daughters rebelled against village dullness , and against the unchanged attitude of the Juanitas toward hired girls . 
They went off to city kitchens , or to city shops and factories , that they might be free and even human after hours . 
The Jolly Seventeen were delighted at Carol's desertion by the loyal Oscarina . 
They reminded her that she had said , I don't have any trouble with maids see how Oscarina stays on . 
She doubted the convenience and , as a natural sequent , the sanctity of the monogamous and separate home which she had regarded as the basis of all decent life . 
She considered her doubts vicious . 
She refused to remember how many of the women of the Jolly Seventeen nagged their husbands and were nagged by them . 
She energetically did not whine to Kennicott . 
But her eyes ached she was not the girl in breeches and a flannel shirt who had cooked over a camp fire in the Colorado mountains five years ago . 
Her ambition was to get to bed at nine her strongest emotion was resentment over rising at half past six to care for Hugh . 
The back of her neck ached as she got out of bed . 
She was cynical about the joys of a simple laborious life . 
She understood why workmen and workmen's wives are not grateful to their kind employers . 
At mid morning , when she was momentarily free from the ache in her neck and back , she was glad of the reality of work . 
The hours were living and nimble . 
But she had no desire to read the eloquent little newspaper essays in praise of labor which are daily written by the white browed journalistic prophets . 
In cleaning the house she pondered upon the maid's room . 
It was a slant roofed , small windowed hole above the kitchen , oppressive in summer , frigid in winter . 
She saw that while she had been considering herself an unusually good mistress , she had been permitting her friends Bea and Oscarina to live in a sty . 
What's the matter with it ? he growled , as they stood on the perilous stairs dodging up from the kitchen . 
Maybe it ain't any Hotel Radisson parlor , but still , it's so much better than anything these hired girls are accustomed to at home that they think it's fine . 
Seems foolish to spend money when they wouldn't appreciate it . 
He did not go on . 
Daily he returned to the subject of the new house , but as to time and mode he was indefinite . 
She babbled of a low stone house with lattice windows and tulip beds , of colonial brick , of a white frame cottage with green shutters and dormer windows . 
To her enthusiasms he answered , Well , ye es , might be worth thinking about . 
Remember where I put my pipe ? When she pressed him he fidgeted , I don't know seems to me those kind of houses you speak of have been overdone . 
He admitted , Well , yes , maybe it isn't so darn artistic but Matter of fact , though , I don't want a place just like Sam's . 
Maybe I would cut off that fool tower he's got , and I think probably it would look better painted a nice cream color . 
That yellow on Sam's house is too kind of flashy . 
Then there's another kind of house that's mighty nice and substantial looking , with shingles , in a nice brown stain , instead of clapboards seen some in Minneapolis . 
None of my business , but I must say you young folks that'd rather have cakes than potatoes get me riled . 
She reached her room before she became savage . 
Below , dreadfully near , she could hear the broom swish of Aunt Bessie's voice , and the mop pounding of Uncle Whittier's grumble . 
She felt the demand for standardized behavior coming in waves from all the citizens who sat in their sitting rooms watching her with respectable eyes , waiting , demanding , unyielding . 
She snarled , Oh , all right , I'll go ! She powdered her nose , straightened her collar , and coldly marched down stairs . 
The three elders ignored her . 
They had advanced from the new house to agreeable general fussing . 
Aunt Bessie was saying , in a tone like the munching of dry toast I do think Mr. Stowbody ought to have had the rain pipe fixed at our store right away . 
She knew from his taut expression that he was not listening to Aunt Bessie but herding his own thoughts , and that he would interrupt her bluntly . 
He did Will , where c'n I get an extra pair of pants for this coat and vest ? D' want to pay too much . 
Well , guess Nat Hicks could make you up a pair . 
But if I were you , I'd drop into Ike Rifkin's his prices are lower than the Bon Ton's . 
Got the new stove in your office yet ? No , been looking at some at Sam Clark's but Well , y' ought get 't in . 
Don't do to put off getting a stove all summer , and then have it come cold on you in the fall . 
Carol smiled upon them ingratiatingly . 
Do you dears mind if I slip up to bed ? I'm rather tired cleaned the upstairs today . 
She was certain that they were discussing her , and foully forgiving her . 
She lay awake till she heard the distant creak of a bed which indicated that Kennicott had retired . 
It was Kennicott who brought up the matter of the Smails at breakfast . 
With no visible connection he said , Uncle Whit is kind of clumsy , but just the same , he's a pretty wise old coot . 
He's certainly making good with the store . 
Carol smiled , and Kennicott was pleased that she had come to her senses . 
Kennicott made much of erecting it entirely for her and the baby . 
He spoke of closets for her frocks , and a comfy sewing room . 
the plans for the garage , he gave much more attention to a cement floor and a work bench and a gasoline tank than he had to sewing rooms . 
She sat back and was afraid . 
In the present rookery there were odd things a step up from the hall to the dining room , a picturesqueness in the shed and bedraggled lilac bush . 
But the new place would be smooth , standardized , fixed . 
It was probable , now that Kennicott was past forty , and settled , that this would be the last venture he would ever make in building . 
Desperately she wanted to put it off , against the chance of miracles . 
While Kennicott was chattering about a patent swing door for the garage she saw the swing doors of a prison . 
She never voluntarily returned to the project . 
Aggrieved , Kennicott stopped drawing plans , and in ten days the new house was forgotten . 
V Every year since their marriage Carol had longed for a trip through the East . 
Every year Kennicott had talked of attending the American Medical Association convention , and then afterwards we could do the East up brown . 
I know New York clean through spent pretty near a week there but I would like to see New England and all these historic places and have some sea food . 
The weariness of dish washing had increased her desire to go . 
She pictured herself looking at Emerson's manse , bathing in a surf of jade and ivory , wearing a trottoir and a summer fur , meeting an aristocratic Stranger . 
By golly , I feel like a tightwad though , not taking you . 
Through all this restless July after she had tasted Bresnahan's disturbing flavor of travel and gaiety , she wanted to go , but she said nothing . 
They spoke of and postponed a trip to the Twin Cities . 
Toward the end of July he proposed , Say , the Beavers are holding a convention in Joralemon , street fair and everything . 
We might go down tomorrow . 
And I'd like to see Dr . 
Put in the whole day . 
Might help some to make up for our trip . 
Joralemon was a prairie town of the size of Gopher Prairie . 
Their motor was out of order , and there was no passenger train at an early hour . 
They went down by freight train , after the weighty and conversational business of leaving Hugh with Aunt Bessie . 
Carol was exultant over this irregular jaunting . 
It was the first unusual thing , except the glance of Bresnahan , that had happened since the weaning of Hugh . 
They rode in the caboose , the small red cupola topped car jerked along at the end of the train . 
Kennicott played seven up with the conductor and two brakemen . 
Carol liked the blue silk kerchiefs about the brakemen's throats she liked their welcome to her , and their air of friendly independence . 
Since there were no sweating passengers crammed in beside her , she reveled in the train's slowness . 
She was part of these lakes and tawny wheat fields . 
She liked the smell of hot earth and clean grease and the leisurely chug a chug , chug a chug of the trucks was a song of contentment in the sun . 
She pretended that she was going to the Rockies . 
When they reached Joralemon she was radiant with holiday making . 
Her eagerness began to lessen the moment they stopped at a red frame station exactly like the one they had just left at Gopher Prairie , and Kennicott yawned , Right on time . 
Just in time for dinner at the Calibrees' . 
I 'phoned the doctor from G. P. that we'd be here . 
We'll catch the freight that gets in before twelve , I told him . 
He said he'd meet us at the depot and take us right up to the house for dinner . 
Calibree is a good man , and you'll find his wife is a mighty brainy little woman , bright as a dollar . 
By golly , there he is . 
Calibree was a squat , clean shaven , conscientious looking man of forty . 
He was curiously like his own brown painted motor car , with eye glasses for windshield . 
Want you to meet my wife , doctor Carrie , make you 'quainted with Dr . 
Calibree bowed quietly and shook her hand , but before he had finished shaking it he was concentrating upon Kennicott with , Nice to see you , doctor . 
Say , don't let me forget to ask you about what you did in that exopthalmic goiter case that Bohemian woman at Wahkeenyan . 
The two men , on the front seat of the car , chanted goiters and ignored her . 
She did not know it . 
She was trying to feed her illusion of adventure by staring at unfamiliar houses . 
drab cottages , artificial stone bungalows , square painty stolidities with immaculate clapboards and broad screened porches and tidy grass plots . 
She was used to it . 
But the cabbage and Mrs. Calibree's monotonous I don't know what we're coming to with all this difficulty getting hired girls were gumming her eyes with drowsiness . 
Uh I've never uh never looked into it . 
I don't believe much in getting mixed up in politics . 
In the lee of the stonily mature trio Carol proceeded to the street fair which added mundane gaiety to the annual rites of the United and Fraternal Order of Beavers . 
On the motherly shirtwaist of each of their wives was a badge Sir Knight's Lady . 
The Duluth delegation had brought their famous Beaver amateur band , in Zouave costumes of green velvet jacket , blue trousers , and scarlet fez . 
The jolliest aggregation of red blooded , open handed , hustle em up good fellows in the world . 
Joralemon welcomes you to her hospitable city . 
Kennicott read the poster and to Calibree admired , Strong lodge , the Beavers . 
Don't know but what I will , Calibree adumbrated , They're a good bunch . 
See that fellow there that's playing the snare drum ? He's the smartest wholesale grocer in Duluth , they say . 
Guess it would be worth joining . 
Oh say , are you doing much insurance examining ? They went on to the street fair . 
Carol's head ached as she trailed behind the unsmiling Calibrees along the block of booths . 
Calibree stated to Kennicott , No , I don't believe we care to a whole lot , but you folks go ahead and try it . 
Kennicott summarized the whole case against wildness Let's try it some other time , Carrie . 
She looked at the town . 
She saw that in adventuring from Main Street , Gopher Prairie , to Main Street , Joralemon , she had not stirred . 
They reached Gopher Prairie at nine in the evening . 
You look kind of hot , said Kennicott . 
Joralemon is an enterprising town , don't you think so ? She broke . 
No ! I think it's an ash heap . 
Why , Carrie ! He worried over it for a week . 
While he ground his plate with his knife as he energetically pursued fragments of bacon , he peeped at her . 
CHAPTER XXV CARRIE'S all right . 
She's finicky , but she'll get over it . 
Will Kennicott was brooding in his office , during a free moment toward the end of the summer afternoon . 
By golly , she's taking an awful big chance , though . 
You'd expect her to learn by and by that I won't be a parlor lizard . 
She says we try to make her over . 
Take it easy , and don't try to talk . 
Carrie thinks she's such a whale at analyzing folks . 
Giving the town the once over . 
Telling us where we get off . 
At that , no matter what faults she's got , there's nobody here , no , nor in Minn'aplus either , that's as nice looking and square and bright as Carrie . 
She ought to of been an artist or a writer or one of those things . 
But once she took a shot at living here , she ought to stick by it . 
She simply doesn't know what passion is . 
She simply hasn't got an I dea how hard it is for a full blooded man to go on pretending to be satisfied with just being endured . 
It gets awful tiresome , having to feel like a criminal just because I'm normal . 
She's getting so she doesn't even care for my kissing her . 
Well I guess I can weather it , same as I did earning my way through school and getting started in practise . 
But I wonder how long I can stand being an outsider in my own home ? He sat up at the entrance of Mrs. Dave Dyer . 
She slumped into a chair and gasped with the heat . 
He chuckled , Well , well , Maud , this is fine . 
Where's the subscription list ? What cause do I get robbed for , this trip ? I haven't any subscription list , Will . 
I want to see you professionally . 
It's just that my faith isn't strong enough yet . 
So there now ! And besides , you ARE kind of consoling , Will . 
I mean as a man , not just as a doctor . 
You're so strong and placid . 
As she purred he cocked an interested eye . 
But her milky skin was delicious , her eyes were alive , her chestnut hair shone , and there was a tender slope from her ears to the shadowy place below her jaw . 
With unusual solicitude he uttered his stock phrase , Well , what seems to be the matter , Maud ? I've got such a backache all the time . 
I'm afraid the organic trouble that you treated me for is coming back . 
Any definite signs of it ? N no , but I think you'd better examine me . 
Don't believe it's necessary , Maud . 
To be honest , between old friends , I think your troubles are mostly imaginary . 
I can't really advise you to have an examination . 
She flushed , looked out of the window . 
He was conscious that his voice was not impersonal and even . 
Will , you always say my troubles are imaginary . 
If I said , Go to New York , Dave and you would laugh your heads off and say , Look at the airs Will is putting on . 
What does he think he is ? As a matter of fact , you're right . 
You have a perfectly well developed case of repression of sex instinct , and it raises the old Ned with your body . 
I know it , well 's you do . 
But how can I advise it ? Dave would be up here taking my hide off . 
I'm willing to be family physician and priest and lawyer and plumber and wet nurse , but I draw the line at making Dave loosen up on money . 
He'd never let me go away . 
I have to nag him for every single dollar . 
Sure , I know , but it's your fight , honey . 
He'd simply resent my butting in . 
He crossed over and patted her shoulder . 
Outside the window , beyond the fly screen that was opaque with dust and cottonwood lint , Main Street was hushed except for the impatient throb of a standing motor car . 
She took his firm hand , pressed his knuckles against her cheek . 
O Will , Dave is so mean and little and noisy the shrimp ! You're so calm . 
When he's cutting up at parties I see you standing back and watching him the way a mastiff watches a terrier . 
He fought for professional dignity with , Dave 's not a bad fellow . 
Lingeringly she released his hand . 
Will , drop round by the house this evening and scold me . 
Make me be good and sensible . 
If I did , Dave would be there , and we'd have to play cards . 
It's his evening off from the store . 
No. The clerk just got called to Corinth mother sick . 
Dave will be in the store till midnight . 
Oh , come on over . 
There's some lovely beer on the ice , and we can sit and talk and be all cool and lazy . 
That wouldn't be wrong of us , WOULD it ! No , no , course it wouldn't be wrong . 
But still , oughtn't to He saw Carol , slim black and ivory , cool , scornful of intrigue . 
But I'll be so lonely . 
Her throat seemed young , above her loose blouse of muslin and machine lace . 
Tell you , Maud I'll drop in just for a minute , if I happen to be called down that way . 
If you'd like , demurely . 
O Will , I just want comfort . 
I'll be lonely if you don't come ! Good by . 
He cursed himself Darned fool , what 'd I promise to go for ? I'll have to keep my promise , or she'll feel hurt . 
She's a good , decent , affectionate girl , and Dave's a cheap skate , all right . 
She's got more life to her than Carol has . 
All my fault , anyway . 
Why can't I be more cagey , like Calibree and McGanum and the rest of the doctors ? Oh , I am , but Maud's such a demanding idiot . 
Deliberately bamboozling me into going up there tonight . 
Matter of principle ought not to let her get away with it . 
I'll call her up and tell her I won't go . 
I may just drop in for a second , to tell her I can't stay . 
All my fault anyway ought never to have started in and jollied Maud along in the old days . 
If it's my fault , I've got no right to punish Maud . 
I could just drop in for a second and then pretend I had a country call and beat it . 
Damn nuisance , though , having to fake up excuses . 
Take Carrie to the movies , and forget Maud . 
But it would be kind of hot at the movies tonight . 
He rammed on his hat , threw his coat over his arm , banged the door , locked it , tramped downstairs . 
I won't go ! he said sturdily and , as he said it , he would have given a good deal to know whether he was going . 
He was refreshed , as always , by the familiar windows and faces . 
It restored his soul to have Sam Clark trustingly bellow , Better come down to the lake this evening and have a swim , doc . 
Ain't you going to open your cottage at all , this summer ? By golly , we miss you . 
He noted the progress on the new garage . 
He had triumphed in the laying of every course of bricks in them he had seen the growth of the town . 
His pride was ushered back to its throne by the respectfulness of Oley Sundquist Evenin' , doc ! The woman is a lot better . 
That was swell medicine you gave her . 
The hose was cool to his hands . 
As the bright arrows fell with a faint puttering sound , a crescent of blackness was formed in the gray dust . 
Where going , Dave ? Down to the store . 
But Thursday 's your night off . 
Sure , but Pete went home . 
His mother 's supposed to be sick . 
Gosh , these clerks you get nowadays overpay 'em and then they won't work ! That's tough , Dave . 
You'll have to work clear up till twelve , then . 
Better drop in and have a cigar , if you're downtown . 
Well , I may , at that . 
May have to go down and see Mrs. Champ Perry . 
Kennicott had not yet entered the house . 
He was conscious that Carol was near him , that she was important , that he was afraid of her disapproval but he was content to be alone . 
He slipped his arm about Carol's shoulder he went down to supper rejoicing that he was cleansed of perilous stuff . 
While Carol was putting the baby to bed he sat on the front steps . 
Nat Hicks , tailor and roue , came to sit beside him . 
Me and Harry Haydock are going to take her and that fat wren that works in the Bon Ton nice kid , too on an auto ride tonight . 
Maybe we'll drive down to that farm Harry bought . 
We're taking some beer , and some of the smoothest rye you ever laid tongue to . 
I'm not predicting none , but if we don't have a picnic , I'll miss my guess . 
No skin off my ear , Nat . 
No no Rats now , doc , forget your everlasting dignity . 
You used to be a pretty good sport yourself , when you were foot free . 
Don't pretend to be any saint . 
Like to get out and raise Cain and shoot a few drinks . 
But I can't get away with it . 
Besides that way I figure it , this illicit love making is the one game that you always lose at . 
Nature stinging us , as usual . 
Guess I won't , grumbled Kennicott . 
He was glad that Nat showed signs of going . 
He heard Carol on the stairs . 
Come have a seat have the whole earth ! he shouted jovially . 
She did not answer his joviality . 
She sat on the porch , rocked silently , then sighed , So many mosquitos out here . 
You haven't had the screen fixed . 
As though he was testing her he said quietly , Head aching again ? Oh , not much , but This maid is SO slow to learn . 
I have to show her everything . 
I had to clean most of the silver myself . 
And Hugh was so bad all afternoon . 
Poor soul , he was hot , but he did wear me out . 
Uh You usually want to get out . 
Why don't you sleep down stairs tonight , on the couch ? Be cooler . 
I'm going to bring down my mattress . 
Come on ! Keep the old man company . 
Can't tell I might get scared of burglars . 
Lettin' little fellow like me stay all alone by himself ! It's sweet of you to think of it , but I like my own room so much . 
But you go ahead and do it , dear . 
Unless you want me , dear ? Of course if there's anything you really WANT me for ? No. No. . 
Matter of fact , I really ought to run down and see Mrs. Champ Perry . 
So you skip in and May drop in at the drug store . 
If I'm not home when you get sleepy , don't wait up for me . 
He kissed her , rambled off , nodded to Jim Howland , stopped indifferently to speak to Mrs. Terry Gould . 
But his heart was racing , his stomach was constricted . 
He reached Dave Dyer's yard . 
On the porch , sheltered by a wild grape vine , was the figure of a woman in white . 
He heard the swing couch creak as she sat up abruptly , peered , then leaned back and pretended to relax . 
Be nice to have some cool beer . 
Just drop in for a second , he insisted , as he opened the Dyer gate . 
II Mrs. Bogart was calling upon Carol , protected by Aunt Bessie Smail . 
Have you heard about this awful woman that's supposed to have come here to do dressmaking a Mrs. Swiftwaite awful peroxide blonde ? moaned Mrs. Bogart . 
They say there's some of the awfullest goings on at her house mere boys and old gray headed rips sneaking in there evenings and drinking licker and every kind of goings on . 
We women can't never realize the carnal thoughts in the hearts of men . 
I don't pretend that Will has no faults . 
But one thing I do know He's as simple hearted about what you call goings on' as a babe . 
Whether the grass needs cutting , probably ! There , there ! Don't mind my naughtiness . 
I have some fresh made raisin cookies for you . 
CHAPTER XXVI CAROL'S liveliest interest was in her walks with the baby . 
They had an especial fondness for the hitching post in front of the mill . 
It was a brown post , stout and agreeable the smooth leg of it held the sunlight , while its neck , grooved by hitching straps , tickled one's fingers . 
She forgot her seasons of boredom . 
She said to Hugh , We're two fat disreputable old minstrels roaming round the world , and he echoed her , Roamin' round roamin' round . 
The high adventure , the secret place to which they both fled joyously , was the house of Miles and Bea and Olaf Bjornstam . 
Kennicott steadily disapproved of the Bjornstams . 
He protested , What do you want to talk to that crank for ? He hinted that a former Swede hired girl was low company for the son of Dr . 
She did not quite understand it herself did not know that in the Bjornstams she found her friends , her club , her sympathy and her ration of blessed cynicism . 
For a time the gossip of Juanita Haydock and the Jolly Seventeen had been a refuge from the droning of Aunt Bessie , but the relief had not continued . 
The young matrons made her nervous . 
They talked so loud , always so loud . 
They filled a room with clashing cackle their jests and gags they repeated nine times over . 
Unconsciously , she had discarded the Jolly Seventeen , Guy Pollock , Vida , and every one save Mrs. Dr . 
Westlake and the friends whom she did not clearly know as friends the Bjornstams . 
To Hugh , the Red Swede was the most heroic and powerful person in the world . 
With unrestrained adoration he trotted after while Miles fed the cows , chased his one pig an animal of lax and migratory instincts or dramatically slaughtered a chicken . 
Carol saw , though she did not admit , that Olaf was not only more beautiful than her own dark child , but more gracious . 
Olaf was a Norse chieftain straight , sunny haired , large limbed , resplendently amiable to his subjects . 
Hugh was a vulgarian a bustling business man . 
It was Hugh that bounced and said Let's play Olaf that opened luminous blue eyes and agreed All right , in condescending gentleness . 
If Hugh batted him and Hugh did bat him Olaf was unafraid but shocked . 
In magnificent solitude he marched toward the house , while Hugh bewailed his sin and the overclouding of august favor . 
Miles had done well with his dairy . 
He had six cows , two hundred chickens , a cream separator , a Ford truck . 
In the spring he had built a two room addition to his shack . 
That illustrious building was to Hugh a carnival . 
Uncle Miles's most ecstatic trick was to make figures not on paper but right on a new pine board , with the broadest softest pencil in the world . 
In fact it was a good dodge to volunteer I must not touch , when you looked at the tools on the glass shelves in Father's office . 
But Uncle Miles , who was a person altogether superior to Father , let you handle all his kit except the saws . 
II While he had worked on the addition Miles had talked frankly to Carol . 
He admitted now that so long as he stayed in Gopher Prairie he would remain a pariah . 
Bea's Lutheran friends were as much offended by his agnostic gibes as the merchants by his radicalism . 
And I can't seem to keep my mouth shut . 
Once she kidnapped me and drug me to the Methodist Church . 
I goes in , pious as Widow Bogart , and sits still and never cracks a smile while the preacher is favoring us with his misinformation on evolution . 
But afterwards , when the old stalwarts were pumphandling everybody at the door and calling 'em Brother' and Sister , they let me sail right by with nary a clinch . 
They figure I'm the town badman . 
Always will be , I guess . 
It'll have to be Olaf who goes on . 
And sometimes Blamed if I don't feel like coming out and saying , I've been conservative . 
Now I'm going to start something in these rotten one horse lumber camps west of town . 
But Bea's got me hypnotized . 
Course I've had thoughts of pulling up stakes and going West . 
Maybe if they didn't know it beforehand , they wouldn't find out I'd ever been guilty of trying to think for myself . 
It's just for them that I mind . 
Say ! Say ! Don't whisper a word to Bea , but when I get this addition done , I'm going to buy her a phonograph ! He did . 
The addition gave her a kitchen with a bedroom above . 
The original one room shack was now a living room , with the phonograph , a genuine leather upholstered golden oak rocker , and a picture of Governor John Johnson . 
In late July Carol went to the Bjornstams' desirous of a chance to express her opinion of Beavers and Calibrees and Joralemons . 
She found Olaf abed , restless from a slight fever , and Bea flushed and dizzy but trying to keep up her work . 
She lured Miles aside and worried They don't look at all well . 
What's the matter ? Their stomachs are out of whack . 
I wanted to call in Doc Kennicott , but Bea thinks the doc doesn't like us she thinks maybe he's sore because you come down here . 
I'm going to call the doctor at once . 
His lambent eyes were stupid , he moaned , he rubbed his forehead . 
Have they been eating something that's been bad for them ? she fluttered to Miles . 
I offered to pay Oscar but he refused he'd rather have the chance to kid me . 
So I starts getting water down at Mrs. Fageros's , in the hollow there , and I don't believe it's real good . 
Figuring to dig my own well this fall . 
One scarlet word was before Carol's eyes while she listened She fled to Kennicott's office . 
He gravely heard her out nodded , said , Be right over . 
He examined Bea and Olaf . 
Looks to me like typhoid . 
Golly , I've seen typhoid in lumber camps , groaned Miles , all the strength dripping out of him . 
Won't you need a nurse ? demanded Carol . 
Why To Miles , Kennicott hinted , Couldn't you get Bea's cousin , Tina ? She's down at the old folks' , in the country . 
Then let me do it ! Carol insisted . 
They need some one to cook for them , and isn't it good to give them sponge baths , in typhoid ? Yes . 
Kennicott was automatic he was the official , the physician . 
I guess probably it would be hard to get a nurse here in town just now . 
Mrs. Stiver is busy with an obstetrical case , and that town nurse of yours is off on vacation , ain't she ? All right , Bjornstam can spell you at night . 
All week , from eight each morning till midnight , Carol fed them , bathed them , smoothed sheets , took temperatures . 
Miles refused to let her cook . 
Terrified , pallid , noiseless in stocking feet , he did the kitchen work and the sweeping , his big red hands awkwardly careful . 
Kennicott came in three times a day , unchangingly tender and hopeful in the sick room , evenly polite to Miles . 
Carol understood how great was her love for her friends . 
It bore her through it made her arm steady and tireless to bathe them . 
What exhausted her was the sight of Bea and Olaf turned into flaccid invalids , uncomfortably flushed after taking food , begging for the healing of sleep at night . 
During the second week Olaf's powerful legs were flabby . 
Spots of a viciously delicate pink came out on his chest and back . 
His tongue was brown and revolting . 
His confident voice dwindled to a bewildered murmur , ceaseless and racking . 
Bea had stayed on her feet too long at the beginning . 
The moment Kennicott had ordered her to bed she had begun to collapse . 
One early evening she startled them by screaming , in an intense abdominal pain , and within half an hour she was in a delirium . 
Carol slept three hours next morning , and ran back . 
At the front door she saw Vida Sherwin , Maud Dyer , and Mrs. Zitterel , wife of the Baptist pastor . 
They were carrying grapes , and women's magazines , magazines with high colored pictures and optimistic fiction . 
We just heard your wife was sick . 
We've come to see if there isn't something we can do , chirruped Vida . 
Miles looked steadily at the three women . 
You can't do nothing now . 
Bea's always kind of hoped that you folks would come see her . 
She wanted to have a chance and be friends . 
She used to sit waiting for somebody to knock . 
I've seen her sitting here , waiting . 
Now Oh , you ain't worth God damning . 
All day Carol watched Olaf's strength oozing . 
His ribs were grim clear lines , his skin was clammy , his pulse was feeble but terrifyingly rapid . 
It beat beat beat in a drum roll of death . 
Late that afternoon he sobbed , and died . 
Bea did not know it . 
Miles , Carol , Kennicott were silent . 
They washed the bodies together , their eyes veiled . 
Go home now and sleep . 
I can't ever pay you back for what you done , Miles whispered to Carol . 
But I'll be back here tomorrow . 
Go with you to the funeral , she said laboriously . 
When the time for the funeral came , Carol was in bed , collapsed . 
She assumed that neighbors would go . 
They had not told her that word of Miles's rebuff to Vida had spread through town , a cyclonic fury . 
It was only by chance that , leaning on her elbow in bed , she glanced through the window and saw the funeral of Bea and Olaf . 
There was no music , no carriages . 
There was only Miles Bjornstam , in his black wedding suit , walking quite alone , head down , behind the shabby hearse that bore the bodies of his wife and baby . 
That afternoon Juanita Haydock dropped in to brighten Carol . 
She said , Too bad about this Bea that was your hired girl . 
But I don't waste any sympathy on that man of hers . 
Everybody says he drank too much , and treated his family awful , and that's how they got sick . 
CHAPTER XXVII I A LETTER from Raymie Wutherspoon , in France , said that he had been sent to the front , been slightly wounded , been made a captain . 
From Vida's pride Carol sought to draw a stimulant to rouse her from depression . 
Miles had sold his dairy . 
He had several thousand dollars . 
To Carol he said good by with a mumbled word , a harsh hand shake , Going to buy a farm in northern Alberta far off from folks as I can get . 
He turned sharply away , but he did not walk with his former spring . 
It was said that before he went he cursed the town . 
There was talk of arresting him , of riding him on a rail . 
It was rumored that at the station old Champ Perry rebuked him , You better not come back here . 
We've got respect for your dead , but we haven't got any for a blasphemer and a traitor that won't do anything for his country and only bought one Liberty Bond . 
He must have felt guilty , everybody agreed , for as the train left town , a farmer saw him standing in the vestibule and looking out . 
His house with the addition which he had built four months ago was very near the track on which his train passed . 
When Carol went there , for the last time , she found Olaf's chariot with its red spool wheels standing in the sunny corner beside the stable . 
She wondered if a quick eye could have noticed it from a train . 
That day and that week she went reluctantly to Red Cross work she stitched and packed silently , while Vida read the war bulletins . 
And she said nothing at all when Kennicott com mented , From what Champ says , I guess Bjornstam was a bad egg , after all . 
Guy Pollock she often met on the street , but he was merely a pleasant voice which said things about Charles Lamb and sunsets . 
Her most positive experience was the revelation of Mrs. Flickerbaugh , the tall , thin , twitchy wife of the attorney . 
Carol encountered her at the drug store . 
Walking ? snapped Mrs. Flickerbaugh . 
Guess you're the only female in this town that retains the use of her legs . 
Come home and have a cup o' tea with me . 
Because she had nothing else to do , Carol went . 
But she was uncomfortable in the presence of the amused stares which Mrs. Flickerbaugh's raiment drew . 
Stick the baby in that rocker . 
Hope you don't mind the house looking like a rat's nest . 
You don't like this town . 
Neither do I , said Mrs. Flickerbaugh . 
Why Course you don't ! Well then , I don't ! But I'm sure that some day I'll find some solution . 
Probably I'm a hexagonal peg . 
Solution find the hexagonal hole . 
How do you know you ever will find it ? There's Mrs. Westlake . 
She's naturally a big city woman she ought to have a lovely old house in Philadelphia or Boston but she escapes by being absorbed in reading . 
I'll die here and I'll hate it till I die . 
I ought to have been a business woman . 
I had a good deal of talent for tending to figures . 
Some folks think I'm crazy . 
Go to church and sing hymns . 
Tut ! Trying to forget washing and ironing and mending socks . 
Want an office of my own , and sell things . 
Julius never hear of it . 
Carol sat on the gritty couch , and sank into fear . 
She went into the house , a frail small woman , still winsome but hopeless of eye as she staggered with the weight of the drowsy boy in her arms . 
She sat alone on the porch , that evening . 
It seemed that Kennicott had to make a professional call on Mrs. Dave Dyer . 
Under the stilly boughs and the black gauze of dusk the street was meshed in silence . 
It was a street beyond the end of the world , beyond the boundaries of hope . 
Though she should sit here forever , no brave procession , no one who was interesting , would be coming by . 
It was tediousness made tangible , a street builded of lassitude and of futility . 
Myrtle Cass appeared , with Cy Bogart . 
She giggled and bounced when Cy tickled her ear in village love . 
They strolled with the half dancing gait of lovers , kicking their feet out sideways or shuffling a dragging jig , and the concrete walk sounded to the broken two four rhythm . 
Their voices had a dusky turbulence . 
CHAPTER XXVIII IT WAS at a supper of the Jolly Seventeen in August that Carol heard of Elizabeth , from Mrs. Dave Dyer . 
Carol was fond of Maud Dyer , because she had been particularly agreeable lately had obviously repented of the nervous distaste which she had once shown . 
Maud patted her hand when they met , and asked about Hugh . 
Kennicott said that he was kind of sorry for the girl , some ways she's too darn emotional , but still , Dave is sort of mean to her . 
He was polite to poor Maud when they all went down to the cottages for a swim . 
Carol was proud of that sympathy in him , and now she took pains to sit with their new friend . 
Mrs. Dyer was bubbling , Oh , have you folks heard about this young fellow that's just come to town that the boys call Elizabeth' ? He's working in Nat Hicks's tailor shop . 
and he tries to let on that he's a regular city fellow . 
They say he tries to make people think he's a poet carries books around and pretends to read 'em . 
Can you BEAT it ? Imagine ! And him a Swede tailor ! My ! And they say he's the most awful mollycoddle looks just like a girl . 
Oh , I think it's just TOO funny ! The Jolly Seventeen laughed , and Carol laughed with them . 
Mrs. Jack Elder added that this Erik Valborg had confided to Mrs. Gurrey that he would love to design clothes for women . 
Imagine ! Mrs. Harvey Dillon had had a glimpse of him , but honestly , she'd thought he was awfully handsome . 
This was instantly controverted by Mrs. B. J. Gougerling , wife of the banker . 
Mrs. Gougerling had had , she reported , a good look at this Valborg fellow . 
She and B. J. had been motoring , and passed Elizabeth out by McGruder's Bridge . 
He was wearing the awfullest clothes , with the waist pinched in like a girl's . 
And he wasn't really good looking just kind of soft , as B. J. had pointed out . 
When the husbands came they joined in the expose . 
I'm the celebrated musical tailor . 
The skirts fall for me by the thou . 
Do I get some more veal loaf ? merrily shrieked Dave Dyer . 
He had some admirable stories about the tricks the town youngsters had played on Valborg . 
They had dropped a decaying perch into his pocket . 
They had pinned on his back a sign , I'm the prize boob , kick me . 
She decided that sometime she really must go out of her way to pass Hicks's shop and see this freak . 
II She was at Sunday morning service at the Baptist Church , in a solemn row with her husband , Hugh , Uncle Whittier , Aunt Bessie . 
Despite Aunt Bessie's nagging the Kennicotts rarely attended church . 
And I guess this theology is O. K. lot of wise old coots figured it all out , and they knew more about it than we do . 
Carol herself was an uneasy and dodging agnostic . 
Paul , were still , in Gopher Prairie , the strongest of the forces compelling respectability . 
Carol gathered her family and trotted off behind Uncle Whittier . 
The congregation faced the heat with informality . 
Men with highly plastered hair , so painfully shaved that their faces looked sore , removed their coats , sighed , and unbuttoned two buttons of their uncreased Sunday vests . 
Large bosomed , white bloused , hot necked , spectacled matrons the Mothers in Israel , pioneers and friends of Mrs. Champ Perry waved their palm leaf fans in a steady rhythm . 
Abashed boys slunk into the rear pews and giggled , while milky little girls , up front with their mothers , self consciously kept from turning around . 
The church was half barn and half Gopher Prairie parlor . 
But the varnished oak pews and the new red carpet and the three large chairs on the platform , behind the bare reading stand , were all of a rocking chair comfort . 
Carol was civic and neighborly and commendable today . 
She trolled out with the others the hymn How pleasant 'tis on Sabbath morn To gather in the church And there I'll have no carnal thoughts , Nor sin shall me besmirch . 
With a rustle of starched linen skirts and stiff shirt fronts , the congregation sat down , and gave heed to the Reverend Mr. Zitterel . 
The priest was a thin , swart , intense young man with a bang . 
He wore a black sack suit and a lilac tie . 
There isn't any movement that amounts to a whoop without it's got a moral background . 
Carol wondered who the girl was . 
She had seen her at church suppers . 
She got some satisfaction out of rubbing an itching knuckle . 
She pillowed on her shoulder the head of the baby who , after killing time in the same manner as his mother , was so fortunate as to fall asleep . 
She read the introduction , title page , and acknowledgment of copyrights , in the hymnal . 
She tried to evolve a philosophy which would explain why Kennicott could never tie his scarf so that it would reach the top of the gap in his turn down collar . 
There were no other diversions to be found in the pew . 
She glanced back at the congregation . 
She thought that it would be amiable to bow to Mrs. Champ Perry . 
Her slow turning head stopped , galvanized . 
The lips of men in Gopher Prairie are flat in the face , straight and grudging . 
The stranger's mouth was arched , the upper lip short . 
He wore a brown jersey coat , a delft blue bow , a white silk shirt , white flannel trousers . 
He suggested the ocean beach , a tennis court , anything but the sun blistered utility of Main Street . 
A visitor from Minneapolis , here for business ? No. He wasn't a business man . 
Keats was in his face , and Shelley , and Arthur Upson , whom she had once seen in Minneapolis . 
He was at once too sensitive and too sophisticated to touch business as she knew it in Gopher Prairie . 
With restrained amusement he was analyzing the noisy Mr. Zitterel . 
Carol was ashamed to have this spy from the Great World hear the pastor's maundering . 
She felt responsible for the town . 
She resented his gaping at their private rites . 
She flushed , turned away . 
But she continued to feel his presence . 
How could she meet him ? She must ! For an hour of talk . 
He was all that she was hungry for . 
She could not let him get away without a word and she would have to . 
She pictured , and ridiculed , herself as walking up to him and remarking , I am sick with the Village Virus . 
She warned herself that she was probably exaggerating that no young man could have all these exalted qualities . 
Wasn't he too obviously smart , too glossy new ? Like a movie actor . 
Probably he was a traveling salesman who sang tenor and fancied himself in imitations of Newport clothes and spoke of the swellest business proposition that ever came down the pike . 
In a panic she peered at him . 
No ! This was no hustling salesman , this boy with the curving Grecian lips and the serious eyes . 
She rose after the service , carefully taking Kennicott's arm and smiling at him in a mute assertion that she was devoted to him no matter what happened . 
She followed the Mystery's soft brown jersey shoulders out of the church . 
Her herald from the outside was Erik Valborg , Elizabeth . 
Apprentice tailor ! Gasoline and hot goose ! Mending dirty jackets ! Respectfully holding a tape measure about a paunch ! And yet , she insisted , this boy was also himself . 
III They had Sunday dinner with the Smails , in a dining room which centered about a fruit and flower piece and a crayon enlargement of Uncle Whittier . 
Carol did not heed Aunt Bessie's fussing in regard to Mrs. Robert B. Schminke's bead necklace and Whittier's error in putting on the striped pants , day like this . 
She did not taste the shreds of roast pork . 
Wasn't that the darudest get up he had on ! Kennicott scratched at a white smear on his hard gray sleeve . 
I wonder where he comes from ? He seems to have lived in cities a good deal . 
Is he from the East ? The East ? Him ? Why , he comes from a farm right up north here , just this side of Jefferson . 
I know his father slightly Adolph Valborg typical cranky old Swede farmer . 
Oh , really ? blandly . 
Believe he has lived in Minneapolis for quite some time , though . 
And I will say he's bright , some ways . 
Pollock says he takes more books out of the library than anybody else in town . 
Huh ! He's kind of like you in that ! The Smails and Kennicott laughed very much at this sly jest . 
Uncle Whittier seized the conversation . 
That fellow that's working for Hicks ? Milksop , that's what he is . 
It would slide in easily . 
The headlines would be terrible Kennicott said judiciously , Oh , I don't want to be unjust to him . 
I believe he took his physical examination for military service . 
Got varicose veins not bad , but enough to disqualify him . 
Though I will say he doesn't look like a fellow that would be so awful darn crazy to poke his bayonet into a Hun's guts . 
Will ! PLEASE ! Well , he don't . 
And they say he told Del Snafflin , when he was getting a hair cut on Saturday , that he wished he could play the piano . 
Isn't it wonderful how much we all know about one another in a town like this , said Carol innocently . 
Kennicott was suspicious , but Aunt Bessie , serving the floating island pudding , agreed , Yes , it is wonderful . 
Folks can get away with all sorts of meannesses and sins in these terrible cities , but they can't here . 
Blood on the whiteness of a tablecloth might be gorgeous . 
Then Fool ! Neurotic impossibilist ! Telling yourself orchard fairy tales at thirty . 
Dear Lord , am I really THIRTY ? That boy can't be more than twenty five . 
Boarding with the Widow Bogart was Fern Mullins , a girl of twenty two who was to be teacher of English , French , and gymnastics in the high school this coming session . 
Fern Mullins had come to town early , for the six weeks normal course for country teachers . 
Carol had noticed her on the street , had heard almost as much about her as about Erik Valborg . 
She was tall , weedy , pretty , and incurably rakish . 
Whether she wore a low middy collar or dressed reticently for school in a black suit with a high necked blouse , she was airy , flippant . 
She looks like an absolute totty , said all the Mrs. Sam Clarks , disapprovingly , and all the Juanita Haydocks , enviously . 
Cy had to go downtown for weighty matters connected with the pool parlor . 
Fern drooped on the Bogart porch , her chin in her hands . 
She looks lonely , said Kennicott . 
She does , poor soul . 
I believe I'll go over and speak to her . 
I was introduced to her at Dave's but I haven't called . 
Carol was slipping across the lawn , a white figure in the dimness , faintly brushing the dewy grass . 
She was thinking of Erik and of the fact that her feet were wet , and she was casual in her greeting Hello ! The doctor and I wondered if you were lonely . 
Resentfully , I am ! Carol concentrated on her . 
My dear , you sound so ! I know how it is . 
I used to be tired when I was on the job I was a librarian . 
What was your college ? I was Blodgett . 
More interestedly , I went to the U. Fern meant the University of Minnesota . 
You must have had a splendid time . 
Blodgett was a bit dull . 
Where were you a librarian ? challengingly . 
Honest ? Oh dear , I wish I was back in the Cities ! This is my first year of teaching , and I'm scared stiff . 
I did have the best time in college dramatics and basket ball and fussing and dancing I'm simply crazy about dancing . 
This normal course is bad enough , but the regular school will be FIERCE ! If it wasn't too late to get a job in the Cities , I swear I'd resign here . 
I bet I won't dare to go to a single dance all winter . 
If I cut loose and danced the way I like to , they'd think I was a perfect hellion poor harmless me ! Oh , I oughtn't to be talking like this . 
Fern , you never could be cagey ! Don't be frightened , my dear ! . 
Doesn't that sound atrociously old and kind ! I'm talking to you the way Mrs. Westlake talks to me ! That's having a husband and a kitchen range , I suppose . 
But I feel young , and I want to dance like a like a hellion ? too . 
Fern made a sound of gratitude . 
Carol inquired , What experience did you have with college dramatics ? I tried to start a kind of Little Theater here . 
When she was driving with Kennicott , in early evening , she saw him on the lake shore , reading a thin book which might easily have been poetry . 
She noted that he was the only person in the motorized town who still took long walks . 
She told herself that she was the daughter of a judge , the wife of a doctor , and that she did not care to know a capering tailor . 
She told herself that she was not responsive to men . 
not even to Percy Bresnahan . 
She told herself that a woman of thirty who heeded a boy of twenty five was ridiculous . 
Hicks was in the back room . 
She faced the Greek god who , in a somewhat ungodlike way , was stitching a coat on a scaley sewing machine , in a room of smutted plaster walls . 
She saw that his hands were not in keeping with a Hellenic face . 
They were thick , roughened with needle and hot iron and plow handle . 
Even in the shop he persisted in his finery . 
He wore a silk shirt , a topaz scarf , thin tan shoes . 
What name ? he called after her . 
He had risen and , despite the farcicality of Dr . 
Will Kennicott's bulgy trousers draped over his arm , he had the grace of a cat . 
Oh ! Oh say , you're Mrs. Dr . 
Kennicott then , aren't you ? Yes . 
She stood at the door . 
Now that she had carried out her preposterous impulse to see what he was like , she was cold , she was as ready to detect familiarities as the virtuous Miss Ella Stowbody . 
Myrtle Cass was saying you got up a dramatic club and gave a dandy play . 
I've always wished I had a chance to belong to a Little Theater , and give some European plays , or whimsical like Barrie , or a pageant . 
He pronounced it pagent he rhymed pag with rag . 
Carol nodded in the manner of a lady being kind to a tradesman , and one of her selves sneered , Our Erik is indeed a lost John Keats . 
He was appealing , Do you suppose it would be possible to get up another dramatic club this coming fall ? Well , it might be worth thinking of . 
She came out of her several conflicting poses , and said sincerely , There's a new teacher , Miss Mullins , who might have some talent . 
That would make three of us for a nucleus . 
If we could scrape up half a dozen we might give a real play with a small cast . 
Have you had any experience ? Just a bum club that some of us got up in Minneapolis when I was working there . 
We had one good man , an interior decorator maybe he was kind of sis and effeminate , but he really was an artist , and we gave one dandy play . 
If you didn't want to use me as an actor , I'd love to design the costumes . 
I'm crazy about fabrics textures and colors and designs . 
She knew that he was trying to keep her from going , trying to indicate that he was something more than a person to whom one brought trousers for pressing . 
He besought Some day I hope I can get away from this fool repairing , when I have the money saved up . 
I want to go East and work for some big dressmaker , and study art drawing , and become a high class designer . 
Or do you think that's a kind of fiddlin' ambition for a fellow ? I was brought up on a farm . 
And then monkeyin' round with silks ! I don't know . 
What do you think ? Myrtle Cass says you're awfully educated . 
Tell me Have the boys made fun of your ambition ? She was seventy years old , and sexless , and more advisory than Vida Sherwin . 
Well , they have , at that . 
They've jollied me a good deal , here and Minneapolis both . 
They say dressmaking is ladies' work . 
Well You aren't a stranger , one way . 
Myrtle Cass Miss Cass , should say she's spoken about you so often . 
I wanted to call on you and the doctor but I didn't quite have the nerve . 
One evening I walked past your house , but you and your husband were talking on the porch , and you looked so chummy and happy I didn't dare butt in . 
Maternally , I think it's extremely nice of you to want to be trained in in enunciation by a stage director . 
Perhaps I could help you . 
I'm a thoroughly sound and uninspired schoolma'am by instinct quite hopelessly mature . 
Oh , you aren't EITHER ! She was not very successful at accepting his fervor with the air of amused woman of the world , but she sounded reasonably impersonal Thank you . 
Shall we see if we really can get up a new dramatic club ? I'll tell you Come to the house this evening , about eight . 
I'll ask Miss Mullins to come over , and we'll talk about it . 
VI He has absolutely no sense of humor . 
He's Keats sensitive to silken things . 
Innumerable of stains and splendid dyes as are the tiger moth's deep damask'd wings . 
Keats , here ! A bewildered spirit fallen on Main Street . 
Gopher Prairie with its celebrated eleven miles of cement walk . 
But to Erik Valborg he was not cordial . 
He shook hands loosely , and said , H' are yuh . 
The conference on a dramatic club theoretically included Kennicott , but he sat back , patting yawns , conscious of Fern's ankles , smiling amiably on the children at their sport . 
Fern wanted to tell her grievances Carol was sulky every time she thought of The Girl from Kankakee it was Erik who made suggestions . 
He had read with astounding breadth , and astounding lack of judgment . 
His voice was sensitive to liquids , but he overused the word glorious . 
He mispronounced a tenth of the words he had from books , but he knew it . 
He was insistent , but he was shy . 
When he demanded , I'd like to stage Suppressed Desires , by Cook and Miss Glaspell , Carol ceased to be patronizing . 
He was not the yearner he was the artist , sure of his vision . 
Put the breakfast table on a dais . 
Another play I wish we could do is Tennyson Jesse's The Black Mask . 
I've never seen it but Glorious ending , where this woman looks at the man with his face all blown away , and she just gives one horrible scream . 
Good God , is that your idea of a glorious ending ? bayed Kennicott . 
That sounds fierce ! I do love artistic things , but not the horrible ones , moaned Fern Mullins . 
Erik was bewildered glanced at Carol . 
At the end of the conference they had decided nothing . 
CHAPTER XXIX SHE had walked up the railroad track with Hugh , this Sunday afternoon . 
She saw Erik Valborg coming , in an ancient highwater suit , tramping sullenly and alone , striking at the rails with a stick . 
They greeted each other with Hello . 
Hugh , say how do you do to Mr. Valborg . 
Oh , dear me , he's got a button unbuttoned , worried Erik , kneeling . 
Carol frowned , then noted the strength with which he swung the baby in the air . 
May I walk along a piece with you ? I'm tired . 
Let's rest on those ties . 
Then I must be trotting back . 
They sat on a heap of discarded railroad ties , oak logs spotted with cinnamon colored dry rot and marked with metallic brown streaks where iron plates had rested . 
Hugh learned that the pile was the hiding place of Injuns he went gunning for them while the elders talked of uninteresting things . 
The telegraph wires thrummed , thrummed , thrummed above them the rails were glaring hard lines the goldenrod smelled dusty . 
Erik talked of books flamed like a recent convert to any faith . 
But when he insisted , You've been a librarian tell me do I read too much fiction ? she advised him loftily , rather discursively . 
He had , she indicated , never studied . 
He had skipped from one emotion to another . 
Especially she hesitated , then flung it at him he must not guess at pronunciations he must endure the nuisance of stopping to reach for the dictionary . 
I'm talking like a cranky teacher , she sighed . 
No ! And I will study ! Read the damned dictionary right through . 
He crossed his legs and bent over , clutching his ankle with both hands . 
I know what you mean . 
I've been rushing from picture to picture , like a kid let loose in an art gallery for the first time . 
You see , it's so awful recent that I've found there was a world well , a world where beautiful things counted . 
I was on the farm till I was nineteen . 
Dad is a good farmer , but nothing else . 
I never read a novel till I got Dorothy Vernon of Haddon Hall' out of the library at Curlew . 
I thought it was the loveliest thing in the world ! Next I read Barriers Burned Away' and then Pope's translation of Homer . 
But Yump , I'll study . 
Look here ! Shall I get out of this tailoring , this pressing and repairing ? I don't see why a surgeon should spend very much time cobbling shoes . 
He shrugged and spread his fingers wide . 
She was humbled by his humility she put away in her mind , to take out and worry over later , a speculation as to whether it was not she who was naive . 
She urged , What if you do have to go back ? Most of us do ! We can't all be artists myself , for instance . 
We have to darn socks , and yet we're not content to think of nothing but socks and darning cotton . 
I'd demand all I could get whether I finally settled down to designing frocks or building temples or pressing pants . 
What if you do drop back ? You'll have had the adventure . 
Don't be too meek toward life ! Go ! You're young , you're unmarried . 
Try everything ! Don't listen to Nat Hicks and Sam Clark and be a steady young man' in order to help them make money . 
You're still a blessed innocent . 
Go and play till the Good People capture you ! But I don't just want to play . 
I want to make something beautiful . 
God ! And I don't know enough . 
Do you get it ? Do you understand ? Nobody else ever has ! Do you understand ? Yes . 
And so But here's what bothers me I like fabrics dinky things like that little drawings and elegant words . 
But look over there at those fields . 
But it's not for you . 
It's one of our favorite American myths that broad plains necessarily make broad minds , and high mountains make high purpose . 
I thought that myself , when I first came to the prairie . 
Oh , I don't want to deny the prairie future . 
Sam Clark and Nat Hicks , that's what our big newness has produced . 
Go ! Before it's too late , as it has been for for some of us . 
She could hear him saying , I've always wanted to know a woman who would talk to me like that . 
He was saying nothing of the sort . 
But you mustn't You must be more impersonal ! He glowered at her like a downy young owl . 
She wasn't sure but she thought that he muttered , I'm damned if I will . 
Your lips are for songs about rivers in the morning and lakes at twilight . 
I don't see how anybody could ever hurt you . 
He trudged beside her , his eyes averted . 
Hugh experimentally took his thumb . 
He looked down at the baby seriously . 
He burst out , All right . 
I'll stay here one year . 
Not spend so much money on clothes . 
And then I'll go East , to art school . 
Work on the side tailor shop , dressmaker's . 
I'll learn what I'm good for designing clothes , stage settings , illustrating , or selling collars to fat men . 
He peered at her , unsmiling . 
Oh , they do kid me about not being in the army especially the old warhorses , the old men that aren't going themselves . 
And Mr. Hicks's son he's a horrible brat . 
But probably he's licensed to say what he thinks about his father's hired man ! He's beastly ! They were in town . 
They passed Aunt Bessie's house . 
Aunt Bessie and Mrs. Bogart were at the window , and Carol saw that they were staring so intently that they answered her wave only with the stiffly raised hands of automatons . 
In the next block Mrs. Dr . 
Westlake was gaping from her porch . 
Carol said with an embarrassed quaver I want to run in and see Mrs. Westlake . 
I'll say good by here . 
Carol felt that she was expected to explain and while she was mentally asserting that she'd be hanged if she'd explain , she was explaining Hugh captured that Valborg boy up the track . 
They became such good friends . 
And I talked to him for a while . 
I'd heard he was eccentric , but really , I found him quite intelligent . 
Crude , but he reads reads almost the way Dr . 
Why does he stick here in town ? What's this I hear about his being interested in Myrtle Cass ? I don't know . 
She had been attracted only by hands that were fine and suave , like those of her father . 
Delicate hands and resolute purpose . 
But this boy powerful seamed hands and flabby will . 
It's not appealing weakness like his , but sane strength that win animate the Gopher Prairies . 
Erik frightened me when he turned on me . 
Of course he didn't mean anything , but I mustn't let him be so personal . 
Amazing impertinence ! But he didn't mean to be . 
I wonder if sculptors don't have thick hands , too ? Of course if there really is anything I can do to HELP the boy Though I despise these people who interfere . 
III She wasn't altogether pleased , the week after , when Erik was independent and , without asking for her inspiration , planned the tennis tournament . 
It proved that he had learned to play in Minneapolis that , next to Juanita Haydock , he had the best serve in town . 
Tennis was well spoken of in Gopher Prairie and almost never played . 
Erik had been seen in flannels and an imitation panama hat , playing on the abandoned court with Willis Woodford , the clerk in Stowbody's bank . 
Suddenly he was going about proposing the reorganization of the tennis association , and writing names in a fifteen cent note book bought for the purpose at Dyer's . 
When he came to Carol he was so excited over being an organizer that he did not stop to talk of himself and Aubrey Beardsley for more than ten minutes . 
He begged , Will you get some of the folks to come in ? and she nodded agreeably . 
He had asked Harry Haydock to be tentative president . 
Harry , he reported , had promised , All right . 
But you go ahead and arrange things , and I'll O. K. 'em . 
Erik planned that the match should be held Saturday afternoon , on the old public court at the edge of town . 
He was happy in being , for the first time , part of Gopher Prairie . 
Through the week Carol heard how select an attendance there was to be . 
Kennicott growled that he didn't care to go . 
Had he any objections to her playing with Erik ? No sure not she needed the exercise . 
Carol went to the match early . 
The court was in a meadow out on the New Antonia road . 
He was dashing about with a rake , trying to make the court somewhat less like a plowed field . 
He admitted that he had stage fright at the thought of the coming horde . 
Willis and Mrs. Woodford arrived , Willis in home made knickers and black sneakers through at the toe then Dr . 
and Mrs. Harvey Dillon , people as harmless and grateful as the Woodfords . 
Carol was embarrassed and excessively agreeable , like the bishop's lady trying not to feel out of place at a Baptist bazaar . 
The match was scheduled for three . 
I wonder where the Haydocks are ? They ought to show up , at least , said Erik . 
Carol smiled confidently at him , and peered down the empty road toward town . 
Only heat waves and dust and dusty weeds . 
At half past three no one had come , and the grocery boy reluctantly got out , cranked his Ford , glared at them in a disillusioned manner , and rattled away . 
The small boy and his sister ate grass and sighed . 
The players pretended to be exhilarated by practising service , but they startled at each dust cloud from a motor car . 
None of the cars turned into the meadow none till a quarter to four , when Kennicott drove in . 
How loyal he is ! Depend on him ! He'd come , if nobody else did . 
Even though he doesn't care for the game . 
The old darling ! Kennicott did not alight . 
The bunch are down there now Haydocks and Dyers and Clarks and everybody . 
Harry wanted to know if I'd bring you down . 
I guess I can take the time come right back after supper . 
Before Carol could sum it all up , Erik stammered , Why , Haydock didn't say anything to me about the change . 
Of course he's the president , but Kennicott looked at him heavily , and grunted , I don't know a thing about it . 
Well have supper at home then ? He drove off . 
She hated him for his composure . 
He had ruined her defiance . 
She felt much less like Susan B. Anthony as she turned to her huddled followers . 
Mrs. Dillon and Willis Woodford lost the toss . 
The others played out the game , slowly , painfully , stumbling on the rough earth , muffing the easiest shots , watched only by the small boy and his sniveling sister . 
Beyond the court stretched the eternal stubble fields . 
Through her thin linen sleeve she could feel the crumply warmth of his familiar brown jersey coat . 
She observed that there were purple and red gold threads interwoven with the brown . 
She remembered the first time she had seen it . 
Their talk was nothing but improvisations on the theme I never did like this Haydock . 
He just considers his own convenience . 
Ahead of them , the Dillons and Woodfords spoke of the weather and B. J. Gougerling's new bungalow . 
No one referred to their tennis tournament . 
At her gate Carol shook hands firmly with Erik and smiled at him . 
Next morning , Sunday morning , when Carol was on the porch , the Haydocks drove up . 
We didn't mean to be rude to you , dearie ! implored Juanita . 
I wouldn't have you think that for anything . 
We planned that Will and you should come down and have supper at our cottage . 
No. I'm sure you didn't mean to be . 
But I do think you ought to apologize to poor Erik Valborg . 
I don't care so much what he thinks , objected Harry . 
He's nothing but a conceited buttinsky . 
Juanita and I kind of figured he was trying to run this tennis thing too darn much anyway . 
But you asked him to make arrangements . 
I know , but I don't like him . 
But he IS hurt ! Well I don't suppose I ought to have gone off half cocked , and not jollied him along . 
I'll give him a cigar . 
He'll Juanita had been licking her lips and staring at Carol . 
She interrupted her husband , Yes , I do think Harry ought to fix it up with him . 
You LIKE him , DON'T you , Carol ? ? Over and through Carol ran a frightened cautiousness . 
Like him ? I haven't an I dea . 
He seems to be a very decent young man . 
I just felt that when he'd worked so hard on the plans for the match , it was a shame not to be nice to him . 
IV She wanted to see Erik . 
She wanted some one to play with ! There wasn't even so dignified and sound an excuse as having Kennicott's trousers pressed when she inspected them , all three pairs looked discouragingly neat . 
She probably would not have ventured on it had she not spied Nat Hicks in the pool parlor , being witty over bottle pool . 
Erik was alone ! She fluttered toward the tailor shop , dashed into its slovenly heat with the comic fastidiousness of a humming bird dipping into a dry tiger lily . 
It was after she had entered that she found an excuse . 
Erik was in the back room , cross legged on a long table , sewing a vest . 
But he looked as though he were doing this eccentric thing to amuse himself . 
I wonder if you couldn't plan a sports suit for me ? she said breathlessly . 
It occurred to her that she did not need a suit , and that the order might have been hard to explain to Kennicott . 
He swung down from the table . 
I want to show you something . 
He pulled out a blurred sheet of Bristol board and anxiously gave it to her . 
It was a sketch for a frock . 
It was not well drawn it was too finicking the pillars in the background were grotesquely squat . 
But the frock had an original back , very low , with a central triangular section from the waist to a string of jet beads at the neck . 
But how it would shock Mrs. Clark ! Yes , wouldn't it ! You must let yourself go more when you're drawing . 
Don't know if I can . 
I've started kind of late . 
But listen ! What do you think I've done this two weeks ? I've read almost clear through a Latin grammar , and about twenty pages of Caesar . 
Splendid ! You are lucky . 
You haven't a teacher to make you artificial . 
You're my teacher ! There was a dangerous edge of personality to his voice . 
She was offended and agitated . 
She turned her shoulder on him , stared through the back window , studying this typical center of a typical Main Street block , a vista hidden from casual strollers . 
The backs of the chief establishments in town surrounded a quadrangle neglected , dirty , and incomparably dismal . 
The rear of the Bon Ton Store was grim with blistered black painted iron shutters , under them a pile of once glossy red shirt boxes , now a pulp from recent rain . 
But she now viewed a back room with a homemade refrigerator of yellow smeared with black grease . 
A man in an apron spotted with dry blood was hoisting out a hard slab of meat . 
Behind Billy's Lunch , the cook , in an apron which must long ago have been white , smoked a pipe and spat at the pest of sticky flies . 
In the center of the block , by itself , was the stable for the three horses of the drayman , and beside it a pile of manure . 
He raised his head , jerkily rubbed his eyes , and went back to the eternity of figures . 
The backs of the other shops were an impressionistic picture of dirty grays , drained browns , writhing heaps of refuse . 
Mine is a back yard romance with a journeyman tailor ! She was saved from self pity as she began to think through Erik's mind . 
She turned to him with an indignant , It's disgusting that this is all you have to look at . 
Outside there ? I don't notice much . 
I'm learning to look inside . 
Not awful easy ! Yes . 
She debated it , furiously denied it , reaffirmed it , ridiculed it . 
Of one thing she was unhappily certain there was nothing of the beloved father image in Will Kennicott . 
Pleasant things , small friendly things , and pleasant places a field of goldenrod , a pasture by the creek and suddenly a wealth of pleasant people . 
Vida was lenient to Carol at the surgical dressing class Mrs. Dave Dyer flattered her with questions about her health , baby , cook , and opinions on the war . 
Mrs. Dyer seemed not to share the town's prejudice against Erik . 
He's a nice looking fellow we must have him go on one of our picnics some time . 
Unexpectedly , Dave Dyer also liked him . 
The tight fisted little farceur had a confused reverence for anything that seemed to him refined or clever . 
What's the matter with his talking so polite ? Hell's bells , Harry , no harm in being polite . 
There's some regular he men that are just as polite as women , prett' near . 
I like to think of helping him to succeed . 
over bread and butter by a lake . 
Hugh was in her pictures , and he adored the young artist , who made castles of chairs and rugs for him . 
Beyond these playtimes she saw the things I could do for Erik and she admitted that Erik did partly make up the image of her altogether perfect artist . 
In panic she insisted on being attentive to Kennicott , when he wanted to be left alone to read the newspaper . 
VI She needed new clothes . 
But as she examined her wardrobe she flung her ancient black velvet frock on the floor and raged , They're disgraceful . 
Everything I have is falling to pieces . 
There was a new dressmaker and milliner , a Mrs. Swiftwaite . 
I am sure the lady will find this extremely attractive . 
It's dreadfully tabby and small towny , thought Carol , while she soothed , I don't believe it quite goes with me . 
It's the choicest thing I have , and I'm sure you'll find it suits you beautifully . 
It has a great deal of chic . 
Please try it on , said Mrs. Swiftwaite , more smoothly than ever . 
She was as imitative as a glass diamond . 
She was the more rustic in her effort to appear urban . 
She was magnificently a specimen of the illiterate divorcee of forty made up to look thirty , clever , and alluring . 
While she was trying on the hat Carol felt very condescending . 
But it's really absolutely New Yorkish . 
Well , it You see , I know my New York styles . 
I lived in New York for years , besides almost a year in Akron ! You did ? Carol was polite , and edged away , and went home unhappily . 
She was wondering whether her own airs were as laughable as Mrs. Swiftwaite's . 
She put on the eye glasses which Kennicott had recently given to her for reading , and looked over a grocery bill . 
She went hastily up to her room , to her mirror . 
She was in a mood of self depreciation . 
Accurately or not , this was the picture she saw in the mirror Neat rimless eye glasses . 
Black hair clumsily tucked under a mauve straw hat which would have suited a spinster . 
A modest voile blouse with an edging of lace at the neck . 
A virginal sweetness and timorousness no flare of gaiety , no suggestion of cities , music , quick laughter . 
I have become a small town woman . 
Modest and moral and safe . 
GENTEEL ! The Village Virus the village virtuousness . 
My hair just scrambled together . 
I've waked up to myself . 
Am I as old as as old as I am ? Not really old . 
I want to chuck every stitch I own . 
Black hair and pale cheeks they'd go with a Spanish dancer's costume rose behind my ear , scarlet mantilla over one shoulder , the other bare . 
She seized the rouge sponge , daubed her cheeks , scratched at her lips with the vermilion pencil until they stung , tore open her collar . 
She posed with her thin arms in the attitude of the fandango . 
My heart doesn't dance , she said . 
She flushed as she fastened her blouse . 
At least I'm much more graceful than Fern Mullins . 
Heavens ! When I came here from the Cities , girls imitated me . 
Now I'm trying to imitate a city girl . 
CHAPTER XXX FERN Mullins rushed into the house on a Saturday morning early in September and shrieked at Carol , School starts next Tuesday . 
I've got to have one more spree before I'm arrested . 
Let's get up a picnic down the lake for this afternoon . 
Won't you come , Mrs. Kennicott , and the doctor ? Cy Bogart wants to go he's a brat but he's lively . 
I don't think the doctor can go , sedately . 
He said something about having to make a country call this afternoon . 
That's dandy ! Who can we get ? Mrs. Dyer might be chaperon . 
And maybe Dave , if he could get away from the store . 
How about Erik Valborg ? I think he's got lots more style than these town boys . 
You like him all right , don't you ? So the picnic of Carol , Fern , Erik , Cy Bogart , and the Dyers was not only moral but inevitable . 
They drove to the birch grove on the south shore of Lake Minniemashie . 
Dave Dyer was his most clownish self . 
, Dave splashed water on them and dived to clutch his wife's ankle . 
But Carol could not frolic . 
She had made herself young , with parted hair , sailor blouse and large blue bow , white canvas shoes and short linen skirt . 
Her mirror had asserted that she looked exactly as she had in college , that her throat was smooth , her collar bone not very noticeable . 
But she was under restraint . 
When they swam she enjoyed the freshness of the water but she was irritated by Cy's tricks , by Dave's excessive good spirits . 
She admired Erik's dance he could never betray bad taste , as Cy did , and Dave . 
She waited for him to come to her . 
By his joyousness he had apparently endeared himself to the Dyers . 
Maud , it seemed , was slightly dizzy from the swim . 
She remarked publicly , Dr . 
Erik was nice and cheery . 
Carol assured herself , Whatever faults I may have , I certainly couldn't ever be jealous . 
I do like Maud she's always so pleasant . 
Maud Dyer wanted Erik to come down to the beach to see the darling little minnies . 
Carol was left to Dave , who tried to entertain her with humorous accounts of Ella Stowbody's fondness for chocolate peppermints . 
She watched Maud Dyer put her hand on Erik's shoulder to steady herself . 
Disgusting ! When Maud and Erik returned and the grouping shifted , Erik muttered at Carol , There's a boat on shore . 
Let's skip off and have a row . 
What will they think ? she worried . 
She saw Maud Dyer peer at Erik with moist possessive eyes . 
Yes ! Let's ! she said . 
She cried to the party , with the canonical amount of sprightliness , Good by , everybody . 
We'll wireless you from China . 
Erik smiled at her proudly . 
She considered him coatless , in white thin shirt . 
She was conscious of his male differentness , of his flat masculine sides , his thin thighs , his easy rowing . 
They talked of the library , of the movies . 
He hummed and she softly sang Swing Low , Sweet Chariot . 
A breeze shivered across the agate lake . 
The wrinkled water was like armor damascened and polished . 
The breeze flowed round the boat in a chill current . 
Carol drew the collar of her middy blouse over her bare throat . 
Afraid we'll have to go back , she said . 
Let's not go back to them yet . 
Let's keep along the shore . 
But you enjoy the cutting up ! Maud and you had a beautiful time . 
Why ! We just walked on the shore and talked about fishing ! She was relieved , and apologetic to her friend Maud . 
I'll tell you ! Let's land here and sit on the shore that bunch of hazel brush will shelter us from the wind and watch the sunset . 
Just a short while ! We don't want to go back and listen to them ! No , but She said nothing while he sped ashore . 
The keel clashed on the stones . 
He stood on the forward seat , holding out his hand . 
They were alone , in the ripple lapping silence . 
She rose slowly , slowly stepped over the water in the bottom of the old boat . 
She took his hand confidently . 
Unspeaking they sat on a bleached log , in a russet twilight which hinted of autumn . 
Linden leaves fluttered about them . 
I wish Are you cold now ? he whispered . 
But it was not with cold . 
I wish we could curl up in the leaves there , covered all up , and lie looking out at the dark . 
As though it was comfortably understood that he did not mean to be taken seriously . 
Like what all the poets say brown nymph and faun . 
No. I can't be a nymph any more . 
Too old Erik , am I old ? Am I faded and small towny ? Why , you're the youngest Your eyes are like a girl's . 
They're so well , I mean , like you believed everything . 
Even if you do teach me , I feel a thousand years older than you , instead of maybe a year younger . 
Yes , you are ! You're dear to believe it , Will ERIK ! Will you play with me ? A lot ? Perhaps . 
Would you really like to curl in the leaves and watch the stars swing by overhead ? I think it's rather better to be sitting here ! He twined his fingers with hers . 
And Erik , we must go back . 
Why ? It's somewhat late to outline all the history of social custom ! I know . 
Are you glad we ran away though ? Yes . 
She was quiet , perfectly simple . 
He circled her waist with a brusque arm . 
He was neither a peasant tailor , a potential artist , a social complication , nor a peril . 
He was himself , and in him , in the personality flowing from him , she was unreasoningly content . 
Not as coy or uneasy lovers but as companions they walked to the boat , and he lifted her up on the prow . 
She began to talk intently , as he rowed Erik , you've got to work ! You ought to be a personage . 
You're robbed of your kingdom . 
What will they say ? she wondered . 
All the way home Carol was embarrassed . 
Once Cy winked at her . 
She came into the house awkwardly defiant . 
Her husband , half asleep under the lamp , greeted her , Well , well , have nice time ? She could not answer . 
But his look did not sharpen . 
He began to wind his watch , yawning the old Welllllll , guess it's about time to turn in . 
Yet she was not glad . 
II Mrs. Bogart called next day . 
She had a hen like , crumb pecking , diligent appearance . 
Her smile was too innocent . 
The pecking started instantly Cy says you had lots of fun at the picnic yesterday . 
Did you enjoy it ? Oh yes . 
I raced Cy at swimming . 
He's so strong , isn't he ! Poor boy , just crazy to get into the war , too , but This Erik Valborg was along , wa'n't he ? Yes . 
I think he's an awful handsome fellow , and they say he's smart . 
Do you like him ? He seems very polite . 
Cy says you and him had a lovely boat ride . 
My , that must have been pleasant . 
Yes , except that I couldn't get Mr. Valborg to say a word . 
I wanted to ask him about the suit Mr. Hicks is making for my husband . 
But he insisted on singing . 
Still , it was restful , floating around on the water and singing . 
Don't you think it's a shame , Mrs. Bogart , that people in this town don't do more nice clean things like that , instead of all this horrible gossiping ? Yes . 
Her bonnet was awry she was incomparably dowdy . 
Is that Hugh crying ? I must run up to him . 
But up stairs she remembered that Mrs. Bogart had seen her walking with Erik from the railroad track into town , and she was chilly with disquietude . 
At the Jolly Seventeen , two days after , she was effusive to Maud Dyer , to Juanita Haydock . 
She fancied that every one was watching her , but she could not be sure , and in rare strong moments she did not care . 
She could rebel against the town's prying now that she had something , however indistinct , for which to rebel . 
In a passionate escape there must be not only a place from which to flee but a place to which to flee . 
She had known that she would gladly leave Gopher Prairie , leave Main Street and all that it signified , but she had had no destination . 
That destination was not Erik Valborg and the love of Erik . 
She continued to assure herself that she wasn't in love with him but merely fond of him , and interested in his success . 
Yet in him she had discovered both her need of youth and the fact that youth would welcome her . 
But universal and joyous youth rather resembled Erik . 
All week she thought of things she wished to say to him . 
She began to admit that she was lonely without him . 
It was at the Baptist church supper , a week after the picnic , that she saw him again . 
She had gone with Kennicott and Aunt Bessie to the supper , which was spread on oilcloth covered and trestle supported tables in the church basement . 
Erik was helping Myrtle Cass to fill coffee cups for the wait resses . 
The congregation had doffed their piety . 
He laughed with Myrtle , jogged her elbow when she was filling cups , made deep mock bows to the waitresses as they came up for coffee . 
Myrtle was enchanted by his humor . 
From the other end of the room , a matron among matrons , Carol observed Myrtle , and hated her , and caught herself at it . 
To be jealous of a wooden faced village girl ! But she kept it up . 
She detested Erik gloated over his gaucheries his breaks , she called them . 
When he was too expressive , too much like a Russian dancer , in saluting Deacon Pierson , Carol had the ecstasy of pain in seeing the deacon's sneer . 
From meanly hating him she rose to compassion as she saw that his eyes begged every one to like him . 
She perceived how inaccurate her judgments could be . 
At the picnic she had fancied that Maud Dyer looked upon Erik too sentimentally , and she had snarled , I hate these married women who cheapen themselves and feed on boys . 
But at the supper Maud was one of the waitresses she bustled with platters of cake , she was pleasant to old women and to Erik she gave no attention at all . 
It was a shock to know that at last there was something which could make her afraid of Mrs. Bogart's spying . 
I must get out of this . 
She said to Kennicott on their way home , Will ! I want to run away for a few days . 
Wouldn't you like to skip down to Chicago ? Still be pretty hot there . 
No fun in a big city till winter . 
What do you want to go for ? People ! To occupy my mind . 
Stimulus ? He spoke good naturedly . 
Who's been feeding you meat ? You got that stimulus' out of one of these fool stories about wives that don't know when they're well off . 
Stimulus ! Seriously , though , to cut out the jollying , I can't get away . 
Then why don't I run off by myself ? Why 'Tisn't the money , you understand . 
But what about Hugh ? Leave him with Aunt Bessie . 
It would be just for a few days . 
I don't think much of this business of leaving kids around . 
So you don't think I'll tell you I think we better stay put till after the war . 
Then we'll have a dandy long trip . 
No , I don't think you better plan much about going away now . 
So she was thrown at Erik . 
No splendor , no defiance . 
A self deceived little woman whispering in corners with a pretentious little man . 
No , he is not . 
His eyes are sweet when he looks at me . 
She pitied herself that her romance should be pitiful she sighed that in this colorless hour , to this austere self , it should seem tawdry . 
Then , in a very great desire of rebellion and unleashing of all her hatreds , The pettier and more tawdry it is , the more blame to Main Street . 
It shows how much I've been longing to escape . 
Any way out ! Any humility so long as I can flee . 
Main Street has done this to me . 
I came here eager for nobilities , ready for work , and now Any way out . 
They beat me with rods of dullness . 
They don't know , they don't understand how agonizing their complacent dullness is . 
Like ants and August sun on a wound . 
But all of the smart set went to the lawn festivals of the Episcopal Church , and were reprovingly polite to outsiders . 
The Harry Haydocks gave the last lawn festival of the season a splendor of Japanese lanterns and card tables and chicken patties and Neapolitan ice cream . 
Erik was no longer entirely an outsider . 
He was eating his ice cream with a group of the people most solidly in the Dyers , Myrtle Cass , Guy Pollock , the Jackson Elders . 
The Haydocks themselves kept aloof , but the others tolerated him . 
He would never , Carol fancied , be one of the town pillars , because he was not orthodox in hunting and motoring and poker . 
But he was winning approbation by his liveliness , his gaiety the qualities least important in him . 
When the group summoned Carol she made several very well taken points in regard to the weather Myrtle cried to Erik , Come on ! We don't belong with these old folks . 
I want to make you 'quainted with the jolliest girl , she comes from Wakamin , she's staying with Mary Howland . 
Carol saw him being profuse to the guest from Wakamin . 
She saw him confidentially strolling with Myrtle . 
She burst out to Mrs. Westlake , Valborg and Myrtle seem to have quite a crush on each other . 
Mrs. Westlake glanced at her curiously before she mumbled , Yes , don't they . 
I'm mad , to talk this way , Carol worried . 
She had regained a feeling of social virtue by telling Juanita Haydock how darling her lawn looked with the Japanese lanterns when she saw that Erik was stalking her . 
Though he was merely ambling about with his hands in his pockets , though he did not peep at her , she knew that he was calling her . 
She sidled away from Juanita . 
Carol ! I've got a wonderful chance ! Don't know but what some ways it might be better than going East to take art . 
I know something about wheat from my farming , and I worked a couple of months in the flour mill at Curlew when I got sick of tailoring . 
What do you think ? You said any work was artistic if it was done by an artist . 
And flour is so important . 
I mustn't tamper with his future to please my vanity . 
But she had no sure vision . 
She turned on him How can I decide ? It's up to you . 
Do you want to become a person like Lym Cass , or do you want to become a person like yes , like me ! Wait ! Don't be flattering . 
I am a person like you now ! I mean , I want to rebel . 
Only I'm not sure I can put through my schemes . 
I really can't draw much . 
I guess I have pretty fair taste in fabrics , but since I've known you I don't like to think about fussing with dress designing . 
But as a miller , I'd have the means books , piano , travel . 
I'm going to be frank and beastly . 
Oh , I know it probably I'm uneven . 
But I'm not unstable in thinking about this job in the mill and Myrtle . 
I know what I want . 
I want you ! Please , please , oh , please ! I do . 
I'm not a schoolboy any more . 
If I take Myrtle , it's to forget you . 
Please , please ! It's you that are unstable ! You talk at things and play at things , but you're scared . 
Would I mind it if you and I went off to poverty , and I had to dig ditches ? I would not ! But you would . 
I think you would come to like me , but you won't admit it . 
Do you like me ? Do you ? Yes No ! Please ! I can't talk any more . 
Mrs. Haydock is looking at us . 
O Erik , I am fond of you , but I'm afraid . 
What of ? Of Them ! Of my rulers Gopher Prairie . 
My dear boy , we are talking very foolishly . 
I am a normal wife and a good mother , and you are oh , a college freshman . 
You do like me ! I'm going to make you love me ! She looked at him once , recklessly , and walked away with a serene gait that was a disordered flight . 
Kennicott grumbled on their way home , You and this Valborg fellow seem quite chummy . 
He's interested in Myrtle Cass , and I was telling him how nice she is . 
In her room she marveled , I have become a liar . 
I'm snarled with lies and foggy analyses and desires I who was clear and sure . 
She hurried into Kennicott's room , sat on the edge of his bed . 
He flapped a drowsy welcoming hand at her from the expanse of quilt and dented pillows . 
Will , I really think I ought to trot off to St . 
Paul or Chicago or some place . 
I thought we settled all that , few nights ago ! Wait till we can have a real trip . 
He shook himself out of his drowsiness . 
You might give me a good night kiss . 
He held her lips against his for an intolerable time . 
Don't you like the old man any more ? he coaxed . 
He sat up and shyly fitted his palm about the slimness of her waist . 
I like you very much indeed . 
Even to herself it sounded flat . 
She longed to be able to throw into her voice the facile passion of a light woman . 
He sighed , I'm sorry you're so tired . 
Seems like But of course you aren't very strong . 
I can't face Will down demand the right . 
And I can't even go off and earn my living again . 
Out of the habit of it . 
He's driving me I'm afraid of what he's driving me to . 
That man in there , snoring in stale air , my husband ? Could any ceremony make him my husband ? No. I don't want to hurt him . 
I want to love him . 
I can't , when I'm thinking of Erik . 
Am I too honest a funny topsy turvy honesty the faithfulness of unfaith ? I wish I had a more compartmental mind , like men . 
I'm too monogamous toward Erik ! my child Erik , who needs me . 
If I could sleep CHAPTER XXXI THEIR night came unheralded . 
Kennicott was on a country call . 
It was cool but Carol huddled on the porch , rocking , meditating , rocking . 
The house was lonely and repellent , and though she sighed , I ought to go in and read so many things to read ought to go in , she remained . 
Suddenly Erik was coming , turning in , swinging open the screen door , touching her hand . 
Erik ! Saw your husband driving out of town . 
Well You mustn't stay more than five minutes . 
Couldn't stand not seeing you . 
Every day , towards evening , felt I had to see you pictured you so clear . 
I've been good though , staying away , haven't I ! And you must go on being good . 
Why must I ? We better not stay here on the porch . 
The Howlands across the street are such window peepers , and Mrs. Bogart She did not look at him but she could divine his tremulousness as he stumbled indoors . 
A moment ago the night had been coldly empty now it was incalculable , hot , treacherous . 
But it is women who are the calm realists once they discard the fetishes of the premarital hunt . 
Carol was serene as she murmured , Hungry ? I have some little honey colored cakes . 
You may have two , and then you must skip home . 
Take me up and let me see Hugh asleep . 
I don't believe Just a glimpse ! Well She doubtfully led the way to the hallroom nursery . 
Their heads close , Erik's curls pleasant as they touched her cheek , they looked in at the baby . 
Hugh was pink with slumber . 
He had burrowed into his pillow with such energy that it was almost smothering him . 
Beside it was a celluloid rhinoceros tight in his hand a torn picture of Old King Cole . 
Shhh ! said Carol , quite automatically . 
She tiptoed in to pat the pillow . 
As she returned to Erik she had a friendly sense of his waiting for her . 
They smiled at each other . 
She did not think of Kennicott , the baby's father . 
What she did think was that some one rather like Erik , an older and surer Erik , ought to be Hugh's father . 
The three of them would play incredible imaginative games . 
Carol ! You've told me about your own room . 
Let me peep in at it . 
But you mustn't stay , not a second . 
Will you be good ? R reasonably ! He was pale , large eyed , serious . 
You've got to be more than reasonably good ! She felt sensible and superior she was energetic about pushing open the door . 
Kennicott had always seemed out of place there but Erik surprisingly harmonized with the spirit of the room as he stroked the books , glanced at the prints . 
He held out his hands . 
She was weak , betrayed to a warm softness . 
Her head was tilted back . 
Her thoughts were formless but many colored . 
She felt his kiss , diffident and reverent , on her eyelid . 
Then she knew that it was impossible . 
Please ! she said sharply . 
He looked at her unyielding . 
I am fond of you , she said . 
How many thousands and millions of women must have said that ! And now you ! And it doesn't spoil everything . 
Dear , I do think there's a tiny streak of fairy in you whatever you do with it . 
Perhaps I'd have loved that once . 
But I'll keep a fondness for you . 
Impersonal I will be impersonal ! It needn't be just a thin talky fondness . 
You do need me , don't you ? Only you and my son need me . 
I've wanted so to be wanted ! Once I wanted love to be given to me . 
Now I'll be content if I can give . 
Almost content ! We women , we like to do things for men . 
Poor men ! We swoop on you when you're defenseless and fuss over you and insist on reforming you . 
But it's so pitifully deep in us . 
You'll be the one thing in which I haven't failed . 
Do something definite ! Even if it's just selling cottons . 
I can't stand any more . 
Please ! He was gone . 
And she was not relieved by the quiet of the house . 
She was empty and the house was empty and she needed him . 
She wanted to go on talking , to get this threshed out , to build a sane friendship . 
She wavered down to the living room , looked out of the bay window . 
He was not to be seen . 
She was walking past , and in the light from the corner arc lamp she quickly inspected the porch , the windows . 
Carol dropped the curtain , stood with movement and reflection paralyzed . 
Automatically , without reasoning , she mumbled , I will see him again soon and make him understand we must be friends . 
But The house is so empty . 
II Kennicott had seemed nervous and absent minded through that supper hour , two evenings after . 
He prowled about the living room , then growled What the dickens have you been saying to Ma Westlake ? Carol's book rattled . 
God only knows what else she says you said . 
It's not true , any of it ! I did like Mrs. Westlake , and I've called on her , and apparently she's gone and twisted everything I've said Sure . 
Didn't I tell you she would ? She's an old cat , like her pussyfooting , hand holding husband . 
Lord , if I was sick , I'd rather have a faith healer than Westlake , and she's another slice off the same bacon . 
What I can't understand though She waited , taut . 
is whatever possessed you to let her pump you , bright a girl as you are . 
But she was so motherly . 
And I didn't have any woman Vida 's become so married and proprietary . 
Well , next time you'll have better sense . 
He patted her head , flumped down behind his newspaper , said nothing more . 
Enemies leered through the windows , stole on her from the hall . 
She had no one save Erik . 
This kind good man Kennicott he was an elder brother . 
It was Erik , her fellow outcast , to whom she wanted to run for sanctuary . 
Through her storm she was , to the eye , sitting quietly with her fingers between the pages of a baby blue book on home dressmaking . 
But her dismay at Mrs. Westlake's treachery had risen to active dread . 
She waited for them to speak waited with foreboding . 
She repeated , I mustn't ever see Erik again . 
But the words did not register . 
She had no ecstatic indulgence in the sense of guilt which is , to the women of Main Street , the surest escape from blank tediousness . 
At five , crumpled in a chair in the living room , she started at the sound of the bell . 
Some one opened the door . 
Vida Sherwin charged into the room . 
Here's the one person I can trust ! Carol rejoiced . 
Vida was serious but affectionate . 
She bustled at Carol with , Oh , there you are , dearie , so glad t' find you in , sit down , want to talk to you . 
Vida fussily tugged over a large chair and launched out I've been hearing vague rumors you were interested in this Erik Valborg . 
I knew you couldn't be guilty , and I'm surer than ever of it now . 
Here we are , as blooming as a daisy . 
How does a respectable matron look when she feels guilty ? Carol sounded resentful . 
Why Oh , it would show ! Besides ! I know that you , of all people , are the one that can appreciate Dr . 
What have you been hearing ? Nothing , really . 
I just heard Mrs. Bogart say she'd seen you and Valborg walking together a lot . 
She looked at her nails . 
But I suspect you do like Valborg . 
Oh , I don't mean in any wrong way . 
But you're young you don't know what an innocent liking might drift into . 
You always pretend to be so sophisticated and all , but you're a baby . 
Just because you are so innocent , you don't know what evil thoughts may lurk in that fellow's brain . 
You don't know what it means to suffer . 
There are two insults which no human being will endure the assertion that he hasn't a sense of humor , and the doubly impertinent assertion that he has never known trouble . 
Carol said furiously , You think I don't suffer ? You think I've always had an easy No , you don't . 
I'm going to tell you something I've never told a living soul , not even Ray . 
The dam of repressed imagination which Vida had builded for years , which now , with Raymie off at the wars , she was building again , gave way . 
I was I liked Will terribly well . 
One time at a party oh , before he met you , of course but we held hands , and we were so happy . 
But I didn't feel I was really suited to him . 
Please don't think I still love him ! I see now that Ray was predestined to be my mate . 
Carol could not endure it . 
Vida believed that she had explained many deep and devious matters . 
She came out of her hysteria like a sparrow shaking off rain drops . 
And another thing People like you and me , who want to reform things , have to be particularly careful about appearances . 
Think how much better you can criticize conventional customs if you yourself live up to them , scrupulously . 
Then people can't say you're attacking them to excuse your own infractions . 
To Carol was given a sudden great philosophical understanding , an explanation of half the cautious reforms in his tory . 
It sets revolts aside to cool . 
It keeps strays in the flock . 
She began to look hurt , and Carol let her be oracular . 
Tragedy in neat blouses the eternal flame all nice and safe in a kerosene stove . 
Neither heroic faith nor heroic guilt . 
Carol snapped , Whatever I may do , I'll have you to understand that Will is only too safe ! She wished afterward that she had not been so lofty . 
How much would Aunt Bessie make of Whatever I may do ? When Kennicott came home he poked at things , and hemmed , and brought out , Saw aunty , this afternoon . 
She said you weren't very polite to her . 
He looked at her in a puzzled way and fled to his newspaper . 
She alternately considered ways of leaving Kennicott , and remembered his virtues , pitied his bewilderment in face of the subtle corroding sicknesses which he could not dose nor cut out . 
Didn't he perhaps need her more than did the book solaced Erik ? Suppose Will were to die , suddenly . 
Suppose she never again saw him at breakfast , silent but amiable , listening to her chatter . 
Suppose he never again played elephant for Hugh . 
Suppose he were sued by some vicious shrieking woman for malpractice . 
At her nervous push the door swung sharply in , struck a chair . 
He awoke , gasped , then in a steady voice What is it , dear ? Anything wrong ? She darted to him , fumbled for the familiar harsh bristly cheek . 
Nat Hicks was there , and he was not so deferential as he had been . 
At home she wondered if the little beast might not be suggesting himself as a rival to Erik , but that abysmal bedragglement she would not consider . 
She saw Juanita Haydock slowly walking past the house as Mrs. Westlake had once walked past . 
She met Mrs. Westlake in Uncle Whittier's store , and before that alert stare forgot her determination to be rude , and was shakily cordial . 
She felt as insecure as a shadowed criminal . 
She wished to see Erik , and wished that she had never seen him . 
She fancied that Kennicott was the only person in town who did not know all know incomparably more than there was to know about herself and Erik . 
She crouched in her chair as she imagined men talking of her , thick voiced , obscene , in barber shops and the tobacco stinking pool parlor . 
Through early autumn Fern Mullins was the only person who broke the suspense . 
The frivolous teacher had come to accept Carol as of her own youth , and though school had begun she rushed in daily to suggest dances , welsh rabbit parties . 
Fern begged her to go as chaperon to a barn dance in the country , on a Saturday evening . 
The next day , the storm crashed . 
CHAPTER XXXII I CAROL was on the back porch , tightening a bolt on the baby's go cart , this Sunday afternoon . 
Through an open window of the Bogart house she heard a screeching , heard Mrs. Bogart's haggish voice . 
did too , and there's no use your denying it no you don't , you march yourself right straight out of the house . 
never in my life heard of such . 
never had nobody talk to me like . 
walk in the ways of sin and nastiness . 
leave your clothes here , and heaven knows that's more than you deserve . 
any of your lip or I'll call the policeman . 
Another row with Cy , Carol inferred . 
She trundled the go cart down the back steps and tentatively wheeled it across the yard , proud of her repairs . 
She heard steps on the sidewalk . 
She saw not Cy Bogart but Fern Mullins , carrying a suit case , hurrying up the street with her head low . 
The widow , standing on the porch with buttery arms akimbo , yammered after the fleeing girl And don't you dare show your face on this block again . 
You can send the drayman for your trunk . 
My house has been contaminated long enough . 
Why the Lord should afflict me Fern was gone . 
The righteous widow glared , banged into the house , came out poking at her bonnet , marched away . 
By this time Carol was staring in a manner not visibly to be distinguished from the window peeping of the rest of Gopher Prairie . 
She saw Mrs. Bogart enter the Howland house , then the Casses' . 
Not till suppertime did she reach the Kennicotts . 
Who's the hussy , Sister Bogart ? Sit down and take it cool and tell us about it . 
Huh ? Kennicott was incredulous . 
The gutter comedy turned into high tragedy , with Nemesis in black kid gloves . 
The actual story was simple , depressing , and unimportant . 
As to details Mrs. Bogart was indefinite , and angry that she should be questioned . 
Fern Mullins and Cy had , the evening before , driven alone to a barn dance in the country . 
At the dance Cy had kissed Fern she confessed that . 
He had become soggily drunk . 
Fern had driven him home deposited him , retching and wabbling , on the Bogart porch . 
Never before had her boy been drunk , shrieked Mrs. Bogart . 
When Kennicott grunted , she owned , Well , maybe once or twice I've smelled licker on his breath . 
She also , with an air of being only too scrupulously exact , granted that sometimes he did not come home till morning . 
Anyway , never before had her boy fallen into the hands of a designing woman . 
What do you suppose Miss Mullins could design to do with him ? insisted Carol . 
Mrs. Bogart was puzzled , gave it up , went on . 
Fern had tried to deny it . 
I let her have it good . 
I wa'n't going to flinch from my bounden duty and let her think that decent folks had to stand for her vile talk . 
Carol was too sick to interrupt . 
It was Kennicott who cried , Oh , for God's sake quit it ! You haven't any idea what happened . 
You haven't given us a single proof yet that Fern is anything but a rattle brained youngster . 
She owned up to that much , so you can imagine Does that prove her a prostitute ? asked Carol . 
Carrie ! Don't you never use a word like that again ! wailed the outraged Puritan . 
Well , does it prove her to be a bad woman , that she took a taste of whisky ? I've done it myself ! That's different . 
Not that I approve your doing it . 
What do the Scriptures tell us ? Strong drink is a mocker' ! But that's entirely different from a teacher drinking with one of her own pupils . 
Yes , it does sound bad . 
Fern was silly , undoubtedly . 
But as a matter of fact she's only a year or two older than Cy and probably a good many years younger in experience of vice . 
She patted her black kid gloves , picked at a thread of her faded brown skirt , and sighed , He's a good boy , and awful affectionate if you treat him right . 
Some thinks he's terrible wild , but that's because he's young . 
You say this Mullins woman is too young and inexperienced to corrupt Cy . 
And that's what I told Professor Mott , too , being superintendent and he's a righteous man , not going autoing on the Sabbath like the school board members . 
And the professor as much as admitted he was suspicious of the Mullins woman himself . 
II Kennicott was less shocked and much less frightened than Carol , and more articulate in his description of Mrs. Bogart , when she had gone . 
Maud's manner indicated that the falsity of the story was an insignificant flaw in its general delightfulness . 
Carol crept to her room , sat with hands curled tight together as she listened to a plague of voices . 
She could hear the town yelping with it , every soul of them , gleeful at new details , panting to win importance by having details of their own to add . 
Not Kennicott nor Guy Pollock nor Champ Perry . 
He would sputter uneasy protest . 
She suddenly wondered what subterranean connection her interest in Erik had with this affair . 
She hastened there , trying not to be self conscious about the people who looked at her on the street . 
The clerk said indifferently that he guessed Miss Mullins was up in Room , and left Carol to find the way . 
She could not find the number . 
In the darkness at the end of a corridor she had to feel the aluminum figures on the door panels . 
She was startled once by a man's voice Yep ? Whadyuh want ? and fled . 
When she reached the right door she stood listening . 
She made out a long sobbing . 
There was no answer till her third knock then an alarmed Who is it ? Go away ! Her hatred of the town turned resolute as she pushed open the door . 
Yesterday she had seen Fern Mullins in boots and tweed skirt and canary yellow sweater , fleet and self possessed . 
Now she lay across the bed , in crumpled lavender cotton and shabby pumps , very feminine , utterly cowed . 
She lifted her head in stupid terror . 
Her hair was in tousled strings and her face was sallow , creased . 
Her eyes were a blur from weeping . 
I didn't ! I didn't ! was all she would say at first , and she repeated it while Carol kissed her cheek , stroked her hair , bathed her forehead . 
She rested then , while Carol looked about the room the welcome to strangers , the sanctuary of hospitable Main Street , the lucrative property of Kennicott's friend , Jackson Elder . 
It smelled of old linen and decaying carpet and ancient tobacco smoke . 
She did not try to draw out Fern's story Fern insisted on telling it . 
Cy promised to be good . 
He was , on the way out . 
There were a few workmen from Gopher Prairie at the dance , with many young farm people . 
Half a dozen squatters from a degenerate colony in a brush hidden hollow , planters of potatoes , suspected thieves , came in noisily drunk . 
Cy had two drinks from pocket flasks . 
Fern saw him fumbling among the overcoats piled on the feedbox at the far end of the barn soon after she heard a farmer declaring that some one had stolen his bottle . 
She taxed Cy with the theft he chuckled , Oh , it's just a joke I'm going to give it back . 
He demanded that she take a drink . 
Unless she did , he wouldn't return the bottle . 
I just brushed my lips with it , and gave it back to him , moaned Fern . 
She sat up , glared at Carol . 
Did you ever take a drink ? I have . 
I'd love to have one right now ! This contact with righteousness has about done me up ! Fern could laugh then . 
And I'd been having lots of fun dancing with the nicest young farmer , so strong and nice , and awfully intelligent . 
But I got uneasy when I saw how Cy was . 
So I doubt if I touched two drops of the beastly stuff . 
Do you suppose God is punishing me for even wanting wine ? My dear , Mrs. Bogart's god may be Main Street's god . 
But all the courageous intelligent people are fighting him . 
Fern danced again with the young farmer she forgot Cy while she was talking with a girl who had taken the University agricultural course . 
Cy could not have returned the bottle he came staggering toward her taking time to make himself offensive to every girl on the way and to dance a jig . 
She insisted on their returning . 
Cy went with her , chuckling and jigging . 
He kissed her , outside the door . 
And to think I used to think it was interesting to have men kiss you at a dance ! . 
She ignored the kiss , in the need of getting him home before he started a fight . 
A farmer helped her harness the buggy , while Cy snored in the seat . 
He awoke before they set out all the way home he alternately slept and tried to make love to her . 
I'm almost as strong as he is . 
I managed to keep him away while I drove such a rickety buggy . 
I didn't feel like a girl I felt like a scrubwoman no , I guess I was too scared to have any feelings at all . 
I got home , somehow . 
Mrs. Bogart was waiting up . 
I wonder if the livery man will be awake ? But I got through somehow . 
I took the buggy down to the stable , and got to my room . 
I locked my door , but Mrs. Bogart kept saying things , outside the door . 
Stood out there saying things about me , dreadful things , and rattling the knob . 
And all the while I could hear Cy in the back yard being sick . 
I don't think I'll ever marry any man . 
And then today She drove me right out of the house . 
She wouldn't listen to me , all morning . 
I suppose he's over his headache now . 
Even at breakfast he thought the whole thing was a grand joke . 
I suppose right this minute he's going around town boasting about his conquest . 
You understand oh , DON'T you understand ? I DID keep him away ! But I don't see how I can face my school . 
They say country towns are fine for bringing up boys in , but I can't believe this is me , lying here and saying this . 
I don't BELIEVE what happened last night . 
This was curious When I took off my dress last night it was a darling dress , I loved it so , but of course the mud had spoiled it . 
I cried over it and No matter . 
IV Sam Clark was president of the school board . 
When Carol told him Fern's story Sam looked sympathetic and neighborly , and Mrs. Clark sat by cooing , Oh , isn't that too bad . 
Carol was interrupted only when Mrs. Clark begged , Dear , don't speak so bitter about pious' people . 
There's lots of sincere practising Christians that are real tolerant . 
Unfortunately there are enough kindly people in the churches to keep them going . 
When Carol had finished , Mrs. Clark breathed , Poor girl I don't doubt her story a bit , and Sam rumbled , Yuh , sure . 
Miss Mullins is young and reckless , but everybody in town , except Ma Bogart , knows what Cy is . 
But Miss Mullins was a fool to go with him . 
But not wicked enough to pay for it with disgrace ? N no , but Sam avoided verdicts , clung to the entrancing horrors of the story . 
Ma Bogart cussed her out all morning , did she ? Jumped her neck , eh ? Ma certainly is one hell cat . 
Yes , you know how she is so vicious . 
Oh no , her best style ain't her viciousness . 
What she pulls in our store is to come in smiling with Christian Fortitude and keep a clerk busy for one hour while she picks out half a dozen fourpenny nails . 
I remember one time Sam ! Carol was uneasy . 
You'll fight for Fern , won't you ? When Mrs. Bogart came to see you did she make definite charges ? Well , yes , you might say she did . 
But the school board won't act on them ? Guess we'll more or less have to . 
But you'll exonerate Fern ? I'll do what I can for the girl personally , but you know what the board is . 
Might 's well admit it , Carrie I'm afraid there'll be a majority of the board against her . 
Sam moved uncomfortably , looked at his wife , scratched his head , sighed , said nothing . 
Our rule is to just decide the thing and announce the final decision , whether it's unanimous or not . 
The holy leer with which the priest said it remained in her mind . 
She was at the hotel before eight next morning . 
Fern longed to go to school , to face the tittering , but she was too shaky . 
Carol read to her all day and , by reassuring her , convinced her own self that the school board would be just . 
I don't want to roast anybody , but have you noticed the way she looks at men ? When will they have me on the scaffold ? Carol speculated . 
Nat Hicks stopped the Kennicotts on their way home . 
Carol hated him for his manner of assuming that they two had a mysterious understanding . 
ha ! Rats , I don't believe it , Kennicott muttered . 
He got Carol away before she was able to speak . 
She saw Erik passing the house , late , alone , and she stared after him , longing for the lively bitterness of the things he would say about the town . 
Kennicott had nothing for her but Oh , course , ev'body likes a juicy story , but they don't intend to be mean . 
She went up to bed proving to herself that the members of the school board were superior men . 
It was Tuesday afternoon before she learned that the board had met at ten in the morning and voted to accept Miss Fern Mullins's resignation . 
Sam Clark telephoned the news to her . 
We're not making any charges . 
We're just letting her resign . 
Would you like to drop over to the hotel and ask her to write the resignation , now we've accepted it ? Glad I could get the board to put it that way . 
But can't you see that the town will take this as proof of the charges ? We're not making no charges whatever ! Sam was obviously finding it hard to be patient . 
Fern left town that evening . 
Carol went with her to the train . 
The two girls elbowed through a silent lip licking crowd . 
Carol tried to stare them down but in face of the impishness of the boys and the bovine gaping of the men , she was embarrassed . 
Fern did not glance at them . 
Carol felt her arm tremble , though she was tearless , listless , plodding . 
She squeezed Carol's hand , said something unintelligible , stumbled up into the vestibule . 
Carol remembered that Miles Bjornstam had also taken a train . 
What would be the scene at the station when she herself took departure ? She walked up town behind two strangers . 
During it the other man laughed hoarsely . 
Carol turned off on a side street . 
He was humorously narrating some achievement to a group which included Nat Hicks , Del Snafflin , Bert Tybee the bartender , and A. Tennyson O'Hearn the shyster lawyer . 
They were men far older than Cy but they accepted him as one of their own , and encouraged him to go on . 
It was a week before she received from Fern a letter of which this was a part . 
Don't know what I will do . 
Don't seem to feel very well . 
May marry a fellow that's in love with me but he's so stupid that he makes me SCREAM . 
Dear Mrs. Kennicott you were the only one that believed me . 
I guess it's a joke on me , I was such a simp , I felt quite heroic while I was driving the buggy back that night keeping Cy away from me . 
I guess I expected the people in Gopher Prairie to admire me . 
I did use to be admired for my athletics at the U. just five months ago . 
For the benefit of beholders they were respectably vacuous . 
Thus barred from him , depressed in the thought of Fern , Carol was suddenly and for the first time convinced that she loved Erik . 
She told herself a thousand inspiriting things which he would say if he had the opportunity for them she admired him , loved him . 
But she was afraid to summon him . 
He understood , he did not come . 
She forgot her every doubt of him , and her discomfort in his background . 
Each day it seemed impossible to get through the desolation of not seeing him . 
There were wretched periods when she could not picture him . 
Usually he stood out in her mind in some little moment glancing up from his preposterous pressing iron , or running on the beach with Dave Dyer . 
But sometimes he had vanished he was only an opinion . 
As though he had been rehearsing his speech he instantly besought Saw your husband driving away . 
I've got to see you . 
I know ! People might see us . 
But they won't if we hike into the country . 
I'll wait for you by the elevator . 
Take as long as you want to oh , come quick ! In a few minutes , she promised . 
She murmured , I'll just talk to him for a quarter of an hour and come home . 
She put an her tweed coat and rubber overshoes , considering how honest and hopeless are rubbers , how clearly their chaperonage proved that she wasn't going to a lovers' tryst . 
She found him in the shadow of the grain elevator , sulkily kicking at a rail of the side track . 
As she came toward him she fancied that his whole body expanded . 
But he said nothing , nor she he patted her sleeve , she returned the pat , and they crossed the railroad tracks , found a road , clumped toward open country . 
Chilly night , but I like this melancholy gray , he said . 
They passed a moaning clump of trees and splashed along the wet road . 
He tucked her hand into the side pocket of his overcoat . 
She caught his thumb and , sighing , held it exactly as Hugh held hers when they went walking . 
The current maid was in for the evening , but was it safe to leave the baby with her ? The thought was distant and elusive . 
Erik began to talk , slowly , revealingly . 
But I didn't mind , because I could keep away from them outside . 
I was a marquis and collected tapestries that was after I was wounded in Padua . 
The only really bad time was when a tailor named Finkelfarb found a diary I was trying to keep and he read it aloud in the shop it was a bad fight . 
I got fined five dollars . 
But that's all gone now . 
His fingertip crept through the opening of her glove and smoothed her palm . 
She snatched her hand away , stripped off her glove , tucked her hand back into his . 
He was saying something about a wonderful person . 
In her tranquillity she let the words blow by and heeded only the beating wings of his voice . 
She was conscious that he was fumbling for impressive speech . 
Say , uh Carol , I've written a poem about you . 
I've never had a poem written about me ! It isn't really a poem . 
It's just some words that I love because it seems to me they catch what you are . 
Of course probably they won't seem so to anybody else , but Well Little and tender and merry and wise With eyes that meet my eyes . 
Do you get the idea the way I do ? Yes ! I'm terribly grateful ! And she was grateful while she impersonally noted how bad a verse it was . 
She was aware of the haggard beauty in the lowering night . 
Monstrous tattered clouds sprawled round a forlorn moon puddles and rocks glistened with inner light . 
They were passing a grove of scrub poplars , feeble by day but looming now like a menacing wall . 
They heard the branches dripping , the wet leaves sullenly plumping on the soggy earth . 
Waiting waiting everything is waiting , she whispered . 
She drew her hand from his , pressed her clenched fingers against her lips . 
She was lost in the somberness . 
I am happy so we must go home , before we have time to become unhappy . 
But can't we sit on a log for a minute and just listen ? No. Too wet . 
But I wish we could build a fire , and you could sit on my overcoat beside it . 
I'm a grand fire builder ! My cousin Lars and me spent a week one time in a cabin way up in the Big Woods , snowed in . 
The fireplace was filled with a dome of ice when we got there , but we chopped it out , and jammed the thing full of pine boughs . 
Couldn't we build a fire back here in the woods and sit by it for a while ? She pondered , half way between yielding and refusal . 
Everything , the night , his silhouette , the cautious treading future , was as undistinguishable as though she were drifting bodiless in a Fourth Dimension . 
While her mind groped , the lights of a motor car swooped round a bend in the road , and they stood farther apart . 
What ought I to do ? she mused . 
From behind the dimness of the windshield a voice , annoyed , sharp Hello there ! She realized that it was Kennicott . 
The irritation in his voice smoothed out . 
Having a walk ? They made schoolboyish sounds of assent . 
Pretty wet , isn't it ? Better ride back . 
Jump up in front here , Valborg . 
His manner of swinging open the door was a command . 
Carol was conscious that Erik was climbing in , that she was apparently to sit in the back , and that she had been left to open the rear door for herself . 
She feared what Kennicott would say to Erik . 
Kennicott was observing , Going to have some rain before the night 's over , all right . 
Been funny season this year , anyway . 
Never saw it with such a cold October and such a nice November . 
Yes , good chance of it , said Erik . 
Wish I'd had more time to go after the ducks this fall . 
By golly , what do you think ? Kennicott sounded appealing . 
Fellow wrote me from Man Trap Lake that he shot seven mallards and couple of canvas back in one hour ! That must have been fine , said Erik . 
But Kennicott was blustrously cheerful . 
She made a decision resolute and enduring . 
She would tell Kennicott What would she tell him ? She could not say that she loved Erik . 
DID she love him ? But she would have it out . 
Guess the cylinders are jam cram full of carbon again . 
Don't know but what maybe I'll have to put in another set of piston rings . 
He stopped on Main Street and clucked hospitably , There , that'll give you just a block to walk . 
Would Erik sneak away ? He stolidly moved to the back of the car , thrust in his hand , muttered , Good night Carol . 
I'm glad we had our walk . 
The car was flapping on . 
He was hidden from her by a corner drug store on Main Street ! Kennicott did not recognize her till he drew up before the house . 
Then he condescended , Better jump out here and I'll take the boat around back . 
Say , see if the back door is unlocked , will you ? She unlatched the door for him . 
She realized that she still carried the damp glove she had stripped off for Erik . 
She stood in the center of the living room , unmoving , in damp coat and muddy rubbers . 
Kennicott was as opaque as ever . 
She heard him shoveling coal into the furnace . 
He came through the kitchen energetically , but before he spoke to her he did stop in the hall , did wind the clock . 
He sauntered into the living room and his glance passed from her drenched hat to her smeared rubbers . 
She could hear she could hear , see , taste , smell , touch his Better take your coat off , Carrie looks kind of wet . 
I'm not going to do the out raged husband stunt . 
I like you and I respect you , and I'd probably look like a boob if I tried to be dramatic . 
But I think it's about time for you and Valborg to call a halt before you get in Dutch , like Fern Mullins did . 
I know all about it . 
But of course I knew how cold you were , I knew you wouldn't stand it even if Valborg did try to hold your hand or kiss you , so I didn't worry . 
He isn't a bad sort . 
And he's young and likes to gas about books . 
That isn't the real rub . 
She drooped on the couch , wearily , without elasticity . 
He yawned , Gimme your coat and rubbers , and while she stripped them off he twiddled his watch chain , felt the radiator , peered at the thermometer . 
He shook out her wraps in the hall , hung them up with exactly his usual care . 
He pushed a chair near to her and sat bolt up . 
He looked like a physician about to give sound and undesired advice . 
Before he could launch into his heavy discourse she desperately got in , Please ! I want you to know that I was going to tell you everything , tonight . 
Well , I don't suppose there's really much to tell . 
He appeals to something in here . 
He isn't just a young Swede farmer . 
He's an artist Wait now ! He's had a chance all evening to tell you what a whale of a fine fellow he is . 
I can't talk artistic , but Carrie , do you understand my work ? He leaned forward , thick capable hands on thick sturdy thighs , mature and slow , yet beseeching . 
No matter even if you are cold , I like you better than anybody in the world . 
One time I said that you were my soul . 
You're all the things that I see in a sunset when I'm driving in from the country , the things that I like but can't make poetry of . 
Do you realize what my job is ? I go round twenty four hours a day , in mud and blizzard , trying my damnedest to heal everybody , rich or poor . 
All I need is to have you here at home to welcome me . 
I don't expect you to be passionate not any more I don't but I do expect you to appreciate my work . 
I bring babies into the world , and save lives , and make cranky husbands quit being mean to their wives . 
I admit all you say except about Erik . 
And you welcome them , you encourage them to drag me down into their cave ! I won't stand it ! Do you hear ? Now , right now , I'm done . 
And it's Erik who gives me the courage . 
As a matter of fact , at my age he'll be running a one man tailor shop in some burg about the size of Schoenstrom . 
Then it's a hundred to one shot that he never will . 
Kennicott rose quickly , sat on the couch , took both her hands . 
Suppose he fails as he will ! Suppose he goes back to tailoring , and you're his wife . 
He won't even have enough savvy to get him a big shop . 
Your complexion will look fine after about fifteen years of baking that way , won't it ! And you'll be humped over like an old hag . 
And probably you'll live in one room back of the shop . 
He bent to kiss her neck . 
I don't want to be unfair . 
I guess love is a great thing , all right . 
Presently she sobbed , I won't ever see him again . 
The hot living room behind the tailor shop I don't love him enough for that . 
And you are Even if I were sure of him , sure he was the real thing , I don't think I could actually leave you . 
This marriage , it weaves people together . 
It's not easy to break , even when it ought to be broken . 
And do you want to break it ? No ! He lifted her , carried her up stairs , laid her on her bed , turned to the door . 
Come kiss me , she whimpered . 
He kissed her lightly and slipped away . 
For an hour she heard him moving about his room , lighting a cigar , drumming with his knuckles on a chair . 
She felt that he was a bulwark between her and the darkness that grew thicker as the delayed storm came down in sleet . 
II He was cheery and more casual than ever at breakfast . 
All day she tried to devise a way of giving Erik up . 
Telephone ? The village central would unquestionably listen in . 
A letter ? It might be found . 
Go to see him ? Impossible . 
That evening Kennicott gave her , without comment , an envelope . 
The letter was signed E. V. I know I can't do anything but make trouble for you , I think . 
I am going to Minneapolis tonight and from there as soon as I can either to New York or Chicago . 
I will do as big things as I can . 
I I can't write I love you too much God keep you . 
Until she heard the whistle which told her that the Minneapolis train was leaving town , she kept herself from thinking , from moving . 
Then it was all over . 
She had no plan nor desire for anything . 
When she caught Kennicott looking at her over his newspaper she fled to his arms , thrusting the paper aside , and for the first time in years they were lovers . 
But she knew that she still had no plan in life , save always to go along the same streets , past the same people , to the same shops . 
III A week after Erik's going the maid startled her by announcing , There's a Mr. Valborg down stairs say he vant to see you . 
She was conscious of the maid's interested stare , angry at this shattering of the calm in which she had hidden . 
She crept down , peeped into the living room . 
It was not Erik Valborg who stood there it was a small , gray bearded , yellow faced man in mucky boots , canvas jacket , and red mittens . 
He glowered at her with shrewd red eyes . 
You de doc's wife ? Yes . 
I'm Adolph Valborg , from up by Jefferson . 
Oh ! He was a monkey faced little man , and not gentle . 
What you done wit' my son ? I don't think I understand you . 
I t'ink you're going to understand before I get t'rough ! Where is he ? Why , really I presume that he's in Minneapolis . 
You presume ! He looked through her with a contemptuousness such as she could not have imagined . 
Only an insane contortion of spelling could portray his lyric whine , his mangled consonants . 
I'm not one of your farmwomen . 
I don't know where your son is , and there's no reason why I should know . 
Her defiance ran out in face of his immense flaxen stolidity . 
For one time a woman like you is going to hear de trut' about what you are , and no fine city words to it , needer . 
Really , Mr. Valborg What you done wit' him ? Heh ? I'll yoost tell you what you done ! He was a good boy , even if he was a damn fool . 
I want him back on de farm . 
He don't make enough money tailoring . 
And I can't get me no hired man ! I want to take him back on de farm . 
She could smell the manure and sweat . 
It ain't no use talkin' to women like you . 
Get no trut' out of you . 
But next time I go by your husband ! He was marching into the hall . 
Carol flung herself on him , her clenching hand on his hayseed dusty shoulder . 
She heard the word very plainly . 
She did not quite reach the couch . 
Her knees gave way , she pitched forward . 
She heard her mind saying , You haven't fainted . 
But she could not move . 
When Kennicott arrived she was lying on the couch . 
What's happened , Carrie ? You haven't got a bit of blood in your face . 
You've got to be sweet to me , and kind ! I'm going to California mountains , sea . 
Please don't argue about it , because I'm going . 
You and I. Leave the kid here with Aunt Bessie . 
Now ! Well yes , just as soon as we can get away . 
Now don't talk any more . 
Just imagine you've already started . 
He smoothed her hair , and not till after supper did he continue I meant it about California . 
But I think we better wait three weeks or so , till I get hold of some young fellow released from the medical corps to take my practice . 
And if people are gossiping , you don't want to give them a chance by running away . 
Can you stand it and face 'em for three weeks or so ? Yes , she said emptily . 
IV People covertly stared at her on the street . 
Getting much sugar in at the store now ? Guy Pollock crossed the street to be pleasant apropos of California and new novels . 
Vida Sherwin dragged her to the Jolly Seventeen . 
There , with every one rigidly listening , Maud Dyer shot at Carol , I hear Erik has left town . 
Yes , so I hear . 
In fact , he called me up told me he had been offered a lovely job in the city . 
He would have been valuable if we'd tried to start the dramatic association again . 
Still , I wouldn't be here for the association myself , because Will is all in from work , and I'm thinking of taking him to California . 
Before they could question her again Carol escorted in with drum and fife the topic of Raymie Wutherspoon . 
Vida had news from her husband . 
He had been gassed in the trenches , had been in a hospital for two weeks , had been promoted to major , was learning French . 
She left Hugh with Aunt Bessie . 
But for Kennicott she would have taken him . 
She hoped that in some miraculous way yet unrevealed she might find it possible to remain in California . 
She did not want to see Gopher Prairie again . 
Did Carol , Kennicott inquired , wish to stop in Minneapolis to buy new clothes ? No ! I want to get as far away as I can as soon as I can . 
Let's wait till Los Angeles . 
Sure , sure ! Just as you like . 
Cheer up ! We're going to have a large wide time , and everything 'll be different when we come back . 
VI Dusk on a snowy December afternoon . 
The sleeper which would connect at Kansas City with the California train rolled out of St . 
Paul with a chick a chick , chick a chick , chick a chick as it crossed the other tracks . 
It bumped through the factory belt , gained speed . 
Carol could see nothing but gray fields , which had closed in on her all the way from Gopher Prairie . 
For an hour , in Minneapolis , I must have been near Erik . 
He's still there , somewhere . 
He'll be gone when I come back . 
I'll never know where he has gone . 
As Kennicott switched on the seat light she turned drearily to the illustrations in a motion picture magazine . 
CHAPTER XXXIV THEY journeyed for three and a half months . 
They saw the Grand Canyon , the adobe walls of Sante Fe and , in a drive from El Paso into Mexico , their first foreign land . 
Her only struggle was in coaxing Kennicott not to spend all his time with the tourists from the ten thousand other Gopher Prairies . 
But Kennicott gave promise of learning to play . 
Carol was touched by his efforts to enjoy picture galleries , and the dogged way in which he accumulated dates and dimensions when they followed monkish guides through missions . 
In March she willingly agreed with Kennicott that it was time to go home . 
She was longing for Hugh . 
They left Monterey on April first , on a day of high blue skies and poppies and a summer sea . 
As the train struck in among the hills she resolved , I'm going to love the fine Will Kennicott quality that there is in Gopher Prairie . 
The nobility of good sense . 
It will be sweet to see Vida and Guy and the Clarks . 
And I'm going to see my baby ! All the words he'll be able to say now ! It's a new start . 
The afternoon light was as reluctant as a winter dawn . 
This is a useful market center , an interesting pioneer post , but it is not a home for me , meditated the stranger Carol . 
Kennicott suggested , I'd 'phone for a flivver but it'd take quite a while for it to get here . 
They stepped uncomfortably from the safety of the plank platform and , balancing on their toes , taking cautious strides , ventured along the road . 
The sleety rain was turning to snow . 
The air was stealthily cold . 
Beneath an inch of water was a layer of ice , so that as they wavered with their suit cases they slid and almost fell . 
The wet snow drenched their gloves the water underfoot splashed their itching ankles . 
They scuffled inch by inch for three blocks . 
In front of Harry Haydock's Kennicott sighed We better stop in here and 'phone for a machine . 
She followed him like a wet kitten . 
When Kennicott boasted , We went through the mission at Santa Barbara , Harry broke in , Yeh , that's an interesting old mission . 
Say , I'll never forget that hotel there , doc . 
Why , the rooms were made just like these old monasteries . 
Juanita and I went from Santa Barbara to San Luis Obispo . 
You folks go to San Luis Obispo ? No , but Well you ought to gone to San Luis Obispo . 
They saw the Ford sedan making its way over the water lined ice , through the snow storm , like a tug boat in a fog . 
The driver stopped at a corner . 
The car skidded , it turned about with comic reluctance , crashed into a tree , and stood tilted on a broken wheel . 
Carol gurgled , No , I think we'd better walk probably make better time , and I'm just crazy to see my baby . 
With their suit cases they waddled on . 
Their coats were soaked through . 
Carol had forgotten her facile hopes . 
She looked about with impersonal eyes . 
But Kennicott , through rain blurred lashes , caught the glory that was Back Home . 
She noted bare tree trunks , black branches , the spongy brown earth between patches of decayed snow on the lawns . 
The vacant lots were full of tall dead weeds . 
Stripped of summer leaves the houses were hopeless temporary shelters . 
Kennicott chuckled , By golly , look down there ! Jack Elder must have painted his garage . 
And look ! Martin Mahoney has put up a new fence around his chicken yard . 
Say , that's a good fence , eh ? Chicken tight and dog tight . 
That's certainly a dandy fence . 
Wonder how much it cost a yard ? Yes , sir , they been building right along , even in winter . 
Got more enterprise than these Californians . 
Pretty good to be home , eh ? She noted that all winter long the citizens had been throwing garbage into their back yards , to be cleaned up in spring . 
The recent thaw had disclosed heaps of ashes , dog bones , torn bedding , clotted paint cans , all half covered by the icy pools which filled the hollows of the yards . 
The refuse had stained the water to vile colors of waste thin red , sour yellow , streaky brown . 
Kennicott chuckled , Look over there on Main Street ! They got the feed store all fixed up , and a new sign on it , black and gold . 
That'll improve the appearance of the block a lot . 
She noted that the few people whom they passed wore their raggedest coats for the evil day . 
They were scarecrows in a shanty town . 
Kennicott chuckled , Look who's coming ! It's Sam Clark ! Gosh , all rigged out for the weather . 
Perhaps I should never have gone away . 
I'm out of practise in lying . 
I wish they would get it over ! Just a block more and my baby ! They were home . 
She brushed past the welcoming Aunt Bessie and knelt by Hugh . 
By golly , he knows us just as if we'd never been away ! said Kennicott . 
Will you forgive mummy for going away ? Will you ? she whispered . 
She was cheerful as the snow began to conceal the slatternly yards . 
She assured herself that the streets of New York and Chicago were as ugly as Gopher Prairie in such weather she dismissed the thought , But they do have charming interiors for refuge . 
She sang as she energetically looked over Hugh's clothes . 
The afternoon grew old and dark . 
Carol took the baby into her own room . 
The maid came in complaining , I can't get no extra milk to make chipped beef for supper . 
Hugh was sleepy , and he had been spoiled by Aunt Bessie . 
Even to a returned mother , his whining and his trick of seven times snatching her silver brush were fatiguing . 
As a background , behind the noises of Hugh and the kitchen , the house reeked with a colorless stillness . 
From the window she heard Kennicott greeting the Widow Bogart as he had always done , always , every snowy evening Guess this 'll keep up all night . 
There they were , the furnace sounds , unalterable , eternal removing ashes , shoveling coal . 
She was back home ! Nothing had changed . 
She had never been away . 
Never had she been quite so far from going away as now when he believed she had just come back . 
She felt oozing through the walls the spirit of small houses and righteous people . 
At that instant she knew that in running away she had merely hidden her doubts behind the officious stir of travel . 
Dear God , don't let me begin agonizing again ! she sobbed . 
Wait for mummy a second ! She hastened down to the cellar , to Kennicott . 
He was standing before the furnace . 
A glow from the drafts fell on the smooth gray cement floor at his feet . 
Unconscious of her , he stooped and peered in at the blue flames among the coals . 
He closed the door briskly , and made a whirling gesture with his right hand , out of pure bliss . 
Why , hello , old lady ! Pretty darn good to be back , eh ? Yes , she lied , while she quaked , Not now . 
I can't face the job of explaining now . 
And I'm going to break his heart ! She smiled at him . 
She tidied his sacred cellar by throwing an empty bluing bottle into the trash bin . 
She mourned , It's only the baby that holds me . 
If Hugh died She fled upstairs in panic and made sure that nothing had happened to Hugh in these four minutes . 
She saw a pencil mark on a window sill . 
She had made it on a September day when she had been planning a picnic for Fern Mullins and Erik . 
Fern and she had been hysterical with nonsense , had invented mad parties for all the coming winter . 
She glanced across the alley at the room which Fern had occupied . 
A rag of a gray curtain masked the still window . 
She tried to think of some one to whom she wanted to telephone . 
The Sam Clarks called that evening and encouraged her to describe the missions . 
A dozen times they told her how glad they were to have her back . 
It is good to be wanted , she thought . 
But Oh , is all life , always , an unresolved But ? CHAPTER XXXV SHE tried to be content , which was a contradiction in terms . 
She fanatically cleaned house all April . 
She knitted a sweater for Hugh . 
She was diligent at Red Cross work . 
Carol was volunteer nurse when Mrs. Champ Perry suddenly died of pneumonia . 
The rooms over the store were silent . 
He could not do his work as buyer at the elevator . 
Farmers coming in with sled loads of wheat complained that Champ could not read the scale , that he seemed always to be watching some one back in the darkness of the bins . 
He was seen slipping through alleys , talking to himself , trying to avoid observation , creeping at last to the cemetery . 
The elevator company , Ezra Stowbody president , let him go . 
The company , Ezra explained to Carol , had no funds for giving pensions . 
But it proved that Mr. Bert Tybee , the former bartender , desired the postmastership . 
At her solicitation Lyman Cass gave Champ a warm berth as night watchman . 
Small boys played a good many tricks on Champ when he fell asleep at the mill . 
II She had vicarious happiness in the return of Major Raymond Wutherspoon . 
He was well , but still weak from having been gassed he had been discharged and he came home as the first of the war veterans . 
It was rumored that he surprised Vida by coming unannounced , that Vida fainted when she saw him , and for a night and day would not share him with the town . 
When Carol saw them Vida was hazy about everything except Raymie , and never went so far from him that she could not slip her hand under his . 
Without understanding why Carol was troubled by this intensity . 
And Raymie surely this was not Raymie , but a sterner brother of his , this man with the tight blouse , the shoulder emblems , the trim legs in boots . 
His face seemed different , his lips more tight . 
Kennicott was respectful as he inquired whether the Germans had good aeroplanes , and what a salient was , and a cootie , and Going West . 
In a week Major Wutherspoon was made full manager of the Bon Ton . 
Harry Haydock was going to devote himself to the half dozen branch stores which he was establishing at crossroads hamlets . 
Ray still needed nursing , she explained . 
When Carol saw him with his uniform off , in a pepper and salt suit and a new gray felt hat , she was disappointed . 
III The town was booming , as a result of the war price of wheat . 
The wheat money did not remain in the pockets of the farmers the towns existed to take care of all that . 
Iowa farmers were selling their land at four hundred dollars an acre and coming into Minnesota . 
But whoever bought or sold or mortgaged , the townsmen invited themselves to the feast millers , real estate men , lawyers , merchants , and Dr . 
They bought land at a hundred and fifty , sold it next day at a hundred and seventy , and bought again . 
In three months Kennicott made seven thousand dollars , which was rather more than four times as much as society paid him for healing the sick . 
In early summer began a campaign of boosting . 
The Commercial Club decided that Gopher Prairie was not only a wheat center but also the perfect site for factories , summer cottages , and state institutions . 
In charge of the campaign was Mr. James Blausser , who had recently come to town to speculate in land . 
Mr. Blausser was known as a Hustler . 
He liked to be called Honest Jim . 
He was a bulky , gauche , noisy , humorous man , with narrow eyes , a rustic complexion , large red hands , and brilliant clothes . 
He was attentive to all women . 
He was the first man in town who had not been sensitive enough to feel Carol's aloofness . 
He was a layer on of hands . 
He never came to the house without trying to paw her . 
He touched her arm , let his fist brush her side . 
She hated the man , and she was afraid of him . 
She wondered if he had heard of Erik , and was taking advantage . 
And he's pretty cute , too . 
Any mountain will be tickled to death to locate here once we get the White Way in ! The town welcomed Mr. Blausser as fully as Carol snubbed him . 
Americanism , and Pointing with Pride . 
Harry Haydock , as chairman , introduced Honest Jim Blausser . 
He smiled on his warm personal friends and fellow boosters , and boomed I certainly was astonished in the streets of our lovely little city , the other day . 
You take a genuwine , honest to God homo Americanibus and there ain't anything he's afraid to tackle . 
They say we can't make Gopher Prairie , God bless her ! just as big as Minneapolis or St . 
Now let me nail that lie right here and now . 
You may not believe it , but there ain't one first class skyscraper in the whole works . 
The boosters' campaign was on . 
The town sought that efficient and modern variety of fame which is known as publicity . 
The band was reorganized , and provided by the Commercial Club with uniforms of purple and gold . 
The amateur baseball team hired a semi professional pitcher from Des Moines , and made a schedule of games with every town for fifty miles about . 
The citizens accompanied it as rooters , in a special car , with banners lettered Watch Gopher Prairie Grow , and with the band playing Smile , Smile , Smile . 
Whether the team won or lost the Dauntless loyally shrieked , Boost , Boys , and Boost Together Put Gopher Prairie on the Map Brilliant Record of Our Matchless Team . 
Then , glory of glories , the town put in a White Way . 
White Ways were in fashion in the Middlewest . 
They were composed of ornamented posts with clusters of high powered electric lights along two or three blocks on Main Street . 
The Dauntless confessed White Way Is Installed Town Lit Up Like Broadway Speech by Hon . 
James Blausser Come On You Twin Cities Our Hat Is In the Ring . 
The Commercial Club issued a booklet prepared by a great and expensive literary person from a Minneapolis advertising agency , a red headed young man who smoked cigarettes in a long amber holder . 
Carol read the booklet with a certain wonder . 
She learned , in brief , that this was the one Logical Location for factories and wholesale houses . 
THERE'S where I want to go to that model town Gopher Prairie , said Carol . 
Retired farmers were moving into town . 
The price of lots had increased a third . 
But Carol could discover no more pictures nor interesting food nor gracious voices nor amusing conversation nor questing minds . 
She could , she asserted , endure a shabby but modest town the town shabby and egomaniac she could not endure . 
She could nurse Champ Perry , and warm to the neighborliness of Sam Clark , but she could not sit applauding Honest Jim Blausser . 
Kennicott had begged her , in courtship days , to convert the town to beauty . 
If it was now as beautiful as Mr. Blausser and the Dauntless said , then her work was over , and she could go . 
CHAPTER XXXVI KENNICOTT was not so inhumanly patient that he could continue to forgive Carol's heresies , to woo her as he had on the venture to California . 
She tried to be inconspicuous , but she was betrayed by her failure to glow over the boosting . 
Kennicott believed in it demanded that she say patriotic things about the White Way and the new factory . 
He snorted , By golly , I've done all I could , and now I expect you to play the game . 
The dim injustice of not being understood even by his son left him irritable . 
An event which did not directly touch them brought down his wrath . 
In the early autumn , news came from Wakamin that the sheriff had forbidden an organizer for the National Nonpartisan League to speak anywhere in the county . 
The organizer had defied the sheriff , and announced that in a few days he would address a farmers' political meeting . 
The story was threshed out in Dave Dyer's drug store , with Sam Clark , Kennicott , and Carol present . 
Through supper time she knew that he was bubbling and would soon boil over . 
Whenever it comes right down to a question of defending Americanism and our constitutional rights , it's justifiable to set aside ordinary procedure . 
Of course , since we're at war with Germany , anything that any one of us doesn't like is pro German , whether it's business competition or bad music . 
If we were fighting England , you'd call the radicals pro English . 
When this war is over , I suppose you'll be calling them red anarchists . 
Now he bayed That'll be about all from you ! I've stood for your sneering at this town , and saying how ugly and dull it is . 
I've stood for your refusing to appreciate good fellows like Sam . 
I've even stood for your ridiculing our Watch Gopher Prairie Grow campaign . 
But one thing I'm not going to stand I'm not going to stand my own wife being seditious . 
Might have known you'd oppose any decent constructive work for the town or for You're right . 
All I've done has been in line . 
I don't belong to Gopher Prairie . 
That isn't meant as a condemnation of Gopher Prairie , and it may be a condemnation of me . 
All right ! I don't care ! I don't belong here , and I'm going . 
I'm not asking permission any more . 
Do you mind telling me , if it isn't too much trouble , how long you're going for ? I don't know . 
Well , of course , I'll be tickled to death to sell out my practise and go anywhere you say . 
If you had five kids and no hired girl , and had to help with the chores and separate the cream , like these farmers' wives , then you wouldn't be so discontented . 
That's what most men and women like you WOULD say . 
That's how they would explain all I am and all I want . 
And I shouldn't argue with them . 
These business men , from their crushing labors of sitting in an office seven hours a day , would calmly recommend that I have a dozen children . 
As it happens , I've done that sort of thing . 
I was just bedraggled and unhappy . 
It's work but not my work . 
I could run an office or a library , or nurse and teach children . 
But solitary dish washing isn't enough to satisfy me or many other women . 
We're going to chuck it . 
That's why I'm going to take him with me . 
Suppose I refuse ? You won't ! Forlornly , Uh Carrie , what the devil is it you want , anyway ? Oh , conversation ! No , it's much more than that . 
I think it's a greatness of life a refusal to be content with even the healthiest mud . 
Don't you know that nobody ever solved a problem by running away from it ? Perhaps . 
I'm going away to be quiet and think . 
I'm I'm going ! I have a right to my own life . 
So have I to mine ! Well ? I have a right to my life and you're it , you're my life ! You've made yourself so . 
I'm damned if I'll agree to all your freak notions , but I will say I've got to depend on you . 
Can you ? He moved uneasily . 
II For a month they discussed it . 
At most he agreed to a public theory that she was going to take a short trip and see what the East was like in wartime . 
She set out for Washington in October just before the war ended . 
Hugh was to go with her , despite the wails and rather extensive comments of Aunt Bessie . 
She wondered if she might not encounter Erik in the East but it was a chance thought , soon forgotten . 
She waved to him as long as she could , and when he was lost she wanted to leap from the vestibule and run back to him . 
She thought of a hundred tendernesses she had neglected . 
She had her freedom , and it was empty . 
The moment was not the highest of her life , but the lowest and most desolate , which was altogether excellent , for instead of slipping downward she began to climb . 
She sighed , I couldn't do this if it weren't for Will's kindness , his giving me money . 
I'm tired of playing train . 
Let's go see Auntie Bogart . 
Oh , NO ! Do you really like Mrs. Bogart ? Yes . 
She gives me cookies and she tells me about the Dear Lord . 
You never tell me about the Dear Lord . 
Why don't you tell me about the Dear Lord ? Auntie Bogart says I'm going to be a preacher . 
He was a serious and literal person , and rather humorless . 
She kissed his frown , and marveled I am running away from my husband , after liking a Swedish ne'er do well and expressing immoral opinions , just as in a romantic story . 
And my own son reproves me because I haven't given him religious instruction . 
But the story doesn't go right . 
I'm neither groaning nor being dramatically saved . 
I keep on running away , and I enjoy it . 
I'm mad with joy over it . 
And cookies ? Cookies ? Oh , most decidedly cookies . 
We've had enough of bread and porridge . 
We'd get sick on too many cookies , but ever so much sicker on no cookies at all . 
It is , O male Kennicott ! Huh ! said Kennicott II , and went to sleep on her shoulder . 
Mrs. Kennicott confided to Ye Scribe that she will be connected with one of the multifarious war activities now centering in the Nation's Capital for a brief period before returning . 
Her countless friends who appreciate her splendid labors with the local Red Cross realize how valuable she will be to any war board with which she chooses to become connected . 
Another reason why you'd better Watch Gopher Prairie Grow . 
Mr. and Mrs. David Dyer , Mrs. Dyer's sister , Mrs. Jennie Dayborn of Jackrabbit , and Dr . 
Will Kennicott drove to Minniemashie on Tuesday for a delightful picnic . 
CHAPTER XXXVII I SHE found employment in the Bureau of War Risk Insurance . 
Though the armistice with Germany was signed a few weeks after her coming to Washington , the work of the bureau continued . 
She filed correspondence all day then she dictated answers to letters of inquiry . 
It was an endurance of monotonous details , yet she asserted that she had found real work . 
She discovered that in the afternoon , office routine stretches to the grave . 
But she also discovered that business women may have friendships and enmities as frankly as men and may revel in a bliss which no housewife attains a free Sunday . 
She felt that she was no longer one half of a marriage but the whole of a human being . 
II Washington gave her all the graciousness in which she had had faith white columns seen across leafy parks , spacious avenues , twisty alleys . 
Daily she passed a dark square house with a hint of magnolias and a courtyard behind it , and a tall curtained second story window through which a woman was always peering . 
The woman was mystery , romance , a story which told itself differently every day now she was a murderess , now the neglected wife of an ambassador . 
Her days were swift , and she knew that in her folly of running away she had found the courage to be wise . 
She had a dispiriting first month of hunting lodgings in the crowded city . 
She had to roost in a hall room in a moldy mansion conducted by an indignant decayed gentlewoman , and leave Hugh to the care of a doubtful nurse . 
But later she made a home . 
III Her first acquaintances were the members of the Tincomb Methodist Church , a vast red brick tabernacle . 
Carol recognized in Washington as she had in California a transplanted and guarded Main Street . 
Two thirds of the church members had come from Gopher Prairies . 
a thick streak of Main Street . 
But she found a Washington which did not cleave to Main Street . 
The captain introduced her to the secretary of a congressman , a cynical young widow with many acquaintances in the navy . 
Through her Carol met commanders and majors , newspapermen , chemists and geographers and fiscal experts from the bureaus , and a teacher who was a familiar of the militant suffrage headquarters . 
The teacher took her to headquarters . 
Carol never became a prominent suffragist . 
Indeed her only recognized position was as an able addresser of envelopes . 
With the congressman's secretary and the teacher Carol leased a small flat . 
Here she found home , her own place and her own people . 
She had , though it absorbed most of her salary , an excellent nurse for Hugh . 
She herself put him to bed and played with him on holidays . 
It was not at all the artist's studio of which , because of its persistence in fiction , she had dreamed . 
Most of them were in offices all day , and thought more in card catalogues or statistics than in mass and color . 
But they played , very simply , and they saw no reason why anything which exists cannot also be acknowledged . 
She was sometimes shocked quite as she had shocked Gopher Prairie by these girls with their cigarettes and elfish knowledge . 
When they were most eager about soviets or canoeing , she listened , longed to have some special learning which would distinguish her , and sighed that her adventure had come so late . 
Kennicott and Main Street had drained her self reliance the presence of Hugh made her feel temporary . 
Some day oh , she'd have to take him back to open fields and the right to climb about hay lofts . 
Yet they seemed to be as efficient as the Sam Clarks . 
She concluded that it was because they were of secure reputation , not hemmed in by the fire of provincial jealousies . 
Kennicott had asserted that the villager's lack of courtesy is due to his poverty . 
We're no millionaire dudes , he boasted . 
Nor could she upon inquiry learn that many of this reckless race died in the poorhouse . 
That institution is reserved for men like Kennicott who , after devoting fifty years to putting aside a stake , incontinently invest the stake in spurious oil stocks . 
IV She was encouraged to believe that she had not been abnormal in viewing Gopher Prairie as unduly tedious and slatternly . 
But she also learned that by comparison Gopher Prairie was a model of daring color , clever planning , and frenzied intellectuality . 
New England mill towns with the hands living in rows of cottages like blocks of lava . 
A Southern town , full of the magnolias and white columns which Carol had accepted as proof of romance , but hating the negroes , obsequious to the Old Families . 
A Western mining settlement like a tumor . 
V The chart which plots Carol's progress is not easy to read . 
The lines are broken and uncertain of direction often instead of rising they sink in wavering scrawls and the colors are watery blue and pink and the dim gray of rubbed pencil marks . 
A few lines are traceable . 
Unhappy women are given to protecting their sensitiveness by cynical gossip , by whining , by high church and new thought religions , or by a fog of vagueness . 
Carol had hidden in none of these refuges from reality , but she , who was tender and merry , had been made timorous by Gopher Prairie . 
Even her flight had been but the temporary courage of panic . 
The thing she gained in Washington was not information about office systems and labor unions but renewed courage , that amiable contempt called poise . 
Her glimpse of tasks involving millions of people and a score of nations reduced Main Street from bloated importance to its actual pettiness . 
She could never again be quite so awed by the power with which she herself had endowed the Vidas and Blaussers and Bogarts . 
CHAPTER XXXVIII SHE had lived in Washington for a year . 
She was tired of the office . 
It was tolerable , far more tolerable than housework , but it was not adventurous . 
She was having tea and cinnamon toast , alone at a small round table on the balcony of Rauscher's Confiserie . 
She stopped , her heart stopped . 
Coming toward her were Harry and Juanita Haydock . 
She was definitely sorry to hear that they were to leave at nine that evening , and she clung to them as long as she could . 
She took them to St . 
Stooped , her elbows on the table , she heard with excitement that Cy Bogart had the 'flu , but of course he was too gol darn mean to die of it . 
Will wrote me that Mr. Blausser has gone away . 
How did he get on ? Fine ! Fine ! Great loss to the town . 
She fancied that a man with dinner coat and waxed mustache glanced superciliously at Harry's highly form fitting bright brown suit and Juanita's tan silk frock , which was doubtful at the seams . 
She glared back , defending her own , daring the world not to appreciate them . 
Then , waving to them , she lost them down the long train shed . 
She stood reading the list of stations Harrisburg , Pittsburg , Chicago . 
But that night they had at the flat a man just back from Finland . 
II She was on the Powhatan roof with the captain . 
At a table , somewhat vociferously buying improbable soft drinks for two fluffy girls , was a man with a large familiar back . 
Oh ! I think I know him , she murmured . 
Who ? There ? Oh , Bresnahan , Percy Bresnahan . 
You've met him ? What sort of a man is he ? He's a good hearted idiot . 
I rather like him , and I believe that as a salesman of motors he's a wonder . 
But he's a nuisance in the aeronautic section . 
Tries so hard to be useful but he doesn't know anything he doesn't know anything . 
Rather pathetic rich man poking around and trying to be useful . 
Do you want to speak to him ? No no I don't think so . 
III She was at a motion picture show . 
It pretended to deal with the life of studios . 
The leading man did a portrait which was a masterpiece . 
He also saw visions in pipe smoke , and was very brave and poor and pure . 
He had ringlets , and his masterpiece was strangely like an enlarged photograph . 
On the screen , in the role of a composer , appeared an actor called Eric Valour . 
She was startled , incredulous , then wretched . 
Looking straight out at her , wearing a beret and a velvet jacket , was Erik Valborg . 
He had a pale part , which he played neither well nor badly . 
She speculated , I could have made so much of him She did not finish her speculation . 
She went home and read Kennicott's letters . 
IV Kennicott first came to see her in November , thirteen months after her arrival in Washington . 
When he announced that he was coming she was not at all sure that she wished to see him . 
She was glad that he had made the decision himself . 
She had leave from the office for two days . 
She watched him marching from the train , solid , assured , carrying his heavy suit case , and she was diffident he was such a bulky person to handle . 
She realized , in the taxicab , that he was wearing a soft gray suit , a soft easy hat , a flippant tie . 
Like the new outfit ? Got 'em in Chicago . 
Gosh , I hope they're the kind you like . 
They spent half an hour at the flat , with Hugh . 
She was flustered , but he gave no sign of kissing her again . 
As he moved about the small rooms she realized that he had had his new tan shoes polished to a brassy luster . 
There was a recent cut on his chin . 
He must have shaved on the train just before coming into Washington . 
She realized that he was slightly more bald . 
The familiar way in which his hair was parted on the left side agitated her . 
She looked down at his hands , and the fact that his nails were as ill treated as ever touched her more than his pleading shoe shine . 
You'd like to motor down to Mount Vernon this afternoon , wouldn't you ? she said . 
It was the one thing he had planned . 
He was delighted that it seemed to be a perfectly well bred and Washingtonian thing to do . 
He did not coax her to like him . 
At Mount Vernon he admired the paneled library and Washington's dental tools . 
She knew that he would want oysters , that he would have heard of Harvey's apropos of Grant and Blaine , and she took him there . 
At dinner his hearty voice , his holiday enjoyment of everything , turned into nervousness in his desire to know a number of interesting matters , such as whether they still were married . 
But be did not ask questions , and be said nothing about her returning . 
He cleared his throat and observed , Oh say , been trying out the old camera . 
Don't you think these are pretty good ? He tossed over to her thirty prints of Gopher Prairie and the country about . 
Without defense , she was thrown into it . 
She handed them back , with praise for his photography , and he talked of lenses and time exposures . 
Dinner was over and they were gossiping of her friends at the flat , but an intruder was with them , sitting back , persistent , inescapable . 
She could not endure it . 
She stammered I had you check your bag at the station because I wasn't quite sure where you'd stay . 
I'm dreadfully sorry we haven't room to put you up at the flat . 
We ought to have seen about a room for you before . 
Don't you think you better call up the Willard or the Washington now ? He peered at her cloudily . 
Without words he asked , without speech she answered , whether she was also going to the Willard or the Washington . 
But she tried to look as though she did not know that they were debating anything of the sort . 
She would have hated him had he been meek about it . 
But he was neither meek nor angry . 
However impatient he may have been with her blandness he said readily Yes , guess I better do that . 
and going up to your flat for a while ? Like to meet your friends must be fine women and I might take a look and see how Hugh sleeps . 
Like to know how he breathes . 
Don't think he has adenoids , but I better make sure , eh ? He patted her shoulder . 
At the flat they found her two housemates and a girl who had been to jail for suffrage . 
His colloquialisms seemed to Carol no more lax than their habitual slang . 
Like an older brother he kissed her good night in the midst of the company . 
He's terribly nice , said her housemates , and waited for confidences . 
They got none , nor did her own heart . 
She could find nothing definite to agonize about . 
She felt that she was no longer analyzing and controlling forces , but swept on by them . 
He came to the flat for breakfast , and washed the dishes . 
That was her only occasion for spite . 
For all his willingness to play there was over him a melancholy which piqued her . 
His normally expressionless eyes had depths to them now , and strangeness . 
When I was in the U. , I had to earn part of my way , and when I wasn't doing that or studying , I guess I was roughhousing . 
My gang were a great bunch for bumming around and raising Cain . 
He pounced on it You did like those pictures of G. P. pretty well , after all , didn't you ! Yes , of course . 
Wouldn't be so bad to have a glimpse of the old town , would it ! No , it wouldn't . 
Just as I was terribly glad to see the Haydocks . 
But please understand me ! That doesn't mean that I withdraw all my criticisms . 
The fact that I might like a glimpse of old friends hasn't any particular relation to the question of whether Gopher Prairie oughtn't to have festivals and lamb chops . 
Hastily , No , no ! Sure not . 
But I know it must have been pretty tiresome to have to live with anybody as perfect as I was . 
She resolutely took him to her favorite white and green cottages and Georgian houses . 
He admitted that fanlights , and white shutters against rosy brick , were more homelike than a painty wooden box . 
He volunteered , I see how you mean . 
They make me think of these pictures of an old fashioned Christmas . 
Oh , if you keep at it long enough you'll have Sam and me reading poetry and everything . 
Oh say , d' I tell you about this fierce green Jack Elder's had his machine painted ? VI They were at dinner . 
I'm pretty practical about foundations and radiation and stuff like that , but I guess I don't know a whole lot about architecture . 
Doubtfully , That's sweet of you . 
Look here , Carrie you think I'm going to ask you to love me . 
And I'm not going to ask you to come back to Gopher Prairie ! She gaped . 
It's been a whale of a fight . 
But I guess I've got myself to see that you won't ever stand G. P. unless you WANT to come back to it . 
I needn't say I'm crazy to have you . 
But I won't ask you . 
I just want you to know how I wait for you . 
Every mail I look for a letter , and when I get one I'm kind of scared to open it , I'm hoping so much that you're coming back . 
Evenings You know I didn't open the cottage down at the lake at all , this past summer . 
Simply couldn't stand all the others laughing and swimming , and you not there . 
And sometimes I fell asleep there , in my chair , and didn't wake up till after midnight , and the house Oh , the devil ! Please get me , Carrie . 
I just want you to know how welcome you'll be if you ever do come . 
But I'm not asking you to . 
You're It's awfully 'Nother thing . 
I'm going to be frank . 
I haven't always been absolutely , uh , absolutely , proper . 
I've always loved you more than anything else in the world , you and the kid . 
But sometimes when you were chilly to me I'd get lonely and sore , and pike out and Never intended She rescued him with a pitying , It's all right . 
But before we were married you said if your husband ever did anything wrong , you'd want him to tell you . 
Did I ? I can't remember . 
And I can't seem to think . 
Oh , my dear , I do know how generously you're trying to make me happy . 
The only thing is I can't think . 
I don't know what I think . 
Then listen ! Don't think ! Here's what I want you to do ! Get a two weeks leave from your office . 
Weather's beginning to get chilly here . 
Let's run down to Charleston and Savannah and maybe Florida . 
A second honeymoon ? indecisively . 
No. Don't even call it that . 
Call it a second wooing . 
I just want the chance to chase around with you . 
I guess I never appreciated how lucky I was to have a girl with imagination and lively feet to play with . 
When they sat on the upper balcony , enchanted by the moon glitter , she cried , Shall I go back to Gopher Prairie with you ? Decide for me . 
I'm tired of deciding and undeciding . 
No. You've got to do your own deciding . 
As a matter of fact , in spite of this honeymoon , I don't think I want you to come home . 
I want you to be satisfied when you get there . 
I'll do everything I can to keep you happy , but I'll make lots of breaks , so I want you to take time and think it over . 
She still had a chance to seize splendid indefinite freedoms . 
She might go oh , she'd see Europe , somehow , before she was recaptured . 
But she also had a firmer respect for Kennicott . 
She had fancied that her life might make a story . 
Thus she brooded , looking at the amazing sea , holding his hand . 
VIII She was in Washington Kennicott was in Gopher Prairie , writing as dryly as ever about water pipes and goose hunting and Mrs. Fageros's mastoid . 
She was talking at dinner to a generalissima of suffrage . 
Should she return ? The leader spoke wearily My dear , I'm perfectly selfish . 
I can't quite visualize the needs of your husband , and it seems to me that your baby will do quite as well in the schools here as in your barracks at home . 
Then you think I'd better not go back ? Carol sounded disappointed . 
It's more difficult than that . 
When I say that I'm selfish I mean that the only thing I consider about women is whether they're likely to prove useful in building up real political power for women . 
And you ? Shall I be frank ? Remember when I say you' I don't mean you alone . 
I have given up father and mother and children for the love of God . 
But we meddlers have upset everything . 
Now the one thing that is disgraceful to any of us is obvious success . 
I certainly wasn't out home . 
Why didn't I do big effective Not a matter of heroism . 
Easy , pleasant , lucrative home work for wives asking people to define their jobs . 
That's the most dangerous doctrine I know ! Carol was mediating , I will go back ! I will go on asking questions . 
I've always done it , and always failed at it , and it's all I can do . 
And you have one thing . 
You have a baby to hug . 
I dream of babies of a baby and I sneak around parks to see them playing . 
And the antis call me unsexed' ! Carol was thinking , in panic , Oughtn't Hugh to have country air ? I won't let him become a yokel . 
I can guide him away from street corner loafing . 
On her way home Now that I've made a precedent , joined the union and gone out on one strike and learned personal solidarity , I won't be so afraid . 
Will won't always be resisting my running away . 
Some day I really will go to Europe with him . 
I've lived with people who are not afraid to go to jail . 
I could invite a Miles Bjornstam to dinner without being afraid of the Haydocks . 
I'll take back the sound of Yvette Guilbert's songs and Elman's violin . 
They'll be only the lovelier against the thrumming of crickets in the stubble on an autumn day . 
I can laugh now and be serene . 
Though she should return , she said , she would not be utterly defeated . 
She was glad of her rebellion . 
IX Her active hatred of Gopher Prairie had run out . 
She saw it now as a toiling new settlement . 
With sympathy she remembered Kennicott's defense of its citizens as a lot of pretty good folks , working hard and trying to bring up their families the best they can . 
She remembered that Kennicott and Sam Clark had listened to her songs , and she wanted to run to them and sing . 
At last , she rejoiced , I've come to a fairer attitude toward the town . 
I can love it , now . 
She was , perhaps , rather proud of herself for having acquired so much tolerance . 
She awoke at three in the morning , after a dream of being tortured by Ella Stowbody and the Widow Bogart . 
I've been making the town a myth . 
This is how people keep up the tradition of the perfect home town , the happy boyhood , the brilliant college friends . 
I've been forgetting that Main Street doesn't think it's in the least lonely and pitiful . 
It thinks it's God's Own Country . 
It isn't waiting for me . 
But the next evening she again saw Gopher Prairie as her home , waiting for her in the sunset , rimmed round with splendor . 
She did not return for five months more five months crammed with greedy accumulation of sounds and colors to take back for the long still days . 
She had spent nearly two years in Washington . 
When she departed for Gopher Prairie , in June , her second baby was stirring within her . 
CHAPTER XXXIX SHE wondered all the way home what her sensations would be . 
She wondered about it so much that she had every sensation she had imagined . 
She was excited by each familiar porch , each hearty Well , well ! and flattered to be , for a day , the most important news of the community . 
She bustled about , making calls . 
Juanita Haydock bubbled over their Washington encounter , and took Carol to her social bosom . 
This ancient opponent seemed likely to be her most intimate friend , for Vida Sherwin , though she was cordial , stood back and watched for imported heresies . 
In the evening Carol went to the mill . 
The mystical Om Om Om of the dynamos in the electric light plant behind the mill was louder in the darkness . 
Outside sat the night watchman , Champ Perry . 
He held up his stringy hands and squeaked , We've all missed you terrible . 
After a week she decided that she was neither glad nor sorry to be back . 
She entered each day with the matter of fact attitude with which she had gone to her office in Washington . 
It was her task there would be mechanical details and meaningless talk what of it ? The only problem which she had approached with emotion proved insignificant . 
He mumbled , ten minutes after she had entered the house , Say , I've kept your room for you like it was . 
I've kind of come round to your way of thinking . 
Don't see why folks need to get on each other's nerves just because they're friendly . 
Darned if I haven't got so I like a little privacy and mulling things over by myself . 
II She had left a city which sat up nights to talk of universal transition of European revolution , guild socialism , free verse . 
She had fancied that all the world was changing . 
She found that it was not . 
Their problems were exactly what they had been two years ago , what they had been twenty years ago , and what they would be for twenty years to come . 
With the world a possible volcano , the husbandmen were plowing at the base of the mountain . 
She was unable to rhapsodize much over the seven new bungalows and the two garages which Kennicott had made to seem so important . 
Her intensest thought about them was , Oh yes , they're all right I suppose . 
The change which she did heed was the erection of the schoolbuilding , with its cheerful brick walls , broad windows , gymnasium , classrooms for agriculture and cooking . 
It indicated Vida's triumph , and it stirred her to activity any activity . 
She went to Vida with a jaunty , I think I shall work for you . 
And I'll begin at the bottom . 
She relieved the attendant at the rest room for an hour a day . 
Her only innovation was painting the pine table a black and orange rather shocking to the Thanatopsis . 
She talked to the farmwives and soothed their babies and was happy . 
Thinking of them she did not think of the ugliness of Main Street as she hurried along it to the chatter of the Jolly Seventeen . 
She wore her eye glasses on the street now . 
She was beginning to ask Kennicott and Juanita if she didn't look young , much younger than thirty three . 
The eye glasses pinched her nose . 
They would make her seem older , and hopelessly settled . 
No ! She would not wear spec tacles yet . 
But she tried on a pair at Kennicott's office . 
They really were much more comfortable . 
Westlake , Sam Clark , Nat Hicks , and Del Snafflin were talking in Del's barber shop . 
Well , I see Kennicott's wife is taking a whirl at the rest room , now , said Dr . 
Just as much to her kicking as there was to Jim Blausser's gassing about factories . 
And you can bet Mrs. Kennicott is smart , even if she is skittish . 
Glad to see her back . 
Westlake hastened to play safe . 
So was I ! So was I ! She's got a nice way about her , and she knows a good deal about books , or fiction anyway . 
Of course she's like all the rest of these women not solidly founded not scholarly doesn't know anything about political economy falls for every new idea that some windjamming crank puts out . 
But she's a nice woman . 
She'll probably fix up the rest room , and the rest room is a fine thing , brings a lot of business to town . 
And now that Mrs. Kennicott's been away , maybe she's got over some of her fool ideas . 
Maybe she realizes that folks simply laugh at her when she tries to tell us how to run everything . 
She'll take a tumble to herself , said Nat Hicks , sucking in his lips judicially . 
As far as I'm concerned , I'll say she's as nice a looking skirt as there is in town . 
But yow ! His tone electrified them . 
I tell you , Carrie Kennicott's a smart woman , and these smart educated women all get funny ideas , but they get over 'em after they've had three or four kids . 
You'll see her settled down one of these days , and teaching Sunday School and helping at sociables and behaving herself , and not trying to butt into business and politics . 
IV For some reason which was totally mysterious to Carol , Maud Dyer seemed to resent her return . 
At the Jolly Seventeen Maud giggled nervously , Well , I suppose you found war work a good excuse to stay away and have a swell time . 
Juanita ! Don't you think we ought to make Carrie tell us about the officers she met in Washington ? They rustled and stared . 
Their curiosity seemed natural and unimportant . 
Oh yes , yes indeed , have to do that some day , she yawned . 
She no longer took Aunt Bessie Smail seriously enough to struggle for independence . 
She saw that Aunt Bessie did not mean to intrude that she wanted to do things for all the Kennicotts . 
She divined that when Aunt Bessie came in with a jar of wild grape jelly she was waiting in hope of being asked for the recipe . 
After that she could be irritated but she could not be depressed by Aunt Bessie's simoom of questioning . 
Only one thing bruised Carol's vanity . 
Few people asked her about Washington . 
They who had most admiringly begged Percy Bresnahan for his opinions were least interested in her facts . 
Her baby , born in August , was a girl . 
VI Hugh was loquacious at breakfast . 
He desired to give his impressions of owls and F Street . 
Don't make so much noise . 
You talk too much , growled Kennicott . 
Don't speak to him that way ! Why don't you listen to him ? He has some very interesting things to tell . 
Time for him to start getting educated . 
I've learned much more discipline , I've had much more education , from him than he has from me . 
What's this ? Some new fangled idea of raising kids you got in Washington ? Perhaps . 
Did you ever realize that children are people ? That's all right . 
I'm not going to have him monopolizing the conversation . 
We have our rights , too . 
But I'm going to bring him up as a human being . 
He has just as many thoughts as we have , and I want him to develop them , not take Gopher Prairie's version of them . 
That's my biggest work now keeping myself , keeping you , from educating' him . 
Well , let's not scrap about it . 
But I'm not going to have him spoiled . 
Kennicott had forgotten it in ten minutes and she forgot it this time . 
VII The Kennicotts and the Sam Clarks had driven north to a duck pass between two lakes , on an autumn day of blue and copper . 
Kennicott had given her a light twenty gauge shotgun . 
She was radiant she almost believed Sam when he insisted that it was she who had shot the mallard at which they had fired together . 
She sat on the bank of the reedy lake and found rest in Mrs. Clark's drawling comments on nothing . 
The brown dusk was still . 
Behind them were dark marshes . 
The plowed acres smelled fresh . 
The lake was garnet and silver . 
The voices of the men , waiting for the last flight , were clear in the cool air . 
Mark left ! sang Kennicott , in a long drawn call . 
Three ducks were swooping down in a swift line . 
The guns banged , and a duck fluttered . 
The men pushed their light boat out on the burnished lake , disappeared beyond the reeds . 
Their cheerful voices and the slow splash and clank of oars came back to Carol from the dimness . 
In the sky a fiery plain sloped down to a serene harbor . 
It was the first time she had called Mrs. Clark by her given name the first time she had willingly sat back , a woman of Main Street . 
It's good to be hungry , she reflected , as they drove away . 
She looked across the silent fields to the west . 
She was conscious of an unbroken sweep of land to the Rockies , to Alaska , a dominion which will rise to unexampled greatness when other empires have grown senile . 
Let's all go to the movies tomorrow night . 
Awfully exciting film , said Ethel Clark . 
Well , I was going to read a new book but All right , let's go , said Carol . 
VIII They're too much for me , Carol sighed to Kennicott . 
I've been thinking about getting up an annual Community Day , when the whole town would forget feuds and go out and have sports and a picnic and a dance . 
But Bert Tybee he's kidnapped my idea . 
He wants the Community Day , but he wants to have some politician give an address . 
That's just the stilted sort of thing I've tried to avoid . 
He asked Vida , and of course she agreed with him . 
Kennicott considered the matter while he wound the clock and they tramped up stairs . 
Yes , it would jar you to have Bert butting in , he said amiably . 
Are you going to do much fussing over this Community stunt ? Don't you ever get tired of fretting and stewing and experimenting ? I haven't even started . 
Look ! She led him to the nursery door , pointed at the fuzzy brown head of her daughter . 
Do you see that object on the pillow ? Do you know what it is ? It's a bomb to blow up smugness . 
If you Tories were wise , you wouldn't arrest anarchists you'd arrest all these children while they're asleep in their cribs . 
Yump , probably be changes all right , yawned Kennicott . 
She sat on the edge of his bed while he hunted through his bureau for a collar which ought to be there and persistently wasn't . 
I'll go on , always . 
But this Community Day makes me see how thoroughly I'm beaten . 
That darn collar certainly is gone for keeps , muttered Kennicott and , louder , Yes , I guess you I didn't quite catch what you said , dear . 
You bet you have , said Kennicott . 
Sort of feels to me like it might snow tomorrow . 
Have to be thinking about putting up the storm windows pretty soon . 
