Still there is so much obscurity in the Indian traditions , and so much confusion in the Indian names , as to render some explanation useful . 
Few men exhibit greater diversity , or , if we may so express it , greater antithesis of character , than the native warrior of North America . 
These are qualities , it is true , which do not distinguish all alike but they are so far the predominating traits of these remarkable people as to be characteristic . 
It is generally believed that the Aborigines of the American continent have an Asiatic origin . 
There are many physical as well as moral facts which corroborate this opinion , and some few that would seem to weigh against it . 
Climate may have had great influence on the former , but it is difficult to see how it can have produced the substantial difference which exists in the latter . 
The imagery of the Indian , both in his poetry and in his oratory , is oriental chastened , and perhaps improved , by the limited range of his practical knowledge . 
He draws his metaphors from the clouds , the seasons , the birds , the beasts , and the vegetable world . 
His language has the richness and sententious fullness of the Chinese . 
Philologists have said that there are but two or three languages , properly speaking , among all the numerous tribes which formerly occupied the country that now composes the United States . 
They ascribe the known difficulty one people have to understand another to corruptions and dialects . 
They mutually exhorted each other to be of use in the event of the chances of war throwing either of the parties into the hands of his enemies . 
Like nations of higher pretensions , the American Indian gives a very different account of his own tribe or race from that which is given by other people . 
The whites have assisted greatly in rendering the traditions of the Aborigines more obscure by their own manner of corrupting names . 
Thus , the term used in the title of this book has undergone the changes of Mahicanni , Mohicans , and Mohegans the latter being the word commonly used by the whites . 
In these pages , Lenni Lenape , Lenope , Delawares , Wapanachki , and Mohicans , all mean the same people , or tribes of the same stock . 
Mingo was a term of peculiar reproach , as were Mengwe and Maqua in a less degree . 
The Mohicans were the possessors of the country first occupied by the Europeans in this portion of the continent . 
There is sufficient historical truth in the picture to justify the use that has been made of it . 
But , beyond this , the enterprise and energy of a people who have done so much in other places have done little here . 
Of all the tribes named in these pages , there exist only a few half civilized beings of the Oneidas , on the reservations of their people in New York . 
The rest have disappeared , either from the regions in which their fathers dwelt , or altogether from the earth . 
There is one point on which we would wish to say a word before closing this preface . 
Hawkeye calls the Lac du Saint Sacrement , the Horican . 
As we believe this to be an appropriation of the name that has its origin with ourselves , the time has arrived , perhaps , when the fact should be frankly admitted . 
Looking over an ancient map , it was ascertained that a tribe of Indians , called Les Horicans by the French , existed in the neighborhood of this beautiful sheet of water . 
We relieve our conscience by the confession , at all events leaving it to exercise its authority as it may see fit . 
A wide and apparently an impervious boundary of forests severed the possessions of the hostile provinces of France and England . 
The facilities which nature had there offered to the march of the combatants were too obvious to be neglected . 
The less zealous English thought they conferred a sufficient honor on its unsullied fountains , when they bestowed the name of their reigning prince , the second of the house of Hanover . 
The two united to rob the untutored possessors of its wooded scenery of their native right to perpetuate its original appellation of Horican . 
Thus a literal translation of the name of this beautiful sheet of water , used by the tribe that dwelt on its banks , would be The Tail of the Lake . 
Lake George , as it is vulgarly , and now , indeed , legally , called , forms a sort of tail to Lake Champlain , when viewed on the map . 
Winding its way among countless islands , and imbedded in mountains , the holy lake extended a dozen leagues still further to the south . 
It became , emphatically , the bloody arena , in which most of the battles for the mastery of the colonies were contested . 
Forts were erected at the different points that commanded the facilities of the route , and were taken and retaken , razed and rebuilt , as victory alighted on the hostile banners . 
No longer dreaded by her enemies , her servants were fast losing the confidence of self respect . 
In this mortifying abasement , the colonists , though innocent of her imbecility , and too humble to be the agents of her blunders , were but the natural participators . 
A wide frontier had been laid naked by this unexpected disaster , and more substantial evils were preceded by a thousand fanciful and imaginary dangers . 
The alarmed colonists believed that the yells of the savages mingled with every fitful gust of wind that issued from the interminable forests of the west . 
The terrific character of their merciless enemies increased immeasurably the natural horrors of warfare . 
The reputation earned by Washington in this battle was the principal cause of his being selected to command the American armies at a later day . 
In this manner does the mother country absorb even the fame , under that system of rule . 
It has already been mentioned that the distance between these two posts was less than five leagues . 
At the latter , however , lay General Webb , who commanded the armies of the king in the northern provinces , with a body of more than five thousand men . 
All doubts as to the intention of Webb now vanished , and an hour or two of hurried footsteps and anxious faces succeeded . 
The simple array of the chosen band was soon completed . 
The person of this individual was to the last degree ungainly , without being in any particular manner deformed . 
He had all the bones and joints of other men , without any of their proportions . 
Erect , his stature surpassed that of his fellows though seated , he appeared reduced within the ordinary limits of the race . 
The same contrariety in his members seemed to exist throughout the whole man . 
His head was large his shoulders narrow his arms long and dangling while his hands were small , if not delicate . 
The ill assorted and injudicious attire of the individual only served to render his awkwardness more conspicuous . 
His eyes fell on the still , upright , and rigid form of the Indian runner , who had borne to the camp the unwelcome tidings of the preceding evening . 
The native bore both the tomahawk and knife of his tribe and yet his appearance was not altogether that of a warrior . 
His eye , alone , which glistened like a fiery star amid lowering clouds , was to be seen in its state of native wildness . 
A general movement among the domestics , and a low sound of gentle voices , announced the approach of those whose presence alone was wanted to enable the cavalcade to move . 
The tresses of this lady were shining and black , like the plumage of the raven . 
Her complexion was not brown , but it rather appeared charged with the color of the rich blood , that seemed ready to burst its bounds . 
And yet there was neither coarseness nor want of shadowing in a countenance that was exquisitely regular , and dignified and surpassingly beautiful . 
Yon Indian is a 'runner' of the army and , after the fashion of his people , he may be accounted a hero , returned the officer . 
I like him not , said the lady , shuddering , partly in assumed , yet more in real terror . 
You know him , Duncan , or you would not trust yourself so freely to his keeping ? Say , rather , Alice , that I would not trust you . 
I do know him , or he would not have my confidence , and least of all at this moment . 
He is said to be a Canadian too and yet he served with our friends the Mohawks , who , as you know , are one of the six allied nations . 
If he has been my father's enemy , I like him still less ! exclaimed the now really anxious girl . 
But he stops the private path by which we are to journey is , doubtless , at hand . 
The conjecture of Major Heyward was true . 
Here , then , lies our way , said the young man , in a low voice . 
Manifest no distrust , or you may invite the danger you appear to apprehend . 
Cora , what think you ? asked the reluctant fair one . 
The route of the detachment is known , while ours , having been determined within the hour , must still be secret . 
Should we distrust the man because his manners are not our manners , and that his skin is dark ? coldly asked Cora . 
In the state of Rhode Island there is a bay called Narragansett , so named after a powerful tribe of Indians , which formerly dwelt on its banks . 
Horses of this race were , and are still , in much request as saddle horses , on account of their hardiness and the ease of their movements . 
As they were also sure of foot , the Narragansetts were greatly sought for by females who were obliged to travel over the roots and holes in the new countries . 
Until now this personage had escaped the observation of the travelers . 
If he possessed the power to arrest any wandering eye when exhibiting the glories of his altitude on foot , his equestrian graces were still more likely to attract attention . 
The industry and movements of the rider were not less remarkable than those of the ridden . 
You appear to possess the privilege of a casting vote , returned Heyward we are three , while you have consulted no one but yourself . 
The first point to be obtained is to know one's own mind . 
Once sure of that , and where women are concerned it is not easy , the next is , to act up to the decision . 
I have endeavored to do both , and here I am . 
If you journey to the lake , you have mistaken your route , said Heyward , haughtily the highway thither is at least half a mile behind you . 
A most arbitrary , if not a hasty decision ! exclaimed Heyward , undecided whether to give vent to his growing anger , or to laugh in the other's face . 
I understand not your allusions about lines and angles and I leave expounding to those who have been called and set apart for that holy office . 
I lay claim to no higher gift than a small insight into the glorious art of petitioning and thanksgiving , as practiced in psalmody . 
The man is , most manifestly , a disciple of Apollo , cried the amused Alice , and I take him under my own especial protection . 
Nay , throw aside that frown , Heyward , and in pity to my longing ears , suffer him to journey in our train . 
I am glad to encounter thee , friend , continued the maiden , waving her hand to the stranger to proceed , as she urged her Narragansett to renew its amble . 
Partial relatives have almost persuaded me that I am not entirely worthless in a duet myself and we may enliven our wayfaring by indulging in our favorite pursuit . 
It might be of signal advantage to one , ignorant as I , to hear the opinions and experience of a master in the art . 
But four parts are altogether necessary to the perfection of melody . 
Is he , then , much practiced in the art of psalmody ? demanded her simple companion . 
Alice felt disposed to laugh , though she succeeded in suppressing her merriment , ere she answered I apprehend that he is rather addicted to profane song . 
The chances of a soldier's life are but little fitted for the encouragement of more sober inclinations . 
Man's voice is given to him , like his other talents , to be used , and not to be abused . 
You have , then , limited your efforts to sacred song ? Even so . 
As the psalms of David exceed all other language , so does the psalmody that has been fitted to them by the divines and sages of the land , surpass all vain poetry . 
I never abid in any place , sleeping or waking , without an example of this gifted work . 
It's like the choice ointment , From the head to the beard did go Down Aaron's head , that downward went His garment's skirts unto . 
Such an innovation on the silence and retirement of the forest could not fail to enlist the ears of those who journeyed at so short a distance in advance . 
Though we are not in danger , common prudence would teach us to journey through this wilderness in as quiet a manner as possible . 
You will then , pardon me , Alice , should I diminish your enjoyments , by requesting this gentleman to postpone his chant until a safer opportunity . 
He paused and turned his head quickly toward a thicket , and then bent his eyes suspiciously on their guide , who continued his steady pace , in undisturbed gravity . 
Major Heyward was mistaken only in suffering his youthful and generous pride to suppress his active watchfulness . 
The vast canopy of woods spread itself to the margin of the river , overhanging the water , and shadowing its dark current with a deeper hue . 
These feeble and broken sounds were , however , too familiar to the foresters to draw their attention from the more interesting matter of their dialogue . 
his body , which was nearly naked , presented a terrific emblem of death , drawn in intermingled colors of white and black . 
The scalp was the only admissible trophy of victory . 
Thus , it was deemed more important to obtain the scalp than to kill the man . 
Some tribes lay great stress on the honor of striking a dead body . 
These practices have nearly disappeared among the Indians of the Atlantic states . 
His person , though muscular , was rather attenuated than full but every nerve and muscle appeared strung and indurated by unremitted exposure and toil . 
He wore a hunting shirt of forest green , fringed with faded yellow , and a summer cap of skins which had been shorn of their fur . 
He also bore a knife in a girdle of wampum , like that which confined the scanty garments of the Indian , but no tomahawk . 
The hunting shirt is a picturesque smock frock , being shorter , and ornamented with fringes and tassels . 
The colors are intended to imitate the hues of the wood , with a view to concealment . 
Many corps of American riflemen have been thus attired , and the dress is one of the most striking of modern times . 
The hunting shirt is frequently white . 
The rifle of the army is short that of the hunter is always long . 
The scout alludes to a tradition which is very popular among the tribes of the Atlantic states . 
Evidence of their Asiatic origin is deduced from the circumstances , though great uncertainty hangs over the whole history of the Indians . 
My fathers fought with the naked red man ! returned the Indian , sternly , in the same language . 
You have the story told by your fathers , returned the other , coldly waving his hand . 
Listen , Hawkeye , and your ear shall drink no lie . 
'Tis what my fathers have said , and what the Mohicans have done . 
He hesitated a single instant , and bending a cautious glance toward his companion , he continued , in a manner that was divided between interrogation and assertion . 
They call this up stream current the tide , which is a thing soon explained , and clear enough . 
But everything depends on what scale you look at things . 
Now , on the small scale , the 'arth is level but on the large scale it is round . 
If unsatisfied by the philosophy of his companion , the Indian was far too dignified to betray his unbelief . 
He listened like one who was convinced , and resumed his narrative in his former solemn manner . 
We came from the place where the sun is hid at night , over great plains where the buffaloes live , until we reached the big river . 
There we fought the Alligewi , till the ground was red with their blood . 
From the banks of the big river to the shores of the salt lake , there was none to meet us . 
The Maquas followed at a distance . 
We said the country should be ours from the place where the water runs up no longer on this stream , to a river twenty sun's journey toward the summer . 
We drove the Maquas into the woods with the bears . 
They only tasted salt at the licks they drew no fish from the great lake we threw them the bones . 
All this I have heard and believe , said the white man , observing that the Indian paused but it was long before the English came into the country . 
A pine grew then where this chestnut now stands . 
The first pale faces who came among us spoke no English . 
They came in a large canoe , when my fathers had buried the tomahawk with the red men around them . 
The salt lake gave us its fish , the wood its deer , and the air its birds . 
We took wives who bore us children we worshipped the Great Spirit and we kept the Maquas beyond the sound of our songs of triumph . 
Know you anything of your own family at that time ? demanded the white . 
My tribe is the grandfather of nations , but I am an unmixed man . 
The blood of chiefs is in my veins , where it must stay forever . 
The Dutch landed , and gave my people the fire water they drank until the heavens and the earth seemed to meet , and they foolishly thought they had found the Great Spirit . 
Then they parted with their land . 
At the next instant , a youthful warrior passed between them , with a noiseless step , and seated himself on the bank of the rapid stream . 
The white man seemed to take counsel from their customs , and , relinquishing his grasp of the rifle , he also remained silent and reserved . 
The thieves are outlying for scalps and plunder , said the white man , whom we shall call Hawkeye , after the manner of his companions . 
Hawkeye , let us eat to night , and show the Maquas that we are men to morrow . 
I must leave the buck to your arrow , Uncas , or we may kill a deer for them thieves , the Iroquois , to eat . 
The instant the father seconded this intimation by an expressive gesture of the hand , Uncas threw himself on the ground , and approached the animal with wary movements . 
Hugh ! ejaculated his companion , turning quickly , like a hound who scented game . 
There is but one deer , and he is dead , said the Indian , bending his body till his ear nearly touched the earth . 
I hear the sounds of feet ! Perhaps the wolves have driven the buck to shelter , and are following on his trail . 
No. The horses of white men are coming ! returned the other , raising himself with dignity , and resuming his seat on the log with his former composure . 
Hawkeye , they are your brothers speak to them . 
Who comes hither , among the beasts and dangers of the wilderness ? Believers in religion , and friends to the law and to the king , returned he who rode foremost . 
Men who have journeyed since the rising sun , in the shades of this forest , without nourishment , and are sadly tired of their wayfaring . 
Before the stranger could make any reply to this unexpected proposition , another horseman dashed the bushes aside , and leaped his charger into the pathway , in front of his companion . 
We will not dispute concerning the excellence of the passage , returned Heyward , smiling for , as the reader has anticipated , it was he . 
In plain words , we know not where we are . 
Since you trusted yourself to the care of one of that nation , I only wonder that you have not fallen in with more . 
Of that there is little danger , since William Henry is so many miles in our front . 
You forget that I have told you our guide is now a Mohawk , and that he serves with our forces as a friend . 
And I tell you that he who is born a Mingo will die a Mingo , returned the other positively . 
You have not yet answered my question what is our distance from the main army at Edward ? It seems that may depend on who is your guide . 
One would think such a horse as that might get over a good deal of ground atwixt sun up and sun down . 
If you serve with the troops , of whom I judge you to be a scout , you should know of such a regiment of the king as the Sixtieth . 
The Sixtieth ! you can tell me little of the Royal Americans that I don't know , though I do wear a hunting shirt instead of a scarlet jacket . 
If there is a man in the country who knows Major Effingham , he stands before you . 
Yes , yes , I have heard that a young gentleman of vast riches , from one of the provinces far south , has got the place . 
The scout regarded Heyward in surprise , and then lifting his cap , he answered , in a tone less confident than before though still expressing doubt . 
And he deceived you , and then deserted ? Neither , as I believe certainly not the latter , for he is to be found in the rear . 
After shoving aside the bushes , and proceeding a few paces , he encountered the females , who awaited the result of the conference with anxiety , and not entirely without apprehension . 
Satisfied with his scrutiny , the hunter soon left him . 
As he repassed the females , he paused a moment to gaze upon their beauty , answering to the smile and nod of Alice with a look of open pleasure . 
They are full of outlying Iroquois , and your mongrel Mohawk knows where to find them too well to be my companion . 
It was because I suspected him that I would follow no longer making him , as you see , follow me . 
I knew he was one of the cheats as soon as I laid eyes on him ! returned the scout , placing a finger on his nose , in sign of caution . 
If I should go back to him , the cunning varmint would suspect something , and be dodging through the trees like a frightened deer . 
He may be innocent , and I dislike the act . 
Hold ! interrupted Heyward , it will not do we must think of some other scheme and yet , I have much reason to believe the rascal has deceived me . 
Now , go you back , said the hunter , speaking again to Heyward , and hold the imp in talk these Mohicans here will take him without breaking his paint . 
Nay , said Heyward , proudly , I will seize him myself . 
Hist ! what could you do , mounted , against an Indian in the bushes ! I will dismount . 
Go , then talk openly to the miscreant , and seem to believe him the truest friend you have on 'arth . 
Heyward prepared to comply , though with strong disgust at the nature of the office he was compelled to execute . 
Each moment , however , pressed upon him a conviction of the critical situation in which he had suffered his invaluable trust to be involved through his own confidence . 
Stimulated by apprehension , he left the scout , who immediately entered into a loud conversation with the stranger that had so unceremoniously enlisted himself in the party of travelers that morning . 
The scene of this tale was in the d degree of latitude , where the twilight is never of long continuation . 
You have missed the way , nor have I been more fortunate . 
Oh ! not alone , surely , Magua , for you know that we are with him . 
Go ! Whom call you Le Renard ? 'Tis the name his Canada fathers have given to Magua , returned the runner , with an air that manifested his pride at the distinction . 
Night is the same as day to Le Subtil , when Munro waits for him . 
Le Subtil knows the path to the great lakes , and he can find the bones of his fathers , was the answer of the unmoved runner . 
Rest your weary limbs , then , and open your wallet to eat . 
We have a few moments to spare let us not waste them in talk like wrangling women . 
When the ladies are refreshed we will proceed . 
What say you , Renard ? Le Subtil says it is good . 
Heyward felt it had now become incumbent on him to act . 
Throwing his leg over the saddle , he dismounted , with a determination to advance and seize his treacherous companion , trusting the result to his own manhood . 
In order , however , to prevent unnecessary alarm , he still preserved an air of calmness and friendship . 
Le Renard Subtil does not eat , he said , using the appellation he had found most flattering to the vanity of the Indian . 
His corn is not well parched , and it seems dry . 
Let me examine perhaps something may be found among my own provisions that will help his appetite . 
Magua held out the wallet to the proffer of the other . 
He even suffered their hands to meet , without betraying the least emotion , or varying his riveted attitude of attention . 
At the next instant the form of Chingachgook appeared from the bushes , looking like a specter in its paint , and glided across the path in swift pursuit . 
Next followed the shout of Uncas , when the woods were lighted by a sudden flash , that was accompanied by the sharp report of the hunter's rifle . 
In such a night Did Thisbe fearfully o'ertrip the dew And saw the lion's shadow ere himself . 
Then recollecting the importance of securing the fugitive , he dashed aside the surrounding bushes , and pressed eagerly forward to lend his aid in the chase . 
Before he had , however , proceeded a hundred yards , he met the three foresters already returning from their unsuccessful pursuit . 
Why so soon disheartened ! he exclaimed the scoundrel must be concealed behind some of these trees , and may yet be secured . 
We are not safe while he goes at large . 
Yonder red devil would draw you within swing of the tomahawks of his comrades , before you were heated in the chase . 
It was evident that they debated on the propriety of some measure , that nearly concerned the welfare of the travelers . 
First , you must promise two things , both in your own name and for your friends , or without serving you we shall only injure ourselves ! Name them . 
I will do my utmost to see both these conditions fulfilled . 
No it would be better to mislead the imps , and make them believe they must equal a horse's speed to run down their chase . 
Ay , ay , that will blind their fireballs of eyes ! Chingach Hist ! what stirs the bush ? The colt . 
When men struggle for the single life God has given them , said the scout , sternly , even their own kind seem no more than the beasts of the wood . 
If you speak again , I shall leave you to the mercy of the Maquas ! Draw to your arrow's head , Uncas we have no time for second blows . 
The low , muttering sounds of his threatening voice were still audible , when the wounded foal , first rearing on its hinder legs , plunged forward to its knees . 
The Indians , however , hesitated not a moment , but taking the bridles , they led the frightened and reluctant horses into the bed of the river . 
Hesitating to advance , he pointed out the place to the attention of his companion . 
The river was confined between high and cragged rocks , one of which impended above the spot where the canoe rested . 
All beneath the fantastic limbs and ragged tree tops , which were , here and there , dimly painted against the starry zenith , lay alike in shadowed obscurity . 
The horses had been secured to some scattering shrubs that grew in the fissures of the rocks , where , standing in the water , they were left to pass the night . 
For many minutes the struggle between the light bubble in which they floated and the swift current was severe and doubtful . 
Twenty times they thought the whirling eddies were sweeping them to destruction , when the masterhand of their pilot would bring the bows of the canoe to stem the rapid . 
A long , a vigorous , and , as it appeared to the females , a desperate effort , closed the struggle . 
Where are we , and what is next to be done ! demanded Heyward , perceiving that the exertions of the scout had ceased . 
There , go you all on the rock , and I will bring up the Mohicans with the venison . 
A man had better sleep without his scalp , than famish in the midst of plenty . 
His passengers gladly complied with these directions . 
We are now fortified , garrisoned , and provisioned , cried Heyward cheerfully , and may set Montcalm and his allies at defiance . 
You have driven their tribes from the seashore , and would now believe what their enemies say , that you may sleep at night upon an easy pillow . 
No , no to me , every Indian who speaks a foreign tongue is an Iroquois , whether the castle of his tribe be in Canada , or be in York . 
The principal villages of the Indians are still called castles by the whites of New York . 
Oneida castle is no more than a scattered hamlet but the name is in general use . 
I trust to other signs than such as come in at the eye , when I am outlying on the trail of the Mingoes . 
Besides , though the Delaware tongue is the same as a book to the Iroquois , the cunning varlets are quick enough at understanding the reason of a wolf's howl . 
CHAPTER Those strains that once did sweet in Zion glide He wales a portion with judicious care And 'Let us worship God' , he says , with solemn air . 
The stranger alone disregarded the passing incidents . 
He seated himself on a projection of the rocks , whence he gave no other signs of consciousness than by the struggles of his spirit , as manifested in frequent and heavy sighs . 
At a little distance in advance stood Uncas , his whole person thrown powerfully into view . 
The travelers anxiously regarded the upright , flexible figure of the young Mohican , graceful and unrestrained in the attitudes and movements of nature . 
I could sleep in peace , whispered Alice , in reply , with such a fearless and generous looking youth for my sentinel . 
Let us then hope that this Mohican may not disappoint our wishes , but prove what his looks assert him to be , a brave and constant friend . 
This fire begins to show too bright a flame , he continued , as they complied , and might light the Mingoes to our undoing . 
Uncas , drop the blanket , and show the knaves its dark side . 
Here , you see , we have plenty of salt , and can make a quick broil . 
Come , friend , don't be mournful for the colt 'twas an innocent thing , and had not seen much hardship . 
These provincial terms are frequently put in the mouths of the speakers , according to their several conditions in life . 
Most of them are of local use , and others quite peculiar to the particular class of men to which the character belongs . 
In the present instance , the scout uses the word with immediate reference to the salt , with which his own party was so fortunate as to be provided . 
Uncas did as the other had directed , and when the voice of Hawkeye ceased , the roar of the cataract sounded like the rumbling of distant thunder . 
Are we quite safe in this cavern ? demanded Heyward . 
Is there no danger of surprise ? A single armed man , at its entrance , would hold us at his mercy . 
A spectral looking figure stalked from out of the darkness behind the scout , and seizing a blazing brand , held it toward the further extremity of their place of retreat . 
In what part of them are we ? asked Heyward . 
Why , we are nigh the spot that Providence first placed them at , but where , it seems , they were too rebellious to stay . 
We are then on an island ! Ay ! there are the falls on two sides of us , and the river above and below . 
If you had daylight , it would be worth the trouble to step up on the height of this rock , and look at the perversity of the water . 
The whole design of the river seems disconcerted . 
Glenn's Falls are on the Hudson , some forty or fifty miles above the head of tide , or that place where the river becomes navigable for sloops . 
In explanation of the taste of Hawkeye , it should be remembered that men always prize that most which is least enjoyed . 
As the rights of hospitality were , however , considered sacred among them , this little departure from the dignity of manhood excited no audible comment . 
Had there been one there sufficiently disengaged to become a close observer , he might have fancied that the services of the young chief were not entirely impartial . 
Once or twice he was compelled to speak , to command her attention of those he served . 
In the course of these civilities , a few sentences were exchanged , that served to establish the appearance of an amicable intercourse between the parties . 
In the meanwhile , the gravity of Chingcachgook remained immovable . 
They found a strong resemblance between father and son , with the difference that might be expected from age and hardships . 
On the other hand , the quick , roving eye of the scout seldom rested . 
He ate and drank with an appetite that no sense of danger could disturb , but his vigilance seemed never to desert him . 
As these frequent pauses were never followed by any remark , the momentary uneasiness they created quickly passed away , and for a time was forgotten . 
I drink to our better friendship , hoping that a little horse flesh may leave no heart burnings atween us . 
A very good name , and , I dare say , handed down from honest forefathers . 
I'm an admirator of names , though the Christian fashions fall far below savage customs in this particular . 
The biggest coward I ever knew as called Lyon and his wife , Patience , would scold you out of hearing in less time than a hunted deer would run a rod . 
What may be your calling ? I am an unworthy instructor in the art of psalmody . 
Anan ! I teach singing to the youths of the Connecticut levy . 
You might be better employed . 
The young hounds go laughing and singing too much already through the woods , when they ought not to breathe louder than a fox in his cover . 
You have a pair of legs that might make a long path seem short ! you journey sometimes , I fancy , with tidings for the general . 
Well , friend , I suppose it is your gift , and mustn't be denied any more than if 'twas shooting , or some other better inclination . 
With joyful pleasure do I consent' , said David , adjusting his iron rimmed spectacles , and producing his beloved little volume , which he immediately tendered to Alice . 
The air was solemn and slow . 
The Indians riveted their eyes on the rocks , and listened with an attention that seemed to turn them into stone . 
It was followed by a stillness apparently as deep as if the waters had been checked in their furious progress , at such a horrid and unusual interruption . 
What is it ? murmured Alice , after a few moments of terrible suspense . 
What is it ? repeated Hewyard aloud . 
Neither Hawkeye nor the Indians made any reply . 
They listened , as if expecting the sound would be repeated , with a manner that expressed their own astonishment . 
At length they spoke together , earnestly , in the Delaware language , when Uncas , passing by the inner and most concealed aperture , cautiously left the cavern . 
When he had gone , the scout first spoke in English . 
What it is , or what it is not , none here can tell , though two of us have ranged the woods for more than thirty years . 
I did believe there was no cry that Indian or beast could make , that my ears had not heard but this has proved that I was only a vain and conceited mortal . 
There is nothing to be seen without , continued Hawkeye , shaking his head in discontent and our hiding place is still in darkness . 
Cora set the example of compliance , with a steadiness that taught the more timid Alice the necessity of obedience . 
Before leaving the place , however , she whispered a request to Duncan , that he would follow . 
Heyward took with him a blazing knot , which threw a dim light through the narrow vista of their new apartment . 
Placing it in a favorable position , he joined the females , who now found themselves alone with him for the first time since they had left the friendly ramparts of Fort Edward . 
Leave us not , Duncan , said Alice we cannot sleep in such a place as this , with that horrid cry still ringing in our ears . 
First let us examine into the security of your fortress , he answered , and then we will speak of rest . 
I am certain Cora will join me in saying that sleep is necessary to you both . 
He is a father , and cannot deny his nature . 
How kind has he ever been to all my follies , how tender and indulgent to all my wishes ! sobbed Alice . 
We have been selfish , sister , in urging our visit at such hazard . 
'It is the spirit of my noble minded Cora that leads them , Duncan' , he said , 'and I will not balk it . 
A long , breathless silence succeeded , during which each looked at the others in fearful expectation of hearing the sound repeated . 
CHAPTER They do not sleep , On yonder cliffs , a grizzly band , I see them sit . 
Gray 'Twould be neglecting a warning that is given for our good to lie hid any longer , said Hawkeye when such sounds are raised in the forest . 
These gentle ones may keep close , but the Mohicans and I will watch upon the rock , where I suppose a major of the Sixtieth would wish to keep us company . 
Is , then , our danger so pressing ? asked Cora . 
He who makes strange sounds , and gives them out for man's information , alone knows our danger . 
But neither the Mohicans , nor I , who am a white man without a cross , can explain the cry just heard . 
We , therefore , believe it a sign given for our good . 
Lead the way , my friend I follow . 
The moon had risen , and its light was already glancing here and there on the waters above them but the extremity of the rock where they stood still lay in shadow . 
In vain were the eyes of each individual bent along the opposite shores , in quest of some signs of life , that might explain the nature of the interruption they had heard . 
Their anxious and eager looks were baffled by the deceptive light , or rested only on naked rocks , and straight and immovable trees . 
'Tis the horrid shriek that a horse will give in his agony oftener drawn from him in pain , though sometimes in terror . 
My charger is either a prey to the beasts of the forest , or he sees his danger , without the power to avoid it . 
The sound might deceive me in the cavern , but in the open air I know it too well to be wrong . 
I cannot deny your words , he said , for I am little skilled in horses , though born where they abound . 
The wolves must be hovering above their heads on the bank , and the timorsome creatures are calling on man for help , in the best manner they are able . 
Uncas , with instinctive quickness , receded , and the three foresters held another of their low , earnest conferences . 
The manner of the scout was seriously impressive , though no longer distinguished by any signs of unmanly apprehension . 
This feeling seemed also common to the natives , who placed themselves in positions which commanded a full view of both shores , while their own persons were effectually concealed from observation . 
In such circumstances , common prudence dictated that Heyward and his companions should imitate a caution that proceeded from so intelligent a source . 
In this manner hours passed without further interruption . 
The moon reached the zenith , and shed its mild light perpendicularly on the lovely sight of the sisters slumbering peacefully in each other's arms . 
Duncan cast the wide shawl of Cora before a spectacle he so much loved to contemplate , and then suffered his own head to seek a pillow on the rock . 
But the watchfulness of these vigilant protectors neither tired nor slumbered . 
Not a sound escaped them the most subtle examination could not have told they breathed . 
It was evident that this excess of caution proceeded from an experience that no subtlety on the part of their enemies could deceive . 
Then , for the first time , Hawkeye was seen to stir . 
He crawled along the rock and shook Duncan from his heavy slumbers . 
Now is the time to journey , he whispered awake the gentle ones , and be ready to get into the canoe when I bring it to the landing place . 
Have you had a quiet night ? said Heyward for myself , I believe sleep has got the better of my vigilance . 
All is yet still as midnight . 
Be silent , but be quick . 
By this time Duncan was thoroughly awake , and he immediately lifted the shawl from the sleeping females . 
It seemed , for near a minute , as if the demons of hell had possessed themselves of the air about them , and were venting their savage humors in barbarous sounds . 
The Mohicans boldly sent back the intimidating yell of their enemies , who raised a shout of savage triumph at the fall of Gamut . 
The flash of rifles was then quick and close between them , but either party was too well skilled to leave even a limb exposed to the hostile aim . 
Duncan listened with intense anxiety for the strokes of the paddle , believing that flight was now their only refuge . 
The river glanced by with its ordinary velocity , but the canoe was nowhere to be seen on its dark waters . 
At this slight repulse the assailants instantly withdrew , and gradually the place became as still as before the sudden tumult . 
Duncan seized the favorable moment to spring to the body of Gamut , which he bore within the shelter of the narrow chasm that protected the sisters . 
In another minute the whole party was collected in this spot of comparative safety . 
I only wonder he has escaped with life . 
Is he not dead ? demanded Cora , in a voice whose husky tones showed how powerfully natural horror struggled with her assumed firmness . 
Carry him in , Uncas , and lay him on the sassafras . 
You believe , then , the attack will be renewed ? asked Heyward . 
Duncan ! said the tremulous voice of Cora , when he had reached the mouth of the cavern . 
Come , friends let us to our covers , for no man can tell when or where a Maqua will strike his blow . 
Mingo was the Delaware term of the Five Nations . 
Maquas was the name given them by the Dutch . 
The French , from their first intercourse with them , called them Iroquois . 
The Indians silently repaired to their appointed stations , which were fissures in the rocks , whence they could command the approaches to the foot of the falls . 
Here they secured themselves , as well as circumstances would permit , among the shrubs and fragments of stone that were scattered about the place . 
Above them was a bare , rounded rock , on each side of which the water played its gambols , and plunged into the abysses beneath , in the manner already described . 
When he ventured to utter this impression to his companions , it was met by Hawkeye with an incredulous shake of the head . 
You know not the nature of a Maqua , if you think he is so easily beaten back without a scalp ! he answered . 
If there was one of the imps yelling this morning , there were forty ! and they know our number and quality too well to give up the chase so soon . 
Hist ! look into the water above , just where it breaks over the rocks . 
The river had worn away the edge of the soft rock in such a manner as to render its first pitch less abrupt and perpendicular than is usual at waterfalls . 
At the next moment , a fifth form was seen floating over the green edge of the fall , a little from the line of the island . 
A single , wild , despairing shriek rose from the cavern , and all was hushed again as the grave . 
The first generous impulse of Duncan was to rush to the rescue of the hapless wretch but he felt himself bound to the spot by the iron grasp of the immovable scout . 
He placed a finger in his mouth , and drew a long , shrill whistle , which was answered from the rocks that were guarded by the Mohicans . 
Duncan caught glimpses of heads above the scattered drift wood , as this signal rose on the air , but they disappeared again as suddenly as they had glanced upon his sight . 
A low , rustling sound next drew his attention behind him , and turning his head , he beheld Uncas within a few feet , creeping to his side . 
Hawkeye spoke to him in Delaware , when the young chief took his position with singular caution and undisturbed coolness . 
The gunsmiths can have but little insight into their trade when they make their fowling pieces and short horsemen's He was interrupted by the low but expressive hugh of Uncas . 
I see them , boy , I see them ! continued Hawkeye they are gathering for the rush , or they would keep their dingy backs below the logs . 
The foremost Indian bounded like a stricken deer , and fell headlong among the clefts of the island . 
I know'd it ! and I said it ! muttered the scout , whirling the despised little implement over the falls with bitter disdain . 
At the same moment , Duncan found himself engaged with the other , in a similar contest of hand to hand . 
With ready skill , Hawkeye and his antagonist each grasped that uplifted arm of the other which held the dangerous knife . 
For near a minute they stood looking one another in the eye , and gradually exerting the power of their muscles for the mastery . 
At length , the toughened sinews of the white man prevailed over the less practiced limbs of the native . 
In the meantime , Heyward had been pressed in a more deadly struggle . 
His slight sword was snapped in the first encounter . 
As he was destitute of any other means of defense , his safety now depended entirely on bodily strength and resolution . 
Though deficient in neither of these qualities , he had met an enemy every way his equal . 
Every successive struggle brought them nearer to the verge , where Duncan perceived the final and conquering effort must be made . 
Each of the combatants threw all his energies into that effort , and the result was , that both tottered on the brink of the precipice . 
CHAPTER They linger yet , Avengers of their native land . 
Gray The warning call of the scout was not uttered without occasion . 
During the occurrence of the deadly encounter just related , the roar of the falls was unbroken by any human sound whatever . 
But the moment the struggle was decided , a yell arose as fierce and savage as wild and revengeful passions could throw into the air . 
A steady , though deliberate return was made from the rifle of Chingachgook , who had maintained his post throughout the fray with unmoved resolution . 
I told you to take that loping miscreant under the line of white point now , if your bullet went a hair's breadth it went two inches above it . 
The life lies low in a Mingo , and humanity teaches us to make a quick end to the sarpents . 
Uncas partly raised his body , and offered his hand to the grasp of Heyward . 
During this act of friendship , the two young men exchanged looks of intelligence which caused Duncan to forget the character and condition of his wild associate . 
But the rifle of Uncas was deliberately raised toward the heavens , directing the eyes of his companions to a point , where the mystery was immediately explained . 
Uncas delayed his fire until the scout uttered the word . 
This must be looked to , said the scout , glancing about him with an anxious eye . 
Uncas , call up your father we have need of all our we'pons to bring the cunning varmint from his roost . 
The signal was instantly given and , before Hawkeye had reloaded his rifle , they were joined by Chingachgook . 
Hawkeye and the Mohicans conversed earnestly together in Delaware for a few moments , when each quietly took his post , in order to execute the plan they had speedily devised . 
The warrior in the oak had maintained a quick , though ineffectual fire , from the moment of his discovery . 
But his aim was interrupted by the vigilance of his enemies , whose rifles instantaneously bore on any part of his person that was left exposed . 
Still his bullets fell in the center of the crouching party . 
The clothes of Heyward , which rendered him peculiarly conspicuous , were repeatedly cut , and once blood was drawn from a slight wound in his arm . 
At length , emboldened by the long and patient watchfulness of his enemies , the Huron attempted a better and more fatal aim . 
The quick eyes of the Mohicans caught the dark line of his lower limbs incautiously exposed through the thin foliage , a few inches from the trunk of the tree . 
Their rifles made a common report , when , sinking on his wounded limb , part of the body of the savage came into view . 
Swift as thought , Hawkeye seized the advantage , and discharged his fatal weapon into the top of the oak . 
Against this stern and unyielding morality , supported as it was by such visible policy , there was no appeal . 
Three several times the scout raised his piece in mercy , and as often , prudence getting the better of his intention , it was again silently lowered . 
At length one hand of the Huron lost its hold , and dropped exhausted to his side . 
A desperate and fruitless struggle to recover the branch succeeded , and then the savage was seen for a fleeting instant , grasping wildly at the empty air . 
No shout of triumph succeeded this important advantage , but even the Mohicans gazed at each other in silent horror . 
A single yell burst from the woods , and all was again still . 
Hawkeye , who alone appeared to reason on the occasion , shook his head at his own momentary weakness , even uttering his self disapprobation aloud . 
The young Mohican complied , leaving the scout turning over the useless contents of his pouch , and shaking the empty horn with renewed discontent . 
The instant this unwelcome sight caught the eye of the scout , his rifle was leveled as by instinct , but the barrel gave no answer to the bright sparks of the flint . 
His cry was answered by a yell and a laugh from the woods , as tauntingly exulting as if fifty demons were uttering their blasphemies at the fall of some Christian soul . 
Surely , surely , our case is not so desperate ! exclaimed the youth the Hurons are not here we may make good the caverns , we may oppose their landing . 
With what ? coolly demanded the scout . 
Duncan turned quickly in the direction indicated by the other's eyes , and read a confirmation of his worst apprehensions in the conduct of the Indians . 
Our case is not , cannot be so hopeless ! said Duncan even at this very moment succor may be at hand . 
The elder Mohican heard with deep gravity , and appeared to ponder on his words , as though he felt the importance of their import . 
After a moment of hesitation , he waved his hand in assent , and uttered the English word Good ! with the peculiar emphasis of his people . 
Then , replacing his knife and tomahawk in his girdle , the warrior moved silently to the edge of the rock which was most concealed from the banks of the river . 
The scout delayed his departure to speak to the generous girl , whose breathing became lighter as she saw the success of her remonstrance . 
Wisdom is sometimes given to the young , as well as to the old , he said and what you have spoken is wise , not to call it by a better word . 
All eyes now were turned on Uncas , who stood leaning against the ragged rock , in immovable composure . 
After waiting a short time , Cora pointed down the river , and said Your friends have not been seen , and are now , most probably , in safety . 
Is it not time for you to follow ? Uncas will stay , the young Mohican calmly answered in English . 
Tell him to trust you with the means to buy the freedom of his daughters . 
With a noiseless step he crossed the rock , and dropped into the troubled stream . 
These sudden and apparently successful experiments had all taken place in a few minutes of that time which had now become so precious . 
Is such the faith that Cora Munro would exact from her protector ? said the young man , smiling mournfully , but with bitterness . 
This is not a time for idle subtleties and false opinions , she answered but a moment when every duty should be equally considered . 
To us you can be of no further service here , but your precious life may be saved for other and nearer friends . 
He made no reply , though his eye fell wistfully on the beautiful form of Alice , who was clinging to his arm with the dependency of an infant . 
Cora ceased her entreaties and veiling her face in her shawl , drew the nearly insensible Alice after her into the deepest recess of the inner cavern . 
CHAPTER Be gay securely Dispel , my fair , with smiles , the tim'rous clouds , That hang on thy clear brow . 
While all the images and events he had witnessed remained deeply impressed on his memory , he felt a difficulty in persuading him of their truth . 
His attention was , however , bestowed in vain for with the disappearance of Uncas , every sign of the adventurers had been lost , leaving him in total uncertainty of their fate . 
Every effort , however , to detect the least evidence of the approach of their hidden enemies was as fruitless as the inquiry after his late companions . 
The wooded banks of the river seemed again deserted by everything possessing animal life . 
Duncan caught from these natural accompaniments of the solitary scene a glimmering of hope and he began to rally his faculties to renewed exertions , with something like a reviving confidence of success . 
There is melody in the fall of the cataract , and the rushing of many waters is sweet to the senses ! said David , pressing his hand confusedly on his brow . 
David smiled sadly , though not without a momentary gleam of pleasure , at this allusion to his beloved vocation . 
Duncan seized a pile of the sassafras , which he drew before the passage , studiously concealing every appearance of an aperture . 
Now does our gentle Alice speak like a daughter of Munro ! said Heyward , pausing to press her hand as he passed toward the outer entrance of the cavern . 
With two such examples of courage before him , a man would be ashamed to prove other than a hero . 
With the last sound of his voice , a deep , a long , and almost breathless silence succeeded . 
The fresh air of the morning had penetrated the recess , and its influence was gradually felt on the spirits of its inmates . 
David alone formed an exception to these varying emotions . 
He was , most probably , acting all this time under a confused recollection of the promised consolation of Duncan . 
May not this prove dangerous ? asked Cora , glancing her dark eye at Major Heyward . 
Poor fellow ! his voice is too feeble to be heard above the din of the falls , was the answer beside , the cavern will prove his friend . 
Let him indulge his passions since it may be done without hazard . 
The melody , which no weakness could destroy , gradually wrought its sweet influence on the senses of those who heard it . 
Alice unconsciously dried her tears , and bent her melting eyes on the pallid features of Gamut , with an expression of chastened delight that she neither affected or wished to conceal . 
The open sympathy of the listeners stirred the spirit of the votary of music , whose voice regained its richness and volume , without losing that touching softness which proved its secret charm . 
We are lost ! exclaimed Alice , throwing herself into the arms of Cora . 
We are not yet discovered , and there is still hope . 
The sounds quickly spread around them in every direction . 
Some called to their fellows from the water's edge , and were answered from the heights above . 
Cries were heard in the startling vicinity of the chasm between the two caves , which mingled with hoarser yells that arose out of the abyss of the deep ravine . 
In the midst of this tumult , a triumphant yell was raised within a few yards of the hidden entrance to the cave . 
Heyward abandoned every hope , with the belief it was the signal that they were discovered . 
Again the impression passed away , as he heard the voices collect near the spot where the white man had so reluctantly abandoned his rifle . 
Amid the jargon of Indian dialects that he now plainly heard , it was easy to distinguish not only words , but sentences , in the patois of the Canadas . 
There were now a few minutes of fearful stillness , during which Heyward well knew that the savages conducted their search with greater vigilance and method . 
More than once he could distinguish their footsteps , as they brushed the sassafras , causing the faded leaves to rustle , and the branches to snap . 
At length , the pile yielded a little , a corner of a blanket fell , and a faint ray of light gleamed into the inner part of the cave . 
Cora folded Alice to her bosom in agony , and Duncan sprang to his feet . 
A shout was at that moment heard , as if issuing from the center of the rock , announcing that the neighboring cavern had at length been entered . 
In a minute , the number and loudness of the voices indicated that the whole party was collected in and around that secret place . 
Within reach of his arm was the brawny shoulder of a gigantic Indian , whose deep and authoritative voice appeared to give directions to the proceedings of his fellows . 
Beyond him again , Duncan could look into the vault opposite , which was filled with savages , upturning and rifling the humble furniture of the scout . 
The wound of David had dyed the leaves of sassafras with a color that the native well knew as anticipating the season . 
Over this sign of their success , they sent up a howl , like an opening from so many hounds who had recovered a lost trail . 
Here another wailing cry betrayed that they were again collected around the bodies of their dead comrades . 
But when her lips moved , the words they should have uttered appeared frozen by some new and sudden chill . 
In that moment of surprise , the self possession of Heyward did not desert him . 
The look of exultation and brutal triumph which announced this terrible truth was irresistibly irritating . 
Forgetful of everything but the impulses of his hot blood , Duncan leveled his pistol and fired . 
Rushing to the outlet , Heyward caught a glimpse of his dark figure stealing around a low and narrow ledge , which soon hid him entirely from sight . 
Among the savages a frightful stillness succeeded the explosion , which had just been heard bursting from the bowels of the rock . 
But when Le Renard raised his voice in a long and intelligible whoop , it was answered by a spontaneous yell from the mouth of every Indian within hearing of the sound . 
Contrary to the usages of the natives in the wantonness of their success they had respected , not only the persons of the trembling sisters , but his own . 
Duncan affected not to comprehend the meaning of their repeated and violent interrogatories , while his companion was spared the effort of a similar deception by his ignorance of French . 
The conduct of this savage had formed a solitary exception to that of all his fellows . 
When the eyes of Heyward first met those of his recent guide , he turned them away in horror at the sinister though calm look he encountered . 
Conquering his disgust , however , he was able , with an averted face , to address his successful enemy . 
Le Renard Subtil is too much of a warrior , said the reluctant Heyward , to refuse telling an unarmed man what his conquerors say . 
Le Renard is too brave to remember the hurts received in war , or the hands that gave them . 
But the cry of La Longue Carabine was renewed the instant the impatient savages perceived that the short dialogue was ended . 
Where is his body ? Let the Hurons see his scalp . 
He is not dead , but escaped . 
Magua shook his head incredulously . 
He floated down the stream when the powder was all burned , and when the eyes of the Hurons were behind a cloud . 
And why did the white chief stay ? demanded the still incredulous Indian . 
The white man thinks none but cowards desert their women . 
'Le Cerf Agile' is not here ? I know not whom you call 'The Nimble Deer' , said Duncan gladly profiting by any excuse to create delay . 
Uncas , returned Magua , pronouncing the Delaware name with even greater difficulty than he spoke his English words . 
'Bounding Elk' is what the white man says , when he calls to the young Mohican . 
Here is some confusion in names between us , Le Renard , said Duncan , hoping to provoke a discussion . 
Daim is the French for deer , and cerf for stag elan is the true term , when one would speak of an elk . 
Then , changing his language , he continued , adhering to the imperfect nomenclature of his provincial instructors . 
With his companions , however , the feeling was manifestly different . 
The Hurons had awaited the result of this short dialogue with characteristic patience , and with a silence that increased until there was a general stillness in the band . 
When Heyward ceased to speak , they turned their eyes , as one man , on Magua , demanding , in this expressive manner , an explanation of what had been said . 
Their interpreter pointed to the river , and made them acquainted with the result , as much by the action as by the few words he uttered . 
When the fact was generally understood , the savages raised a frightful yell , which declared the extent of their disappointment . 
But his hands were bound and at the first movement he made , he felt the grasp of the powerful Indian who directed the band , pressing his shoulder like a vise . 
But while Duncan resorted to these words of consolation to quiet the apprehensions of the sisters , he was not so weak as to deceive himself . 
He well knew that the authority of an Indian chief was so little conventional , that it was oftener maintained by physical superiority than by any moral supremacy he might possess . 
The danger was , therefore , magnified exactly in proportion to the number of the savage spirits by which they were surrounded . 
His apprehensions were , however , greatly relieved , when he saw that the leader had summoned his warriors to himself in counsel . 
Their deliberations were short , and it would seem , by the silence of most of the party , the decision unanimous . 
By the frequency with which the few speakers pointed in the direction of the encampment of Webb , it was apparent they dreaded the approach of danger from that quarter . 
This consideration probably hastened their determination , and quickened the subsequent movements . 
It has already been stated that the upper half of the island was a naked rock , and destitute of any other defenses than a few scattered logs of driftwood . 
They had selected this point to make their descent , having borne the canoe through the wood around the cataract for that purpose . 
As soon as this change was made , the leader made signs to the prisoners to descend and enter . 
Duncan witnessed all their movements with renewed uneasiness . 
He had been fond of believing , from the uncommon forbearance of the savages , that he was reserved as a prisoner to be delivered to Montcalm . 
All those busy and ingenious speculations were now annihilated by the conduct of his captors . 
Anxious to know the worst , and willing , in such an emergency , to try the potency of gold he overcame his reluctance to speak to Magua . 
The Indian turned his eyes on the young soldier scornfully , as he answered Speak trees have no ears . 
But the red Hurons are not deaf and counsel that is fit for the great men of a nation would make the young warriors drunk . 
If Magua will not listen , the officer of the king knows how to be silent . 
Now , speak , he said if the words are such as Magua should hear . 
First , the chief of William Henry will give as a great chief should for such a service . 
Those given by the English generally bear the impression of the reigning king , and those given by the Americans that of the president . 
Le Renard had listened gravely as Heyward slowly proceeded in this subtle speech . 
When the young man mentioned the artifice he supposed the Indian to have practised on his own nation , the countenance of the listener was veiled in an expression of cautious gravity . 
Another long and deliberate pause succeeded these sententious questions and ready replies . 
Duncan saw that the Indian hesitated . 
Go , and keep the mouth shut . 
When Magua speaks , it will be the time to answer . 
Magua approached the horses , and affected to be well pleased with the diligence and ingenuity of his comrades . 
He then signed to Heyward to assist the sisters into the saddles , for he seldom deigned to use the English tongue , unless urged by some motive of more than usual moment . 
There was no longer any plausible pretext for delay and Duncan was obliged , however reluctantly , to comply . 
The mare of David had been taken with the followers of the large chief in consequence , its owner , as well as Duncan , was compelled to journey on foot . 
When all were prepared , Magua made the signal to proceed , advancing in front to lead the party in person . 
Next followed David , who was gradually coming to a true sense of his condition , as the effects of the wound became less and less apparent . 
Their direction lay toward the south , and in a course nearly opposite to the road to William Henry . 
Mile after mile was , however , passed through the boundless woods , in this painful manner , without any prospect of a termination to their journey . 
Cora alone remembered the parting injunctions of the scout , and whenever an opportunity offered , she stretched forth her arm to bend aside the twigs that met her hands . 
But the vigilance of the Indians rendered this act of precaution both difficult and dangerous . 
Heyward would have ventured a remonstrance had there been anything encouraging in the gloomy reserve of Magua . 
But the savage , during all this time , seldom turned to look at his followers , and never spoke . 
He never seemed to hesitate . 
Whether the path was hardly distinguishable , whether it disappeared , or whether it lay beaten and plain before him , made no sensible difference in his speed or certainty . 
It seemed as if fatigue could not affect him . 
But all this diligence and speed were not without an object . 
CHAPTER Cursed be my tribe If I forgive him . 
The one in question was high and precipitous its top flattened , as usual but with one of its sides more than ordinarily irregular . 
It possessed no other apparent advantage for a resting place , than in its elevation and form , which might render defense easy , and surprise nearly impossible . 
Without any aid from the science of cookery , he was immediately employed , in common with his fellows , in gorging himself with this digestible sustenance . 
Magua alone sat apart , without participating in the revolting meal , and apparently buried in the deepest thought . 
This abstinence , so remarkable in an Indian , when he possessed the means of satisfying hunger , at length attracted the notice of Heyward . 
The young man willingly believed that the Huron deliberated on the most eligible manner of eluding the vigilance of his associates . 
I have known many fond and tender parents , but never have I seen a man whose heart was softer toward his child . 
Remember , Cora , that on your presence of mind and ingenuity , even your life , as well as that of Alice , may in some measure depend . 
Heyward , and yours ! Mine is of little moment it is already sold to my king , and is a prize to be seized by any enemy who may possess the power . 
I have no father to expect me , and but few friends to lament a fate which I have courted with the insatiable longings of youth after distinction . 
But hush ! we approach the Indian . 
Magua , the lady with whom you wish to speak , is here . 
The Indian rose slowly from his seat , and stood for near a minute silent and motionless . 
He then signed with his hand for Heyward to retire , saying , coldly When the Huron talks to the women , his tribe shut their ears . 
Duncan , still lingering , as if refusing to comply , Coras said , with a calm smile You hear , Heyward , and delicacy at least should urge you to retire . 
Go to Alice , and comfort her with our reviving prospects . 
The Hurons drove him from the graves of his fathers , as they would chase the hunted buffalo . 
And am I answerable that thoughtless and unprincipled men exist , whose shades of countenance may resemble mine ? Cora calmly demanded of the excited savage . 
The pale faces have driven the red skins from their hunting grounds , and now when they fight , a white man leads the way . 
The old chief at Horican , your father , was the great captain of our war party . 
He said to the Mohawks do this , and do that , and he was minded . 
He made a law , that if an Indian swallowed the fire water , and came into the cloth wigwams of his warriors , it should not be forgotten . 
Magua foolishly opened his mouth , and the hot liquor led him into the cabin of Munro . 
What did the gray head ? let his daughter say . 
He forgot not his words , and did justice , by punishing the offender , said the undaunted daughter . 
The Huron chief was tied up before all the pale faced warriors , and whipped like a dog . 
Cora remained silent , for she knew not how to palliate this imprudent severity on the part of her father in a manner to suit the comprehension of an Indian . 
I had thought , resumed Cora , that an Indian warrior was patient , and that his spirit felt not and knew not the pain his body suffered . 
The spirit of a Huron is never drunk it remembers forever ! But it may be appeased . 
If my father has done you this injustice , show him how an Indian can forgive an injury , and take back his daughters . 
You have heard from Major Heyward Magua shook his head , forbidding the repetition of offers he so much despised . 
What a Huron loves good for good bad for bad ! You would , then , revenge the injury inflicted by Munro on his helpless daughters . 
Purchase wealth by her safety and satisfy your revenge with a single victim . 
The loss of both his daughters might bring the aged man to his grave , and where would then be the satisfaction of Le Renard ? Listen , said the Indian again . 
What must I promise ? demanded Cora , still maintaining a secret ascendancy over the fierce native by the collected and feminine dignity of her presence . 
Let the daughter of the English chief follow , and live in his wigwam forever . 
However revolting a proposal of such a character might prove to Cora , she retained , notwithstanding her powerful disgust , sufficient self command to reply , without betraying the weakness . 
The daughter of Munro would draw his water , hoe his corn , and cook his venison . 
The body of the gray head would sleep among his cannon , but his heart would lie within reach of the knife of Le Subtil . 
Monster ! well dost thou deserve thy treacherous name , cried Cora , in an ungovernable burst of filial indignation . 
None but a fiend could meditate such a vengeance . 
Cora , already regretting her precipitation , was obliged to comply , for Magua instantly left the spot , and approached his gluttonous comrades . 
Heyward flew to the side of the agitated female , and demanded the result of a dialogue that he had watched at a distance with so much interest . 
But , unwilling to alarm the fears of Alice , she evaded a direct reply , betraying only by her anxious looks fastened on the slightest movements of her captors . 
The first syllables he uttered had the effect to cause his listeners to raise themselves in attitudes of respectful attention . 
At first , the language , as well as the action of Magua , appeared calm and deliberative . 
Frequent indications of applause escaped the listeners , who , as they uttered the expressive Hugh ! looked at each other in commendation of the speaker . 
Le Renard was too skillful to neglect his advantage . 
He now spoke of the long and painful route by which they had left those spacious grounds and happy villages , to come and battle against the enemies of their Canadian fathers . 
He enumerated the warriors of the party their several merits their frequent services to the nation their wounds , and the number of the scalps they had taken . 
, the dark countenance of the flattered individual gleamed with exultation , nor did he even hesitate to assert the truth of the words , by gestures of applause and confirmation . 
Then the voice of the speaker fell , and lost the loud , animated tones of triumph with which he had enumerated their deeds of success and victory . 
He pointed toward the youthful military captive , and described the death of a favorite warrior , who had been precipitated into the deep ravine by his hand . 
When this recital of events was ended , his voice once more changed , and became plaintive and even musical , in its low guttural sounds . 
He now spoke of the wives and children of the slain their destitution their misery , both physical and moral their distance and , at last , of their unavenged wrongs . 
During the foregoing address the progress of the speaker was too plainly read by those most interested in his success through the medium of the countenances of the men he addressed . 
They had answered his melancholy and mourning by sympathy and sorrow his assertions , by gestures of confirmation and his boasting , with the exultation of savages . 
Heyward threw himself between the sisters and the foremost , whom he grappled with a desperate strength that for a moment checked his violence . 
This unexpected resistance gave Magua time to interpose , and with rapid enunciation and animated gesture , he drew the attention of the band again to himself . 
In that language he knew so well how to assume , he diverted his comrades from their instant purpose , and invited them to prolong the misery of their victims . 
His proposal was received with acclamations , and executed with the swiftness of thought . 
Two powerful warriors cast themselves on Heyward , while another was occupied in securing the less active singing master . 
Neither of the captives , however , submitted without a desperate , though fruitless , struggle . 
Even David hurled his assailant to the earth nor was Heyward secured until the victory over his companion enabled the Indians to direct their united force to that object . 
He was then bound and fastened to the body of the sapling , on whose branches Magua had acted the pantomime of the falling Huron . 
When the young soldier regained his recollection , he had the painful certainty before his eyes that a common fate was intended for the whole party . 
On his right was Cora in a durance similar to his own , pale and agitated , but with an eye whose steady look still read the proceedings of their enemies . 
On his left , the withes which bound her to a pine , performed that office for Alice which her trembling limbs refused , and alone kept her fragile form from sinking . 
David had contended , and the novelty of the circumstance held him silent , in deliberation on the propriety of the unusual occurrence . 
The vengeance of the Hurons had now taken a new direction , and they prepared to execute it with that barbarous ingenuity with which they were familiarized by the practise of centuries . 
But the vengeance of Magua sought a deeper and more malignant enjoyment . 
Nothing ! was the firm reply . 
He is a savage , a barbarous and ignorant savage , and knows not what he does . 
Let us find leisure , with our dying breath , to ask for him penitence and pardon . 
Cora could not resist the desire to look upon her youthful sister , in whose eyes she met an imploring glance , that betrayed the longings of nature . 
What says he , dearest Cora ? asked the trembling voice of Alice . 
Did he speak of sending me to our father ? For many moments the elder sister looked upon the younger , with a countenance that wavered with powerful and contending emotions . 
At length she spoke , though her tones had lost their rich and calm fullness , in an expression of tenderness that seemed maternal . 
Cora ! Cora ! you jest with our misery ! Name not the horrid alternative again the thought itself is worse than a thousand deaths . 
That such would be your answer , I well knew ! exclaimed Cora , her cheeks flushing , and her dark eyes once more sparkling with the lingering emotions of a woman . 
What says my Alice ? for her will I submit without another murmur . 
Although both Heyward and Cora listened with painful suspense and the deepest attention , no sounds were heard in reply . 
It appeared as if the delicate and sensitive form of Alice would shrink into itself , as she listened to this proposal . 
In a few moments , however , her head began to move slowly , in a sign of deep , unconquerable disapprobation . 
The axe cleaved the air in front of Heyward , and cutting some of the flowing ringlets of Alice , quivered in the tree above her head . 
The sight maddened Duncan to desperation . 
They encountered , grappled , and fell to the earth together . 
Duncan already saw the knife gleaming in the air , when a whistling sound swept past him , and was rather accompanied than followed by the sharp crack of a rifle . 
I am gone , sire , And anon , sire , I'll be with you again . 
Twelfth Night The Hurons stood aghast at this sudden visitation of death on one of their band . 
It was the signal for a general combat . 
Neither party had firearms , and the contest was to be decided in the deadliest manner , hand to hand , with weapons of offense , and none of defense . 
Uncas answered the whoop , and leaping on an enemy , with a single , well directed blow of his tomahawk , cleft him to the brain . 
Heyward tore the weapon of Magua from the sapling , and rushed eagerly toward the fray . 
As the combatants were now equal in number , each singled an opponent from the adverse band . 
The rush and blows passed with the fury of a whirlwind , and the swiftness of lightning . 
Heyward ventured to hurl the tomahawk he had seized , too ardent to await the moment of closing . 
It struck the Indian he had selected on the forehead , and checked for an instant his onward rush . 
Encouraged by this slight advantage , the impetuous young man continued his onset , and sprang upon his enemy with naked hands . 
When Uncas had brained his first antagonist , he turned , like a hungry lion , to seek another . 
Raising a shout of triumph , he sprang toward the defenseless Cora , sending his keen axe as the dreadful precursor of his approach . 
The tomahawk grazed her shoulder , and cutting the withes which bound her to the tree , left the maiden at liberty to fly . 
Any other than a monster would have relented at such an act of generous devotion to the best and purest affection but the breast of the Huron was a stranger to sympathy . 
Seizing Cora by the rich tresses which fell in confusion about her form , he tore her from her frantic hold , and bowed her down with brutal violence to her knees . 
But he purchased this moment of fierce gratification with the loss of the fatal opportunity . 
It was just then the sight caught the eye of Uncas . 
The violence of the exertion cast the young Mohican at his side . 
They arose together , fought , and bled , each in his turn . 
The battle was now entirely terminated with the exception of the protracted struggle between Le Renard Subtil and Le Gros Serpent . 
Well did these barbarous warriors prove that they deserved those significant names which had been bestowed for deeds in former wars . 
When they engaged , some little time was lost in eluding the quick and vigorous thrusts which had been aimed at their lives . 
Suddenly darting on each other , they closed , and came to the earth , twisted together like twining serpents , in pliant and subtle folds . 
Covered as they were with dust and blood , the swift evolutions of the combatants seemed to incorporate their bodies into one . 
In this manner the scene of the combat was removed from the center of the little plain to its verge . 
The Mohican now found an opportunity to make a powerful thrust with his knife Magua suddenly relinquished his grasp , and fell backward without motion , and seemingly without life . 
His adversary leaped on his feet , making the arches of the forest ring with the sounds of triumph . 
See , Uncas , he added , in Delaware , your father if flaying the scalps already . 
He had , however , been anticipated by the elder Mohican , who had already torn the emblems of victory from the unresisting heads of the slain . 
We are saved ! we are saved ! she murmured to return to the arms of our dear , dear father , and his heart will not be broken with grief . 
And you , too , Cora , my sister , my more than sister , my mother you , too , are spared . 
And Duncan , she added , looking round upon the youth with a smile of ineffable innocence , even our own brave and noble Duncan has escaped without a hurt . 
To these ardent and nearly innocent words Cora made no other answer than by straining the youthful speaker to her heart , as she bent over her in melting tenderness . 
Arms and the clarion for the battle , but the song of thanksgiving to the victory ! answered the liberated David . 
That I did not join myself to the battle , was less owing to disinclination , than to the bonds of the heathen . 
I have got back my old companion , 'killdeer' , he added , striking his hand on the breech of his rifle and that in itself is a victory . 
But 'twas all fore ordered , and for the best . 
Thou sayest well , returned David , and hast caught the true spirit of Christianity . 
He that is to be saved will be saved , and he that is predestined to be damned will be damned . 
This is the doctrine of truth , and most consoling and refreshing it is to the true believer . 
Doctrine or no doctrine , said the sturdy woodsman , 'tis the belief of knaves , and the curse of an honest man . 
What call you the volume ? said David , misconceiving the other's meaning . 
'Tis open before your eyes , returned the scout and he who owns it is not a niggard of its use . 
I have heard it said that there are men who read in books to convince themselves there is a God . 
I know not but man may so deform his works in the settlement , as to leave that which is so clear in the wilderness a matter of doubt among traders and priests . 
This time he was , however , without any accompaniment , for the sisters were just then pouring out those tender effusions of affection which have been already alluded to . 
Hawkeye listened while he coolly adjusted his flint and reloaded his rifle but the sounds , wanting the extraneous assistance of scene and sympathy , failed to awaken his slumbering emotions . 
In this office he was now joined by Chingachgook , who found his own , as well as the rifle of his son , among the arms . 
Even Heyward and David were furnished with weapons nor was ammunition wanting to render them all effectual . 
When the foresters had made their selection , and distributed their prizes , the scout announced that the hour had arrived when it was necessary to move . 
By this time the song of Gamut had ceased , and the sisters had learned to still the exhibition of their emotions . 
The journey was , however , short . 
Their distance from the base of the fatal hill was but a few rods , and the steeds had been serviceable only in crossing the shallow stream . 
The white man then looked about him , as though seeking for some object , which was not to be found as readily as he expected . 
Uncas silently extended toward him the desired gourd , which the spleen of Hawkeye had hitherto prevented him from observing on a branch of an elm . 
Thank you , lad ! he continued , returning the empty gourd to Uncas now we will see how these rampaging Hurons lived , when outlying in ambushments . 
Uncas , take my steel and kindle a fire a mouthful of a tender broil will give natur' a helping hand , after so long a trail . 
You were , then , witnesses of all that passed ? Not of all for Indian sight is too keen to be easily cheated , and we kept close . 
A difficult matter it was , too , to keep this Mohican boy snug in the ambushment . 
Ah ! Uncas , Uncas , your behavior was more like that of a curious woman than of a warrior on his scent . 
Uncas permitted his eyes to turn for an instant on the sturdy countenance of the speaker , but he neither spoke nor gave any indication of repentance . 
You saw our capture ? Heyward next demanded . 
We heard it , was the significant answer . 
An Indian yell is plain language to men who have passed their days in the woods . 
Our rescue was the deed of Providence . 
It was nearly a miracle that you did not mistake the path , for the Hurons divided , and each band had its horses . 
Our captors had the precaution to see us shod like themselves , said Duncan , raising a foot , and exhibiting the buckskin he wore . 
Aye , 'twas judgmatical and like themselves though we were too expart to be thrown from a trail by so common an invention . 
And yet here are horses that always journey in this manner , as my own eyes have seen , and as their trail has shown for twenty long miles . 
Major Effingham has many noble chargers , but I have never seen one travel after such a sidling gait . 
True for he would value the animals for very different properties . 
Still is this a breed highly esteemed and , as you witness , much honored with the burdens it is often destined to bear . 
The scout ruminated , like a man digesting his newly acquired knowledge , and once more stole a glance at the horses . 
But , go sidling or go straight , Uncas had seen the movement , and their trail led us on to the broken bush . 
Few red skins , who travel south and east of the great lakes but have heard of its qualities . 
Will you taste for yourself ? Heyward took the gourd , and after swallowing a little of the water , threw it aside with grimaces of discontent . 
The scout laughed in his silent but heartfelt manner , and shook his head with vast satisfaction . 
Your high spiced wines are not better liked than a red skin relishes this water especially when his natur' is ailing . 
But Uncas has made his fire , and it is time we think of eating , for our journey is long , and all before us . 
Many of the animals of the American forests resort to those spots where salt springs are found . 
These licks are great places of resort with the hunters , who waylay their game near the paths that lead to them . 
Interrupting the dialogue by this abrupt transition , the scout had instant recourse to the fragments of food which had escaped the voracity of the Hurons . 
Then Hawkeye announced his determination to proceed . 
The sisters resumed their saddles Duncan and David grapsed their rifles , and followed on footsteps the scout leading the advance , and the Mohicans bringing up the rear . 
The scene of the foregoing incidents is on the spot where the village of Ballston now stands one of the two principal watering places of America . 
CHAPTER I'll seek a readier path . 
The sun had now fallen low toward the distant mountains and as their journey lay through the interminable forest , the heat was no longer oppressive . 
Their progress , in consequence , was proportionate and long before the twilight gathered about them , they had made good many toilsome miles on their return . 
If my marks do not fail me , we shall find the place a few rods further to our left . 
The recollection of the scout did not deceive him . 
While Heyward and his companions hesitated to approach a building so decayed , Hawkeye and the Indians entered within the low walls , not only without fear , but with obvious interest . 
A strain of melancholy , however , blended with his triumph , rendering his voice , as usual , soft and musical . 
I was then a younker , and went out with the Delawares , because I know'd they were a scandalized and wronged race . 
The eyes of the listeners involuntarily sought the forms of the Indians , with a compassionate interest in their desolate fortune . 
Uncas , clear out the spring , while your father and I make a cover for their tender heads of these chestnut shoots , and a bed of grass and leaves . 
The dialogue ceased , while the hunter and his companions busied themselves in preparations for the comfort and protection of those they guided . 
While the diligent woodsmen were employed in this manner , Cora and Alice partook of that refreshment which duty required much more than inclination prompted them to accept . 
Let all the party seek their rest , then , while I hold the guard . 
Do then , like Uncas and myself , sleep , and sleep in safety . 
Hawkeye , believing he had prevailed , soon fell asleep , and a silence as deep as the solitude in which they had found it , pervaded the retired spot . 
For many minutes Duncan succeeded in keeping his senses on the alert , and alive to every moaning sound that arose from the forest . 
Aroused by this signal , slight as it was , he sprang upon his feet with a confused recollection of the self imposed duty he had assumed with the commencement of the night . 
Who comes ? he demanded , feeling for his sword , at the place where it was usually suspended . 
It is but too true , that after leading you into danger by my heedlessness , I have not even the merit of guarding your pillows as should become a soldier . 
No one but Duncan himself should accuse Duncan of such a weakness . 
Go , then , and sleep believe me , neither of us , weak girls as we are , will betray our watch . 
The Mohicans hear an enemy ! whispered Hawkeye , who , by this time , in common with the whole party , was awake and stirring . 
They scent danger in the wind ! God forbid ! exclaimed Heyward . 
The sound of approaching footsteps were now too distinctly audible to leave any doubts as to the nature of the interruption . 
They were soon mingled with voices calling to each other in an Indian dialect , which the hunter , in a whisper , affirmed to Heyward was the language of the Hurons . 
It would seem by the voices that twenty men were soon collected at that one spot , mingling their different opinions and advice in noisy clamor . 
Listen to the reptiles ! each man among them seems to have two tongues , and but a single leg . 
Duncan , brave as he was in the combat , could not , in such a moment of painful suspense , make any reply to the cool and characteristic remark of the scout . 
He only grasped his rifle more firmly , and fastened his eyes upon the narrow opening , through which he gazed upon the moonlight view with increasing anxiety . 
The deeper tones of one who spoke as having authority were next heard , amid a silence that denoted the respect with which his orders , or rather advice , was received . 
After which , by the rustling of leaves , and crackling of dried twigs , it was apparent the savages were separating in pursuit of the lost trail . 
They are coming , muttered Heyward , endeavoring to thrust his rifle through the chink in the logs let us fire on their approach . 
Curbing his impatience , he again looked out upon the area , and awaited the result in silence . 
At that instant the thicket opened , and a tall and armed Huron advanced a few paces into the open space . 
As he gazed upon the silent blockhouse , the moon fell upon his swarthy countenance , and betrayed its surprise and curiosity . 
He made the exclamation which usually accompanies the former emotion in an Indian , and , calling in a low voice , soon drew a companion to his side . 
These children of the woods stood together for several moments pointing at the crumbling edifice , and conversing in the unintelligible language of their tribe . 
The foot of one of them suddenly rested on the mound , and he stopped to examine its nature . 
At this moment , Heyward observed that the scout loosened his knife in its sheath , and lowered the muzzle of his rifle . 
Imitating these movements , the young man prepared himself for the struggle which now seemed inevitable . 
The savages were so near , that the least motion in one of the horses , or even a breath louder than common , would have betrayed the fugitives . 
But in discovering the character of the mound , the attention of the Hurons appeared directed to a different object . 
They spoke together , and the sounds of their voices were low and solemn , as if influenced by a reverence that was deeply blended with awe . 
Heyward lent his attention for a single moment to his companion , but without replying , he again turned toward those who just then interested him more . 
He heard the two Hurons leave the bushes , and it was soon plain that all the pursuers were gathered about them , in deep attention to their report . 
Qui est la ? Puc . 
Paisans , pauvres gens de France . 
More than once he halted to consult with his confederates , the Mohicans , pointing upward at the moon , and examining the barks of the trees with care . 
In these brief pauses , Heyward and the sisters listened , with senses rendered doubly acute by the danger , to detect any symptoms which might announce the proximity of their foes . 
Birds , beasts , and man , appeared to slumber alike , if , indeed , any of the latter were to be found in that wide tract of wilderness . 
But the sounds of the rivulet , feeble and murmuring as they were , relieved the guides at once from no trifling embarrassment , and toward it they immediately held their way . 
When the banks of the little stream were gained , Hawkeye made another halt and taking the moccasins from his feet , he invited Heyward and Gamut to follow his example . 
He then entered the water , and for near an hour they traveled in the bed of the brook , leaving no trail . 
It is yet a long and weary path , and when and where to strike it is now our greatest difficulty . 
Ha ! that sheet of dull and dreary water , then , is the sepulcher of the brave men who fell in the contest . 
I have heard it named , but never have I stood on its banks before . 
Three battles did we make with the Dutch Frenchman in a day , continued Hawkeye , pursuing the train of his own thoughts , rather than replying to the remark of Duncan . 
He met us hard by , in our outward march to ambush his advance , and scattered us , like driven deer , through the defile , to the shores of Horican . 
Baron Dieskau , a German , in the service of France . 
A few years previously to the period of the tale , this officer was defeated by Sir William Johnson , of Johnstown , New York , on the shores of Lake George . 
'Twas a noble repulse ! exclaimed Heyward , in the heat of his youthful ardor the fame of it reached us early , in our southern army . 
Ay ! but it did not end there . 
And you surprised them ? If death can be a surprise to men who are thinking only of the cravings of their appetites . 
When all was over , the dead , and some say the dying , were cast into that little pond . 
These eyes have seen its waters colored with blood , as natural water never yet flowed from the bowels of the 'arth . 
It was a convenient , and , I trust , will prove a peaceful grave for a soldier . 
As for the grave there being as quiet as you mention , it is another matter . 
Hist ! see you nothing walking on the shore of the pond ? 'Tis not probable that any are as houseless as ourselves in this dreary forest . 
By heaven , there is a human form , and it approaches ! Stand to your arms , my friends for we know not whom we encounter . 
Qui vive ? demanded a stern , quick voice , which sounded like a challenge from another world , issuing out of that solitary and solemn place . 
What says it ? whispered the scout it speaks neither Indian nor English . 
Qui vive ? repeated the same voice , which was quickly followed by the rattling of arms , and a menacing attitude . 
France ! cried Heyward , advancing from the shadow of the trees to the shore of the pond , within a few yards of the sentinel . 
D'ou venez vous ou allez vous , d'aussi bonne heure ? demanded the grenadier , in the language and with the accent of a man from old France . 
Je viens de la decouverte , et je vais me coucher . 
j'ai ici , avec moi , les filles du commandant de la fortification . 
Aha ! tu en as entendu parler ! je les ai fait prisonnieres pres de l'autre fort , et je les conduis au general . 
C'est le caractere des gens de guerre , said Cora , with admirable self possession . 
Adieu , mon ami je vous souhaiterais un devoir plus agreable a remplir . 
He was interrupted by a long and heavy groan which arose from the little basin , as though , in truth , the spirits of the departed lingered about their watery sepulcher . 
Surely it was of flesh , continued the scout no spirit could handle its arms so steadily . 
While they yet hesitated in uncertainty , the form of the Indian was seen gliding out of the thicket . 
He then took his wonted station , with the air of a man who believed he had done a deed of merit . 
The scout dropped one end of his rifle to the earth , and leaning his hands on the other , he stood musing in profound silence . 
I could wish , though it had befallen an accursed Mingo , rather than that gay young boy from the old countries . 
Ay , the French have gathered around the fort in good earnest and we have a delicate needle to thread in passing them . 
And but little time to do it in , added Heyward , glancing his eyes upwards , toward the bank of vapor that concealed the setting moon . 
And little time to do it in ! repeated the scout . 
The thing may be done in two fashions , by the help of Providence , without which it may not be done at all . 
Name them quickly for time presses . 
It will not do it will not do ! interrupted the generous Heyward a soldier might force his way in this manner , but never with such a convoy . 
'Twould be , indeed , a bloody path for such tender feet to wade in , returned the equally reluctant scout but I thought it befitting my manhood to name it . 
Let it be done , and that instantly . 
Further words were unnecessary for Hawkeye , merely uttering the mandate to follow , moved along the route by which they had just entered their present critical and even dangerous situation . 
As they held their silent way along the margin of the pond , again Heyward and the scout stole furtive glances at its appalling dreariness . 
The route was now painful lying over ground ragged with rocks , and intersected with ravines , and their progress proportionately slow . 
Bleak and black hills lay on every side of them , compensating in some degree for the additional toil of the march by the sense of security they imparted . 
Go , he said , and seek your food where natur' gives it to you and beware that you become not food to ravenous wolves yourselves , among these hills . 
Have we no further need of them ? demanded Heyward . 
To the shout stretched the defile , or rather broken plain , so often mentioned . 
A single , solitary , snow white cloud floated above the valley , and marked the spot beneath which lay the silent pool of the bloody pond . 
Directly on the shore of the lake , and nearer to its western than to its eastern margin , lay the extensive earthen ramparts and low buildings of William Henry . 
Two of the sweeping bastions appeared to rest on the water which washed their bases , while a deep ditch and extensive morasses guarded its other sides and angles . 
But the spectacle which most concerned the young soldier was on the western bank of the lake , though quite near to its southern termination . 
Morning is just touching them below , said the deliberate and musing scout , and the watchers have a mind to wake up the sleepers by the sound of cannon . 
We are a few hours too late ! Montcalm has already filled the woods with his accursed Iroquois . 
Let us go to Montcalm , and demand admission he dare not deny a child the boon . 
You would scarce find the tent of the Frenchman with the hair on your head said the blunt scout . 
We are equal , said Cora , firmly on such an errand we will follow to any danger . 
He then waved his hand for them to follow , and threw himself down the steep declivity , with free , but careful footsteps . 
Heyward assisted the sisters to descend , and in a few minutes they were all far down a mountain whose sides they had climbed with so much toil and pain . 
The Mohicans profited by the delay , to steal out of the woods , and to make a survey of surrounding objects . 
In a very few moments he returned , his face reddened with vexation , while he muttered his disappointment in words of no very gentle import . 
The Indians followed instantly like busy attendants on the terrible messenger , and Uncas commenced speaking earnestly and with much action , in the Delaware tongue . 
It may be so , lad , muttered the scout , when he had ended for desperate fevers are not to be treated like a toothache . 
Come , then , the fog is shutting in . 
Stop ! cried Heyward first explain your expectations . 
'Tis soon done , and a small hope it is but it is better than nothing . 
No more words , but follow , or the fog may leave us in the middle of our path , a mark for both armies to shoot at . 
Push on ! repeated Heyward when the summons was renewed by a dozen voices , each of which seemed charged with menace . 
C'est moi , cried Duncan , dragging rather than leading those he supported swiftly onward . 
Bete ! qui ? moi ! Ami de la France . 
Tu m'as plus l'air d'un ennemi de la France arrete ou pardieu je te ferai ami du diable . 
Non ! feu , camarades , feu ! The order was instantly obeyed , and the fog was stirred by the explosion of fifty muskets . 
The outcry was renewed , and the order , not only to fire again , but to pursue , was too plainly audible . 
When Heyward briefly explained the meaning of the words they heard , Hawkeye halted and spoke with quick decision and great firmness . 
Let us deliver our fire , he said they will believe it a sortie , and give way , or they will wait for reinforcements . 
The scheme was well conceived , but failed in its effects . 
We shall draw their entire army upon us , and bring on a general assault , said Duncan lead on , my friend , for your own life and ours . 
The scout seemed willing to comply but , in the hurry of the moment , and in the change of position , he had lost the direction . 
In vain he turned either cheek toward the light air they felt equally cool . 
In this dilemma , Uncas lighted on the furrow of the cannon ball , where it had cut the ground in three adjacent ant hills . 
Give me the range ! said Hawkeye , bending to catch a glimpse of the direction , and then instantly moving onward . 
Cries , oaths , voices calling to each other , and the reports of muskets , were now quick and incessant , and , apparently , on every side of them . 
'Tis from the fort ! exclaimed Hawkeye , turning short on his tracks and we , like stricken fools , were rushing to the woods , under the very knives of the Maquas . 
The instant their mistake was rectified , the whole party retraced the error with the utmost diligence . 
Duncan willingly relinquished the support of Cora to the arm of Uncas and Cora as readily accepted the welcome assistance . 
Men , hot and angry in pursuit , were evidently on their footsteps , and each instant threatened their capture , if not their destruction . 
Point de quartier aux coquins ! cried an eager pursuer , who seemed to direct the operations of the enemy . 
Stand firm , and be ready , my gallant Sixtieths ! suddenly exclaimed a voice above them wait to see the enemy , fire low and sweep the glacis . 
He knew them for his own battalion of the Royal Americans , and flying to their head , soon swept every trace of his pursuers from before the works . 
It appeared as if Webb , with his army , which lay slumbering on the banks of the Hudson , had utterly forgotten the strait to which his countrymen were reduced . 
Not so , however , with the besieged . 
This sort of contempt for eminences , or rather dread of the labor of ascending them , might have been termed the besetting weakness of the warfare of the period . 
Evidently the late De Witt Clinton , who died governor of New York in . 
The evils of this state of things pressed heavily on the fortunes of the resolute Scotsman who now defended William Henry . 
Though his adversary neglected the hills , he had planted his batteries with judgment on the plain , and caused them to be served with vigor and skill . 
Against this assault , the besieged could only oppose the imperfect and hasty preparations of a fortress in the wilderness . 
He was alone , if the solitary sentinel who paced the mound be excepted for the artillerists had hastened also to profit by the temporary suspension of their arduous duties . 
The evening was delightfully calm , and the light air from the limpid water fresh and soothing . 
It seemed as if , with the termination of the roar of artillery and the plunging of shot , nature had also seized the moment to assume her mildest and most captivating form . 
The sun poured down his parting glory on the scene , without the oppression of those fierce rays that belong to the climate and the season . 
The mountains looked green , and fresh , and lovely , tempered with the milder light , or softened in shadow , as thin vapors floated between them and the sun . 
The scene was at once animated and still . 
All that pertained to nature was sweet , or simply grand while those parts which depended on the temper and movements of man were lively and playful . 
Behind these again swung , heavily opening and closing in silken folds , the rival standards of England and France . 
Some were rushing eagerly to enjoy the aquatic games of the lake , and others were already toiling their way up the neighboring hills , with the restless curiosity of their nation . 
To all these sports and pursuits , those of the enemy who watched the besieged , and the besieged themselves , were , however , merely the idle though sympathizing spectators . 
In short , everything wore rather the appearance of a day of pleasure , than of an hour stolen from the dangers and toil of a bloody and vindictive warfare . 
He walked to an angle of the bastion , and beheld the scout advancing , under the custody of a French officer , to the body of the fort . 
The countenance of Hawkeye was haggard and careworn , and his air dejected , as though he felt the deepest degradation at having fallen into the power of his enemies . 
He was without his favorite weapon , and his arms were even bound behind him with thongs , made of the skin of a deer . 
The sounds of other voices , however , caught his attention , and for a moment caused him to forget his purpose . 
At the inner angle of the mound he met the sisters , walking along the parapet , in search , like himself , of air and relief from confinement . 
They had not met from that painful moment when he deserted them on the plain , only to assure their safety . 
He had parted from them worn with care , and jaded with fatigue he now saw them refreshed and blooming , though timid and anxious . 
Under such an inducement it will cause no surprise that the young man lost sight for a time , of other objects in order to address them . 
He was , however , anticipated by the voice of the ingenuous and youthful Alice . 
In truth , we have a little wonder why you should so rigidly absent yourself from a place where the gratitude of the daughters might receive the support of a parent's thanks . 
My days and nights have all been passed there since we separated , because I thought that duty called me thither . 
Cora can say , if Cora would , how justly we have prized your services , and how deep I had almost said , how fervent is our gratitude . 
And will Cora attest the truth of this ? cried Duncan , suffering the cloud to be chased from his countenance by a smile of open pleasure . 
You are not well , dearest Miss Munro ! he exclaimed we have trifled while you are in suffering ! 'Tis nothing , she answered , refusing his support with feminine reserve . 
Neither ought nor shall be tarnished by circumstances over which he has had no control , Duncan warmly replied . 
But your words recall me to my own duty . 
I go now to your gallant father , to hear his determination in matters of the last moment to the defense . 
God bless you in every fortune , noble Cora I may and must call you . 
She frankly gave him her hand , though her lip quivered , and her cheeks gradually became of ashly paleness . 
In every fortune , I know you will be an ornament and honor to your sex . 
Munro was pacing his narrow apartment with a disturbed air and gigantic strides as Duncan entered . 
You have anticipated my wishes , Major Heyward , he said I was about to request this favor . 
There is a letter , it would seem , too and that is the only agreeable part of the matter . 
But what says the scout ? he has eyes and ears , and a tongue . 
What verbal report does he make ? Oh ! sir , he is not wanting in natural organs , and he is free to tell all that he has seen and heard . 
While there is hope of succor , this fortress will I defend , though it be to be done with pebbles gathered on the lake shore . 
Without assuming the supererogatory task of entering into a discussion of the comparative merits of national courtesy , Duncan cheerfully assented to supply the place of the veteran in the approaching interview . 
He was received by the French officer in advance with the usual formalities , and immediately accompanied to a distant marquee of the renowned soldier who led the forces of France . 
Mais , monsieur , is it not time to begin to take more counsel of humanity , and less of your courage ? The one as strongly characterizes the hero as the other . 
Montcalm , in his turn , slightly bowed , but it was with the air of a man too practised to remember the language of flattery . 
After musing a moment , he added It is possible my glasses have deceived me , and that your works resist our cannon better than I had supposed . 
You know our force ? Our accounts vary , said Duncan , carelessly the highest , however , has not exceeded twenty thousand men . 
If it were to be done at all , one would believe it might succeed in these woods . 
Were nothing but resolution necessary to repel so accomplished a soldier as M. de Montcalm , I would gladly trust the defense of William Henry to the elder of those ladies . 
Our mounds are earthen , certainly nor are they seated on the rocks of Cape Diamond but they stand on that shore which proved so destructive to Dieskau and his army . 
There is also a powerful force within a few hours' march of us , which we account upon as a part of our means . 
Some six or eight thousand men , returned Montcalm , with much apparent indifference , whom their leader wisely judges to be safer in their works than in the field . 
It was now Heyward's turn to bite his lip with vexation as the other so coolly alluded to a force which the young man knew to be overrated . 
Both mused a little while in silence , when Montcalm renewed the conversation , in a way that showed he believed the visit of his guest was solely to propose terms of capitulation . 
On the other hand , Heyward began to throw sundry inducements in the way of the French general , to betray the discoveries he had made through the intercepted letter . 
Before you fight the battle ope this letter . 
Lear Major Heyward found Munro attended only by his daughters . 
Cora was seated nigh them , a calm and amused looker on regarding the wayward movements of her more youthful sister with that species of maternal fondness which characterized her love for Alice . 
Not only the dangers through which they had passed , but those which still impended above them , appeared to be momentarily forgotten , in the soothing indulgence of such a family meeting . 
Of this scene , Duncan , who , in his eagerness to report his arrival , had entered unannounced , stood many moments an unobserved and a delighted spectator . 
At length he raised his eyes , glistening with a father's fondness , and exclaimed They are a pair of excellent girls , Heyward , and such as any one may boast of . 
You are not now to learn my opinion of your daughters , Colonel Munro . 
But I was wrong , Duncan , boy , I was wrong there and I am now ready to hear what you have to say . 
He is not yet master of William Henry , nor shall he ever be , provided Webb proves himself the man he should . 
Your mother was the only child of my bosom friend , Duncan and I'll just give you a hearing , though all the knights of St . 
Louis were in a body at the sally port , with the French saint at their head , crying to speak a word under favor . 
A pretty degree of knighthood , sir , is that which can be bought with sugar hogsheads ! and then your twopenny marquisates . 
The thistle is the order for dignity and antiquity the veritable 'nemo me impune lacessit' of chivalry . 
Ye had ancestors in that degree , Duncan , and they were an ornament to the nobles of Scotland . 
Ay , boy , you found words to make yourself very plainly comprehended . 
Your notions are those of a gentleman , Major Heyward , and well enough in their place . 
But Cora Munro is a maiden too discreet , and of a mind too elevated and improved , to need the guardianship even of a father . 
And to marry whom , then , did you wish my consent , Major Heyward ? demanded the old soldier , erecting himself in the dignity of offended feeling . 
You have another , and not less lovely child . 
Alice ! exclaimed the father , in an astonishment equal to that with which Duncan had just repeated the name of her sister . 
Such was the direction of my wishes , sir . 
The young man awaited in silence the result of the extraordinary effect produced by a communication , which , as it now appeared , was so unexpected . 
For several minutes Munro paced the chamber with long and rapid strides , his rigid features working convulsively , and every faculty seemingly absorbed in the musings of his own mind . 
But all this love would turn to hatred , were I assured that what I so much apprehend is true . 
God forbid that any act or thought of mine should lead to such a change ! exclaimed the young man , whose eye never quailed under the penetrating look it encountered . 
Sit ye down , young man , and I will open to you the wounds of a seared heart , in as few words as may be suitable . 
By this time , the message of Montcalm was as much forgotten by him who bore it as by the man for whose ears it was intended . 
I was , maybe , such an one as yourself when I plighted my faith to Alice Graham , the only child of a neighboring laird of some estate . 
But the connection was disagreeable to her father , on more accounts than my poverty . 
I did , therefore , what an honest man should restored the maiden her troth , and departed the country in the service of my king . 
I had seen many regions , and had shed much blood in different lands , before duty called me to the islands of the West Indies . 
There it was my lot to form a connection with one who in time became my wife , and the mother of Cora . 
Ay , sir , that is a curse , entailed on Scotland by her unnatural union with a foreign and trading people . 
'Tis most unfortunately true , sir , said Duncan , unable any longer to prevent his eyes from sinking to the floor in embarrassment . 
The sweetness , the beauty , the witchery of your younger daughter , Colonel Munro , might explain my motives without imputing to me this injustice . 
And became the mother of Alice ? exclaimed Duncan , with an eagerness that might have proved dangerous at a moment when the thoughts of Munro were less occupied that at present . 
She did , indeed , said the old man , and dearly did she pay for the blessing she bestowed . 
But she is a saint in heaven , sir and it ill becomes one whose foot rests on the grave to mourn a lot so blessed . 
I had her but a single year , though a short term of happiness for one who had seen her youth fade in hopeless pining . 
There was something so commanding in the distress of the old man , that Heyward did not dare to venture a syllable of consolation . 
You have said enough , Major Heyward , exclaimed the angry old man enough to make a volume of commentary on French civility . 
There might be not bad policy in such a stroke , young man . 
Duncan , who believe it of the last importance that they should speedily come to the contents of the letter borne by the scout , gladly encouraged this idea . 
Without doubt , he could gather no confidence by witnessing our indifference , he said . 
You never said truer word . 
The beauty and manliness of warfare has been much deformed , Major Heyward , by the arts of your Monsieur Vauban . 
Our ancestors were far above such scientific cowardice ! It may be very true , sir but we are now obliged to repel art by art . 
Go , Major Heyward , and give them a flourish of the music and send out a messenger to let them know who is coming . 
A very few minutes only were necessary to parade a few files , and to dispatch an orderly with a flag to announce the approach of the commandant of the fort . 
When Duncan had done both these , he led the guard to the sally port , near which he found his superior ready , waiting his appearance . 
As soon as the usual ceremonials of a military departure were observed , the veteran and his more youthful companion left the fortress , attended by the escort . 
From the moment that Munro left his own works to appear in front of his enemy's , his air had been grand , and his step and countenance highly military . 
If the air of Munro was more commanding and manly , it wanted both the ease and insinuating polish of that of the Frenchman . 
Neither spoke for a few moments , each regarding the other with curious and interested eyes . 
Then , as became his superior rank and the nature of the interview , Montcalm broke the silence . 
There will be no necessity to employ an ordinary interpreter for , in your hands , I feel the same security as if I spoke your language myself . 
were we to dismiss our guard , we should stand here at the mercy of our enemies . 
Monsieur , you have the plighted faith of 'un gentilhomme Fran ais' , for your safety , returned Montcalm , laying his hand impressively on his heart it should suffice . 
Fall back , Duncan added to the officer who led the escort fall back , sir , beyond hearing , and wait for orders . 
Munro witnessed this movement with manifest uneasiness nor did he fail to demand an instant explanation . 
Is it not our interest , sir , to betray distrust ? retorted Duncan . 
Monsieur de Montcalm pledges his word for our safety , and I have ordered the men to withdraw a little , in order to prove how much we depend on his assurance . 
It may be all right , sir , but I have no overweening reliance on the faith of these marquesses , or marquis , as they call themselves . 
Their patents of nobility are too common to be certain that they bear the seal of true honor . 
You forget , dear sir , that we confer with an officer , distinguished alike in Europe and America for his deeds . 
From a soldier of his reputation we can have nothing to apprehend . 
Montcalm waited patiently until this little dialogue in demi voice was ended , when he drew nigher , and opened the subject of their conference . 
I will forever bear testimony that his resistance has been gallant , and was continued as long as there was hope . 
The French general smiled , as Duncan gave him the purport of this reply , and observed What is now so freely accorded to approved courage , may be refused to useless obstinacy . 
Though not at hand , fortunately for us , said Montcalm , without waiting , in his ardor , for the interpreter . 
There is a destiny in war , to which a brave man knows how to submit with the same courage that he faces his foes . 
Your pardon , monsieur , rejoined the Frenchman , suffering a slight color to appear on his dark cheek . 
There is a vast difference between understanding and speaking a foreign tongue you will , therefore , please to assist me still . 
Ask the French general if his glasses can reach to the Hudson , said Munro , proudly and if he knows when and where to expect the army of Webb . 
The veteran seized the offered paper , without waiting for Duncan to translate the speech , and with an eagerness that betrayed how important he deemed its contents . 
Duncan caught the letter from the ground , and without apology for the liberty he took , he read at a glance its cruel purport . 
Here is no deception ! exclaimed Duncan , examining the billet both inside and out this is the signature of Webb , and must be the captured letter . 
Say not so , cried Duncan we are yet masters of the fort , and of our honor . 
Let us , then , sell our lives at such a rate as shall make our enemies believe the purchase too dear . 
Boy , I thank thee , exclaimed the old man , rousing himself from his stupor you have , for once , reminded Munro of his duty . 
We will go back , and dig our graves behind those ramparts . 
Messieurs , said Montcalm , advancing toward them a step , in generous interest , you little know Louis de St . 
Veran if you believe him capable of profiting by this letter to humble brave men , or to build up a dishonest reputation for himself . 
Listen to my terms before you leave me . 
Duncan explained the other's meaning . 
Monsieur de Montcalm , we will hear you , the veteran added , more calmly , as Duncan ended . 
Our colors ? demanded Heyward . 
Carry them to England , and show them to your king . 
Our arms ? Keep them none can use them better . 
Our march the surrender of the place ? Shall all be done in a way most honorable to yourselves . 
Duncan now turned to explain these proposals to his commander , who heard him with amazement , and a sensibility that was deeply touched by so unusual and unexpected generosity . 
Go you , Duncan , he said go with this marquess , as , indeed , marquess he should be go to his marquee and arrange it all . 
I have lived to see two things in my old age that never did I expect to behold . 
An Englishman afraid to support a friend , and a Frenchman too honest to profit by his advantage . 
Duncan remained to settle the terms of the capitulation . 
He was seen to re enter the works during the first watches of the night , and immediately after a private conference with the commandant , to leave them again . 
CHAPTER Weave we the woof . 
While the conquered were still , sullen , and dejected , the victors triumphed . 
As he approached he was received with the usual challenge Qui vive ? France , was the reply . 
Le mot d'ordre ? La victorie , said the other , drawing so nigh as to be heard in a loud whisper . 
The light of an obscure moon was just sufficient to render objects , though dim , perceptible in their outlines . 
Just then a figure was seen to approach the edge of the rampart , where it stood , apparently contemplating in its turn the distant tents of the French encampment . 
It was a low and almost inaudible movement of the water , and was succeeded by a grating of pebbles one against the other . 
A rifle next slowly rose between his eyes and the watery mirror but before it could be discharged his own hand was on the lock . 
Hugh ! exclaimed the savage , whose treacherous aim was so singularly and so unexpectedly interrupted . 
Then throwing open his cloak , so as to expose his uniform and the cross of St . 
Behind the hill and it is dark and cold . 
But when he comes again , it will be bright and warm . 
Le Subtil is the sun of his tribe . 
Magua is a great chief . 
Let him prove it , by teaching his nation how to conduct themselves toward our new friends . 
Why did the chief of the Canadas bring his young men into the woods , and fire his cannon at the earthen house ? demanded the subtle Indian . 
My master owns the land , and your father was ordered to drive off these English squatters . 
They have consented to go , and now he calls them enemies no longer . 
Magua took the hatchet to color it with blood . 
It is now bright when it is red , it shall be buried . 
But Magua is pledged not to sully the lilies of France . 
The enemies of the great king across the salt lake are his enemies his friends , the friends of the Hurons . 
Friends ! repeated the Indian in scorn . 
Let his father give Magua a hand . 
Montcalm , who felt that his influence over the warlike tribes he had gathered was to be maintained by concession rather than by power , complied reluctantly with the other's request . 
And this ? continued the Indian , who had turned his naked back to the other , his body being without its usual calico mantle . 
Then , recollecting himself , with sudden and native dignity , he added Go teach your young men it is peace . 
Le Renard Subtil knows how to speak to a Huron warrior . 
Montcalm lingered long and melancholy on the strand where he had been left by his companion , brooding deeply on the temper which his ungovernable ally had just discovered . 
Already had his fair fame been tarnished by one horrid scene , and in circumstances fearfully resembling those under which he how found himself . 
A very different scene presented itself within the lines of the Anglo American army . 
As soon as the warning signal was given , it exhibited all the signs of a hurried and forced departure . 
Women and children ran from place to place , some bearing the scanty remnants of their baggage , and others searching in the ranks for those countenances they looked up to for protection . 
Munro appeared among his silent troops firm but dejected . 
It was evident that the unexpected blow had struck deep into his heart , though he struggled to sustain his misfortune with the port of a man . 
Duncan was touched at the quiet and impressive exhibition of his grief . 
He had discharged his own duty , and he now pressed to the side of the old man , to know in what particular he might serve him . 
My daughters , was the brief but expressive reply . 
Good heavens ! are not arrangements already made for their convenience ? To day I am only a soldier , Major Heyward , said the veteran . 
All that you see here , claim alike to be my children . 
Without losing one of those moments which had now become so precious , he flew toward the quarters of Munro , in quest of the sisters . 
They both , however , received the young man with undisguised pleasure the former , for a novelty , being the first to speak . 
The fort is lost , she said , with a melancholy smile though our good name , I trust , remains . 
But , dearest Miss Munro , it is time to think less of others , and to make some provision for yourself . 
Military usage pride that pride on which you so much value yourself , demands that your father and I should for a little while continue with the troops . 
Remember , our Alice is not gifted with all your firmness , and God only knows the terror she might endure . 
You may be right , Cora replied , smiling again , but far more sadly than before . 
Listen ! chance has already sent us a friend when he is most needed . 
Duncan did listen , and on the instant comprehended her meaning . 
There he found David , pouring out his pious feelings through the only medium in which he ever indulged . 
I will attend them , when I have completed my morning praise , to which nothing is now wanting but the doxology . 
Wilt thou bear a part , friend ? The meter is common , and the tune 'Southwell' . 
Heyward was fain to wait until the verse was ended when , seeing David relieving himself from the spectacles , and replacing the book , he continued . 
It will be your duty to see that none dare to approach the ladies with any rude intention , or to offer insult or taunt at the misfortune of their brave father . 
In this task you will be seconded by the domestics of their household . 
If not , I have that here which shall , returned David , exhibiting his book , with an air in which meekness and confidence were singularly blended . 
Gamut cheerfully assented , and together they sought the females . 
He then spoke gladly of his intention to rejoin them the moment he had led the advance a few miles toward the Hudson , and immediately took his leave . 
By this time the signal for departure had been given , and the head of the English column was in motion . 
At that moment an enormous cloud seemed to pass suddenly above their heads , and , looking upward , they discovered that they stood beneath the wide folds of the standard of France . 
Let us go , said Cora this is no longer a fit place for the children of an English officer . 
Alice clung to the arm of her sister , and together they left the parade , accompanied by the moving throng that surrounded them . 
As the confused and timid throng left the protecting mounds of the fort , and issued on the open plain , the whole scene was at once presented to their eyes . 
A few had straggled among the conquered columns , where they stalked in sullen discontent attentive , though , as yet , passive observers of the moving multitude . 
A truant provincial was paying the forfeit of his disobedience , by being plundered of those very effects which had caused him to desert his place in the ranks . 
The man was of powerful frame , and too avaricious to part with his goods without a struggle . 
Individuals from either party interfered the one side to prevent and the other to aid in the robbery . 
Voices grew loud and angry , and a hundred savages appeared , as it were , by magic , where a dozen only had been seen a minute before . 
It was then that Cora saw the form of Magua gliding among his countrymen , and speaking with his fatal and artful eloquence . 
The mass of women and children stopped , and hovered together like alarmed and fluttering birds . 
But the cupidity of the Indian was soon gratified , and the different bodies again moved slowly onward . 
The savages now fell back , and seemed content to let their enemies advance without further molestation . 
But , as the female crowd approached them , the gaudy colors of a shawl attracted the eyes of a wild and untutored Huron . 
He advanced to seize it without the least hesitation . 
The woman , more in terror than through love of the ornament , wrapped her child in the coveted article , and folded both more closely to her bosom . 
Abandoning everything to the greedy grasp of those around her , the mother darted , with distraction in her mien , to reclaim her child . 
The mother sank under the blow , and fell , grasping at her child , in death , with the same engrossing love that had caused her to cherish it when living . 
At that dangerous moment , Magua placed his hands to his mouth , and raised the fatal and appalling whoop . 
They who heard it listened with a curdling horror at the heart , little inferior to that dread which may be expected to attend the blasts of the final summons . 
More than two thousand raving savages broke from the forest at the signal , and threw themselves across the fatal plain with instinctive alacrity . 
We shall not dwell on the revolting horrors that succeeded . 
Death was everywhere , and in his most terrific and disgusting aspects . 
Resistance only served to inflame the murderers , who inflicted their furious blows long after their victims were beyond the power of their resentment . 
The trained bodies of the troops threw themselves quickly into solid masses , endeavoring to awe their assailants by the imposing appearance of a military front . 
The experiment in some measure succeeded , though far too many suffered their unloaded muskets to be torn from their hands , in the vain hope of appeasing the savages . 
In such a scene none had leisure to note the fleeting moments . 
that the sisters had stood riveted to one spot , horror stricken and nearly helpless . 
On every side arose shrieks , groans , exhortations and curses . 
At this moment , Alice caught a glimpse of the vast form of her father , moving rapidly across the plain , in the direction of the French army . 
He was , in truth , proceeding to Montcalm , fearless of every danger , to claim the tardy escort for which he had before conditioned . 
Fifty glittering axes and barbed spears were offered unheeded at his life , but the savages respected his rank and calmness , even in their fury . 
Fortunately , the vindictive Magua was searching for his victim in the very band the veteran had just quitted . 
Father father we are here ! shrieked Alice , as he passed , at no great distance , without appearing to heed them . 
Come to us , father , or we die ! The cry was repeated , and in terms and tones that might have melted a heart of stone , but it was unanswered . 
Munro shook his head in disappointment , and proceeded , bent on the high duty of his station . 
Let us up and fly . 
Go , said Cora , still gazing at her unconscious sister save thyself . 
To me thou canst not be of further use . 
David comprehended the unyielding character of her resolution , by the simple but expressive gesture that accompanied her words . 
Then raising his voice to its highest tone , he poured out a strain so powerful as to be heard even amid the din of that bloody field . 
Astonishment soon changed to admiration , and they passed on to other and less courageous victims , openly expressing their satisfaction at the firmness with which the white warrior sang his death song . 
Encouraged and deluded by his success , David exerted all his powers to extend what he believed so holy an influence . 
It was Magua , who uttered a yell of pleasure when he beheld his ancient prisoners again at his mercy . 
Come , he said , laying his soiled hands on the dress of Cora , the wigwam of the Huron is still open . 
Is it not better than this place ? Away ! cried Cora , veiling her eyes from his revolting aspect . 
Magua is a great chief ! returned the exulting savage , will the dark hair go to his tribe ? Never ! strike if thou wilt , and complete thy revenge . 
He hesitated a moment , and then catching the light and senseless form of Alice in his arms , the subtle Indian moved swiftly across the plain toward the woods . 
Stay lady stay , called Gamut , after the unconscious Cora . 
The holy charm is beginning to be felt , and soon shalt thou see this horrid tumult stilled . 
In this manner they traversed the plain , through the flying , the wounded and the dead . 
Laying Alice on one of the horses , he made a sign to Cora to mount the other . 
She took her seat , and held forth her arms for her sister , with an air of entreaty and love that even the Huron could not deny . 
Placing Alice , then , on the same animal with Cora , he seized the bridle , and commenced his route by plunging deeper into the forest . 
Here Magua suffered them to dismount and notwithstanding their own captivity , the curiosity which seems inseparable from horror , induced them to gaze at the sickening sight below . 
The cruel work was still unchecked . 
Nor was the sword of death stayed until cupidity got the mastery of revenge . 
CHAPTER Why , anything An honorable murderer , if you will For naught I did in hate , but all in honor . 
Deeply regretting this weakness on the part of a sister muse , we shall at once retire from her sacred precincts , within the proper limits of our own humble vocation . 
The third day from the capture of the fort was drawing to a close , but the business of the narrative must still detain the reader on the shores of the holy lake . 
When last seen , the environs of the works were filled with violence and uproar . 
They were now possessed by stillness and death . 
The blood stained conquerors had departed and their camp , which had so lately rung with the merry rejoicings of a victorious army , lay a silent and deserted city of huts . 
The fortress was a smoldering ruin charred rafters , fragments of exploded artillery , and rent mason work covering its earthen mounds in confused disorder . 
A frightful change had also occurred in the season . 
Still the clear fountain retained a portion of its charmed influence , but it reflected only the somber gloom that fell from the impending heavens . 
The fiercer element had cropped the verdure of the plain , which looked as though it were scathed by the consuming lightning . 
But , here and there , a dark green tuft rose in the midst of the desolation the earliest fruits of a soil that had been fattened with human blood . 
At first their progress was slow and guarded , as though they entered with reluctance amid the horrors of the post , or dreaded the renewal of its frightful incidents . 
Nor were those in the rear wanting in every caution and foresight known to forest warfare . 
The effects produced by the appalling sights that constantly arose in their path to the lake shore , were as different as the characters of the respective individuals who composed the party . 
His red associate , however , was superior to such a weakness . 
He passed the groups of dead with a steadiness of purpose , and an eye so calm , that nothing but long and inveterate practise could enable him to maintain . 
The sensations produced in the minds of even the white men were different , though uniformly sorrowful . 
The young man at his elbow shuddered , but seemed to suppress his feelings in tenderness to his companion . 
Of them all , the straggler who brought up the rear appeared alone to betray his real thoughts , without fear of observation or dread of consequences . 
The reader will perceive at once , in these respective characters , the Mohicans , and their white friend , the scout together with Munro and Heyward . 
When Uncas , who moved in front , had reached the center of the plain , he raised a cry that drew his companions in a body to the spot . 
The young warrior had halted over a group of females who lay in a cluster , a confused mass of dead . 
The father and the lover found instant relief in the search though each was condemned again to experience the misery of an uncertainty that was hardly less insupportable than the most revolting truth . 
They were standing , silent and thoughtful , around the melancholy pile , when the scout approached . 
Spurning the loathsome object with his foot , he turned from it with the same indifference he would have quitted a brute carcass . 
The scout comprehended the action , and very deliberately pursued his own way , continuing , however , his denunciations against the French commander in the same resentful strain . 
Uncas , come this way , lad , and let the ravens settle upon the Mingo . 
The movement , the exhibition , and the cry which again burst from the lips of the young Mohican , instantly drew the whole party about him . 
My child ! said Munro , speaking quickly and wildly give me my child ! Uncas will try , was the short and touching answer . 
Here are no dead , said Heyward the storm seems not to have passed this way . 
Uncas , you are right the dark hair has been here , and she has fled like a frightened fawn , to the wood none who could fly would remain to be murdered . 
Let us search for the marks she left for , to Indian eyes , I sometimes think a humming bird leaves his trail in the air . 
The young Mohican darted away at the suggestion , and the scout had hardly done speaking , before the former raised a cry of success from the margin of the forest . 
On reaching the spot , the anxious party perceived another portion of the veil fluttering on the lower branch of a beech . 
A step too soon may give us hours of trouble . 
We have them , though that much is beyond denial . 
Bless ye , bless ye , worthy man ! exclaimed Munro whither then , have they fled , and where are my babes ? The path they have taken depends on many chances . 
Better so than left to starve in the wilderness , returned the scout and they will leave a wider trail . 
At length he arose from his knees , satisfied with the result of the examination . 
One moccasin is no more like another than one book is like another though they who can read in one are seldom able to tell the marks of the other . 
Which is all ordered for the best , giving to every man his natural advantages . 
Let me get down to it , Uncas neither book nor moccasin is the worse for having two opinions , instead of one . 
The scout stooped to the task , and instantly added You are right , boy here is the patch we saw so often in the other chase . 
'Tis just the length and breadth , too ! look at it , Sagamore you measured the prints more than once , when we hunted the varmints from Glenn's to the health springs . 
And not Alice ? demanded Heyward . 
Of her we have not yet seen the signs , returned the scout , looking closely around at the trees , the bushes and the ground . 
What have we there ? Uncas , bring hither the thing you see dangling from yonder thorn bush . 
When the Indian had complied , the scout received the prize , and holding it on high , he laughed in his silent but heartfelt manner . 
'Tis the tooting we'pon of the singer ! now we shall have a trail a priest might travel , he said . 
Uncas , look for the marks of a shoe that is long enough to uphold six feet two of tottering human flesh . 
I begin to have some hopes of the fellow , since he has given up squalling to follow some better trade . 
At least he has been faithful to his trust , said Heyward . 
And Cora and Alice are not without a friend . 
Yes , said Hawkeye , dropping his rifle , and leaning on it with an air of visible contempt , he will do their singing . 
Well , boy , any signs of such a foundation ? The powers of the American mocking bird are generally known . 
Either of these last two birds is superior to the nightingale or the lark , though , in general , the American birds are less musical than those of Europe . 
Here is something like the footstep of one who has worn a shoe can it be that of our friend ? Touch the leaves lightly or you'll disconsart the formation . 
That ! that is the print of a foot , but 'tis the dark hair's and small it is , too , for one of such a noble height and grand appearance . 
The singer would cover it with his heel . 
Where ! let me look on the footsteps of my child , said Munro , shoving the bushes aside , and bending fondly over the nearly obliterated impression . 
Though the tread which had left the mark had been light and rapid , it was still plainly visible . 
A moment , at such a time , will appear an age to the captives . 
In that case we may have to journey by different paths for here she has not passed , light and little as her footsteps would be . 
Heyward drew back , all his ardor to proceed seeming to vanish on the instant . 
Move on , Uncas , and keep your eyes on the dried leaves . 
I will watch the bushes , while your father shall run with a low nose to the ground . 
Move on , friends the sun is getting behind the hills . 
Is there nothing that I can do ? demanded the anxious Heyward . 
Before they had proceeded many rods , the Indians stopped , and appeared to gaze at some signs on the earth with more than their usual keenness . 
Both father and son spoke quick and loud , now looking at the object of their mutual admiration , and now regarding each other with the most unequivocal pleasure . 
They have found the little foot ! exclaimed the scout , moving forward , without attending further to his own portion of the duty . 
Yes , here they have mounted . 
There the beasts have been bound to a sapling , in waiting and yonder runs the broad path away to the north , in full sweep for the Canadas . 
But still there are no signs of Alice , of the younger Miss Munro , said Duncan . 
Unless the shining bauble Uncas has just lifted from the ground should prove one . 
Pass it this way , lad , that we may look at it . 
Pshaw ! said the disappointed Hawkeye , ceasing to rake the leaves with the breech of his rifle 'tis a certain sign of age , when the sight begins to weaken . 
Lawrence , or perhaps , the Great Lakes themselves , are between us . 
So much the more reason why we should not delay our march , returned Heyward let us proceed . 
Young blood and hot blood , they say , are much the same thing . 
Heyward saw , by the manner of the scout , that altercation would be useless . 
Why , I am sure , if he forfeit , thou wilt not take his flesh what's that good for ? Shy . 
To bait fish withal if it will feed nothing else , it will feed my revenge . 
Merchant of Venice The shades of evening had come to increase the dreariness of the place , when the party entered the ruins of William Henry . 
A few fragments of rafters were reared against a blackened wall and when Uncas had covered them slightly with brush , the temporary accommodations were deemed sufficient . 
The young Indian point ed toward his rude hut when his labor was ended and Heyward , who understood the meaning of the silent gestures , gently urged Munro to enter . 
Leaving the bereaved old man alone with his sorrows , Duncan immediately returned into the open air , too much excited himself to seek the repose he had recommended to his veteran friend . 
The wind had fallen , and the waves were already rolling on the sandy beach beneath him , in a more regular and tempered succession . 
Here and there , a red and fiery star struggled through the drifting vapor , furnishing a lurid gleam of brightness to the dull aspect of the heavens . 
Of this scene , so chillingly in accordance with the past , Duncan stood for many minutes a rapt observer . 
He soon fancied that inexplicable sounds arose from the place , though so indistinct and stolen , as to render not only their nature but even their existence uncertain . 
Ashamed of his apprehensions , the young man turned toward the water , and strove to divert his attention to the mimic stars that dimly glimmered on its moving surface . 
Still , his too conscious ears performed their ungrateful duty , as if to warn him of some lurking danger . 
At length , a swift trampling seemed , quite audibly , to rush athwart the darkness . 
Unable any longer to quiet his uneasiness , Duncan spoke in a low voice to the scout , requesting him to ascend the mound to the place where he stood . 
Hawkeye threw his rifle across an arm and complied , but with an air so unmoved and calm , as to prove how much he counted on the security of their position . 
Listen ! said Duncan , when the other placed himself deliberately at his elbow there are suppressed noises on the plain which may show Montcalm has not yet entirely deserted his conquest . 
An Indian seldom sleeps in war , and plunder may keep a Huron here after his tribe has departed . 
It would be well to extinguish the fire , and have a watch listen ! you hear the noise I mean ! An Indian more rarely lurks about the graves . 
Speaking of spirits , major , are you of opinion that the heaven of a red skin and of us whites will be of one and the same ? No doubt no doubt . 
Ay , ay when food is scarce , and when food is plenty , a wolf grows bold , said the unmoved scout . 
There would be picking , too , among the skins of the devils , if there was light and time for the sport . 
But , concerning the life that is to come , major I have heard preachers say , in the settlements , that heaven was a place of rest . 
Now , men's minds differ as to their ideas of enjoyment . 
His vigilance , however , seemed exercised in vain for after a fruitless pause , he whispered to Duncan We must give a call to Uncas . 
The boy has Indian senses , and he may hear what is hid from us for , being a white skin , I will not deny my nature . 
The scout repeated the call , and in a few moments , Duncan saw the figure of Uncas stealing cautiously along the rampart , to the spot where they stood . 
Hawkeye explained his wishes in a very few words , which were spoken in the Delaware tongue . 
Then it was he discovered that the form of Uncas vanished , and that he beheld only the dark outline of an inequality in the embankment . 
Hist ! speak lower for we know not what ears are open , and the Mingoes are a quick witted breed . 
As for Uncas , he is out on the plain , and the Maquas , if any such are about us , will find their equal . 
You think that Montcalm has not called off all his Indians ? Let us give the alarm to our companions , that we may stand to our arms . 
Here are five of us , who are not unused to meet an enemy . 
Not a word to either , as you value your life . 
Look at the Sagamore , how like a grand Indian chief he sits by the fire . 
If there are any skulkers out in the darkness , they will never discover , by his countenance , that we suspect danger at hand . 
But they may discover him , and it will prove his death . 
His person can be too plainly seen by the light of that fire , and he will become the first and most certain victim . 
The scout applied his fingers to his mouth , and raised a low hissing sound , that caused Duncan at first to start aside , believing that he heard a serpent . 
With his sudden and , perhaps , involuntary movement , every appearance of surprise or alarm ended . 
His rifle lay untouched , and apparently unnoticed , within reach of his hand . 
The air was filled with sparks of fire , around that spot where the eyes of Heyward were still fastened , with admiration and wonder . 
A second look told him that Chingachgook had disappeared in the confusion . 
In the meantime , the scout had thrown forward his rifle , like one prepared for service , and awaited impatiently the moment when an enemy might rise to view . 
But with the solitary and fruitless attempt made on the life of Chingachgook , the attack appeared to have terminated . 
After an impatient and breathless pause , a plunge was heard in the water , and it was immediately followed by the report of another rifle . 
What can this mean ? demanded Duncan' we are watched , and , as it would seem , marked for destruction . 
After which he was content to reply , holding a single finger up to view , with the English monosyllable One . 
Well , let him let him . 
The varlet sent his lead within whistle of your ears , Sagamore . 
Just then Uncas glided into the circle , and seated himself at the fire , with the same appearance of indifference as was maintained by his father . 
Of these several moments Heyward was a deeply interested and wondering observer . 
It appeared to him as though the foresters had some secret means of intelligence , which had escaped the vigilance of his own faculties . 
What has become of our enemy , Uncas ? demanded Duncan we heard your rifle , and hoped you had not fired in vain . 
The young chief removed a fold of his hunting skirt , and quietly exposed the fatal tuft of hair , which he bore as the symbol of victory . 
Chingachgook laid his hand on the scalp , and considered it for a moment with deep attention . 
That would have been an abuse of our treaties , and unworthy of your character . 
When a man consort much with a people , continued Hawkeye , if they were honest and he no knave , love will grow up atwixt them . 
I regret to hear it for I had believed those natives who dwelt within our boundaries had found us too just and liberal , not to identify themselves fully with our quarrels . 
Why , I believe it is natur' to give a preference to one's own quarrels before those of strangers . 
Heyward withdrew to the rampart , too uneasy and too little accustomed to the warfare of the woods to remain at ease under the possibility of such insidious attacks . 
Not so , however , with the scout and the Mohicans . 
Not one of the three appeared in the least to doubt their perfect security , as was indicated by the preparations that were soon made to sit in council over their future proceedings . 
The confusion of nations , and even of tribes , to which Hawkeye alluded , existed at that period in the fullest force . 
were found fighting in the same ranks , while the latter sought the scalp of the Huron , though believed to be the root of his own stock . 
The Delawares were even divided among themselves . 
Placing himself at an angle of the works , where he might be a spectator of the scene without , he awaited the result with as much patience as he could summon . 
When he had inhaled enough of the fragrance of the soothing weed , he passed the instrument into the hands of the scout . 
In this manner the pipe had made its rounds three several times , amid the most profound silence , before either of the party opened his lips . 
Then the Sagamore , as the oldest and highest in rank , in a few calm and dignified words , proposed the subject for deliberation . 
He was answered by the scout and Chingachgook rejoined , when the other objected to his opinions . 
But the youthful Uncas continued a silent and respectful listener , until Hawkeye , in complaisance , demanded his opinion . 
Heyward gathered from the manners of the different speakers , that the father and son espoused one side of a disputed question , while the white man maintained the other . 
The contest gradually grew warmer , until it was quite evident the feelings of the speakers began to be somewhat enlisted in the debate . 
The language of the Mohicans was accompanied by gestures so direct and natural that Heyward had but little difficulty in following the thread of their argument . 
Elevating an arm , he pointed out the track of the sun , repeating the gesture for every day that was necessary to accomplish their objects . 
Then he delineated a long and painful path , amid rocks and water courses . 
The age and weakness of the slumbering and unconscious Munro were indicated by signs too palpable to be mistaken . 
Then came a representation of the light and graceful movements of a canoe , set in forcible contrast to the tottering steps of one enfeebled and tired . 
He concluded by pointing to the scalp of the Oneida , and apparently urging the necessity of their departing speedily , and in a manner that should leave no trail . 
The Mohicans listened gravely , and with countenances that reflected the sentiments of the speaker . 
Conviction gradually wrought its influence , and toward the close of Hawkeye's speech , his sentences were accompanied by the customary exclamation of commendation . 
The instant the matter in discussion was decided , the debate , and everything connected with it , except the result appeared to be forgotten . 
Hawkeye , without looking round to read his triumph in applauding eyes , very composedly stretched his tall frame before the dying embers , and closed his own organs in sleep . 
Left now in a measure to themselves , the Mohicans , whose time had been so much devoted to the interests of others , seized the moment to devote some attention to themselves . 
Casting off at once the grave and austere demeanor of an Indian chief , Chingachgook commenced speaking to his son in the soft and playful tones of affection . 
The compass of their voices , particularly that of the youth , was wonderful extending from the deepest bass to tones that were even feminine in softness . 
The eyes of the father followed the plastic and ingenious movements of the son with open delight , and he never failed to smile in reply to the other's contagious but low laughter . 
While under the influence of these gentle and natural feelings , no trace of ferocity was to be seen in the softened features of the Sagamore . 
His figured panoply of death looked more like a disguise assumed in mockery than a fierce annunciation of a desire to carry destruction in his footsteps . 
His companions complied , though to two of them the reasons of this extraordinary precaution were yet a mystery . 
When they were in the low cavity that surrounded the earthen fort on three sides , they found that passage nearly choked by the ruins . 
With care and patience , however , they succeeded in clambering after the scout , until they reached the sandy shore of the Horican . 
Shove in the canoe nigher to the land , Uncas this sand will take a stamp as easily as the butter of the Jarmans on the Mohawk . 
Softly , lad , softly it must not touch the beach , or the knaves will know by what road we have left the place . 
The young man observed the precaution and the scout , laying a board from the ruins to the canoe , made a sign for the two officers to enter . 
Have you forgotten the skulking reptile Uncas slew ? By no means . 
But he was said to be alone , and dead men give no cause for fear . 
But our presence the authority of Colonel Munro would prove sufficient protection against the anger of our allies , especially in a case where the wretch so well merited his fate . 
The marquis of Montcalm can only settle that error with his God , said the young man solemnly . 
Ay , ay , now there is reason in your words , for they are bottomed on religion and honesty . 
With foes in front , and foes in our rear , our journey is like to be one of danger . 
Just as the day dawned , they entered the narrows of the lake , and stole swiftly and cautiously among their numberless little islands . 
They , therefore , approached the passage with the customary silence of their guarded habits . 
The beauties of Lake George are well known to every American tourist . 
There are said to be some hundreds of islands in a sheet of water less than thirty miles long . 
The lake itself varies in breadth from one to three miles . 
Hugh ! exclaimed Uncas , nearly at the moment that the light tap his father had made on the side of the canoe notified them of the vicinity of danger . 
The Indian gravely raised his paddle , and pointed in the direction in which his own steady look was riveted . 
Duncan's eyes followed the motion . 
A few rods in their front lay another of the wooded islets , but it appeared as calm and peaceful as if its solitude had never been disturbed by the foot of man . 
I see nothing , he said , but land and water and a lovely scene it is . 
Hist ! interrupted the scout . 
Ay , Sagamore , there is always a reason for what you do . 
'Tis but a shade , and yet it is not natural . 
That a child could tell . 
Let us , then , push for the place , and relieve our doubts , said the impatient Duncan the party must be small that can lie on such a bit of land . 
Well , well , continued Hawkeye , making a hasty sign to repress his impatience I am much of your mind myself though I thought it becoming my experience to tell the whole . 
We must , then , make a push , and if the Indians or Frenchers are in the narrows , run the gauntlet through these toppling mountains . 
Is there reason in my words , Sagamore ? The Indian made no other answer than by dropping his paddle into the water , and urging forward the canoe . 
As he held the office of directing its course , his resolution was sufficiently indicated by the movement . 
There they are , by all the truth of signs , whispered the scout , two canoes and a smoke . 
The knaves haven't yet got their eyes out of the mist , or we should hear the accursed whoop . 
Together , friends ! we are leaving them , and are already nearly out of whistle of a bullet . 
In another instant several savages were seen rushing into canoes , which were soon dancing over the water in pursuit . 
Hold them there , Sagamore , said Hawkeye , looking coolly backward over this left shoulder , while he still plied his paddle keep them just there . 
Them Hurons have never a piece in their nation that will execute at this distance but 'killdeer' has a barrel on which a man may calculate . 
The scout having ascertained that the Mohicans were sufficient of themselves to maintain the requisite distance , deliberately laid aside his paddle , and raised the fatal rifle . 
It was too obvious now that their situation was imminently perilous to need the aid of language to confirm it . 
In the meantime they were reminded of the presence of those who pressed upon their rear , by wild and exulting shouts . 
The stirring scene awakened even Munro from his apathy . 
Let us make for the rocks on the main , he said , with the mien of a tired soldier , and give battle to the savages . 
Lay her more along the land , Sagamore we are doubling on the varlets , and perhaps they may try to strike our trail on the long calculation . 
It now became entirely a trial of speed . 
So rapid was the progress of the light vessels , that the lake curled in their front , in miniature waves , and their motion became undulating by its own velocity . 
The exertions of the fugitives were too severe to continue long , and the pursuers had the advantage of numbers . 
Duncan observed with uneasiness , that the scout began to look anxiously about him , as if searching for some further means of assisting their flight . 
Edge her a little more from the sun , Sagamore , said the stubborn woodsman I see the knaves are sparing a man to the rifle . 
A single broken bone might lose us our scalps . 
Edge more from the sun and we will put the island between us . 
The expedient was not without its use . 
The scout and his companions did not neglect this advantage , but the instant they were hid from observation by the bushes , they redoubled efforts that before had seemed prodigious . 
The two canoes came round the last low point , like two coursers at the top of their speed , the fugitives taking the lead . 
This change had brought them nigher to each other , however , while it altered their relative positions . 
The imps have put all their strength again at the paddles , and we are to struggle for our scalps with bits of flattened wood , instead of clouded barrels and true eyes . 
A long stroke , and together , friends . 
They are preparing for a shot , said Heyward and as we are in a line with them , it can scarcely fail . 
Get you , then , into the bottom of the canoe , returned the scout you and the colonel it will be so much taken from the size of the mark . 
Heyward smiled , as he answered It would be but an ill example for the highest in rank to dodge , while the warriors were under fire . 
Lord ! Lord ! That is now a white man's courage ! exclaimed the scout and like to many of his notions , not to be maintained by reason . 
A volley from the Hurons interrupted the discourse , and as the bullets whistled about them , Duncan saw the head of Uncas turned , looking back at himself and Munro . 
A ball soon struck the light and polished paddle from the hands of the chief , and drove it through the air , far in the advance . 
A shout arose from the Hurons , who seized the opportunity to fire another volley . 
The clamorous sounds of Le Gros Serpent ! La Longue Carabine ! Le Cerf Agile ! burst at once from the canoes behind , and seemed to give new zeal to the pursuers . 
The scout seized killdeer in his left hand , and elevating it about his head , he shook it in triumph at his enemies . 
The savages answered the insult with a yell , and immediately another volley succeeded . 
The bullets pattered along the lake , and one even pierced the bark of their little vessel . 
The Hurons soon fired again , and a bullet struck the blade of Hawkeye's paddle without injury . 
Now , major , if you will try to use this piece of flattened wood , I'll let 'killdeer' take a part in the conversation . 
Heyward seized the paddle , and applied himself to the work with an eagerness that supplied the place of skill , while Hawkeye was engaged in inspecting the priming of his rifle . 
The latter then took a swift aim and fired . 
The Huron in the bows of the leading canoe had risen with a similar object , and he now fell backward , suffering his gun to escape from his hands into the water . 
In an instant , however , he recovered his feet , though his gestures were wild and bewildered . 
At the same moment his companions suspended their efforts , and the chasing canoes clustered together , and became stationary . 
Chingachgook and Uncas profited by the interval to regain their wind , though Duncan continued to work with the most persevering industry . 
We forget our errand , returned the diligent Duncan . 
For God's sake let us profit by this advantage , and increase our distance from the enemy . 
Give me my children , said Munro , hoarsely trifle no longer with a father's agony , but restore me my babes . 
Long and habitual deference to the mandates of his superiors had taught the scout the virtue of obedience . 
The lake now began to expand , and their route lay along a wide reach , that was lined , as before , by high and ragged mountains . 
But the islands were few , and easily avoided . 
As the Hurons , to every appearance , had abandoned the pursuit , there was no apparent reason for this excess of caution . 
It was , however , maintained for hours , until they had reached a bay , nigh the northern termination of the lake . 
Here the canoe was driven upon the beach , and the whole party landed . 
Do you see it ? demanded the scout . 
Can it be a living object ? 'Tis a canoe of good birchen bark , and paddled by fierce and crafty Mingoes . 
These varlets pretend to be bent chiefly on their sun down meal , but the moment it is dark they will be on our trail , as true as hounds on the scent . 
We must throw them off , or our pursuit of Le Renard Subtil may be given up . 
God knows what the country would be , if the settlements should ever spread far from the two rivers . 
Both hunting and war would lose their beauty . 
Let us not delay a moment , without some good and obvious cause . 
I little like that smoke , which you may see worming up along the rock above the canoe , interrupted the abstracted scout . 
My life on it , other eyes than ours see it , and know its meaning . 
Well , words will not mend the matter , and it is time that we were doing . 
Hawkeye moved away from the lookout , and descended , musing profoundly , to the shore . 
He communicated the result of his observations to his companions , in Delaware , and a short and earnest consultation succeeded . 
When it terminated , the three instantly set about executing their new resolutions . 
The canoe was lifted from the water , and borne on the shoulders of the party , they proceeded into the wood , making as broad and obvious a trail as possible . 
They soon reached the water course , which they crossed , and , continuing onward , until they came to an extensive and naked rock . 
At this point , where their footsteps might be expected to be no longer visible , they retraced their route to the brook , walking backward , with the utmost care . 
They now followed the bed of the little stream to the lake , into which they immediately launched their canoe again . 
A low point concealed them from the headland , and the margin of the lake was fringed for some distance with dense and overhanging bushes . 
Under the cover of these natural advantages , they toiled their way , with patient industry , until the scout pronounced that he believed it would be safe once more to land . 
The halt continued until evening rendered objects indistinct and uncertain to the eye . 
Then they resumed their route , and , favored by the darkness , pushed silently and vigorously toward the western shore . 
The boat was again lifted and borne into the woods , where it was carefully concealed under a pile of brush . 
The adventurers assumed their arms and packs , and the scout announced to Munro and Heyward that he and the Indians were at last in readiness to proceed . 
CHAPTER If you find a man there , he shall die a flea's death . 
It was the sterile and rugged district which separates the tributaries of Champlain from those of the Hudson , the Mohawk , and the St . 
Imitating the example , and emulating the confidence of their more experienced associates , Munro and Duncan slept without fear , if now without uneasiness . 
The dews were suffered to exhale , and the sun had dispersed the mists , and was shedding a strong and clear light in the forest , when the travelers resumed their journey . 
After proceeding a few miles , the progress of Hawkeye , who led the advance , became more deliberate and watchful . 
He often stopped to examine the trees nor did he cross a rivulet without attentively considering the quantity , the velocity , and the color of its waters . 
Distrusting his own judgment , his appeals to the opinion of Chingachgook were frequent and earnest . 
During one of these conferences Heyward observed that Uncas stood a patient and silent , though , as he imagined , an interested listener . 
At last the scout spoke in English , and at once explained the embarrassment of their situation . 
Heaven protect us from such an error ! exclaimed Duncan . 
Let us retrace our steps , and examine as we go , with keener eyes . 
Has Uncas no counsel to offer in such a strait ? The young Mohican cast a glance at his father , but , maintaining his quiet and reserved mien , he continued silent . 
Chingachgook had caught the look , and motioning with his hand , he bade him speak . 
The moment this permission was accorded , the countenance of Uncas changed from its grave composure to a gleam of intelligence and joy . 
The eyes of the whole party followed the unexpected movement , and read their success in the air of triumph that the youth assumed . 
'Tis the trail ! exclaimed the scout , advancing to the spot the lad is quick of sight and keen of wit for his years . 
'Tis extraordinary that he should have withheld his knowledge so long , muttered Duncan , at his elbow . 
It would have been more wonderful had he spoken without a bidding . 
See ! said Uncas , pointing north and south , at the evident marks of the broad trail on either side of him , the dark hair has gone toward the forest . 
Ay , here are both your waddling beasts this Huron travels like a white general . 
Their advance was rapid and made with as much confidence as a traveler would proceed along a wide highway . 
Their progress was much facilitated by the certainty that Magua had found it necessary to journey through the valleys a circumstance which rendered the general direction of the route sure . 
Nor had the Huron entirely neglected the arts uniformly practised by the natives when retiring in front of an enemy . 
By the middle of the afternoon they had passed the Scaroons , and were following the route of the declining sun . 
After descending an eminence to a low bottom , through which a swift stream glided , they suddenly came to a place where the party of Le Renard had made a halt . 
Extinguished brands were lying around a spring , the offals of a deer were scattered about the place , and the trees bore evident marks of having been browsed by the horses . 
At a little distance , Heyward discovered , and contemplated with tender emotion , the small bower under which he was fain to believe that Cora and Alice had reposed . 
But while the earth was trodden , and the footsteps of both men and beasts were so plainly visible around the place , the trail appeared to have suddenly ended . 
It was easy to follow the tracks of the Narragansetts , but they seemed only to have wandered without guides , or any other object than the pursuit of food . 
At length Uncas , who , with his father , had endeavored to trace the route of the horses , came upon a sign of their presence that was quite recent . 
That our march is come to a quick end , and that we are in an enemy's country , returned the scout . 
No , no I have heard that the French Indians had come into these hills to hunt the moose , and we are getting within scent of their camp . 
It is true that the horses are here , but the Hurons are gone let us , then , hunt for the path by which they parted . 
Hawkeye and the Mohicans now applied themselves to their task in good earnest . 
A circle of a few hundred feet in circumference was drawn , and each of the party took a segment for his portion . 
The examination , however , resulted in no discovery . 
The impressions of footsteps were numerous , but they all appeared like those of men who had wandered about the spot , without any design to quit it . 
Such cunning is not without its deviltry , exclaimed Hawkeye , when he met the disappointed looks of his assistants . 
We must get down to it , Sagamore , beginning at the spring , and going over the ground by inches . 
The Huron shall never brag in his tribe that he has a foot which leaves no print . 
Setting the example himself , the scout engaged in the scrutiny with renewed zeal . 
Not a leaf was left unturned . 
Still no discovery was made . 
So soon as its narrow bed below the dam was dry , he stooped over it with keen and curious eyes . 
A cry of exultation immediately announced the success of the young warrior . 
The whole party crowded to the spot where Uncas pointed out the impression of a moccasin in the moist alluvion . 
You will find a beautiful print of it just opposite yon rock , agin the hillside . 
While the youth was engaged in this commission , the scout and Chingachgook were attentively considering the impressions . 
The measurements agreed , and the former unhesitatingly pronounced that the footstep was that of David , who had once more been made to exchange his shoes for moccasins . 
My life on it , we see their pretty little feet again , before many rods go by . 
The whole party now proceeded , following the course of the rill , keeping anxious eyes on the regular impressions . 
The water soon flowed into its bed again , but watching the ground on either side , the foresters pursued their way content with knowing that the trail lay beneath . 
More than half a mile was passed , before the rill rippled close around the base of an extensive and dry rock . 
Here they paused to make sure that the Hurons had not quitted the water . 
It was fortunate they did so . 
For the quick and active Uncas soon found the impression of a foot on a bunch of moss , where it would seem an Indian had inadvertently trodden . 
Pursuing the direction given by this discovery , he entered the neighboring thicket , and struck the trail , as fresh and obvious as it had been before they reached the spring . 
Another shout announced the good fortune of the youth to his companions , and at once terminated the search . 
Ay , it has been planned with Indian judgment , said the scout , when the party was assembled around the place , and would have blinded white eyes . 
Shall we proceed ? demanded Heyward . 
Softly , softly , we know our path but it is good to examine the formation of things . 
This is my schooling , major and if one neglects the book , there is little chance of learning from the open land of Providence . 
All is plain but one thing , which is the manner that the knave contrived to get the gentle ones along the blind trail . 
Even a Huron would be too proud to let their tender feet touch the water . 
'Tis explained ! cried the delighted Hawkeye . 
Here we have three pair of moccasins , and two of little feet . 
It is amazing that any mortal beings can journey on limbs so small ! Pass me the thong of buckskin , Uncas , and let me take the length of this foot . 
By the Lord , it is no longer than a child's and yet the maidens are tall and comely . 
That Providence is partial in its gifts , for its own wise reasons , the best and most contented of us must allow . 
Of that there is little cause of fear , returned the scout , slowly shaking his head this is a firm and straight , though a light step , and not over long . 
See , the heel has hardly touched the ground and there the dark hair has made a little jump , from root to root . 
No , no my knowledge for it , neither of them was nigh fainting , hereaway . 
Now , the singer was beginning to be footsore and leg weary , as is plain by his trail . 
There , you see , he slipped here he has traveled wide and tottered and there again it looks as though he journeyed on snowshoes . 
Ay , ay , a man who uses his throat altogether , can hardly give his legs a proper training . 
Their route now lay along the bottom which has already been mentioned . 
As the Hurons had made no further efforts to conceal their footsteps , the progress of the pursuers was no longer delayed by uncertainty . 
He soon stopped again , and waited for the whole party to come up . 
I scent the Hurons , he said , speaking to the Mohicans yonder is open sky , through the treetops , and we are getting too nigh their encampment . 
Sagamore , you will take the hillside , to the right Uncas will bend along the brook to the left , while I will try the trail . 
If anything should happen , the call will be three croaks of a crow . 
I saw one of the birds fanning himself in the air , just beyond the dead oak another sign that we are approaching an encampment . 
The Indians departed their several ways without reply , while Hawkeye cautiously proceeded with the two gentlemen . 
Heyward soon pressed to the side of their guide , eager to catch an early glimpse of those enemies he had pursued with so much toil and anxiety . 
Duncan obeyed , and soon found himself in a situation to command a view which he found as extraordinary as it was novel . 
The trees of many acres had been felled , and the glow of a mild summer's evening had fallen on the clearing , in beautiful contrast to the gray light of the forest . 
A short distance from the place where Duncan stood , the stream had seemingly expanded into a little lake , covering most of the low land , from mountain to mountain . 
The water fell out of this wide basin , in a cataract so regular and gentle , that it appeared rather to be the work of human hands than fashioned by nature . 
A hundred earthen dwellings stood on the margin of the lake , and even in its waters , as though the latter had overflowed its usual banks . 
It appeared , however , to be deserted . 
Alarmed at these suspicious and inexplicable movements , he was about to attempt the signal of the crows , when the rustling of leaves at hand drew his eyes in another direction . 
The young man started , and recoiled a few paces instinctively , when he found himself within a hundred yards of a stranger Indian . 
Recovering his recollection on the instant , instead of sounding an alarm , which might prove fatal to himself , he remained stationary , an attentive observer of the other's motions . 
An instant of calm observation served to assure Duncan that he was undiscovered . 
The native , like himself , seemed occupied in considering the low dwellings of the village , and the stolen movements of its inhabitants . 
It was impossible to discover the expression of his features through the grotesque mask of paint under which they were concealed , though Duncan fancied it was rather melancholy than savage . 
His head was shaved , as usual , with the exception of the crown , from whose tuft three or four faded feathers from a hawk's wing were loosely dangling . 
His legs were , however , covered with a pair of good deer skin moccasins . 
Altogether , the appearance of the individual was forlorn and miserable . 
Duncan was still curiously observing the person of his neighbor when the scout stole silently and cautiously to his side . 
You see we have reached their settlement or encampment , whispered the young man and here is one of the savages himself , in a very embarrassing position for our further movements . 
Hawkeye started , and dropped his rifle , when , directed by the finger of his companion , the stranger came under his view . 
Then lowering the dangerous muzzle he stretched forward his long neck , as if to assist a scrutiny that was already intensely keen . 
The imp is not a Huron , he said , nor of any of the Canada tribes and yet you see , by his clothes , the knave has been plundering a white . 
Ay , Montcalm has raked the woods for his inroad , and a whooping , murdering set of varlets has he gathered together . 
Can you see where he has put his rifle or his bow ? He appears to have no arms nor does he seem to be viciously inclined . 
Unless he communicate the alarm to his fellows , who , as you see , are dodging about the water , we have but little to fear from him . 
The scout turned to Heyward , and regarded him a moment with unconcealed amazement . 
Then opening wide his mouth , he indulged in unrestrained and heartfelt laughter , though in that silent and peculiar manner which danger had so long taught him to practise . 
Do you keep him under your rifle while I creep in behind , through the bush , and take him alive . 
In the next moment he was concealed by the leaves . 
Duncan waited several minutes in feverish impatience , before he caught another glimpse of the scout . 
Then he reappeared , creeping along the earth , from which his dress was hardly distinguishable , directly in the rear of his intended captive . 
Having reached within a few yards of the latter , he arose to his feet , silently and slowly . 
Grasping his rifle his looks were again bent on the Indian near him . 
Instead of taking the alarm , the unconscious savage stretched forward his neck , as if he also watched the movements about the gloomy lake , with a sort of silly curiosity . 
In the meantime , the uplifted hand of Hawkeye was above him . 
But , without any apparent reason , it was withdrawn , and its owner indulged in another long , though still silent , fit of merriment . 
It would seem that the Being that gave them power to improve His gifts so well , would not deny them voices to proclaim His praise . 
Abibl we all met ? Qui . 
Pat pat and here's a marvelous convenient place for our rehearsal . 
Midsummer Night's Dream The reader may better imagine , that we describe the surprise of Heyward . 
The merriment of Hawkeye was not easily appeased . 
You were about opening your throat practisings among the beavers , were ye ? he said . 
But we see that you are safe now tell us what has become of the maidens . 
They are captives to the heathen , said David and , though greatly troubled in spirit , enjoying comfort and safety in the body . 
Both ! demanded the breathless Heyward . 
I have tried him sleeping and waking , but neither sounds nor language seem to touch his soul . 
Where is the knave ? bluntly interrupted the scout . 
He hunts the moose to day , with his young men and tomorrow , as I hear , they pass further into the forests , and nigher to the borders of Canada . 
Alice , my gentle Alice ! murmured Heyward she has lost the consolation of her sister's presence ! Even so . 
But so far as praise and thanksgiving in psalmody can temper the spirit in affliction , she has not suffered . 
The scout laughed , and , tapping his own forehead significantly , he perhaps explained the singular indulgence more satisfactorily when he said The Indians never harm a non composser . 
Though the figurative language of David was not very intelligible , the sincere and steady expression of his eye , and the glow of his honest countenance , were not easily mistaken . 
Uncas pressed closer to his side , and regarded the speaker with a look of commendation , while his father expressed his satisfaction by the ordinary pithy exclamation of approbation . 
Here , friend I did intend to kindle a fire with this tooting whistle of thine but , as you value the thing , take it , and blow your best on it . 
Gamut received his pitch pipe with as strong an expression of pleasure as he believed compatible with the grave functions he exercised . 
Nor did the scout fail to throw in a pertinent inquiry , whenever a fitting occasion presented . 
The narrative of David was simple , and the facts but few . 
As the subtle Huron was familiar with the paths , and well knew there was no immediate danger of pursuit , their progress had been moderate , and far from fatiguing . 
At night , the utmost care had been taken of the captives , both to prevent injury from the damps of the woods and to guard against an escape . 
On their arrival at the encampment of his people , Magua , in obedience to a policy seldom departed from , separated his prisoners . 
The time may come when you will not consider the knife of a savage such a despicable vanity , returned the scout , with a strong expression of contempt for the other's dullness . 
Of totem , I know not the meaning but if it appertaineth in any wise to the art of Indian music , it need not be inquired after at their hands . 
They never join their voices in praise , and it would seem that they are among the profanest of the idolatrous . 
Therein you belie the natur' of an Indian . 
Even the Mingo adores but the true and loving God . 
'Tis wicked fabrication of the whites , and I say it to the shame of my color that would make the warrior bow down before images of his own creation . 
Was it a sarpent ? quickly demanded the scout . 
It was in the likeness of an abject and creeping tortoise . 
Hugh ! exclaimed both the attentive Mohicans in a breath while the scout shook his head with the air of one who had made an important but by no means a pleasing discovery . 
Then the father spoke , in the language of the Delawares , and with a calmness and dignity that instantly arrested the attention even of those to whom his words were unintelligible . 
His gestures were impressive , and at times energetic . 
Duncan's eyes followed the movement , and he perceived that the animal just mentioned was beautifully , though faintly , worked in blue tint , on the swarthy breast of the chief . 
It is , altogether , a dangerous path we move in for a friend whose face is turned from you often bears a bloodier mind than the enemy who seeks your scalp . 
But it has ended in turning the tomahawk of brother against brother , and brought the Mingo and the Delaware to travel in the same path . 
The impatient Duncan now made several hasty and desperate propositions to attempt the release of the sisters . 
Munro seemed to shake off his apathy , and listened to the wild schemes of the young man with a deference that his gray hairs and reverend years should have denied . 
He speaks of the wish ton wish , said the scout well , since you like his whistle , it shall be your signal . 
You ! exclaimed the astonished Hawkeye are you tired of seeing the sun rise and set ? David is a living proof that the Hurons can be merciful . 
Ay , but David can use his throat , as no man in his senses would pervart the gift . 
I too can play the madman , the fool , the hero in short , any or everything to rescue her I love . 
Name your objections no longer I am resolved . 
Hawkeye regarded the young man a moment in speechless amazement . 
Listen , interrupted Duncan you have heard from this faithful follower of the captives , that the Indians are of two tribes , if not of different nations . 
It becomes my youth and rank to attempt the latter adventure . 
While you , therefore , are negotiating with your friends for the release of one of the sisters , I will effect that of the other , or die . 
The awakened spirit of the young soldier gleamed in his eyes , and his form became imposing under its influence . 
Hawkeye , though too much accustomed to Indian artifices not to foresee the danger of the experiment , knew not well how to combat this sudden resolution . 
Instead of continuing to oppose the scheme of Duncan , his humor suddenly altered , and he lent himself to its execution . 
Come , he said , with a good humored smile the buck that will take to the water must be headed , and not followed . 
The Sagamore can use them , too . 
Seat yourself on the log and my life on it , he can soon make a natural fool of you , and that well to your liking . 
Duncan complied and the Mohican , who had been an attentive listener to the discourse , readily undertook the office . 
In short , he entirely sacrificed every appearance of the warrior to the masquerade of a buffoon . 
But believe the warning of a man who has reason to know all he says to be true . 
God bless you ! if the Hurons master your scalp , rely on the promise of one who has two stout warriors to back him . 
They shall pay for their victory , with a life for every hair it holds . 
The route taken by Duncan and David lay directly across the clearing of the beavers , and along the margin of their pond . 
Then came the glowing image of Alice her distress her actual danger and all the peril of his situation was forgotten . 
Cheering David , he moved on with the light and vigorous step of youth and enterprise . 
He profited by the halt , to gather such information as might be obtained from his short and hasty glances . 
They were arranged without any order , and seemed to be constructed with very little attention to neatness or beauty . 
David , observing that his companion lingered , pursued the direction of his gaze , and in some measure recalled the recollection of Heyward , by speaking . 
The tribes are fonder of the chase than of the arts of men of labor , returned the unconscious Duncan , still gazing at the objects of his wonder . 
It is rather joy than labor to the spirit , to lift up the voice in praise but sadly do these boys abuse their gifts . 
Rarely have I found any of their age , on whom nature has so freely bestowed the elements of psalmody and surely , surely , there are none who neglect them more . 
Ah ! the wholesome restraint of discipline is but little known among this self abandoned people . 
Without removing the safeguards form his ears , the master of song complied , and together they pursued their way toward what David was sometimes wont to call the tents of the Philistines . 
When Duncan and David , therefore , found themselves in the center of the children , who played the antics already mentioned , it was without the least previous intimation of their approach . 
It was , however , too late to appear to hesitate . 
David , in some measure familiarized to the scene , led the way with a steadiness that no slight obstacle was likely to disconcert , into this very building . 
Imitating the example of the deliberate Gamut , he drew a bundle of fragrant brush from beneath a pile that filled the corner of the hut , and seated himself in silence . 
A flaring torch was burning in the place , and set its red glare from face to face and figure to figure , as it waved in the currents of air . 
Duncan profited by its light to read the probable character of his reception , in the countenances of his hosts . 
But his ingenuity availed him little , against the cold artifices of the people he had encountered . 
The men in the shadow were less reserved . 
The latter shook his head , and made a gesture indicative of his inability to reply . 
Though more than one had turned , as if to catch the meaning of his words , they remained unanswered . 
Duncan , who knew that silence was a virtue among his hosts , gladly had recourse to the custom , in order to arrange his ideas . 
Our Canada father does not think it . 
Instead of looking forward to reward his Indians , his eyes are turned backward . 
He sees the dead Yengeese , but no Huron . 
What can this mean ? A great chief , like him , has more thoughts than tongues . 
He looks to see that no enemies are on his trail . 
The canoe of a dead warrior will not float on the Horican , returned the savage , gloomily . 
His ears are open to the Delawares , who are not our friends , and they fill them with lies . 
He was , however , relieved again by the former speaker . 
Do the cunning men of the Canadas paint their skins ? the Huron coldly continued we have heard them boast that their faces were pale . 
When an Indian chief comes among his white fathers , returned Duncan , with great steadiness , he lays aside his buffalo robe , to carry the shirt that is offered him . 
My brothers have given me paint and I wear it . 
A low murmur of applause announced that the compliment of the tribe was favorably received . 
The elderly chief made a gesture of commendation , which was answered by most of his companions , who each threw forth a hand and uttered a brief exclamation of pleasure . 
The sudden and terrible interruption caused Duncan to start from his seat , unconscious of everything but the effect produced by so frightful a cry . 
Though astounded , at first , by the uproar , Heyward was soon enabled to find its solution by the scene that followed . 
There yet lingered sufficient light in the heavens to exhibit those bright openings among the tree tops , where different paths left the clearing to enter the depths of the wilderness . 
Beneath one of them , a line of warriors issued from the woods , and advanced slowly toward the dwellings . 
One in front bore a short pole , on which , as it afterwards appeared , were suspended several human scalps . 
When at the distance of a few hundred feet from the lodges the newly arrived warriors halted . 
Their plaintive and terrific cry , which was intended to represent equally the wailings of the dead and the triumph to the victors , had entirely ceased . 
One of their number now called aloud , in words that were far from appalling , though not more intelligible to those for whose ears they were intended , than their expressive yells . 
It would be difficult to convey a suitable idea of the savage ecstasy with which the news thus imparted was received . 
The whole encampment , in a moment , became a scene of the most violent bustle and commotion . 
The warriors drew their knives , and flourishing them , they arranged themselves in two lines , forming a lane that extended from the war party to the lodges . 
Large piles of brush lay scattered about the clearing , and a wary and aged squaw was occupied in firing as many as might serve to light the coming exhibition . 
As the flame arose , its power exceeded that of the parting day , and assisted to render objects at the same time more distinct and more hideous . 
The whole scene formed a striking picture , whose frame was composed of the dark and tall border of pines . 
The warriors just arrived were the most distant figures . 
A little in advance stood two men , who were apparently selected from the rest , as the principal actors in what was to follow . 
The light was not strong enough to render their features distinct , though it was quite evident that they were governed by very different emotions . 
While one stood erect and firm , prepared to meet his fate like a hero , the other bowed his head , as if palsied by terror or stricken with shame . 
The high spirited Duncan felt a powerful impulse of admiration and pity toward the former , though no opportunity could offer to exhibit his generous emotions . 
Insensibly the young man drew nigher to the swarthy lines of the Hurons , and scarcely breathed , so intense became his interest in the spectacle . 
Just then the signal yell was given , and the momentary quiet which had preceded it was broken by a burst of cries , that far exceeded any before heard . 
The more abject of the two victims continued motionless but the other bounded from the place at the cry , with the activity and swiftness of a deer . 
The artifice was answered by a hundred voices raised in imprecations and the whole of the excited multitude broke from their order , and spread themselves about the place in wild confusion . 
It will easily be understood that , amid such a concourse of vindictive enemies , no breathing time was allowed the fugitive . 
Here , too , he was met and turned by a few of the older and more subtle of the Hurons . 
Once more he tried the throng , as if seeking safety in its blindness , and then several moments succeeded , during which Duncan believed the active and courageous young stranger was lost . 
Nothing could be distinguished but a dark mass of human forms tossed and involved in inexplicable confusion . 
Arms , gleaming knives , and formidable clubs , appeared above them , but the blows were evidently given at random . 
The awful effect was heightened by the piercing shrieks of the women and the fierce yells of the warriors . 
Suddenly the multitude rolled backward , and approached the spot where he himself stood . 
The heavy body in the rear pressed upon the women and children in front , and bore them to the earth . 
The stranger reappeared in the confusion . 
Human power could not , however , much longer endure so severe a trial . 
Of this the captive seemed conscious . 
Profiting by the momentary opening , he darted from among the warriors , and made a desperate , and what seemed to Duncan a final effort to gain the wood . 
As if aware that no danger was to be apprehended from the young soldier , the fugitive nearly brushed his person in his flight . 
A tall and powerful Huron , who had husbanded his forces , pressed close upon his heels , and with an uplifted arm menaced a fatal blow . 
Duncan thrust forth a foot , and the shock precipitated the eager savage headlong , many feet in advance of his intended victim . 
Apprehensive that the part he had taken in the escape might prove fatal to himself , Duncan left the place without delay . 
He followed the crowd , which drew nigh the lodges , gloomy and sullen , like any other multitude that had been disappointed in an execution . 
Curiosity , or perhaps a better feeling , induced him to approach the stranger . 
His person was now protected by immemorial and sacred usage , until the tribe in council had deliberated and determined on his fate . 
It was not difficult , however , to foretell the result , if any presage could be drawn from the feelings of those who crowded the place . 
There was no term of abuse known to the Huron vocabulary that the disappointed women did not lavishly expend on the successful stranger . 
To all this the captive made no reply but was content to preserve an attitude in which dignity was singularly blended with disdain . 
Exasperated as much by his composure as by his good fortune , their words became unintelligible , and were succeeded by shrill , piercing yells . 
The squalid and withered person of this hag might well have obtained for her the character of possessing more than human cunning . 
Your squaws are the mothers of deer but if a bear , or a wildcat , or a serpent were born among you , ye would flee . 
The Huron girls shall make you petticoats , and we will find you a husband . 
A burst of savage laughter succeeded this attack , during which the soft and musical merriment of the younger females strangely chimed with the cracked voice of their older and more malignant companion . 
But the stranger was superior to all their efforts . 
Then , indeed , the captive turned his face toward the light , and looked down on the stripling with an expression that was superior to contempt . 
At the next moment he resumed his quiet and reclining attitude against the post . 
But the change of posture had permitted Duncan to exchange glances with the firm and piercing eyes of Uncas . 
There was not , however , any instant cause for such an apprehension . 
Just then a warrior forced his way into the exasperated crowd . 
Motioning the women and children aside with a stern gesture , he took Uncas by the arm , and led him toward the door of the council lodge . 
Thither all the chiefs , and most of the distinguished warriors , followed among whom the anxious Heyward found means to enter without attracting any dangerous attention to himself . 
A few minutes were consumed in disposing of those present in a manner suitable to their rank and influence in the tribe . 
In the very center of the lodge , immediately under an opening that admitted the twinkling light of one or two stars , stood Uncas , calm , elevated , and collected . 
Delaware , he said , though one of a nation of women , you have proved yourself a man . 
I would give you food but he who eats with a Huron should become his friend . 
Rest in peace till the morning sun , when our last words shall be spoken . 
Has a Huron no ears ? scornfully exclaimed Uncas twice , since he has been your prisoner , has the Delaware heard a gun that he knows . 
Your young men will never come back ! A short and sullen pause succeeded this bold assertion . 
The cunning beaver may be caught . 
As Uncas thus replied , he pointed with his finger toward the solitary Huron , but without deigning to bestow any other notice on so unworthy an object . 
The words of the answer and the air of the speaker produced a strong sensation among his auditors . 
Every eye rolled sullenly toward the individual indicated by the simple gesture , and a low , threatening murmur passed through the crowd . 
In the meantime , the more aged chiefs , in the center , communed with each other in short and broken sentences . 
Not a word was uttered that did not convey the meaning of the speaker , in the simplest and most energetic form . 
Again , a long and deeply solemn pause took place . 
It was known , by all present , to be the brave precursor of a weighty and important judgment . 
The silence was finally broken by the aged warrior so often named . 
He arose from the earth , and moving past the immovable form of Uncas , placed himself in a dignified attitude before the offender . 
Though her presence was altogether an intrusion , it was unheeded . 
Approaching Uncas , she held the blazing brand in such a manner as to cast its red glare on his person , and to expose the slightest emotion of his countenance . 
Satisfied with her examination , she left him , with a slight expression of pleasure , and proceeded to practise the same trying experiment on her delinquent countryman . 
The young Huron was in his war paint , and very little of a finely molded form was concealed by his attire . 
The light rendered every limb and joint discernible , and Duncan turned away in horror when he saw they were writhing in irrepressible agony . 
The woman was commencing a low and plaintive howl at the sad and shameful spectacle , when the chief put forth his hand and gently pushed her aside . 
Your tongue is loud in the village , but in battle it is still . 
None of my young men strike the tomahawk deeper into the war post none of them so lightly on the Yengeese . 
The enemy know the shape of your back , but they have never seen the color of your eyes . 
Three times have they called on you to come , and as often did you forget to answer . 
Your name will never be mentioned again in your tribe it is already forgotten . 
As the chief slowly uttered these words , pausing impressively between each sentence , the culprit raised his face , in deference to the other's rank and years . 
Shame , horror , and pride struggled in its lineaments . 
His eye , which was contracted with inward anguish , gleamed on the persons of those whose breath was his fame and the latter emotion for an instant predominated . 
He arose to his feet , and baring his bosom , looked steadily on the keen , glittering knife , that was already upheld by his inexorable judge . 
The squaw gave a loud and plaintive yell , dashed the torch to the earth , and buried everything in darkness . 
CHAPTER Thus spoke the sage the kings without delay Dissolve the council , and their chief obey . 
Pope's Iliad A single moment served to convince the youth that he was mistaken . 
A hand was laid , with a powerful pressure , on his arm , and the low voice of Uncas muttered in his ear The Hurons are dogs . 
The sight of a coward's blood can never make a warrior tremble . 
The 'Gray Head' and the Sagamore are safe , and the rifle of Hawkeye is not asleep . 
Go Uncas and the 'Open Hand' are now strangers . 
Slowly and reluctantly yielding to the necessity , he quitted the place , and mingled with the throng that hovered nigh . 
A knot of warriors soon entered the place again , and reissuing , they bore the senseless remains into the adjacent woods . 
After this termination of the scene , Duncan wandered among the lodges , unquestioned and unnoticed , endeavoring to find some trace of her in whose behalf he incurred the risk he ran . 
In the present temper of the tribe it would have been easy to have fled and rejoined his companions , had such a wish crossed his mind . 
But , in addition to the never ceasing anxiety on account of Alice , a fresher though feebler interest in the fate of Uncas assisted to chain him to the spot . 
He continued , therefore , to stray from hut to hut , looking into each only to encounter additional disappointment , until he had made the entire circuit of the village . 
On reaching the building , which had proved alike the seat of judgment and the place of execution , the young man found that the excitement had already subsided . 
The warriors had reassembled , and were now calmly smoking , while they conversed gravely on the chief incidents of their recent expedition to the head of the Horican . 
Though the return of Duncan was likely to remind them of his character , and the suspicious circumstances of his visit , it produced no visible sensation . 
Without seeming to hesitate , he walked into the lodge , and took his seat with a gravity that accorded admirably with the deportment of his hosts . 
A hasty but searching glance sufficed to tell him that , though Uncas still remained where he had left him , David had not reappeared . 
Heyward had too recently witnessed a frightful instance of the prompt punishments of the people into whose hands he had fallen to hazard an exposure by any officious boldness . 
He would greatly have preferred silence and meditation to speech , when a discovery of his real condition might prove so instantly fatal . 
Unfortunately for this prudent resolution , his entertainers appeared otherwise disposed . 
An evil spirit lives in the wife of one of my young men . 
Can the cunning stranger frighten him away ? Heyward possessed some knowledge of the mummery practised among the Indians , in the cases of such supposed visitations . 
He saw , at a glance , that the circumstance might possibly be improved to further his own ends . 
It would , therefore , have been difficult , just then to have uttered a proposal that would have given him more satisfaction . 
My brother is a great medicine , said the cunning savage he will try ? A gesture of assent was the answer . 
The Huron was content with the assurance , and , resuming his pipe , he awaited the proper moment to move . 
The latter cast an impatient look at his neighbor , and felt his flesh creep with uncontrollable horror when he found himself in actual contact with Magua . 
The sudden return of this artful and dreaded chief caused a delay in the departure of the Huron . 
Welcome ! one at length uttered has my friend found the moose ? The young men stagger under their burdens , returned Magua . 
Let 'Reed that bends' go on the hunting path he will meet them . 
A deep and awful silence succeeded the utterance of the forbidden name . 
Each pipe dropped from the lips of its owner as though all had inhaled an impurity at the same instant . 
There was nothing in the air or attire of this Indian that would seem to entitle him to such a distinction . 
The former was rather depressed , than remarkable for the bearing of the natives and the latter was such as was commonly worn by the ordinary men of the nation . 
Then he arose and lifted his voice in the general silence . 
It was a lie , he said I had no son . 
He who was called by that name is forgotten his blood was pale , and it came not from the veins of a Huron the wicked Chippewas cheated my squaw . 
The Great Spirit has said , that the family of Wiss entush should end he is happy who knows that the evil of his race dies with himself . 
The speaker , who was the father of the recreant young Indian , looked round and about him , as if seeking commendation of his stoicism in the eyes of the auditors . 
But the stern customs of his people had made too severe an exaction of the feeble old man . 
The expression of his eye contradicted his figurative and boastful language , while every muscle in his wrinkled visage was working with anguish . 
The Indians , who believe in the hereditary transmission of virtues and defects in character , suffered him to depart in silence . 
They who wear the petticoats of squaws , on their own river . 
One of them has been passing the tribe . 
Although secretly amazed at the facts communicated by the speech of the aged father , he permitted himself to ask no questions , reserving his inquiries for a more suitable moment . 
The wary , though seemingly abstracted Uncas , caught a glimpse of the movement , and turning suddenly to the light , their looks met . 
Near a minute these two bold and untamed spirits stood regarding one another steadily in the eye , neither quailing in the least before the fierce gaze he encountered . 
The hated and yet respected name was repeated as by one voice , carrying the sound even beyond the limits of the lodge . 
The women and children , who lingered around the entrance , took up the words in an echo , which was succeeded by another shrill and plaintive howl . 
The latter was not yet ended , when the sensation among the men had entirely abated . 
Uncas enjoyed his victory , but was content with merely exhibiting his triumph by a quiet smile an emblem of scorn which belongs to all time and every nation . 
Go ! call together the Huron dogs , that they may look upon a warrior , My nostrils are offended they scent the blood of a coward . 
The latter allusion struck deep , and the injury rankled . 
Many of the Hurons understood the strange tongue in which the captive spoke , among which number was Magua . 
This cunning savage beheld , and instantly profited by his advantage . 
Dropping the light robe of skin from his shoulder , he stretched forth his arm , and commenced a burst of his dangerous and artful eloquence . 
He never spoke without auditors , and rarely without making converts to his opinions . 
On the present occasion , his native powers were stimulated by the thirst of revenge . 
He again recounted the events of the attack on the island at Glenn's , the death of his associates and the escape of their most formidable enemies . 
Then he described the nature and position of the mount whither he had led such captives as had fallen into their hands . 
Here he paused , and looked about him , in affected veneration for the departed , but , in truth , to note the effect of his opening narrative . 
As usual , every eye was riveted on his face . 
Each dusky figure seemed a breathing statue , so motionless was the posture , so intense the attention of the individual . 
Then Magua dropped his voice which had hitherto been clear , strong and elevated , and touched upon the merits of the dead . 
No quality that was likely to command the sympathy of an Indian escaped his notice . 
One had never been known to follow the chase in vain another had been indefatigable on the trail of their enemies . 
This was brave , that generous . 
Are the bones of my young men , he concluded , in the burial place of the Hurons ? You know they are not . 
Their spirits are gone toward the setting sun , and are already crossing the great waters , to the happy hunting grounds . 
But they departed without food , without guns or knives , without moccasins , naked and poor as they were born . 
We will load the back of this Mohican until he staggers under our bounty , and dispatch him after my young men . 
A stain on the name of Huron can only be hid by blood that comes from the veins of an Indian . 
The effect of such an harangue , delivered in the nervous language and with the emphatic manner of a Huron orator , could scarcely be mistaken . 
One warrior in particular , a man of wild and ferocious mien , had been conspicuous for the attention he had given to the words of the speaker . 
His countenance had changed with each passing emotion , until it settled into a look of deadly malice . 
As Magua ended he arose and , uttering the yell of a demon , his polished little axe was seen glancing in the torchlight as he whirled it above his head . 
The motion and the cry were too sudden for words to interrupt his bloody intention . 
It appeared as if a bright gleam shot from his hand , which was crossed at the same moment by a dark and powerful line . 
The former was the tomahawk in its passage the latter the arm that Magua darted forward to divert its aim . 
The quick and ready motion of the chief was not entirely too late . 
The keen weapon cut the war plume from the scalping tuft of Uncas , and passed through the frail wall of the lodge as though it were hurled from some formidable engine . 
A glance told him that the blow had failed , and terror changed to admiration . 
Uncas stood still , looking his enemy in the eye with features that seemed superior to emotion . 
Marble could not be colder , calmer , or steadier than the countenance he put upon this sudden and vindictive attack . 
Then , as if pitying a want of skill which had proved so fortunate to himself , he smiled , and muttered a few words of contempt in his own tongue . 
Go ! take him where there is silence let us see if a Delaware can sleep at night , and in the morning die . 
It was only as the figure of Uncas stood in the opening of the door that his firm step hesitated . 
Magua was content with his success , or too much occupied with his secret purposes to push his inquiries any further . 
Shaking his mantle , and folding it on his bosom , he also quitted the place , without pursuing a subject which might have proved so fatal to the individual at his elbow . 
Notwithstanding his rising resentment , his natural firmness , and his anxiety on behalf of Uncas , Heyward felt sensibly relieved by the absence of so dangerous and so subtle a foe . 
The excitement produced by the speech gradually subsided . 
The warriors resumed their seats and clouds of smoke once more filled the lodge . 
When the chief , who had solicited the aid of Duncan , finished his pipe , he made a final and successful movement toward departing . 
A thicket of brush skirted its foot , and it became necessary to proceed through a crooked and narrow path . 
The boys had resumed their sports in the clearing , and were enacting a mimic chase to the post among themselves . 
The blaze of one of these fires lighted the way of the chief and Duncan , and gave a character of additional wildness to the rude scenery . 
At a little distance from a bald rock , and directly in its front , they entered a grassy opening , which they prepared to cross . 
Just then fresh fuel was added to the fire , and a powerful light penetrated even to that distant spot . 
It fell upon the white surface of the mountain , and was reflected downward upon a dark and mysterious looking being that arose , unexpectedly , in their path . 
The Indian paused , as if doubtful whether to proceed , and permitted his companion to approach his side . 
A large black ball , which at first seemed stationary , now began to move in a manner that to the latter was inexplicable . 
Again the fire brightened and its glare fell more distinctly on the object . 
Though it growled loudly and fiercely , and there were instants when its glistening eyeballs might be seen , it gave no other indications of hostility . 
The Huron , at least , seemed assured that the intentions of this singular intruder were peaceable , for after giving it an attentive examination , he quietly pursued his course . 
His uneasiness was in no degree diminished when he perceived the beast rolling along their path , and following their footsteps . 
He would have spoken , but the Indian at that moment shoved aside a door of bark , and entered a cavern in the bosom of the mountain . 
They were now in a straight and long gallery , in a chasm of the rocks , where retreat without encountering the animal was impossible . 
Making the best of the circumstances , the young man pressed forward , keeping as close as possible to his conductor . 
The bear growled frequently at his heels , and once or twice its enormous paws were laid on his person , as if disposed to prevent his further passage into the den . 
How long the nerves of Heyward would have sustained him in this extraordinary situation , it might be difficult to decide , for , happily , he soon found relief . 
A glimmer of light had constantly been in their front , and they now arrived at the place whence it proceeded . 
A large cavity in the rock had been rudely fitted to answer the purposes of many apartments . 
The subdivisions were simple but ingenious , being composed of stone , sticks , and bark , intermingled . 
Openings above admitted the light by day , and at night fires and torches supplied the place of the sun . 
The apartment into which Duncan and his guide first entered , had been exclusively devoted to her accommodation . 
The latter approached her bedside , which was surrounded by females , in the center of whom Heyward was surprised to find his missing friend David . 
A single look was sufficient to apprise the pretended leech that the invalid was far beyond his powers of healing . 
She lay in a sort of paralysis , indifferent to the objects which crowded before her sight , and happily unconscious of suffering . 
Heyward was far from regretting that his mummeries were to be performed on one who was much too ill to take an interest in their failure or success . 
He was allowed to proceed to the close , the Indians respecting his imaginary infirmity , and Duncan too glad of the delay to hazard the slightest interruption . 
The effect of so strange an echo on David may better be imagined than described . 
His eyes opened as if he doubted their truth and his voice became instantly mute in excess of wonder . 
Under its influence , he exclaimed aloud She expects you , and is at hand and precipitately left the cavern . 
Have you the lion's part written ? Pray you , if it be , give it to me , for I am slow of study . 
You may do it extempore , for it is nothing but roaring . 
Midsummer Night's Dream There was a strange blending of the ridiculous with that which was solemn in this scene . 
The beast sill continued its rolling , and apparently untiring movements , though its ludicrous attempt to imitate the melody of David ceased the instant the latter abandoned the field . 
Thus unequivocally called on to exercise the functions of his assumed character , Heyward was apprehensive that the smallest delay might prove dangerous . 
Three several times did he renew his efforts to proceed , and as often was he met by the same unaccountable opposition , each interruption seeming more savage and threatening than the preceding . 
The cunning ones are jealous , said the Huron I go Brother , the woman is the wife of one of my bravest young men deal justly by her . 
Peace ! he added , beckoning to the discontented beast to be quiet I go . 
The chief was as good as his word , and Duncan now found himself alone in that wild and desolate abode with the helpless invalid and the fierce and dangerous brute . 
The youth looked anxiously about him for some weapon , with which he might make a resistance against the attack he now seriously expected . 
It seemed , however , as if the humor of the animal had suddenly changed . 
Instead of continuing its discontented growls , or manifesting any further signs of anger , the whole of its shaggy body shook violently , as if agitated by some strange internal convulsion . 
Tell me the meaning of this masquerade and why you have attempted so desperate an adventure ? Ah , reason and calculation are often outdone by accident , returned the scout . 
But , as a story should always commence at the beginning , I will tell you the whole in order . 
After which Uncas and I pushed for the other encampment as was agreed . 
Have you seen the lad ? To my great grief ! He is captive , and condemned to die at the rising of the sun . 
I had misgivings that such would be his fate , resumed the scout , in a less confident and joyous tone . 
Keep to your tale , said the impatient Heyward we know not at what moment the Hurons may return . 
A conjurer must have his time , like a straggling priest in the settlements . 
We are as safe from interruption as a missionary would be at the beginning of a two hours' discourse . 
And dearly has he paid for the weakness . 
The scout significantly passed his hand across his own throat , and nodded , as if he said , I comprehend your meaning . 
After which he continued , in a more audible though scarcely more intelligible language After the loss of the boy I turned upon the Hurons , as you may judge . 
There have been scrimmages atween one or two of their outlyers and myself but that is neither here nor there . 
So , after I had shot the imps , I got in pretty nigh to the lodges without further commotion . 
And admirably did you enact the character the animal itself might have been shamed by the representation . 
Had it been now a catamount , or even a full size panther , I would have embellished a performance for you worth regarding . 
But it is no such marvelous feat to exhibit the feats of so dull a beast though , for that matter , too , a bear may be overacted . 
Yes , yes it is not every imitator that knows natur' may be outdone easier than she is equaled . 
But all our work is yet before us . 
Where is the gentle one ? Heaven knows . 
I have examined every lodge in the village , without discovering the slightest trace of her presence in the tribe . 
You heard what the singer said , as he left us 'She is at hand , and expects you' ? I have been compelled to believe he alluded to this unhappy woman . 
The simpleton was frightened , and blundered through his message but he had a deeper meaning . 
Here are walls enough to separate the hole settlement . 
A bear ought to climb therefore will I take a look above them . 
There may be honey pots hid in these rocks , and I am a beast , you know , that has a hankering for the sweets . 
She is here , he whispered , and by that door you will find her . 
I would have spoken a word of comfort to the afflicted soul but the sight of such a monster might upset her reason . 
Though for that matter , major , you are none of the most inviting yourself in your paint . 
Duncan , who had already swung eagerly forward , drew instantly back on hearing these discouraging words . 
Am I , then , so very revolting ? he demanded , with an air of chagrin . 
It's as common for a conjurer to alter his paint as for a buck in the settlements to change his finery . 
The deliberate woodsman had little occasion to hunt for arguments to enforce his advice . 
He was yet speaking when Duncan availed himself of the water . 
In a moment every frightful or offensive mark was obliterated , and the youth appeared again in the lineaments with which he had been gifted by nature . 
Thus prepared for an interview with his mistress , he took a hasty leave of his companion , and disappeared through the indicated passage . 
Duncan had no other guide than a distant glimmering light , which served , however , the office of a polar star to the lover . 
It was profusely strewed with the plunder of that unlucky fortress . 
In the midst of this confusion he found her he sought , pale , anxious and terrified , but lovely . 
David had prepared her for such a visit . 
Duncan ! she exclaimed , in a voice that seemed to tremble at the sounds created by itself . 
Alice ! he answered , leaping carelessly among trunks , boxes , arms , and furniture , until he stood at her side . 
I knew that you would never desert me , she said , looking up with a momentary glow on her otherwise dejected countenance . 
But you are alone ! Grateful as it is to be thus remembered , I could wish to think you are not entirely alone . 
The soothing tenderness of Duncan , however , soon quieted the first burst of her emotions , and she then heard him to the close with undivided attention , if not with composure . 
And now , Alice , he added , you will see how much is still expected of you . 
By the assistance of our experienced and invaluable friend , the scout , we may find our way from this savage people , but you will have to exert your utmost fortitude . 
Remember that you fly to the arms of your venerable parent , and how much his happiness , as well as your own , depends on those exertions . 
The look of innocence and surprise which he received in return convinced Duncan of the necessity of being more explicit . 
And , dearest Cora , Duncan surely Cora was not forgotten ? Not forgotten ! no regretted , as woman was seldom mourned before . 
Though more I should not , less I could not say , the youth was about to answer , when he was interrupted by a light tap on his shoulder . 
Starting to his feet , he turned , and , confronting the intruder , his looks fell on the dark form and malignant visage of Magua . 
The deep guttural laugh of the savage sounded , at such a moment , to Duncan , like the hellish taunt of a demon . 
Had he pursued the sudden and fierce impulse of the instant , he would have cast himself on the Huron , and committed their fortunes to the issue of a deadly struggle . 
The exulting Indian had resumed his austere countenance , though he drew warily back before the menacing glance of the young man's fiery eye . 
But Magua meditated no immediate violence . 
When Magua had effected his object he approached his prisoners , and said in English The pale faces trap the cunning beavers but the red skins know how to take the Yengeese . 
Huron , do your worst ! exclaimed the excited Heyward , forgetful that a double stake was involved in his life you and your vengeance are alike despised . 
Here singly to your face , or in the presence of your nation . 
Le Renard Subtil is a great chief ! returned the Indian he will go and bring his young men , to see how bravely a pale face can laugh at tortures . 
The figure of the bear appeared in the door , where it sat , rolling from side to side in its customary restlessness . 
Magua , like the father of the sick woman , eyed it keenly for a moment , as if to ascertain its character . 
But a louder and more threatening growl caused him again to pause . 
Then he seemed as if suddenly resolved to trifle no longer , and moved resolutely forward . 
Fool ! exclaimed the chief , in Huron , go play with the children and squaws leave men to their wisdom . 
He once more endeavored to pass the supposed empiric , scorning even the parade of threatening to use the knife , or tomahawk , that was pendent from his belt . 
Suddenly the beast extended its arms , or rather legs , and inclosed him in a grasp that might have vied with the far famed power of the bear's hug itself . 
Heyward had watched the whole procedure , on the part of Hawkeye , with breathless interest . 
Arms , legs , and feet were encircled in twenty folds of the thong , in less time than we have taken to record the circumstance . 
When the formidable Huron was completely pinioned , the scout released his hold , and Duncan laid his enemy on his back , utterly helpless . 
By what place did the imp enter ? asked the industrious scout , when his work was ended . 
Not a soul has passed my way since you left me . 
Duncan pointed out the door by which Magua had come , and which now presented too many obstacles to a quick retreat . 
Bring on the gentle one , then , continued his friend we must make a push for the woods by the other outlet . 
'Tis impossible ! said Duncan fear has overcome her , and she is helpless . 
Alice ! my sweet , my own Alice , arouse yourself now is the moment to fly . 
'Tis in vain ! she hears , but is unable to follow . 
Go , noble and worthy friend save yourself , and leave me to my fate . 
Every trail has its end , and every calamity brings its lesson ! returned the scout . 
There , wrap her in them Indian cloths . 
Conceal all of her little form . 
Nay , that foot has no fellow in the wilderness it will betray her . 
Now take her in your arms , and follow . 
Leave the rest to me . 
They found the sick woman as they had left her , still alone , and passed swiftly on , by the natural gallery , to the place of entrance . 
Practise all your cunning , for it is a lawful undertaking . 
The door opened a little , as if one without was listening to the proceedings within , and compelled the scout to cease his directions . 
A fierce growl repelled the eavesdropper , and then the scout boldly threw open the covering of bark , and left the place , enacting the character of a bear as he proceeded . 
Duncan kept close at his heels , and soon found himself in the center of a cluster of twenty anxious relatives and friends . 
The crowd fell back a little , and permitted the father , and one who appeared to be the husband of the woman , to approach . 
Has my brother driven away the evil spirit ? demanded the former . 
What has he in his arms ? Thy child , returned Duncan , gravely the disease has gone out of her it is shut up in the rocks . 
I take the woman to a distance , where I will strengthen her against any further attacks . 
She will be in the wigwam of the young man when the sun comes again . 
When the father had translated the meaning of the stranger's words into the Huron language , a suppressed murmur announced the satisfaction with which this intelligence was received . 
Heyward had gladly obeyed , and was already past the little group , when these startling words arrested him . 
No let my children wait without , and if the spirit appears beat him down with clubs . 
He is cunning , and will bury himself in the mountain , when he sees how many are ready to fight him . 
This singular warning had the desired effect . 
At this favorable moment the counterfeit conjurers disappeared . 
He well knew the value of time in the present emergency . 
Taking the path , therefore , that was most likely to avoid observation , he rather skirted than entered the village . 
The warriors were still to be seen in the distance , by the fading light of the fires , stalking from lodge to lodge . 
Nay , Alice , you are yet too weak . 
The maiden struggled gently to release herself , and Heyward was compelled to part with his precious burden . 
But when he found himself at a suitable distance from the lodges he made a halt , and spoke on a subject of which he was thoroughly the master . 
There you must go and demand protection if they are true Delawares you will be safe . 
A distant flight with that gentle one , just now , is impossible . 
The Hurons would follow up our trail , and master our scalps before we had got a dozen miles . 
Go , and Providence be with you . 
He was aided by Alice , who mingled her entreaties with those of Heyward that he would abandon a resolution that promised so much danger , with so little hope of success . 
Their eloquence and ingenuity were expended in vain . 
I have heard , he said , that there is a feeling in youth which binds man to woman closer than the father is tied to the son . 
I have seldom been where women of my color dwell but such may be the gifts of nature in the settlements . 
As for me , I taught the lad the real character of a rifle and well has he paid me for it . 
After pausing a moment to gaze at his retiring form , the successful and yet sorrowful Heyward and Alice took their way together toward the distant village of the Delawares . 
Let me play the lion too . 
Midsummer Night's Dream Notwithstanding the high resolution of Hawkeye he fully comprehended all the difficulties and danger he was about to incur . 
Accordingly , he trusted to the withes and ligaments with which he had bound his captives , and pursued his way directly toward the center of the lodges . 
As he approached the buildings , his steps become more deliberate , and his vigilant eye suffered no sign , whether friendly or hostile , to escape him . 
A faint light glimmered through its cracks , however , and announced that , notwithstanding its imperfect structure , it was not without a tenant . 
Thither , then , the scout proceeded , like a prudent general , who was about to feel the advanced positions of his enemy , before he hazarded the main attack . 
Throwing himself into a suitable posture for the beast he represented , Hawkeye crawled to a little opening , where he might command a view of the interior . 
It proved to be the abiding place of David Gamut . 
Hither the faithful singing master had now brought himself , together with all his sorrows , his apprehensions , and his meek dependence on the protection of Providence . 
However implicit the faith of David was in the performance of ancient miracles , he eschewed the belief of any direct supernatural agency in the management of modern morality . 
There was something in his air and manner that betrayed to the scout the utter confusion of the state of his mind . 
The suddenness and the nature of the surprise had nearly proved too much for we will not say the philosophy but for the pitch and resolution of David . 
He fumbled for his pitch pipe , and arose with a confused intention of attempting a musical exorcism . 
The bear shook his shaggy sides , and then a well known voice replied Put up the tooting we'pon , and teach your throat modesty . 
Five words of plain and comprehendible English are worth just now an hour of squalling . 
What art thou ? demanded David , utterly disqualified to pursue his original intention , and nearly gasping for breath . 
A man like yourself and one whose blood is as little tainted by the cross of a bear , or an Indian , as your own . 
I have found many marvels during my sojourn with the heathen , but surely nothing to excel this . 
Now let us to business . 
First tell me of the maiden , and of the youth who so bravely sought her , interrupted David . 
Ay , they are happily freed from the tomahawks of these varlets . 
But can you put me on the scent of Uncas ? The young man is in bondage , and much I fear his death is decreed . 
No more words , but lead on , returned Hawkeye , concealing his face again , and setting the example in his own person , by instantly quitting the lodge . 
But it was not the policy of Hawkeye to affect the least concealment . 
Presuming on his disguise , and his ability to sustain the character he had assumed , he took the most plain and direct route to the place . 
The hour , however , afforded him some little of that protection which he appeared so much to despise . 
The boys were already buried in sleep , and all the women , and most of the warriors , had retired to their lodges for the night . 
Four or five of the latter only lingered about the door of the prison of Uncas , wary by close observers of the manner of their captive . 
At the sight of Gamut , accompanied by one in the well known masquerade of their most distinguished conjurer , they readily made way for them both . 
Still they betrayed no intention to depart . 
On the other hand , they were evidently disposed to remain bound to the place by an additional interest in the mysterious mummeries that they of course expected from such a visit . 
From the total inability of the scout to address the Hurons in their own language , he was compelled to trust the conversation entirely to David . 
Notwithstanding the simplicity of the latter , he did ample justice to the instructions he had received , more than fulfilling the strongest hopes of his teacher . 
Then let him step aside , and the cunning man will blow upon the dog . 
Tell it to my brothers . 
They drew back a little from the entrance and motioned to the supposed conjurer to enter . 
Then , as if satisfied of their safety , the scout left his position , and slowly entered the place . 
It was silent and gloomy , being tenanted solely by the captive , and lighted by the dying embers of a fire , which had been used for the purposed of cookery . 
Uncas occupied a distant corner , in a reclining attitude , being rigidly bound , both hands and feet , by strong and painful withes . 
When the frightful object first presented itself to the young Mohican , he did not deign to bestow a single glance on the animal . 
The scout , who had left David at the door , to ascertain they were not observed , thought it prudent to preserve his disguise until assured of their privacy . 
Instead of speaking , therefore , he exerted himself to enact one of the antics of the animal he represented . 
Had Hawkeye been aware of the low estimation in which the skillful Uncas held his representations , he would probably have prolonged the entertainment a little in pique . 
But the scornful expression of the young man's eye admitted of so many constructions , that the worthy scout was spared the mortification of such a discovery . 
As soon , therefore , as David gave the preconcerted signal , a low hissing sound was heard in the lodge in place of the fierce growlings of the bear . 
Uncas had cast his body back against the wall of the hut and closed his eyes , as if willing to exclude so contemptible and disagreeable an object from his sight . 
Again the same sounds were repeated , evidently proceeding from the mouth of the beast . 
The singer did as he was ordered , and Uncas found his limbs released . 
At the same moment the dried skin of the animal rattled , and presently the scout arose to his feet , in proper person . 
The Mohican appeared to comprehend the nature of the attempt his friend had made , intuitively , neither tongue nor feature betraying another symptom of surprise . 
The red Hurons are without , he said let us be ready . 
At the same time he laid his finger significantly on another similar weapon , both being the fruits of his prowess among their enemies during the evening . 
We will go , said Uncas . 
Whither ? To the Tortoises they are the children of my grandfathers . 
What shall we do with the Mingoes at the door ? They count six , and this singer is as good as nothing . 
The Hurons are boasters , said Uncas , scornfully their 'totem' is a moose , and they run like snails . 
The Delawares are children of the tortoise , and they outstrip the deer . 
But the gift of a white man lies more in his arms than in his legs . 
As for myself , I can brain a Huron as well as a better man but when it comes to a race the knaves would prove too much for me . 
Uncas , who had already approached the door , in readiness to lead the way , now recoiled , and placed himself , once more , in the bottom of the lodge . 
But Hawkeye , who was too much occupied with his own thoughts to note the movement , continued speaking more to himself than to his companion . 
After all , he said , it is unreasonable to keep one man in bondage to the gifts of another . 
So , Uncas , you had better take the lead , while I will put on the skin again , and trust to cunning for want of speed . 
The young Mohican made no reply , but quietly folded his arms , and leaned his body against one of the upright posts that supported the wall of the hut . 
Well , said the scout looking up at him , why do you tarry ? There will be time enough for me , as the knaves will give chase to you at first . 
Uncas will stay , was the calm reply . 
For what ? To fight with his father's brother , and die with the friend of the Delawares . 
Ay , lad , returned Hawkeye , squeezing the hand of Uncas between his own iron fingers 'twould have been more like a Mingo than a Mohican had you left me . 
But I thought I would make the offer , seeing that youth commonly loves life . 
Well , what can't be done by main courage , in war , must be done by circumvention . 
Put on the skin I doubt not you can play the bear nearly as well as myself . 
Whatever might have been the private opinion of Uncas of their respective abilities in this particular , his grave countenance manifested no opinion of his superiority . 
He silently and expeditiously encased himself in the covering of the beast , and then awaited such other movements as his more aged companion saw fit to dictate . 
Here , take my hunting shirt and cap , and give me your blanket and hat . 
David parted with the several articles named with a readiness that would have done great credit to his liberality , had he not certainly profited , in many particulars , by the exchange . 
As soon as these dispositions were made , the scout turned to David , and gave him his parting instructions . 
Are you much given to cowardice ? he bluntly asked , by way of obtaining a suitable understanding of the whole case before he ventured a prescription . 
Your chiefest danger will be at the moment when the savages find out that they have been deceived . 
If you are not then knocked on the head , your being a non composser will protect you and you'll then have a good reason to expect to die in your bed . 
So choose for yourself to make a rush or tarry here . 
Even so , said David , firmly I will abide in the place of the Delaware . 
Bravely and generously has he battled in my behalf , and this , and more , will I dare in his service . 
You have spoken as a man , and like one who , under wiser schooling , would have been brought to better things . 
Hold your head down , and draw in your legs their formation might tell the truth too early . 
Hold ! said David , perceiving that with this assurance they were about to leave him I am an unworthy and humble follower of one who taught not the damnable principle of revenge . 
The scout hesitated , and appeared to muse . 
There is a principle in that , he said , different from the law of the woods and yet it is fair and noble to reflect upon . 
So saying , the scout returned and shook David cordially by the hand after which act of friendship he immediately left the lodge , attended by the new representative of the beast . 
It was necessary to pass within a dangerous proximity of the dark group of the savages , and the voice of the scout grew louder as they drew nigher . 
When at the nearest point the Huron who spoke the English thrust out an arm , and stopped the supposed singing master . 
Among his actual auditors , however , it merely gave him an additional claim to that respect which they never withhold from such as are believed to be the subjects of mental alienation . 
The little knot on Indians drew back in a body , and suffered , as they thought , the conjurer and his inspired assistant to proceed . 
The least injudicious or impatient movement on the part of David might betray them , and time was absolutely necessary to insure the safety of the scout . 
They were not , however , interrupted , the darkness of the hour , and the boldness of the attempt , proving their principal friends . 
The Mohican started on his feet , and shook his shaggy covering , as though the animal he counterfeited was about to make some desperate effort . 
Hold ! said the scout , grasping his friend by the shoulder , let them yell again ! 'Twas nothing but wonderment . 
He had no occasion to delay , for at the next instant a burst of cries filled the outer air , and ran along the whole extent of the village . 
Uncas cast his skin , and stepped forth in his own beautiful proportions . 
Hawkeye tapped him lightly on the shoulder , and glided ahead . 
Then , throwing their pieces to a low trail , like sportsmen in readiness for their game , they dashed forward , and were soon buried in the somber darkness of the forest . 
I shall remember When C sar says Do this , it is performed . 
Julius Caesar The impatience of the savages who lingered about the prison of Uncas , as has been seen , had overcome their dread of the conjurer's breath . 
They stole cautiously , and with beating hearts , to a crevice , through which the faint light of the fire was glimmering . 
For several minutes they mistook the form of David for that of the prisoner but the very accident which Hawkeye had foreseen occurred . 
At first the Hurons believed the Delaware had been thus deformed by witchcraft . 
They rushed together into the lodge , and , laying their hands , with but little ceremony , on their captive , immediately detected the imposition . 
They arose the cry first heard by the fugitives . 
It was succeeded by the most frantic and angry demonstrations of vengeance . 
David , however , firm in his determination to cover the retreat of his friends , was compelled to believe that his own final hour had come . 
The Indians were seasonably reminded of his infirmity , and , rushing into the open air , they aroused the village in the manner described . 
A native warrior fights as he sleeps , without the protection of anything defensive . 
The sounds of the alarm were , therefore , hardly uttered before two hundred men were afoot , and ready for the battle or the chase , as either might be required . 
The escape was soon known and the whole tribe crowded , in a body , around the council lodge , impatiently awaiting the instruction of their chiefs . 
In such a sudden demand on their wisdom , the presence of the cunning Magua could scarcely fail of being needed . 
His name was mentioned , and all looked round in wonder that he did not appear . 
Messengers were then despatched to his lodge requiring his presence . 
Women and children ran to and fro and , in short , the whole encampment exhibited another scene of wild and savage confusion . 
Gradually , however , these symptoms of disorder diminished and in a few minutes the oldest and most distinguished chiefs were assembled in the lodge , in grave consultation . 
The clamor of many voices soon announced that a party approached , who might be expected to communicate some intelligence that would explain the mystery of the novel surprise . 
The crowd without gave way , and several warriors entered the place , bringing with them the hapless conjurer , who had been left so long by the scout in duress . 
When his brief story was ended , the father of the sick woman stepped forth , and , in a few pithy expression , related , in his turn , what he knew . 
These two narratives gave a proper direction to the subsequent inquiries , which were now made with the characteristic cunning of savages . 
Instead of rushing in a confused and disorderly throng to the cavern , ten of the wisest and firmest among the chiefs were selected to prosecute the investigation . 
As no time was to be lost , the instant the choice was made the individuals appointed rose in a body and left the place without speaking . 
The outer apartment of the cavern was silent and gloomy . 
The woman lay in her usual place and posture , though there were those present who affirmed they had seen her borne to the woods by the supposed medicine of the white men . 
Such a direct and palpable contradiction of the tale related by the father caused all eyes to be turned on him . 
The unerring feeling of nature for a moment prevailed and the old warrior hid his eyes in sorrow . 
The mournful intelligence was received in solemn silence . 
The discovery was succeeded by a general exclamation of amazement . 
As soon , however , as the true situation of the chief was understood , several knives appeared , and his limbs and tongue were quickly released . 
The Huron arose , and shook himself like a lion quitting his lair . 
When , however , suitable time had elapsed , the oldest of the party spoke . 
My friend has found an enemy , he said . 
Is he nigh that the Hurons might take revenge ? Let the Delaware die ! exclaimed Magua , in a voice of thunder . 
Another longer and expressive silence was observed , and was broken , as before , with due precaution , by the same individual . 
The Mohican is swift of foot , and leaps far , he said but my young men are on his trail . 
Is he gone ? demanded Magua , in tones so deep and guttural , that they seemed to proceed from his inmost chest . 
An evil spirit has been among us , and the Delaware has blinded our eyes . 
The pronunciation of so terrible a name produced the usual effect among his auditors . 
But this sudden outbreaking of temper as quickly subsided in the still and sullen restraint they most affected in their moments of inaction . 
Let us go to my people , he said they wait for us . 
His companions consented in silence , and the whole of the savage party left the cavern and returned to the council lodge . 
He arose , and told his tale without duplicity or reservation . 
It was but too apparent that they had been insultingly , shamefully , disgracefully deceived . 
The next consideration , however , was the means and opportunities for revenge . 
Additional pursuers were sent on the trail of the fugitives and then the chiefs applied themselves , in earnest , to the business of consultation . 
Many different expedients were proposed by the elder warriors , in succession , to all of which Magua was a silent and respectful listener . 
That subtle savage had recovered his artifice and self command , and now proceeded toward his object with his customary caution and skill . 
It was only when each one disposed to speak had uttered his sentiments , that he prepared to advance his own opinions . 
They were , briefly , as follows , both in opinions and in motives . 
It has been already stated that , in obedience to a policy rarely departed from , the sisters were separated so soon as they reached the Huron village . 
Magua had early discovered that in retaining the person of Alice , he possessed the most effectual check on Cora . 
When they parted , therefore , he kept the former within reach of his hand , consigning the one he most valued to the keeping of their allies . 
The arrangement was understood to be merely temporary , and was made as much with a view to flatter his neighbors as in obedience to the invariable rule of Indian policy . 
While goaded incessantly by these revengeful impulses that in a savage seldom slumber , the chief was still attentive to his more permanent personal interests . 
But , while he was making this ostensible sacrifice to general considerations , Magua never lost sight of his individual motives . 
But plans so dangerous to attempt , and of such doubtful issue , Magua found little difficulty in defeating . 
He commenced by flattering the self love of his auditors a never failing method of commanding attention . 
After he had sufficiently extolled the property of discretion , he undertook to exhibit in what manner its use was applicable to the present situation of their tribe . 
He spoke openly of the fruits of their wisdom , which he boldly pronounced would be a complete and final triumph over their enemies . 
He even darkly hinted that their success might be extended , with proper caution , in such a manner as to include the destruction of all whom they had reason to hate . 
The orator , or the politician , who can produce such a state of things , is commonly popular with his contemporaries , however he may be treated by posterity . 
In this happy state of things , it is not surprising that the management of Magua prevailed . 
Magua had now attained one great object of all his cunning and enterprise . 
The ground he had lost in the favor of his people was completely regained , and he found himself even placed at the head of affairs . 
Throwing off , therefore , the appearance of consultation , he assumed the grave air of authority necessary to support the dignity of his office . 
When these several arrangements were made , Magua passed through the village , stopping here and there to pay a visit where he thought his presence might be flattering to the individual . 
He confirmed his friends in their confidence , fixed the wavering , and gratified all . 
Then he sought his own lodge . 
The wife the Huron chief had abandoned , when he was chased from among his people , was dead . 
Children he had none and he now occupied a hut , without companion of any sort . 
Hither , then , Magua retired , when his labors of policy were ended . 
While others slept , however , he neither knew or sought repose . 
At such moments it would not have been difficult to have fancied the dusky savage the Prince of Darkness brooding on his own fancied wrongs , and plotting evil . 
Long before the day dawned , however , warrior after warrior entered the solitary hut of Magua , until they had collected to the number of twenty . 
Each bore his rifle , and all the other accouterments of war , though the paint was uniformly peaceful . 
Then Magua arose and gave the signal to proceed , marching himself in advance . 
They followed their leader singly , and in that well known order which has obtained the distinguishing appellation of Indian file . 
The day began to dawn as they entered the clearing which had been formed by those sagacious and industrious animals . 
There would have been a species of profanity in the omission , had this man passed so powerful a community of his fancied kindred , without bestowing some evidence of his regard . 
Accordingly , he paused , and spoke in words as kind and friendly as if he were addressing more intelligent beings . 
He called the animals his cousins , and reminded them that his protecting influence was the reason they remained unharmed , while many avaricious traders were prompting the Indians to take their lives . 
He promised a continuance of his favors , and admonished them to be grateful . 
These harangues of the beasts were frequent among the Indians . 
They often address their victims in this way , reproaching them for cowardice or commending their resolution , as they may happen to exhibit fortitude or the reverse , in suffering . 
During the utterance of this extraordinary address , the companions of the speaker were as grave and as attentive to his language as though they were all equally impressed with its propriety . 
Once or twice black objects were seen rising to the surface of the water , and the Huron expressed pleasure , conceiving that his words were not bestowed in vain . 
Such an extraordinary sign of confidence was received by the orator as a highly favorable omen and though the animal retreated a little precipitately , he was lavish of his thanks and commendations . 
When Magua thought sufficient time had been lost in gratifying the family affection of the warrior , he again made the signal to proceed . 
Had any of the Hurons turned to look behind them , they would have seen the animal watching their movements with an interest and sagacity that might easily have been mistaken for reason . 
CHAPTER Brief , I pray for you for you see , 'tis a busy time with me . 
The French had accounted for this unexpected defection on the part of their ally in various ways . 
The politic captain of the Canadas had deemed it wiser to submit to entertain a passive friend , than by any acts of ill judged severity to convert him into an open enemy . 
The warriors were lounging in groups , musing more than they conversed and when a few words were uttered , speaking like men who deeply weighed their opinions . 
The instruments of the chase were to be seen in abundance among the lodges but none departed . 
During the existence of this scene , a man suddenly appeared at the furthest extremity of a platform of rock which formed the level of the village . 
He was without arms , and his paint tended rather to soften than increase the natural sternness of his austere countenance . 
The inhabitants of the village answered his salute by a low murmur of welcome , and encouraged him to advance by similar indications of friendship . 
His reception was grave , silent , and wary . 
The warriors in front stepped aside , opening the way to their most approved orator by the action one who spoke all those languages that were cultivated among the northern aborigines . 
The wise Huron is welcome , said the Delaware , in the language of the Maquas he is come to eat his 'succotash' , with his brothers of the lakes . 
A dish composed of cracked corn and beans . 
It is much used also by the whites . 
By corn is meant maise . 
He is come , repeated Magua , bending his head with the dignity of an eastern prince . 
The chief extended his arm and taking the other by the wrist , they once more exchanged friendly salutations . 
Then the Delaware invited his guest to enter his own lodge , and share his morning meal . 
During the short and frugal repast that followed , the conversation was extremely circumspect , and related entirely to the events of the hunt , in which Magua had so lately been engaged . 
When the appetites of the whole were appeased , the squaws removed the trenchers and gourds , and the two parties began to prepare themselves for a subtle trial of their wits . 
Is the face of my great Canada father turned again toward his Huron children ? demanded the orator of the Delawares . 
When was it ever otherwise ? returned Magua . 
He calls my people 'most beloved' . 
The Delaware gravely bowed his acquiescence to what he knew to be false , and continued The tomahawks of your young men have been very red . 
It is so but they are now bright and dull for the Yengeese are dead , and the Delawares are our neighbors . 
The other acknowledged the pacific compliment by a gesture of the hand , and remained silent . 
Then Magua , as if recalled to such a recollection , by the allusion to the massacre , demanded Does my prisoner give trouble to my brothers ? She is welcome . 
The path between the Hurons and the Delawares is short and it is open let her be sent to my squaws , if she gives trouble to my brother . 
She is welcome , returned the chief of the latter nation , still more emphatically . 
The baffled Magua continued silent several minutes , apparently indifferent , however , to the repulse he had received in this his opening effort to regain possession of Cora . 
Do my young men leave the Delawares room on the mountains for their hunts ? he at length continued . 
The Lenape are rulers of their own hills , returned the other a little haughtily . 
Justice is the master of a red skin . 
When the great chief comes , it is to smoke with the Indians in their wigwams . 
The Hurons say , too , he is welcome . 
The warrior whose eye is open can see his enemy , said Magua , once more shifting his ground , when he found himself unable to penetrate the caution of his companion . 
I have brought gifts to my brother . 
His nation would not go on the warpath , because they did not think it well , but their friends have remembered where they lived . 
When he had thus announced his liberal intention , the crafty chief arose , and gravely spread his presents before the dazzled eyes of his hosts . 
They consisted principally of trinkets of little value , plundered from the slaughtered females of William Henry . 
In the division of the baubles the cunning Huron discovered no less art than in their selection . 
This well judged and politic stroke on the part of Magua was not without instantaneous results . 
The Hurons love their friends the Delawares , returned Magua . 
Why should they not ? they are colored by the same sun , and their just men will hunt in the same grounds after death . 
The red skins should be friends , and look with open eyes on the white men . 
His countenance grew very sensibly less stern and he now deigned to answer more directly . 
There have been strange moccasins about my camp . 
They have been tracked into my lodges . 
Did my brother beat out the dogs ? asked Magua , without adverting in any manner to the former equivocation of the chief . 
The stranger is always welcome to the children of the Lenape . 
The stranger , but not the spy . 
Would the Yengeese send their women as spies ? Did not the Huron chief say he took women in the battle ? He told no lie . 
The Yengeese have sent out their scouts . 
They have been in my wigwams , but they found there no one to say welcome . 
There was no deep insight into causes and effects necessary to foresee that such a situation of things was likely to prove highly prejudicial to their future movements . 
Accordingly , this alarming annunciation was received , as Magua intended , with manifest disapprobation , if not with alarm . 
Let my father look in my face , said Le Coeur dur he will see no change . 
It is true , my young men did not go out on the war path they had dreams for not doing so . 
But they love and venerate the great white chief . 
What does my brother mean ? demanded Le Coeur dur , in a tone that , by its wonder , far exceeded the usual apathy of his race . 
A Huron never lies ! returned Magua , coldly , leaning his head against the side of the lodge , and drawing his slight robe across his tawny breast . 
Let the Delawares count their prisoners they will find one whose skin is neither red nor pale . 
A long and musing pause succeeded . 
The chief consulted apart with his companions , and messengers despatched to collect certain others of the most distinguished men of the tribe . 
As warrior after warrior dropped in , they were each made acquainted , in turn , with the important intelligence that Magua had just communicated . 
The air of surprise , and the usual low , deep , guttural exclamation , were common to them all . 
The news spread from mouth to mouth , until the whole encampment became powerfully agitated . 
The women suspended their labors , to catch such syllables as unguardedly fell from the lips of the consulting warriors . 
Not a single indication of the future intentions of his hosts , however , escaped his vigilant eyes . 
The council of the Delawares was short . 
When it was ended , a general bustle announced that it was to be immediately succeeded by a solemn and formal assemblage of the nation . 
He , therefore , left the lodge and walked silently forth to the place , in front of the encampment , whither the warriors were already beginning to collect . 
It might have been half an hour before each individual , including even the women and children , was in his place . 
The delay had been created by the grave preparations that were deemed necessary to so solemn and unusual a conference . 
Its number somewhat exceeded a thousand souls . 
An act of so much precipitancy and presumption would seal the downfall of precocious intellect forever . 
It rested solely with the oldest and most experienced of the men to lay the subject of the conference before the people . 
Until such a one chose to make some movement , no deeds in arms , no natural gifts , nor any renown as an orator , would have justified the slightest interruption . 
On the present occasion , the aged warrior whose privilege it was to speak , was silent , seemingly oppressed with the magnitude of his subject . 
The delay had already continued long beyond the usual deliberative pause that always preceded a conference but no sign of impatience or surprise escaped even the youngest boy . 
At length one of those low murmurs , that are so apt to disturb a multitude , was heard , and the whole nation arose to their feet by a common impulse . 
At that instant the door of the lodge in question opened , and three men , issuing from it , slowly approached the place of consultation . 
His frame , which had once been tall and erect , like the cedar , was now bending under the pressure of more than a century . 
The elastic , light step of an Indian was gone , and in its place he was compelled to toil his tardy way over the ground , inch by inch . 
His bosom was loaded with medals , some in massive silver , and one or two even in gold , the gifts of various Christian potentates during the long period of his life . 
He also wore armlets , and cinctures above the ankles , of the latter precious metal . 
His tomahawk was nearly hid in silver , and the handle of his knife shone like a horn of solid gold . 
The Americans sometimes called their tutelar saint Tamenay , a corruption of the name of the renowned chief here introduced . 
There are many traditions which speak of the character and power of Tamenund . 
The eyes of the old man were closed , as though the organs were wearied with having so long witnessed the selfish workings of the human passions . 
Nothing could surpass the reverence and affection with which this unexpected visit from one who belongs rather to another world than to this , was received by his people . 
After a suitable and decent pause , the principal chiefs arose , and , approaching the patriarch , they placed his hands reverently on their heads , seeming to entreat a blessing . 
When these acts of affection and respect were performed , the chiefs drew back again to their several places , and silence reigned in the whole encampment . 
In a few minutes they reappeared , escorting the individuals who had caused all these solemn preparations toward the seat of judgment . 
CHAPTER The assembly seated , rising o'er the rest , Achilles thus the king of men addressed . 
Pope's Illiad Cora stood foremost among the prisoners , entwining her arms in those of Alice , in the tenderness of sisterly love . 
The former , however , glanced his eyes around the dark and silent assembly , and recoiled a pace , when they fell on the malignant visage of Magua . 
He had witnessed one instance of the summary punishments of the Indians , and now dreaded that his companion was to be selected for a second . 
In this dilemma , with little or no time for reflection , he suddenly determined to cloak his invaluable friend , at any or every hazard to himself . 
Before he had time , however , to speak , the question was repeated in a louder voice , and with a clearer utterance . 
Give us arms , the young man haughtily replied , and place us in yonder woods . 
What has brought the white man into the camp of the Delawares ? My necessities . 
I come for food , shelter , and friends . 
The woods are full of game . 
The head of a warrior needs no other shelter than a sky without clouds and the Delawares are the enemies , and not the friends of the Yengeese . 
Go , the mouth has spoken , while the heart said nothing . 
Some of their old men consulted together in private , and then , as it would seem , they determined to interrogate their visitor on the subject . 
My brother has said that a snake crept into my camp , said the chief to Magua which is he ? The Huron pointed to the scout . 
He was not deceived for , after another short consultation , the wary Delaware turned to him again , and expressed the determination of the chiefs , though in the most considerate language . 
My brother has been called a liar , he said , and his friends are angry . 
They will show that he has spoken the truth . 
Give my prisoners guns , and let them prove which is the man . 
Heyward smiled to himself at the idea of a competition with the scout , though he determined to persevere in the deception , until apprised of the real designs of Magua . 
Raising his rifle with the utmost care , and renewing his aim three several times , he fired . 
Even Hawkeye nodded his head , as if he would say , it was better than he expected . 
Beat it , repeated the young Delaware at the elbow of the scout . 
Beat what , fool ! what ? exclaimed Hawkeye , still flourishing the weapon angrily above his head , though his eye no longer sought the person of Magua . 
If the white man is the warrior he pretends , said the aged chief , let him strike nigher to the mark . 
Almost at the same instant , the rattling sound of the rifle was heard , as he suffered it to fall , contemptuously , to the earth . 
The first impression of so strange a scene was engrossing admiration . 
Then a low , but increasing murmur , ran through the multitude , and finally swelled into sounds that denoted a lively opposition in the sentiments of the spectators . 
While some openly testified their satisfaction at so unexampled dexterity , by far the larger portion of the tribe were inclined to believe the success of the shot was the result of accident . 
Heyward was not slow to confirm an opinion that was so favorable to his own pretensions . 
That the Huron is a liar , is very evident , returned Heyward , coolly you have yourself heard him asset you to be La Longue Carabine . 
It were impossible to say what violent assertion the stubborn Hawkeye would have next made , in his headlong wish to vindicate his identity , had not the aged Delaware once more interposed . 
The hawk which comes from the clouds can return when he will , he said give them the guns . 
This time the scout seized the rifle with avidity nor had Magua , though he watched the movements of the marksman with jealous eyes , any further cause for apprehension . 
It had been seen , already , that his skill was far from being contemptible , and he now resolved to put forth its nicest qualities . 
Had his life depended on the issue , the aim of Duncan could not have been more deliberate or guarded . 
The warriors uttered a common ejaculation of pleasure , and then turned their eyes , inquiringly , on the movements of his rival . 
When on a perfect level , it remained for a single moment , without tremor or variation , as though both man and rifle were carved in stone . 
During that stationary instant , it poured forth its contents , in a bright , glancing sheet of flame . 
Again the young Indians bounded forward but their hurried search and disappointed looks announced that no traces of the bullet were to be seen . 
Go ! said the old chief to the scout , in a tone of strong disgust thou art a wolf in the skin of a dog . 
I will talk to the 'Long Rifle' of the Yengeese . 
At this unexpected exhibition , a loud and vehement expression of pleasure burst from the mouth of every warrior present . 
It decided the question , and effectually established Hawkeye in the possession of his dangerous reputation . 
When the sudden and noisy commotion had a little subsided , the aged chief resumed his examination . 
We will know who can shut the ears of men . 
Brother , added the chief turning his eyes on Magua , the Delawares listen . 
Before opening his mouth , however , he bent his eyes slowly along the whole living boundary of earnest faces , as if to temper his expressions to the capacities of his audience . 
Then , filled with his own dark intentions , he spoke in the language of the Canadas , a tongue that he well knew was comprehended by most of his auditors . 
The Spirit that made men colored them differently , commenced the subtle Huron . 
Some are blacker than the sluggish bear . 
These He said should be slaves and He ordered them to work forever , like the beaver . 
Some He made with faces paler than the ermine of the forests and these He ordered to be traders dogs to their women , and wolves to their slaves . 
He gave this people the nature of the pigeon wings that never tire young , more plentiful than the leaves on the trees , and appetites to devour the earth . 
, and arms longer than the legs of the moose . 
His gluttony makes him sick . 
God gave him enough , and yet he wants all . 
Such are the pale faces . 
He gave them this island as He had made it , covered with trees , and filled with game . 
The wind made their clearings the sun and rain ripened their fruits and the snows came to tell them to be thankful . 
What need had they of roads to journey by ! They saw through the hills ! When the beavers worked , they lay in the shade , and looked on . 
The winds cooled them in summer in winter , skins kept them warm . 
If they fought among themselves , it was to prove that they were men . 
They were brave they were just they were happy . 
Here the speaker paused , and again looked around him to discover if his legend had touched the sympathies of his listeners . 
If the Great Spirit gave different tongues to his red children , he continued , in a low , still melancholy voice , it was that all animals might understand them . 
Some He placed among the snows , with their cousin , the bear . 
Some he placed near the setting sun , on the road to the happy hunting grounds . 
Some on the lands around the great fresh waters but to His greatest , and most beloved , He gave the sands of the salt lake . 
Do my brothers know the name of this favored people ? It was the Lenape ! exclaimed twenty eager voices in a breath . 
It was the Lenni Lenape , returned Magua , affecting to bend his head in reverence to their former greatness . 
It was the tribes of the Lenape ! The sun rose from water that was salt , and set in water that was sweet , and never hid himself from their eyes . 
My tongue is still for my heart is of lead . 
As the voice of the speaker suddenly ceased , every face and all eyes turned , by a common movement , toward the venerable Tamenund . 
From the moment that he took his seat , until the present instant , the lips of the patriarch had not severed , and scarcely a sign of life had escaped him . 
At the nicely graduated sound of Magua's voice , however , he betrayed some evidence of consciousness , and once or twice he even raised his head , as if to listen . 
Then he made an effort to rise , and being upheld by his supporters , he gained his feet , in a posture commanding by its dignity , while he tottered with weakness . 
It is a Wyandot , said Magua , stepping nigher to the rude platform on which the other stood a friend of Tamenund . 
A friend ! repeated the sage , on whose brow a dark frown settled , imparting a portion of that severity which had rendered his eye so terrible in middle age . 
Are the Mingoes rulers of the earth ? What brings a Huron in here ? Justice . 
His prisoners are with his brothers , and he comes for his own . 
Tamenund turned his head toward one of his supporters , and listened to the short explanation the man gave . 
Then , facing the applicant , he regarded him a moment with deep attention after which he said , in a low and reluctant voice Justice is the law of the great Manitou . 
My children , give the stranger food . 
Then , Huron , take thine own and depart . 
Against such a decree there was no Delaware sufficiently hardy to murmur , much less oppose himself . 
Perhaps , however , the manner of the scout would not have been so passive , had he fully comprehended the language in which the preceding dialogue had been conducted . 
Magua cast a look of triumph around the whole assembly before he proceeded to the execution of his purpose . 
Perceiving that the men were unable to offer any resistance , he turned his looks on her he valued most . 
Cora met his gaze with an eye so calm and firm , that his resolution wavered . 
Thou that hast lived long , and that hast seen the evil of the world , should know how to temper its calamities to the miserable . 
The eyes of the old man opened heavily , and he once more looked upward at the multitude . 
As the piercing tones of the suppliant swelled on his ears , they moved slowly in the direction of her person , and finally settled there in a steady gaze . 
Rising without assistance , and seemingly without an effort , he demanded , in a voice that startled its auditors by its firmness What art thou ? A woman . 
One of a hated race , it thou wilt a Yengee . 
But one who has never harmed thee , and who cannot harm thy people , if she would who asks for succor . 
Many parching summers are come and gone , continued the sage , since I drank of the water of my own rivers . 
The children of Minquon are the justest white men , but they were thirsty and they took it to themselves . 
We follow none , we covet nothing , answered Cora . 
Captives against our wills , have we been brought amongst you and we ask but permission to depart to our own in peace . 
Art thou not Tamenund the father , the judge , I had almost said , the prophet of this people ? I am Tamenund of many days . 
'Tis now some seven years that one of thy people was at the mercy of a white chief on the borders of this province . 
He claimed to be of the blood of the good and just Tamenund . 
Nay , nay I speak not of a time so very distant , but of favor shown to thy kindred by one of mine , within the memory of thy youngest warrior . 
Surely , surely , you forget it not . 
It was but yesterday , rejoined the aged man , with touching pathos , that the children of the Lenape were masters of the world . 
The fishes of the salt lake , the birds , the beasts , and the Mengee of the woods , owned them for Sagamores . 
Cora bowed her head in disappointment , and , for a bitter moment struggled with her chagrin . 
For myself I ask nothing . 
But yonder is one who has never known the weight of Heaven's displeasure until now . 
She is the daughter of an old and failing man , whose days are near their close . 
She has many , very many , to love her , and delight in her and she is too good , much too precious , to become the victim of that villain . 
I know that the pale faces are a proud and hungry race . 
I know that they claim not only to have the earth , but that the meanest of their color is better than the Sachems of the red man . 
But let them not boast before the face of the Manitou too loud . 
They entered the land at the rising , and may yet go off at the setting sun . 
I have often seen the locusts strip the leaves from the trees , but the season of blossoms has always come again . 
There is yet one of thine own people who has not been brought before thee before thou lettest the Huron depart in triumph , hear him speak . 
Observing Tamenund to look about him doubtingly , one of his companions said It is a snake a red skin in the pay of the Yengeese . 
We keep him for the torture . 
Let him come , returned the sage . 
Then the waving multitude opened and shut again , and Uncas stood in the living circle . 
But neither the presence in which he found himself , nor the exclusive attention that he attracted , in any manner disturbed the self possession of the young Mohican . 
But when , last in this haughty scrutiny , the person of Tamenund came under his glance , his eye became fixed , as though all other objects were already forgotten . 
Then , advancing with a slow and noiseless step up the area , he placed himself immediately before the footstool of the sage . 
Here he stood unnoted , though keenly observant himself , until one of the chiefs apprised the latter of his presence . 
With what tongue does the prisoner speak to the Manitou ? demanded the patriarch , without unclosing his eyes . 
Like his fathers , Uncas replied with the tongue of a Delaware . 
The effect was equally strong on the sage , though differently exhibited . 
The singing birds have opened their bills , returned Uncas , in the softest notes of his own musical voice and Tamenund has heard their song . 
The sage started , and bent his head aside , as if to catch the fleeting sounds of some passing melody . 
Does Tamenund dream ! he exclaimed . 
The false Delaware trembles lest he should hear the words of Tamenund , he said . 
'Tis a hound that howls , when the Yengeese show him a trail . 
The task might probably have been more difficult , had not a movement made by Tamenund indicated that he was again about to speak . 
Delaware ! resumed the sage , little art thou worthy of thy name . 
My people have not seen a bright sun in many winters and the warrior who deserts his tribe when hid in clouds is doubly a traitor . 
The law of the Manitou is just . 
It is so while the rivers run and the mountains stand , while the blossoms come and go on the trees , it must be so . 
He is thine , my children deal justly by him . 
Not a limb was moved , nor was a breath drawn louder and longer than common , until the closing syllable of this final decree had passed the lips of Tamenund . 
Then a cry of vengeance burst at once , as it might be , from the united lips of the nation a frightful augury of their ruthless intentions . 
In the midst of these prolonged and savage yells , a chief proclaimed , in a high voice , that the captive was condemned to endure the dreadful trial of torture by fire . 
The circle broke its order , and screams of delight mingled with the bustle and tumult of preparation . 
Throughout the whole of these trying moments , Uncas had alone preserved his serenity . 
He looked on the preparations with a steady eye , and when the tormentors came to seize him , he met them with a firm and upright attitude . 
One among them , if possible more fierce and savage than his fellows , seized the hunting shirt of the young warrior , and at a single effort tore it from his body . 
Then , with a yell of frantic pleasure , he leaped toward his unresisting victim and prepared to lead him to the stake . 
The eyeballs of the Delaware seemed to start from their sockets his mouth opened and his whole form became frozen in an attitude of amazement . 
Raising his hand with a slow and regulated motion , he pointed with a finger to the bosom of the captive . 
For a single instant Uncas enjoyed his triumph , smiling calmly on the scene . 
Uncas , the child of Uncas , is found ! Let the eyes of a dying eagle gaze on the rising sun . 
The youth stepped lightly , but proudly on the platform , where he became visible to the whole agitated and wondering multitude . 
Tamenund held him long at the length of his arm and read every turn in the fine lineaments of his countenance , with the untiring gaze of one who recalled days of happiness . 
Is Tamenund a boy ? at length the bewildered prophet exclaimed . 
None dared to answer , though all listened in breathless expectation of what might follow . 
Uncas , however , looking in his face with the fondness and veneration of a favored child , presumed on his own high and acknowledged rank , to reply . 
Four warriors of his race have lived and died , he said , since the friend of Tamenund led his people in battle . 
The blood of the turtle has been in many chiefs , but all have gone back into the earth from whence they came , except Chingachgook and his son . 
Then we were rulers and Sagamores over the land . 
But when a pale face was seen on every brook , we followed the deer back to the river of our nation . 
Few warriors of them all stayed to drink of the stream they loved . 
Then said my fathers , 'Here will we hunt . 
The waters of the river go into the salt lake . 
Our eyes are on the rising and not toward the setting sun . 
We know whence he comes , but we know not whither he goes . 
Uncas himself watched the effect of his brief explanation with intelligent eyes , and gradually dropped the air of authority he had assumed , as he perceived that his auditors were content . 
Then , permitting his looks to wander over the silent throng that crowded around the elevated seat of Tamenund , he first perceived Hawkeye in his bonds . 
The Indians silently obeyed , and once more they stood ranged in their circle , as before his appearance among them . 
Uncas took the scout by the hand , and led him to the feet of the patriarch . 
Father , he said , look at this pale face a just man , and the friend of the Delawares . 
Is he a son of Minquon ? Not so a warrior known to the Yengeese , and feared by the Maquas . 
What name has he gained by his deeds ? We call him Hawkeye , Uncas replied , using the Delaware phrase for his sight never fails . 
The Mingoes know him better by the death he gives their warriors with them he is 'The Long Rifle' . 
La Longue Carabine ! exclaimed Tamenund , opening his eyes , and regarding the scout sternly . 
My son has not done well to call him friend . 
I call him so who proves himself such , returned the young chief , with great calmness , but with a steady mien . 
If Uncas is welcome among the Delawares , then is Hawkeye with his friends . 
The pale face has slain my young men his name is great for the blows he has struck the Lenape . 
A low exclamation of applause passed among the warriors who exchanged looks with each other like men that first began to perceive their error . 
Where is the Huron ? demanded Tamenund . 
The just Tamenund , he said , will not keep what a Huron has lent . 
The panther may get into snares set by the women but he is strong , and knows how to leap through them . 
La Longue Carabine ? Laughs at the Mingoes . 
Go , Huron , ask your squaws the color of a bear . 
The stranger and white maiden that come into my camp together ? Should journey on an open path . 
And the woman that Huron left with my warriors ? Uncas made no reply . 
And the woman that the Mingo has brought into my camp ? repeated Tamenund , gravely . 
She is mine , cried Magua , shaking his hand in triumph at Uncas . 
Mohican , you know that she is mine . 
My son is silent , said Tamenund , endeavoring to read the expression of the face that the youth turned from him in sorrow . 
It is so , was the low answer . 
A short and impressive pause succeeded , during which it was very apparent with what reluctance the multitude admitted the justice of the Mingo's claim . 
At length the sage , on whom alone the decision depended , said , in a firm voice Huron , depart . 
As he came , just Tamenund , demanded the wily Magua , or with hands filled with the faith of the Delawares ? The wigwam of Le Renard Subtil is empty . 
Make him strong with his own . 
The aged man mused with himself for a time and then , bending his head toward one of his venerable companions , he asked Are my ears open ? It is true . 
Is this Mingo a chief ? The first in his nation . 
Girl , what wouldst thou ? A great warrior takes thee to wife . 
Go ! thy race will not end . 
Better , a thousand times , it should , exclaimed the horror struck Cora , than meet with such a degradation ! Huron , her mind is in the tents of her fathers . 
An unwilling maiden makes an unhappy wigwam . 
She speaks with the tongue of her people , returned Magua , regarding his victim with a look of bitter irony . 
She is of a race of traders , and will bargain for a bright look . 
Let Tamenund speak the words . 
Take you the wampum , and our love . 
Nothing hence but what Magua brought hither . 
Then depart with thine own . 
The Great Manitou forbids that a Delaware should be unjust . 
Hold , hold ! cried Duncan , springing forward Huron , have mercy ! her ransom shall make thee richer than any of thy people were ever yet known to be . 
Magua is a red skin he wants not the beads of the pale faces . 
Gold , silver , powder , lead all that a warrior needs shall be in thy wigwam all that becomes the greatest chief . 
The words of the Delaware are said , returned the sage , closing his eyes , and dropping back into his seat , alike wearied with his mental and his bodily exertion . 
Huron , I love you not nor can I say that any Mingo has ever received much favor at my hands . 
It is fair to conclude that , if this war does not soon end , many more of your warriors will meet me in the woods . 
Will 'The Long Rifle' give his life for the woman ? demanded Magua , hesitatingly for he had already made a motion toward quitting the place with his victim . 
No , no I have not said so much as that , returned Hawkeye , drawing back with suitable discretion , when he noted the eagerness with which Magua listened to his proposal . 
It would be an unequal exchange , to give a warrior , in the prime of his age and usefulness , for the best woman on the frontiers . 
I might consent to go into winter quarters , now at least six weeks afore the leaves will turn on condition you will release the maiden . 
Magua shook his head , and made an impatient sign for the crowd to open . 
Well , then , added the scout , with the musing air of a man who had not half made up his mind I will throw 'killdeer' into the bargain . 
Take the word of an experienced hunter , the piece has not its equal atween the provinces . 
Magua still disdained to reply , continuing his efforts to disperse the crowd . 
What is ordered must sooner or later arrive , continued Hawkeye , turning with a sad and humbled look to Uncas . 
As for me , sooner or later , I must die it is , therefore , fortunate there are but few to make my death howl . 
After all , it is likely the imps would have managed to master my scalp , so a day or two will make no great difference in the everlasting reckoning of time . 
Huron , I accept your offer release the woman . 
Come , he added , laying his hand too familiarly on the shoulder of his captive to urge her onward a Huron is no tattler we will go . 
I am your prisoner , and , at a fitting time shall be ready to follow , even to my death . 
But violence is unnecessary , she coldly said and immediately turning to Hawkeye , added Generous hunter ! from my soul I thank you . 
Your offer is vain , neither could it be accepted but still you may serve me , even more than in your own noble intention . 
Look at that drooping humbled child ! Abandon her not until you leave her in the habitations of civilized men . 
And , believe me , the blessing of a just and aged man has virtue in the sight of Heaven . 
You love her , Heyward that would conceal a thousand faults , though she had them . 
She is kind , gentle , sweet , good , as mortal may be . 
There is not a blemish in mind or person at which the proudest of you all would sicken . 
Ay , go , cried Duncan , placing Alice in the arms of an Indian girl go , Magua , go . 
these Delawares have their laws , which forbid them to detain you but I I have no such obligation . 
Go , malignant monster why do you delay ? It would be difficult to describe the expression with which Magua listened to this threat to follow . 
There was at first a fierce and manifest display of joy , and then it was instantly subdued in a look of cunning coldness . 
The words are open , he was content with answering , 'The Open Hand' can come . 
Hold , cried Hawkeye , seizing Duncan by the arm , and detaining him by violence you know not the craft of the imp . 
He is now in the upper branches of the hemlock . 
Your path is short and open . 
When he is seen above the trees , there will be men on your trail . 
I hear a crow ! exclaimed Magua , with a taunting laugh . 
Go ! he added , shaking his hand at the crowd , which had slowly opened to admit his passage . 
Where are the petticoats of the Delawares ! Let them send their arrows and their guns to the Wyandots they shall have venison to eat , and corn to hoe . 
Kill the poys and the luggage ! 'Tis expressly against the law of arms 'tis as arrant a piece of knavery , mark you now , as can be offered in the 'orld . 
After which , Tamenund and Alice were removed , and the women and children were ordered to disperse . 
During the momentous hour that succeeded , the encampment resembled a hive of troubled bees , who only awaited the appearance and example of their leader to take some distant and momentous flight . 
He was soon followed by another , who stripped the sapling of its branches , leaving it a naked and blazed trunk . 
A tree which has been partially or entirely stripped of its bark is said , in the language of the country , to be blazed . 
The term is strictly English , for a horse is said to be blazed when it has a white mark . 
In the heavens , in the clouds , oh , I see Many spots many dark , many red In the heavens , oh , I see Many clouds . 
The last was like the first , humble and imploring . 
Three times did he repeat this song , and as often did he encircle the post in his dance . 
Warrior after warrior enlisted in the dance , until all of any renown and authority were numbered in its mazes . 
The spectacle now became wildly terrific the fierce looking and menacing visages of the chiefs receiving additional power from the appalling strains in which they mingled their guttural tones . 
Just then Uncas struck his tomahawk deep into the post , and raised his voice in a shout , which might be termed his own battle cry . 
The act announced that he had assumed the chief authority in the intended expedition . 
It was a signal that awakened all the slumbering passions of the nation . 
Some were scalped some received the keen and trembling axe and others suffered by thrusts from the fatal knife . 
In short , the manifestations of zeal and fierce delight were so great and unequivocal , that the expedition was declared to be a war of the nation . 
The whole face of the encampment was instantly changed . 
The warriors , who were already armed and painted , became as still as if they were incapable of any uncommon burst of emotion . 
None , however , was idle . 
In the meantime , Duncan saw Alice to a place of safety , and then sought the scout , with a countenance that denoted how eagerly he also panted for the approaching contest . 
But Hawkeye was too much accustomed to the war song and the enlistments of the natives , to betray any interest in the passing scene . 
He merely cast an occasional look at the number and quality of the warriors , who , from time to time , signified their readiness to accompany Uncas to the field . 
In this particular he was soon satisfied for , as has been already seen , the power of the young chief quickly embraced every fighting man in the nation . 
In selecting another to perform the office of reclaiming his highly prized rifle , the scout had lost sight of none of his habitual caution . 
He knew that Magua had not come unattended , and he also knew that Huron spies watched the movements of their new enemies , along the whole boundary of the woods . 
When Heyward joined him , the scout was coolly awaiting the result of this experiment . 
He had actually gained the crags , and was leaping up their sides with incredible activity , when a shot from the woods showed how accurate had been the judgment of the scout . 
The boy answered it with a feeble but contemptuous shout and immediately a second bullet was sent after him from another part of the cover . 
Notwithstanding the lively interest Hawkeye had taken in the fate of his messenger , he received killdeer with a satisfaction that , momentarily , drove all other recollections from his mind . 
The urchin looked proudly up in his face , but made no reply . 
I know many young men that have taken scalps who cannot show such a mark as this . 
It had , however , served to apprise the Delawares of the position and the intentions of their enemies . 
Accordingly a party of adventurers , better suited to the task than the weak though spirited boy , was ordered to dislodge the skulkers . 
The duty was soon performed for most of the Hurons retired of themselves when they found they had been discovered . 
The Delawares followed to a sufficient distance from their own encampment , and then halted for orders , apprehensive of being led into an ambush . 
As both parties secreted themselves , the woods were again as still and quiet as a mild summer morning and deep solitude could render them . 
The calm but still impatient Uncas now collected his chiefs , and divided his power . 
He presented Hawkeye as a warrior , often tried , and always found deserving of confidence . 
When he found his friend met with a favorable reception , he bestowed on him the command of twenty men , like himself , active , skillful and resolute . 
He gave the Delawares to understand the rank of Heyward among the troops of the Yengeese , and then tendered to him a trust of equal authority . 
But Duncan declined the charge , professing his readiness to serve as a volunteer by the side of the scout . 
After this disposition , the young Mohican appointed various native chiefs to fill the different situations of responsibility , and , the time pressing , he gave forth the word to march . 
He was cheerfully , but silently obeyed by more than two hundred men . 
Here a halt was ordered , and the chiefs were assembled to hold a whispering council . 
At this meeting divers plans of operation were suggested , though none of a character to meet the wishes of their ardent leader . 
When within a hundred yards , however , of the cover behind which the Delaware council had assembled , the stranger hesitated , appeared uncertain what course to take , and finally halted . 
All eyes were turned now on Uncas , as if seeking directions how to proceed . 
Hawkeye , said the young chief , in a low voice , he must never speak to the Hurons again . 
His time has come , said the laconic scout , thrusting the long barrel of his rifle through the leaves , and taking his deliberate and fatal aim . 
But , instead of pulling the trigger , he lowered the muzzle again , and indulged himself in a fit of his peculiar mirth . 
If sounds have not lost their virtue , I'll soon have a discourse with the honest fellow , and that in a voice he'll find more agreeable than the speech of 'killdeer' . 
, and , consequently , having once before heard the sounds , he now knew whence they proceeded . 
I wonder what the Hurons will think of that ! said the scout , laughing , as he took his companion by the arm , and urged him toward the rear . 
Now give us the history of the Mingo inventions in natural English , and without any ups and downs of voice . 
The heathen are abroad in goodly numbers , said David and , I fear , with evil intent . 
Your ears might not have profited much by the exchange , had you been quicker of foot , returned the scout a little dryly . 
Uncas cast a glance along the range of trees which concealed his own band and mentioned the name of Magua ? Is among them . 
You shall then hear the whoop from that quarter with this wind one may easily send it a mile . 
There may be no great learning , major , in this plan , but with courage and patience it can all be done . 
I like it very much , cried Duncan , who saw that the release of Cora was the primary object in the mind of the scout I like it much . 
Let it be instantly attempted . 
CHAPTER But plagues shall spread , and funeral fires increase , Till the great king , without a ransom paid , To her own Chrysa send the black eyed maid . 
But Hawkeye , whose duty led him foremost in the adventure , knew the character of those with whom he was about to contend too well to trust the treacherous quiet . 
Then he added , pointing in the direction of the place he mentioned , the two make enough for the beavers . 
I thought as much , returned the scout , glancing his eye upward at the opening in the tree tops , from the course it takes , and the bearings of the mountains . 
Men , we will keep within the cover of its banks till we scent the Hurons . 
Hawkeye , who comprehended their meaning glances , turned and perceived that his party had been followed thus far by the singing master . 
It may not be five , it cannot be thirty minutes , before we tread on the body of a Huron , living or dead . 
The scout hesitated , as if weighing the chances of such a strange enlistment in his mind before he answered You know not the use of any we'pon . 
You carry no rifle and believe me , what the Mingoes take they will freely give again . 
With this ancient instrument of war have I practised much in my youth , and peradventure the skill has not entirely departed from me . 
Remember , added the scout , tapping his own head significantly on that spot where Gamut was yet sore , we come to fight , and not to musickate . 
Until the general whoop is given , nothing speaks but the rifle . 
David nodded , as much to signify his acquiescence with the terms and then Hawkeye , casting another observant glance over this followers made the signal to proceed . 
Their route lay , for the distance of a mile , along the bed of the water course . 
Though protected from any great danger of observation by the precipitous banks , and the thick shrubbery which skirted the stream , no precaution known to an Indian attack was neglected . 
Their march was , however , unmolested , and they reached the point where the lesser stream was lost in the greater , without the smallest evidence that their progress had been noted . 
Here the scout again halted , to consult the signs of the forest . 
Hawkeye had , in truth , in these few words , given no bad description of the prospect that now lay in their front . 
A few long , low , and moss covered piles were scattered among them , like the memorials of a former and long departed generation . 
All these minute particulars were noted by the scout , with a gravity and interest that they probably had never before attracted . 
Luckily the Hurons had already fallen back , and he was safe from their fire . 
Heyward threw himself among the combatants , and imitating the necessary caution of his companions , he made quick discharges with his own rifle . 
The contest now grew warm and stationary . 
But the chances were gradually growing unfavorable to Hawkeye and his band . 
The quick sighted scout perceived his danger without knowing how to remedy it . 
The effects of this attack were instantaneous , and to the scout and his friends greatly relieving . 
Animating his followers by his voice , and his own example , Hawkeye then gave the word to bear down upon their foes . 
The charge , in that rude species of warfare , consisted merely in pushing from cover to cover , nigher to the enemy and in this maneuver he was instantly and successfully obeyed . 
You may here see the philosophy of an Indian fight . 
It consists mainly in ready hand , a quick eye and a good cover . 
Now , if you had a company of the Royal Americans here , in what manner would you set them to work in this business ? The bayonet would make a road . 
Ay , there is white reason in what you say but a man must ask himself , in this wilderness , how many lives he can spare . 
No horse , continued the scout , shaking his head , like one who mused horse , I am ashamed to say must sooner or later decide these scrimmages . 
The brutes are better than men , and to horse must we come at last . 
Put a shodden hoof on the moccasin of a red skin , and , if his rifle be once emptied , he will never stop to load it again . 
The American forest admits of the passage of horses , there being little underbrush , and few tangled brakes . 
The plan of Hawkeye is the one which has always proved the most successful in the battles between the whites and the Indians . 
As to rush , I little relish such a measure for a scalp or two must be thrown away in the attempt . 
Then , turning with a prompt and decided air , he called aloud to his Indians , in their own language . 
His words were answered by a shout and , at a given signal , each warrior made a swift movement around his particular tree . 
The sight of so many dark bodies , glancing before their eyes at the same instant , drew a hasty and consequently an ineffectual fire from the Hurons . 
Without stopping to breathe , the Delawares leaped in long bounds toward the wood , like so many panthers springing upon their prey . 
Hawkeye was in front , brandishing his terrible rifle and animating his followers by his example . 
But the shock was insufficient to repel the impetus of the charge . 
The Delawares broke into the cover with the ferocity of their natures and swept away every trace of resistance by the fury of the onset . 
There speaks the Sagamore ! shouted Hawkeye , answering the cry with his own stentorian voice we have them now in face and back ! The effect on the Hurons was instantaneous . 
Many fell , in making the experiment , under the bullets and the blows of the pursuing Delawares . 
We shall not pause to detail the meeting between the scout and Chingachgook , or the more touching interview that Duncan held with Munro . 
Chingachgook assumed the station to which his birth and experience gave him so distinguished a claim , with the grave dignity that always gives force to the mandates of a native warrior . 
The warriors , who had breathed themselves freely in the preceding struggle , were now posted on a bit of level ground , sprinkled with trees in sufficient numbers to conceal them . 
The land fell away rather precipitately in front , and beneath their eyes stretched , for several miles , a narrow , dark , and wooded vale . 
It was through this dense and dark forest that Uncas was still contending with the main body of the Hurons . 
The Mohican and his friends advanced to the brow of the hill , and listened , with practised ears , to the sounds of the combat . 
They will incline into the hollow , where the cover is thicker , said the scout , and that will leave us well on their flank . 
Go , Sagamore you will hardly be in time to give the whoop , and lead on the young men . 
I will fight this scrimmage with warriors of my own color . 
You know me , Mohican not a Huron of them all shall cross the swell , into your rear , without the notice of 'killdeer' . 
Hawkeye and his three companions withdrew a few paces to a shelter , and awaited the issue with calmness that nothing but great practise could impart in such a scene . 
It was not long before the reports of the rifles began to lose the echoes of the woods , and to sound like weapons discharged in the open air . 
These were soon joined by others , until a long line of swarthy figures was to be seen clinging to the cover with the obstinacy of desperation . 
Heyward began to grow impatient , and turned his eyes anxiously in the direction of Chingachgook . 
The time has come for the Delaware to strike' ! said Duncan . 
Not so , not so , returned the scout when he scents his friends , he will let them know that he is here . 
See , see the knaves are getting in that clump of pines , like bees settling after their flight . 
The Hurons staggered , deserting the center of their line , and Uncas issued from the forest through the opening they left , at the head of a hundred warriors . 
Waving his hands right and left , the young chief pointed out the enemy to his followers , who separated in pursuit . 
The war now divided , both wings of the broken Hurons seeking protection in the woods again , hotly pressed by the victorious warriors of the Lenape . 
A minute might have passed , but the sounds were already receding in different directions , and gradually losing their distinctness beneath the echoing arches of the woods . 
Magua was conspicuous in this party , both by his fierce and savage mien , and by the air of haughty authority he yet maintained . 
In his eagerness to expedite the pursuit , Uncas had left himself nearly alone but the moment his eye caught the figure of Le Subtil , every other consideration was forgotten . 
Raising his cry of battle , which recalled some six or seven warriors , and reckless of the disparity of their numbers , he rushed upon his enemy . 
Le Renard , who watched the movement , paused to receive him with secret joy . 
The Huron instantly turned , and commenced a rapid retreat up the ascent . 
There was no time for greetings or congratulations for Uncas , though unconscious of the presence of his friends , continued the pursuit with the velocity of the wind . 
But , ere such a calamity could happen , the pursuers and pursued entered the Wyandot village , within striking distance of each other . 
Excited by the presence of their dwellings , and tired of the chase , the Hurons now made a stand , and fought around their council lodge with the fury of despair . 
The onset and the issue were like the passage and destruction of a whirlwind . 
But Uncas , who had vainly sought him in the melee , bounded forward in pursuit Hawkeye , Heyward and David still pressing on his footsteps . 
Hawkeye , who had only forborne to fire in tenderness to Uncas , raised a shout of success , and proclaimed aloud that now they were certain of their game . 
The pursuers dashed into the long and narrow entrance , in time to catch a glimpse of the retreating forms of the Hurons . 
Their passage through the natural galleries and subterraneous apartments of the cavern was preceded by the shrieks and cries of hundreds of women and children . 
The place , seen by its dim and uncertain light , appeared like the shades of the infernal regions , across which unhappy ghosts and savage demons were flitting in multitudes . 
Still Uncas kept his eye on Magua , as if life to him possessed but a single object . 
Heyward and the scout still pressed on his rear , actuated , though possibly in a less degree , by a common feeling . 
'Tis Cora ! exclaimed Heyward , in a voice in which horror and delight were wildly mingled . 
Cora ! Cora ! echoed Uncas , bounding forward like a deer . 
'Tis the maiden ! shouted the scout . 
Courage , lady we come ! we come ! The chase was renewed with a diligence rendered tenfold encouraging by this glimpse of the captive . 
But the way was rugged , broken , and in spots nearly impassable . 
Uncas abandoned his rifle , and leaped forward with headlong precipitation . 
At this moment the forms of all four were strongly drawn against an opening in the sky , and they disappeared . 
The course lay up the ascent , and still continued hazardous and laborious . 
In this manner , rocks , precipices and difficulties were surmounted in an incredibly short space , that at another time , and under other circumstances , would have been deemed almost insuperable . 
But the impetuous young man were rewarded by finding that , encumbered with Cora , the Hurons were losing ground in the race . 
Kill me if thou wilt , detestable Huron I will go no further . 
The supporters of the maiden raised their ready tomahawks with the impious joy that fiends are thought to take in mischief , but Magua stayed the uplifted arms . 
The form of the Huron trembled in every fibre , and he raised his arm on high , but dropped it again with a bewildered air , like one who doubted . 
Magua recoiled a step and one of his assistants , profiting by the chance , sheathed his own knife in the bosom of Cora . 
The Huron sprang like a tiger on his offending and already retreating country man , but the falling form of Uncas separated the unnatural combatants . 
But when the hunter reached the scene of the ruthless massacre , the ledge was tenanted only by the dead . 
His keen eye took a single look at the victims , and then shot its glances over the difficulties of the ascent in his front . 
A form stood at the brow of the mountain , on the very edge of the giddy height , with uplifted arms , in an awful attitude of menace . 
A single bound would carry him to the brow of the precipice , and assure his safety . 
Without exhausting himself with fruitless efforts , the cunning Magua suffered his body to drop to the length of his arms , and found a fragment for his feet to rest on . 
Then , summoning all his powers , he renewed the attempt , and so far succeeded as to draw his knees on the edge of the mountain . 
It was now , when the body of his enemy was most collected together , that the agitated weapon of the scout was drawn to his shoulder . 
The surrounding rocks themselves were not steadier than the piece became , for the single instant that it poured out its contents . 
The arms of the Huron relaxed , and his body fell back a little , while his knees still kept their position . 
Turning a relentless look on his enemy , he shook a hand in grim defiance . 
CHAPTER They fought , like brave men , long and well , They piled that ground with Moslem slain , They conquered but Bozzaris fell , Bleeding at every vein . 
Halleck The sun found the Lenape , on the succeeding day , a nation of mourners . 
In short , any eye at all practised in the signs of a frontier warfare might easily have traced all those unerring evidences of the ruthless results which attend an Indian vengeance . 
Still , the sun rose on the Lenape a nation of mourners . 
No shouts of success , no songs of triumph , were heard , in rejoicings for their victory . 
Pride and exultation were supplanted by humility , and the fiercest of human passions was already succeeded by the most profound and unequivocal demonstrations of grief . 
Each eye was riveted on the center of that ring , which contained the objects of so much and of so common an interest . 
Her form was concealed in many wrappers of the same simple manufacture , and her face was shut forever from the gaze of men . 
At her feet was seated the desolate Munro . 
Heyward was also nigh , supporting himself against a tree , and endeavoring to keep down those sudden risings of sorrow that it required his utmost manhood to subdue . 
But sad and melancholy as this group may easily be imagined , it was far less touching than another , that occupied the opposite space of the same area . 
During the long period that the tribe had thus been collected , the Mohican warrior had kept a steady , anxious look on the cold and senseless countenance of his son . 
The day was drawing to the close of its first quarter , and yet had the multitude maintained its breathing stillness since its dawn . 
The patience and forbearance of Indian fortitude could alone support such an appearance of abstraction , as seemed now to have turned each dark and motionless figure into stone . 
You see him not yet His judgments are before you . 
Let your hearts be open and your spirits tell no lie . 
Men of the Lenape ! the face of the Manitou is behind a cloud . 
As the immediate effect , however , gradually passed away , a low murmur of voices commenced a sort of chant in honor of the dead . 
The sounds were those of females , and were thrillingly soft and wailing . 
But , in the milder moments of their plaint , these emblems of purity and sweetness were cast back to their places , with every sign of tenderness and regret . 
She reminded him of the mother who bore him , and dwelt forcibly on the happiness she must feel in possessing such a son . 
They admonished him to be kind to her , and to have consideration for her ignorance of those arts which were so necessary to the comfort of a warrior like himself . 
After which , others again , in due succession , spoke to the maiden herself , in the low , soft language of tenderness and love . 
They exhorted her to be of cheerful mind , and to fear nothing for her future welfare . 
A hunter would be her companion , who knew how to provide for her smallest wants and a warrior was at her side who was able to protect he against every danger . 
They promised that her path should be pleasant , and her burden light . 
They advised her to be attentive to the wants of her companion , and never to forget the distinction which the Manitou had so wisely established between them . 
Then , in a wild burst of their chant they sang with united voices the temper of the Mohican's mind . 
They pronounced him noble , manly and generous all that became a warrior , and all that a maid might love . 
Then , with another transition in voice and subject , allusions were made to the virgin who wept in the adjacent lodge . 
Still they denied her no need her rare charms might properly claim . 
The Delawares themselves listened like charmed men and it was very apparent , by the variations of their speaking countenances , how deep and true was their sympathy . 
Even David was not reluctant to lend his ears to the tones of voices so sweet and long ere the chant was ended , his gaze announced that his soul was enthralled . 
Happily for the self command of both Heyward and Munro , they knew not the meaning of the wild sounds they heard . 
Chingachgook was a solitary exception to the interest manifested by the native part of the audience . 
His look never changed throughout the whole of the scene , nor did a muscle move in his rigid countenance , even at the wildest or the most pathetic parts of the lamentation . 
Thou art gone , youthful warrior , but a hundred Wyandots are clearing the briers from thy path to the world of the spirits . 
The tongue of Uttawa is weak , he added , looking about him with a melancholy gaze , and his heart exceeding heavy . 
When each had ended , another deep and breathing silence reigned in all the place . 
The lips of Chingachgook had so far parted , as to announce that it was the monody of the father . 
But they listened in vain . 
A signal was given , by one of the elder chiefs , to the women who crowded that part of the circle near which the body of Cora lay . 
At length the scout , who alone understood their habits , said , in their own language My daughters have done well the white men thank them . 
The females stood modestly aside , and , from having been the principal actors in the scene , they now became the meek and attentive observers of that which followed . 
During the time David occupied in pouring out the pious feelings of his spirit in this manner , not a sign of surprise , nor a look of impatience , escaped them . 
Excited by the scene he had just witnessed , and perhaps influenced by his own secret emotions , the master of song exceeded his usual efforts . 
He ended the anthem , as he had commenced it , in the midst of a grave and solemn stillness . 
Munro seemed sensible that the time was come for him to exert what is , perhaps , the greatest effort of which human nature is capable . 
He bared his gray locks , and looked around the timid and quiet throng by which he was encircled , with a firm and collected countenance . 
Then , motioning with his hand for the scout to listen , he said Say to these kind and gentle females , that a heart broken and failing man returns them his thanks . 
The scout listened to the tremulous voice in which the veteran delivered these words , and shook his head slowly when they were ended , as one who doubted their efficacy . 
Then turning to the women , he made such a communication of the other's gratitude as he deemed most suited to the capacities of his listeners . 
I understand you , sir , returned Munro , with a voice of forced firmness I understand you . 
It is the will of Heaven , and I submit . 
Heyward gladly obeyed a summons that took them from a spot where , each instant , he felt his self control was about to desert him . 
Then , gladly throwing himself into the saddle , he spurred his charger to the side of the litter , whence law and stifled sobs alone announced the presence of Alice . 
Neither were the secondary actors in these momentous incidents forgotten . 
But these were events of a time later than that which concerns our tale . 
Deserted by all of his color , Hawkeye returned to the spot where his sympathies led him , with a force that no ideal bond of union could destroy . 
He was just in time to catch a parting look of the features of Uncas , whom the Delawares were already inclosing in his last vestment of skins . 
They paused to permit the longing and lingering gaze of the sturdy woodsman , and when it was ended , the body was enveloped , never to be unclosed again . 
The movement , like the feeling , had been simultaneous and general . 
The same grave expression of grief , the same rigid silence , and the same deference to the principal mourner , were observed around the place of interment as have been already described . 
The body was deposited in an attitude of repose , facing the rising sun , with the implements of war and of the chase at hand , in readiness for the final journey . 
The manual rites then ceased and all present reverted to the more spiritual part of the ceremonies . 
Chingachgook became once more the object of the common attention . 
He had not yet spoken , and something consolatory and instructive was expected from so renowned a chief on an occasion of such interest . 
His firmly compressed and expressive lips then severed , and for the first time during the long ceremonies his voice was distinctly audible . 
Who can deny it ? The Manitou had need of such a warrior , and He has called him away . 
As for me , the son and the father of Uncas , I am a blazed pine , in a clearing of the pale faces . 
My race has gone from the shores of the salt lake and the hills of the Delawares . 
The gifts of our colors may be different , but God has so placed us as to journey in the same path . 
I have no kin , and I may also say , like you , no people . 
It is enough , he said . 
Go , children of the Lenape , the anger of the Manitou is not done . 
Why should Tamenund stay ? The pale faces are masters of the earth , and the time of the red men has not yet come again . 
My day has been too long . 
