The Fortunes Misfortunes of the Famous Moll Flanders c . 
, Twelve Year a Thief , Eight Year a Transported Felon in Virginia , at last grew Rich , liv'd Honest , and dies a Penitent . 
Written from her own Memorandums . 
To this purpose some of the vicious part of her life , which could not be modestly told , is quite left out , and several other parts are very much shortened . 
It is suggested there cannot be the same life , the same brightness and beauty , in relating the penitent part as is in the criminal part . 
There is in this story abundance of delightful incidents , and all of them usefully applied . 
There is an agreeable turn artfully given them in the relating , that naturally instructs the reader , either one way or other . 
None can , without being guilty of manifest injustice , cast any reproach upon it , or upon our design in publishing it . 
Her getting a parcel from a hare brained wench at the coaches in St . 
But , as I have said , these are things too long to bring in here , so neither can I make a promise of the coming out by themselves . 
But the case was otherwise here . 
My mother was convicted of felony for a certain petty theft scarce worth naming , viz . 
having an opportunity of borrowing three pieces of fine holland of a certain draper in Cheapside . 
The circumstances are too long to repeat , and I have heard them related so many ways , that I can scarce be certain which is the right account . 
had ordered that I should go to service . 
'prithee , what dost cry for ? 'Because they will take me away , says I , 'and put me to service , and I can't work housework . 
When she saw that I was not pacified yet , she began to be angry with me . 
'Why , what ? said she 'is the girl mad ? What would you be a gentlewoman ? 'Yes , says I , and cried heartily till I roard out again . 
This set the old gentlewoman a laughing at me , as you may be sure it would . 
'Why , what can you earn ? says she 'what can you get at your work ? 'Threepence , said I , 'when I spin , and fourpence when I work plain work . 
And this I said in such a poor petitioning tone , that it made the poor woman's heart yearn to me , as she told me afterwards . 
'I will work harder , then , says I , 'and you shall have it all . 
'Poor child ! it won't keep you , says she 'it will hardly keep you in victuals . 
'Then I will have no victuals , says I , again very innocently 'let me but live with you . 
'Why , can you live without victuals ? says she . 
'Yes , again says I , very much like a child , you may be sure , and still I cried heartily . 
'Come , says she , 'you shan't go to service you shall live with me' and this pacified me for the present . 
He was so pleased with it , that he would call his lady and his two daughters to hear it , and it made mirth enough among them , you may be sure . 
'Nay , says she , 'the child may come to be a gentlewoman for aught anybody knows she has a gentlewoman's hand , says she . 
About the time that I was fourteen years and a quarter old , my good nurse , mother I rather to call her , fell sick and died . 
However , the daughter was so honest afterwards as to give it me , though at first she used me cruelly about it . 
So I went with them , bag and baggage , and with a glad heart , you may be sure . 
I had with all these the common vanity of my sex , viz . 
But that which I was too vain of was my ruin , or rather my vanity was the cause of it . 
His sisters would return softly to him , 'Hush , brother , she will hear you she is but in the next room . 
'What makes you talk so , brother ? says the lady . 
'Why , says he , 'we have been talking of her below stairs this half hour . 
'Well , says his sister , 'you can say no harm of her , that I am sure , so 'tis no matter what you have been talking about . 
'I wonder at you , brother , says the sister . 
Her younger brother , who was by , cried , 'Hold , sister , you run too fast I am an exception to your rule . 
I assure you , if I find a woman so accomplished as you talk of , I say , I assure you , I would not trouble myself about the money . 
'Oh , says the sister , 'but you will take care not to fancy one , then , without the money . 
'You don't know that neither , says the brother . 
His words , I must confess , fired my blood all my spirits flew about my heart and put me into disorder enough , which he might easily have seen in my face . 
However , nothing else passed at that time it was but a sur prise , and when he was gone I soon recovered myself again . 
I said little to him again , but easily discovered that I was a fool , and that I did not in the least perceive what he meant . 
I was more confounded with the money than I was before with the love , and began to be so elevated that I scarce knew the ground I stood on . 
And first , when he entered the room , he turned about and shut the door . 
'Well , my dear , says he , ''tis good to be sure , however' and so he sits down , and we began to talk . 
It will not be strange if I now began to think , but alas ! it was but with very little solid reflection . 
I had a most unbounded stock of vanity and pride , and but a very little stock of virtue . 
Thus I gave up myself to a readiness of being ruined without the least concern and am a fair memento to all young women whose vanity prevails over their virtue . 
Nothing was ever so stupid on both sides . 
As for the gold , I spent whole hours in looking upon it I told the guineas over and over a thousand times a day . 
But as the devil is an unwearied tempter , so he never fails to find opportunity for that wickedness he invites to . 
Accordingly , after dinner , he very gravely says to me , his sisters being all by , 'Mrs . 
Betty , I must ask a favour of you . 
'What's that ? says his second sister . 
'Nay , sister , says he very gravely , 'if you can't spare Mrs. Betty to day , any other time will do . 
Yes , they said , they could spare her well enough , and the sister begged pardon for asking , which they did but of mere course , without any meaning . 
'Alas ! says he aloud , 'there's all my mirth spoiled at once sir W has sent his coach for me , and desires to speak with me upon some earnest business . 
I said nothing , but made a curtsy , as if I had done so to what he said in public . 
'But what , my dear ? says he . 
'And I'll give you such another , says he , 'every year till I marry you . 
But things did not end here . 
I went back to the town , did the business he publicly directed me to , and was at home before anybody thought me long . 
I was now confounded , and driven to such an extremity as the like was never known at least not to me . 
I resisted the proposal with obstinacy and now I began to arm myself with arguments . 
I saw the cloud , though I did not foresee the storm . 
After some time the younger gentleman took an opportunity to tell me that the kindness he had for me had got vent in the family . 
He did not charge me with it , he said , for he know well enough which way it came out . 
But I was now in a great strait , and knew not what to do . 
The main difficulty was this the younger brother not only laid close siege to me , but suffered it to be seen . 
This grew so public that the whole house talked of it , and his mother reproved him for it , and their carriage to me appeared quite altered . 
He told me with great tenderness , that let it be what it would , I should not let it trouble me , for he would protect me from all the world . 
'What is it , then ? says he . 
With which I fell to tears , and could say nothing to him at all . 
He strove to pacify me all he could , but began at last to be very pressing upon me to tell what it was . 
I told him how far I had resisted him , and told him how sincere and honourable his offers were . 
This discourse surprised him indeed very much . 
I seemed to start at his saying I should not give him my consent . 
to repeat all their discourse to me , which , as near as I can remember , was to the purpose following . 
He told him he heard strange news of him since he went , viz . 
that he made love to Mrs. Betty . 
'Well , says his brother a little angrily , 'and so I do . 
But I find they do concern themselves about it , and that they have used the poor girl ill about it , which I should take as done to myself . 
'Whom do you mean by THEY ? says Robin . 
'I mean my mother and the girls , says the elder brother . 
'But hark ye , says his brother , 'are you in earnest ? Do you really love this girl ? You may be free with me , you know . 
I believe the girl will not deny me . 
'Ay ! , said I , 'does he think I cannot deny him ? But he shall find I can deny him , for all that . 
'Well , my dear , says he , 'but let me give you the whole story as it went on between us , and then say what you will . 
Then he went on and told me that he replied thus 'But , brother , you know she has nothing , and you may have several ladies with good fortunes . 
''Tis no matter for that , said Robin 'I love the girl , and I will never please my pocket in marrying , and not please my fancy . 
'And so , my dear , adds he , 'there is no opposing him . 
'Why , says I , smiling , 'I can stop all their mouths at one clap by telling him , and them too , that I am married already to his elder brother . 
He smiled a little too at the word , but I could see it startled him , and he could not hide the disorder it put him into . 
'No , no , says I pleasantly , 'I am not so fond of letting the secret come out without your consent . 
When I was fully recovered he began again . 
I could not deny a word of this , and had nothing to say to it in general . 
'Your dear whore , says I , 'you would have said if you had gone on , and you might as well have said it but I understand you . 
You know and cannot but remember that these have been your own words to me . 
I found this was a little too close upon him , but I made it up in what follows . 
'Why , then , my dear , says he , 'we have no time to talk further now . 
Consider of it , and think closely about it I cannot but be of the opinion still , that it will be the best course you can take . 
They had on this occasion a squabble one day about me at table , that had like to have put the whole family in an uproar , and for some time did so . 
They happened to be all at table but the father as for me , I was ill , and in my chamber . 
'Alas , says the old lady , 'that poor girl ! I am afraid she will never be well . 
'Well ! says the elder brother , 'how should Mrs. Betty be well ? They say she is in love . 
'I believe nothing of it , says the old gentlewoman . 
'Why , sister , you must acknowledge she is very handsome , says the elder brother . 
'Ay , and a great deal handsomer than you , sister , says Robin , 'and that's your mortification . 
'I would she was in love with me , says Robin 'I'd quickly put her out of her pain . 
So there was her mouth stopped . 
'I find , says the eldest sister , 'if Betty is not in love , my brother is . 
Robin replied , that was business for the master and mistress of the family , who where not to be taught by one that had so little judgment as his eldest sister . 
It ran up a great deal farther the sister scolded , Robin rallied and bantered , but poor Betty lost ground by it extremely in the family . 
I heard of it , and I cried heartily , and the old lady came up to me , somebody having told her that I was so much concerned about it . 
I told her I would , with all my heart , and with the utmost plainness and sincerity . 
Why , then , the question was , whether there way anything between her son Robert and me . 
I told her I lover her hugely , says he , 'but I could never make the jade believe I was in earnest . 
'Well , says the mother , 'then there's one son lost' and she said it in a very mournful tone , as one greatly concerned at it . 
'I hope not , madam , says Robin 'no man is lost when a good wife has found him . 
'Why , but , child , says the old lady , 'she is a beggar . 
'Why , then , madam , she has the more need of charity , says Robin 'I'll take her off the hands of the parish , and she and I'll beg together . 
'It's bad jesting with such things , says the mother . 
'I don't jest , madam , says Robin . 
'We'll come and beg your pardon , madam and your blessing , madam , and my father's . 
'This is all out of the way , son , says the mother . 
'If you are in earnest you are undone . 
'That's a fine tale , indeed she is not so far out of her senses neither . 
Mrs. Betty is no fool , says the younger sister . 
'Do you think she has learnt to say No , any more than other people ? 'No , Mrs. Mirth wit , says Robin , 'Mrs . 
Betty's no fool but Mrs. Betty may be engaged some other way , and what then ? 'Nay , says the eldest sister , 'we can say nothing to that . 
Who must it be to , then ? She is never out of the doors it must be between you . 
'I have nothing to say to that , says Robin . 
'I have been examined enough there's my brother . 
If it must be between us , go to work with him . 
This stung the elder brother to the quick , and he concluded that Robin had discovered something . 
However , he kept himself from appearing disturbed . 
'No , says the eldest sister , 'I dare answer for my brother he knows the world better . 
Thus the discourse ended , but it left the elder brother quite confounded . 
At last he was so perplexed that he was quite desperate , and resolved he would come into my chamber and see me , whatever came of it . 
In order to do this , he contrived it so , that one day after dinner , watching his eldest sister till he could see her go upstairs , he runs after her . 
So she ran up to the door and gave me notice , and presently called to him again . 
'Brother , says she , 'you may come if you please . 
So in he came , just in the same kind of rant . 
'Poor Mrs. Betty , says he , 'it is a sad thing to be in love why , it has reduced you sadly . 
At last I spoke a little . 
'I am glad to see you so merry , sir , says I 'but I think the doctor might have found something better to do than to make his game at his patients . 
If I had been ill of no other distemper , I know the proverb too well to have let him come to me . 
'What proverb ? says he , 'Oh ! I remember it now . 
What Where love is the case , The doctor's an ass . 
Is not that it , Mrs. Betty ? I smiled and said nothing . 
I doubt there's somewhat in it , Mrs. Betty I doubt you are sick of the incurables , and that is love . 
I smiled and said , 'No , indeed , sir , that's none of my distemper . 
We had a deal of such discourse , and sometimes others that signified as little . 
By and by he asked me to sing them a song , at which I smiled , and said my singing days were over . 
At last he asked me if he should play upon his flute to me his sister said she believe it would hurt me , and that my head could not bear it . 
I bowed , and said , No , it would not hurt me . 
'And , pray , madam . 
said I , 'do not hinder it I love the music of the flute very much . 
Then his sister said , 'Well , do , then , brother . 
With that he pulled out the key of his closet . 
I assured him I had never opened my mouth either to his brother or to anybody else . 
He shook his head and said , 'Then I am ruined , meaning himself and that moment his sister entered the room and told him she could not find the flute . 
'And is this possible , Mrs. Betty ? says the old lady . 
Upon his coming up to them , for they were all still together , 'Sit down , Robin , says the old lady , 'I must have some talk with you . 
'With all my heart , madam , says Robin , looking very merry . 
'I hope it is about a good wife , for I am at a great loss in that affair . 
'Forbid , the banns ! says his mother 'who can that be ? 'Even Mrs. Betty herself , says Robin . 
'How so ? says his mother . 
'Have you asked her the question , then ? 'Yes , indeed , madam , says Robin . 
'Explain yourself , says the mother , 'for I am surprised I do not understand you . 
I hope you are not in earnest . 
Here the sisters put in . 
Robin was a little warmed with his sister's rudeness , but he was even with her , and yet with good manners too . 
The younger sister then put in . 
'Answer , and answer not , say Solomon , replied her brother . 
'My mother , you see , did not understand it , says the second sister . 
'There's some difference , says Robin , 'between desiring me to explain it , and telling me she did not believe it . 
I hope my warm sisters will be answered now , and blush a little if not , I have no more to say till I hear further . 
This answer was surprising to them all , though less to the mother , because of what I had said to her . 
'Nay , says the eldest sister , 'if it be so , she has acted handsomely indeed . 
'But I shall not , says Robin , 'unless you will give your consent . 
But this I will say , I am in earnest in , that I will never have anybody else if I can help it so you may determine for me . 
All this was dreadful to me , for the mother began to yield , and Robin pressed her home on it . 
Then he told the whole story between Robin , as he called him , and his mother and sisters and himself , as it is above . 
On the other hand , he failed not to set forth the easy , prosperous life which I was going to live . 
I should go back a little here to where I left off . 
So certainly does interest banish all manner of affection , and so naturally do men give up honour and justice , humanity , and even Christianity , to secure themselves . 
My two children were , indeed , taken happily off my hands by my husband's father and mother , and that , by the way , was all they got by Mrs. Betty . 
Before my husband died his elder brother was married , and we , being then removed to London , were written to by the old lady to come and be at the wedding . 
As for their common design , that I understood too well to be drawn into any more snares of that kind . 
The case was altered with me I had money in my pocket , and had nothing to say to them . 
On the other hand , those who came with the best proposals were the dullest and most disagreeable part of the world . 
I said for myself , for I was not trepanned , I confess , but I betrayed myself . 
We'll go to Oxford , says he . 
'How , says I , 'shall we go ? I am no horsewoman , and 'tis too far for a coach . 
'Too far ! says he 'no place is too far for a coach and six . 
If I carry you out , you shall travel like a duchess . 
'Hum , says I , 'my dear , 'tis a frolic but if you have a mind to it , I don't care . 
Vanity is the perfection of a fop . 
Upon these apprehensions , the first thing I did was to go quite out of my knowledge , and go by another name . 
But it is none of my talent to preach these men were too wicked , even for me . 
I was not wicked enough for such fellows as these yet . 
On the contrary , I began to consider here very seriously what I had to do how things stood with me , and what course I ought to take . 
I had made an acquaintance with a very sober , good sort of a woman , who was a widow too , like me , but in better circumstances . 
Such as , having good business , that is to say , a good ship , resolved not to marry but with advantage , that is , with a good fortune . 
This knowledge I soon learned by experience , viz . 
I heard of it , and I had begun my acquaintance with her , I went to see her upon it . 
She entered into a close conversation with me about it , and unbosomed herself very freely . 
The last of which , indeed , had some truth in it but at the same time I did not find that she seemed to like him much the worse for that part . 
As I had put this into her head , she came most readily into it . 
The captain was laughed at in all companies , and was ready to hang himself . 
After some time he recovered himself a little , and from that time became the most humble , the most modest , and most importunate man alive in his courtship . 
She carried her jest on a great way . 
She brought him by these tricks to submit to all possible measures to satisfy her , as well of his circumstances as of his behaviour . 
It was enough to him to obtain her for a wife . 
But I come now to my own case , in which there was at this time no little nicety . 
In short , the widow , they said , had no money . 
In the next place , she tells her husband that I had at least fortune , and that after some of my relations I was like to have a great deal more . 
It was enough to tell her husband this there needed nothing on my side . 
I picked out my man without much difficulty , by the judgment I made of his way of courting me . 
He stopped my mouth in that part with the thunder of his protestations , as above , but still I pretended to doubt . 
One morning he pulls off his diamond ring , and writes upon the glass of the sash in my chamber this line 'You I love , and you alone . 
I read it , and asked him to lend me his ring , with which I wrote under it , thus 'And so in love says every one . 
He takes his ring again , and writes another line thus 'Virtue alone is an estate . 
I borrowed it again , and I wrote under it 'But money's virtue , gold is fate . 
I ventured all upon the last cast of poetry , as you'll see , for I wrote boldly under his last 'I'm poor let's see how kind you'll prove . 
This was a sad truth to me whether he believed me or no , I could not tell I supposed then that he did not . 
I took his pen , and followed him immediately , thus 'Yet secretly you hope I lie . 
I wrote again 'She loves enough that does not hate . 
'Very well , thought I 'you shall carry me thither as soon as you please , though I won't tell you so beforehand . 
All this , you may be sure , was as I wished , and indeed nothing could have happened more perfectly agreeable . 
'That's true , says I , 'but I have a great difficulty upon me about it , which I scarce know how to manage . 
'What's that , m dear ? says he . 
'Why , says I , ''tis a little hard upon me , and 'tis harder upon you . 
'has told you I had a great deal more money than I ever pretended to have , and I am sure I never employed him to do so . 
'That's is so just , said I , 'and so generous , that it makes my having but a little a double affliction to me . 
'Well , said I , 'my dear , I am glad I have not been concerned in deceiving you before marriage . 
'There's something , my dear , said I , 'and not quite all neither . 
'And now , my dear , says I to him , 'I am very sorry to tell you , that there is all , and that I have given you my whole fortune . 
He said a thousand kind things to me upon the subject of my making such a proposal to him . 
To bring the story short , we agreed to go . 
To give an account of the manner of our voyage , which was long and full of dangers , is out of my way I kept no journal , neither did my husband . 
'Such as we call them , my dear , says she , 'but they are more properly called slaves . 
Or , secondly , such as are transported from Newgate and other prisons , after having been found guilty of felony and other crimes punishable with death . 
'When they come here , says she , 'we make no difference the planters buy them , and they work together in the field till their time is out . 
We had frequent discourses of this kind , and abundance of instances she gave me of the like . 
Here my mother in law ran out in a long account of the wicked practices in that dreadful place , and how it ruined more young people that all the town besides . 
She perceived I was out of order , and asked me if I was not well , and what ailed me . 
I was now the most unhappy of all women in the world . 
I leave it to any man to judge what difficulties presented to my view . 
I was away from my native country , at a distance prodigious , and the return to me unpassable . 
I lived very well , but in a circumstance insufferable in itself . 
If I had discovered myself to my mother , it might be difficult to convince her of the particulars , and I had no way to prove them . 
without a mother , and to be brought up by strangers , and never to see them more . 
I told him he should find I was far enough from mad , and that it was not in his power , or any other villain's , to murder me . 
My blood was now fired to the utmost , though I knew what he had said was very true , and nothing could appear more provoked . 
However , she promised again to me at parting , that she would say nothing of it to her son , till we had talked of it again . 
When these things were a little over with her , we fell into a close debate about what should be first done before we gave an account of the matter to my husband . 
My mother was as sensible of this as I and , upon the whole , we knew not what to do . 
'For , child , says she , 'we are both undone if it comes out . 
This proposal did not agree at all with my judgment of the thing , though it was very fair and kind in my mother but my thoughts ran quite another way . 
At last I resolved on a desperate course , and told my mother my resolution , viz . 
that , in short , I would tell him of it myself . 
I found the effects of this treaty presently . 
He importuned me to tell him what it was . 
It is impossible to express his surprise at this relation , and the double importunity which he used with me to discover it to him . 
He told me I could not be called kind to him , nay , I could not be faithful to him if I concealed it from him . 
I told him I thought so too , and yet I could not do it . 
'That , says he , 'is the most reasonable demand in the world not to blame you for that which is not your fault . 
'Very just again , says he 'with all my heart' so he wrote down that also , and signed it . 
'I'll do my utmost , says he , 'upon condition you will keep me no longer in suspense , for you terrify me with all these preliminaries . 
, for he was just fainting away . 
'That would be strange , said I , 'as all the rest . 
'No , no , says he , 'I'll make it easy there's nobody in the way of it but myself . 
Things were now come to a lamentable height in the family . 
, we agreed that after I arrived he should pretend to have an account that I was dead in England , and so might marry again when he would . 
I had now a new scene of life upon my hands , and a dreadful appearance it had . 
I was come away with a kind of final farewell . 
The Bath is a place of gallantry enough expensive , and full of snares . 
However , I shook them off , and still flattered myself that something or other might offer for my advantage . 
But I was in the wrong place for it . 
I had resisted some casual offers of gallantry , and had managed that way well enough . 
However , I went this length the first season , viz . 
In a word , this gentleman came down and continued to single me out for his peculiar confidence as well as conversation . 
He was a complete gentleman , that must be confessed , and his company was very agreeable to me , as mine , if I might believe him , was to him . 
be cast on him for mismanaging her cure and in the meantime he came to the Bath to divert his thoughts from the disturbance of such a melancholy circumstance as that was . 
I told her I had not given him the least occasion to think I wanted it , or that I would accept of it from him . 
I stood off very boldly . 
to tell him I wanted money , though I was secretly very glad of his offer . 
'Oh , widow ! says she , 'I have bad news to tell you this morning . 
'What is that ? said I 'are the Virginia ships taken by the French ? for that was my fear . 
'No , no , says she , 'but the man you sent to Bristol yesterday for money is come back , and says he has brought none . 
and added , 'I intend you shall have most of it by and by . 
He was in a might good humour when he heard me say I had paid her , and it went off into some other discourse at that time . 
But the next morning , he having heard me up about my room before him , he called to me , and I answering , he asked me to come into his chamber . 
After some very kind expressions , he asked me if I would be very honest to him , and give a sincere answer to one thing he would desire of me . 
After some little cavil at the word 'sincere , and asking him if I had ever given him any answers which were not sincere , I promised him I would . 
Why , then , his request was , he said , to let him see my purse . 
I immediately put my hand into my pocket , and , laughing to him , pulled it out , and there was in it three guineas and a half . 
Then he asked me if there was all the money I had . 
I told him No , laughing again , not by a great deal . 
Well , then , he said , he would have me promise to go and fetch him all the money I had , every farthing . 
In which drawer there was a great deal of money in gold , I believe near two hundred guineas , but I knew not how much . 
He took the drawer , and taking my hand , made me put it in and take a whole handful . 
I relate this story the more particularly because of the good humour there was in it , and to show the temper with which we conversed . 
I told him I must housewife the money he had lent me , or else I should not be able to pay him again . 
I was not very easy in that proposal , not knowing what posture I was to live in there , or how he might use me . 
He consented , and I brought him to the Bath , which was about fifteen miles , as I remember . 
However , at last he grew better , and gave hopes that he would recover , as indeed he did , though very slowly . 
And now he made deep protestations of a sincere inviolable affection for me , but all along attested it to be with the utmost reserve for my virtue and his own . 
I told him I was fully satisfied of it . 
At last , repeating his usual saying , that he could lie naked in the bed with me and not offer me the least injury , he starts out of his bed . 
I own it was a noble principle , but as it was what I never understood before , so it was to me perfectly amazing . 
I do not say that I was so wholly pleased with it as he thought I was , for I own much wickeder than he , as you shall hear presently . 
that I could find in my heart to discharge him of his engagement for one night and no more . 
Thus the government of our virtue was broken , and I exchanged the place of friend for that unmusical , harsh sounding title of whore . 
, yet if I was with child , he would take care of that , and of me too . 
used to such things , made light of it she said she knew it would come to that at last , and made us very merry about it . 
When I grew near my time she desired my gentleman to go away to London , or make as if he did so . 
I often expressed my concern to him about it , but he bid me not be concerned at it . 
I was very much concerned at this account , and was very impatient to know how it was with him . 
I waited a fortnight or thereabouts , and heard nothing , which surprised me , and I began to be very uneasy indeed . 
I think , I may say , that for the next fortnight I was near to distracted . 
Here I also soon understood that he was at the last extremity , which made me almost at the last extremity too , to have a true account . 
I made no doubt then but that I should soon hear of him , and began to comfort myself with my circumstances being , as I thought , recovered . 
After this it was yet two months more , and then I understood he was come to his city house again , but still I heard nothing from him . 
I had written several letters for him , and directed them as usual , and found two or three of them had been called for , but not the rest . 
Its contents I shall come to presently . 
In the condition I have been in , it cannot be strange to you that our unhappy correspondence had not been the least of the burthens which lay upon my conscience . 
I need say no more those things that must be repented of , must be also reformed . 
I wish you would thing of going back to the Bath . 
I will take due care of the child leave him where he is , or take him with you , as you please . 
I wish you the like reflections , and that they may be to your advantage . 
And now I was greatly perplexed about my little boy . 
Then I represented my own circumstances to him in the most moving terms that I was able . 
This was indeed all a cheat thus far , viz . 
I now began to cast up my accounts . 
Including this recruit , and before I got the last , I found my strength to amount , put all together , to about , so that with that I had about . 
I had a little plate , but not much , and was well enough stocked with clothes and linen . 
I cast about innumerable ways for my future state of life , and began to consider very seriously what I should do , but nothing offered . 
But all this was nothing I found no encouraging prospect . 
I waited I lived regularly , and with as much frugality as became my circumstances , but nothing offered , nothing presented , and the main stock wasted apace . 
What to do I knew not the terror of approaching poverty lay hard upon my spirits . 
I had some money , but where to place it I knew not , nor would the interest of it maintain me , at least not in London . 
At length a new scene opened . 
This perplexed me strangely , and what to do I knew not . 
He added , that his friend should take nothing of me for his advice or assistance , and this indeed encouraged me very much . 
He appointed the same evening , after the bank was shut and business over , for me to meet him and his friend . 
Accordingly I met him the next day , when I entered more freely with him into my case . 
I began to think he had been in the condition of my late lover , and that his wife had been distempered or lunatic , or some such thing . 
I told him I would come , and desired to know where he lived . 
He smiled and , standing up , with great respect saluted me . 
He told me I was wrong . 
'I know nothing of your circumstances that way , sir , said I 'but it cannot be innocent to wish your wife dead . 
'I tell you , says he again , 'she is a wife and no wife you don't know what I am , or what she is . 
'Well , well , says he , 'and so I am , I hope , too . 
but I am something else too , madam for , says he , 'to be plain with you , I am a cuckold , and she is a whore . 
Well , I pitied him , and wished him well rid of her , and still would have talked of my business , but it would not do . 
At last he looks steadily at me . 
'Well , sir , says I , 'then you must divorce her . 
If you can prove what you say , you may certainly get that done , and then , I suppose , you are free . 
'That's very tedious and expensive , says he . 
'Why , says I , 'if you can get any woman you like to take your word , I suppose your wife would not dispute the liberty with you that she takes herself . 
It occurred to me presently , 'I would have taken your word with all my heart , if you had but asked me the question' but that was to myself . 
'Why , sir , says I , ''tis easy to give advice in your case , much easier than it is in mine . 
'Speak then , says he , 'I beg of you , for now you encourage me . 
'No , that answer will not do , said he , 'for , in short , that is the question I shall ask . 
'Nay , says I , 'you have forbid my coming any more . 
'Why so ? said he , and looked a little surprised . 
'Because , said I , 'you can't expect I should visit you on the account you talk of . 
He would have had me let the maid have stayed , but I would not , but ordered her aloud to come for me again about nine o'clock . 
I found , and was not a little please with it , that he had provided a supper for me . 
I found also he lived very handsomely , and had a house very handsomely furnished all of which I was rejoiced at indeed , for I looked upon it as all my own . 
We had now a second conference upon the subject matter of the last conference . 
''Tis no matter when it began , thought I 'if it will but hold , 'twill be well enough . 
He then told me how much the offer I had made of trusting him with my effects , and leaving them to him , had enraged him . 
'So I intended it should , thought I , 'but then I thought you had been a single man too . 
He then told me he had a proposal to make to me , which I should promise him I would not take ill if I should not grant it . 
That part I did not relish at all . 
I told him I was ready to hear anything that he had to say , depending that he would say nothing unworthy of himself , or unfit for me to hear . 
In short , I carried on the argument against this so far , that I convinced him it was not a proposal that had any sense in it . 
I played with this lover as an angler does with a trout . 
I found I had him fast on the hook , so I jested with his new proposal , and put him off . 
It was a base design I went with , that I must confess , though I was invited thither with a design much worse than mine was , as the sequel will discover . 
Well , I went with my friend , as I called her , into Lancashire . 
We were also entertained at a merchant's house in Liverpool three or four days very handsomely I forbear to tell his name , because of what followed . 
Then she told me she would carry me to an uncle's house of hers , where we should be nobly entertained . 
She did so her uncle , as she called him , sent a coach and four horses for us , and we were carried near forty miles I know not whither . 
We came , however , to a gentleman's seat , where was a numerous family , a large park , extraordinary company indeed , and where she was called cousin . 
I told her if she had resolved to bring me into such company as this , she should have let me have prepared myself , and have furnished myself with better clothes . 
came to visit me in his own chariot , and in a very good figure , with two footmen in a good livery and the next thing was to make love to me . 
After we had been married about a month , he began to talk of my going to West Chester in order to embark for Ireland . 
Thither we went in a fine boat they call a pinnace , with six oars his servants , and horses , and baggage going in the ferry boat . 
He made his excuse to me that he had no acquaintance in Chester , but he would go before and get some handsome apartment for me at a private house . 
I asked him how long we should stay at Chester . 
He said , not at all , any longer than one night or two , but he would immediately hire a coach to go to Holyhead . 
Here my spouse , talking of my going to Ireland , asked me if I had no affairs to settle at London before we went off . 
I told him No , not of any great consequence , but what might be done as well by letter from Dublin . 
No , he said , I had not told him so , but his sister had said the greatest part of my estate lay there . 
She owned that she had told him that I was a great fortune , and said that she was told so at London . 
'What injury can be done me , my dear , says he , 'in marrying you . 
I hope it is to my honour and advantage every way . 
'I have been now asking your sister if ever I told her of any fortune or estate I had , or gave her any particulars of it and she owns I never did . 
She cried , said she had been told so in the house where I lodged . 
She took the opportunity of his being earnest in talking with me , and got out of the room , and I never saw her more . 
I was confounded now as much as he , and knew not what to say . 
I thought many ways that I had the worst of it , but his saying he was undone , and that he had no estate neither , put me into a mere distraction . 
I told him I would answer it honestly whether it would be to his satisfaction or not , that I could not tell . 
This bill I concealed , and that made me the freer of the rest , in consideration of his circumstances , for I really pitied him heartily . 
But to return to his question , I told him I never willingly deceived him , and I never would . 
'Come , my dear , says he , though the case is bad , it is to no purpose to be dejected . 
come , be as easy as you can I will endeavour to find out some way or other to live if you can but subsist yourself , that is better than nothing . 
I must try the world again a man ought to think like a man to be discouraged is to yield to the misfortune . 
It was really a true , gallant spirit he was of , and it was the more grievous to me . 
I asked him why he would be so unkind to carry me into Ireland , when I might suppose he could not have subsisted me there . 
He took me in his arms . 
He rose before me in the morning and indeed , having lain awake almost all night , I was very sleepy , and lay till near eleven o'clock . 
Forgive me , my dear ! I ask your pardon with the greatest sincerity I am the most miserable of men , in having deluded you . 
I have been so happy to posses you , and now am so wretched as to be forced to fly from you . 
Forgive me , my dear once more I say , forgive me ! I am not able to see you ruined by me , and myself unable to support you . 
On the other hand , if you should not marry , and if good fortune should befall me , it shall be all yours , wherever you are . 
Again I sincerely ask your pardon , and will do so as often as I shall ever think of you . 
I reproached him a thousand times in my thoughts for leaving me , for I would have gone with him through the world , if I had begged my bread . 
I sat me down and looked upon these things two hours together , and scarce spoke a word , till my maid interrupted me by telling me my dinner was ready . 
I ate but little , and after dinner I fell into a vehement fit of crying , every now and then calling him by his name , which was James . 
'O Jemmy ! said I , 'come back , come back . 
I'll give you all I have I'll beg , I'll starve with you . 
I was in the greatest confusion imaginable , and so was he too . 
'My dear , said I , 'how could you go away from me ? to which he gave no answer , for it was impossible for him to speak . 
I told him how I had passed my time , and how loud I had called him to come back again . 
He told me he heard me very plain upon Delamere Forest , at a place about twelve miles off . 
'Why , said I , 'what did I say ? for I had not named the words to him . 
'You called aloud , says he , 'and said , O Jemmy ! O Jemmy ! come back , come back . 
I then began to be amazed and surprised , and indeed frightened , and told him what I had really done , and how I had called after him , as above . 
When we had amused ourselves a while about this , I said to him 'Well , you shall go away from me no more I'll go all over the world with you rather . 
Two days after this we quitted Chester , I in the stage coach , and he on horseback . 
I dismissed my maid at Chester . 
Here I told him I would live with him now till all my money was spent , but would not let him spend a shilling of his own . 
I was dreadfully afraid that upon such a proposal he would have taken me at my word , viz . 
I could bring him to nothing further than this . 
However , those consultations entertained us near a month , during which I enjoyed his company , which indeed was the most entertaining that ever I met in my life before . 
I came to London the next day after we parted , but did not go directly to my old lodgings but for another nameless reason took a private lodging in St . 
John's Street , or , as it is vulgarly called , St . 
I had left directions in Lancashire , so that I had these letters , which he sent , conveyed to me and during my recess at St . 
This put me to extreme perplexity , and I grew very melancholy , for indeed I knew not what course to take . 
However , speaking of it in the house , the gentlewoman who kept the house proposed to me to send for a midwife . 
I scrupled it at first , but after some time consented to it , but told her I had no particular acquaintance with any midwife , and so left it to her . 
My landlady had told her I was very melancholy , and that she believed that had done me harm and once , before me , said to her , 'Mrs . 
I really did not understand her , but my Mother Midnight began very seriously to explain what she mean , as soon as she was gone . 
'Madam , says she , 'you seem not to understand what your landlady means and when you do understand it , you need not let her know at all that you do so . 
'She means that you are under some circumstances that may render your lying in difficult to you , and that you are not willing to be exposed . 
She took me short , and told me that was none of her business all the ladies that came under her care were married women to her . 
I found presently , that whether I was a whore or a wife , I was to pass for a whore here , so I let that go . 
'The last , says I , 'is not so much my concern as the first . 
My name is B I live in such a street' naming the street at the sign of the Cradle . 
My profession is a midwife , and I have many ladies that come to my house to lie in . 
I have given security to the parish in general terms to secure them from any charge from whatsoever shall come into the world under my roof . 
I have but one question to ask in the whole affair , madam , says she , 'and if that be answered you shall be entirely easy for all the rest . 
I presently understood what she meant , and told her , 'Madam , I believe I understand you . 
The next day she brought it , and the copy of her three bills was a follows . 
For three months' lodging in her house , including my diet , at s . 
For a nurse for the month , and use of childbed linen . 
For a minister to christen the child , and to the godfathers and clerk . 
For a supper at the christening if I had five friends at it . 
For her fees as a midwife , and the taking off the trouble of the parish . 
To her maid servant attending . 
d This was the first bill the second was the same terms . 
For three months' lodging and diet , etc . 
For a nurse for the month , and the use of linen and lace . 
For the minister to christen the child , etc . 
For supper and for sweetmeats . 
For her fees as above . 
, d This was the second rate bill the third , she said , was for a degree higher , and when the father or friends appeared . 
For three months' lodging and diet , having two rooms and a garret for a servant . 
For a nurse for the month , and the finest suit of childbed linen . 
For the minister to christen the child , etc . 
For a super , the gentlemen to send in the wine . 
For my fees , etc . 
The maid , besides their own maid , only . 
She told me I should be judge of that when I saw them . 
I told her I was sorry to tell her that I geared I must be her lowest rated customer . 
'And perhaps , madam , said I , 'you will make me the less welcome upon that account . 
Then she explained the particulars of her bill . 
in all more than your ordinary charge of living . 
I found she was an eminent lady in her way and , in short , I agreed to put myself into her hands , and promised her . 
I did not understand her at all however , I thanked her , and so we parted . 
This was surprisingly good and kind , and I accepted it very willingly . 
What should become of them all , considering so many , as by her account she was concerned with , I cannot conceive . 
To bring this part into as narrow a compass as possible , I quitted my lodging at St . 
This was a strange testimony of the growing vice of the age , and such a one , that as bad as I had been myself , it shocked my very senses . 
It was near a fortnight old when it came to me , because it had been first sent into Lancashire , and then returned to me . 
I returned an answer to his letter , and dated it at Liverpool , but sent it by messenger , alleging that it came in cover to a friend in town . 
I was brought to bed about the middle of May and had another brave boy , and myself in as good condition as usual on such occasions . 
My governess did her part as a midwife with the greatest art and dexterity imaginable , and far beyond all that ever I had had any experience of before . 
Her care of me in my travail , and after in my lying in , was such , that if she had been my own mother it could not have been better . 
At last I opened my case at a distance to my governess . 
I appeared melancholy and uneasy for several days , and she lay at me continually to know what trouble me . 
I owned I had something which very much troubled me , but at the same time told her I could not speak of it to any one alive . 
She continued importuning me several days , but it was impossible , I told her , for me to commit the secret to anybody . 
In short , she had such a bewitching eloquence , and so great a power of persuasion that there was no concealing anything from her . 
So I resolved to unbosom myself to her . 
, that I could not think of it without horror . 
She asked me if she had not been careful and tender to me in my lying in , as if I had been her own child . 
I told her I owned she had . 
'It may be true , mother , says I , 'for aught I know , but my doubts are very strongly grounded indeed . 
'Come , then , says she , 'let's hear some of them . 
'A fine story ! says the governess . 
'You would see the child , and you would not see the child you would be concealed and discovered both together . 
At last my old governess came to me , with her usual assurance . 
'Oh mother , says I , 'if you can do so , you will engage me to you for ever . 
If she offers it , she shall lose the money which you are suppose to give her , and the child shall be taken from her too . 
I was very well pleased with this . 
So the next week a countrywoman was brought from Hertford , or thereabouts , who was to take the child off our hands entirely for in money . 
But she seemed to be so much out of the way , and to have no room to inquire after me , that I thought I was safe enough . 
He returned me an answer in the most passionate terms imaginable , and desired me to let him have timely notice , and he would come and meet me , two day's journey . 
This puzzled me scurvily , and I did not know what answer to make of it . 
And it was no ill grounded thought as you shall hear presently . 
I endeavoured to reason myself out of it , but it was in vain the impression lay so strong on my mind , that it was not to be resisted . 
I confess I was very glad to see him , for I had thought myself a little disappointed over night , seeing I had gone so far to contrive my coming on purpose . 
coach and four horses , with a servant to attend him . 
I asked him what he meant by that , for I was for going forward with the journey . 
My gentleman answered loud enough for me to hear , 'Very well , I believe I shall . 
'What do you mean ? says I , colouring a little . 
'You fright me , said I 'what are all these ? 'Don't be frighted , my dear , said he , and kissed me . 
Well , he said , it might be time enough for me , but notime but the present time was time enough for him . 
There were other papers rolled up , and I asked him what they were . 
I could not refuse it , if I had a mind to do so , for he put it upon my finger so I made him a curtsy and accepted it . 
Then he takes out another ring 'And this , says he , 'is for another occasion , so he puts that in his pocket . 
'Well , but let me see it , though , says I , and smiled 'I guess what it is I think you are mad . 
'Hold , says he , 'first look here' then he took up the roll again and read it , and behold ! it was a licence for us to be married . 
'Why , says I , 'are you distracted ? Why , you were fully satisfied that I would comply and yield at first word , or resolved to take no denial . 
'The last is certainly the case , said he . 
'Well , well , said I , and giving him a slight kiss , 'then you shan't be denied , said I 'let me get up . 
I turned from him , for it filled my eyes with tears too , and I asked him leave to retire a little to my chamber . 
If ever I had a grain of true repentance for a vicious and abominable life for twenty four years past , it was then . 
He was impatient for my coming out of my chamber , but finding me long , he went downstairs and talked with my landlord about the parson . 
When he came to the minister , he asked him if he would venture to marry a couple of strangers that were both willing . 
'To put you out of doubt of that , says my gentleman , 'read this paper' and out he pulls the license . 
'I am satisfied , says the minister 'where is the lady ? 'You shall see her presently , says my gentleman . 
'Well , said I , 'do as you please' so up they brings the parson , and a merry , good sort of gentleman he was . 
'Well , sir , says the parson , 'every ill turn has some good in it . 
Landlord , have you a Common Prayer Book ? I started as if I had been frightened . 
I was a great while before I could be persuaded , and pretended not to be willing at all to be married but in the church . 
But it was all grimace so I seemed at last to be prevailed on , and my landlord and his wife and daughter were called up . 
It was not to be concealed , nor was it so doubtful as to leave me any room to question it , but the second of the three was my Lancashire husband . 
I say , there was no room to question the truth of it I knew his clothes , I knew his horse , and I knew his face . 
The first sensible reflect I made was , that my husband was not by to see my disorder , and that I was very glad of it . 
The gentlemen had not been long in the house but they came to the window of their room , as is usual but my window was shut , you may be sure . 
My next concern was to know , if possible , what was his business there but that was impossible . 
I remained in this fright nearly two hours , and scarce ever kept my eye from the window or door of the inn where they were . 
The house was immediately beset and searched , but there were witnesses enough that the gentlemen had been gone over three hours . 
The crowd having gathered about , we had the news presently and I was heartily concerned now another way . 
As to the three gentlemen , that remains to be explained hereafter . 
I never lived four pleasanter days together in my life . 
I was a mere bride all this while , and my new spouse strove to make me entirely easy in everything . 
I looked back on it with abhorrence , and might truly be said to hate myself for it . 
Now I seemed landed in a safe harbour , after the stormy voyage of life past was at an end , and I began to be thankful for my deliverance . 
But there are temptations which it is not in the power of human nature to resist , and few know what would be their case if driven to the same exigencies . 
As covetousness is the root of all evil , so poverty is , I believe , the worst of all snares . 
But I waive that discourse till I come to an experiment . 
I live with this husband with the utmost tranquillity he was a quiet , sensible , sober man virtuous , modest , sincere , and in his business diligent and just . 
His business was in a narrow compass , and his income sufficient to a plentiful way of living in the ordinary way . 
I kept no company , made no visits minded my family , and obliged my husband and this kind of life became a pleasure to me . 
I foresaw the blow , and was extremely oppressed in my mind , for I saw evidently that if he died I was undone . 
I was now left in a dismal and disconsolate case indeed , and in several things worse than ever . 
It is impossible to express the horror of my soul al the while I did it . 
When I went away I had no heart to run , or scarce to mend my pace . 
I crossed the street indeed , and went down the first turning I came to , and I think it was a street that went through into Fenchurch Street . 
I rested me a little and went on my blood was all in a fire my heart beat as if I was in a sudden fright . 
In short , I was under such a surprise that I still knew not wither I was going , or what to do . 
I sat me down , and cried most vehemently . 
Then I was impatient to hear some news of the loss and would fain know how it was , whether they were a poor body's goods , or a rich . 
And this thought tormented me worse than all the rest , for three or four days' time . 
But my own distresses silenced all these reflections , and the prospect of my own starving , which grew every day more frightful to me , hardened my heart by degrees . 
The child said that was not its way home . 
I said , 'Yes , my dear , it is I'll show you the way home . 
The child said , so she would , and I went through into Bartholomew Close , and then turned round to another passage that goes into St . 
This string of beads was worth about twelve or fourteen pounds . 
One adventure I had which was very lucky to me . 
Just as he threw it in he said , 'God bless you , mistress , let it lie there a little , and away he runs swift as the wind . 
After him comes two more , and immediately a young fellow without his hat , crying 'Stop thief ! and after him two or three more . 
This , indeed , I did with less disturbance than I had done formerly , for these things I did not steal , but they were stolen to my hand . 
It seems it was a mercer's shop that they had rifled . 
This was a ready thought . 
The diamond ring was worth about , and the other about s . 
I was now at a loss for a market for my goods , and especially for my two pieces of silk . 
However , I did not well know what course to take . 
At last I resolved to go to my old governess , and acquaint myself with her again . 
I had punctually supplied the a year to her for my little boy as long as I was able , but at last was obliged to put a stop to it . 
She asked me what it was I had . 
But here she was deficient honest business did not come within her reach . 
It seems some company had been drinking there , and the careless boys had forgot to take it away . 
'Who fetched the tankard away ? says the woman . 
The boy said , 'Yes , madam , very welcome , and away I came . 
'And have you brought it away with you , my dear ? says she . 
'To be sure I have , says I , and showed it her . 
'But what shall I do now , says I 'must not carry it again ? 'Carry it again ! says she . 
'Ay , if you are minded to be sent to Newgate for stealing it . 
Besides , child , says she , 'don't you want it more than they do ? I wish you could light of such a bargain once a week . 
Some time after this , as I was at work , and very melancholy , she begins to ask me what the matter was , as she was used to do . 
I told her my heart was heavy I had little work , and nothing to live on , and knew not what course to take . 
She laughed , and told me I must go out again and try my fortune it might be that I might meet with another piece of plate . 
'O mother ! says I , 'that is a trade I have no skill in , and if I should be taken I am undone at once . 
Says she , 'I could help you to a schoolmistress that shall make you as dexterous as herself . 
I trembled at that proposal , for hitherto I had had no confederates , nor any acquaintance among that tribe . 
The comrade she helped me to dealt in three sorts of craft , viz . 
At length she put me to practice . 
She had shown me her art , and I had several times unhooked a watch from her own side with great dexterity . 
At last she showed me a prize , and this was a young lady big with child , who had a charming watch . 
The thing was to be done as she came out of church . 
I made off immediately , and left my schoolmistress to come out of her pretended fright gradually , and the lady too and presently the watch was missed . 
She humoured the thing so well that nobody suspected her , and I was got home a full hour before her . 
This was my first adventure in company . 
The watch was indeed a very fine one , and had a great many trinkets about it , and my governess allowed us for it , of which I had half . 
This was doubtless the happy minute , when , if I had hearkened to the blessed hint , from whatsoever had it came , I had still a cast for an easy life . 
However , these thoughts left some impression upon me , and made me act with some more caution than before , and more than my directors used for themselves . 
This was enough to lodge them both in Newgate , where they had the misfortune to have some of their former sins brought to remembrance . 
Two other indictments being brought against them , and the facts being proved upon them , they were both condemned to die . 
They both pleaded their bellies , and were both voted quick with child though my tutoress was no more with child than I was . 
My governess looked out , for we were all up , and cried immediately that such a gentlewoman's house was all of a light fire atop , and so indeed it was . 
Here she gives me a job . 
She presently gave me my cue . 
She gave me the like cue to the next house , naming another name that was also an acquaintance of the gentlewoman of the house . 
Away I went , and , coming to the house , I found them all in confusion , you may be sure . 
'Madam , madam , says she , screaming as loud as she could yell , 'here is a gentlewoman come from Madam to help us . 
The poor woman , half out of her wits , with a bundle under her arm , an two little children , comes toward me . 
'Ay , do , for God's sake , says she , 'carry them to her . 
Oh ! thank her for her kindness . 
'Have you anything else to secure , madam ? says I 'she will take care of it . 
'Oh dear ! ay , says she , 'God bless her , and thank her . 
Take this bundle of plate and carry it to her too . 
Oh , she is a good woman . 
I was no sooner got into the street but I saw another woman come to me . 
'Oh ! says she , 'mistress , in a piteous tone , 'you will let fall the child . 
Come , this is a sad time let me help you' and immediately lays hold of my bundle to carry it for me . 
When we were come there I whispered her , 'Go , child , said I , 'I understand your trade you may meet with purchase enough . 
She understood me and walked off . 
One of the maids asked me if I was not to leave the bundle too . 
I said , 'No , sweetheart , 'tis to go to another place it does not belong to them . 
She told me she would not look into it , but bade me go out again to look for more . 
The reflection wore off , and I began quickly to forget the circumstances that attended the taking them . 
But even this was not yet , for I met with several successful adventures more in this way of being undone . 
I comforted her as well as I could , and she in return hardened me to merit more completely the same fate . 
There I think I carried off a piece of bone lace , worth six or seven pounds , and a paper of thread . 
But this was but once it was a trick that would not serve again . 
It was always reckoned a safe job when we heard of a new shop , and especially when the people were such as were not bred to shops . 
Such may depend upon it that they will be visited once or twice at their beginning , and they must be very sharp indeed if they can prevent it . 
I made another adventure or two , but they were but trifles too , though sufficient to live on . 
In short , they robbed together , lay together , were taken together , and at last were hanged together . 
One time they particularly proposed robbing a watchmaker of three gold watches , which they had eyed in the daytime , and found the place where he laid them . 
And thus I had a second escape , for they were convicted , and both hanged , being old offenders , though but young people . 
As I said before that they robbed together and lay together , so now they hanged together , and there ended my new partnership . 
This was so just an offer , that nothing could be fairer so he agreed , and taking a constable and me with him , we beset the house . 
There was near worth of lace in the hole , and I secured about worth of it to myself . 
I very punctually divided this spoil with my governess , and I passed with her from this time for a very dexterous manager in the nicest cases . 
The next thing of moment was an attempt at a gentlewoman's good watch . 
It happened in a crowd , at a meeting house , where I was in very great danger of being taken . 
I had no sooner said so , but the other gentlewoman cried out 'A pickpocket' too , for somebody , she said , had tried to pull her watch away . 
This was a narrow escape to me , and I was so frighted that I ventured no more at gold watches a great while . 
I had another adventure , which puts this matter out of doubt , and which may be an instruction for posterity in the case of a pickpocket . 
But our design lay another way , and it was absolutely necessary to me to conceal my sex from him , as appeared afterwards . 
But his ill , and my good fortune , soon put an end to this life , which I must own I was sick of too , on several other accounts . 
We had made several prizes in this new way of business , but the last would be extraordinary . 
There was a shop in a certain street which had a warehouse behind it that looked into another street , the house making the corner of the turning . 
This the young fellow was so overjoyed with , that he could not restrain himself . 
It lay all within his reach he said , and he swore violently to me that he would have it , if he broke down the house for it . 
He dropped two of the pieces , which stopped them a little , but the crowd increased and pursued us both . 
They took him soon after with the other two pieces upon him , and then the rest followed me . 
I ran for it and got into my governess's house whither some quick eyed people followed me to warmly as to fix me there . 
The people affirmed there did a man come in there , and swore they would break open the door . 
This they could not refuse , though they were a crowd . 
When she came to my room she called to me , and said aloud , 'Cousin , pray open the door here's some gentlemen that must come and look into your room . 
When they had done this , and could find nothing , they asked my pardon for troubling me , and went down . 
Two men swore that they saw the man whom they pursued go into her house . 
This oath she might justly take , and did so , and so she was dismissed . 
And as for my governess , though she was the means of his coming to me , yet it was done at second hand , and he knew nothing of her . 
But my business was of another nature . 
This filled me with horrible apprehensions . 
My landlady complimented me upon the good news however , that I had heard he was well . 
'Well , I am sorry the esquire can't come yet , says my landlord 'I should have been heartily glad to have seen him . 
With all these fine compliments we parted , and I came merry enough to London , and found my governess as well pleased as I was . 
From hence 'tis evident to me , that when once we are hardened in crime , no fear can affect us , no example give us any warning . 
I had indeed one comrade whose fate went very near me for a good while , though I wore it off too in time . 
That case was indeed very unhappy . 
They all knew me by the name of Moll Flanders , though even some of them rather believed I was she than knew me to be so . 
I kept close a great while upon the occasion of this woman's disaster . 
At length she came to her trial . 
, gave the bundle to her after they came out of the shop , and bade her carry it home to her lodging . 
This I took care to make impossible to her , and so she was shipped off in pursuance of her sentence a little while after . 
It was now a merry time of the year , and Bartholomew Fair was begun . 
then he continued to keep talking to me with a more than common appearance of respect , but still very civil , and much like a gentleman . 
I seemed to decline it a while , but suffered myself to be importuned a little , and then yielded . 
He pressed me also to drink , but I decline it . 
Hitherto he kept his word with me , and offered me nothing amiss . 
As for the bed , etc . 
, I was not much concerned about that part . 
All this while he drank freely too , and about one in the morning we went into the coach again . 
I took this opportunity to search him to a nicety . 
I did not indeed look so old as I was by ten or twelve years yet I was not a young wench of seventeen , and it was easy enough to be distinguished . 
But as to the purchase I got , and how entirely I stripped him , she told me it please her wonderfully . 
'Nay child , says she , 'the usage may , for aught I know , do more to reform him than all the sermons that ever he will hear in his life . 
And if the remainder of the story be true , so it did . 
She mused a while , and I going still on with the particulars , she starts up says she , 'I'll lay I know the gentleman . 
She returned warmly , 'Why , do you think I will betray you , child ? No , no , says she , 'not for all he is worth in the world . 
I have kept your counsel in worse things than these sure you may trust me in this . 
So I said no more at that time . 
She laid her scheme another way , and without acquainting me of it , but she was resolved to find it out if possible . 
, and that she knew not how to come at him without somebody to introduce her . 
Her friend promised her very readily to do it , and accordingly goes to the house to see if the gentleman was in town . 
'What disaster ? says my governess hastily , as if she was surprised at it . 
That's an old sham a thousand such tricks are put upon the poor women every day . 
'No , no , says her friend , 'I can assure you Sir is no hypocrite , he is really an honest , sober gentleman , and he has certainly been robbed . 
Away she comes to me and tells me this story . 
'I have found out your fine gentleman , and a fine gentleman he was , says she 'but , mercy on him , he is in a sad pickle now . 
I wonder what the d l you have done to him why , you have almost killed him . 
I looked at her with disorder enough . 
'I know nothing of that , says she , 'but he is in a sad pickle now' and so she told me all that her friend had said to her . 
'Well , then , says I , 'he fell into bad hands after I left him , for I am sure I left him safe enough . 
He looked a little angrily at first . 
'What adventure ? said he . 
'Why , said she , 'of your being robbed coming from Knightbr Hampstead , sir , I should say , says she . 
'Pray , sir , says she , 'do not reckon the discovery of it to me to be any part of your misfortune . 
'Well , says he , 'but let me do some justice to the woman too whoever she is , I do assure you she prompted me to nothing , she rather declined me . 
It was my own folly and madness that brought me into it all , ay , and brought her into it too I must give her her due so far . 
My governess now began to come into the whole matter , and he opened himself freely to her . 
'Well , says he , 'much good may it do her . 
I say again , all the gentlemen that do so ought to be used in the same manner , and then they would be cautious of themselves . 
I have no more concern about it , but on the score which you hinted at before , madam . 
She told him she would endeavour to procure it for him , and leave the valuing it to himself . 
Then he entered into a long talk with her of the manner how she came to know all this matter . 
I had a great many thoughts in my head about my seeing him again , and was often sorry that I had refused it . 
He appeared exceeding pleased to see me , and entered into a long discourse with me upon the old affair . 
But I took him up short . 
I protested I had never suffered any man to touch me since my husband died , which was near eight years . 
I withdrew , but came again undressed in the morning , before it was day , and lay with him the rest of the time . 
Thus , you see , having committed a crime once is a sad handle to the committing of it again whereas all the regret and reflections wear off when the temptation renews itself . 
When he went away , I told him I hoped he was satisfied he had not been robbed again . 
I had several visits of the like kind from him , but he never came into a settled way of maintenance , which was what I would have best pleased with . 
Once , indeed , he asked me how I did to live . 
I told her Yes , I waited for my mistress , that was coming to go to Barnet . 
I said Yes , very readily , and away she went . 
She was no sooner gone but comes a wench and a child , puffing and sweating , and asks for the Barnet coach . 
I answered presently , 'Here . 
'Do you belong to the Barnet coach ? says she . 
'Yes , sweetheart , said I 'what do ye want ? 'I want room for two passengers , says she . 
'Where are they , sweetheart ? said I. 'Here's this girl , pray let her go into the coach , says she , 'and I'll go and fetch my mistress . 
'Make haste , then , sweetheart , says I , 'for we may be full else . 
The maid had a great bundle under her arm so she put the child into the coach , and I said , 'You had best put your bundle into the coach too . 
'No , says she , 'I am afraid somebody should slip it away from the child . 
'Give to me , then , said I , 'and I'll take care of it . 
'Do , then , says she , 'and be sure you take of it . 
'I'll answer for it , said I , 'if it were for value . 
There , take it , then , says she , and away she goes . 
It seems she was going with her mistress , whom she had been gone to fetch , to the Barnet coaches . 
I saw she was in haste , and I had no business to stop her so away she went , and I brought my bundle safe home to my governess . 
Another time I placed myself at a warehouse by the waterside , where the coasting vessels from the north come , such as from Newcastle upon Tyne , Sunderland , and other places . 
Here , the warehouses being shut , comes a young fellow with a letter and he wanted a box and a hamper that was come from Newcastle upon Tyne . 
About an hour after , I came to the warehouse , found the warehouse keeper , and had the goods delivered me without any scruple the value of the linen being about . 
I could fill up this whole discourse with the variety of such adventures , which daily invention directed to , and which I managed with the utmost dexterity , and always with success . 
I had taken up the disguise of a widow's dress it was without any real design in view , but only waiting for anything that might offer , as I often did . 
Immediately came the mercer's journeyman , and he swore aloud I was the person , and so seized on me . 
'comes back , for he knows her . 
So they kept me by force near half an hour . 
I told him it was his time now , but it would be mine by and by , and governed my passion as well as I was able . 
I asked the porter his name , and where he lived , and the poor man told it me very willingly . 
I bade him observe and remember how I was treated there that he saw I was detained there by force . 
I told him I should want his evidence in another place , and it should not be the worse for him to speak . 
The porter said he would serve me with all his heart . 
'But , madam , says he , 'let me hear them refuse to let you go , then I may be able to speak the plainer . 
The fellow grew surlier upon this than before , and said he would do neither till he thought fit . 
'Very well , said I to the constable and to the porter 'you will be pleased to remember this , gentlemen , another time . 
'Good , sir , says the mercer to him tauntingly , 'are you a justice of peace or a constable ? I charged you with her pray do you do your duty . 
The constable told him , a little moved , but very handsomely , 'I know my duty , and what I am , sir I doubt you hardly know what you are doing . 
I spit in his face , called out to the constable , and bade him to take notice of my usage . 
'And pray , Mr. Constable , said I , 'ask that villain's name , pointing to the man . 
'What do ye mean by that ? says the master . 
'Why , we have her already there she sits , says he , 'and Mr. , says he , 'can swear this is she . 
The other man , whom they called Mr. Anthony , replied , 'Mr . 
I sat still now , and began to take a better heart , but smiled and said nothing the master looked pale the constable turned about and looked at me . 
'Let 'em alone , Mr. Constable , said I 'let 'em go on . 
Then be began to parley with me , said he would make me any reasonable satisfaction , and would fain have had me tell him what it was I expected . 
, and a man of good sense , stood to his business , would not discharge me without going to a justice of the peace and I insisted upon it too . 
When the mercer saw that , 'Well , says he to the constable , 'you may carry her where you please I have nothing to say to her . 
'But , sir , says the constable , 'you will go with us , I hope , for 'tis you that charged me with her . 
'No , not I , says the mercer 'I tell you I have nothing to say to her . 
'But pray , sir , do , says the constable 'I desire it of you for your own sake , for the justice can do nothing without you . 
'Prithee , fellow , says the mercer , 'go about your business I tell you I have nothing to say to the gentlewoman . 
I charge you in the king's name to dismiss her . 
'Sir , says the constable , 'I find you don't know what it is to be constable I beg of you don't oblige me to be rude to you . 
'I think I need not you are rude enough already , says the mercer . 
Well , he would not for all this , and gave the constable ill language . 
The justice then heard the mercer and his man . 
As to the journeyman , he had very little to say , but that he pretended other of the servants told him that I was really the person . 
After this hustle , coming home and telling my governess the story , she falls a laughing at me . 
I warrant you , says she , 'you shall make the mercer pay you for damages , besides what you shall get out of the journeyman . 
I asked him what he thought they would be brought to . 
He told me he could not tell as to that , but he would tell me more when I saw him again . 
Some time after this , they came again to know if he had talked with me . 
Accordingly I came in a new suit of second mourning , according to what I had said at the justice's . 
When I came into the room the mercer was surprised . 
After a little while the mercer said , he did not know me again , and began to make some compliments his way . 
I told him , I believed he did not know me at first , and that if he had , I believed he would not have treated me as he did . 
I came down to , and I demanded that I should publish an advertisement of the particulars in the common newspapers . 
This was a clause he never could comply with . 
He treated us handsomely indeed , and paid the money cheerfully enough so that it cost him in all , or rather more . 
It was not long after the affair with the mercer was made up , that I went out in an equipage quite different from any I had ever appeared in before . 
I wandered about all the evening the first time I went out , and made nothing of it , but came home again wet , draggled , and tired . 
However , I went out again the next night , and then I met with a little adventure , which had like to have cost me dear . 
He stayed pretty long in the tavern , and the drawer heard his master call , and thought he would be angry with him . 
'Yes , says I , and takes the horse , and walks off with him very soberly , and carried him to my governess . 
We might have waited till the owner had published and offered a reward , but we did not care to venture the receiving the reward . 
What kind of easiness that is , they may best judge that understand how easy men are that can murder people to prevent danger . 
I offered to go along with two men and a woman , that made it their business to get into houses by stratagem , and with them I was willing enough to venture . 
One day we came among some Dutch people at St . 
Catherine's , where we went on pretence to buy goods that were privately got on shore . 
The next day I dressed up again , but in quite different clothes , and walked the same way again , but nothing offered till I came into St . 
I asked her when she heard from her father when my lady her mother would be in town , and how she did . 
I talked so familiarly to her of her whole family that she could not suspect but that I knew them all intimately . 
to take of Mrs. Judith , that was her sister . 
I took my leave of her in the very crowd , and said to her , as if in haste , 'Dear Lady Betty , take care of your little sister . 
And so the crowd did as it were thrust me away from her , and that I was obliged unwillingly to take my leave . 
to go and visit my Lady Betty . 
I made another adventure after this , of a nature different from all I had been concerned in yet , and this was at a gaming house near Covent Garden . 
I looked in and said to my comrade aloud , 'Here's nothing but men I won't venture among them . 
At which one of the gentlemen cried out , 'You need not be afraid , madam , here's none but fair gamesters you are very welcome to come and set what you please . 
'No , sir , said I , smiling , 'I hope the gentlemen would not cheat a woman . 
But still I declined venturing , though I pulled out a purse with money in it , that they might see I did not want money . 
'Well , well , says he , 'there's ten guineas , madam set them for me . 
so I took his money and set , himself looking on . 
He was encouraged at this , and made me take the box , which was a bold venture . 
He laughed , and said if I had but good luck , it was no matter whether I understood the game or no but I should not leave off . 
However , he took out the fifteen guineas that he had put in at first , and bade me play with the rest . 
I understood the game well enough , though I pretended I did not , and played cautiously . 
He would have had me play on , but it grew late , and I desired to be excused . 
'Ay , says I , 'if it had not been for that unlucky throw , I had got you a hundred guineas . 
I refused it , and was positive I would not take it myself if he had a mind to anything of that kind , it should be all his own doings . 
The rest of the gentlemen seeing us striving cried , 'Give it her all' but I absolutely refused that . 
Then one of them said , 'D n ye , jack , halve it with her don't you know you should be always upon even terms with the ladies . 
Thus I brought home seventy three guineas , and let my old governess see what good luck I had at play . 
It was on old bite , and I though might do with a country shopkeeper , though in London it would not . 
I ordered the draper to send them home to me , about such an hour , to the inn where I lay , and I would pay him his money . 
I called to the fellow , 'What boat is it , friend , says I , 'that you belong to ? 'The Ipswich wherry , madam , says he . 
'Where are your things , madam ? says he . 
'At such an inn , said I. 'Well , I'll go with you , madam , says he , very civilly , 'and bring them for you . 
'Come away , then , says I , and takes him with me . 
In this hurry it was not much minded that I came to the bar and paid my reckoning , telling my landlady I had gotten my passage by sea in a wherry . 
All this I had found out by inquiring the night before into the several ways of going to London . 
My landlady was very courteous , took my money for my reckoning , but was called away , all the house being in a hurry . 
I was plagued at Ipswich with the custom house officers , who stopped my trunk , as I called it , and would open and search it . 
'Well , friend , says I , 'that I take for granted I don't expect it without money . 
'Why , that's honestly said too , says the countryman . 
'Not so honest , neither , said I to myself , 'if thou knewest all . 
'Why , mistress , says he , 'I have a horse that will carry double , and I don't much care if I go myself with you , and the like . 
'Will you ? says I 'well , I believe you are an honest man if you will , I shall be glad of it I'll pay you in reason . 
The moral , indeed , of all my history is left to be gathered by the senses and judgment of the reader I am not qualified to preach to them . 
Let the experience of one creature completely wicked , and completely miserable , be a storehouse of useful warning to those that read . 
I am drawing now towards a new variety of the scenes of life . 
He said , yes , he had , but this had confirmed his opinion , and he was fully satisfied now of my having been injured . 
So I came off with flying colours , though from an affair in which I was at the very brink of destruction . 
The sight of the constable , indeed , struck me with terror , and I thought I should have sunk into the ground . 
These things poured themselves in upon my thoughts in a confused manner , and left me overwhelmed with melancholy and despair . 
Oh ! if I had but been sent to any place in the world , and not to Newgate , I should have thought myself happy . 
I asked one of this crew how long she had been there . 
I asked her how the place looked to her when she first came into it . 
for being in Newgate , but had very few signs of repentance about me . 
It is scarce possible to imagine that our natures should be capable of so much degeneracy , as to make that pleasant and agreeable that in itself is the most complete misery . 
I neither had a heart to ask God's mercy , nor indeed to think of it . 
And in this , I think , I have given a brief description of the completest misery on earth . 
I was struck dumb at the sight , and knew neither what to say nor what to do he did not know me , and that was all the present relief I had . 
I quitted my company , and retired as much as that dreadful place suffers anybody to retire , and I cried vehemently for a great while . 
The surprise of the thing only struck deeper into my thoughts , any gave me stronger reflections than all that had befallen me before . 
I was overwhelmed with grief for him my own case gave me no disturbance compared to this , and I loaded myself with reproaches on his account . 
My temper was touched before , the hardened , wretched boldness of spirit which I had acquired abated , and conscious in the prison , guilt began to flow in upon my mind . 
In short , I began to think , and to think is one real advance from hell to heaven . 
I sent for my old governess , and she , give her her due , acted the part of a true friend . 
She left no stone unturned to prevent the grand jury finding the bill . 
I sunk down when they brought me news of it , and after I came to myself again , I thought I should have died with the weight of it . 
They say , added he , 'your case is very plain , and that the witnesses swear so home against you , there will be no standing it . 
This was plain dealing indeed , but it was very harsh to me , at least I thought it so . 
He left me in the greatest confusion imaginable , and all that night I lay awake . 
And now I began to say my prayers , which I had scarce done before since my last husband's death , or from a little while after . 
My poor afflicted governess was now as much concerned as I , and a great deal more truly penitent , though she had no prospect of being brought to trial and sentence . 
On the Friday I was brought to my trial . 
But that did not argue much , for certain it was that I had taken the goods , and I was bringing them away , if I had not been taken . 
I had no more spirit left in me , I had no tongue to speak , or eyes to look up either to God or man . 
It is rather to be thought of than expressed what was now my condition . 
In the meantime my poor distressed governess sent me a minister , who at her request first , and at my own afterwards , came to visit me . 
It was now that , for the first time , I felt any real signs of repentance . 
The word eternity represented itself with all its incomprehensible additions , and I had such extended notions of it , that I know not how to express them . 
But I go back to my own case . 
The minister pressed me to tell him , as far as I though convenient , in what state I found myself as to the sight I had of things beyond life . 
This honest , friendly way of treating me unlocked all the sluices of my passions . 
He broke into my very soul by it and I unravelled all the wickedness of my life to him . 
In a word , I gave him an abridgment of this whole history I gave him a picture of my conduct for fifty years in miniature . 
A terrible blow this was to my new resolutions indeed my heart sank within me , and I swooned away twice , one after another , but spoke not a word . 
Such , however , will , I hope , allow me the liberty to make my story complete . 
But I go on with my relation . 
The next morning there was a sad scene indeed in the prison . 
The first thing I was saluted with in the morning was the tolling of the great bell at St . 
Sepulchre's , as they call it , which ushered in the day . 
In the evening the good minister visited me again , and then fell to his usual good discourses . 
We shall all choose anything rather than death , especially when 'tis attended with an uncomfortable prospect beyond it , which was my case . 
The good minister , whose interest , though a stranger to me , had obtained me the reprieve , mourned sincerely for this part . 
'Well , well , says she , 'but I hope you will not be tempted with such a horrid example as that . 
She said no more but this 'We will try what can be done , and so we parted for that night . 
I lay in the prison near fifteen weeks after this order for transportation was signed . 
It seems they found means to bribe or buy off some of those who were expected to come in against them , and they wanted evidence for some time to convict them . 
They had , I think , one positive evidence against each of them , but the law strictly obliging them to have two witnesses , they could make nothing of it . 
I took this opportunity to satisfy my curiosity , pretending that I had been robbed in the Dunstable coach , and that I would go to see the two highwaymen . 
He said little to me at first , but asked me if I knew him . 
I told him , Yes , very well but as I concealed my face , so I counterfeited my voice , that he had not the least guess at who I was . 
He asked me where I had seen him . 
I told him between Dunstable and Brickhill but turning to the keeper that stood by , I asked if I might not be admitted to talk with him alone . 
He said Yes , yes , as much as I pleased , and so very civilly withdrew . 
'Unhappy couple ! says he . 
'How can this be possible ? I took him by the hand . 
'Come , my dear , said I , 'sit down , and let us compare our sorrows . 
And then I told him the particulars which I had observed him there . 
I told him , by no means it was a risk too great , not worth his running the hazard of , and for a life not worth his saving . 
Here he gave me a long history of his life , which indeed would make a very strange history , and be infinitely diverting . 
He told me he wrote two or three letters to me , directed according to my order , but heard nothing from me . 
This , he said , his friend managed so well , that they were not suspected at all , but lay still till he was perfectly cured . 
I then inquired into the circumstances of his present case at that time , and what it was he expected when he came to be tried . 
I used the utmost of my endeavour to persuade him , and joined that known woman's rhetoric to it I mean , that of tears . 
I had rather give to prevent going , than to be set at liberty when I came there . 
'That is , my dear , said I , 'because you do not know the place so well as I do . 
He smiled , and said he did not tell me he had money . 
He expressed himself in a most tender manner upon that head . 
In this manner , it seems , he lived near Liverpool at the time he unluckily married me for a fortune . 
Had I been the fortune he expected , I verily believe , as he said , that he would have taken up and lived honestly all his days . 
I must now return to my case . 
The officer of the prison delivered us on board , and the master of the vessel gave a discharge for us . 
I told him I desired no other and he answered that the ship's boat would go up to London the next tide , and he would order my letter to be carried . 
'There , says he , 'there's your shilling again too , for I delivered the letter myself . 
'No , no , says he , 'I am overpaid . 
What is the gentlewoman ? Your sister . 
'No , sir , says I , 'she is no relation to me , but she is a dear friend , and all the friends I have in the world . 
'Well , says he , 'there are few such friends in the world . 
'Would she so ? says he . 
'For half the money I believe I could put you in a way how to deliver yourself . 
But this he spoke softly , that nobody could hear . 
'Alas ! sir , said I , 'but then that must be such a deliverance as , if I should be taken again , would cost me my life . 
'Nay , said he , 'if you were once out of the ship , you must look to yourself afterwards that I can say nothing to . 
So we dropped the discourse for that time . 
I took that time to read my fellow prisoner's letter , which , however , greatly perplexed me . 
This was very perplexing , and I knew not what course to take . 
At last I was forced to let her into the whole matter , except only that of his being my husband . 
Our first business was to compare our stock . 
My stock which I had with me was some odd shillings so that we had between us , but a worse gotten estate was scarce ever put together to being the world with . 
Our greatest misfortune as to our stock was that it was all in money , which every one knows is an unprofitable cargo to be carried to the plantations . 
only of a poor , naked convict , ordered to be transported in respite from the gallows . 
My clothes were poor and mean , but not ragged or dirty , and none knew in the whole ship that I had anything of value about me . 
At the end of this time , behold my husband came on board . 
'My dear , says he , 'thou has twice saved my life from henceforward it shall be all employed for you , and I'll always take your advice . 
But when my husband came on board , I spoke to the boatswain , who had so early given me hints of his friendship in carrying my letter . 
I told him he had befriended me in many things , and I had not made any suitable return to him , and with that I put a guinea into his hand . 
He took the guinea , as I could see , with great satisfaction , and assured me of his assistance . 
He returned presently , 'Come along with me , and you shall see . 
So he took me into the great cabin , and there sat a good sort of a gentlemanly man for a seaman , writing , and with a great many papers before him . 
However , I chose a cabin which opened into the steerage , in which was very good conveniences to set our chest and boxes , and a table to eat on . 
This was very reviving news to me , after so many hardships and afflictions as I had gone through of late . 
The mate told him that the captain would be on board in the afternoon , and that he would leave all that till he came . 
I could not refrain acquainting my governess with what had happened it was but just that she , who was so really concerned for me , should have part in my good fortune . 
And then she begged his assistance in it . 
She told him she would furnish us with everything that was convenient whatever it cost her . 
He accordingly gave her a long particular of things necessary for a planter , which , by his account , came to about fourscore or a hundred pounds . 
After some mutual civilities , I gave my husband a purse , in which was eighty guineas , and he put in into the captain's hand . 
'There , captain , says he , 'there's part of a pledge for our fidelity if we deal dishonestly with you on any account , 'tis your own . 
And on this we went on shore . 
Here we bought ten dozen bottles of good beer , some wine , some fowls , and such things as we thought might be acceptable on board . 
My governess was with us all this while , and went with us round into the Downs , as did also the captain's wife , with whom she went back . 
I was never so sorrowful at parting with my own mother as I was at parting with her , and I never saw her more . 
We had a fair easterly wind sprung up the third day after we came to the Downs , and we sailed from thence the th of April . 
He id it now in kindness to my husband indeed , who bore the sea very ill , and was very sick , especially when it blew so hard . 
, and were very merry . 
At last I came so near that I saw the dwellinghouse . 
The woman that was with me had told me that by a mere accident , knowing nothing of what importance it was to me . 
As they drew near to us , I said , 'Does he know you , Mrs. Owen ? . 
This made me secure , and so I threw open my hoods again , and let them pass by me . 
As I was going back again , and still talking of this gentleman and his son , a new occasion of melancholy offered itself thus . 
The woman began , as if she would tell me a story to divert me 'There goes , says she , 'a very odd tale among the neighbours where this gentleman formerly live . 
It is easy to believe that I was strangely affected with this story , but 'tis impossible to describe the nature of my disturbance . 
I seemed astonished at the story , and asked her a thousand questions about the particulars , which I found she was thoroughly acquainted with . 
Here was a perplexity that I had not indeed skill to manage myself in , neither knew I what course to take . 
It lay heavy upon my mind night and day . 
I could neither sleep nor converse , sothat my husband perceived it , and wondered what ailed me , strove to divert me , but it was all to no purpose . 
I could give several remarkable instances of this in my long conversation with crime and with criminals . 
I knew one fellow that , while I was in prison in Newgate , was one of those they called then night fliers . 
For that as I naturally loved warm weather , so now I grew into years I had a stronger inclination to shun a cold climate . 
that was not at all proper to stay where we was , since I had assured him we should be known there , and the rest I effectually concealed from him . 
But now I found a new difficulty upon me . 
I cast about innumerable ways in my thoughts how this might be done . 
These were therefore difficulties insurmountable , and such as I knew not what to do in . 
The very thought of it gives me some horror , even since the danger is past . 
Here we bought us two servants , viz . 
an English woman servant just come on shore from a ship of Liverpool , and a Negro man servant , things absolutely necessary for all people that pretended to settle in that country . 
And now I persuaded my husband to let me go over the bay again , and inquire after my friends . 
But out good fortune did not end here . 
He called the messenger in , after some little stay , and asked him where the person was who gave him the letter . 
'My dear mother , says he , 'are you still alive ? I never expected to have seen your face . 
As for me , I could say nothing a great while . 
After we had both recovered ourselves a little , and were able to talk , he told me how things stood . 
This was really so prudently and wisely managed , that I found my son was a man of sense , and needed no direction from me . 
My son then inquired where I was , and how I had disposed myself . 
He acknowledged that I was right in all this . 
'But then , dear mother , says he , 'you shall be as near me as you can . 
So he took me with him on horseback to a plantation next to his own , and where I was as well entertained as I could have been in his own . 
The next morning my son came to visit me again almost as soon as I was up . 
, as he did another that was his father's , that lay hard by it , and went over himself three or four times a year to look after it . 
I asked him what he thought the plantation might be worth . 
But I leave the reader to improve these thoughts , as no doubt they will see cause , and I go on to the fact . 
My son's tender carriage and kind offers fetched tears from me , almost all the while he talked with me . 
And in the meantime , smiling , I asked him what made him continue a bachelor so long . 
This was the substance of our first day's conversation , the pleasantest day that ever passed over my head in my life , and which gave me the truest satisfaction . 
I told him I had nothing of any value to bestow but that , and I desired he would now and then kiss it for my sake . 
I did not indeed tell him that I had stole it from a gentlewoman's side , at a meeting house in London . 
At length he took it , kissed it , told me the watch should be a debt upon him that he would be paying as long as I lived . 
I stayed here about five weeks , and indeed had much ado to get away then . 
Nay , he would have come over the bay with me , but I would by no means allow him to it . 
However , he would send me over in a sloop of his own , which was built like a yacht , and served him as well for pleasure as business . 
As for myself , as this is to be my own story , not my husband's , I return to that part which related to myself . 
I ordered a good quantity of such household stuff as we yet wanted , with linen of all sorts for us both . 
As for myself , I wanted very little of clothes or linen , being very well furnished before . 
He was amazed , and stood a while telling upon his fingers , but said nothing . 
'And now , says he , 'a cargo cost in England , and worth here twice the money . 
He was perfectly easy in the account , and told me he should have been as easy if the old man , as we called him , had been alive . 
'For , said he , 'it was no fault of yours , nor of his it was a mistake impossible to be prevented . 
Thus all these difficulties were made easy , and we lived together with the greatest kindness and comfort imaginable . 
WRITTEN IN THE YEAR The bell at St . 
Sepulchre's , which tolls upon execution day . 
