Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
Heidegger's Experiment Legends of the Province House I. Howe's Masquerade II . 
It was but a doubtful whisper it might be false , or the attempt might fail and , in either case , the man that stirred against King James would lose his head . 
Still the intelligence produced a marked effect . 
Aware of their danger , the rulers resolved to avert it by an imposing display of strength , and perhaps to confirm their despotism by yet harsher measures . 
The sun was near setting when the march commenced . 
Old soldiers of the Parliament were here , too , smiling grimly at the thought that their aged arms might strike another blow against the house of Stuart . 
Several ministers were scattered among the crowd , which , unlike all other mobs , regarded them with such reverence , as if there were sanctity in their very garments . 
These holy men exerted their influence to quiet the people , but not to disperse them . 
Satan will strike his master stroke presently , cried some , because he knoweth that his time is short . 
It was actually fancied , at that period , that New England might have a John Rogers of her own to take the place of that worthy in the Primer . 
The Pope of Rome has given orders for a new St . 
We are to be massacred , man and male child ! Neither was this rumor wholly discredited , although the wiser class believed the Governor's object somewhat less atrocious . 
His predecessor under the old charter , Bradstreet , a venerable companion of the first settlers , was known to be in town . 
Stand firm for the old charter Governor ! shouted the crowd , seizing upon the idea . 
My children , concluded this venerable person , do nothing rashly . 
Cry not aloud , but pray for the welfare of New England , and expect patiently what the Lord will do in this matter ! The event was soon to be decided . 
Their steady march was like the progress of a machine , that would roll irresistibly over everything in its way . 
Those around him were his favorite councillors , and the bitterest foes of New England . 
On the other side was Bullivant , scattering jests and mockery as he rode along . 
The captain of a frigate in the harbor , and two or three civil officers under the Crown , were also there . 
Another guard of soldiers , in double rank , brought up the rear . 
And the mercenary soldiers , waiting but the word to deluge the street with blood , showed the only means by which obedience could be secured . 
The crowd had rolled back , and were now huddled together nearly at the extremity of the street , while the soldiers had advanced no more than a third of its length . 
The intervening space was empty a paved solitude , between lofty edifices , which threw almost a twilight shadow over it . 
He made a gesture at once of encouragement and warning , then turned again , and resumed his way . 
Who is this gray patriarch ? asked the young men of their sires . 
Who is this venerable brother ? asked the old men among themselves . 
But none could make reply . 
The elderly men ought to have remembered him , too , with locks as gray in their youth , as their own were now . 
Meanwhile , the venerable stranger , staff in hand , was pursuing his solitary walk along the centre of the street . 
Now , he marched onward with a warrior's step , keeping time to the military music . 
At the old man's word and outstretched arm , the roll of the drum was hushed at once , and the advancing line stood still . 
A tremulous enthusiasm seized upon the multitude . 
They raised a shout of awe and exultation , and looked for the deliverance of New England . 
He , however , blenched not a step , but glancing his severe eye round the group , which half encompassed him , at last bent it sternly on Sir Edmund Andros . 
What does this old fellow here ? cried Edward Randolph , fiercely . 
How dare you stay the march of King James's Governor ? I have stayed the march of a King himself , ere now , replied the gray figure , with stern composure . 
But his voice stirred their souls . 
They confronted the soldiers , not wholly without arms , and ready to convert the very stones of the street into deadly weapons . 
What were his thoughts , he uttered no word which might discover . 
But all agreed that the hoary shape was gone . 
I have heard , that whenever the descendants of the Puritans are to show the spirit of their sires , the old man appears again . 
When eighty years had passed , he walked once more in King Street . 
And when our fathers were toiling at the breastwork on Bunker's Hill , all through that night the old warrior walked his rounds . 
Long , long may it be , ere he comes again ! His hour is one of darkness , and adversity , and peril . 
That venerable lady chanced to be a spectator of the scene , and ever after made it her favorite narrative . 
With such a place , though the tumult of the city rolls beneath its tower , one would be willing to connect some legendary interest . 
But there was no need of this . 
His caprices had their origin in a mind that lacked the support of an engrossing purpose , and in feelings that preyed upon themselves for want of other food . 
If he were mad , it was the consequence , and not the cause , of an aimless and abortive life . 
The widow was as complete a contrast to her third bridegroom , in everything but age , as can well be conceived . 
A southern gentleman , considerably younger than herself , succeeded to her hand , and carried her to Charleston , where , after many uncomfortable years , she found herself again a widow . 
Sage in most matters , the widow was perhaps the more amiable for the one frailty that made her ridiculous . 
The approaching marriage of this woman of the world with such an unworldly man as Mr. Ellenwood was announced soon after Mrs. Dabney's return to her native city . 
But while people talked the wedding day arrived . 
It had been arranged , or possibly it was the custom of the day , that the parties should proceed separately to church . 
The whole group , except the principal figure , was made up of youth and gayety . 
So brilliant was the spectacle that few took notice of a singular phenomenon that had marked its entrance . 
At the moment when the bride's foot touched the threshold the bell swung heavily in the tower above her , and sent forth its deepest knell . 
The vibrations died away and returned with prolonged solemnity , as she entered the body of the church . 
Good heavens ! what an omen , whispered a young lady to her lover . 
On my honor , replied the gentleman , I believe the bell has the good taste to toll of its own accord . 
What has she to do with weddings ? If you , dearest Julia , were approaching the altar the bell would ring out its merriest peal . 
It has only a funeral knell for her . 
They therefore continued to advance with undiminished gayety . 
This time the party wavered , stopped , and huddled closer together , while a slight scream was heard from some of the ladies , and a confused whispering among the gentlemen . 
But her heroism was admirable . 
The bell continued to swing , strike , and vibrate , with the same doleful regularity as when a corpse is on its way to the tomb . 
My young friends here have their nerves a little shaken , said the widow , with a smile , to the clergyman at the altar . 
But so many weddings have been ushered in with the merriest peal of the bells , and yet turned out unhappily , that I shall hope for better fortune under such different auspices . 
Thus we may draw a sad but profitable moral from this funeral knell . 
The young have less charity for aged follies than the old for those of youth . 
Two buried men , with a voice at her ear , and a cry afar off , were calling her to lie down beside them . 
Immediately after , the footsteps of the bridegroom and his friends were heard at the door . 
The widow looked down the aisle , and clinched the arm of one of her bridemaids in her bony hand with such unconscious violence , that the fair girl trembled . 
You frighten me , my dear madam ! cried she . 
I am expecting my bridegroom to come into the church , with my first two husbands for groomsmen ! Look , look ! screamed the bridemaid . 
What is here ? The funeral ! As she spoke , a dark procession paced into the church . 
Behind appeared another , and another pair , as aged , as black , and mournful as the first . 
Many a merry night had she danced with them , in youth . 
Many turned away their faces others kept a fixed and rigid stare and a young girl giggled hysterically , and fainted with the laughter on her lips . 
The corpse stood motionless , but addressed the widow in accents that seemed to melt into the clang of the bell , which fell heavily on the air while he spoke . 
Come , my bride ! said those pale lips , the hearse is ready . 
The sexton stands waiting for us at the door of the tomb . 
Let us be married and then to our coffins ! How shall the widow's horror be represented ? It gave her the ghastliness of a dead man's bride . 
The awe struck silence was first broken by the clergyman . 
Mr. Ellenwood , said he , soothingly , yet with somewhat of authority , you are not well . 
Your mind has been agitated by the unusual circumstances in which you are placed . 
The ceremony must be deferred . 
As an old friend , let me entreat you to return home . 
Home ! yes , but not without my bride , answered he , in the same hollow accents . 
You deem this mockery perhaps madness . 
Had I bedizened my aged and broken frame with scarlet and embroidery had I forced my withered lips to smile at my dead heart that might have been mockery , or madness . 
None , that beheld them , could deny the terrible strength of the moral which his disordered intellect had contrived to draw . 
Cruel ! cruel ! groaned the heart stricken bride . 
At your summons I am here . 
But other husbands have enjoyed your youth , your beauty , your warmth of heart , and all that could be termed your life . 
It was not frenzy it was not merely the drunkenness of strong emotion , in a heart unused to it , that now wrought upon the bride . 
The stern lesson of the day had done its work her worldliness was gone . 
She seized the bridegroom's hand . 
Let us wed , even at the door of the sepulchre ! My life is gone in vanity and emptiness . 
But at its close there is one true feeling . 
It has made me what I was in youth it makes me worthy of you . 
Time is no more for both of us . 
Let us wed for Eternity ! With a long and deep regard , the bridegroom looked into her eyes , while a tear was gathering in his own . 
How strange that gush of human feeling from the frozen bosom of a corpse ! He wiped away the tears even with his shroud . 
Beloved of my youth , said he , I have been wild . 
The despair of my whole lifetime had returned at once , and maddened me . 
Yes it is evening with us now and we have realized none of our morning dreams of happiness . 
And when the awful rite was finished , and with cold hand in cold hand , the Married of Eternity withdrew , the organ's peal of solemn triumph drowned the Wedding Knell . 
In his case , however , the symbol had a different import . 
In early life he had accidentally killed a beloved friend , and from that day till the hour of his own death , he hid his face from men . 
The sexton stood in the porch of Milford meeting house , pulling busily at the bell rope . 
The old people of the village came stooping along the street . 
Children , with bright faces , tripped merrily beside their parents , or mimicked a graver gait , in the conscious dignity of their Sunday clothes . 
Spruce bachelors looked sidelong at the pretty maidens , and fancied that the Sabbath sunshine made them prettier than on week days . 
When the throng had mostly streamed into the porch , the sexton began to toll the bell , keeping his eye on the Reverend Mr. Hooper's door . 
The first glimpse of the clergyman's figure was the signal for the bell to cease its summons . 
But what has good Parson Hooper got upon his face ? cried the sexton in astonishment . 
All within hearing immediately turned about , and beheld the semblance of Mr. Hooper , pacing slowly his meditative way towards the meetinghouse . 
With one accord they started , expressing more wonder than if some strange minister were coming to dust the cushions of Mr. Hooper's pulpit . 
Are you sure it is our parson ? inquired Goodman Gray of the sexton . 
Of a certainty it is good Mr. Hooper , replied the sexton . 
He was to have exchanged pulpits with Parson Shute , of Westbury but Parson Shute sent to excuse himself yesterday , being to preach a funeral sermon . 
The cause of so much amazement may appear sufficiently slight . 
There was but one thing remarkable in his appearance . 
Swathed about his forehead , and hanging down over his face , so low as to be shaken by his breath , Mr. Hooper had on a black veil . 
But so wonder struck were they that his greeting hardly met with a return . 
I can't really feel as if good Mr. Hooper's face was behind that piece of crape , said the sexton . 
I don't like it , muttered an old woman , as she hobbled into the meeting house . 
He has changed himself into something awful , only by hiding his face . 
Our parson has gone mad ! cried Goodman Gray , following him across the threshold . 
A rumor of some unaccountable phenomenon had preceded Mr. Hooper into the meeting house , and set all the congregation astir . 
But Mr. Hooper appeared not to notice the perturbation of his people . 
It was strange to observe how slowly this venerable man became conscious of something singular in the appearance of his pastor . 
That mysterious emblem was never once withdrawn . 
Yet perhaps the pale faced congregation was almost as fearful a sight to the minister , as his black veil to them . 
The sermon which he now delivered was marked by the same characteristics of style and manner as the general series of his pulpit oratory . 
It was tinged , rather more darkly than usual , with the gentle gloom of Mr. Hooper's temperament . 
A subtle power was breathed into his words . 
Many spread their clasped hands on their bosoms . 
There was nothing terrible in what Mr. Hooper said , at least , no violence and yet , with every tremor of his melancholy voice , the hearers quaked . 
An unsought pathos came hand in hand with awe . 
After a brief interval , forth came good Mr. Hooper also , in the rear of his flock . 
Such was always his custom on the Sabbath day . 
Strange and bewildered looks repaid him for his courtesy . 
None , as on former occasions , aspired to the honor of walking by their pastor's side . 
A sad smile gleamed faintly from beneath the black veil , and flickered about his mouth , glimmering as he disappeared . 
But the strangest part of the affair is the effect of this vagary , even on a sober minded man like myself . 
The black veil , though it covers only our pastor's face , throws its influence over his whole person , and makes him ghostlike from head to foot . 
Do you not feel it so ? Truly do I , replied the lady and I would not be alone with him for the world . 
I wonder he is not afraid to be alone with himself ! Men sometimes are so , said her husband . 
The afternoon service was attended with similar circumstances . 
At its conclusion , the bell tolled for the funeral of a young lady . 
It was now an appropriate emblem . 
The clergyman stepped into the room where the corpse was laid , and bent over the coffin , to take a last farewell of his deceased parishioner . 
As he stooped , the veil hung straight down from his forehead , so that , if her eyelids had not been closed forever , the dead maiden might have seen his face . 
A superstitious old woman was the only witness of this prodigy . 
From the coffin Mr. Hooper passed into the chamber of the mourners , and thence to the head of the staircase , to make the funeral prayer . 
The bearers went heavily forth , and the mourners followed , saddening all the street , with the dead before them , and Mr. Hooper in his black veil behind . 
Why do you look back ? said one in the procession to his partner . 
I had a fancy , replied she , that the minister and the maiden's spirit were walking hand in hand . 
And so had I , at the same moment , said the other . 
That night , the handsomest couple in Milford village were to be joined in wedlock . 
Though reckoned a melancholy man , Mr. Hooper had a placid cheerfulness for such occasions , which often excited a sympathetic smile where livelier merriment would have been thrown away . 
There was no quality of his disposition which made him more beloved than this . 
The company at the wedding awaited his arrival with impatience , trusting that the strange awe , which had gathered over him throughout the day , would now be dispelled . 
But such was not the result . 
Such was its immediate effect on the guests that a cloud seemed to have rolled duskily from beneath the black crape , and dimmed the light of the candles . 
The bridal pair stood up before the minister . 
If ever another wedding were so dismal , it was that famous one where they tolled the wedding knell . 
At that instant , catching a glimpse of his figure in the looking glass , the black veil involved his own spirit in the horror with which it overwhelmed all others . 
His frame shuddered , his lips grew white , he spilt the untasted wine upon the carpet , and rushed forth into the darkness . 
For the Earth , too , had on her Black Veil . 
The next day , the whole village of Milford talked of little else than Parson Hooper's black veil . 
That , and the mystery concealed behind it , supplied a topic for discussion between acquaintances meeting in the street , and good women gossiping at their open windows . 
It was the first item of news that the tavern keeper told to his guests . 
The children babbled of it on their way to school . 
It was remarkable that all of the busybodies and impertinent people in the parish , not one ventured to put the plain question to Mr. Hooper , wherefore he did this thing . 
Hitherto , whenever there appeared the slightest call for such interference , he had never lacked advisers , nor shown himself averse to be guided by their judgment . 
If he erred at all , it was by so painful a degree of self distrust , that even the mildest censure would lead him to consider an indifferent action as a crime . 
Yet , though so well acquainted with this amiable weakness , no individual among his parishioners chose to make the black veil a subject of friendly remonstrance . 
Never did an embassy so ill discharge its duties . 
The minister received then with friendly courtesy , but became silent , after they were seated , leaving to his visitors the whole burden of introducing their important business . 
The topic , it might be supposed , was obvious enough . 
But that piece of crape , to their imagination , seemed to hang down before his heart , the symbol of a fearful secret between him and them . 
Were the veil but cast aside , they might speak freely of it , but not till then . 
Thus they sat a considerable time , speechless , confused , and shrinking uneasily from Mr. Hooper's eye , which they felt to be fixed upon them with an invisible glance . 
But there was one person in the village unappalled by the awe with which the black veil had impressed all beside herself . 
As his plighted wife , it should be her privilege to know what the black veil concealed . 
At the minister's first visit , therefore , she entered upon the subject with a direct simplicity , which made the task easier both for him and her . 
No , said she aloud , and smiling , there is nothing terrible in this piece of crape , except that it hides a face which I am always glad to look upon . 
Come , good sir , let the sun shine from behind the cloud . 
First lay aside your black veil then tell me why you put it on . 
Mr. Hooper's smile glimmered faintly . 
There is an hour to come , said he , when all of us shall cast aside our veils . 
Take it not amiss , beloved friend , if I wear this piece of crape till then . 
Your words are a mystery , too , returned the young lady . 
Take away the veil from them , at least . 
Elizabeth , I will , said he , so far as my vow may suffer me . 
No mortal eye will see it withdrawn . 
But what if the world will not believe that it is the type of an innocent sorrow ? urged Elizabeth . 
Beloved and respected as you are , there may be whispers that you hide your face under the consciousness of secret sin . 
But Mr. Hooper's mildness did not forsake him . 
He even smiled again that same sad smile , which always appeared like a faint glimmering of light , proceeding from the obscurity beneath the veil . 
At length Elizabeth sat silent . 
Though of a firmer character than his own , the tears rolled down her cheeks . 
She arose , and stood trembling before him . 
And do you feel it then , at last ? said he mournfully . 
She made no reply , but covered her eyes with her hand , and turned to leave the room . 
He rushed forward and caught her arm . 
Have patience with me , Elizabeth ! cried he , passionately . 
Do not desert me , though this veil must be between us here on earth . 
Do not leave me in this miserable obscurity forever ! Lift the veil but once , and look me in the face , said she . 
Never ! It cannot be ! replied Mr. Hooper . 
Then farewell ! said Elizabeth . 
From that time no attempts were made to remove Mr. Hooper's black veil , or , by a direct appeal , to discover the secret which it was supposed to hide . 
But with the multitude , good Mr. Hooper was irreparbly a bugbear . 
A fable went the rounds that the stare of the dead people drove him thence . 
Their instinctive dread caused him to feel more strongly than aught else , that a preternatural horror was interwoven with the threads of the black crape . 
This was what gave plausibility to the whispers , that Mr. Hooper's conscience tortured him for some great crime too horrible to be entirely concealed , or otherwise than so obscurely intimated . 
It was said that ghost and fiend consorted with him there . 
With self shudderings and outward terrors , he walked continually in its shadow , groping darkly within his own soul , or gazing through a medium that saddened the whole world . 
Even the lawless wind , it was believed , respected his dreadful secret , and never blew aside the veil . 
But still good Mr. Hooper sadly smiled at the pale visages of the worldly throng as he passed by . 
Among all its bad influences , the black veil had the one desirable effect , of making its wearer a very efficient clergyman . 
By the aid of his mysterious emblem for there was no other apparent cause he became a man of awful power over souls that were in agony for sin . 
Its gloom , indeed , enabled him to sympathize with all dark affections . 
But many were made to quake ere they departed ! Once , during Governor Belcher's administration , Mr. Hooper was appointed to preach the election sermon . 
As years wore on , shedding their snows above his sable veil , he acquired a name throughout the New England churches , and they called him Father Hooper . 
Several persons were visible by the shaded candlelight , in the death chamber of the old clergyman . 
Natural connections he had none . 
But there was the decorously grave , though unmoved physician , seeking only to mitigate the last pangs of the patient whom he could not save . 
There were the deacons , and other eminently pious members of his church . 
There , also , was the Reverend Mr. Clark , of Westbury , a young and zealous divine , who had ridden in haste to pray by the bedside of the expiring minister . 
There had been feverish turns , which tossed him from side to side , and wore away what little strength he had . 
The minister of Westbury approached the bedside . 
Venerable Father Hooper , said he , the moment of your release is at hand . 
Yea , said he , in faint accents , my soul hath a patient weariness until that veil be lifted . 
Never ! cried the veiled clergyman . 
And yet the faint , sad smile , so often there , now seemed to glimmer from its obscurity , and linger on Father Hooper's lips . 
Why do you tremble at me alone ? cried he , turning his veiled face round the circle of pale spectators . 
Still veiled , they laid him in his coffin , and a veiled corpse they bore him to the grave . 
In the slight sketch here attempted , the facts , recorded on the grave pages of our New England annalists , have wrought themselves , almost spontaneously , into a sort of allegory . 
The masques , mummeries , and festive customs , described in the text , are in accordance with the manners of the age . 
Authority on these points may be found in Strutt's Book of English Sports and Pastimes . 
Jollity and gloom were contending for an empire . 
Midsummer eve had come , bringing deep verdure to the forest , and roses in her lap , of a more vivid hue than the tender buds of Spring . 
Through a world of toil and care she flitted with a dreamlike smile , and came hither to find a home among the lightsome hearts of Merry Mount . 
Never had the Maypole been so gayly decked as at sunset on midsummer eve . 
This venerated emblem was a pine tree , which had preserved the slender grace of youth , while it equalled the loftiest height of the old wood monarchs . 
From its top streamed a silken banner , colored like the rainbow . 
Garden flowers , and blossoms of the wilderness , laughed gladly forth amid the verdure , so fresh and dewy that they must have grown by magic on that happy pine tree . 
Where this green and flowery splendor terminated , the shaft of the Maypole was stained with the seven brilliant hues of the banner at its top . 
These were Gothic monsters , though perhaps of Grecian ancestry . 
There was the likeness of a bear erect , brute in all but his hind legs , which were adorned with pink silk stockings . 
His inferior nature rose half way , to meet his companions as they stooped . 
Here might be seen the Savage Man , well known in heraldry , hairy as a baboon , and girdled with green leaves . 
By his side a noble figure , but still a counterfeit , appeared an Indian hunter , with feathery crest and wampum belt . 
Many of this strange company wore foolscaps , and had little bells appended to their garments , tinkling with a silvery sound , responsive to the inaudible music of their gleesome spirits . 
Some youths and maidens were of soberer garb , yet well maintained their places in the irregular throng by the expression of wild revelry upon their features . 
Such were the colonists of Merry Mount , as they stood in the broad smile of sunset round their venerated Maypole . 
But a band of Puritans , who watched the scene , invisible themselves , compared the masques to those devils and ruined souls with whom their superstition peopled the black wilderness . 
Within the ring of monsters appeared the two airiest forms that had ever trodden on any more solid footing than a purple and golden cloud . 
One was a youth in glistening apparel , with a scarf of the rainbow pattern crosswise on his breast . 
Bright roses glowed in contrast with the dark and glossy curls of each , and were scattered round their feet , or had sprung up spontaneously there . 
By the riot of his rolling eye , and the pagan decorations of his holy garb , he seemed the wildest monster there , and the very Comus of the crew . 
Votaries of the Maypole , cried the flower decked priest , merrily , all day long , have the woods echoed to your mirth . 
When the priest had spoken , therefore , a riotous uproar burst from the rout of monstrous figures . 
But the May Lord , he of the gilded staff , chancing to look into his Lady's eyes , was wonder struck at the almost pensive glance that met his own . 
Therefore do I sigh amid this festive music . 
What is the mystery in my heart ? Just then , as if a spell had loosened them , down came a little shower of withering rose leaves from the Maypole . 
From the moment that they truly loved , they had subjected themselves to earth's doom of care and sorrow , and troubled joy , and had no more a home at Merry Mount . 
Meanwhile , we may discover who these gay people were . 
Two hundred years ago , and more , the old world and its inhabitants became mutually weary of each other . 
But none of these motives had much weight with the colonists of Merry Mount . 
Erring Thought and perverted Wisdom were made to put on masques , and play the fool . 
The men of whom we speak , after losing the heart's fresh gayety , imagined a wild philosophy of pleasure , and came hither to act out their latest day dream . 
They gathered followers from all that giddy tribe whose whole life is like the festal days of soberer men . 
Light had their footsteps been on land , and as lightly they came across the sea . 
The young deemed themselves happy . 
The elder spirits , if they knew that mirth was but the counterfeit of happiness , yet followed the false shadow wilfully , because at least her garments glittered brightest . 
Sworn triflers of a lifetime , they would not venture among the sober truths of life not even to be truly blest . 
All the hereditary pastimes of Old England were transplanted hither . 
The King of Christmas was duly crowned , and the Lord of Misrule bore potent sway . 
On the Eve of St . 
John , they felled whole acres of the forest to make bonfires , and danced by the blaze all night , crowned with garlands , and throwing flowers into the flame . 
But what chiefly characterized the colonists of Merry Mount was their veneration for the Maypole . 
It has made their true history a poet's tale . 
Thus each alternate season did homage to the Maypole , and paid it a tribute of its own richest splendor . 
Unfortunately , there were men in the new world of a sterner faith than those Maypole worshippers . 
Their weapons were always at hand to shoot down the straggling savage . 
Their festivals were fast days , and their chief pastime the singing of psalms . 
Once , it is said , they were seen following a flower decked corpse , with merriment and festive music , to his grave . 
The future complexion of New England was involved in this important quarrel . 
But should the banner staff of Merry Mount be fortunate , sunshine would break upon the hills , and flowers would beautify the forest , and late posterity do homage to the Maypole . 
After these authentic passages from history , we return to the nuptials of the Lord and Lady of the May . 
Alas ! we have delayed too long , and must darken our tale too suddenly . 
As we glance again at the Maypole , a solitary sunbeam is fading from the summit , and leaves only a faint , golden tinge blended with the hues of the rainbow banner . 
Even that dim light is now withdrawn , relinquishing the whole domain of Merry Mount to the evening gloom , which has rushed so instantaneously from the black surrounding woods . 
But some of these black shadows have rushed forth in human shape . 
Yes , with the setting sun , the last day of mirth had passed from Merry Mount . 
The ring of gay masquers was disordered and broken the stag lowered his antlers in dismay the wolf grew weaker than a lamb the bells of the morris dancers tinkled with tremulous affright . 
The Puritans had played a characteristic part in the Maypole mummeries . 
The leader of the hostile party stood in the centre of the circle , while the route of monsters cowered around him , like evil spirits in the presence of a dread magician . 
No fantastic foolery could look him in the face . 
But now shall it be seen that the Lord hath sanctified this wilderness for his peculiar people . 
Mr. Blackstone , though an eccentric , is not known to have been an immoral man . 
We rather doubt his identity with the priest of Merry Mount . 
And with his keen sword Endicott assaulted the hallowed Maypole . 
Nor long did it resist his arm . 
Amen , saith John Endicott . 
Amen ! echoed his followers . 
But the votaries of the Maypole gave one groan for their idol . 
At the sound , the Puritan leader glanced at the crew of Comus , each a figure of broad mirth , yet , at this moment , strangely expressive of sorrow and dismay . 
It would have served rarely for a whipping post ! But there are pine trees enow , suggested the lieutenant . 
True , good Ancient , said the leader . 
Wherefore , bind the heathen crew , and bestow on them a small matter of stripes apiece , as earnest of our future justice . 
Set some of the rogues in the stocks to rest themselves , so soon as Providence shall bring us to one of our own well ordered settlements where such accommodations may be found . 
Further penalties , such as branding and cropping of ears , shall be thought of hereafter . 
How many stripes for the priest ? inquired Ancient Palfrey . 
None as yet , answered Endicott , bending his iron frown upon the culprit . 
It must be for the Great and General Court to determine , whether stripes and long imprisonment , and other grievous penalty , may atone for his transgressions . 
Let him look to himself ! For such as violate our civil order , it may be permitted us to show mercy . 
But woe to the wretch that troubleth our religion . 
And this dancing bear , resumed the officer . 
Must he share the stripes of his fellows ? Shoot him through the head ! said the energetic Puritan . 
I suspect witchcraft in the beast . 
Here be a couple of shining ones , continued Peter Palfrey , pointing his weapon at the Lord and Lady of the May . 
They seem to be of high station among these misdoers . 
Methinks their dignity will not be fitted with less than a double share of stripes . 
Endicott rested on his sword , and closely surveyed the dress and aspect of the hapless pair . 
There they stood , pale , downcast , and apprehensive . 
They looked first at each other , and then into the grim captain's face . 
But never had their youthful beauty seemed so pure and high as when its glow was chastened by adversity . 
Youth , said Endicott , ye stand in an evil case thou and thy maiden wife . 
Being powerless , I entreat ! Do with me as thou wilt , but let Edith go untouched ! Not so , replied the immitigable zealot . 
We are not wont to show an idle courtesy to that sex , which requireth the stricter discipline . 
Yet the deepening twilight could not altogether conceal that the iron man was softened he smiled at the fair spectacle of early love he almost sighed for the inevitable blight of early hopes . 
The troubles of life have come hastily on this young couple , observed Endicott . 
We will see how they comport themselves under their present trials ere we burden them with greater . 
If , among the spoil , there be any garments of a more decent fashion , let them be put upon this May Lord and his Lady , instead of their glistening vanities . 
Look to it , some of you . 
And shall not the youth's hair be cut ? asked Peter Palfrey , looking with abhorrence at the lovelock and long glossy curls of the young man . 
Crop it forthwith , and that in the true pumpkin shell fashion , answered the captain . 
Then bring them along with us , but more gently than their fellows . 
It was a deed of prophecy . 
As the moral gloom of the world overpowers all systematic gayety , even so was their home of wild mirth made desolate amid the sad forest . 
They returned to it no more . 
They went heavenward , supporting each other along the difficult path which it was their lot to tread , and never wasted one regretful thought on the vanities of Merry Mount . 
Their reputation , as holders of mystic and pernicious principles , having spread before them , the Puritans early endeavored to banish , and to prevent the further intrusion of the rising sect . 
But the measures by which it was intended to purge the land of heresy , though more than sufficiently vigorous , were entirely unsuccessful . 
The Quakers , whose revengeful feelings were not less deep because they were inactive , remembered this man and his associates in after times . 
The autumn wind wandered among the branches , whirling away the leaves from all except the pine trees , and moaning as if it lamented the desolation of which it was the instrument . 
He struggled however , against the superstitious fears which belonged to the age , and compelled himself to pause and listen . 
The voice is most likely mortal , nor have I cause to tremble if it be otherwise , thought he , straining his eyes through the dim moonlight . 
Methinks it is like the wailing of a child some infant , it may be , which has strayed from its mother , and chanced upon this place of death . 
For the ease of mine own conscience I must search this matter out . 
He therefore left the path , and walked somewhat fearfully across the field . 
Under this unhappy tree , which in after times was believed to drop poison with its dew , sat the one solitary mourner for innocent blood . 
The Puritan , whose approach had been unperceived , laid his hand upon the child's shoulder , and addressed him compassionately . 
You have chosen a dreary lodging , my poor boy , and no wonder that you weep , said he . 
But dry your eyes , and tell me where your mother dwells . 
I promise you , if the journey be not too far , I will leave you in her arms to night . 
The boy had hushed his wailing at once , and turned his face upward to the stranger . 
It was a pale , bright eyed countenance , certainly not more than six years old , but sorrow , fear , and want had destroyed much of its infantile expression . 
The Puritan seeing the boy's frightened gaze , and feeling that he trembled under his hand , endeavored to reassure him . 
Nay , if I intended to do you harm , little lad , the readiest way were to leave you here . 
What ! you do not fear to sit beneath the gallows on a new made grave , and yet you tremble at a friend's touch . 
But perceiving that the apparition stood the test of a short mental prayer , and remembering that the arm which he had touched was lifelike , he adopted a more rational supposition . 
The poor child is stricken in his intellect , thought he , but verily his words are fearful in a place like this . 
He then spoke soothingly , intending to humor the boy's fantasy . 
Your home will scarce be comfortable , Ilbrahim , this cold autumn night , and I fear you are ill provided with food . 
My father was of the people whom all men hate . 
They have laid him under this heap of earth , and here is my home . 
The Puritan , who had laid hold of little Ilbrahim's hand , relinquished it as if he were touching a loathsome reptile . 
But he possessed a compassionate heart , which not even religious prejudice could harden into stone . 
God forbid that I should leave this child to perish , though he comes of the accursed sect , said he to himself . 
He then spoke aloud and kindly to Ilbrahim , who had again hid his face in the cold earth of the grave . 
I knew that my father was sleeping here , and I said this shall be my home . 
No , child , no not while I have a roof over my head , or a morsel to share with you ! exclaimed the Puritan , whose sympathies were now fully excited . 
Rise up and come with me , and fear not any harm . 
The boy wept afresh , and clung to the heap of earth as if the cold heart beneath it were warmer to him than any in a living breast . 
The traveller , however , continued to entreat him tenderly , and seeming to acquire some degree of confidence , he at length arose . 
But his slender limbs tottered with weakness , his little head grew dizzy , and he leaned against the tree of death for support . 
My poor boy , are you so feeble ? said the Puritan . 
Trouble not thyself for my hunger , kind friend , for I have lacked food many times ere now . 
The traveller took the child in his arms and wrapped his cloak about him , while his heart stirred with shame and anger against the gratuitous cruelty of the instruments in this persecution . 
In the awakened warmth of his feelings he resolved that , at whatever risk , he would not forsake the poor little defenceless being whom Heaven had confided to his care . 
With this determination he left the accursed field , and resumed the homeward path from which the wailing of the boy had called him . 
It was surrounded by a considerable extent of cultivated ground , and the dwelling was situated in the nook of a wood covered hill , whither it seemed to have crept for protection . 
Look up , child , said the Puritan to Ilbrahim , whose faint head had sunk upon his shoulder , there is our home . 
At the word home , a thrill passed through the child's frame , but he continued silent . 
Farther back in the passage way , the red blaze discovered a matronly woman , but no little crowd of children came bounding forth to greet their father's return . 
As the Puritan entered , he thrust aside his cloak , and displayed Ilbrahim's face to the female . 
Dorothy , here is a little outcast , whom Providence hath put into our hands , observed he . 
Be kind to him , even as if he were of those dear ones who have departed from us . 
What pale and bright eyed little boy is this , Tobias ? she inquired . 
Is he one whom the wilderness folk have ravished from some Christian mother ? No , Dorothy , this poor child is no captive from the wilderness , he replied . 
The heathen savage would have given him to eat of his scanty morsel , and to drink of his birchen cup but Christian men , alas , had cast him out to die . 
Dorothy was gifted with even a quicker tenderness than her husband , and she approved of all his doings and intentions . 
Have you a mother , dear child ? she inquired . 
She had been taken from the prison a short time before , carried into the uninhabited wilderness , and left to perish there by hunger or wild beasts . 
This was no uncommon method of disposing of the Quakers , and they were accustomed to boast that the inhabitants of the desert were more hospitable to them than civilized man . 
Fear not , little boy , you shall not need a mother , and a kind one , said Dorothy , when she had gathered this information . 
Dry your tears , Ilbrahim , and be my child , as I will be your mother . 
The good woman prepared the little bed , from which her own children had successively been borne to another resting place . 
Tobias Pearson was not among the earliest emigrants from the old country . 
He had remained in England during the first years of the civil war , in which he had borne some share as a cornet of dragoons , under Cromwell . 
To this supposed impurity of motive the more bigoted Puritans were inclined to impute the removal by death of all the children , for whose earthly good the father had been over thoughtful . 
They had left their native country blooming like roses , and like roses they had perished in a foreign soil . 
Their antipathy to the poor infant was also increased by the ill success of divers theological discussions , in which it was attempted to convince him of the errors of his sect . 
The common people manifested their opinions more openly . 
On the second Sabbath after Ilbrahim became a member of their family , Pearson and his wife deemed it proper that he should appear with them at public worship . 
As the parish was then , and during many subsequent years , unprovided with a bell , the signal for the commencement of religious exercises was the beat of a drum . 
As they entered the door , they overheard the muttered sentiments of the assemblage , and when the reviling voices of the little children smote Ilbrahim's ear , he wept . 
The interior aspect of the meeting house was rude . 
Pearson and Dorothy separated at the door of the meeting house , and Ilbrahim , being within the years of infancy , was retained under the care of the latter . 
The exercises had not yet commenced , however , when the boy's attention was arrested by an event , apparently of trifling interest . 
Ilbrahim's faint color varied , his nerves fluttered , he was unable to turn his eyes from the muffled female . 
When the preliminary prayer and hymn were over , the minister arose , and having turned the hour glass which stood by the great Bible , commenced his discourse . 
He was now well stricken in years , a man of pale , thin countenance , and his gray hairs were closely covered by a black velvet skullcap . 
In his younger days he had practically learned the meaning of persecution from Archbishop Laud , and he was not now disposed to forget the lesson against which he had murmured then . 
He spoke of the danger of pity , in some cases a commendable and Christian virtue , but inapplicable to this pernicious sect . 
He observed that such was their devilish obstinacy in error , that even the little children , the sucking babes , were hardened and desperate heretics . 
The sands of the second hour were principally in the lower half of the glass when the sermon concluded . 
She then divested herself of the cloak and hood , and appeared in a most singular array . 
At length , when her fit of inspiration came , she spoke , for the first few moments , in a low voice , and not invariably distinct utterance . 
But the course of her unearthly eloquence soon led her to the persecutions of her sect , and from thence the step was short to her own peculiar sorrows . 
Her voice was succeeded by the hysteric shrieks of several women , but the feelings of the audience generally had not been drawn onward in the current with her own . 
They remained stupefied , stranded as it were , in the midst of a torrent , which deafened them by its roaring , but might not move them by its violence . 
The clergyman , who could not hitherto have ejected the usurper of his pulpit otherwise than by bodily force , now addressed her in the tone of just indignation and legitimate authority . 
Get you down , woman , from the holy place which you profane , he said . 
I have done my mission unto thee and to thy people . 
Reward me with stripes , imprisonment , or death , as ye shall be permitted . 
The weakness of exhausted passion caused her steps to totter as she descended the pulpit stairs . 
The people , in the mean while , were stirring to and fro on the floor of the house , whispering among themselves , and glancing towards the intruder . 
Scarcely did her feet press the floor , however , when an unexpected scene occurred . 
In that moment of her peril , when every eye frowned with death , a little timid boy pressed forth , and threw his arms round his mother . 
I am here , mother it is I , and I will go with thee to prison , he exclaimed . 
She feared , perhaps , that it was but one of the happy visions with which her excited fancy had often deceived her , in the solitude of the desert or in prison . 
But when she felt his hand warm within her own , and heard his little eloquence of childish love , she began to know that she was yet a mother . 
Blessed art thou , my son , she sobbed . 
My heart was withered yea , dead with thee and with thy father and now it leaps as in the first moment when I pressed thee to my bosom . 
The sorrows of past years , and the darker peril that was nigh , cast not a shadow on the brightness of that fleeting moment . 
Soon , however , the spectators saw a change upon her face , as the consciousness of her sad estate returned , and grief supplied the fount of tears which joy had opened . 
In a doleful hour art thou returned to me , poor boy , she said , for thy mother's path has gone darkening onward , till now the end is death . 
Thou wilt go seeking through the world , and find all hearts closed against thee and their sweet affections turned to bitterness for my sake . 
A low and interrupted moan was the voice of her heart's anguish , and it did not fail to move the sympathies of many who mistook their involuntary virtue for a sin . 
Sobs were audible in the female section of the house , and every man who was a father drew his hand across his eyes . 
Dorothy , however , had watched her husband's eye . 
Her mind was free from the influence that had begun to work on his , and she drew near the Quaker woman , and addressed her in the hearing of all the congregation . 
Stranger , trust this boy to me , and I will be his mother , she said , taking Ilbrahim's hand . 
Leave the tender child with us , and be at ease concerning his welfare . 
The Quaker rose from the ground , but drew the boy closer to her , while she gazed earnestly in Dorothy's face . 
Her mild but saddened features , and neat matronly attire , harmonized together , and were like a verse of fireside poetry . 
The two females , as they held each a hand of Ilbrahim , formed a practical allegory it was rational piety and unbridled fanaticism contending for the empire of a young heart . 
Thou art not of our people , said the Quaker , mournfully . 
No , we are not of your people , replied Dorothy , with mildness , but we are Christians , looking upward to the same heaven with you . 
Doubt not that your boy shall meet you there , if there be a blessing on our tender and prayerful guidance of him . 
But will ye lead him in the path which his parents have trodden ? demanded the Quaker . 
Were we to act otherwise , we should abuse your trust , even in complying with your wishes . 
The mother looked down upon her boy with a troubled countenance , and then turned her eyes upward to heaven . 
She seemed to pray internally , and the contention of her soul was evident . 
Friend , she said at length to Dorothy , I doubt not that my son shall receive all earthly tenderness at thy hands . 
Nay , I will believe that even thy imperfect lights may guide him to a better world , for surely thou art on the path thither . 
But thou hast spoken of a husband . 
Doth he stand here among this multitude of people ? Let him come forth , for I must know to whom I commit this most precious trust . 
She turned her face upon the male auditors , and after a momentary delay , Tobias Pearson came forth from among them . 
As she gazed , an unmirthful smile spread over her features , like sunshine that grows melancholy in some desolate spot . 
Her lips moved inaudibly , but at length she spake . 
I hear it , I hear it . 
The voice speaketh within me and saith , 'Leave thy child , Catharine , for his place is here , and go hence , for I have other work for thee . 
Break the bonds of natural affection , martyr thy love , and know that in all these things eternal wisdom hath its ends . 
I go , friends I go . 
Take ye my boy , my precious jewel . 
I go hence , trusting that all shall be well , and that even for his infant hands there is a labor in the vineyard . 
Having held her hands over his head in mental prayer , she was ready to depart . 
And farewell ye , mine enemies , to whom it is not permitted to harm so much as a hair of my head , nor to stay my footsteps even for a moment . 
The day is coming when ye shall call upon me to witness for ye to this one sin uncommitted , and I will rise up and answer . 
She turned her steps towards the door , and the men , who had stationed themselves to guard it , withdrew , and suffered her to pass . 
A general sentiment of pity overcame the virulence of religious hatred . 
Sanctified by her love and her affliction , she went forth , and all the people gazed after her till she had journeyed up the hill , and was lost behind its brow . 
She went , the apostle of her own unquiet heart , to renew the wanderings of past years . 
It was in many respects a beautiful one , yet the disordered imaginations of both his father and mother had perhaps propagated a certain unhealthiness in the mind of the boy . 
On the other hand , as the susceptibility of pleasure is also that of pain , the exuberant cheerfulness of the boy's prevailing temper sometimes yielded to moments of deep depression . 
The flightiness of his mirth rendered him often guilty of offences against the decorum of a Puritan household , and on these occasions he did not invariably escape rebuke . 
Of the malice , which generally accompanies a superfluity of sensitiveness , Ilbrahim was altogether destitute when trodden upon , he would not turn when wounded , he could but die . 
Dorothy's acuteness taught her that severity would crush the spirit of the child , and she nurtured him with the gentle care of one who handles a butterfly . 
Her husband manifested an equal affection , although it grew daily less productive of familiar caresses . 
As the sufferer's own home was at some distance , Dorothy willingly received him under her roof , and became his tender and careful nurse . 
Ilbrahim was the unconscious possessor of much skill in physiognomy , and it would have deterred him , in other circumstances , from attempting to make a friend of this boy . 
As the boy became convalescent , Ilbrahim contrived games suitable to his situation , or amused him by a faculty which he had perhaps breathed in with the air of his barbaric birthplace . 
It was that of reciting imaginary adventures , on the spur of the moment , and apparently in inexhaustible succession . 
The boy's parents at length removed him , to complete his cure under their own roof . 
But it happened that an unexpected addition was made to the heavenly little band . 
The poor child's arms had been raised to guard his head from the storm of blows but now he dropped them at once . 
The uproar , however , attracted the notice of a few neighbors , who put themselves to the trouble of rescuing the little heretic , and of conveying him to Pearson's door . 
Ilbrahim's bodily harm was severe , but long and careful nursing accomplished his recovery the injury done to his sensitive spirit was more serious , though not so visible . 
Its signs were principally of a negative character , and to be discovered only by those who had previously known him . 
While this melancholy change had taken place in Ilbrahim , one of an earlier origin and of different character had come to its perfection in his adopted father . 
The incident with which this tale commences found Pearson in a state of religious dulness , yet mentally disquieted , and longing for a more fervid faith than he possessed . 
Such was his state of mind at the period of Ilbrahim's misfortune and the emotions consequent upon that event completed the change , of which the child had been the original instrument . 
In the mean time , neither the fierceness of the persecutors , nor the infatuation of their victims , had decreased . 
A winter evening , a night of storm , had darkened over Pearson's habitation , and there were no cheerful faces to drive the gloom from his broad hearth . 
But the Holy Book remained , and the table on which it rested was drawn before the fire , while two of the persecuted sect sought comfort from its pages . 
The hale and weather beaten old man who sat beside him had sustained less injury from a far longer course of the same mode of life . 
The Quaker at length closed the book , retaining however his hand between the pages which he had been reading , while he looked steadfastly at Pearson . 
Yea , and when I have hearkened carefully the words seemed cold and lifeless , and intended for another and a lesser grief than mine . 
Remove the book , he added , in a tone of sullen bitterness . 
I have no part in its consolations , and they do but fret my sorrow the more . 
Nay , feeble brother , be not as one who hath never known the light , said the elder Quaker earnestly , but with mildness . 
It is heavy ! It is heavier than I can bear ! exclaimed Pearson , with the impatience of a variable spirit . 
All this I could have borne , and counted myself blessed . 
Verily , I am an accursed man , and I will lay me down in the dust and lift up my head no more . 
He continued , perhaps in the hope of distracting his companion's thoughts from his own sorrows . 
As we went on Have I not borne all this and have I murmured ? interrupted Pearson impatiently . 
Nay , friend but hear me , continued the other . 
Then came bitter thoughts upon me yea , remembrances that were like death to my soul . 
The happiness of my early days was painted to me the disquiet of my manhood , the altered faith of my declining years . 
Yea , yea , replied the old man hurriedly . 
I was kneeling by her bedside when the voice spoke loud within me but immediately I rose , and took my staff , and gat me gone . 
My prayer was heard , and I went on in peace and joy towards the wilderness . 
They sat in silence , with their faces to the fire , imagining , perhaps , in its red embers new scenes of persecution yet to be encountered . 
The snow still drifted hard against the windows , and sometimes , as the blaze of the logs had gradually sunk , came down the spacious chimney and hissed upon the hearth . 
A cautious footstep might now and then be heard in a neighboring apartment , and the sound invariably drew the eyes of both Quakers to the door which led thither . 
When a fierce and riotous gust of wind had led his thoughts , by a natural association , to homeless travellers on such a night , Pearson resumed the conversation . 
Her wounds have been deep and many , but this will be the sorest of all . 
Fear not for Catharine , replied the old Quaker , for I know that valiant woman , and have seen how she can bear the cross . 
The boy hath done his work , and she will feel that he is taken hence in kindness both to him and her . 
The men of blood have come to seek me , he observed with calmness . 
They have heard how I was moved to return from banishment and now am I to be led to prison , and thence to death . 
It is an end I have long looked for . 
I will open unto them , lest they say , 'Lo , he feareth ! Nay , I will present myself before them , said Pearson , with recovered fortitude . 
It may be that they seek me alone , and know not that thou abidest with me . 
Let us go boldly , both one and the other , rejoined his companion . 
It is not fitting that thou or I should shrink . 
Enter , friend , and do thy errand , be it what it may , said Pearson . 
It must needs be pressing , since thou comest on such a bitter night . 
Peace be with this household , said the stranger , when they stood on the floor of the inner apartment . 
Rejoice , friends ! she replied . 
The heart of the king , even Charles , hath been moved in gentleness towards us , and he hath sent forth his letters to stay the hands of the men of blood . 
A ship's company of our friends hath arrived at yonder town , and I also sailed joyfully among them . 
As Catharine spoke , her eyes were roaming about the room , in search of him for whose sake security was dear to her . 
Pearson made a silent appeal to the old man , nor did the latter shrink from the painful task assigned him . 
Sister ! go on rejoicing , for his tottering footsteps shall impede thine own no more . 
But the unhappy mother was not thus to be consoled she shook like a leaf , she turned white as the very snow that hung drifted into her hair . 
The firm old man extended his hand and held her up , keeping his eye upon hers , as if to repress any outbreak of passion . 
I am a woman , I am but a woman will He try me above my strength ? said Catharine very quickly , and almost in a whisper . 
I have been wounded sore I have suffered much many things in the body many in the mind crucified in myself , and in them that were dearest to me . 
Surely , added she , with a long shudder , He hath spared me in this one thing . 
She broke forth with sudden and irrepressible violence . 
On this day it had become evident to Pearson , to his aged guest , and to Dorothy , that Ilbrahim's brief and troubled pilgrimage drew near its close . 
Ilbrahim then closed his eyes and grew calm , and , except for now and then a kind and low word to his nurse , might have been thought to slumber . 
But , after a little time , he relinquished whatever secret hope had agitated him , and with one low , complaining whisper , turned his cheek upon the pillow . 
Friend , she is come ! Open unto her ! cried he . 
He looked into her face , and reading its agony , said , with feeble earnestness , Mourn not , dearest mother . 
And with these words the gentle boy was dead . 
But in process of time a more Christian spirit a spirit of forbearance , though not of cordiality or approbation began to pervade the land in regard to the persecuted sect . 
It being nearly seven o'clock , he was as eager to hold a morning gossip as a city shopkeeper to read the morning paper . 
Dominicus watched him as he descended , and noticed that he carried a bundle over his shoulder on the end of a stick , and travelled with a weary , yet determined pace . 
He did not look as if he had started in the freshness of the morning , but had footed it all night , and meant to do the same all day . 
Good morning , mister , said Dominicus , when within speaking distance . 
You go a pretty good jog . 
Well then , rejoined Dominicus Pike , let's have the latest news where you did come from . 
I'm not particular about Parker's Falls . 
At last , mounting on the step of the cart , he whispered in the ear of Dominicus , though he might have shouted aloud and no other mortal would have heard him . 
I do remember one little trifle of news , said he . 
Old Mr. Higginbotham , of Kimballton , was murdered in his orchard , at eight o'clock last night , by an Irishman and a nigger . 
They strung him up to the branch of a St . 
Michael's pear tree , where nobody would find him till the morning . 
He was rather astonished at the rapidity with which the news had spread . 
The stranger on foot must have worn seven league boots to travel at such a rate . 
Ill news flies fast , they say , thought Dominicus Pike but this beats railroads . 
The fellow ought to be hired to go express with the President's Message . 
He met with one piece of corroborative evidence . 
His property would descend to a pretty niece who was now keeping school in Kimballton . 
There were as many as twenty people in the room , nineteen of whom received it all for gospel . 
But the twentieth was an elderly farmer , who had arrived on horseback a short time before , and was now seated in a corner smoking his pipe . 
So I can't take my oath that he was murdered exactly in that way . 
But I can take mine , said the farmer , that if Squire Higginbotham was murdered night before last , I drank a glass of bitters with his ghost this morning . 
He didn't seem to know any more about his own murder than I did . 
Why , then , it can't be a fact ! exclaimed Dominicus Pike . 
I guess he'd have mentioned , if it was , said the old farmer and he removed his chair back to the corner , leaving Dominicus quite down in the mouth . 
, Dominicus rose in the gray of the morning , put the little mare into the green cart , and trotted swiftly away towards Parker's Falls . 
Good morning , mister , said the pedlar , reining in his mare . 
If you come from Kimballton or that neighborhood , may be you can tell me the real fact about this affair of old Mr. Higginbotham . 
I came away at seven ! His folks can't have looked for him in the orchard yet . 
Dominicus stared after him in great perplexity . 
But let the poor devil go , thought the pedlar . 
I don't want his black blood on my head and hanging the nigger wouldn't unhang Mr. Higginbotham . 
His second duty , of course , was to impart Mr. Higginbotham's catastrophe to the hostler . 
Neither did he profess to relate it on his own authority , or that of any one person but mentioned it as a report generally diffused . 
The story ran through the town like fire among girdled trees , and became so much the universal talk that nobody could tell whence it had originated . 
Mr. Higginbotham was as well known at Parker's Falls as any citizen of the place , being part owner of the slitting mill , and a considerable stockholder in the cotton factories . 
The inhabitants felt their own prosperity interested in his fate . 
Michael's pear tree with his pockets inside out . 
The village poet likewise commemorated the young lady's grief in seventeen stanzas of a ballad . 
Had Mr. Higginbotham cared about posthumous renown , his untimely ghost would have exulted in this tumult . 
It had travelled all night , and must have shifted horses at Kimballton , at three in the morning . 
Now we shall hear all the particulars , shouted the crowd . 
The pedlar , foremost in the race , discovered two passengers , both of whom had been startled from a comfortable nap to find themselves in the centre of a mob . 
Every man assailing them with separate questions , all propounded at once , the couple were struck speechless , though one was a lawyer and the other a young lady . 
Mr. Higginbotham ! Mr. Higginbotham ! Tell us the particulars about old Mr. Higginbotham ! bawled the mob . 
We passed through Kimballton at three o'clock this morning , and most certainly should have been informed of the murder had any been perpetrated . 
But I have proof nearly as strong as Mr. Higginbotham's own oral testimony , in the negative . 
Here is a note relating to a suit of his in the Connecticut courts , which was delivered me from that gentleman himself . 
I find it dated at ten o'clock last evening . 
But unexpected evidence was forthcoming . 
Good people , said she , I am Mr. Higginbotham's niece . 
But some shrewd fellows had doubted , all along , whether a young lady would be quite so desperate at the hanging of a rich old uncle . 
He has the kindness to give me a home in his house , though I contribute to my own support by teaching a school . 
I left Kimballton this morning to spend the vacation of commencement week with a friend , about five miles from Parker's Falls . 
He then laid his pocketbook under his pillow , shook hands with me , and advised me to take some biscuit in my bag , instead of breakfasting on the road . 
I feel confident , therefore , that I left my beloved relative alive , and trust that I shall find him so on my return . 
The selectmen , by advice of the lawyer , spoke of prosecuting him for a misdemeanor , in circulating unfounded reports , to the great disturbance of the peace of the Commonwealth . 
Nothing saved Dominicus , either from mob law or a court of justice , but an eloquent appeal made by the young lady in his behalf . 
However , the sun shone bright on poor Dominicus , and the mud , an emblem of all stains of undeserved opprobrium , was easily brushed off when dry . 
Being a funny rogue , his heart soon cheered up nor could he refrain from a hearty laugh at the uproar which his story had excited . 
Dominicus was now on the Kimballton turnpike , having all along determined to visit that place , though business had drawn him out of the most direct road from Morristown . 
As he approached the scene of the supposed murder , he continued to revolve the circumstances in his mind , and was astonished at the aspect which the whole case assumed . 
It was growing dusk when he reached the toll house on Kimballton turnpike , about a quarter of a mile from the village of this name . 
Dominicus was acquainted with the tollman , and , while making change , the usual remarks on the weather passed between them . 
He passed the gate just before you drove up , and yonder he rides now , if you can see him through the dusk . 
He's been to Woodfield this afternoon , attending a sheriff's sale there . 
So they tell me , said Dominicus . 
I never saw a man look so yellow and thin as the squire does , continued the toll gatherer . 
Says I to myself , to night , he's more like a ghost or an old mummy than good flesh and blood . 
The pedlar strained his eyes through the twilight , and could just discern the horseman now far ahead on the village road . 
Mr. Higginbotham has come back from the other world , by way of the Kimballton turnpike , thought he . 
He shook the reins and rode forward , keeping about the same distance in the rear of the gray old shadow , till the latter was concealed by a bend of the road . 
These were the premises of Mr. Higginbotham , whose dwelling stood beside the old highway , but had been left in the background by the Kimballton turnpike . 
Dominicus knew the place and the little mare stopped short by instinct for he was not conscious of tightening the reins . 
For the soul of me , I cannot get by this gate ! said he , trembling . 
I never shall be my own man again , till I see whether Mr. Higginbotham is hanging on the St . 
One great branch stretched from the old contorted trunk across the path , and threw the darkest shadow on that one spot . 
Certain it is , however , that he rushed forward , prostrated a sturdy Irishman with the butt end of his whip , and found not indeed hanging on the St . 
The fact , thus abstractedly stated , is not very uncommon , nor without a proper distinction of circumstances to be condemned either as naughty or nonsensical . 
The wedded couple lived in London . 
During that period , he beheld his home every day , and frequently the forlorn Mrs. Wakefield . 
This outline is all that I remember . 
But the incident , though of the purest originality , unexampled , and probably never to be repeated , is one , I think , which appeals to the generous sympathies of mankind . 
We know , each for himself , that none of us would perpetrate such a folly , yet feel as if some other might . 
Whenever any subject so forcibly affects the mind , time is well spent in thinking of it . 
Thought has always its efficacy , and every striking incident its moral . 
What sort of a man was Wakefield ? We are free to shape out our own idea , and call it by his name . 
Imagination , in the proper meaning of the term , made no part of Wakefield's gifts . 
Only the wife of his bosom might have hesitated . 
This latter quality is indefinable , and perhaps non existent . 
Let us now imagine Wakefield bidding adieu to his wife . 
It is the dusk of an October evening . 
His equipment is a drab great coat , a hat covered with an oilcloth , top boots , an umbrella in one hand and a small portmanteau in the other . 
He has informed Mrs. Wakefield that he is to take the night coach into the country . 
Wakefield himself , be it considered , has no suspicion of what is before him . 
For the time , this little incident is dismissed without a thought . 
But , long afterwards , when she has been more years a widow than a wife , that smile recurs , and flickers across all her reminiscences of Wakefield's visage . 
Yet , for its sake , when all others have given him up for dead , she sometimes doubts whether she is a widow . 
But our business is with the husband . 
We must hurry after him along the street , ere he lose his individuality , and melt into the great mass of London life . 
It would be vain searching for him there . 
He is in the next street to his own , and at his journey's end . 
Doubtless , a dozen busybodies had been watching him , and told his wife the whole affair . 
Poor Wakefield ! Little knowest thou thine own insignificance in this great world ! No mortal eye but mine has traced thee . 
Go quietly to thy bed , foolish man and , on the morrow , if thou wilt be wise , get thee home to good Mrs. Wakefield , and tell her the truth . 
Remove not thyself , even for a little week , from thy place in her chaste bosom . 
No , thinks he , gathering the bedclothes about him , I will not sleep alone another night . 
In the morning he rises earlier than usual , and sets himself to consider what he really means to do . 
The vagueness of the project , and the convulsive effort with which he plunges into the execution of it , are equally characteristic of a feeble minded man . 
A morbid vanity , therefore , lies nearest the bottom of the affair . 
Yet , should he reappear , the whole project is knocked in the head . 
Wakefield ! whither are you going ? At that instant his fate was turning on the pivot . 
In ordinary cases , this indescribable impression is caused by the comparison and contrast between our imperfect reminiscences and the reality . 
In Wakefield , the magic of a single night has wrought a similar transformation , because , in that brief period , a great moral change has been effected . 
But this is a secret from himself . 
Before leaving the spot , he catches a far and momentary glimpse of his wife , passing athwart the front window , with her face turned towards the head of the street . 
The crafty nincompoop takes to his heels , scared with the idea that , among a thousand such atoms of mortality , her eye must have detected him . 
Right glad is his heart , though his brain be somewhat dizzy , when he finds himself by the coal fire of his lodgings . 
So much for the commencement of this long whimwham . 
After the initial conception , and the stirring up of the man's sluggish temperament to put it in practice , the whole matter evolves itself in a natural train . 
The new system being now established , a retrograde movement to the old would be almost as difficult as the step that placed him in his unparalleled position . 
He will not go back until she be frightened half to death . 
Next day the knocker is muffled . 
If aught else restrains him , he does not know it . 
Such ideas glimmer through the midst of Wakefield's mind , and render him indistinctly conscious that an almost impassable gulf divides his hired apartment from his former home . 
It is but in the next street ! he sometimes says . 
Fool ! it is in another world . 
Hitherto , he has put off his return from one particular day to another henceforward , he leaves the precise time undetermined . 
Not tomorrow probably next week pretty soon . 
Poor man ! The dead have nearly as much chance of revisiting their earthly homes as the self banished Wakefield . 
Long since , it must be remarked , he had lost the perception of singularity in his conduct . 
He is meagre his low and narrow forehead is deeply wrinkled his eyes , small and lustreless , sometimes wander apprehensively about him , but oftener seem to look inward . 
He bends his head , and moves with an indescribable obliquity of gait , as if unwilling to display his full front to the world . 
Watch him long enough to see what we have described , and you will allow that circumstances which often produce remarkable men from nature's ordinary handiwork have produced one such here . 
She has the placid mien of settled widowhood . 
Her regrets have either died away , or have become so essential to her heart , that they would be poorly exchanged for joy . 
Just as the lean man and well conditioned woman are passing , a slight obstruction occurs , and brings these two figures directly in contact . 
Their hands touch the pressure of the crowd forces her bosom against his shoulder they stand , face to face , staring into each other's eyes . 
After a ten years' separation , thus Wakefield meets his wife ! The throng eddies away , and carries them asunder . 
The sober widow , resuming her former pace , proceeds to church , but pauses in the portal , and throws a perplexed glance along the street . 
She passes in , however , opening her prayer book as she goes . 
The life of a hermit is nowise parallel to his . 
It was Wakefield's unprecedented fate to retain his original share of human sympathies , and to be still involved in human interests , while he had lost his reciprocal influence on them . 
It would be a most curious speculation to trace out the effect of such circumstances on his heart and intellect , separately , and in unison . 
Yet , changed as he was , he would seldom be conscious of it , but deem himself the same man as ever glimpses of the truth indeed . 
would come , but only for the moment and still he would keep saying , I shall soon go back ! nor reflect that he had been saying so for twenty years . 
I conceive , also , that these twenty years would appear , in the retrospect , scarcely longer than the week to which Wakefield had at first limited his absence . 
He would look on the affair as no more than an interlude in the main business of his life . 
Alas , what a mistake ! Would Time but await the close of our favorite follies , we should be young men , all of us , and till Doomsday . 
One evening , in the twentieth year since he vanished , Wakefield is taking his customary walk towards the dwelling which he still calls his own . 
It is a gusty night of autumn , with frequent showers that patter down upon the pavement , and are gone before a man can put up his umbrella . 
Pausing near the house , Wakefield discerns , through the parlor windows of the second floor , the red glow and the glimmer and fitful flash of a comfortable fire . 
On the ceiling appears a grotesque shadow of good Mrs. Wakefield . 
At this instant a shower chances to fall , and is driven , by the unmannerly gust , full into Wakefield's face and bosom . 
He is quite penetrated with its autumnal chill . 
He ascends the steps heavily ! for twenty years have stiffened his legs since he came down but he knows it not . 
Stay , Wakefield ! Would you go to the sole home that is left you ? Then step into your grave ! The door opens . 
We will not follow our friend across the threshold . 
He has left us much food for thought , a portion of which shall lend its wisdom to a moral , and be shaped into a figure . 
Like Wakefield , he may become , as it were , the Outcast of the Universe . 
Sullivan , in his History of Maine , written since the Revolution , remarks , that even then the existence of the Great Carbuncle was not entirely discredited . 
The roar of the Amonoosuck would have been too awful for endurance if only a solitary man had listened , while the mountain stream talked with the wind . 
The adventurers , therefore , exchanged hospitable greetings , and welcomed one another to the hut , where each man was the host , and all were the guests of the whole company . 
Seven men and one young woman , they warmed themselves together at the fire , which extended its bright wall along the whole front of their wigwam . 
All who visited that region knew him as the Seeker , and by no other name . 
Near this miserable Seeker sat a little elderly personage , wearing a high crowned hat , shaped somewhat like a crucible . 
Another of the adventurers was Master Ichabod Pigsnort , a weighty merchant and selectman of Boston , and an elder of the famous Mr. Norton's church . 
The fifth adventurer likewise lacked a name , which was the greater pity , as he appeared to be a poet . 
Several related the circumstances that brought them thither . 
Methinks , now , it were not amiss that each of us declare what he proposes to do with the Great Carbuncle , provided he have the good hap to clutch it . 
O wretch , regardless of the interests of science ! cried Doctor Cacaphodel , with philosophic indignation . 
Thou art not worthy to behold , even from afar off , the lustre of this most precious gem that ever was concocted in the laboratory of Nature . 
Mine is the sole purpose for which a wise man may desire the possession of the Great Carbuncle . 
By these various methods I shall gain an accurate analysis , and finally bestow the result of my labors upon the world in a folio volume . 
Excellent ! quoth the man with the spectacles . 
I tell ye frankly , sirs , I have an interest in keeping up the price . 
I never laid such a great folly to thy charge . 
Truly , I hope not , said the merchant . 
If any of ye have a wiser plan , let him expound it . 
That have I , thou sordid man ! exclaimed the poet . 
Thus , long ages after I am gone , the splendor of the Great Carbuncle will blaze around my name ! Well said , Master Poet ! cried he of the spectacles . 
Nay , forsooth , observed Matthew , the young rustic , who sat hand in hand with his bride , the gentleman has bethought himself of a profitable use for this bright stone . 
Hannah here and I are seeking it for a like purpose . 
How , fellow ! exclaimed his lordship , in surprise . 
What castle hall hast thou to hang it in ? No castle , replied Matthew , but as neat a cottage as any within sight of the Crystal Hills . 
The Great Carbuncle ! answered the Cynic , with ineffable scorn . 
Why , you blockhead , there is no such thing in rerum natura . 
They listened for the roll of thunder , but heard nothing , and were glad that the tempest came not near them . 
The modest little wife had wrought this piece of tapestry while the other guests were talking . 
She and her husband fell asleep with hands tenderly clasped , and awoke from visions of unearthly radiance to meet the more blessed light of one another's eyes . 
They awoke at the same instant , and with one happy smile beaming over their two faces , which grew brighter with their consciousness of the reality of life and love . 
But no sooner did she recollect where they were , than the bride peeped through the interstices of the leafy curtain , and saw that the outer room of the hut was deserted . 
Up , dear Matthew ! cried she , in haste . 
It was a sweet emblem of conjugal affection , as they toiled up the difficult ascent , gathering strength from the mutual aid which they afforded . 
They gazed back at the obscure wilderness which they had traversed , and longed to be buried again in its depths rather than trust themselves to so vast and visible a solitude . 
Shall we go on ? said Matthew , throwing his arm round Hannah's waist , both to protect her and to comfort his heart by drawing her close to it . 
Let us climb a little higher , whispered she , yet tremulously , as she turned her face upward to the lonely sky . 
Come , then , said Matthew , mustering his manly courage and drawing her along with him , for she became timid again the moment that he grew bold . 
Next , they came to masses and fragments of naked rock heaped confusedly together , like a cairn reared by giants in memory of a giant chief . 
She lingered beneath them , within the verge of the forest trees , and sent a farewell glance after her children as they strayed where her own green footprints had never been . 
And the lovers yearned to behold that green earth again , more intensely , alas ! than , beneath a clouded sky , they had ever desired a glimpse of heaven . 
But they drew closer together , with a fond and melancholy gaze , dreading lest the universal cloud should snatch them from each other's sight . 
She refused to burden her husband with her weight , but often tottered against his side , and recovered herself each time by a feebler effort . 
At last , she sank down on one of the rocky steps of the acclivity . 
We are lost , dear Matthew , said she , mournfully . 
We shall never find our way to the earth again . 
And oh how happy we might have been in our cottage ! Dear heart ! we will yet be happy there , answered Matthew . 
Look ! In this direction , the sunshine penetrates the dismal mist . 
By its aid , I can direct our course to the passage of the Notch . 
Let us go back , love , and dream no more of the Great Carbuncle ! The sun cannot be yonder , said Hannah , with despondence . 
By this time it must be noon . 
If there could ever be any sunshine here , it would come from above our heads . 
But look ! repeated Matthew , in a somewhat altered tone . 
It is brightening every moment . 
A ray of glory flashed across its surface . 
Often , from childhood upward , they had seen it shining like a distant star . 
And now that star was throwing its intensest lustre on their hearts . 
But , with their next glance , they beheld an object that drew their attention even from the mighty stone . 
But he stirred not , no more than if changed to marble . 
It is the Seeker , whispered Hannah , convulsively grasping her husband's arm . 
Matthew , he is dead . 
The joy of success has killed him , replied Matthew , trembling violently . 
Or , perhaps , the very light of the Great Carbuncle was death ! The Great Carbuncle , cried a peevish voice behind them . 
The Great Humbug ! If you have found it , prithee point it out to me . 
Where is your Great Humbug ? he repeated . 
I challenge you to make me see it ! There , said Matthew , incensed at such perverse blindness , and turning the Cynic round towards the illuminated cliff . 
With resolute bravado , however , he snatched them from his nose , and fixed a bold stare full upon the ruddy blaze of the Great Carbuncle . 
But scarcely had he encountered it , when , with a deep , shuddering groan , he dropped his head , and pressed both hands across his miserable eyes . 
Thenceforth there was , in very truth , no light of the Great Carbuncle , nor any other light on earth , nor light of heaven itself , for the poor Cynic . 
It revived her , but could not renovate her courage . 
Yes , dearest ! cried Matthew , pressing her tremulous form to his breast , we will go hence , and return to our humble cottage . 
The blessed sunshine and the quiet moonlight shall come through our window . 
We will kindle the cheerful glow of our hearth , at eventide , and be happy in its light . 
But never again will we desire more light than all the world may share with us . 
And , for all these purposes , the gem itself could not have answered better than the granite . 
The critics say , that , if his poetry lacked the splendor of the gem , it retained all the coldness of the ice . 
As the funeral torches gleamed within that dark receptacle , there was no need of the Great Carbuncle to show the vanity of earthly pomp . 
Matthew and his bride spent many peaceful years , and were fond of telling the legend of the Great Carbuncle . 
When other pilgrims reached the cliff , they found only an opaque stone , with particles of mica glittering on its surface . 
DAVID SWAN A FANTASY We can be but partially acquainted even with the events which actually influence our course through life , and our final destiny . 
Could we know all the vicissitudes of our fortunes , life would be too full of hope and fear , exultation or disappointment , to afford us a single hour of true serenity . 
This idea may be illustrated by a page from the secret history of David Swan . 
The spring murmured drowsily beside him the branches waved dreamily across the blue sky overhead and a deep sleep , perchance hiding dreams within its depths , fell upon David Swan . 
But we are to relate events which he did not dream of . 
A middle aged widow , when nobody else was near , thrust her head a little way into the recess , and vowed that the young fellow looked charming in his sleep . 
A temperance lecturer saw him , and wrought poor David into the texture of his evening's discourse , as an awful instance of dead drunkenness by the roadside . 
But censure , praise , merriment , scorn , and indifference were all one , or rather all nothing , to David Swan . 
A linchpin had fallen out , and permitted one of the wheels to slide off . 
The damage was slight , and occasioned merely a momentary alarm to an elderly merchant and his wife , who were returning to Boston in the carriage . 
How soundly he sleeps ! whispered the old gentleman . 
And youth , besides , said the lady . 
Healthy and quiet age does not sleep thus . 
Our slumber is no more like his than our wakefulness . 
Perceiving that a stray sunbeam glimmered down upon his face , the lady contrived to twist a branch aside , so as to intercept it . 
And having done this little act of kindness , she began to feel like a mother to him . 
Providence seems to have laid him here , whispered she to her husband , and to have brought us hither to find him , after our disappointment in our cousin's son . 
Methinks I can see a likeness to our departed Henry . 
Shall we waken him ? To what purpose ? said the merchant , hesitating . 
We know nothing of the youth's character . 
That open countenance ! replied his wife , in the same hushed voice , yet earnestly . 
This innocent sleep ! While these whispers were passing , the sleeper's heart did not throb , nor his breath become agitated , nor his features betray the least token of interest . 
Yet Fortune was bending over him , just ready to let fall a burden of gold . 
The old merchant had lost his only son , and had no heir to his wealth except a distant relative , with whose conduct he was dissatisfied . 
In such cases , people sometimes do stranger things than to act the magician , and awaken a young man to splendor who fell asleep in poverty . 
Shall we not waken him ? repeated the lady persuasively . 
The coach is ready , sir , said the servant , behind . 
The old couple started , reddened , and hurried away , mutually wondering that they should ever have dreamed of doing anything so very ridiculous . 
The merchant threw himself back in the carriage , and occupied his mind with the plan of a magnificent asylum for unfortunate men of business . 
Meanwhile , David Swan enjoyed his nap . 
Perhaps it was this merry kind of motion that caused is there any harm in saying it ? her garter to slip its knot . 
But there was peril near the sleeper . 
The sting of a bee is sometimes deadly . 
As free hearted as she was innocent , the girl attacked the intruder with her handkerchief , brushed him soundly , and drove him from beneath the mapleshade . 
He is handsome ! thought she , and blushed redder yet . 
How sound he sleeps ! murmured the girl . 
She departed , but did not trip along the road so lightly as when she came . 
Had David formed a wayside acquaintance with the daughter , he would have become the father's clerk , and all else in natural succession . 
So here , again , had good fortune the best of fortunes stolen so near that her garments brushed against him and he knew nothing of the matter . 
The girl was hardly out of sight when two men turned aside beneath the maple shade . 
Both had dark faces , set off by cloth caps , which were drawn down aslant over their brows . 
Their dresses were shabby , yet had a certain smartness . 
And if not there , we shall find it in his pantaloons pocket . 
But how if he wakes ? said the other . 
His companion thrust aside his waistcoat , pointed to the handle of a dirk , and nodded . 
So be it ! muttered the second villain . 
They approached the unconscious David , and , while one pointed the dagger towards his heart , the other began to search the bundle beneath his head . 
Their two faces , grim , wrinkled , and ghastly with guilt and fear , bent over their victim , looking horrible enough to be mistaken for fiends , should he suddenly awake . 
Nay , had the villains glanced aside into the spring , even they would hardly have known themselves as reflected there . 
But David Swan had never worn a more tranquil aspect , even when asleep on his mother's breast . 
I must take away the bundle , whispered one . 
If he stirs , I'll strike , muttered the other . 
He then lapped out of the fountain . 
Pshaw ! said one villain . 
We can do nothing now . 
The dog's master must be close behind . 
It was a flask of liquor , with a block tin tumbler screwed upon the mouth . 
He slept , but no longer so quietly as at first . 
An hour's repose had snatched , from his elastic frame , the weariness with which many hours of toil had burdened it . 
Now he stirred now , moved his lips , without a sound now , talked , in an inward tone , to the noonday spectres of his dream . 
But a noise of wheels came rattling louder and louder along the road , until it dashed through the dispersing mist of David's slumber and there was the stage coach . 
He started up with all his ideas about him . 
Halloo , driver ! Take a passenger ? shouted he . 
Room on top ! answered the driver . 
Up mounted David , and bowled away merrily towards Boston , without so much as a parting glance at that fountain of dreamlike vicissitude . 
Sleeping or waking , we hear not the airy footsteps of the strange things that almost happen . 
In the spot where they encountered , no mortal could observe them . 
One of these masses of decaying wood , formerly a majestic oak , rested close beside a pool of green and sluggish water at the bottom of the basin . 
The chill beauty of an autumnal sunset was now gilding the three hill tops , whence a paler tint stole down their sides into the hollow . 
Here is our pleasant meeting come to pass , said the aged crone , according as thou hast desired . 
Say quickly what thou wouldst have of me , for there is but a short hour that we may tarry here . 
As the old withered woman spoke , a smile glimmered on her countenance , like lamplight on the wall of a sepulchre . 
The lady trembled , and cast her eyes upward to the verge of the basin , as if meditating to return with her purpose unaccomplished . 
But it was not so ordained . 
I am a stranger in this land , as you know , said she at length . 
Whence I come it matters not but I have left those behind me with whom my fate was intimately bound , and from whom I am cut off forever . 
There is a weight in my bosom that I cannot away with , and I have come hither to inquire of their welfare . 
And who is there by this green pool that can bring thee news from the ends of the earth ? cried the old woman , peering into the lady's face . 
Not from my lips mayst thou hear these tidings yet , be thou bold , and the daylight shall not pass away from yonder hill top before thy wish be granted . 
I will do your bidding though I die , replied the lady desperately . 
The old woman seated herself on the trunk of the fallen tree , threw aside the hood that shrouded her gray locks , and beckoned her companion to draw near . 
Kneel down , she said , and lay your forehead on my knees . 
She hesitated a moment , but the anxiety that had long been kindling burned fiercely up within her . 
Then she heard the muttered words of prayer , in the midst of which she started , and would have arisen . 
Let me flee , let me flee and hide myself , that they may not look upon me ! she cried . 
But , with returning recollection , she hushed herself , and was still as death . 
But those strangers appeared not to stand in the hollow depth between the three hills . 
By a melancholy hearth sat these two old people , the man calmly despondent , the woman querulous and tearful , and their words were all of sorrow . 
They spoke of a daughter , a wanderer they knew not where , bearing dishonor along with her , and leaving shame and affliction to bring their gray heads to the grave . 
A weary and lonesome time yonder old couple have of it , remarked the old woman , smiling in the lady's face . 
And did you also hear them ? exclaimed she , a sense of intolerable humiliation triumphing over her agony and fear . 
Yea and we have yet more to hear , replied the old woman . 
Wherefore , cover thy face quickly . 
Chains were rattling , fierce and stern voices uttered threats , and the scourge resounded at their command . 
All these noises deepened and became substantial to the listener's ear , till she could distinguish every soft and dreamy accent of the love songs that died causelessly into funeral hymns . 
She shuddered at the unprovoked wrath which blazed up like the spontaneous kindling of flames and she grew faint at the fearful merriment raging miserably around her . 
He went to and fro continually , and his feet sounded upon the floor . 
He spoke of woman's perfidy , of a wife who had broken her holiest vows , of a home and heart made desolate . 
The lady looked up , and there was the withered woman smiling in her face . 
Couldst thou have thought there were such merry times in a madhouse ? inquired the latter . 
True , true , said the lady to herself there is mirth within its walls , but misery , misery without . 
Wouldst thou hear more ? demanded the old woman . 
There is one other voice I would fain listen to again , replied the lady , faintly . 
Then , lay down thy head speedily upon my knees , that thou mayst get thee hence before the hour be past . 
The golden skirts of day were yet lingering upon the hills , but deep shades obscured the hollow and the pool , as if sombre night were rising thence to overspread the world . 
Again that evil woman began to weave her spell . 
The lady shook upon her companion's knees as she heard that boding sound . 
Before them went the priest , reading the burial service , while the leaves of his book were rustling in the breeze . 
But when the old woman stirred the kneeling lady , she lifted not her head . 
Here has been a sweet hour's sport ! said the withered crone , chuckling to herself . 
HEIDEGGER'S EXPERIMENT That very singular man , old Dr . 
Heidegger , once invited four venerable friends to meet him in his study . 
There were three white bearded gentlemen , Mr. Medbourne , Colonel Killigrew , and Mr. Gascoigne , and a withered gentlewoman , whose name was the Widow Wycherly . 
They were all melancholy old creatures , who had been unfortunate in life , and whose greatest misfortune it was that they were not long ago in their graves . 
And , before proceeding further , I will merely hint that Dr . 
My dear old friends , said Dr . 
Heidegger , motioning them to be seated , I am desirous of your assistance in one of those little experiments with which I amuse myself here in my study . 
If all stories were true , Dr . 
Heidegger's study must have been a very curious place . 
It was a dim , old fashioned chamber , festooned with cobwebs , and besprinkled with antique dust . 
Around the walls stood several oaken bookcases , the lower shelves of which were filled with rows of gigantic folios and black letter quartos , and the upper with little parchment covered duodecimos . 
Over the central bookcase was a bronze bust of Hippocrates , with which , according to some authorities , Dr . 
Heidegger was accustomed to hold consultations in all difficult cases of his practice . 
In the obscurest corner of the room stood a tall and narrow oaken closet , with its door ajar , within which doubtfully appeared a skeleton . 
Between two of the bookcases hung a looking glass , presenting its high and dusty plate within a tarnished gilt frame . 
Above half a century ago , Dr . 
The greatest curiosity of the study remains to be mentioned it was a ponderous folio volume , bound in black leather , with massive silver clasps . 
There were no letters on the back , and nobody could tell the title of the book . 
Four champagne glasses were also on the table . 
My dear old friends , repeated Dr . 
Heidegger , may I reckon on your aid in performing an exceedingly curious experiment ? Now Dr . 
Heidegger was a very strange old gentleman , whose eccentricity had become the nucleus for a thousand fantastic stories . 
But without waiting for a reply , Dr . 
Heidegger hobbled across the chamber , and returned with the same ponderous folio , bound in black leather , which common report affirmed to be a book of magic . 
This rose , said Dr . 
Heidegger , with a sigh , this same withered and crumbling flower , blossomed five and fifty years ago . 
It was given me by Sylvia Ward , whose portrait hangs yonder and I meant to wear it in my bosom at our wedding . 
Five and fifty years it has been treasured between the leaves of this old volume . 
Now , would you deem it possible that this rose of half a century could ever bloom again ? Nonsense ! said the Widow Wycherly , with a peevish toss of her head . 
You might as well ask whether an old woman's wrinkled face could ever bloom again . 
He uncovered the vase , and threw the faded rose into the water which it contained . 
At first , it lay lightly on the surface of the fluid , appearing to imbibe none of its moisture . 
Soon , however , a singular change began to be visible . 
It was scarcely full blown for some of its delicate red leaves curled modestly around its moist bosom , within which two or three dewdrops were sparkling . 
Heidegger , for he never sought it in the right place . 
The famous Fountain of Youth , if I am rightly informed , is situated in the southern part of the Floridian peninsula , not far from Lake Macaco . 
Its source is overshadowed by several gigantic magnolias , which , though numberless centuries old , have been kept as fresh as violets by the virtues of this wonderful water . 
An acquaintance of mine , knowing my curiosity in such matters , has sent me what you see in the vase . 
Heidegger and all of you , my respected friends , are welcome to so much of this admirable fluid as may restore to you the bloom of youth . 
For my own part , having had much trouble in growing old , I am in no hurry to grow young again . 
With your permission , therefore , I will merely watch the progress of the experiment . 
While he spoke , Dr . 
Heidegger had been filling the four champagne glasses with the water of the Fountain of Youth . 
It was apparently impregnated with an effervescent gas , for little bubbles were continually ascending from the depths of the glasses , and bursting in silvery spray at the surface . 
Heidegger besought them to stay a moment . 
Drink , then , said the doctor , bowing I rejoice that I have so well selected the subjects of my experiment . 
With palsied hands , they raised the glasses to their lips . 
The liquor , if it really possessed such virtues as Dr . 
Heidegger imputed to it , could not have been bestowed on four human beings who needed it more wofully . 
They drank off the water , and replaced their glasses on the table . 
There was a healthful suffusion on their cheeks , instead of the ashen hue that had made them look so corpse like . 
The Widow Wycherly adjusted her cap , for she felt almost like a woman again . 
Give us more of this wondrous water ! cried they , eagerly . 
We are younger but we are still too old ! Quick give us more ! Patience , patience ! quoth Dr . 
Heidegger , who sat watching the experiment with philosophic coolness . 
You have been a long time growing old . 
Surely , you might be content to grow young in half an hour ! But the water is at your service . 
While the bubbles were yet sparkling on the brim , the doctor's four guests snatched their glasses from the table , and swallowed the contents at a single gulp . 
Was it delusion ? even while the draught was passing down their throats , it seemed to have wrought a change on their whole systems . 
She thrust her face close to the glass , to see whether some long remembered wrinkle or crow's foot had indeed vanished . 
She examined whether the snow had so entirely melted from her hair that the venerable cap could be safely thrown aside . 
At last , turning briskly away , she came with a sort of dancing step to the table . 
Even while quaffing the third draught of the Fountain of Youth , they were almost awed by the expression of his mysterious visage . 
But , the next moment , the exhilarating gush of young life shot through their veins . 
They were now in the happy prime of youth . 
Age , with its miserable train of cares and sorrows and diseases , was remembered only as the trouble of a dream , from which they had joyously awoke . 
They felt like new created beings in a new created universe . 
We are young ! We are young ! they cried exultingly . 
Youth , like the extremity of age , had effaced the strongly marked characteristics of middle life , and mutually assimilated them all . 
They were a group of merry youngsters , almost maddened with the exuberant frolicsomeness of their years . 
The most singular effect of their gayety was an impulse to mock the infirmity and decrepitude of which they had so lately been the victims . 
They laughed loudly at their old fashioned attire , the wide skirted coats and flapped waistcoats of the young men , and the ancient cap and gown of the blooming girl . 
Then all shouted mirthfully , and leaped about the room . 
The Widow Wycherly if so fresh a damsel could be called a widow tripped up to the doctor's chair , with a mischievous merriment in her rosy face . 
Pray excuse me , answered the doctor quietly . 
I am old and rheumatic , and my dancing days were over long ago . 
But either of these gay young gentlemen will be glad of so pretty a partner . 
Dance with me , Clara ! cried Colonel Killigrew No , no , I will be her partner ! shouted Mr. Gascoigne . 
She promised me her hand , fifty years ago ! exclaimed Mr. Medbourne . 
They all gathered round her . 
One caught both her hands in his passionate grasp another threw his arm about her waist the third buried his hand among the glossy curls that clustered beneath the widow's cap . 
Never was there a livelier picture of youthful rivalship , with bewitching beauty for the prize . 
But they were young their burning passions proved them so . 
Inflamed to madness by the coquetry of the girl widow , who neither granted nor quite withheld her favors , the three rivals began to interchange threatening glances . 
Still keeping hold of the fair prize , they grappled fiercely at one another's throats . 
As they struggled to and fro , the table was overturned , and the vase dashed into a thousand fragments . 
The insect fluttered lightly through the chamber , and settled on the snowy head of Dr . 
Come , come , gentlemen ! come , Madam Wycherly , exclaimed the doctor , I really must protest against this riot . 
They stood still and shivered for it seemed as if gray Time were calling them back from their sunny youth , far down into the chill and darksome vale of years . 
They looked at old Dr . 
Heidegger , who sat in his carved arm chair , holding the rose of half a century , which he had rescued from among the fragments of the shattered vase . 
At the motion of his hand , the four rioters resumed their seats the more readily , because their violent exertions had wearied them , youthful though they were . 
My poor Sylvia's rose ! ejaculated Dr . 
Heidegger , holding it in the light of the sunset clouds it appears to be fading again . 
He shook off the few drops of moisture which clung to its petals . 
I love it as well thus as in its dewy freshness , observed he , pressing the withered rose to his withered lips . 
While he spoke , the butterfly fluttered down from the doctor's snowy head , and fell upon the floor . 
A strange chillness , whether of the body or spirit they could not tell , was creeping gradually over them all . 
They gazed at one another , and fancied that each fleeting moment snatched away a charm , and left a deepening furrow where none had been before . 
Heidegger ? Are we grown old again , so soon ? cried they , dolefully . 
The Water of Youth possessed merely a virtue more transient than that of wine . 
The delirium which it created had effervesced away . 
Yes ! they were old again . 
Yes , friends , ye are old again , said Dr . 
Heidegger , and lo ! the Water of Youth is all lavished on the ground . 
Such is the lesson ye have taught me ! But the doctor's four friends had taught no such lesson to themselves . 
They resolved forthwith to make a pilgrimage to Florida , and quaff at morning , noon , and night , from the Fountain of Youth . 
The sign represented the front of a stately edifice , which was designated as the OLD PROVINCE HOUSE , kept by Thomas Waite . 
The Province House is constructed of brick , which seems recently to have been overlaid with a coat of light colored paint . 
These letters and figures P. S. are wrought into the iron work of the balcony , and probably express the date of the edifice , with the initials of its founder's name . 
A wide door with double leaves admitted me into the hall or entry , on the right of which is the entrance to the bar room . 
But the room , in its present condition , cannot boast even of faded magnificence . 
A ray of sunshine never visits this apartment any more than the glare of the festal torches , which have been extinguished from the era of the Revolution . 
The great staircase , however , may be termed , without much hyperbole , a feature of grandeur and magnificence . 
It winds through the midst of the house by flights of broad steps , each flight terminating in a square landing place , whence the ascent is continued towards the cupola . 
A carved balustrade , freshly painted in the lower stories , but growing dingier as we ascend , borders the staircase with its quaintly twisted and intertwined pillars , from top to bottom . 
The cupola is an octagon , with several windows , and a door opening upon the roof . 
The portion of his talk which chiefly interested me was the outline of the following legend . 
At one of the entertainments given at the Province House , during the latter part of the siege of Boston , there passed a scene which has never yet been satisfactorily explained . 
There was one of the guests , however , who stood apart , eyeing these antics sternly and scornfully , at once with a frown and a bitter smile . 
It was an old man , formerly of high station and great repute in the province , and who had been a very famous soldier in his day . 
the flickering brilliancy of a lamp which has but a little while to burn . 
What new jest has your Excellency in hand ? asked the Rev . 
Mather Byles , whose Presbyterian scruples had not kept him from the entertainment . 
Trust me , sir , I have already laughed more than beseems my cloth at your Homeric confabulation with yonder ragamuffin General of the rebels . 
One other such fit of merriment , and I must throw off my clerical wig and band . 
Not so , good Doctor Byles , answered Sir William Howe if mirth were a crime , you had never gained your doctorate in divinity . 
As to this new foolery , I know no more about it than yourself perhaps not so much . 
Sir William Howe smiled at words which he would have answered with one of his darkest frowns had they been uttered by lips that wore a beard . 
He was spared the necessity of a retort , by a singular interruption . 
After listening a moment , Sir William Howe called , in a stern voice , to the leader of the musicians , who had hitherto enlivened the entertainment with gay and lightsome melodies . 
The man was drum major to one of the British regiments . 
I and my band are all here together , and I question whether there be a man of us that could play that march without book . 
I never heard it but once before , and that was at the funeral of his late Majesty , King George the Second . 
Well , well ! said Sir William Howe , recovering his composure it is the prelude to some masquerading antic . 
A figure now presented itself , but among the many fantastic masks that were dispersed through the apartments none could tell precisely from whence it came . 
It was a man in an old fashioned dress of black serge and having the aspect of a steward or principal domestic in the household of a nobleman or great English landholder . 
At the same time the music in the street sounded a loud and doleful summons . 
He carried a roll of manuscript in his hand . 
Close behind these two came a young man of very striking countenance and demeanor , with deep thought and contemplation on his brow , and perhaps a flash of enthusiiasm in his eye . 
His garb , like that of his predecessors , was of an antique fashion , and there was a stain of blood upon his ruff . 
Endicott , with the banner from which he had torn the symbol of subjection , and Winthrop , and Sir Henry Vane , and Dudley , Haynes , Bellingham , and Leverett . 
Why had that young man a stain of blood upon his ruff ? asked Miss Joliffe . 
Because , in after years , answered her grandfather , he laid down the wisest head in England upon the block for the principles of liberty . 
Will not your Excellency order out the guard ? whispered Lord Percy , who , with other British officers , had now assembled round the General . 
There may be a plot under this mummery . 
Tush ! we have nothing to fear , carelessly replied Sir William Howe . 
There can be no worse treason in the matter than a jest , and that somewhat of the dullest . 
Even were it a sharp and bitter one , our best policy would be to laugh it off . 
See here come more of these gentry . 
Another group of characters had now partly descended the staircase . 
The first was a venerable and white bearded patriarch , who cautiously felt his way downward with a staff . 
Prithee , play the part of a chorus , good Doctor Byles , said Sir William Howe . 
But we talk of these figures . 
I take the venerable patriarch to be Bradstreet , the last of the Puritans , who was governor at ninety , or thereabouts . 
The next is Sir Edmund Andros , a tyrant , as any New England school boy will tell you and therefore the people cast him down from his high seat into a dungeon . 
But what is the meaning of it all ? asked Lord Percy . 
Several other figures were now seen at the turn of the staircase . 
A few steps behind came an officer in a scarlet and embroidered uniform , cut in a fashion old enough to have been worn by the Duke of Marlborough . 
Governor Belcher ! my old patron ! in his very shape and dress ! gasped Doctor Byles . 
This is an awful mockery ! A tedious foolery , rather , said Sir William Howe , with an air of indifference . 
But who were the three that preceded him ? Governor Dudley , a cunning politician yet his craft once brought him to a prison , replied Colonel Joliffe . 
Governor Shute , formerly a Colonel under Marlborough , and whom the people frightened out of the province and learned Governor Burnet , whom the legislature tormented into a mortal fever . 
Methinks they were miserable men , these royal governors of Massachusetts , observed Miss Joliffe . 
Their faces , indeed , were invariably kept in deep shadow . 
As they vanished from the door , still did these shadows toss their arms into the gloom of night , with a dread expression of woe . 
The shape of Gage , as true as in a looking glass , exclaimed Lord Percy , turning pale . 
Of that be assured , young lady , answered Sir William Howe , fixing his eyes , with a very marked expression , upon the immovable visage of her grandfather . 
I have long enough delayed to pay the ceremonies of a host to these departing guests . 
The next that takes his leave shall receive due courtesy . 
A wild and dreary burst of music came through the open door . 
Many eyes , by an irresistible impulse , were turned upon Sir William Howe , as if it were he whom the dreary music summoned to the funeral or departed power . 
See ! here comes the last ! whispered Miss Joliffe , pointing her tremulous finger to the staircase . 
The features , therefore , were completely hidden . 
Villain , unmuffle yourself ! cried he . 
But Sir William Howe had evidently seen enough . 
Hark ! the procession moves , said Miss Joliffe . 
As the deep boom of the cannon smote upon his ear , Colonel Joliffe raised himself to the full height of his aged form , and smiled sternly on the British General . 
Would your Excellency inquire further into the mystery of the pageant ? said he . 
Take care of your gray head ! cried Sir William Howe , fiercely , though with a quivering lip . 
It was supposed that the Colonel and the young lady possessed some secret intelligence in regard to the mysterious pageant of that night . 
However this might be , such knowledge has never become general . 
Moreover , my gorgeous fantasies were wofully disturbed by the rattling of the spoon in a tumbler of whiskey punch , which Mr. Thomas Waite was mingling for a customer . 
On the window seat lay a bundle , neatly done up in brown paper , the direction of which I had the idle curiosity to read . 
MISS SUSAN HUGGINS , at the PROVINCE HOUSE . 
A pretty chambermaid , no doubt . 
Then , diving through the narrow archway , a few strides transported me into the densest throng of Washington Street . 
LEGENDS OF THE PROVINCE HOUSE II EDWARD RANDOLPH'S PORTRAIT The old legendary guest of the Province House abode in my remembrance from midsummer till January . 
But the black , lowering sky , as I turned my eyes upward , wore , doubtless , the same visage as when it frowned upon the ante revolutionary New Englanders . 
The wintry blast had the same shriek that was familiar to their ears . 
Only seven o'clock , thought I. My old friend's legends will scarcely kill the hours 'twixt this and bedtime . 
Passing through the narrow arch , I crossed the court yard , the confined precincts of which were made visible by a lantern over the portal of the Province House . 
He recognized me with evident pleasure for my rare properties as a patient listener invariably make me a favorite with elderly gentlemen and ladies of narrative propensities . 
Time had thrown an impenetrable veil over it , and left to tradition and fable and conjecture to say what had once been there portrayed . 
The Lieutenant Governor sat , one afternoon , resting his head against the carved back of his stately armchair , and gazing up thoughtfully at the void blackness of the picture . 
These troops awaited his permission to occupy the fortress of Castle William , and the town itself . 
But observing her uncle's steadfast gaze , which appeared to search through the mist of years to discover the subject of the picture , her curiosity was excited . 
, did not immediately reply , the young Captain of Castle William took that office upon himself . 
This dark old square of canvas , my fair cousin , said he , has been an heirloom in the Province House from time immemorial . 
Shirley , for instance , had beheld this ominous apparition , on the eve of General Abercrombie's shameful and bloody defeat under the walls of Ticonderoga . 
Some of these fables are really awful , observed Alice Vane , who had occasionally shuddered , as well as smiled , while her cousin spoke . 
It would be almost worth while to wipe away the black surface of the canvas , since the original picture can hardly be so formidable as those which fancy paints instead of it . 
But would it be possible , inquired her cousin , to restore this dark picture to its pristine hues ? Such arts are known in Italy , said Alice . 
The Lieutenant Governor had roused himself from his abstracted mood , and listened with a smile to the conversation of his young relatives . 
Yet his voice had something peculiar in its tones when he undertook the explanation of the mystery . 
It was the portrait of Edward Randolph , the founder of this house , a person famous in the history of New England . 
It was his lot to taste the bitterness of popular odium . 
They say , too , that the inward misery of that curse worked itself outward , and was visible on the wretched man's countenance , making it too horrible to be looked upon . 
If so , and if this picture truly represented his aspect , it was in mercy that the cloud of blackness has gathered over it . 
These traditions are folly to one who has proved , as I have , how little of historic truth lies at the bottom , said the Lieutenant Governor . 
As regards the life and character of Edward Randolph , too implicit credence has been given to Dr . 
When the rulers feel themselves irresponsible , it were well that they should be reminded of the awful weight of a people's curse . 
He knew , indeed , that Alice , in spite of her foreign education , retained the native sympathies of a New England girl . 
Peace , silly child , cried he , at last , more harshly than he had ever before addressed the gentle Alice . 
The rebuke of a king is more to be dreaded than the clamor of a wild , misguided multitude . 
Captain Lincoln , it is decided . 
The fortress of Castle William must be occupied by the royal troops . 
The two remaining regiments shall be billeted in the town , or encamped upon the Common . 
It is time , after years of tumult , and almost rebellion , that his majesty's government should have a wall of strength about it . 
Do not convert the streets of your native town into a camp . 
Think twice before you give up old Castle William , the key of the province , into other keeping than that of true born New Englanders . 
Young man , it is decided , repeated Hutchinson , rising from his chair . 
A British officer will be in attendance this evening , to receive the necessary instructions for the disposal of the troops . 
Your presence also will be required . 
With these words the Lieutenant Governor hastily left the room , while Alice and her cousin more slowly followed , whispering together , and once pausing to glance back at the mysterious picture . 
As he held the door for her to pass , Alice beckoned to the picture and smiled . 
Come forth , dark and evil Shape ! cried she . 
In attendance , likewise , was a major of the British army , awaiting the Lieutenant Governor's orders for the landing of the troops , which still remained on board the transports . 
The Captain of Castle William stood beside Hutchinson's chair with folded arms , glancing rather haughtily at the British officer , by whom he was soon to be superseded in his command . 
Partly shrouded in the voluminous folds of one of the window curtains , which fell from the ceiling to the floor , was seen the white drapery of a lady's robe . 
Meantime , the chairman of the Selectmen was addressing to the Lieutenant Governor a long and solemn protest against the reception of the British troops into the town . 
Think , sir , while there is yet time , that if one drop of blood be shed , that blood shall be an eternal stain upon your Honor's memory . 
You , sir , have written with an able pen the deeds of our forefathers . 
Yes , said the British major , who was impatiently expecting the Lieutenant Governor's orders . 
The demagogues of this Province have raised the devil and cannot lay him again . 
We will exorcise him , in God's name and the king's . 
If you meddle with the devil , take care of his claws ! answered the Captain of Castle William , stirred by the taunt against his countrymen . 
Craving your pardon , young sir , said the venerable Selectman , let not an evil spirit enter into your words . 
We will strive against the oppressor with prayer and fasting , as our forefathers would have done . 
Like them , moreover , we will submit to whatever lot a wise Providence may send us , always , after our own best exertions to amend it . 
And there peep forth the devil's claws ! muttered Hutchinson , who well understood the nature of Puritan submission . 
This matter shall be expedited forthwith . 
When there shall be a sentinel at every corner , and a court of guard before the town house , a loyal gentleman may venture to walk abroad . 
Looking angrily up , he perceived that his young relative was pointing his finger to the opposite wall . 
Hutchinson's eye followed the signal and he saw , what had hitherto been unobserved , that a black silk curtain was suspended before the mysterious picture , so as completely to conceal it . 
An exclamation of surprise burst from every beholder but the Lieutenant Governor's voice had a tone of horror . 
Beneath this cloud the eyes had a peculiar glare , which was almost lifelike . 
The whole portrait started so distinctly out of the background , that it had the effect of a person looking down from the wall at the astonished and awe stricken spectators . 
There was the struggle of defiance , beaten down and overwhelmed by the crushing weight of ignominy . 
The torture of the soul had come forth upon the countenance . 
Such , if the wild legend may be credited , was the portrait of Edward Randolph , as he appeared when a people's curse had wrought its influence upon his nature . 
'T would drive me mad that awful face ! said Hutchinson , who seemed fascinated by the contemplation of it . 
Be warned , then ! whispered Alice . 
He trampled on a people's rights . 
, he scrawled on the paper , in characters that betokened it a deed of desperation , the name of Thomas Hutchinson . 
Then , it is said , he shuddered , as if that signature had granted away his salvation . 
It is done , said he and placed his hand upon his brow . 
May Heaven forgive the deed , said the soft , sad accents of Alice Vane , like the voice of a good spirit flitting away . 
If the figure had , indeed , stepped forth , it had fled back , spirit like , at the daydawn , and hidden itself behind a century's obscurity . 
The truth probably was , that Alice Vane's secret for restoring the hues of the picture had merely effected a temporary renovation . 
It is as if the echoes of half a century were revived . 
Being thus welcomed as benefactors , neither Mr. Tiffany nor myself felt any scruple in doing full justice to the good things that were set before us . 
Yet prejudices so obstinate have not made him an ungentle or impracticable companion . 
In another paper of this series I may perhaps give the reader a closer glimpse of his portrait . 
With some suitable adornments from my own fancy , it ran pretty much as follows . 
That tinge of the marvellous , which is thrown over so many of these half forgotten legends , has probably imparted an additional wildness to the strange story of Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe . 
The ship in which she came passenger had arrived at Newport , whence Lady Eleanore was conveyed to Boston in the Governor's coach , attended by a small escort of gentlemen on horseback . 
The coachman reined in his four black steeds , and the whole cavalcade came to a pause in front of the contorted iron balustrade that fenced the Province House from the public street . 
A very great disrespect ! exclaimed Captain Langford , an English officer , who had recently brought dispatches to Governor Shute . 
The funeral should have been deferred , lest Lady Eleanore's spirits be affected by such a dismal welcome . 
King Death confers high privileges . 
But the Governor's stately approach was anticipated in a manner that excited general astonishment . 
Up , sir , said the Governor , sternly , at the same time lifting his cane over the intruder . 
What means the Bedlamite by this freak ? Nay , answered Lady Eleanore playfully , but with more scorn than pity in her tone , your Excellency shall not strike him . 
Yet the spectators were so smitten with her beauty , and so essential did pride seem to the existence of such a creature , that they gave a simultaneous acclamation of applause . 
Who is this insolent young fellow ? inquired Captain Langford , who still remained beside Doctor Clarke . 
If he be in his senses , his impertinence demands the bastinado . 
If mad , Lady Eleanore should be secured from further inconvenience , by his confinement . 
He loved her and her scorn has driven him mad . 
He was mad so to aspire , observed the English officer . 
It may be so , said Doctor Clarke , frowning as he spoke . 
She seeks to place herself above the sympathies of our common nature , which envelops all human souls . 
Not many days afterwards the Governor gave a ball in honor of Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe . 
Then , with a nervous shudder , she seemed to arouse her energies and threw some bright and playful yet half wicked sarcasm into the conversation . 
Gradually , Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe's circle grew smaller , till only four gentlemen remained in it . 
At different periods of the evening the liveried servants of the Province House passed among the guests , bearing huge trays of refreshments and French and Spanish wines . 
Conscious that some one touched her robe , Lady Eleanore started , and unclosed her eyes upon the pale , wild features and dishevelled hair of Jervase Helwyse . 
Why do you haunt me thus ? said she , in a languid tone , but with a kindlier feeling than she ordinarily permitted herself to express . 
They tell me that I have done you harm . 
Heaven knows if that be so , replied the young man solemnly . 
And this shall be a symbol that you have not sought to withdraw yourself from the chain of human sympathies which whoso would shake off must keep company with fallen angels . 
Where has this mad fellow stolen that sacramental vessel ? exclaimed the Episcopal clergyman . 
Perhaps it is poisoned , half whispered the Governor's secretary . 
Pour it down the villain's throat ! cried the Virginian fiercely . 
Whether knave , fool , or Bedlamite , it is intolerable that the fellow should go at large . 
Pray , gentlemen , do my poor admirer no harm , said Lady Eleanore with a faint and weary smile . 
Cast it from you ! exclaimed Jervase Helwyse , clasping his hands in an agony of entreaty . 
Farewell , Jervase Helwyse ! said she . 
Keep my image in your remembrance , as you behold it now . 
Alas , lady ! he replied , in a tone no longer wild , but sad as a funeral bell . 
We must meet shortly , when your face may wear another aspect and that shall be the image that must abide within me . 
You appear to be smitten , after all , with the charms of this queenly maiden , said he , hoping thus to draw forth the physician's hidden knowledge . 
God forbid ! answered Doctor Clarke , with a grave smile and if you be wise you will put up the same prayer for yourself . 
Woe to those who shall be smitten by this beautiful Lady Eleanore ! But yonder stands the Governor and I have a word or two for his private ear . 
A very few moments afterwards it was announced to the guests that an unforeseen circumstance rendered it necessary to put a premature close to the festival . 
Some of the most distinguished guests of the Province House even those whom the haughty Lady Eleanore Rochcliffe had deemed not unworthy of her favor were stricken by this fatal scourge . 
But the disease , pursuing its onward progress , soon ceased to be exclusively a prerogative of aristocracy . 
Its red brand was no longer conferred like a noble's star , or an order of knighthood . 
Such was the dismay that now followed in the track of the disease , or ran before it throughout the town . 
The public councils were suspended , as if mortal wisdom might relinquish its devices , now that an unearthly usurper had found his way into the ruler's mansion . 
This conquerer had a symbol of his triumphs . 
It was a blood red flag , that fluttered in the tainted air , over the door of every dwelling into which the Small Pox had entered . 
Such a banner was long since waving over the portal of the Province House for thence , as was proved by tracking its footsteps back , had all this dreadful mischief issued . 
This dark tale , whispered at first , was now bruited far and wide . 
At length , climbing one of the pillars by means of the iron balustrade , he took down the flag and entered the mansion , waving it above his head . 
At the foot of the staircase he met the Governor , booted and spurred , with his cloak drawn around him , evidently on the point of setting forth upon a journey . 
Wretched lunatic , what do you seek here ? exclaimed Shute , extending his cane to guard himself from contact . 
There is nothing here but Death . 
Back or you will meet him ! Death will not touch me , the banner bearer of the pestilence ! cried Jervase Helwyse , shaking the red flag aloft . 
Young man , what is your purpose ? demanded he . 
I seek the Lady Eleanore , answered Jervase Helwyse , submissively . 
All have fled from her , said the physician . 
Why do you seek her now ? I tell you , youth , her nurse fell death stricken on the threshold of that fatal chamber . 
Let me behold her , in her awful beauty , clad in the regal garments of the pestilence ! She and Death sit on a throne together . 
Wilt thou still worship the destroyer and surround her image with fantasies the more magnificent , the more evil she has wrought ? Thus man doth ever to his tyrants . 
Ascending another flight of stairs , he threw open a door and signed to Jervase Helwyse that he should enter . 
He dreamed , no doubt , that her beauty was not dimmed , but brightened into superhuman splendor . 
With such anticipations , he stole reverentially to the door at which the physician stood , but paused upon the threshold , gazing fearfully into the gloom of the darkened chamber . 
Where is the Lady Eleanore ? whispered he . 
Call her , replied the physician . 
Lady Eleanore ! Princess ! Queen of Death ! cried Jervase Helwyse , advancing three steps into the chamber . 
She is not here ! There on yonder table , I behold the sparkle of a diamond which once she wore upon her bosom . 
There and he shuddered there hangs her mantle , on which a dead woman embroidered a spell of dreadful potency . 
He fancied , even , that he recognized its tones . 
My throat ! my throat is scorched , murmured the voice . 
A drop of water ! What thing art thou ? said the brain stricken youth , drawing near the bed and tearing asunder its curtains . 
I wrapped myself in PRIDE as in a MANTLE , and scorned the sympathies of nature and therefore has nature made this wretched body the medium of a dreadful sympathy . 
He shook his finger at the wretched girl , and the chamber echoed , the curtains of the bed were shaken , with his outburst of insane merriment . 
Another triumph for the Lady Eleanore ! he cried . 
Arriving opposite the Province House , the mob burned the effigy , and a strong wind came and swept away the ashes . 
A remarkable uncertainty broods over that unhappy lady's fate . 
Some sceptics , it is true , might demand documentary evidence , or even require him to produce the embroidered mantle , forgetting that Heaven be praised it was consumed to ashes . 
Perchance the public but be this as its own caprice and ours shall settle the matter may read the result in another Tale of the Province House . 
Finally , he poured forth a great fluency of speech . 
At the pathetic passages of his narrative he readily melted into tears . 
The tremulous voice of a woman replied to his exclamation . 
Heaven's cause and the King's are one , it said . 
Go forth , Sir William Howe , and trust in Heaven to bring back a Royal Governor in triumph . 
It was old Esther Dudley , who had dwelt almost immemorial years in this mansion , until her presence seemed as inseparable from it as the recollections of its history . 
But Sir William Howe , if he ever heard this legend , had forgotten it . 
Mistress Dudley , why are you loitering here ? asked he , with some severity of tone . 
It is my pleasure to be the last in this mansion of the King . 
Not so , if it please your Excellency , answered the time stricken woman . 
This roof has sheltered me long . 
I will not pass from it until they bear me to the tomb of my forefathers . 
What other shelter is there for old Esther Dudley , save the Province House or the grave ? Now Heaven forgive me ! said Sir William Howe to himself . 
I was about to leave this wretched old creature to starve or beg . 
Take this , good Mistress Dudley , he added , putting a purse into her hands . 
King George's head on these golden guineas is sterling yet , and will continue so , I warrant you , even should the rebels crown John Hancock their king . 
That purse will buy a better shelter than the Province House can now afford . 
And when your Excellency returns in triumph , I will totter into the porch to welcome you . 
My poor old friend ! answered the British General , and all his manly and martial pride could no longer restrain a gush of bitter tears . 
This is an evil hour for you and me . 
The Province which the King intrusted to my charge is lost . 
I go hence in misfortune perchance in disgrace to return no more . 
Never , never ! said the pertinacious old dame . 
Here will I abide and King George shall still have one true subject in his disloyal Province . 
Beshrew the old fool ! muttered Sir William Howe , growing impatient of her obstinacy , and ashamed of the emotion into which he had been betrayed . 
She is the very moral of old fashioned prejudice , and could exist nowhere but in this musty edifice . 
Well , then , Mistress Dudley , since you will needs tarry , I give the Province House in charge to you . 
Take this key , and keep it safe until myself , or some other Royal Governor , shall demand it of you . 
Smiling bitterly at himself and her , he took the heavy key of the Province House , and delivering it into the old lady's hands , drew his cloak around him for departure . 
The total change of affairs that ensued on the departure of the British troops did not drive the venerable lady from her stronghold . 
And so they left her the undisturbed mistress of the old historic edifice . 
Many and strange were the fables which the gossips whispered about her , in all the chimney corners of the town . 
The gold of its heavily wrought frame was tarnished , and its surface so blurred , that the old woman's figure , whenever she paused before it , looked indistinct and ghost like . 
And did she dwell there in utter loneliness ? Rumor said , not so . 
But , draining the last drops of their liquor , they stole timorously homeward , and answered not again if the rude mob reviled them in the street . 
Yet Esther Dudley's most frequent and favored guests were the children of the town . 
Towards them she was never stern . 
A kindly and loving nature , hindered elsewhere from its free course by a thousand rocky prejudices , lavished itself upon these little ones . 
But Governor Belcher has been dead this many a year , would the mother say to her little boy . 
And did you really see him at the Province House ? Oh yes , dear mother ! yes ! the half dreaming child would answer . 
But when old Esther had done speaking about him he faded away out of his chair . 
Thus , without affrighting her little guests , she led them by the hand into the chambers of her own desolate heart , and made childhood's fancy discern the ghosts that haunted there . 
Living so continually in her own circle of ideas , and never regulating her mind by a proper reference to present things , Esther Dudley appears to have grown partially crazed . 
Sooner or later it was her invincible belief the colonies would be prostrate at the footstool of the King . 
Sometimes she seemed to take for granted that such was already the case . 
Her wrinkled visage actually gleamed with triumph , as if the soul within her were a festal lamp . 
What means this blaze of light ? What does old Esther's joy portend ? whispered a spectator . 
It is frightful to see her gliding about the chambers , and rejoicing there without a soul to bear her company . 
It is as if she were making merry in a tomb , said another . 
Pshaw ! It is no such mystery , observed an old man , after some brief exercise of memory . 
Mistress Dudley is keeping jubilee for the King of England's birthday . 
Now it was the fact that intelligence bearing some faint analogy to Esther's version of it was current among the townspeople . 
O happy day ! O blessed , blessed hour ! she exclaimed . 
She turned the key withdrew it from the lock unclosed the door and stepped across the threshold . 
He was richly dressed , but wore a gouty shoe which , however , did not lessen the stateliness of his gait . 
Around and behind him were people in plain civic dresses , and two or three war worn veterans , evidently officers of rank , arrayed in a uniform of blue and buff . 
As he approached , she involuntary sank down on her knees and tremblingly held forth the heavy key . 
Receive my trust ! take it quickly ! cried she , for methinks Death is striving to snatch away my triumph . 
But he comes too late . 
Yet , in reverence for your gray hairs and long kept faith , Heaven forbid that any here should say you nay . 
Years ago she had known him among the gentry of the province . 
Your life has been prolonged until the world has changed around you . 
And I , and these around me we represent a new race of men living no longer in the past , scarcely in the present but projecting our lives forward into the future . 
The key of the Province House fell from her grasp , and clanked against the stone . 
I have been faithful unto death , murmured she . 
God save the King ! She hath done her office ! said Hancock solemnly . 
In that same mansion in that very chamber what a volume of history had been told off into hours , by the same voice that was now trembling in the air . 
Many a Governor had heard those midnight accents , and longed to exchange his stately cares for slumber . 
Up the chimney roared the fire , and brightened the room with its broad blaze . 
They had found the herb , heart's ease , in the bleakest spot of all New England . 
For a moment it saddened them , though there was nothing unusual in the tones . 
Though they dwelt in such a solitude , these people held daily converse with the world . 
Lawrence , on the other . 
The stage coach always drew up before the door of the cottage . 
It was one of those primitive taverns where the traveller pays only for food and lodging , but meets with a homely kindness beyond all price . 
The door was opened by a young man . 
One glance and smile placed the stranger on a footing of innocent familiarity with the eldest daughter . 
Ah , this fire is the right thing ! cried he especially when there is such a pleasant circle round it . 
I am quite benumbed for the Notch is just like the pipe of a great pair of bellows it has blown a terrible blast in my face all the way from Bartlett . 
Then you are going towards Vermont ? said the master of the house , as he helped to take a light knapsack off the young man's shoulders . 
Yes to Burlington , and far enough beyond , replied he . 
I meant to have been at Ethan Crawford's to night but a pedestrian lingers along such a road as this . 
So I shall sit down among you , and make myself at home . 
The family held their breath , because they knew the sound , and their guest held his by instinct . 
The old mountain has thrown a stone at us , for fear we should forget him , said the landlord , recovering himself . 
He sometimes nods his head and threatens to come down but we are old neighbors , and agree together pretty well upon the whole . 
Besides we have a sure place of refuge hard by if he should be coming in good earnest . 
But this evening a prophetic sympathy impelled the refined and educated youth to pour out his heart before the simple mountaineers , and constrained them to answer him with the same free confidence . 
And thus it should have been . 
Is not the kindred of a common fate a closer tie than that of birth ? The secret of the young man's character was a high and abstracted ambition . 
He could have borne to live an undistinguished life , but not to be forgotten in the grave . 
As yet , cried the stranger his cheek glowing and his eye flashing with enthusiasm as yet , I have done nothing . 
Not a soul would ask , 'Who was he ? Whither did the wanderer go ? But I cannot die till I have achieved my destiny . 
With quick sensibility of the ludicrous , he blushed at the ardor into which he had been betrayed . 
You laugh at me , said he , taking the eldest daughter's hand , and laughing himself . 
It is strange , wife , how his talk has set my head running on things that are pretty certain never to come to pass . 
Perhaps they may , observed the wife . 
Is the man thinking what he will do when he is a widower ? No , no ! cried he , repelling the idea with reproachful kindness . 
When I think of your death , Esther , I think of mine , too . 
We're in a strange way , to night , said the wife , with tears in her eyes . 
They say it's a sign of something , when folks' minds go a wandering so . 
Hark to the children ! They listened accordingly . 
The younger children had been put to bed in another room , but with an open door between , so that they could be heard talking busily among themselves . 
At length a little boy , instead of addressing his brothers and sisters , called out to his mother . 
I'll tell you what I wish , mother , cried he . 
The boy had hardly spoken when a wagon rattled along the road , and stopped a moment before the door . 
Father , said the girl , they are calling you by name . 
But the good man doubted whether they had really called him , and was unwilling to show himself too solicitous of gain by inviting people to patronize his house . 
There , mother ! cried the boy , again . 
They'd have given us a ride to the Flume . 
Again they laughed at the child's pertinacious fancy for a night ramble . 
But it happened that a light cloud passed over the daughter's spirit she looked gravely into the fire , and drew a breath that was almost a sigh . 
It forced its way , in spite of a little struggle to repress it . 
Then starting and blushing , she looked quickly round the circle , as if they had caught a glimpse into her bosom . 
The stranger asked what she had been thinking of . 
Nothing , answered she , with a downcast smile . 
Only I felt lonesome just then . 
Oh , I have always had a gift of feeling what is in other people's hearts , said he , half seriously . 
Shall I tell the secrets of yours ? For I know what to think when a young girl shivers by a warm hearth , and complains of lonesomeness at her mother's side . 
All this was said apart . 
There was a wail along the road , as if a funeral were passing . 
The light hovered about them fondly , and caressed them all . 
The aged woman looked up from her task , and , with fingers ever busy , was the next to speak . 
Old folks have their notions , said she , as well as young ones . 
You've been wishing and planning and letting your heads run on one thing and another , till you've set my mind a wandering too . 
What is it , mother ? cried the husband and wife at once . 
But this evening an old superstition had strangely recurred to her . 
The bare thought made her nervous . 
Don't talk so , grandmother ! said the girl , shuddering . 
Who knows but I may take a glimpse at myself , and see whether all's right ? Old and young , we dream of graves and monuments , murmured the stranger youth . 
The house and all within it trembled the foundations of the earth seemed to be shaken , as if this awful sound were the peal of the last trump . 
Young and old exchanged one wild glance , and remained an instant , pale , affrighted , without utterance , or power to move . 
Then the same shriek burst simultaneously from all their lips . 
The Slide ! The Slide ! The simplest words must intimate , but not portray , the unutterable horror of the catastrophe . 
The victims rushed from their cottage , and sought refuge in what they deemed a safer spot where , in contemplation of such an emergency , a sort of barrier had been reared . 
Alas ! they had quitted their security , and fled right into the pathway of destruction . 
Down came the whole side of the mountain , in a cataract of ruin . 
Long ere the thunder of the great Slide had ceased to roar among the mountains , the mortal agony had been endured , and the victims were at peace . 
Their bodies were never found . 
The next morning , the light smoke was seen stealing from the cottage chimney up the mountain side . 
All had left separate tokens , by which those who had known the family were made to shed a tear for each . 
Who has not heard their name ? The story has been told far and wide , and will forever be a legend of these mountains . 
Poets have sung their fate . 
There were circumstances which led some to suppose that a stranger had been received into the cottage on this awful night , and had shared the catastrophe of all its inmates . 
Others denied that there were sufficient grounds for such a conjecture . 
The fact is , Mr. Brown , you must find another site for your brick block , and be content to leave my estate with the present owner . 
Next summer , I intend to put a splendid new mansion over the cellar of the old house . 
Such foundations are solid enough for your edifices , while this underneath us is just the thing for mine and so we may both be suited . 
What say you again ? Precisely what I said before , Mr. Brown , answered Peter Goldthwaite . 
And the cost , Peter , eh ? said Mr. Brown , as he withdrew , in something of a pet . 
While the means held out , his speculations had been magnificent , but were chiefly confined , of late years , to such small business as adventures in the lottery . 
They did but flutter in the wind , quoth Peter Goldthwaite . 
So here he dwelt with bad luck till good should come . 
At the close of their interview , Peter , with rather a mortified look , glanced downwards at his dress , parts of which appeared as ancient as the days of Goldthwaite Brown . 
Peter's person was in keeping with his goodly apparel . 
He raised his hand , clinched it , and smote it energetically against the smoky panel over the fireplace . 
The time is come ! said he . 
With such a treasure at command , it were folly to be a poor man any longer . 
As the feet were ragged past all darning , she had cut pieces out of a cast off flannel petticoat , to make new soles . 
Should it ever be necessary , she loved him well enough to feed him with her last morsel , and clothe him with her under petticoat . 
Hearing him threaten to tear the house down , she looked quietly up from her work . 
Best leave the kitchen till the last , Mr. Peter , said she . 
The sooner we have it all down the better , said Peter Goldthwaite . 
I am tired to death of living in this cold , dark , windy , smoky , creaking , groaning , dismal old house . 
I shall feel like a younger man when we get into my splendid brick mansion , as , please Heaven , we shall by this time next autumn . 
You shall have a room on the sunny side , old Tabby , finished and furnished as best may suit your own notions . 
I should like it pretty much such a room as this kitchen , answered Tabitha . 
It will never be like home to me till the chimney corner gets as black with smoke as this and that won't be these hundred years . 
How much do you mean to lay out on the house , Mr. Peter ? What is that to the purpose ? exclaimed Peter , loftily . 
This wealth , according to tradition , had been accumulated by a former Peter Goldthwaite , whose character seems to have borne a remarkable similitude to that of the Peter of our story . 
Like him he was a wild projector , seeking to heap up gold by the bushel and the cartload , instead of scraping it together , coin by coin . 
The present Peter's father had faith enough in the story to cause the cellar to be dug over . 
But now was the crisis . 
Yes ! cried Peter Goldthwaite , again , to morrow I will set about it . 
The deeper he looked at the matter the more certain of success grew Peter . 
His spirits were naturally so elastic that even now , in the blasted autumn of his age , he could often compete with the spring time gayety of other people . 
Enlivened by his brightening prospects , he began to caper about the kitchen like a hobgoblin , with the queerest antics of his lean limbs , and gesticulations of his starved features . 
To morrow , at sunrise , he repeated , taking his lamp to retire to bed , I'll see whether this treasure be hid in the wall of the garret . 
But the house , without losing its former aspect , had been changed into a palace of the precious metals . 
Up , betimes , rose Peter , seized an axe , hammer , and saw , which he had placed by his bedside , and hied him to the garret . 
It was but scantily lighted up , as yet , by the frosty fragments of a sunbeam , which began to glimmer through the almost opaque bull's eyes of the window . 
A moralizer might find abundant themes for his speculative and impracticable wisdom in a garret . 
There is the limbo of departed fashions , aged trifles . 
He found old moth eaten garments all in rags and tatters , or Peter would have put them on . 
Here was a naked and rusty sword , not a sword of service , but a gentleman's small French rapier , which had never left its scabbard till it lost it . 
Here were canes of twenty different sorts , but no gold headed ones , and shoe buckles of various pattern and material , but not silver nor set with precious stones . 
Here was a large box full of shoes , with high heels and peaked toes . 
And at that moment a strange notion glimmered through his brain that he was the identical Peter who had concealed the gold , and ought to know whereabout it lay . 
This , however , he had unacountably forgotten . 
Well , Mr. Peter ! cried Tabitha , on the garret stairs . 
Have you torn the house down enough to heat the teakettle ? Not yet , old Tabby , answered Peter but that's soon done as you shall see . 
We shall get our winter's wood cheap , quoth Tabitha . 
He took care , however , to leave the outside shell of the house untouched , so that the neighbors might not suspect what was going on . 
Never , in any of his vagaries , though each had made him happy while it lasted , had Peter been happier than now . 
Perhaps , after all , there was something in Peter Goldthwaite's turn of mind , which brought him an inward recompense for all the external evil that it caused . 
It was his nature to be always young , and the tendency of his mode of life to keep him so . 
At the kindling of each new fire , his burnt out youth rose afresh from the old embers and ashes . 
This was always heaped plentifully with the rubbish of his day's labor . 
All this , of course , was but an emblem of the bright fortune which the destruction of the house would shed upon its occupants . 
While the dry pine was flaming and crackling , like an irregular discharge of fairy musketry , Peter sat looking and listening , in a pleasant state of excitement . 
One night , the hundredth time , he teased Tabitha to tell him something new about his great granduncle . 
You have been sitting in that chimney corner fifty five years , old Tabby , and must have heard many a tradition about him , said Peter . 
She used to say that she and old Peter Goldthwaite had often spent a sociable evening by the kitchen fire pretty much as you and I are doing now , Mr. Peter . 
The old fellow must have resembled me in more points than one , said Peter , complacently , or he never would have grown so rich . 
Just as I swore to John Brown , my old partner , remarked Peter . 
But this is all nonsense , Tabby ! I don't believe the story . 
And as soon as Peter had given him the deed , the chest flew open , and Peter caught up a handful of the gold . 
But , lo and behold ! there was nothing in his fist but a parcel of old rags . 
Hold your tongue , you silly old Tabby ! cried Peter in great wrath . 
They were as good golden guineas as ever bore the effigies of the king of England . 
Old rags , indeed ! But it was not an old woman's legend that would discourage Peter Goldthwaite . 
All night long he slept among pleasant dreams , and awoke at daylight with a joyous throb of the heart , which few are fortunate enough to feel beyond their boyhood . 
Days and weeks passed on , however , without any remarkable discovery . 
It had formerly been the state bed chamber , and was honored by tradition as the sleeping apartment of Governor Dudley , and many other eminent guests . 
There were remnants of faded and tattered paper hangings , but larger spaces of bare wall ornamented with charcoal sketches , chiefly of people's heads in profile . 
These being specimens of Peter's youthful genius , it went more to his heart to obliterate them than if they had been pictures on a church wall by Michael Angelo . 
One sketch , however , and that the best one , affected him differently . 
But close behind him , with a fiendish laugh on his features , appeared a figure with horns , a tufted tail , and a cloven hoof . 
Avaunt , Satan ! cried Peter . 
Moreover , his axe broke quite through the plaster and laths , and discovered a cavity . 
Mercy on us , Mr. Peter , are you quarrelling with the Old Scratch ? said Tabitha , who was seeking some fuel to put under the pot . 
It contained nothing but a brass lamp , covered with verdigris , and a dusty piece of parchment . 
While Peter inspected the latter , Tabitha seized the lamp , and began to rub it with her apron . 
There is no use in rubbing it , Tabitha , said Peter . 
It is not Aladdin's lamp , though I take it to be a token of as much luck . 
Look here Tabby ! Tabitha took the parchment and held it close to her nose , which was saddled with a pair of iron bound spectacles . 
But no sooner had she began to puzzle over it than she burst into a chuckling laugh , holding both her hands against her sides . 
You can't make a fool of the old woman ! cried she . 
This is your own handwriting , Mr. Peter ! the same as in the letter you sent me from Mexico . 
There is certainly a considerable resemblance , said Peter , again examining the parchment . 
But you know yourself , Tabby , that this closet must have been plastered up before you came to the house , or I came into the world . 
But the ink has either faded or peeled off , so that it is absolutely illegible . 
What a pity ! Well , this lamp is as good as new . 
That's some comfort , said Tabitha . 
A lamp ! thought Peter . 
That indicates light on my researches . 
For the present , Peter felt more inclined to ponder on this discovery than to resume his labors . 
Peter forced it open , and looked out upon the great street of the town , while the sun looked in at his old house . 
The air , though mild , and even warm , thrilled Peter as with a dash of water . 
It was the first day of the January thaw . 
Along the street , the trodden snow was as hard and solid as a pavement of white marble , and had not yet grown moist in the spring like temperature . 
This couple rode in an old fashioned square sleigh , which had served them twenty winters , and stood twenty summers in the sun beside their door . 
Now , a gentleman and lady skimmed the snow in an elegant car , shaped somewhat like a cockle shell . 
Now came , round a corner , the similitude of Noah's ark on runners , being an immense open sleigh with seats for fifty people , and drawn by a dozen horses . 
The sleigh passed on , and , when concealed by a bend of the street , was still audible by a distant cry of merriment . 
And Peter's gaunt figure , half visible in the projecting second story , was worthy of his house . 
Peter ! How goes it , friend Peter ? cried a voice across the street , as Peter was drawing in his head . 
His voice had directed the attention of the whole town to Peter Goldthwaite's window , and to the dusty scarecrow which appeared at it . 
If I make it new , it will be new inside and out , from the cellar upwards . 
Had not you better let me take the job ? said Mr. Brown , significantly . 
Not yet ! answered Peter , hastily shutting the window for , ever since he had been in search of the treasure , he hated to have people stare at him . 
He endeavored to assume such a mien as his ancestor had probably worn , when he gloried in the building of a strong house for a home to many generations of his posterity . 
But the chamber was very dark to his snow dazzled eyes , and very dismal too , in contrast with the living scene that he had just looked upon . 
Peter Goldthwaite had exposed himself to this influence by merely looking out of the window . 
Peter , the Destroyer , resumed the task which fate had assigned him , nor faltered again till it was accomplished . 
In the course of his search , he met with many things that are usually found in the ruins of an old house , and also with some that are not . 
Peter needed no cordial to sustain his hopes , and therefore kept the wine to gladden his success . 
There was likewise a silver coronation medal of George the Third . 
We will not follow him in his triumphant progress , step by step . 
Except the kitchen , every room and chamber was now gutted . 
The house was nothing but a shell , the apparition of a house , as unreal as the painted edifices of a theatre . 
It was like the perfect rind of a great cheese , in which a mouse had dwelt and nibbled till it was a cheese no more . 
And Peter was the mouse . 
What Peter had torn down , Tabitha had burned up for she wisely considered that , without a house , they should need no wood to warm it and therefore economy was nonsense . 
Thus the whole house might be said to have dissolved in smoke , and flown up among the clouds , through the great black flue of the kitchen chimney . 
It was an admirable parallel to the feat of the man who jumped down his own throat . 
On the night between the last day of winter and the first of spring , every chink and cranny had been ransacked , except within the precincts of the kitchen . 
This fated evening was an ugly one . 
The wine , Tabitha ! he cried . 
It reminded him of his golden dream . 
Mr. Peter , remarked Tabitha , must the wine be drunk before the money is found ? The money IS found ! exclaimed Peter , with a sort of fierceness . 
The chest is within my reach . 
I will not sleep , till I have turned this key in the rusty lock . 
He then filled two little china teacups , which Tabitha had brought from the cupboard . 
Its rich and delicate perfume wasted itself round the kitchen . 
Drink , Tabitha ! cried Peter . 
Until they have finished the bottle , we must turn our eyes elsewhere . 
He was naturally a good sort of a man , and kind and pitiful whenever the misfortunes of others happened to reach his heart through the padded vest of his own prosperity . 
Poor fellow ! thought Mr. John Brown . 
Poor , crackbrained Peter Goldthwaite ! For old acquaintance' sake , I ought to have taken care that he was comfortable this rough winter . 
These feelings grew so powerful that , in spite of the inclement weather , he resolved to visit Peter Goldthwaite immediately . 
The strength of the impulse was really singular . 
Every shriek of the blast seemed a summons , or would have seemed so , had Mr. Brown been accustomed to hear the echoes of his own fancy in the wind . 
But the powers of the air had rather the best of the battle . 
There seemed little hope of his reappearance earlier than the next thaw . 
At the same moment his hat was snatched away , and whirled aloft into some far distant region , whence no tidings have as yet returned . 
Nevertheless Mr. Brown contrived to burrow a passage through the snow drift , and , with his bare head bent against the storm , floundered onward to Peter's door . 
There was such a creaking and groaning and rattling , and such an ominous shaking throughout the crazy edifice , that the loudest rap would have been inaudible to those within . 
He therefore entered , without ceremony , and groped his way to the kitchen . 
His intrusion , even there , was unnoticed . 
Peter Goldthwaite was inserting a key into the lock . 
Mr. Brown , in the mean time , had drawn near , and thrust his eager visage between those of the other two , at the instant that Peter threw up the lid . 
No sudden blaze illuminated the kitchen . 
What's here ? exclaimed Tabitha , adjusting her spectacles , and holding the lamp over the open chest . 
Old Peter Goldthwaite's hoard of old rags . 
Pretty much so , Tabby , said Mr. Brown , lifting a handful of the treasure . 
Bills of a thousand pounds were intermixed with parchment pennies , and worth no more than they . 
And this , then , is old Peter Goldthwaite's treasure ! said John Brown . 
Your namesake , Peter , was something like yourself and , when the provincial currency had depreciated fifty or seventy five per cent . 
, he bought it up in expectation of a rise . 
I have heard my grandfather say that old Peter gave his father a mortgage of this very house and land , to raise cash for his silly project . 
He went mad upon the strength of it . 
But , never mind , Peter ! It is just the sort of capital for building castles in the air . 
The house will be down about our ears ! cried Tabitha , as the wind shook it with increasing violence . 
Let it fall ! said Peter , folding his arms , as he seated himself upon the chest . 
No , no , my old friend Peter , said John Brown . 
I have house room for you and Tabby , and a safe vault for the chest of treasure . 
To morrow we will try to come to an agreement about the sale of this old house . 
Real estate is well up , and I could afford you a pretty handsome price . 
And I , observed Peter Goldthwaite , with reviving spirits , have a plan for laying out the cash to great advantage . 
His brethren of the north had now courteously invited him to be present on an occasion , when the concurrence of every eminent member of their community was peculiarly desirable . 
At his footstool stood a man and woman , both clad in the Shaker garb . 
Read their faces , I pray you , and say whether the inward movement of the spirit hath guided my choice aright . 
Accordingly , each elder looked at the two candidates with a most scrutinizing gaze . 
This pair are still in the summer of their years , observed the elder from Harvard , a shrewd old man . 
I would like better to see the hoar frost of autumn on their heads . 
Methinks , also , they will be exposed to peculiar temptations , on account of the carnal desires which have heretofore subsisted between them . 
But Adam , being of a calm and cautious character , was loath to relinquish the advantages which a single man possesses for raising himself in the world . 
Year after year , therefore , their marriage had been deferred . 
Adam Colburn had followed many vocations , had travelled far , and seen much of the world and of life . 
Still they had held fast their mutual faith . 
But neither of them desired good fortune save to share it with the other . 
At length that calm despair which occurs only in a strong and somewhat stubborn character , and yields to no second spring of hope , settled down on the spirit of Adam Colburn . 
He sought an interview with Martha , and proposed that they should join the Society of Shakers . 
The converts of this sect are oftener driven within its hospitable gates by worldly misfortune than drawn thither by fanaticism and are received without inquisition as to their motives . 
Martha , faithful still , had placed her hand in that of her lover , and accompanied him to the Shaker village . 
Their faith and feelings had , in some degree , become assimilated to those of their fellow worshippers . 
Adam Colburn gradually acquired reputation , not only in the management of the temporal affairs of the Society , but as a clear and efficient preacher of their doctrines . 
Martha was not less distinguished in the duties proper to her sex . 
They were to be the Father and Mother of the village . 
The simple ceremony , which would constitute them such , was now to be performed . 
Even my wishes of worldly success were almost dead within me . 
I came hither as a man might come to a tomb , willing to lie down in its gloom and coldness , for the sake of its peace and quiet . 
We are brother and sister nor would I have it otherwise . 
And in this peaceful village I have found all that I hoped for , all that I desire . 
I will strive , with my best strength , for the spiritual and temporal good of our community . 
My conscience is not doubtful in this matter . 
I am ready to receive the trust . 
Thou hast spoken well , son Adam , said the Father . 
God will bless thee in the office which I am about to resign . 
Adam has spoken , said she hurriedly his sentiments are likewise mine . 
It required , indeed , a more than feminine strength of nerve , to sustain the fixed observance of men so exalted and famous throughout the sect as these were . 
They had overcome their natural sympathy with human frailties and affections . 
Another , whose family refused to follow him , had been enabled such was his gift of holy fortitude to leave them to the mercy of the world . 
Old Father Ephraim was the most awful character of all . 
In his youth he had been a dissolute libertine , but was converted by Mother Ann herself , and had partaken of the wild fanaticism of the early Shakers . 
But perceiving that the elders eyed her doubtfully , she gasped for breath , and again spoke . 
With what strength is left me by my many troubles , said she , I am ready to undertake this charge , and to do my best in it . 
My children , join your hands , said Father Ephraim . 
The elders stood up around , and the Father feebly raised himself to a more erect position , but continued sitting in his great chair . 
Teach unto others the faith which ye have received . 
Receive the weary ones , who have known the vanity of earth , receive the little children , that they may never learn that miserable lesson . 
In their attention to Father Ephraim , their eyes were turned from Martha Pierson , who grew paler and paler , unnoticed even by Adam Colburn . 
He , indeed , had withdrawn his hand from hers , and folded his arms with a sense of satisfied ambition . 
It was a period when the religious exiles were accustomed often to buckle on their armor , and practise the handling of their weapons of war . 
Since the first settlement of New England , its prospects had never been so dismal . 
The dissensions between Charles the First and his subjects were then , and for several years afterwards , confined to the floor of Parliament . 
Such was the aspect of the times when the folds of the English banner , with the Red Cross in its field , were flung out over a company of Puritans . 
This piece of armor was so highly polished that the whole surrounding scene had its image in the glittering steel . 
The central object in the mirrored picture was an edifice of humble architecture with neither steeple nor bell to proclaim it what nevertheless it was the house of prayer . 
The blood was still plashing on the doorstep . 
Side by side , on the meeting house steps , stood a male and a female figure . 
His aspect showed no lack of zeal to maintain his heterodoxies , even at the stake . 
The above mentioned individuals had been sentenced to undergo their various modes of ignominy , for the space of one hour at noonday . 
Methinks he must have been grievously tempted to affix the other end of the rope to some convenient beam or bough . 
And even her own children knew what that initial signified . 
Were such the custom now , perchance we might find materials for a no less piquant sketch than the above . 
A few stately savages , in all the pomp and dignity of the primeval Indian , stood gazing at the spectacle . 
The valiant John Endicott glanced with an eye of pride at his sturdy followers , and prepared to renew the martial toils of the day . 
Come , my stout hearts ! quoth he , drawing his sword . 
Let us show these poor heathen that we can handle our weapons like men of might . 
But , as Endicott glanced right and left along the front , he discovered a personage at some little distance with whom it behooved him to hold a parley . 
His aspect was perfectly that of a pilgrim , heightened also by an apostolic dignity . 
What , ho ! good Mr. Williams , shouted Endicott . 
You are welcome back again to our town of peace . 
And for the news , here is a letter , which , knowing I was to travel hitherward to day , his Excellency committed to my charge . 
Belike it contains tidings of much import for a ship arrived yesterday from England . 
The broad seal was impressed with Winthrop's coat of arms . 
Endicott hastily unclosed the letter and began to read , while , as his eye passed down the page , a wrathful change came over his manly countenance . 
Arriving at the conclusion , he shook the letter fiercely in his hand , so that it rustled as loud as the flag above his head . 
Black tidings these , Mr. Williams , said he blacker never came to New England . 
The Governor is a wise man a wise man , and a meek and moderate , said Endicott , setting his teeth grimly . 
Nevertheless , I must do according to my own best judgment . 
Soldiers , wheel into a hollow square ! Ho , good people ! Here are news for one and all of you . 
A few taps of the drum gave signal for silence and attention . 
The savage lieth in wait for us in the dismal shadow of the woods . 
The stubborn roots of the trees break our ploughshares , when we would till the earth . 
Our children cry for bread , and we must dig in the sands of the sea shore to satisfy them . 
It was the Wanton Gospeller . 
A sad and quiet smile flitted across the mild visage of Roger Williams . 
But Endicott , in the excitement of the moment , shook his sword wrathfully at the culprit an ominous gesture from a man like him . 
What hast thou to do with conscience , thou knave ? cried he . 
I said liberty to worship God , not license to profane and ridicule him . 
Break not in upon my speech , or I will lay thee neck and heels till this time tomorrow ! Hearken to me , friends , nor heed that accursed rhapsodist . 
Hold thy peace , Roger Williams ! answered Endicott , imperiously . 
My spirit is wiser than thine for the business now in hand . 
I tell ye , fellow exiles , that Charles of England , and Laud , our bitterest persecutor , arch priest of Canterbury , are resolute to pursue us even hither . 
They are taking counsel , saith this letter , to send over a governor general , in whose breast shall be deposited all the law and equity of the land . 
Look ye to it , brethren , resumed Endicott , with increasing energy . 
We shall hear the sacring bell , and the voices of the Romish priests saying the mass . 
Officer , lower your banner ! said he . 
The officer obeyed and , brandishing his sword , Endicott thrust it through the cloth , and , with his left hand , rent the Red Cross completely out of the banner . 
He then waved the tattered ensign above his head . 
He hath defaced the King's banner ! Before God and man , I will avouch the deed , answered Endicott . 
Beat a flourish , drummer ! shout , soldiers and people ! in honor of the ensign of New England . 
Neither Pope nor Tyrant hath part in it now ! With a cry of triumph , the people gave their sanction to one of the boldest exploits which our history records . 
