Beads of perspiration followed the seams of his high , wrinkled forehead , replacing the tears which might have lessened the pressure upon his overwrought nerves . 
His slender frame shook , as with ague , and at times was racked by a convulsive shudder . 
A sudden step upon the stairway leading to his workshop brought him trembling and wide eyed to his feet , staring fearfully at the locked and bolted door . 
Although he knew perfectly well whose the advancing footfalls were , he was all but overcome by the madness of apprehension as they came softly nearer and nearer to the barred door . 
At last they halted before it , to be followed by a gentle knock . 
Daddy ! came the sweet tones of a girl's voice . 
The man made an effort to take a firm grasp upon himself that no tell tale evidence of his emotion might be betrayed in his speech . 
Daddy ! called the girl again , a trace of anxiety in her voice this time . 
You'll kill yourself with your stuffy old experiments . 
Don't worry about me , sweetheart , he replied in a well controlled voice . 
I'll soon be through now soon be through and then we'll go away for a long vacation for a long vacation . 
He knew that his daughter was equal to her threat . 
All right , sweetheart , I'll be through by noon for sure by noon for sure . 
Run along and play now , like a good little girl . 
Virginia Maxon shrugged her shapely shoulders and shook her head hopelessly at the forbidding panels of the door . 
My dolls are all dressed for the day , she cried , and I'm tired of making mud pies I want you to come out and play with me . 
But Professor Maxon did not reply he had returned to view his grim operations , and the hideousness of them had closed his ears to the sweet tones of the girl's voice . 
As she turned to retrace her steps to the floor below Miss Maxon still shook her head . 
Poor old Daddy , she mused , were I a thousand years old , wrinkled and toothless , he would still look upon me as his baby girl . 
Had he told them the truth they would have laughed at him . 
The following afternoon found him and Virginia crossing the station platform to board the express for New York . 
It was a tall well built young man who nudged one of his younger companions as the girl crossed the platform to enter her Pullman . 
I say , Dexter , he exclaimed , who is that beauty ? The one addressed turned in the direction indicated by his friend . 
By jove ! he exclaimed . 
Why it's Virginia Maxon and the professor , her father . 
Now where do you suppose they're going ? I don't know now , replied the first speaker , Townsend J. Harper , Jr . 
, in a half whisper , but I'll bet you a new car that I find out . 
The result was that at Manila , much to Virginia's surprise , he announced the abandonment of the balance of their purposed voyage , taking immediate return passage to Singapore . 
While it grieved her immeasurably she was both too proud and too hurt to sue for a reestablishment of the old relations . 
On all other topics than his scientific work their interests were as mutual as formerly , but by what seemed a manner of tacit agreement this subject was taboo . 
And so it was that they came to Singapore without the girl having the slightest conception of her father's plans . 
Here they spent nearly a month , during which time Professor Maxon was daily engaged in interviewing officials , English residents and a motley horde of Malays and Chinamen . 
Thereafter her wounded pride made easy the task of those who seemed combined to keep her in ignorance . 
von Horn , who had been oftenest with her father , who gave her the first intimation of what was forthcoming . 
Afterward , in recollecting the conversation , it seemed to Virginia that the young man had been directed to break the news to her , that her father might be spared the ordeal . 
You are glad to be leaving Singapore so soon ? he had asked , although he knew that she had not been advised that an early departure was planned . 
I am rather looking forward to it , replied Virginia . 
And to a protracted residence on one of the Pamarung Islands ? continued von Horn . 
Why not ? was her rather non committal reply , though she had not the remotest idea of their location . 
Von Horn admired her nerve though he rather wished that she would ask some questions it was difficult making progress in this way . 
That will be a long time in which to be isolated upon a savage little speck of land off the larger but no less savage Borneo . 
Do you think that your bravery is equal to the demands that will be made upon it ? Virginia laughed , nor was there the slightest tremor in its note . 
She used the last words on a chance that she might have hit upon the true reason for the contemplated isolation from civilization . 
Perceiving her advantage from the expression on the young man's face , Virginia followed it up in an endeavor to elicit the details . 
The precise point of destination was still undecided the plan being to search out a suitable location upon one of the many little islets which dot the western shore of the Macassar Strait . 
Of the many men Virginia had met during the month at Singapore von Horn had been by far the most interesting and companionable . 
He talked to her as he might have talked to a man , of the things that interest intelligent people regardless of sex . 
There was never any suggestion of familiarity in his manner nor in his choice of topics did he ever ignore the fact that she was a young girl . 
The voyage from Singapore to the Islands was without incident . 
It was uninhabited , fertile and possessed a clear , sweet brook which had its source in a cold spring in the higher land at the island's center . 
The cook , a harmless old Chinaman , and Virginia were left in sole possession of the Ithaca . 
Of a sudden she realized how wide had become the gulf between them now . 
The girl became aware also of other subtle changes in her father . 
There had been too , recently , a strange lack of consideration for herself that had wounded her more than she had imagined . 
Presently her attention was arrested by a tossing speck far out upon the rolling bosom of the strait . 
For some time the girl watched the object until at length it resolved itself into a boat moving head on toward the island . 
Later she saw that it was long and low , propelled by a single sail and many oars , and that it carried quite a company . 
Thinking it but a native trading boat , so many of which ply the southern seas , Virginia viewed its approach with but idle curiosity . 
On the instant the old Chinaman was electrified into sudden and astounding action . 
Klick ! Klick ! he cried , running toward Virginia . 
Why should I go below , Sing ? queried the girl , amazed by the demeanor of the cook . 
Klick ! Klick ! he urged grasping her by the arm half leading , half dragging her toward the companion way . 
Plilates ! Mlalay plilates Dyak plilates . 
Oh Sing , what can we do ? You go b'low . 
Chase'm 'way , explained the Chinaman . 
But plilates see 'em pletty white girl , he shrugged his shoulders and shook his head dubiously , then old Sing no can flighten 'em 'way . 
The girl shuddered , and crouching close behind Sing hurried below . 
A moment later she heard the boom of the old brass six pounder which for many years had graced the Ithaca's stern . 
In the bow Professor Maxon had mounted a modern machine gun , but this was quite beyond Sing's simple gunnery . 
Sing realized that the boat might contain friendly natives , but he had cruised these waters too many years to take chances . 
Better kill a hundred friends , he thought , than be captured by a single pirate . 
At the shot the prahu slowed up , and a volley of musketry from her crew satisfied Sing that he had made no mistake in classifying her . 
Her fire fell short as did the ball from the small cannon mounted in her bow . 
Virginia was watching the prahu from one of the cabin ports . 
It was apparent that the pirates had perceived the almost defenseless condition of the schooner . 
In a few minutes they would be swarming the deck , for poor old Sing would be entirely helpless to repel them . 
von Horn were only there , thought the distracted girl . 
With the machine gun alone he might keep them off . 
At the thought of the machine gun a sudden resolve gripped her . 
Why not man it herself ? Von Horn had explained its mechanism to her in detail , and on one occasion had allowed her to operate it on the voyage from Singapore . 
With the thought came action . 
Running to the magazine she snatched up a feed belt , and in another moment was on deck beside the astonished Sing . 
The pirates were skimming rapidly across the smooth waters of the harbor , answering Sing's harmless shots with yells of derision and wild , savage war cries . 
There were , perhaps , fifty Dyaks and Malays fierce , barbaric men mostly naked to the waist , or with war coats of brilliant colors . 
What do ? What do ? cried Sing in consternation . 
Klick ! But before he had finished his exhortation Virginia was racing toward the bow where the machine gun was mounted . 
Virginia was quick to perceive the necessity for haste , while the pirates at the same instant realized the menace of the new danger which confronted them . 
A score of muskets belched forth their missiles at the fearless girl behind the scant shield of the machine gun . 
Leaden pellets rained heavily upon her protection , or whizzed threateningly about her head and then she got the gun into action . 
It was the Rajah Muda Saffir he had seen the girl's face and at the sight of it the blood lust in his breast had been supplanted by another . 
At sight of the emblem of peace Virginia ceased firing . 
She saw the tall Malay issue a few commands , the oarsmen bent to their work , the prahu came about , making off toward the harbor's entrance . 
At the same moment there was a shot from the shore followed by loud yelling , and the girl turned to see her father and von Horn pulling rapidly toward the Ithaca . 
THE HEAVY CHEST Virginia and Sing were compelled to narrate the adventure of the afternoon a dozen times . 
The Chinaman was at a loss to understand what had deterred the pirates at the very threshold of victory . 
The old Chinaman was positive that the pirates had some ulterior motive for simulating defeat , and his long years of experience upon pirate infested waters gave weight to his opinion . 
The weak spot in his argument was his inability to suggest a reasonable motive . 
And so it was that for a long time they were left to futile conjecture as to the action that had saved them from a bloody encounter with these bloodthirsty sea wolves . 
For a week the men were busy constructing the new camp , but never again was Virginia left without a sufficient guard for her protection . 
Von Horn was always needed at the work , for to him had fallen the entire direction of matters of importance that were at all of a practical nature . 
The camp was at last completed , and on a Saturday afternoon all the heavier articles from the ship had been transported to it . 
On the following Monday the balance of the goods was to be sent on shore and the party were to transfer their residence to their new quarters . 
Late Sunday afternoon a small native boat was seen rounding the point at the harbor's southern extremity , and after a few minutes it drew alongside the Ithaca . 
There were but three men in it two Dyaks and a Malay . 
The latter was a tall , well built man of middle age , of a sullen and degraded countenance . 
His garmenture was that of the ordinary Malay boatman , but there was that in his mien and his attitude toward his companions which belied his lowly habiliments . 
In answer to von Horn's hail the man asked if he might come aboard and trade but once on the deck it developed that he had not brought nothing wherewith to trade . 
He seemed not the slightest disconcerted by this discovery , stating that he would bring such articles as they wished when he had learned what their requirements were . 
The ubiquitous Sing was on hand during the interview , but from his expressionless face none might guess what was passing through the tortuous channels of his Oriental mind . 
Shortly afterward he left , promising to return with provisions the following day . 
But it was to be months before they again saw him . 
That evening as Sing was serving Virginia's supper he asked her if she had recognized their visitor of the afternoon . 
Why no , Sing , she replied , I never saw him before . 
Sh ! admonished the celestial . 
No talkee so strong , wallee have ear all same labbit . 
What do you mean , Sing ? asked the girl in a low voice . 
How perfectly weird and mysterious you are . 
Why you make the cold chills run up my spine , she ended , laughing . 
But Sing did not return her smile as was his custom . 
You no lememba tallee Lajah stand up wavee lite clothee in plilate boat , ah ? he urged . 
You lookee out , Linee , which was the closest that Sing had ever been able to come to pronouncing Virginia . 
Why should I look out ? He doesn't want me , said the girl , laughingly . 
Don't you bee too damee sure 'bout lat , Linee , was Sing's inelegant but convincing reply , as he turned toward his galley . 
The following morning the party , with the exception of three Malays who were left to guard the Ithaca , set out for the new camp . 
The enclosure at the far end of the palisade was for the Malay and lascar crew and there also were quarters for Bududreen and the Malay second mate . 
The center enclosure contained Professor Maxon's workshop . 
She wondered for whom they could be intended . 
The discovery perplexed her not a little , but so changed were her relations with her father that she would not question him upon this or any other subject . 
Why workee alsame lascar boy ? Eh ? But Virginia could give no reason . 
I am afraid you don't like Bududreen , Sing , she said . 
Has he ever harmed you in any way ? Him ? No , him no hurt Sing . 
Sing poor , with which more or less enigmatical rejoinder the Chinaman returned to his work . 
For a couple of months the life of the little hidden camp went on peacefully and without exciting incident . 
The Malay and lascar crew divided their time between watch duty on board the Ithaca , policing the camp , and cultivating a little patch of clearing just south of their own campong . 
Bududreen often accompanied these expeditions , and on several occasions the lynx eyed Sing had seen him returning to camp long after the others had retired for the night . 
Professor Maxon scarcely ever left the central enclosure . 
What a marvellous thing is creation , exclaimed Virginia as she and von Horn paused one day to admire a tropical bird of unusually brilliant plumage . 
How insignificant is man's greatest achievement beside the least of Nature's works . 
And yet , replied von Horn , man shall find Nature's secret some day . 
What a glorious accomplishment for him who first succeeds . 
Can you imagine a more glorious consummation of a man's life work your father's , for example ? The girl looked at von Horn closely . 
von Horn , she said , pride has restrained me from asking what was evidently intended that I should not know . 
Am I right ? Von Horn had attempted to sound the girl that he might , if possible , discover her attitude toward the work in which her father and he were engaged . 
He had succeeded beyond his hopes , for he had not intended that she should guess so much of the truth as she had . 
That you are here , he added , is my excuse for continuing my connection with certain things of which my conscience does not approve . 
The girl glanced at him quickly . 
She did not fully understand the motive for his final avowal , and a sudden intuition kept her from questioning him . 
Professor Maxon listened to the narration in silence . 
When von Horn had finished , he cautioned him against divulging to Virginia anything that took place within the inner campong . 
She is only a child , he said , and would not understand the importance of the work we are doing . 
The future of the world will be assured when once we have demonstrated the possibility of the chemical production of a perfect race . 
Number One , for example , suggested von Horn . 
Professor Maxon glanced at him sharply . 
Levity , Doctor , is entirely out of place in the contemplation of the magnificent work I have already accomplished , said the professor tartly . 
Forgive me , Professor , von Horn hastened to urge . 
I did not intend to deride the wonderful discoveries which you have made , but it is only natural that we should both realize that Number One is not beautiful . 
To one another we may say what we would not think of suggesting to outsiders . 
Professor Maxon was mollified by this apology , and turned to resume his watch beside a large , coffin shaped vat . 
For a while von Horn was silent . 
So the doctor decided to broach the subject now , as being psychologically as favorable a time as any . 
Your daughter is far from happy , Professor , he said , nor do I feel that , surrounded as we are by semi savage men , she is entirely safe . 
Professor Maxon looked up from his vigil by the vat , eyeing von Horn closely . 
There had been no indication in von Horn's attitude toward the girl that he loved her . 
For years he had roved the world in search of adventure and excitement . 
Then the professor arose from his seat and came very close to the younger man , until his face was only a few inches from von Horn's . 
Doctor , he whispered in a strange , tense voice , you are mad . 
You do not know what you ask . 
Virginia is not for such as you . 
Tell me that she does not know of your feelings toward her . 
Tell me that she does not reciprocate your love . 
Tell me the truth , man . 
Professor Maxon seized von Horn roughly by both shoulders , his glittering eyes glaring terribly into the other's . 
I have never spoken to her of love , Professor , replied von Horn quietly , nor do I know what her sentiments toward me may be . 
Nor do I understand , sir , what objections you may have to me I am of a very old and noble family . 
His tone was haughty but respectful . 
Professor Maxon released his hold upon his assistant , breathing a sigh of relief . 
I am glad , he said , that it has gone no further , for it must not be . 
I have other , nobler aspirations for my daughter . 
She must wed a perfect man none such now exists . 
It remains for me to bring forth the ideal mate for her nor is the time far distant . 
A few more weeks and we shall see such a being as I have long dreamed . 
Again the queer light flickered for a moment in the once kindly and jovial eyes of the scientist . 
He was a man of little sentiment . 
Without a word he turned and left the campong . 
A moment later Sing's knock aroused Professor Maxon from the reverie into which he had fallen , and he stepped to the trap door to receive his evening meal . 
BEAUTY AND THE BEAST One day , about two weeks later , von Horn and the professor were occupied closely with their work in the court of mystery . 
Developments were coming in riotous confusion . 
A recent startling discovery bade fare to simplify and expedite the work far beyond the fondest dreams of the scientist . 
Sing Lee , the noonday meal having been disposed of , set forth with rod , string and bait to snare gulls upon the beach . 
I tell you , Bududreen , that it will be quite safe , the tall Malay was saying . 
You yourself tell me that none knows of the whereabouts of these white men , and if they do not return your word will be accepted as to their fate . 
Both men had arisen now and were walking across the beach toward a small , native canoe in which Muda Saffir had come to the meeting place . 
He did not fish for gulls that day . 
Bududreen and Muda Saffir stood talking upon the beach , and the Chinaman did not dare venture forth for fear they might suspect that he had overheard them . 
Professor Maxon and von Horn were standing over one of the six vats that were arranged in two rows down the center of the laboratory . 
And what of these first who are so imperfect ? asked von Horn . 
You cannot take them into civilization , nor would it be right to leave them here upon this island . 
What will you do with them ? Professor Maxon pondered the question for a moment . 
I have given the matter but little thought , he said at length . 
They are but the accidents of my great work . 
And this is but the beginning . 
There can be no more mistakes now , though I doubt if we can ever improve upon that which is so rapidly developing here . 
Again he passed his long , slender hand caressingly over the coffin like vat at the head of which was a placard bearing the words , NUMBER THIRTEEN . 
But the others , Professor ! insisted von Horn . 
Already they have become a problem of no small dimensions . 
Yesterday Number Five desired some plantains that I had given to Number Seven . 
I tried to reason with him , but , as you know , he is mentally defective , and for answer he rushed at Number Seven to tear the coveted morsel from him . 
The result was a battle royal that might have put to shame two Bengal tigers . 
Twelve is tractable and intelligent . 
With his assistance and my bull whip I succeeded in separating them before either was killed . 
Your greatest error was in striving at first for such physical perfection . 
They are as they are , replied the professor . 
I shall do for them what I can when I am gone they must look to themselves . 
I can see no way out of it . 
What you have given you may take away , said von Horn , in a low tone . 
Those three horrid days in the workshop at Ithaca flooded his memory with all the gruesome details he had tried for so many months to forget . 
They are They are THINGS , interrupted von Horn . 
They are not human they are not even beast . 
They are terrible , soulless creatures . 
You have no right to permit them to live longer than to substantiate your theory . 
None but us knows of their existence no other need know of their passing . 
They are a constant and growing menace to us all , but most of all to your daughter . 
A cunning look came into the professor's eyes . 
I understand , he said . 
But no ! he went on in a high , trembling voice . 
I shall not be led to thus compromise myself , and be thwarted in my cherished plan . 
In his eyes blazed the light of unchained madness . 
Von Horn was a brave man , but he shuddered at the maniacal ferocity of the older man , and shrank back . 
The futility of argument was apparent , and he turned and left the workshop . 
Sing Lee was late that night . 
In fact he did not return from his fruitless quest for gulls until well after dark , nor would he vouchsafe any explanation of the consequent lateness of supper . 
Nor could he be found shortly after the evening meal when Virginia sought him . 
Not until the camp was wrapped in the quiet of slumber did Sing Lee return stealthy and mysterious to creep under cover of a moonless night to the door of the workshop . 
But there was no occasion for his haste no other ear than his had heard the sound within the workshop . 
It was almost nine the following morning before Professor Maxon and von Horn entered the laboratory . 
Scarcely had the older man passed the doorway than he drew up his hands in horrified consternation . 
Vat Number Thirteen lay dashed to the floor the glass cover was broken to a million pieces a sticky , brownish substance covered the matting . 
Professor Maxon hid his face in his hands . 
Three more days would have Look ! cried von Horn . 
It is not too soon . 
Professor Maxon mustered courage to raise his eyes from his hands , and there he beheld , seated in a far corner of the room a handsome giant , physically perfect . 
The creature looked about him in a dazed , uncomprehending manner . 
A great question was writ large upon his intelligent countenance . 
Professor Maxon stepped forward and took him by the hand . 
Come , he said , and led him toward a smaller room off the main workshop . 
The giant followed docilely , his eyes roving about the room the pitiful questioning still upon his handsome features . 
Von Horn turned toward the campong . 
What danger can there be ? she thought . 
We know that the island is uninhabited by others than ourselves , and that there are no dangerous beasts . 
And , anyway , there is no one now who seems to care what becomes of me , unless unless I wonder if he does care . 
I wonder if I care whether or not he cares . 
Oh , dear , I wish I knew , and as she soliloquized she wandered past the little clearing and into the jungle that lay behind the campong . 
Finally it paused to look once more at the senseless wood that barred its escape , as though measuring the distance to the top . 
Then the eyes roamed about the campong to rest at last upon the slanting roof of the thatched shed which was its shelter . 
Presently a slow idea was born in the poor , malformed brain . 
The creature approached the shed . 
He could just reach the saplings that formed the frame work of the roof . 
Like a huge sloth he drew himself to the roof of the structure . 
From here he could see beyond the palisade , and the wild freedom of the jungle called to him . 
He did not know what it was but in its leafy wall he perceived many breaks and openings that offered concealment from the creatures who were plotting to take his life . 
The creature glanced fearfully toward the workshop . 
He tried to reach across the distance between the roof and the palisade , and in the attempt lost his balance and nearly precipitated himself to the ground below . 
Cautiously he drew back , still looking about for some means to cross the chasm . 
One of the saplings of the roof , protruding beyond the palm leaf thatch , caught his attention . 
With a single wrench he tore it from its fastenings . 
Extending it toward the palisade he discovered that it just spanned the gap , but he dared not attempt to cross upon its single slender strand . 
Quickly he ripped off a half dozen other poles from the roof , and laying them side by side , formed a safe and easy path to freedom . 
A moment more and he sat astride the top of the wall . 
Drawing the poles after him , he dropped them one by one to the ground outside the campong . 
Then he lowered himself to liberty . 
Gathering the saplings under one huge arm he ran , lumberingly , into the jungle . 
He would not leave evidence of the havoc he had wrought the fear of the bull whip was still strong upon him . 
The green foliage closed about him and the peaceful jungle gave no sign of the horrid brute that roamed its shadowed mazes . 
As von Horn stepped into the campong his quick eye perceived the havoc that had been wrought with the roof at the east end of the shed . 
Quickly he crossed to the low structure . 
Within its compartments a number of deformed monsters squatted upon their haunches , or lay prone upon the native mats that covered the floor . 
Von Horn ran his eyes over the hideous assemblage . 
Where is Number One ? he asked , directing his question toward a thing whose forehead gave greater promise of intelligence than any of his companions . 
The one addressed shook his head . 
Von Horn turned and made a circuit of the campong . 
There was no sign of the missing one and no indication of any other irregularity than the demolished portion of the roof . 
With an expression of mild concern upon his face he entered the workshop . 
Number One has escaped into the jungle , Professor , he said . 
Professor Maxon looked up in surprise , but before he had an opportunity to reply a woman's scream , shrill with horror , smote upon their startled ears . 
Von Horn was the first to reach the campong of the whites . 
Professor Maxon was close behind him , and the faces of both were white with apprehension . 
Not even Sing was there . 
Without a word the two men sprang through the gateway and raced for the jungle in the direction from which that single , haunting cry had come . 
Virginia Maxon , idling beneath the leafy shade of the tropical foliage , became presently aware that she had wandered farther from the campong than she had intended . 
The day was sultry , and the heat , even in the dense shade of the jungle , oppressive . 
Slowly she retraced her steps , her eyes upon the ground , her mind absorbed in sad consideration of her father's increasing moodiness and eccentricity . 
Possibly it was this very abstraction which deadened her senses to the near approach of another . 
The sudden shock brought a single involuntary scream from her lips . 
And who can wonder ! The thing thrust so unexpectedly before her eyes was hideous in the extreme . 
One eye was fully twice the diameter of the other , and an inch above the horizontal plane of its tiny mate . 
The nose was but a gaping orifice above a deformed and twisted mouth . 
The thing was chinless , and its small , foreheadless head surrounded its colossal body like a cannon ball on a hill top . 
A sudden grimace lighted the frightful face as the grotesque eyes fell upon this new creature . 
Number One had never before seen a woman , but the sight of this one awoke in the unplumbed depths of his soulless breast a great desire to lay his hands upon her . 
Number One lurched forward , his arms outstretched toward the horror stricken girl . 
Virginia tried to cry out again she tried to turn and run but the horror of her impending fate and the terror that those awful features induced left her paralyzed and helpless . 
The thing was almost upon her now . 
The mouth was wide in a hideous attempt to smile . 
The battle was short short and terrible . 
The valiant Chinaman sought the ashen throat of his antagonist , but his wiry , sinewy muscles were as reeds beneath the force of that inhuman power that opposed them . 
Then lifting Virginia in his arms once more he dived into the impenetrable mazes of the jungle that lined the more open pathway between the beach and camp . 
He saw before him a great walled enclosure roofed by a lofty azure dome , and beyond the walls the tops of green trees swaying gently in the soft breezes . 
His nostrils tasted the incense of fresh earth and growing things . 
For the first time he felt the breath of Nature , free and unconfined , upon his brow . 
His virgin mind was filled with wonder at the wealth of new impressions which surged to his brain through every sense . 
He longed for more , and the open gateway of the campong was a scarce needed invitation to pass to the wide world beyond . 
With the free and easy tread of utter unconsciousness of self , he passed across the enclosure and stepped out into the clearing which lay between the palisade and the jungle . 
Now before him , behind , on either side there was naught but glorious green beauty shot with splashes of gorgeous color that made him gasp in wonderment . 
What a horrid creature ! But on the same instant his eyes fell upon another borne in the arms of the terrible one . 
This one was different very different , soft and beautiful and white . 
Something told him that it was the ugly thing that carried her that was the author of her suffering . 
At the sight of the man her voice returned with returning hope , and she reached her arms toward him , calling upon him to save her . 
Although he did not respond she thought that he understood for he sprang toward them before her appeal was scarce uttered . 
So it was that the awful giant found his single hand helpless to cope with the strength of his foeman , and in a brief instant felt powerful fingers clutching at his throat . 
His captive sank to the ground , too weak from the effects of nervous shock to escape , and with horror filled eyes watched the two who battled over her . 
Here was a problem indeed . 
And so he acted as a child acts , in imitation of what it has seen others do . 
The brute had been carrying the lovely creature , therefore that must be the thing for him to do , and so he stooped and gathered Virginia Maxon in his great arms . 
Instead he stood irresolute for a time , and then moved slowly through the jungle . 
By chance his direction was toward the camp , and this fact so relieved the girl's mind that presently she was far from loath to remain quietly in his arms . 
After a moment she gained courage to look up into his face . 
Possibly he was a new arrival his presence unguessed even by her father . 
That he was neither English nor American was evident from the fact that he could not understand her native tongue . 
Now he kept his eyes upon her face as he walked , and a new emotion filled his breast . 
He did not understand it , but it was very pleasant , and he knew that it was because of the radiant thing that he carried in his arms . 
For God's sake , Sing , what is the matter ? cried von Horn . 
Where is Miss Maxon ? Big blute , he catchem Linee . 
Wakee up all glone , moaned the Chinaman as he tried to gain his feet . 
Which way did he take her ? urged von Horn . 
The trail of the creature was bewilderingly erratic . 
Klick ! Look see ! he cried excitedly . 
Blig blute dead vely muchee dead . 
Von Horn rushed forward to where the Chinaman was leaning over the body of Number One . 
Sure enough , the great brute lay motionless , its horrid face even more hideous in death than in life , if it were possible . 
The face was black , the tongue protruded , the skin was bruised from the heavy fists of his assailant and the thick skull crushed and splintered from terrific impact with the tree . 
Professor Maxon leaned over von Horn's shoulder . 
Ah , poor Number One , he sighed , that you should have come to such an untimely end my child , my child . 
Von Horn looked at him , a tinge of compassion in his rather hard face . 
Though there are twelve more , continued Professor Maxon , you were my first born son and I loved you most , dear child . 
The younger man was horrified . 
My God , Professor ! he cried . 
Are you mad ? Can you call this thing child' and mourn over it when you do not yet know the fate of your own daughter ? Professor Maxon looked up sadly . 
You do not understand , Dr . 
von Horn , he replied coldly , and you will oblige me , in the future , by not again referring to the offspring of my labors as things . 
With an ugly look upon his face von Horn turned his back upon the older man what little feeling of loyalty and affection he had ever felt for him gone forever . 
Sing was looking about for evidences of the cause of Number One's death and the probable direction in which Virginia Maxon had disappeared . 
What on earth could have killed this enormous brute , Sing ? Have you any idea ? asked von Horn . 
The Chinaman shook his head . 
No savvy , he replied . 
This way , cried Sing presently , and started off once more into the brush , but this time in a northwesterly direction , toward camp . 
Could it be ? There seemed no other explanation . 
Virginia Maxon had been rescued from one soulless monstrosity to fall into the hands of another equally irresponsible and terrifying . 
Others then must have escaped from the campong . 
Von Horn loosened his guns in their holsters , and took a fresh grip upon his bull whip as he urged Sing forward upon the trail . 
He wondered which one it was , but not once did it occur to him that the latest result of Professor Maxon's experiments could be the rescuer of Virginia Maxon . 
In his mind he could see only the repulsive features of one of the others . 
Quite unexpectedly they came upon the two , and with a shout von Horn leaped forward , his bull whip upraised . 
Out of the way , you monstrosity , cried von Horn . 
His revolver exploded harmlessly in the air , and then another hand wrenched it from him and hurled it far into the underbrush . 
Virginia Maxon looked on in horror as she realized that her rescuer was quickly choking Dr . 
Again Number Thirteen translated the intent without understanding the words , and releasing von Horn permitted him to rise . 
Simultaneously Professor Maxon sprang from his grasp and hurled him back with the superhuman strength of a maniac . 
What would you do ? Kill , and then of a sudden he realized his daughter's presence and the necessity for keeping the origin of the young giant from her knowledge . 
I am surprised at you , Dr . 
von Horn , he continued in a more level voice . 
You must indeed have forgotten yourself to thus attack a stranger upon our island until you know whether he be friend or foe . 
Come ! Escort my daughter to the camp , while I make the proper apologies to this gentleman . 
As he saw that both Virginia and von Horn hesitated , he repeated his command in a peremptory tone , adding Quick , now do as I bid you . 
At Professor Maxon's direction Sing accompanied them . 
Until after dark the professor kept the young man hidden in the jungle , and then , safe from detection , led him back to the laboratory . 
He realized that first he must let the girl fully understand the grave peril in which she stood , and turn her hope of protection from her father to himself . 
The girl's own questioning gave him the lead he needed . 
Where could that horrid creature have come from that set upon me in the jungle and nearly killed poor Sing ? she asked . 
For a moment von Horn was silent , in well simulated hesitancy to reply to her query . 
I cannot imagine what you hint at , Dr . 
von Horn , said Virginia , but if to explain to me will necessitate betraying my father's confidence I prefer that you remain silent . 
You do not understand , broke in the man , you cannot guess the horrors that I have seen upon this island , or the worse horrors that are to come . 
Could you dream of what lies in store for you , you would seek death rather than face the future . 
You asked where the creature came from that attacked you today . 
It is one of a dozen similarly hideous things that your father has created in his mad desire to solve the problem of life . 
He has solved it but , God , at what a price in misshapen , soulless , hideous monsters ! The girl looked up at him , horror stricken . 
They are grotesque caricatures of humanity without soul and almost without brain . 
God ! murmured the girl , burying her face in her hands , he has gone mad he has gone mad . 
I truly believe that he is mad , said von Horn , nor could you doubt it for a moment were I to tell you the worst . 
The worst ! exclaimed the girl . 
What could be worse than that which you already have divulged ? Oh , how could you have permitted it ? There is much worse than I have told you , Virginia . 
So much worse that I can scarce force my lips to frame the words , but you must be told . 
I would be more criminally liable than your father were I to keep it from you , for my brain , at least , is not crazed . 
Von Horn grasped her arm gently as he went on , as though to support and protect her during the shock that he was about to administer . 
Virginia , he said in a very low voice , it is your father's intention to wed you to one of his creatures . 
The girl broke from him with an angry cry . 
It is not true ! she exclaimed . 
von Horn how could you tell me such a cruel and terrible untruth . 
As God is my judge , Virginia , and the man reverently uncovered as he spoke , it is the truth . 
Your father told me it in so many words when I asked his permission to pay court to you myself you are to marry Number Thirteen when his education is complete . 
I shall die first ! she cried . 
Why not accept me instead ? suggested the man . 
For a moment Virginia looked straight into his eyes as though to read his inmost soul . 
Let me have time to consider it , Doctor , she replied . 
I do not know that I care for you in that way at all . 
Think of Number Thirteen , he suggested . 
It should not be difficult to decide . 
I could not marry you simply to escape a worse fate , replied the girl . 
I am not that cowardly but let me think it over . 
There can be no immediate danger , I am sure . 
One can never tell , replied von Horn , what strange , new vagaries may enter a crazed mind to dictate this moment's action or the next . 
Where could we wed ? asked Virginia . 
The Ithaca would bear us to Singapore , and when we returned you would be under my legal protection and safe . 
I shall think about it from every angle , she answered sadly , and now good night , my dear friend , and with a wan smile she entered her quarters . 
For the next month Professor Maxon was busy educating Number Thirteen . 
He found the young man intelligent far beyond his most sanguine hopes , so that the progress made was little short of uncanny . 
The fact that he could find no safe means for accomplishing both these ends simultaneously was all that had protected either from his machinations . 
By boring a hole in the partition wall separating their campong from the inner one he had disclosed to the horrified view of his men the fearsome brutes harbored so close to them . 
This explanation the crew embraced willingly , and with it Bududreen's suggestion that Professor Maxon had power to transform them all into similar atrocities . 
The ball once started gained size and momentum as it progressed . 
The professor's ofttimes strange expression was attributed to an evil eye , and every ailment suffered by any member of the crew was blamed upon their employer's Satanic influence . 
Von Horn was really the only stumbling block in Bududreen's path . 
To this end he had spent considerable time with Number Thirteen , coaching him in English and in the ethics of human association . 
He is progressing splendidly , Doctor , Professor Maxon had said . 
And if that should not occur ? questioned von Horn . 
You will wait for the final consummation of your desires until you return with them to civilization , I presume , said von Horn . 
And why ? returned the professor . 
I can wed them here myself it would be the surer way yes , that is what I shall do . 
It was this determination on the part of Professor Maxon that decided von Horn to act at once . 
Further , it lent a reasonable justification for his purposed act . 
Shortly after their talk the older man left the workshop , and von Horn took the opportunity to inaugurate the second move of his campaign . 
Number Thirteen was sitting near a window which let upon the inner court , busy with the rudiments of written English . 
Yes , replied the other , looking up with a smile . 
Professor Maxon says that in another day or two I may come and live in his own house , and again meet his beautiful daughter . 
I wonder if she will remember me . 
I wonder if she will be as glad to see me again as I shall be to see her . 
Jack , said von Horn , sadly , I am afraid there is a terrible and disappointing awakening for you . 
You are not as other men . 
You are but the accident of a laboratory experiment . 
You have no soul , and the soul is all that raises man above the beasts . 
Jack , poor boy , you are not a human being you are not even a beast . 
Look , and the man pointed through the window toward the group of hideous things that wandered aimlessly about the court of mystery . 
You are of the same breed as those , you differ from them only in the symmetry of your face and features , and the superior development of your brain . 
There is no place in the world for them , nor for you . 
I am sorry that it is so . 
No sob shook his great frame , there was no outward indication of the terrible grief that racked him inwardly only in the pose was utter dejection and hopelessness . 
The older man could not repress a cold smile it had had more effect than he had hoped . 
Don't take it too hard , my boy , he continued . 
It would be easy to find a thousand places where your antecedents would be neither known nor questioned . 
You might be very happy elsewhere and there a hundred thousand girls as beautiful and sweet as Virginia Maxon remember that you have never seen another , so you can scarcely judge . 
Why did he ever bring me into the world ? exclaimed the young man suddenly . 
It was wicked wicked terribly cruel and wicked . 
I agree with you , said von Horn quickly , seeing another possibility that would make his future plans immeasurably easier . 
It was wicked , and it is still more wicked to continue the work and bring still other unfortunate creatures into the world to be the butt and plaything of cruel fate . 
He intends to do that ? asked the youth . 
Unless he is stopped , replied von Horn . 
He must be stopped , cried the other . 
Even if it were necessary to kill him . 
Von Horn was quite satisfied with the turn events had taken . 
He shrugged his shoulders and turned on his heel toward the outer campong . 
If he had wronged me as he has you , and those others , with a gesture toward the court of mystery , I should not be long in reaching a decision . 
And with that he passed out , leaving the door unlatched . 
Von Horn went straight to the south campong and sought out Bududreen . 
Motioning the Malay to follow him they walked across the clearing and entered the jungle out of sight and hearing of the camp . 
Sing , hanging clothes in the north end of the clearing saw them depart , and wondered a little . 
Bududreen , said von Horn , when the two had reached a safe distance from the enclosures , there is no need of mincing matters something must be done at once . 
You have seen the creatures in the campong next to yours ? I have seen , replied Bududreen , with a shudder . 
Professor Maxon intends to wed one of these to his daughter , von Horn continued . 
We intend merely to leave Professor Maxon here with the creatures he has created . 
Bududreen could scarce repress a smile it was indeed too splendid to be true . 
It will be perilous work , Captain , he answered . 
We should all be hanged were we caught . 
There will be no danger of that , Bududreen , for there will be no one to divulge our secret . 
There will be the Professor Maxon , urged the Malay . 
Some day he will escape from the island , and then we shall all hang . 
He will never escape , replied von Horn , his own creatures will see to that . 
They are already commencing to realize the horrible crime he has committed against them , and when once they are fully aroused there will be no safety for any of us . 
If you wish to leave the island at all it will be best for you to accept my proposal and leave while your head yet remains upon your shoulders . 
The man is mad quite mad Bududreen , and we cannot longer jeopardize our own throats merely to humor his crazy and criminal whims . 
When do you wish to sail ? asked the Malay . 
Tonight , replied von Horn , and together they matured their plans . 
An hour later the second mate with six men disappeared into the jungle toward the harbor . 
They , with the three on watch , were to get the vessel in readiness for immediate departure . 
After the evening meal von Horn sat on the verandah with Virginia Maxon until the Professor came from the workshop to retire for the night . 
As he passed them he stopped for a word with von Horn , taking him aside out of the girl's hearing . 
Have you noticed anything peculiar in the actions of Thirteen ? asked the older man . 
He was sullen and morose this evening , and at times there was a strange , wild light in his eyes as he looked at me . 
Can it be possible that , after all , his brain is defective ? It would be terrible . 
My work would have gone for naught , for I can see no way in which I can improve upon him . 
I may take him for a long walk . 
It is possible that the hard study and close confinement to that little building have been too severe upon his brain and nerves . 
A long walk each evening may bring him around all right . 
Splendid splendid , replied the professor . 
You may be quite right . 
As Professor Maxon entered the house von Horn returned to Virginia and suggested that they take a short walk outside the campong before retiring . 
The girl readily acquiesced to the plan , and a moment later found them strolling through the clearing toward the southern end of the camp . 
In the dark shadows of the gateway leading to the men's enclosure a figure crouched . 
The girl did not see it , but as they came opposite it von Horn coughed twice , and then the two passed on toward the edge of the jungle . 
At the same moment von Horn was leading Virginia Maxon farther and farther from the north campong where resistance , if there was to be any , would be most likely to occur . 
At his superior's cough Bududreen had signalled silently to the men within the enclosure , and a moment later six savage lascars crept stealthily to his side . 
The moment that von Horn and the girl were entirely concealed by the darkness , the seven moved cautiously along the shadow of the palisade toward the north campong . 
There was murder in the cowardly hearts of several of them , and stupidity and lust in the hearts of all . 
It was such a pack of scoundrels that Bududreen led toward the north campong to bear away the treasure . 
While these events were transpiring Number Thirteen was pacing restlessly back and forth the length of the workshop . 
Now that the other had gone and he was alone contemplation of the hideous wrong that had been done loosed again the flood gates of his pent rage . 
It was the knowledge , suggested by von Horn , that Virginia Maxon would look upon him in horror , as a grotesque and loathsome monstrosity . 
He had no standard and no experience whereby he might classify his sentiments toward this wonderful creature . 
All he knew was that his life would be complete could he be near her always see her and speak with her daily . 
He had thought of her almost constantly since those short , delicious moments that he had held her in his arms . 
Again and again he experienced in retrospection the exquisite thrill that had run through every fiber of his being at the sight of her averted eyes and flushed face . 
And the more he let his mind dwell upon the wonderful happiness that was denied him because of his origin , the greater became his wrath against his creator . 
It was now quite dark without . 
Number Thirteen approached this door . 
He laid his hand upon the knob . 
Going to the door he pushed it open and entered the apartment . 
He did not wish to disturb the others whom he believed to be sleeping somewhere within the structure a low , rambling bungalow of eight rooms . 
Cautiously he approached one of the four doors which opened from the living room . 
Gently he turned the knob and pushed the door ajar . 
With clenched fists , and tight set jaws the great , soulless giant moved across the dark chamber with the stealthy noiselessness of a tiger . 
Feeling before him with hands and feet he made the circuit of the room before he reached the bed . 
Scarce breathing he leaned over and groped across the covers with his fingers in search of his prey the bed was empty . 
With the discovery came a sudden nervous reaction that sent him into a cold sweat . 
Weakly , he seated himself upon the edge of the bed . 
Suddenly he recalled the fact that the man whose life he sought was the father of the beautiful creature he adored . 
Perhaps she loved him and would be unhappy were he taken away from her . 
He had by no means given up the idea of killing Professor Maxon , but now there were doubts and obstacles which had not been manifest before . 
In the workshop Bududreen and his men had easily located the chest . 
To Muda Saffir's evil mind there was but one explanation . 
Bududreen had discovered a rich treasure , and having stolen that had dispatched two of his men to bring him the girl also . 
Rajah Muda Saffir was furious . 
Then with the balance of his horde he crept alone in the darkness until opposite Bududreen and the watchers about the chest . 
Just as the two who crept toward the bungalow reached it , Muda Saffir gave the word for the attack upon the Malays and lascars who guarded the treasure . 
With savage yells they dashed upon the unsuspecting men . 
Parangs and spears glistened in the moonlight . 
There was a brief and bloody encounter , for the cowardly Bududreen and his equally cowardly crew had had no alternative but to fight , so suddenly had the foe fallen upon them . 
In a moment the savage Borneo head hunters had added five grisly trophies to their record . 
Bududreen and another were racing madly toward the jungle beyond the campong . 
As Number Thirteen arose to continue his search for Professor Maxon his quick ear caught the shuffling of bare feet upon the verandah . 
As he paused to listen there broke suddenly upon the still night the hideous war cries of the Dyaks , and the screams and shrieks of their frightened victims in the campong without . 
In an instant the little room was filled with howling , fighting men . 
Sing and Professor Maxon stood in the doorway to the professor's room gazing upon the scene of carnage in surprise and consternation . 
The scientist was unarmed , but Sing held a long , wicked looking Colt in readiness for any contingency . 
In the eyes of the latter shone a strange gleam it was the wild light of insanity that the sudden nervous shock of the attack had brought to a premature culmination . 
Now the four remaining Dyaks were advancing upon the two men . 
Sing levelled his revolver and fired at the foremost , and at the same instant Professor Maxon , with a shrill , maniacal scream , launched himself full upon a second . 
Then Sing pulled the trigger again and again , but the cylinder would not revolve and the hammer fell futilely upon the empty cartridge . 
As two of the head hunters closed upon him the brave Chinaman clubbed his weapon and went down beneath them beating madly at the brown skulls . 
The fourth Dyak danced around the two with raised parang watching for an opening that he might deliver a silencing blow upon the white man's skull . 
Tearing him loose from his prey , he raised him far above his head and threw him heavily against the opposite wall , then he turned his attention toward Sing's assailants . 
As Sing came to his feet he found Professor Maxon lying in a pool of his own blood , a great gash in his forehead . 
He saw the white giant standing silently looking down upon the old man . 
Across the room the four stunned Dyaks were recovering consciousness . 
They swore that even then they had only returned because the girl was not in the house otherwise they should have brought her to their beloved master as he had directed . 
The white giant stood beside him watching his every move . 
He was trying to understand why sometimes men killed one another and again defended and nursed . 
He was curious as to the cause of his own sudden change in sentiment toward Professor Maxon . 
As the two worked over the stricken man their ears were suddenly assailed by a wild commotion from the direction of the workshop . 
There were sounds of battering upon wood , loud growls and roars , mingled with weird shrieks and screams and the strange , uncanny gibbering of brainless things . 
Sing looked quickly up at his companion . 
Whallee mallee ? he asked . 
The giant did not answer . 
An expression of pain crossed his features , and he shuddered but not from fear . 
THE BULL WHIP As von Horn and Virginia Maxon walked slowly beneath the dense shadows of the jungle he again renewed his suit . 
I cannot do it , Doctor von Horn , she had said . 
No matter how much danger I may be in here I cannot desert my father on this lonely isle with only savage lascars and the terrible monsters of his own creation surrounding him . 
Why , it would be little short of murder for us to do such a thing . 
I cannot see how you , his most trusted lieutenant , can even give an instant's consideration to the idea . 
Von Horn did not relish the insinuation in the accent which the girl put upon the last word . 
It is because I love you so , Virginia , he hastened to urge in extenuation of his suggested disloyalty . 
I cannot see you sacrificed to his horrible mania . 
You do not realize the imminence of your peril . 
Tomorrow Number Thirteen was to have come to live beneath the same roof with you . 
You will be mine then and safe from the awful fate that now lies back there in the camp awaiting you . 
We can take your father upon a long trip where rest and quiet can have an opportunity to restore his enfeebled mentality . 
Come , Virginia ! Come with me now . 
We can go directly to the Ithaca and safety . 
Say that you will come . 
The girl shook her head . 
I do not love you , I am afraid , Doctor von Horn , or I should certainly be moved by your appeal . 
My place is here , near him . 
In the darkness the girl did not see the change that came over the man's face , but his next words revealed his altered attitude with sufficient exactitude to thoroughly arouse her fears . 
Virginia , he said , I love you , and I intend to have you . 
Nothing on earth can prevent me . 
If you will not come away from the island with me voluntarily I consider it my duty to take you away by force . 
You would never do that , Doctor von Horn ! she exclaimed . 
Von Horn had gone too far . 
He cursed himself inwardly for a fool . 
Why the devil didn't that villain , Bududreen , come ! He should have been along to act his part half an hour before . 
No , Virginia , said the man , softly , after a moment's silence , I could not do that though my judgment tells me that I should do it . 
You shall remain here if you insist and I will be with you to serve and protect both you and your father . 
The words were fair , but the girl could not forget the ugly tone that had tinged his preceding statement . 
She felt that she would be glad when she found herself safely within the bungalow once more . 
Come , she said , it is late . 
Let us return to camp . 
Von Horn was about to reply when the war cries of Muda Saffir's Dyaks as they rushed out upon Bududreen and his companions came to them distinctly through the tropic night . 
What was that ? cried the girl in an alarmed tone . 
God knows , replied von Horn . 
Virginia Maxon turned resolutely toward the camp . 
I must go back there to my father , she said , and so must you . 
The doctor made straight for the camp , but Virginia , unused to jungle trailing even by day , veered sharply to the left . 
The sounds which had guided her at first soon died out , the brush became thicker , and presently she realized that she had no conception of the direction of the camp . 
Coming to a spot where the trees were less dense , and a little moonlight filtered to the ground , she paused to rest and attempt to regain her bearings . 
As she stood listening for some sound which might indicate the whereabouts of the camp , she detected the noise of a body approaching through the underbrush . 
Whether man or beast she could but conjecture and so she stood with every nerve taut waiting the thing that floundered heavily toward her . 
Nearer and nearer came the sound , and the girl stood poised ready to fly when the dark face of Bududreen suddenly emerged into the moonlight beside her . 
With an hysterical cry of relief the girl greeted him . 
Oh , Bududreen , she exclaimed , what has happened at camp ? Where is my father ? Is he safe ? Tell me . 
The Malay could scarce believe the good fortune which had befallen him so quickly following the sore affliction of losing the treasure . 
His evil mind worked quickly , so that he grasped the full possibilities that were his before the girl had finished her questioning . 
The camp was attacked by Dyaks , Miss Maxon , he replied . 
Many of our men were killed , but your father escaped and has gone to the ship . 
I have been searching for you and Doctor von Horn . 
Where is he ? He was with me but a moment ago . 
When we heard the cries at camp I hastened on to discover what calamity had befallen us we became separated . 
Come , we will hasten on to the harbor . 
Your father will be worried if we are long delayed , and he is anxious to make sail and escape before the Dyaks discover the location of the Ithaca . 
However , she explained that by her belief that his mind was unbalanced through constant application to his weird obsession . 
Without demur , then , she turned and accompanied the rascally Malay toward the harbor . 
At the bank of the little stream which led down to the Ithaca's berth the man lifted her to his shoulder and thus bore her the balance of the way to the beach . 
Here two of his men were awaiting him in one of the ship's boats , and without words they embarked and pulled for the vessel . 
Once on board Virginia started immediately for her father's cabin . 
As she crossed the deck she noticed that the ship was ready to sail , and even as she descended the companionway she heard the rattle of the anchor chain about the capstan . 
She wondered if von Horn could be on board too . 
To her chagrin she found her father's cabin empty , and a moment's hurried investigation disclosed the fact that von Horn's was unoccupied as well . 
Here she locked and barricaded the door as best she could , and throwing herself upon the berth awaited in dry eyed terror the next blow that fate held in store for her . 
Shortly after von Horn became separated from Virginia he collided with the fleeing lascar who had escaped the parangs of Muda Saffir's head hunters at the same time as had Bududreen . 
His only motive for returning lay in his desire to prevent Virginia Maxon falling into the hands of the Dyaks , or , failing that , rescuing her from their clutches . 
As the two approached the campong quiet seemed to have again fallen about the scene of the recent alarm . 
Muda Saffir had passed on toward the cove with the heavy chest , and the scrimmage in the bungalow was over . 
The dim light in the living room drew him to one of the windows which overlooked the verandah . 
A glance within howed him Sing and Number Thirteen bending over the body of Professor Maxon . 
He noted the handsome face and perfect figure of the young giant . 
He saw the bodies of the dead lascars and Dyaks . 
Then he saw Sing and the young man lift Professor Maxon tenderly in their arms and bear him to his own room . 
A sudden wave of jealous rage swept through the man's vicious brain . 
He saw that the soulless thing within was endowed with a kindlier and more noble nature than he himself possessed . 
Von Horn was quite sure now that Virginia Maxon was not within the campong . 
Either she had become confused and lost in the jungle after she left him , or had fallen into the hands of the wild horde that had attacked the camp . 
Convinced of this , there was no obstacle to thwart the sudden plan which entered his malign brain . 
As he turned away from the bungalow his eye fell upon the trembling lascar who had accompanied him to the edge of the verandah . 
He must be rid of the fellow in some way no eye must see him perpetrate the deed he had in mind . 
A solution quickly occurred to him . 
Hasten to the harbor , he said to the man in a low voice , and tell those on board the ship that I shall join them presently . 
Have all in readiness to sail . 
I wish to fetch some of my belongings all within the bungalow are dead . 
No command could have better suited the sailor . 
Without a word he turned and fled toward the jungle . 
Von Horn walked quickly to the workshop . 
Through the dark interior he strode straight to the opposite door which let upon the court of mystery . 
On a nail driven into the door frame hung a heavy bull whip . 
The doctor took it down as he raised the strong bar which held the door . 
Then he stepped through into the moonlit inner campong the bull whip in his right hand , a revolver in his left . 
A half dozen misshapen monsters roved restlessly about the hard packed earth of the pen . 
The noise of the battle in the adjoining enclosure had aroused them from slumber and awakened in their half formed brains vague questionings and fears . 
Von Horn passed quickly to the low shed in which the remainder of the eleven were sleeping . 
With vicious cuts from the stinging lash he lay about him upon the sleeping things . 
Roaring and shrieking in pain and anger the creatures stumbled to their feet and lumbered awkwardly into the open . 
As cattle are driven , von Horn drove the miserable creatures toward the door of the workshop . 
Toward this they scurried as von Horn turned back into the court of mystery for the others . 
Three more herculean efforts he made before he beat the last of the creatures through the outer doorway of the workshop into the north campong . 
Among the age old arts of the celestials none is more strangely inspiring than that of medicine . 
Sing was no exception in this respect . 
In various queerly shaped , bamboo covered jars he maintained a supply of tonics , balms and lotions . 
Here he rummaged about in the dark until he had found the two phials he sought . 
He had completed his search and was about to return to the bungalow when the first of the monsters emerged into the north campong from the workshop . 
At the door of his shack Sing Lee drew back to watch , for he knew that behind them some one was driving these horribly grotesque creatures from their prison . 
One by one they came lumbering into the moonlight until Sing had counted eleven , and then , after them , came a white man , bull whip and revolver in hand . 
The equatorial moon shone full upon him there could be no mistake . 
The Chinaman saw him turn and lock the workshop door saw him cross the campong to the outer gate saw him pass through toward the jungle , closing the gate . 
It was the first great storm of the breaking up of the monsoon , and under the cover of its darkness Sing Lee scurried through the monster filled campong to the bungalow . 
Within he found the young man bathing Professor Maxon's head as he had directed him to do . 
All gettee out , he said , jerking his thumb in the direction of the court of mystery . 
What do ? Number Thirteen had seen von Horn's extra bull whip hanging upon a peg in the living room . 
For answer he stepped into that room and took the weapon down . 
Then he returned to the professor's side . 
Outside the frightened monsters groped through the blinding rain and darkness in search of shelter . 
Each vivid lightning flash , and bellowing of booming thunder brought responsive cries of rage and terror from their hideous lips . 
It was Number Twelve who first spied the dim light showing through the bungalow's living room window . 
With a low guttural to his companions he started toward the building . 
Up the low steps to the verandah they crept . 
Number Twelve peered through the window . 
He saw no one within , but there was warmth and dryness . 
His little knowledge and lesser reasoning faculties suggested no thought of a doorway . 
With a blow he shattered the glass of the window . 
Then he forced his body through the narrow aperture . 
Others , like Number Twelve , were of a higher order of intelligence . 
They spoke English , and , after a fashion , reasoned in a crude sort of way . 
Von Horn , too , had let them know the identity of their creator , and thus implanted in their malformed brains the insidious poison of revenge . 
Envy and jealousy were there as well , and hatred of all beings other than themselves . 
It was such that Number Thirteen faced as he emerged from the professor's apartment . 
What do you want here ? he said , addressing Number Twelve , who stood a little in advance of the others . 
We have come for Maxon , growled the creature . 
We have been penned up long enough . 
We want to be out here . 
We have come to kill Maxon and you and all who have made us what we are . 
Why do you wish to kill me ? asked the young man . 
I am one of you . 
I was made in the same way that you were made . 
Number Twelve opened his mismated eyes in astonishment . 
Then you have already killed Maxon ? he asked . 
No. He was wounded by a savage enemy . 
I have been helping to make him well again . 
He has wronged me as much as he has you . 
If I do not wish to kill him , why should you ? He did not mean to wrong us . 
He thought that he was doing right . 
He is in trouble now and we should stay and protect him . 
He lies , suddenly shouted another of the horde . 
He is not one of us . 
Kill him ! Kill him ! Kill Maxon , too , and then we shall be as other men , for it is these men who keep us as we are . 
The fellow started forward toward Number Thirteen as he spoke , and moved by the impulse of imitation the others came on with him . 
I have spoken fairly to you , said Number Thirteen in a low voice . 
If you cannot understand fairness here is something you can understand . 
In the doorway behind him Sing Lee had been standing waiting the outcome of the encounter and ready to lend a hand were it required . 
As the two men turned back into the professor's room they saw that the wounded man's eyes were open and upon them . 
At sight of Number Thirteen a questioning look came into his eyes . 
What has happened ? he asked feebly of Sing . 
Where is my daughter ? Where is Dr . 
von Horn ? What is this creature doing out of his pen ? The blow of the parang upon the professor's skull had shocked his overwrought mind back into the path of sanity . 
The first thought that sprang to his mind as he saw Number Thirteen before him was of his mad intention to give his daughter to such a monstrous thing . 
With the recollection came a sudden loathing and hatred of this and the other creatures of his unholy experimentations . 
Presently he realized that his questions had not been answered . 
Where are Virginia and Dr . 
von Horn ? All gonee . 
My God ! groaned the stricken man and then his eyes again falling upon the silent giant in the doorway , Out of my sight , he shrieked . 
Out of my sight ! Never let me see you again and to think that I would have given my only daughter to a soulless thing like you . 
Away ! Before I go mad and slay you . 
Slowly the color mounted to the neck and face of the giant then suddenly it receded , leaving him as ashen as death . 
His great hand gripped the stock of the bull whip . 
A single blow was all that would have been needed to silence Professor Maxon forever . 
There was murder in the wounded heart . 
Without a word Number Thirteen turned upon his heel and passed out into the storm . 
Below deck the terrified girl clung desperately to a stanchion as the stricken ship lunged sickeningly before the hurricane . 
For half an hour the awful suspense endured , and then with a terrific crash the vessel struck , shivering and trembling from stem to stern . 
Virginia Maxon sank to her knees in prayer , for this she thought must surely be the end . 
After the last , long dive the Ithaca righted herself laboriously , wallowing drunkenly , but apparently upon an even keel in less turbulent waters . 
Now she felt but a gentle roll , though the wild turmoil of the storm still came to her ears through the heavy planking of the Ithaca's hull . 
The wind howled about her , the torrential rain beat loudly upon her , but except for a slight rocking the ship lay quiet . 
Hours passed with no other sounds than those of the rapidly waning tempest . 
The girl heard no signs of life upon the ship . 
Her curiosity became more and more keenly aroused . 
As she worked she failed to hear the scraping of naked bodies clambering over the ship's side , or the padding of unshod feet upon the deck above her . 
She was about to give up her work at the hatch when the heavy wooden cover suddenly commenced to move above her as though actuated by some supernatural power . 
Then the cover slid suddenly back and Virginia Maxon found herself looking into a savage and terrible face . 
The dark skin was creased in fierce wrinkles about the eyes and mouth . 
Gleaming tiger cat's teeth curved upward from holes pierced to receive them in the upper half of each ear . 
The slit ear lobes supported heavy rings whose weight had stretched the skin until the long loop rested upon the brown shoulders . 
The filed and blackened teeth behind the loose lips added the last touch of hideousness to this terrible countenance . 
A score of equally ferocious faces peered down from behind the foremost . 
With a little scream Virginia Maxon sprang back to the lower deck and ran toward her stateroom . 
Behind her she heard the commotion of many men descending the companionway . 
As Number Thirteen came into the campong after quitting the bungalow his heart was a chaos of conflicting emotions . 
His little world had been wiped out . 
His creator the man whom he thought his only friend and benefactor had suddenly turned against him . 
The beautiful creature he worshipped was either lost or dead Sing had said so . 
He was nothing but a miserable THING . 
With no plans and no hopes he walked aimlessly through the blinding rain , oblivious of it and of the vivid lightning and deafening thunder . 
The palisade at length brought him to a sudden stop . 
He made me without a soul , he repeated over and over again to himself , but I have found a soul she shall be my soul . 
Von Horn could not explain to me what a soul is . 
I am wiser than all the rest , for I have learned what a soul is . 
Let those who will say that I have no soul , for I am satisfied with the soul I have found . 
It would never permit me to inflict on others the terrible wrong that Professor Maxon has inflicted on me yet he never doubts his own possession of a soul . 
It would not allow me to revel in the coarse brutalities of von Horn and I am sure that von Horn thinks he has a soul . 
And if the savage men who came tonight to kill have souls , then I am glad that my soul is after my own choosing I would not care for one like theirs . 
The sudden equatorial dawn found the man still musing . 
The storm had ceased and as the daylight brought the surroundings to view Number Thirteen became aware that he was not alone in the campong . 
All about him lay the eleven terrible men whom he had driven from the bungalow the previous night . 
The sight of them brought a realization of new responsibilities . 
To leave them here in the campong would mean the immediate death of Professor Maxon and the Chinaman . 
To turn them into the jungle might mean a similar fate for Virginia Maxon were she wandering about in search of the encampment Number Thirteen could not believe that she was dead . 
As he looked at the sleeping monsters near him he determined that the only solution of his problem was to take them all with him . 
Number Twelve lay closest to him , and stepping to his side he nudged him with the butt of the bull whip he still carried . 
The creature opened his dull eyes . 
Get up , said Number Thirteen . 
Number Twelve rose , looking askance at the bull whip . 
We are not wanted here , said Number Thirteen . 
I am going away and you are all going with me . 
We shall find a place where we may live in peace and freedom . 
Are you not tired of always being penned up ? Yes , replied Number Twelve , still looking at the whip . 
You need not fear the whip , said the young man . 
I shall not use it on those who make no trouble . 
Wake the others and tell them what I have said . 
All must come with me those who refuse shall feel the whip . 
Number Twelve did as he was bid . 
The creatures mumbled among themselves for a few minutes . 
Finally Number Thirteen cracked his long whip to attract their attention . 
Nine of them shuffled after him as he turned toward the outer gate only Number Ten and Number Three held back . 
The young man walked quickly to where they stood eyeing him sullenly . 
The others halted to watch ready to spring upon their new master should the tide of the impending battle turn against him . 
The two mutineers backed away snarling , their hideous features distorted in rage . 
Come ! repeated Number Thirteen . 
We will stay here , growled Number Ten . 
We have not yet finished with Maxon . 
A loop in the butt of the bull whip was about the young man's wrist . 
Dropping the weapon from his hand it still dangled by the loop . 
The brute met the charge with lowered head and outstretched hands , and in another second they were locked in a clinch , tearing at one another like two great gorillas . 
For a moment Number Three stood watching the battle , and then he too sprang in to aid his fellow mutineer . 
Number Three threw his enormous weight into the conflict with the frenzy of a mad bull . 
Again and again he got a hold upon the young giant's throat only to be shaken loose by the mighty muscles . 
The excitement of the conflict was telling upon the malformed minds of the spectators . 
Presently one who was almost brainless , acting upon the impulse of suggestion , leaped in among the fighters , striking and biting at Number Thirteen . 
It was all that was needed another second found the whole monstrous crew upon the single man . 
His mighty strength availed him but little in the unequal conflict eleven to one were too great odds even for those powerful thews . 
His great advantage lay in his superior intelligence , but even this seemed futile in the face of the enormous weight of numbers that opposed him . 
Time and again he had almost shaken himself free only to fall once more dragged down by hairy arms about his legs . 
The result was as his higher intelligence had foreseen the creatures scattered to escape the fury of the lash and a moment later he had them at his mercy . 
About the campong lay four who had felt the full force of his heavy fist , while not one but bore some mark of the battle . 
Not a moment did he give them to recuperate after he had scattered them before he rounded them up once more near the outer gate but now they were docile and submissive . 
Once well within the jungle they halted to eat of the more familiar fruit which had always formed the greater bulk of their sustenance . 
From other vantage points at the jungle's border two other watchers looked out upon the scene . 
One was the lascar whom von Horn had sent down to the Ithaca the night before but who had reached the harbor after she sailed . 
The other was von Horn himself . 
And both were looking out upon the dismantled wreck of the Ithaca where it lay in the sand near the harbor's southern edge . 
Neither ventured forth from his place of concealment , for beyond the Ithaca ten prahus were pulling gracefully into the quiet waters of the basin . 
Number Thirteen watched the wild head hunters with keenest interest as they clambered aboard the vessel . 
With von Horn he saw the evident amazement which followed the opening of the hatch , though neither guessed its cause . 
He saw the haste with which a half dozen of the warriors leaped down the companionway and heard their savage shouts as they pursued their quarry within the bowels of the ship . 
A few minutes later they emerged dragging a woman with them . 
Von Horn and Number Thirteen recognized the girl simultaneously , but the doctor , though he ground his teeth in futile rage , knew that he was helpless to avert the tragedy . 
Number Thirteen neither knew nor cared . 
Come ! he called to his grotesque horde . 
Then he dashed from the shelter of the jungle , across the beach and into the water , his fearful pack at his heels . 
They could not swim , but all were large and strong , so that they were able to push their way rapidly through the water to the very side of the ship . 
Number Thirteen was the first to pull himself over the vessel's side , and as he did so he saw some half dozen Dyaks preparing to quit her upon the opposite side . 
They were the last of the boarding party the girl was nowhere in sight . 
Without waiting for his men the young giant sprang across the deck . 
His one thought was to find Virginia Maxon . 
Up went the great bull whip , and without abating his speed a particle the man leaped into the midst of the wicked blades that menaced him . 
Right and left with the quickness of thought the heavy lash fell upon heads , shoulders and sword arms . 
A single blow felled the foremost head hunter , breaking his shoulder and biting into the flesh and bone as a heavy sword bites . 
Virginia Maxon recognized her champion instantly as he who had fought for her and saved her once before , from the hideous creature of her father's experiments . 
Muda Saffir saw that the battle was going against his men , and it filled him with anger . 
Turning to one of his headmen he ordered two more boatloads of warriors to the Ithaca's deck . 
Number Thirteen could have beaten back many of the reinforcing party before they reached the deck , but he did not care to do so . 
But they never came within reach of his ready lash . 
Muda Saffir arose in his prahu cursing and reviling the frightened Dyaks . 
At the sight his own dark countenance went ashen , and with trembling lips he ordered his oarsmen to pull for the open sea . 
The girl , too , saw the frightful creatures that surrounded the man upon the deck . 
Two prahus lay directly beneath them , and into these the head hunters were scrambling . 
It was already half filled with Dyaks , some of whom were hastily manning the oars . 
Others of the head hunters were scrambling over the gunwale . 
In an instant pandemonium reigned in the little vessel . 
Savage warriors sprang toward the tall figure towering above them . 
The bull whip hissed and cracked , and then into the midst of it all came a horrid avalanche of fearful and grotesque monsters the young giant's crew had followed at his command . 
The battle in the prahu was short and fierce . 
The other prahu had not waited to assist its companion , but before it was entirely filled had gotten under way and was now rapidly overhauling the balance of the fleet . 
Von Horn had been an excited witness to all that had occurred upon the tranquil bosom of the little harbor . 
The thought of the girl's danger and suffering were of but secondary consideration to him , for the man was incapable of either deep love or true chivalry . 
Quite the contrary were the emotions which urged on the soulless creature who now found himself in undisputed possession of a Dyak war prahu . 
His only thought was of the girl being rapidly borne away across the glimmering waters of the strait . 
He knew not to what dangers she was exposed , or what fate threatened her . 
All he knew was that she had been taken by force against her will . 
He had seen the look of terror in her eyes , and the dawning hope die out as the boat that carried her had turned rapidly away from the Ithaca . 
His one thought now was to rescue her from her abductors and return her to her father . 
Of his own reward or profit he entertained no single thought it was enough if he could fight for her . 
That would be reward sufficient . 
For an hour he worked with the brainless things that constituted his party . 
They could not seem to learn what was required of them . 
The paddles were continually fouling one another , or being merely dipped into the water and withdrawn without the faintest semblance of a stroke made . 
Smaller and smaller grew the retreating prahu as , straight as an arrow , she sped toward the dim outline of verdure clad Borneo . 
In the water below him floated the Ithaca's masts , their grisly burdens still lashed to their wave swept sides . 
The tide was rising now , and presently the Ithaca began to float . 
No sooner was it apparent that she was free than the Dyaks sprang into the water and swam to her side . 
Like monkeys they scrambled aboard , swarming below deck in search , thought von Horn , of pillage . 
He prayed that they would not discover the chest . 
Presently a half dozen of them leaped overboard and swam to the mass of tangled spars and rigging which littered the beach . 
Before dark the vessel moved slowly out of the harbor , setting a course across the strait in the direction that the war prahus had taken . 
Von Horn also came forth , much to the sailor's surprise , and in silence the two stood watching the disappearing ship . 
At length they turned and made their way up the stream toward camp there was no longer aught to fear there . 
Von Horn wondered if the creatures he had loosed upon Professor Maxon had done their work before they left , or if they had all turned to mush as had Number Thirteen . 
Von Horn ! exclaimed the professor . 
You , then , are not dead but where is Virginia ? Tell me that she is safe . 
She has been carried away was the startling answer . 
Your creatures , under the thing you wished to marry her to , have taken her to Borneo with a band of Malay and Dyak pirates . 
I was alone and could do nothing to prevent them . 
God ! moaned the old man . 
Why did I not kill the thing when it stood within my power to do so . 
Only last night he was here beside me , and now it is too late . 
I warned you , said von Horn , coldly . 
I was mad , retorted the professor . 
Could you not see that I was mad ? Oh , why did you not stop me ? You were sane enough . 
You at least might have forced me to abandon the insane obsession which has overpowered my reason for all these terrible months . 
I am sane now , but it is too late too late . 
I am sorry now that I did not act , but you can readily see the position in which I was placed . 
Can nothing be done to get her back ? cried the father . 
There must be some way to save her . 
The Ithaca is gone , too , replied the doctor . 
There is only a small boat that I hid in the jungle for some such emergency . 
You will not forget your promise should we succeed ? No , doctor , replied the old man . 
I swear that you shall have Virginia as your wife , and all my property shall be made over to you if she is rescued . 
Sing Lee had been a silent listener to this strange conversation . 
An odd look came into his slant eyes as he heard von Horn exact a confirmation from the professor , but what passed in his shrewd mind only he could say . 
It was too late to attempt to make a start that day for Borneo , as darkness had already fallen . 
Professor Maxon and von Horn walked over to the workshop and the inner campong to ascertain what damage had been done there . 
On their return Sing was setting the table on the verandah for the evening meal . 
The two men were talking , and without making his presence noticeable the Chinaman hovered about ever within ear shot . 
I cannot make it out , von Horn , Professor Maxon was saying . 
Not a board broken , and the doors both apparently opened intentionally by someone familiar with locks and bolts . 
Who could have done it ? You forget Number Thirteen , suggested the doctor . 
But the chest ! expostulated the other . 
What in the world would he want of that enormous and heavy chest ? He might have thought that it contained treasure , hazarded von Horn , in an innocent tone of voice . 
Bosh , my dear man , replied Professor Maxon . 
He knew nothing of treasures , or money , or the need or value of either . 
And I tell you Professor Maxon that it could have been none other than Number Thirteen , insisted von Horn . 
Did I not myself see him leading his eleven monsters as easily as a captain commands his company ? The fellow is brighter than we have imagined . 
He has learned much from us both , he has reasoned , and he has shrewdly guessed many things that he could not have known through experience . 
But his object ? asked the professor . 
That is simple , returned von Horn . 
You have held out hopes to him that soon he should come to live under your roof with Virginia . 
The creature has been madly infatuated with her ever since the day he took her from Number One , and you have encouraged his infatuation until yesterday . 
Then you regained your sanity and put him in his rightful place . 
Why it is all perfectly simple and logical , Professor Maxon do you not see it now ? You may be right , doctor , answered the old man . 
But it is idle to conjecture . 
Tomorrow we can be up and doing , so let us get what sleep we can tonight . 
We shall need all our energies if we are to save my poor , dear girl , from the clutches of that horrid , soulless thing . 
At the very moment that he spoke the object of his contumely was entering the dark mouth of a broad river that flowed from out of the heart of savage Borneo . 
In the prahu with him his eleven hideous companions now bent to their paddles with slightly increased efficiency . 
Before them the leader saw a fire blazing upon a tiny island in the center of the stream . 
Toward this they turned their silent way . 
Grimly the war prahu with its frightful freight nosed closer to the bank . 
The prahus were drawn up upon the bank and the warriors were preparing to eat . 
Just as the young giants' prahu came within the circle of firelight a swarthy Malay approached the fire , dragging a white girl roughly by the arm . 
No more was needed to convince Number Thirteen of the identity of the party . 
With a low command to his fellows he urged them to redoubled speed . 
At the same instant a Dyak warrior caught sight of the approaching boat as it sped into the full glare of the light . 
At sight of the occupants the head hunters scattered for their own prahus . 
The frightful aspect of the enemy turned their savage hearts to water , leaving no fight in their ordinarily warlike souls . 
Among these was the Malay who guarded the girl , but he had not been quick enough to prevent Virginia Maxon recognizing the stalwart figure standing in the bow of the oncoming craft . 
As he dragged her away toward the prahu of Muda Saffir she cried out to the strange white man who seemed her self appointed protector . 
Help ! Help ! she called . 
This way ! Across the island ! And then the brown hand of her jailer closed over her mouth . 
The old rajah succeeded in gathering some fifty warriors about him from the crews of the two boats which lay near his . 
His own men he hastened to their posts in his prahu that they might be ready to pull swiftly away the moment that he and the captive were aboard . 
The Dyak warriors presented an awe inspiring spectacle in the fitful light of the nearby camp fire . 
At the head of his hideous , misshapen pack sprang the stalwart young giant straight into the heart of the flashing parangs of the howling savages . 
To right and left fell the mighty bull whip cutting down men with all the force and dispatch of a steel saber . 
Number Ten wrested a parang from an adversary , and acting upon his example the other creatures were not long in arming themselves in a similar manner . 
Cutting and jabbing they hewed their way through the solid ranks of the enemy , until Muda Saffir , seeing that defeat was inevitable turned and fled toward his prahu . 
Four of his creatures lay dead as the last of the Dyaks turned to escape from the mad white man who faced naked steel with only a rawhide whip . 
In panic the head hunters made a wild dash for the two remaining prahus , for Muda Saffir had succeeded in getting away from the island in safety . 
Number Thirteen reached the water's edge but a moment after the prow of the rajah's craft had cleared the shore and was swinging up stream under the vigorous strokes of its fifty oarsmen . 
Leaping among the combatants he urged his fellows aboard the prahu which was already half filled with Dyaks . 
Then he shoved the boat out into the river , jumping aboard himself as its prow cleared the gravelly beach . 
For several minutes that long , hollowed log was a veritable floating hell of savage , screaming men locked in deadly battle . 
There remained but a handful of brown warriors in one end of the boat when the advantage of utilizing their knowledge of the river and of navigation occurred to Number Thirteen . 
Calling to his men he commanded them to cease killing , making prisoners of those who remained instead . 
So it was not difficult to secure from them the promise of assistance in return for their lives . 
Both the name and the idea appealed to Number Thirteen and from that time he adopted Bulan as his rightful cognomen . 
The loss of time resulting from the fight in the prahu and the ensuing peace parley permitted Muda Saffir to put considerable distance between himself and his pursuers . 
But this was precisely what had happened , and the second boat , seeing the direction taken by the enemy , had turned down stream the more surely to escape them . 
Barunda had discovered that it was the girl alone this white man wanted . 
Evidently he either knew nothing of the treasure chest lying in the bottom of Muda Saffir's boat , or , knowing , was indifferent . 
Beneath the paddles of the natives and the five remaining members of his pack Bulan sped up the dark river after the single prahu with its priceless freight . 
Far ahead of them in the bottom of the great prahu crouched the girl they sought . 
Her thoughts were of the man she felt intuitively to possess the strength , endurance and ability to overcome every obstacle and reach her at last . 
Would he come in time ? Ah , that was the question . 
The mystery of the stranger appealed to her . 
Upon the evil lips were hot words of passion . 
Directly behind the Malay lay the heavy chest of Professor Maxon . 
As the man stepped backward to recover his equilibrium both feet struck the obstacle . 
Then he turned and swam rapidly toward the shore . 
He had had some experience of white men in the past and knew that dire were the punishments meted to those who wronged the white man's women . 
All through the remainder of the long night Ninaka pondered the question deeply . 
At last he turned to Virginia . 
Why does the big white man who leads the ourang outangs follow us ? he asked . 
Is it the chest he desires , or you ? It is certainly not the chest , replied the girl . 
He wishes to take me back to my father , that is all . 
If you will return me to him you may keep the chest , if that is what you wish . 
Ninaka looked at her quizzically for a moment . 
Evidently then she was of some value . 
Possibly should he retain her he could wring a handsome ransom from the white man . 
He would wait and see , it were always an easy matter to rid himself of her should circumstances require . 
The river was there , deep , dark and silent , and he could place the responsibility for her loss upon Muda Saffir . 
Shortly after day break Ninaka beached his prahu before the long house of a peaceful river tribe . 
The dwellers in the long house extended every courtesy to Ninaka and his crew . 
At the former's request Virginia was hidden away in a dark sleeping closet in one of the windowless living rooms which opened along the verandah for the full length of the house . 
Here a native girl brought her food and water , sitting , while she ate , in rapt contemplation of the white skin and golden hair of the strange female . 
What does it mean ? whispered the panglima to Barunda . 
These are now my friends , replied Barunda . 
Where is Muda Saffir ? Ninaka jerked his thumb toward the river . 
Some crocodile has feasted well , he said significantly . 
And the girl ? he continued . 
And the treasure ? Ninaka's eyes narrowed . 
They are safe , he answered . 
The white man wants the girl , remarked Barunda . 
He does not suspect that you are one of Muda Saffir's people . 
If he guessed that you knew the whereabouts of the girl he would torture the truth from you and then kill you . 
He does not care for the treasure . 
There is enough in that great chest for two , Ninaka . 
Together we can divide it otherwise neither of us will get any of it . 
What do you say , Ninaka ? The panglima scowled . 
Bulan had stood near during this conversation , unable , of course , to understand a single word of the native tongue . 
What does the man say ? he asked Barunda . 
Has he seen anything of the prahu bearing the girl ? Yes , replied the Dyak . 
He says that two hours ago such a war prahu passed on its way up river he saw the white girl plainly . 
Also he knows whither they are bound , and how , by crossing through the jungle on foot , you may intercept them at their next stop . 
Bulan , suspecting no treachery , was all anxiety to be off at once . 
Barunda suggested that in case of some possible emergency causing the quarry to return down the river it would be well to have a force remain at the long house to intercept them . 
He volunteered to undertake the command of this party . 
Ninaka , he said , would furnish guides to escort Bulan and his men through the jungle to the point at which they might expect to find Muda Saffir . 
Twisting and turning through the dense maze of underbrush and close growing , lofty trees the little party of eight plunged farther and farther into the bewildering labyrinth . 
For hours the tiresome march was continued , until at last the guides halted , apparently to consult each other as to the proper direction . 
We will go but a little way , said the spokesman , and then we shall return and lead you in the proper direction . 
Bulan saw no harm in this , and without a shade of suspicion sat down upon a fallen tree and watched his two guides disappear into the jungle in opposite directions . 
Virginia Maxon's strong hope of succor had been gradually waning as no sign of the rescue party appeared as the day wore on . 
For hours she strained her eyes over the stern of the craft that was bearing her deeper and deeper into the wild heart of fierce Borneo . 
On either shore they occasionally passed a native long house , and the girl could not help but wonder at the quiet and peace which reigned over these little settlements . 
Barunda and Ninaka urged their men on , with brief rests , all day , nor did they halt even after night had closed down upon the river . 
Long houses had become more and more infrequent until for some time now no sign of human habitation had been visible . 
The jungle undergrowth was scantier and the spaces between the boles of the forest trees more open . 
Virginia Maxon was almost frantic with despair as the utter helplessness of her position grew upon her . 
Each stroke of those slender paddles was driving her farther and farther from friends , or the possibility of rescue . 
Night had fallen , dark and impenetrable , and with it had come the haunting fears that creep in when the sun has deserted his guardian post . 
Barunda and Ninaka were whispering together in low gutturals , and to the girl's distorted and fear excited imagination it seemed possible that she alone must be the subject of their plotting . 
Virginia watched the two men near her furtively . 
They were deeply engrossed in their conversation . 
Neither was looking in her direction . 
The backs of the paddlers were all toward her . 
Stealthily she rose to a stooping position at the boat's side . 
For a moment she paused , and then , almost noiselessly , dove overboard and disappeared beneath the black waters . 
It was the slight rocking of the prahu that caused Barunda to look suddenly about to discover the reason for the disturbance . 
For a moment neither of the men apprehended the girl's absence . 
Ninaka was the first to do so , and it was he who called loudly to the paddlers to bring the boat to a stop . 
Then they dropped down the river with the current , and paddled about above the gorge for half an hour . 
After swimming a short distance beneath the surface the girl rose and looked about her . 
Up the river a few yards she caught the phosphorescent gleam of water upon the prahu's paddles as they brought her to a sudden stop in obedience to Ninaka's command . 
Then she saw the dark mass of the war craft drifting down toward her . 
Again she dove and with strong strokes headed for the shore . 
The next time that she rose she was terrified to see the prahu looming close behind her . 
The paddlers were propelling the boat slowly in her direction it was almost upon her now there was a shout from a man in the bow she had been seen . 
Like a flash she dove once more and , turning , struck out rapidly straight back beneath the oncoming boat . 
Again and again she could have sworn that she felt some huge , slimy body sweep beneath her in the mysterious waters of this unknown river . 
Already she could hear the increasing roar of the river as it rushed , wild and tumultuous , through the entrance to the narrow gorge below her . 
With redoubled energy she struck out in one last mighty effort to reach the shore . 
The tug of the current was strong upon her , like a giant hand reaching up out of the cruel river to bear her back to death . 
She felt her strength ebbing quickly her strokes now were feeble and futile . 
With the last flickering spark of vitality that remained in her poor , exhausted body Virginia Maxon clung to the frail support that a kind Providence had thrust into her hands . 
Inch by inch she worked herself upward toward the bank , and at last , weak and panting , sunk exhausted to the cool carpet of grass that grew to the water's edge . 
Almost immediately tired , Nature plunged her into a deep sleep . 
With a sudden start she opened her eyes wide to look up into the hideous face of a giant ourang outang . 
The party was well equipped with firearms and ammunition , and the bottom of the boat was packed full with provisions and cooking utensils . 
They had scarcely cleared the harbor when they sighted a ship far out across the strait . 
She sailed first this way and then that , losing one minute what she had gained the minute before . 
Von Horn was the first to recognize her . 
It is the Ithaca , he said , and her Dyak crew are having a devil of a time managing her she acts as though she were rudderless . 
Von Horn ran the small boat within hailing distance of the dismasted hulk whose side was now lined with waving , gesticulating natives . 
They were peaceful fishermen , they explained , whose prahus had been wrecked in the recent typhoon . 
They had barely escaped with their lives by clambering aboard this wreck which Allah had been so merciful as to place directly in their road . 
The Dyaks willingly agreed , and von Horn worked his small boat in close under the Ithaca's stern . 
Here he found that the rudder had been all but unshipped , probably as the vessel was lifted over the reef during the storm , but a single pintle remaining in its gudgeon . 
Inside the river's mouth an anchorage was found for the Ithaca near the very island upon which the fierce battle between Number Thirteen and Muda Saffir's forces had occurred . 
Here they found the dead bodies of the four monsters who had fallen in an attempt to rescue their creator's daughter , though little did any there imagine the real truth . 
Evidently they fell out about the possession of the captive , suggested von Horn . 
Let us hope that she did not fall into the clutches of Number Thirteen any fate would be better than that . 
God give that that has not befallen her , moaned Professor Maxon . 
Amen , agreed von Horn . 
Sing Lee said nothing , but in his heart he hoped that Virginia Maxon was not in the power of Rajah Muda Saffir . 
It was quickly decided to abandon the small boat and embark the entire party in the deserted war prahu . 
Far above them on the right bank Muda Saffir still squatted in his hiding place , for no friendly prahu or sampan had passed his way since dawn . 
His keen eyes roving constantly up and down the long stretch of river that was visible from his position finally sighted a war prahu coming toward him from down stream . 
He wondered how much they knew of his part in the raid upon their encampment . 
Scarcely had the Malay seated himself before von Horn began questioning him in the rajah's native tongue , not a word of which was intelligible to Professor Maxon . 
Sing , however , was as familiar with it as was von Horn . 
Where are the girl and the treasure ? he asked . 
What girl , Tuan Besar ? inquired the wily Malay innocently . 
And what treasure ? The white man speaks in riddles . 
Come , come , cried von Horn impatiently . 
Let us have no foolishness . 
You know perfectly well what I mean it will go far better with you if we work together as friends . 
I want the girl if she is unharmed and I will divide the treasure with you if you will help me to obtain them otherwise you shall have no part of either . 
What became of the white man who led the strange monsters ? asked von Horn . 
He killed many of my men , and the last I saw of him he was pushing up the river after the girl and the treasure , replied the Malay . 
Do you understand ? Muda Saffir nodded . 
Here was a man after his own heart , which loved intrigue and duplicity . 
Evidently he would be a good ally in wreaking vengeance upon the white giant who had caused all his discomfiture afterward there was always the kris if the other should become inconvenient . 
He imparted the information to von Horn and both men were delighted that thus their most formidable enemy had been disposed of . 
Again the party embarked , reinforced by the two Dyaks who were only too glad to renew their allegiance to Muda Saffir while he was backed by the guns of the white men . 
The doctor told him that Number Thirteen still had Virginia and was fleeing up the river in a swift prahu . 
What were the workings of that intricate celestial brain none can say . 
Far in the interior of the jungle Bulan and his five monsters stumbled on in an effort to find the river . 
Had they known it they were moving parallel with the stream , but a few miles from it . 
At times it wound in wide detours close to the path of the lost creatures , and again it circled far away from them . 
As they travelled they subsisted upon the fruits with which they had become familiar upon the island of their creation . 
They suffered greatly for lack of water , but finally stumbled upon a small stream at which they filled their parched stomachs . 
It was upon this strange and remarkable company that the sharp eyes of a score of river Dyaks peered through the foliage . 
Their victims came blundering on through the dense jungle to where the twenty sleek brown warriors lay in wait for them . 
Bulan was in the lead , and close behind him in single file lumbered his awkward crew . 
Suddenly there was a chorus of savage cries close beside him and simultaneously he found himself in the midst of twenty cutting , slashing parangs . 
Like lightning his bull whip flew into action , and to the astonished warriors it was as though a score of men were upon them in the person of this mighty white giant . 
At last five of them managed to escape into the jungle , but fifteen remained quietly upon the earth where they had fallen the victims of their own over confidence . 
That night they slept in the long house near the bank of the greater stream , while its rightful occupants made the best of it in the jungle behind . 
Cautiously he threaded his way through the matted vegetation in the direction of the sound . 
Bulan looked in wonderment upon the strange , man like creatures who eyed him threateningly from every hand . 
As he turned to retrace his steps he found his three companions gazing in wide eyed astonishment upon the strange new creatures which confronted them . 
What are you doing ? cried Bulan . 
They have not offered to harm us . 
They are like us , replied Number Three . 
They must be our own people . 
I am going with them . 
And I , said Number Ten . 
And I , echoed Number Twelve . 
They are not human beings , exclaimed Bulan . 
We cannot live with them . 
Neither are we human beings , retorted Number Twelve . 
I shall not go to live with savage beasts , nor shall you . 
Come with me as I tell you , or you shall again taste the bull whip . 
We shall do as we please , growled Number Ten , baring his fangs . 
You are not our master . 
We have followed you as long as we intend to . 
We are tired of forever walking , walking , walking through the bushes that tear our flesh and hurt us . 
Number Three nodded his grotesque and hideous head he was so covered with long black hair that he more nearly resembled an ourang outang than a human being . 
I think Number Ten is right , he said at last . 
And while you , Bulan , are beautiful , yet you are as much a soulless thing as we that much von Horn taught us well . 
So I believe that it would be better were we to keep forever from the sight of men . 
I do not want to live alone , cried Number Three . 
I want a mate , and I see a beautiful one yonder now . 
I am going after her , and with that he again started toward a female ourang outang but the lady bared her fangs and retreated before his advance . 
Even the beasts will have none of us , cried Number Ten angrily . 
Let us take them by force then , and he started after Number Three . 
Come back ! shouted Bulan , leaping after the two deserters . 
As he raised his voice there came an answering cry from a little distance ahead a cry for help , and it was in the agonized tones of a woman's voice . 
I am coming ! shouted Bulan , and without another glance at his mutinous crew he sprang through the line of menacing ourang outangs . 
Here they found a woman who had a strange tale to relate of a remarkable sight she had witnessed that very morning . 
As she looked she saw a huge MIAS PAPPAN cross the stream , bearing in his arms the dead , or unconscious form of a white skinned girl with golden hair . 
There was always the possibility that the natives had lied to him , and the more he questioned the Dyak woman the more firmly convinced he became that this was the fact . 
Professor Maxon was too ill to accompany the expedition , and von Horn set out alone with his Dyak allies . 
For a time after they departed Sing Lee fretted and fidgeted upon the verandah of the long house . 
He wholly distrusted von Horn , and from motives of his own finally decided to follow him . 
Presently a strange sight burst upon his astonished vision . 
Just in front of the trio was another bull bearing in his arms the unconscious form of Virginia Maxon who had fainted at the first response to her cry for help . 
As they came into a natural clearing in the jungle the fleeing bull glanced back to see his pursuer almost upon him , and with an angry roar turned to meet the charge . 
The doctor halted at the sight that met his eyes the prostrate form of the girl and the man battling with three huge bulls . 
Sing Lee was astounded at the perfidy of the act . 
But the wrinkled old Chinaman was made of different metal , and had started forward to assist Bulan when a heavy hand suddenly fell upon his shoulder . 
Looking around he saw the hideous face of Number Ten snarling into his . 
The bloodshot eyes of the monster were flaming with rage . 
But suddenly there was the sharp report of a firearm , and another of Professor Maxon's unhappy experiments sank back into the nothingness from which he had conjured it . 
Here he found Professor Maxon much improved the safe return of Virginia having acted as a tonic upon him . 
The girl and her father sat with von Horn upon the verandah of the long house as Sing clambered up the notched log that led to it from the ground . 
Oh , Sing , she cried , where have you been ? We were all so worried to think that no sooner was one of us rescued than another became lost . 
Sing takee walk , Linee , las all , said the grinning Chinaman . 
Very pretty modesty , thought Sing when he had heard the doctor's version of the affair . 
You were then in a faint , and when I attacked Bulan he dropped you to defend himself . 
How fortunate it is , my dear doctor , said Professor Maxon , that you were bright enough to think of trailing the miscreant into the jungle . 
But for that Virginia would still be in his clutches and by this time he would have been beyond all hope of capture . 
How can we ever repay you , dear friend ? That you were generous enough to arrange when we first embarked upon the search for your daughter , replied von Horn . 
The fact was that Professor Maxon regretted the promise he had made von Horn relative to his daughter . 
Yet he hoped that the girl would make it easy , by accepting voluntarily the man who had saved her life . 
Left alone , or as he thought alone , with the girl in the growing shadows of the evening , von Horn thought the moment propitious for renewing his suit . 
Virginia , he commenced , after an interval of silence , often before have I broached the subject nearest to my heart , yet never have you given me much encouragement . 
Just give me the right to cherish and protect you . 
At the same time I do not wish to be the means of making you unhappy , as surely would be the result were I to marry you without love . 
Let us wait until I know myself better . 
Though you have spoken to me of the matter before , I realize now that I never have made any effort to determine whether or not I really can love you . 
There is time enough before we reach civilization , if ever we are fortunate enough to do so at all . 
Virginia could not understand why it was that the face of the stranger persisted in obtruding itself in her memory . 
That the man was unusually good looking was undeniable , but she had known many good looking men , nor was she especially impressionable to mere superficial beauty . 
Von Horn had left her , and strolled down to the river . 
Finally Virginia arose to seek the crude couch which had been spread for her in one of the sleeping rooms of the long house . 
Why , Sing ! exclaimed Virginia . 
What in the world do you mean by saying such a thing as that ? Never mind , Linee you always good to old Sing . 
Sing no likee see you sadee . 
Dloctor Hornee velly bad man , las allee , and without another word the Chinaman turned and walked away . 
With difficulty they had saved the chest and dragged it after them into the mazes of the underbrush . 
Ninaka was panic stricken , since he knew that hampered as he was by the heavy chest he could neither fight nor run to advantage . 
Then , with his men , he hastened down the stream until they reached the head of prahu navigation where they stole a craft and paddled swiftly on toward the sea . 
When the truth dawned upon him that he was being killed the instinct of self preservation was born in him . 
The ferocity with which he had fought before paled into insignificance beside the mad fury with which he now attacked the three terrible creatures upon him . 
There was one awful shriek from the tortured brute the vertebrae parted with a snap , and Bulan's antagonists were reduced to two . 
Lunging and struggling the three combatants stumbled farther and farther into the jungle beyond the clearing . 
With mighty blows the man buffeted the beasts to right and left , but ever they returned in bestial rage to renew the encounter . 
So it was that though Sing passed within a few paces of the unconscious man he neither saw nor heard aught of him or his antagonists . 
When Bulan returned to consciousness the day was drawing to a close . 
He was stiff and sore and weak . 
Here he quenched his thirst and bathed his wounds , and as darkness came he lay down to sleep upon a bed of matted grasses . 
While he was hunting in the jungle for his breakfast he came suddenly upon Number Three and Number Twelve similarly employed . 
At sight of him the two creatures started to run away , but he called to them reassuringly and they returned . 
Even the beasts loathe us , exclaimed Number Twelve . 
What are we to do ? Leave the beasts alone , as I told you , replied Bulan . 
Human beings hate us also , persisted Number Twelve . 
Then let us live by ourselves , suggested Number Three . 
We hate each other , retorted the pessimistic Number Twelve . 
There is no place for us in the world , and no companionship . 
We are but soulless things . 
I am not a soulless thing . 
He recognized the language as that of the Dyaks , though he could interpret nothing which they said . 
Presently he saw a dozen warriors emerge into a little patch of moonlight . 
They bore a huge chest among them which they deposited within a few paces of where Bulan lay . 
Then they commenced to dig in the soft earth with their spears and parangs until they had excavated a shallow pit . 
The balance of the loose earth which would not go back into the pit was thrown into the river . 
As von Horn stood by the river's bank after his conversation with Virginia , he saw a small sampan approaching from up stream . 
When the men had come close to the landing one of them gave a low signal , and presently a native came down from the long house . 
Who is it comes by night ? he asked . 
Is it true ? Yes , answered the man on shore . 
What do you wish of the Rajah Muda Saffir ? We are men of his company and we have news for him , returned the speaker in the sampan . 
Tell him that we must speak to him at once . 
The native on shore returned to the long house without replying . 
Von Horn wondered what the important news for Muda Saffir might be , and so he remained as he had been , concealed behind the prahu . 
Presently the old Malay came down to the water's edge very warily though and asked the men whom they might be . 
When they had given their names he seemed relieved . 
Muda Saffir thought for a moment . 
Hasten back to the uncle of Barunda and tell him that as soon as I can gather the warriors I shall come and punish Ninaka . 
Also , be sure to tell Barunda's uncle never to lose sight of the treasure , and Muda Saffir turned and hastened back to the long house . 
As the men in the sampan headed the boat's bow up stream again , von Horn ran along the jungle trail beside the river and abreast of the paddlers . 
When he thought that they were out of hearing of the long house he hailed the two . 
In startled surprise the men ceased paddling . 
Who are you and what do you want ? asked one . 
I am the man to whom the chest belongs , replied von Horn . 
What say you ? The two natives consulted together in low tones . 
At last they drew nearer the shore . 
Will you give us each a bracelet of brass as well as the rifles ? asked the spokesman . 
He knew the native nature well . 
To have acquiesced too readily would have been to have invited still further demands from them . 
Only the rifles and ammunition , he said at last , unless you succeed in keeping the knowledge of my presence from both Barunda's uncle and Muda Saffir . 
If you do that you shall have the bracelets also . 
The prow of the sampan touched the bank . 
Come ! said one of the warriors . 
His guides were two savage head hunting warriors of a pirate crew from whom he hoped to steal what they considered a fabulously rich treasure . 
That he was taking his life in his hands he well knew , but so great was the man's cupidity that he reckoned no risk too great for the acquirement of a fortune . 
The two Dyaks , paddling in silence up the dark river , proceeded for nearly three hours before they drew in to the bank and dragged the sampan up into the bushes . 
Then they set out upon a narrow trail into the jungle . 
And so it was that Bulan was not the only one who watched the hiding of the chest . 
When Ninaka had disappeared down the river trail Bulan lay speculating upon the strange actions he had witnessed . 
He wondered why the men should dig a hole in the midst of the jungle to hide away the box which he had so often seen in Professor Maxon's workshop . 
A moment later the man was followed by two Dyaks . 
The three stood conversing in low tones , pointing repeatedly at the spot where the chest lay hidden . 
Bulan could understand but little of their conversation , but it was evident that von Horn was urging some proposition to which the warriors demurred . 
Suddenly , without an instant's warning , von Horn drew his gun , wheeled , and fired point blank , first at one of his companions , then at the other . 
Both men fell in their tracks , and scarcely had the pungent odor of the powder smoke reached Bulan's nostrils ere the white man had plunged into the jungle and disappeared . 
There he could form a party of natives and set out to regain the chest after Muda Saffir and Barunda's uncle had given up the quest . 
The thing which the chief demurred to had occurred to Muda Saffir even as he walked back from the river after conversing with the two Dyak messengers . 
The thought of regaining the treasure , the while he administered punishment to the traitorous Ninaka , filled his soul with savage happiness . 
So he explained to the chief the plan that had so suddenly sprung to his wicked mind . 
Three men with parangs may easily quiet the old man , his assistant and the Chinaman , he said , and then we can take the girl along with us . 
The chief refused at first , point blank , to be a party to any such proceedings . 
Virginia slept in a room with three Dyak women . 
It was to this apartment that the chief finally consented to dispatch two of his warriors . 
The men crept noiselessly within the pitch dark interior until they came to the sleeping form of one of the Dyak women . 
Where is the white girl ? asked one of the men in a low whisper . 
Muda Saffir has sent us for her . 
Tell her that her father is very sick and wants her , but do not mention Muda Saffir's name lest she might not come . 
The moment that the possibilities suggested by these few words dawned upon her , she sprang to her feet and followed the woman toward the door of the apartment . 
Where von Horn and his two Dyak guides had landed , Muda Saffir's force disembarked and plunged into the jungle . 
Now Bulan had been an interested witness of all that transpired . 
Number Three and Number Twelve still slept , not having been aroused even by the shots fired by von Horn . 
His interest in either party was but passive until he saw the khaki blouse , short skirt and trim leggins of the captive walking between two of the Dyaks of Muda Saffir's company . 
At the same instant he recognized the evil features of the rajah as those of the man who had directed the abduction of Virginia Maxon from the wrecked Ithaca . 
Like a great cat Bulan drew himself cautiously to all fours every nerve and muscle taut with the excitement of the moment . 
Before him he saw a hundred and fifty ferocious Borneo head hunters , armed with parangs , spears and sumpitans . 
The muscles stood out upon his giant forearm as he gripped the stock of his bull whip . 
Silence ! he whispered , and Come ! The girl is here . 
Kill the men , and the same to the hairy and terrible Number Three . 
Silently Bulan came to his feet , the two monsters at his back rising and pressing close behind him . 
Along the denser shadows the three crept to a position in the rear of the natives . 
The girl's guards had stepped forward with the others to join in the discussion that followed the dying statement of the murdered warrior , leaving her upon the outer fringe of the crowd . 
For an instant a sudden hope of escape sprang to Virginia Maxon's mind there was none between her and the jungle through which they had just passed . 
She saw the war caps , shields , and war coats , and her heart sank . 
Here were others of the rajah's party stragglers who had come just in time to thwart her plans . 
Then , to her surprise , she heard in whispered English Come quietly , while they are not looking . 
She thought the voice familiar , but could not place it , though her heart whispered that it might belong to the young stranger of her dreams . 
He reached out and took her hand and together they turned and walked quickly toward the jungle , followed by the two who had accompanied him . 
Scarcely had they covered half the distance before one of the Dyaks whose duty it had been to guard the girl discovered that she was gone . 
With a cry he alarmed his fellows , and in another instant a sharp pair of eyes caught the movement of the four who had now broken into a run . 
With savage shouts the entire force of head hunters sprang in pursuit . 
Bulan lifted Virginia in his arms and dashed on ahead of Number Twelve and Number Three . 
Into the jungle dashed the four while close behind them came the howling pack of enraged savages . 
Now one closed upon Number Three only to fall back dead with a broken neck as the giant fingers released their hold upon him . 
Thus they fought the while they forced their way deeper and deeper into the dark mazes of the entangled vegetation . 
The brunt of the running battle was borne by the two monsters , for Bulan was carrying Virginia , and keeping a little ahead of his companions to insure the girl's greater safety . 
A moment later she caught sight of Number Twelve's hideous face . 
But she could see the two who ran and fought just behind them , and she shuddered at her inevitable fate . 
Now the head hunters were pressing closer , and suddenly , even as the girl looked directly at him , a spear passed through the heart of Number Three . 
An instant later Virginia Maxon saw the hideous and grisly head swinging high in the hand of a dancing , whooping savage . 
The man who carried her was now forced to turn and fight off the enemy that pressed forward past Number Twelve . 
The mighty bull whip whirled and cracked across the heads and faces of the Dyaks . 
Virginia could see that the creature who bore her was not deformed of body , but she shrank from the thought of what a sight of his face might reveal . 
The country now was becoming rougher and more open . 
The flight seemed to be leading into a range of low hills , where the jungle grew less dense , and the way rocky and rugged . 
They had entered a narrow canyon when Number Twelve went down beneath a half dozen parangs . 
Again the girl saw a bloody head swung on high and heard the fierce , wild chorus of exulting victory . 
She wondered how long it would be ere the creature beneath her would add his share to the grim trophies of the hunt . 
There he turned , winded , to await the oncoming foe . 
Here was a spot where a single man might defy an army , and Bulan had been quick to see the natural advantages of it . 
He placed the girl upon her feet behind a protruding shoulder of the canyon's wall which rose to a considerable distance still above them . 
Then he turned to face the mob that was surging up the narrow pathway toward him . 
Many of the pieces were large , weighing twenty and thirty pounds , and some even as much as fifty . 
Picking up one of the larger Bulan raised it high above his head , and then hurled it down amongst the upclimbing warriors . 
In an instant pandemonium reigned , for the heavy boulder had mowed down a score of the pursuers , breaking arms and legs in its meteoric descent . 
For a moment Bulan stood watching the retreating savages , a smile upon his lips , and then as the sudden equatorial dawn burst forth he turned to face the girl . 
Thank God ! she cried fervently . 
Thank God that you are a man I thought that I was in the clutches of the hideous and soulless monster , Number Thirteen . 
The smile upon the young man's face died . 
An expression of pain , and hopelessness , and sorrow swept across his features . 
It was the girl who first spoke . 
Who are you , she asked , to whom I owe my safety ? The man hesitated . 
To speak aught than the truth had never occurred to him during his brief existence . 
He scarcely knew how to lie . 
To him a question demanded but one manner of reply the facts . 
But never before had he had to face a question where so much depended upon his answer . 
He tried to form the bitter , galling words but a vision of that lovely face suddenly transformed with horror and disgust throttled the name in his throat . 
I am Bulan , he said , at last , quietly . 
Bulan , repeated the girl . 
Why that is a native name . 
You are either an Englishman or an American . 
What is your true name ? My name is Bulan , he insisted doggedly . 
Virginia Maxon thought that he must have some good reason of his own for wishing to conceal his identity . 
Her woman's intuition was sufficient guarantee of the nobility of his character . 
Then let me thank you , Mr. Bulan , she said , for the service that you have rendered a strange and helpless woman . 
Just Bulan , he said . 
There is no need for Miss or Mister in the savage jungle , Virginia . 
The girl flushed at the sudden and unexpected use of her given name , and was surprised that she was not offended . 
How do you know my name ? she asked . 
I lived upon the island near your father's camp , he said . 
I knew you all by sight . 
How long have you lived there ? asked the girl . 
We thought the island uninhabited . 
All my life , replied Bulan truthfully . 
It is strange , she mused . 
But the monsters how is it that they followed you and obeyed your commands ? Bulan touched the bull whip that hung at his side . 
Von Horn taught them to obey this , he said . 
He used that upon them ? cried the girl in horror . 
It was the only way , said Bulan . 
They were almost brainless they could understand nothing else , for they could not reason . 
Where are they now the balance of them ? she asked . 
They are dead , poor things , he replied , sadly . 
Poor , hideous , unloved , unloving monsters they gave up their lives for the daughter of the man who made them the awful , repulsive creatures that they were . 
What do you mean ? cried the girl . 
I mean that all have been killed searching for you , and battling with your enemies . 
Poor things , murmured the girl , but yet they are better off , for without brains or souls there could be no happiness in life for them . 
My father did them a hideous wrong , but it was an unintentional wrong . 
I do not understand , said Bulan . 
It was his intention to give me in marriage to one of his soulless monsters to the one he called Number Thirteen . 
Why do you loathe them so ? asked Bulan . 
And you think that regardless of their physical appearance the fact that they were without souls would have been apparent ? asked Bulan . 
I am sure of it , cried Virginia . 
I would know the moment I set my eyes upon a creature without a soul . 
Just how do you distinguish the possessor of a soul ? he asked . 
The girl cast a quick glance up at him . 
You are making fun of me , she said . 
Not at all , he replied . 
I am just curious as to how souls make themselves apparent . 
I have seen men kill one another as beasts kill . 
I have seen one who was cruel to those within his power , yet they were all men with souls . 
I have seen eleven soulless monsters die to save the daughter of a man whom they believed had wronged them terribly a man with a soul . 
How then am I to know what attributes denote the possession of the immortal spark ? How am I to know whether or not I possess a soul ? Virginia smiled . 
He would have envied them but for the anticipation of the time that he might be alone with her before she learned the truth . 
As he pondered the future there came to him the thought that should they never find Professor Maxon or von Horn the girl need never know but that he was a human being . 
He need not lose her then , but always be near her . 
The idea grew and with it the mighty temptation to lead Virginia Maxon far into the jungle , and keep her forever from the sight of men . 
He would be very kind and good to her . 
She should be much happier and a thousand times safer than with those others who were so poorly equipped to protect her . 
What would have been her emotions had she guessed what thoughts were his ! It was she who broke the silence . 
Can you find the way to the long house where my father is ? she asked . 
Bulan , startled at the question , looked up from his reverie . 
The thing must be faced , then , sooner than he thought . 
How was he to tell her of his intention ? It occurred to him to sound her first possibly she would make no objection to the plan . 
You are anxious to return ? he asked . 
Why , yes , of course , I am , she replied . 
My father will be half mad with apprehension , until he knows that I am safe . 
What a strange question , indeed . 
Still , however , she did not doubt the motives of her companion . 
Suppose we should be unable to find our way to the long house ? he continued . 
Oh , don't say such a thing , cried the girl . 
I should die of misery and fright and loneliness in this awful jungle . 
The girl's words cast a cloud over Bulan's hopes . 
The future looked less roseate with the knowledge that she would be unhappy in the life that he had been mapping for them . 
Then , in addition to being deprived of her forever , he must suffer the galling mortification of her scorn . 
Therefore he reasoned that wickedness presupposed a small and worthless soul , or the entire lack of one . 
That she would hate a soulless creature he accepted as a foregone conclusion . 
The girl had been watching him closely as he stood silently thinking after her last words . 
She did not know the struggle that the calm face hid yet she felt that the dragging moments were big with the question of her fate . 
Well ? she said at length . 
I shall take you to him , Virginia , if man can find him . 
The constraint that suddenly fell upon them was relieved when Bulan motioned her to follow him back down the trail into the gorge in search of food . 
There they sat together upon a fallen tree beside a tiny rivulet , eating the fruit that the man gathered . 
Often their eyes met as they talked , but always the girl's fell before the open worship of the man's . 
Many were the men who had looked in admiration at Virginia Maxon in the past , but never , she felt , with eyes so clean and brave and honest . 
There was no guile or evil in them , and because of it she wondered all the more that she could not face them . 
What a wonderful soul those eyes portray , she thought , and how perfectly they assure the safety of my life and honor while their owner is near me . 
And the man thought Would that I owned a soul that I might aspire to live always near her always to protect her . 
The combined jungle craft of the two had been insufficient either to trace the way that they had come , or point the general direction of the river . 
As the afternoon drew to a close Virginia Maxon commenced to lose heart she was confident that they were lost . 
Bulan made no pretence of knowing the way , the most that he would say being that eventually they must come to the river . 
Several times Virginia became obsessed with the idea that Bulan had left her alone there in the jungle , but when she called his name he answered from close beside her shelter . 
The next day with its night , and the next , and the next were but repetitions of the first . 
It had become an agony of suffering for the man to fight off sleep longer . 
It was on the fifth morning , when Virginia awoke , that she found Bulan rolling and tossing upon the wet ground before her shelter , delirious with fever . 
Instead she was a lioness , watching over and protecting her sick mate . 
What a noble and unselfish love yours has been , she murmured . 
They could get no help from the natives of the long house , who feared the vengeance of Muda Saffir should he learn that they had aided the white men upon his trail . 
For the most part the young giant's ravings were inarticulate , but now and then Virginia heard her name linked with words of reverence and worship . 
The man fought again the recent battles he had passed through , and again suffered the long night watches beside the sleeping girl who filled his heart . 
Then it was that she learned the truth of his self sacrificing devotion . 
The thing that puzzled her most was the repetition of a number and a name which ran through all his delirium Nine ninety nine Priscilla . 
Gently she took his hand , and at the act he smiled at her very weakly . 
You are better , Bulan , she said . 
You have been very sick , but now you shall soon be well again . 
She did not believe her own words , yet the mere saying of them gave her renewed hope . 
Yes , replied the man . 
I shall soon be well again . 
How long have I been like this ? For two days , she replied . 
And you have watched over me alone in the jungle for two days ? he asked incredulously . 
Had it been for life , she said in a low voice , it would scarce have repaid the debt I owe you . 
For a long time he lay looking up into her eyes longingly , wistfully . 
I wish that it had been for life , he said . 
At first she did not quite realize what he meant , but presently the tired and hopeless expression of his eyes brought to her a sudden knowledge of his meaning . 
Oh , Bulan , she cried , you must not say that . 
Why should you wish to die ? Because I love you , Virginia , he replied . 
And because , when you know what I am , you will hate and loathe me . 
Bulan saw them at the same instant , and as Virginia ran forward to greet her father he staggered weakly to his feet . 
Von Horn was the first to see the young giant , and with an oath sprang toward him , drawing his revolver as he came . 
You beast , he cried . 
We have caught you at last . 
At the words Virginia turned back toward Bulan with a little scream of warning and of horror . 
Professor Maxon was behind her . 
Shoot the monster , von Horn , he ordered . 
Do not let him escape . 
Bulan drew himself to his full height , and though he wavered from weakness , yet he towered mighty and magnificent above the evil faced man who menaced him . 
Shoot ! he said calmly . 
Death cannot come too soon now . 
At the same instant von Horn pulled the trigger . 
The giant's head fell back , he staggered , whirled about , and crumpled to the earth just as Virginia Maxon's arms closed about him . 
Like a tigress the girl turned upon the two white men . 
You are murderers , she cried . 
Weak and exhausted by fever he could not combat you , and so you have robbed the world of one of the noblest men that God ever created . 
Hush ! cried Professor Maxon . 
Hush , child , you do not know what you say . 
The thing was a monster a soulless monster . 
At the words the girl looked up quickly at her father , a faint realization of his meaning striking her like a blow in the face . 
What do you mean ? she whispered . 
Who was he ? It was von Horn who answered . 
No god created that , he said , with a contemptuous glance at the still body of the man at their feet . 
He was one of the creatures of your father's mad experiments the soulless thing for whose arms his insane obsession doomed you . 
The thing at your feet , Virginia , was Number Thirteen . 
With a piteous little moan the girl turned back toward the body of the young giant . 
Virginia ! cried the professor . 
Are you mad , child ? I am not mad , she moaned , not yet . 
Man or monster , it would have been all the same to me , for I loved him . 
Her father turned away , burying his face in his hands . 
What an awful punishment you have visited upon me for the sin of the thing I did . 
Do'n cly , Linee , said the kindly old Chinaman . 
Him white man , alsame Mlaxon . 
The girl looked up at him in gratitude . 
He is not dead , Sing ? He will live ? she cried . 
I don't care about anything else , Sing , if you will only make him live . 
What do you mean by saying that he is not a monster ? demanded von Horn . 
You waitee , you dam flool , cried Sing . 
I tellee lot more I know . 
You waitee I flixee him , and then , by God , I flixee you . 
Von Horn took a menacing step toward the Chinaman , his face black with wrath , but Professor Maxon interposed . 
This has gone quite far enough , Doctor von Horn , he said . 
It may be that we acted hastily . 
I do not know , of course , what Sing means , but I intend to find out . 
He has been very faithful to us , and deserves every consideration . 
Von Horn stepped back , still scowling . 
Sing poured a little water between Bulan's lips , and then asked Professor Maxon for his brandy flask . 
With the first few drops of the fiery liquid the giant's eyelids moved , and a moment later he raised them and looked about him . 
The first face he saw was Virginia's . 
It was full of love and compassion . 
They have not told you yet ? he asked . 
They have told me , but it makes no difference . 
A look of happiness lighted his face momentarily , only to fade as quickly as it had come . 
No , Virginia , he said , sadly , it would not be right . 
I am not a human being . 
I am only a soulless monster . 
You cannot mate with such as I. You must go away with your father . 
Soon you will forget me . 
Never , Bulan ! cried the girl , determinedly . 
The man was about to attempt to dissuade her , when Sing interrupted . 
You keepee still , Bulan , he said . 
You wait till Sing tellee . 
Mlaxon he no makee you . 
Sing he find you in low bloat jus' outsidee cove . 
No know where comee from . 
Sing he jes' hearee Mlaxon tellee Hornee 'bout Nlumber Thlirteen . 
How he makee him for Linee . 
Sing he know what kindee fleaks Mlaxon makee . 
Linee always good to old Sing . 
Sing he been peeking thlu clack in wallee . 
See blig vlat where Thlirteen growing . 
Sing he takee you to Sing's shackee that night . 
Hide you till evlybody sleep . 
Then he sneak you in workee shop . 
Nex' mlorning Mlaxon makee blig hulabaloo . 
Whoop ! Thlirteen clome too soonee , but allight him finee , perfec' man . 
Whoop ! Anyway , you heap better for Linee than one Mlaxon's fleaks , he concluded , turning toward Bulan . 
You are lying , you yellow devil , cried von Horn . 
The Chinaman turned his shrewd , slant eyes malevolently upon the doctor . 
Sing lies ? he hissed . 
Mabbeso Sing lies when he ask what for you glet Bludleen steal tleasure . 
But Lajah Saffir he come and spoil it all while you tly glet Linee to the ship Sing knows . 
Then you tellee Mlaxon Thlirteen steal Linee . 
You lie then and you knew you lie . 
You lie again when Thlirteen savee Linee flom Oulang Outang you say you savee Linee . 
Then you make bad talkee with Lajah Saffir at long house . 
Sing hear you all timee . 
You tly getee tleasure away from Dlyaks for your self . 
Then Stop ! roared von Horn . 
Stop ! You lying yellow sneak , before I put a bullet in you . 
Both of you may stop now , said Professor Maxon authoritatively . 
There have been charges made here that cannot go unnoticed . 
Can you prove these things Sing ? he asked turning to the Chinaman . 
I plove much by Bludleen's lascar . 
Bludleen tell him all 'bout Hornee . 
I plove some more by Dyak chief at long house . 
It all tlue , Mlaxon . 
And it is true about this man the thing that you have told us is true ? He is not one of those created in the laboratory ? No , Mlaxon . 
You no makee fine young man like Blulan you know lat , Mlaxon . 
You makee One , Two , Thlee all up to Twelve . 
You ought to know , Mlaxon , lat you no can makee a Blulan . 
During these revelations Bulan had sat with his eyes fixed upon the Chinaman . 
There was a puzzled expression upon his wan , blood streaked face . 
The girl kneeled close beside him , one small hand in his . 
Hope and happiness had supplanted the sorrow in her face . 
She tore the hem from her skirt , to bandage the bloody furrow that creased the man's temple . 
Professor Maxon stood silently by , watching the loving tenderness that marked each deft , little movement of her strong , brown hands . 
The revelations of the past few minutes had shocked the old man into stupefied silence . 
Now he recalled a hundred chance incidents and conversations with his assistant that pointed squarely toward the man's disloyalty and villainy . 
He wondered that he had been so blind as not to have suspected his lieutenant long before . 
Virginia had at last succeeded in adjusting her rude bandage and stopping the flow of blood . 
Bulan had risen weakly to his feet . 
The girl supported him upon one side , and Sing upon the other . 
Professor Maxon approached the little group . 
I do not know what to make of all that Sing has told us , he said . 
If you are not Number Thirteen who are you ? Where did you come from ? It seems very strange indeed impossible , in fact . 
However , if you will explain who you are , I shall be glad to ah consider ah permitting you to pay court to my daughter . 
I do not know who I am , replied Bulan . 
I had always thought that I was only Number Thirteen , until Sing just spoke . 
Now I have a faint recollection of drifting for days upon the sea in an open boat beyond that all is blank . 
You shall do nothing of the kind , cried the girl . 
You love me , and I you . 
My father intended to force me to marry you while he still thought that you were a soulless thing . 
Now that it is quite apparent that you are a human being , and a gentleman , he hesitates , but I do not . 
As I have told you before , it makes no difference to me what you are . 
You have told me that you love me . 
You have demonstrated a love that is high , and noble , and self sacrificing . 
More than that no girl needs to know . 
I am satisfied to be the wife of Bulan if Bulan is satisfied to have the daughter of the man who has so cruelly wronged him . 
An arm went around the girl's shoulders and drew her close to the man she had glorified with her loyalty and her love . 
The other hand was stretched out toward Professor Maxon . 
In the meantime let us be friends , professor , for we are both actuated by the same desire the welfare and happiness of your daughter . 
The old man stepped forward and took Bulan's hand . 
The expression of doubt and worry had left his face . 
Bulan responded only with a tighter pressure of the hand . 
And now , said the professor , let us return to the long house . 
I wish to have a few words in private with you , von Horn , and he turned to face his assistant , but the man had disappeared . 
Where is Doctor von Horn ? exclaimed the scientist , addressing Sing . 
Hornee , him vamoose long time 'go , replied the Chinaman . 
He hear all he likee . 
And to think , she cried , that all these awful days we have been almost within sound of your voices . 
You may imagine our surprise , Virginia , when after proceeding for but a mile we discovered you . 
While they were still discussing von Horn's act , and wondering at his intentions , a native on the verandah cried out in astonishment , pointing down the river . 
As they looked in the direction he indicated all saw a graceful , white cutter gliding around a nearby turn . 
At the oars were white clad American sailors , and in the stern two officers in the uniform of the United States navy . 
PRISCILLA As the cutter touched the bank the entire party from the long house , whites and natives , were gathered on the shore to meet it . 
I am Lieutenant May , he said , of the U. S. S. New Mexico , flagship of the Pacific Fleet . 
Have I the honor to address Professor Maxon ? The scientist nodded . 
I am delighted , he said . 
Mixed with the truth they told us were strange tales of terrible monsters led by a gigantic white man . 
The imaginings of childish minds , said the professor . 
We came to your island to arrest this man I refer to Doctor Carl von Horn . 
A few miles up the river they came upon one of the Dyaks who had accompanied von Horn , a few hours earlier . 
The warrior sat smoking beside a beached prahu . 
When interrogated he explained that von Horn and the balance of his crew had gone inland , leaving him to guard the boat . 
He said that he thought he could guide them to the spot where the white man might be found . 
Professor Maxon and Sing accompanied one of the officers and a dozen sailors in the wake of the Dyak guide . 
Virginia and Bulan remained in the cutter , as the latter was still too weak to attempt the hard march through the jungle . 
For an hour the party traversed the trail in the wake of von Horn and his savage companions . 
At sight of the white men they halted in relief , pointing back in the direction they had come , and jabbering excitedly in their native tongue . 
The sight that met the eyes of the searchers told all of the story that they needed to know . 
A hole had been excavated in the ground , partially uncovering a heavy chest , and across this chest lay the headless body of Doctor Carl von Horn . 
Lieutenant May turned toward Professor Maxon with a questioning look . 
It is he , said the scientist . 
But the chest ? inquired the officer . 
Mlaxon's tleasure , spoke up Sing Lee . 
Hornee him tly steal it for long time . 
Treasure ! ejaculated the professor . 
Bududreen gave up his life for this . 
But , Professor Maxon , said Lieutenant May , men will suffer all these things and more for gold . 
Gold ! cried the professor . 
Why , man , that is a box of books on biology and eugenics . 
No ! exclaimed Professor Maxon with a vehemence the other could not understand . 
Let them bury it again where it lies . 
It and what it contains have been the cause of sufficient misery and suffering and crime . 
On the morning of the third day following the death of von Horn the New Mexico steamed away from the coast of Borneo . 
Upon her deck , looking back toward the verdure clad hills , stood Virginia and Bulan . 
Thank heaven , exclaimed the girl fervently , that we are leaving it behind us forever . 
Amen , replied Bulan , but yet , had it not been for Borneo I might never have found you . 
We should have met elsewhere then , Bulan , said the girl in a low voice , for we were made for one another . 
No power on earth could have kept us apart . 
In your true guise you would have found me I am sure of it . 
It is maddening , Virginia , said the man , to be constantly straining every resource of my memory in futile endeavor to catch and hold one fleeting clue to my past . 
Why , dear , do you realize that I may have been a fugitive from justice , as was von Horn , a vile criminal perhaps . 
It is awful , Virginia , to contemplate the horrible possibilities of my lost past . 
No , Bulan , you could never have been a criminal , replied the loyal girl , but there is one possibility that has been haunting me constantly . 
Bulan was about to laugh away any such fears when the gravity and importance of the possibility impressed him quite as fully as it had Virginia . 
There is something that gives weight to my fear , continued Virginia , something that I had almost forgotten in the rush and excitement of events during the past few days . 
During your delirium your ravings were , for the most part , quite incoherent , but there was one name that you repeated many times a woman's name , preceded by a number . 
It was Nine ninety nine Priscilla . 
Maybe she But Virginia got no further . 
With a low exclamation of delight Bulan caught her in his arms . 
It is all right , dear , he cried . 
Everything has come back to me now . 
You have given me the clue . 
Nine ninety nine Priscilla is my father's address Nine ninety nine Priscilla Avenue . 
I am Townsend J. Harper , Jr . 
You have heard of my father . 
Every one has since he commenced consolidating interurban traction companies . 
And I'm not married , Virginia , and never have been but I shall be if this miserable old mud scow ever reaches Singapore . 
It is a long story . 
After dinner I will tell you all of it that I can recall . 
On my father's yacht I reached your island after trailing you to Singapore . 
Five of us put off in a boat to explore that is the last that I can recall . 
Sing says he found me alone in a row boat , a dummy . 
Virginia sighed , and crept closer to him . 
End of Project Gutenberg edition of The Monster Men . 
