For that reason it begins with a pink tea and among the mingled odors of many delicate perfumes and the hale , frank smell of Caroline Testout roses . 
There had been a great number of debutantes coming out that season in San Francisco by means of afternoon teas , pink , lavender , and otherwise . 
Ross Wilbur presented himself at the Herrick house on Pacific Avenue much too early upon the afternoon of Miss Herrick's tea . 
A single high hat in the room that had been set apart for the men's use confirmed him in his suspicions . 
Might have known it would be a hen party till six , anyhow , he muttered , swinging out of his overcoat . 
When he went down he found it precisely as he expected . 
He went up to Miss Herrick , where she stood receiving with her mother and two of the other girls , and allowed them to chaff him on his forlornness . 
Maybe I seem at my ease , said Ross Wilbur to them , but really I am very much frightened . 
I'm going to run away as soon as it is decently possible , even before , unless you feed me . 
I believe you had luncheon not two hours ago , said Miss Herrick . 
Come along , though , and I'll give you some chocolate , and perhaps , if you're good , a stuffed olive . 
I got them just because I knew you liked them . 
I ought to stay here and receive , so I can't look after you for long . 
The two fought their way through the crowded rooms to the luncheon table , and Miss Herrick got Wilbur his chocolate and his stuffed olives . 
They sat down and talked in a window recess for a moment , Wilbur toeing in in absurd fashion as he tried to make a lap for his plate . 
I thought , said Miss Herrick , that you were going on the Ridgeways' yachting party this afternoon . 
Mrs. Ridgeway said she was counting on you . 
They are going out with the 'Petrel . 
She didn't count above a hundred , though , answered Wilbur . 
I got your bid first , so I regretted the yachting party and I guess I'd have regretted it anyhow , and he grinned at her over his cup . 
Nice man , she said adding on the instant , I must go now , Ross . 
Wait till I eat the sugar out of my cup , complained Wilbur . 
Will you give me the first and last ? I'll give you the first , and you can ask for the last then . 
Let's put it down I know you'll forget it . 
Wilbur drew a couple of cards from his case . 
Programmes are not good form any more , said Miss Herrick . 
Forgetting a dance is worse . 
He made out the cards , writing on the one he kept for himself , First waltz Jo . 
I must go back now , said Miss Herrick , getting up . 
In that case I shall run I'm afraid of girls . 
It's a pity about you . 
I am one girl , I don't say , but girl in the aggregate like this , and he pointed his chin toward the thronged parlors . 
Good by , until to night , about ? About nine . 
Ross Wilbur made his adieu to Mrs. Herrick and the girls who were receiving , and took himself away . 
His good height was helped out by his long coat and his high silk hat , and there was plenty of jaw in the lower part of his face . 
Nor was his tailor altogether answerable for his shoulders . 
Three years before this time Ross Wilbur had pulled at No. in his varsity boat in an Eastern college that was not accustomed to athletic discomfiture . 
I wonder what I'm going to do with myself until supper time , he muttered , as he came down the steps , feeling for the middle of his stick . 
He found no immediate answer to his question . 
But the afternoon was fine , and he set off to walk in the direction of the town , with a half formed idea of looking in at his club . 
At his club he found a letter in his box from his particular chum , who had been spending the month shooting elk in Oregon . 
Dear Old Man , it said , will be back on the afternoon you receive this . 
Will hit the town on the three o'clock boat . 
Get seats for the best show going my treat and arrange to assimilate nutriment at the Poodle Dog also mine . 
I've got miles of talk in me that I've got to reel off before midnight . 
I've got a stand of horns for you , Ross , that are Glory Hallelujah . 
Well , I can't go , murmured Wilbur , as he remembered the Assembly that was to come off that night and his engaged dance with Jo Herrick . 
He decided that it would be best to meet Jerry as he came off the boat and tell him how matters stood . 
No quarter of one of the most picturesque cities in the world had more interest for Wilbur than the water front . 
Wilbur had not forgotten that he himself was dressed for an afternoon function . 
But the incongruity of the business was precisely what most amused him . 
After a time the fellow suggested drinks . 
Wilbur hesitated for a moment . 
It would be something to tell about , however , so , All right , I'll drink with you , he said . 
The brown sweater led the way to a sailors' boarding house hard by . 
The rear of the place was built upon piles over the water . 
But in front , on the ground floor , was a barroom . 
Rum an' gum , announced the brown sweater , as the two came in and took their places at the bar . 
Rum an' gum , Tuck wattle you have , sir ? Oh I don't know , hesitated Wilbur give me a mild Manhattan . 
Wilbur turned about to look at it , and remained so , his back to the barkeeper , till the latter told them their drinks were ready . 
Well , mate , here's big blocks an' taut hawse pipes , said the brown sweater cordially . 
Your very good health , returned Wilbur . 
The brown sweater wiped a thin mustache in the hollow of his palm , and wiped that palm upon his trouser leg . 
Yessir , he continued , once more facing the Marquesas head dress . 
Yessir , they're queer game down there . 
In the Marquesas Islands , you mean ? said Wilbur . 
Yessir , they're queer game . 
When they ain't tattoin' theirselves with Scripture tex's they git from the missionaries , they're pullin' out the hairs all over their bodies with two clam shells . 
Hair by hair , y' understan' ? Pull'n out 'er hair ? said Wilbur , wondering what was the matter with his tongue . 
They think it's clever think the women folk like it . 
Wilbur had fancied that the little man had worn a brown sweater when they first met . 
But now , strangely enough , he was not in the least surprised to see it iridescent like a pigeon's breast . 
Y' ever been down that way ? inquired the little man next . 
Wilbur heard the words distinctly enough , but somehow they refused to fit into the right places in his brain . 
He pulled himself together , frowning heavily . 
What did you say ? he asked with great deliberation , biting off his words . 
Then he noticed that he and his companion were no longer in the barroom , but in a little room back of it . 
This latter Wilbur heard the iridescent sweater say Bust me , if y' a'n't squiffy , old man . 
Stand by a bit an' we'll have a ball . 
With the eyes of his undrugged self Wilbur had a glimpse of water below . 
His elbow struck the floor as he went down , and he fell feet first into a Whitehall boat . 
Suddenly but how long after his advent into the boat he could not tell his wits began to return and settle themselves , like wild birds flocking again after a scare . 
Swiftly he took in the scene . 
What do you call it ? shouted the red man . 
I want able seamen I don't figger on working this boat with dancing masters , do I ? We ain't exactly doing quadrilles on my quarterdeck . 
If we don't look out we'll step on this thing and break it . 
It ain't ought to be let around loose without its ma . 
Rot that , vociferated the brown sweater . 
I tell you he's one of the best sailor men on the front . 
If he ain't we'll forfeit the money . 
Come on , Captain Kitchell , we made show enough gettin' away as it was , and this daytime business ain't our line . 
D'you sign or not ? Here's the advance note . 
I got to duck my nut or I'll have the patrol boat after me . 
The brown sweater pocketed the note , went over the side , and rowed off . 
Wilbur stood in the waist of a schooner anchored in the stream well off Fisherman's wharf . 
In the forward part of the schooner a Chinaman in brown duck was mixing paint . 
Wilbur was conscious that he still wore his high hat and long coat , but his stick was gone and one gray glove was slit to the button . 
In front of him towered the enormous red faced man . 
A pungent reek of some kind of rancid fat or oil assailed his nostrils . 
Over by Alcatraz a ferry boat whistled for its slip as it elbowed its way through the water . 
Wilbur had himself fairly in hand by now . 
His wits were all about him but the situation was beyond him as yet . 
Git for'd , commanded the big man . 
Wilbur drew himself up , angry in an instant . 
Look here , he began , what's the meaning of this business ? I know I've been drugged and mishandled . 
I demand to be put ashore . 
Do you understand that ? Angel child , whimpered the big man . 
Oh , you lilee of the vallee , you bright an' mornin' star . 
I'm reely pained y'know , that your vally can't come along , but we'll have your piano set up in the lazarette . 
It gives me genuine grief , it do , to see you bein' obliged to put your lilee white feet on this here vulgar an' dirtee deck . 
We'll have the Wilton carpet down by to morrer , so we will , my dear . 
Yah h ! he suddenly broke out , as his rage boiled over . 
Git for'd , d'ye hear ! I'm captain of this here bathtub , an' that's all you need to know for a good while to come . 
I ain't generally got to tell that to a man but once but I'll stretch the point just for love of you , angel child . 
Now , then , move ! Wilbur stood motionless puzzled beyond expression . 
No experience he had ever been through helped in this situation . 
You're allowed two minutes to change , an' it is to be hoped as how you won't force me to come for to assist . 
It would have been interesting to have followed , step by step , the mental process that now took place in Ross Wilbur's brain . 
The Captain had given him two minutes in which to change . 
The time was short enough , but even at that Wilbur changed more than his clothes during the two minutes he was left to himself in the reekind dark of the schooner's fo'castle . 
It was more than a change it was a revolution . 
Only by results could the change be guessed at . 
He went down the forward hatch at the toe of Kitchell's boot silk hatted , melton overcoated , patent booted , and gloved in suedes . 
Two minutes later there emerged upon the deck a figure in oilskins and a sou'wester . 
There was blood upon the face of him and the grime of an unclean ship upon his bare hands . 
It was Wilbur , and yet not Wilbur . 
In two minutes he had been , in a way , born again . 
The only traces of his former self were the patent leather boots , still persistent in their gloss and shine , that showed grim incongruity below the vast compass of the oilskin breeches . 
As Wilbur came on deck he saw the crew of the schooner hurrying forward , six of them , Chinamen every one , in brown jeans and black felt hats . 
On the quarterdeck stood the Captain , barking his orders . 
Consider the Lilee of the Vallee , bellowed the latter , as his eye fell upon Wilbur the Transformed . 
Clap on to that starboard windlass brake , sonny . 
Wilbur saw the Chinamen ranging themselves about what he guessed was the windlass in the schooner's bow . 
He followed and took his place among them , grasping one of the bars . 
Break down ! came the next order . 
Wilbur and the Chinamen obeyed , bearing up and down upon the bars till the slack of the anchor chain came home and stretched taut and dripping from the hawse holes . 
Wilbur saw Nat Ridgeway himself at the wheel . 
Girls in smart gowns and young fellows in white ducks and yachting caps all friends of his crowded the decks . 
A little orchestra of musicians were reeling off a quickstep . 
The popping of a cork and a gale of talk and laughter came to his ears . 
Wilbur stared at the picture , his face devoid of expression . 
The Petrel came on drew nearer was not a hundred feet away from the schooner's stern . 
A strong swimmer , such as Wilbur , could cover the distance in a few strides . 
Two minutes ago Wilbur might have Set your mains'l , came the bellow of Captain Kitchell . 
Clap on to your throat and peak halyards . 
The name of the boat on which he found himself was the Bertha Millner . 
She was very dirty and smelt abominably of some kind of rancid oil . 
Her crew were Chinamen there was no mate . 
He acted in a manner as a go between for the Captain and the crew , sometimes interpreting the former's orders , and occasionally giving one of his own . 
Wilbur heard the Captain address him as Charlie . 
He spoke pigeon English fairly . 
Of the balance of the crew the five Chinamen Wilbur could make nothing . 
He might be gone a week . 
Wilbur could already see the scare heads of the daily papers the next morning , chronicling the disappearance of One of Society's Most Popular Members . 
That's well , y'r throat halyards . 
Here , Lilee of the Vallee , give a couple of pulls on y'r peak halyard purchase . 
Wilbur stared at the Captain helplessly . 
No can tell , hey ? inquired Charlie from the galley . 
Pullum disa lope , sabe ? Wilbur tugged at the rope the cook indicated . 
That's well , y'r peak halyard purchase , chanted Captain Kitchell . 
Wilbur made the rope fast . 
The mainsail was set , and hung slatting and flapping in the wind . 
Next the for'sail was set in much the same manner , and Wilbur was ordered to lay out on the ji'boom and cast the gaskets off the jib . 
That's well , y'r jib halyards . 
The Bertha Millner veered round and played off to the wind , tugging at her anchor . 
Wilbur and the crew jumped once more to the brakes . 
Brake down , heave y'r anchor to the cathead . 
The anchor chain , already taut , vibrated and then cranked through the hawse holes as the hands rose and fell at the brakes . 
The anchor came home , dripping gray slime . 
A nor'west wind filled the schooner's sails , a strong ebb tide caught her underfoot . 
We're off , muttered Wilbur , as the Bertha Millner heeled to the first gust . 
But evidently the schooner was not bound up the bay . 
Must be Vallejo or Benicia , then , hazarded Wilbur , as the sails grew tenser and the water rippled ever louder under the schooner's forefoot . 
Maybe they're going after hay or wheat . 
The schooner was tacking , headed directly for Meiggs's wharf . 
She came in closer and closer , so close that Wilbur could hear the talk of the fishermen sitting on the stringpieces . 
The sails slatted furiously as the schooner came about . 
Then the Bertha Millner caught the wind again and lay over quietly and contentedly to her work . 
The next tack brought the schooner close under Alcatraz . 
The sea became heavier , the breeze grew stiff and smelled of the outside ocean . 
Out beyond them to westward opened the Golden Gate , a bleak vista of gray green water roughened with white caps . 
Then again she scooped the nor'wester in the hollow palms of her tense canvases and settled quietly down on the new tack , her bowsprit pointing straight toward the Presidio . 
We'll come about again soon , Wilbur told himself , and stand over toward the Contra Costa shore . 
A fine huge breath of wind passed over the schooner . 
She heeled it on the instant , the water roaring along her quarter , but she kept her course . 
Wilbur fell thoughtful again , never more keenly observant . 
She must come about soon , he muttered uneasily , if she's going to stand up toward Vallejo . 
His heart sank with a sudden apprehension . 
A nervousness he could not overcome seized upon him . 
The Bertha Millner held tenaciously to the tack . 
Within fifty yards of the Presidio came the command again Stand by for stays . 
Once more , her bows dancing , her cordage rattling , her sails flapping noisily , the schooner came about . 
Anxiously Wilbur observed the bowsprit as it circled like a hand on a dial , watching where now it would point . 
It wavered , fluctuated , rose , fell , then settled easily , pointing toward Lime Point . 
Wilbur felt a sudden coldness at his heart . 
This isn't going to be so much fun , he muttered between his teeth . 
The schooner was not bound up the bay for Alviso nor to Vallejo for grain . 
The track toward Lime Point could mean but one thing . 
As before , one of the Chinese hands stood by the sail rope of the jib . 
The schooner came about on the port tack Lime Point fell away over the stern rail . 
The schooner was beating out to sea through the Middle Channel . 
Once clear of the Golden Gate , she stood over toward the Cliff House , then on the next tack cleared Point Bonita . 
The sea began building up in deadly earnest they were about to cross the bar . 
Everything was battened down , the scuppers were awash , and the hawse holes spouted like fountains after every plunge . 
The wind blew violent and cold , the spray was flying like icy small shot . 
Without intermission the Bertha Millner rolled and plunged and heaved and sank . 
Wilbur was drenched to the skin and sore in every joint , from being shunted from rail to mast and from mast to rail again . 
The crossing of the bar was one long half hour of confusion and discordant sound . 
When they were across the bar the Captain ordered the cook to give the men their food . 
Git for'rd , sonny , he added , fixing Wilbur with his eye . 
He descended the fo'c'sle hatch . 
The Chinamen were already there , sitting on the edges of their bunks . 
On the floor , at the bottom of the ladder , punk sticks were burning in an old tomato can . 
Charlie brought in supper stewed beef and pork in a bread pan and a wooden kit and the Chinamen ate in silence with their sheath knives and from tin plates . 
A liquid that bore a distant resemblance to coffee was served . 
Wilbur learned afterward to know the stuff as Black Jack , and to be aware that it was made from bud barley and was sweetened with molasses . 
Wilbur looked fearfully at the mess in the pan , recalling the chocolate and stuffed olives that had been his last luncheon . 
Well , he muttered , clinching his teeth , I've got to come to it sooner or later . 
His penknife was in the pocket of his waist coat , underneath his oilskin coat . 
He opened the big blade , harpooned a cube of pork , and deposited it on his tin plate . 
He ate it slowly and with savage determination . 
But the Black Jack was more than he could bear . 
I'm not hungry enough for that just now , he told himself . 
No sabe , no sabe , he answered , shaking his head and frowning . 
Throughout the whole of that strange meal these were the only words spoken . 
When Wilbur came on deck again he noted that the Bertha Millner had already left the whistling buoy astern . 
Off to the east , her sails just showing above the waves , was a pilot boat with the number on her mainsail . 
The evening was closing in the Farallones were in plain sight dead ahead . 
Far behind , in a mass of shadow just bluer than the sky , he could make out a few twinkling lights San Francisco . 
Half an hour later Kitchell came on deck from his supper in the cabin aft . 
The hands eased away and the schooner played off before the wind . 
The Bertha Millner headed to southwest , bowling easily ahead of a good eight knot breeze . 
Next came the order All hands aft ! and Wilbur and his mates betook themselves to the quarterdeck . 
Charlie took the wheel , and he and Kitchell began to choose the men for their watches , just as Wilbur remembered to have chosen sides for baseball during his school days . 
Sonny , I'll choose you you're on my watch , said the Captain to Wilbur , and I will assoom the ree sponsibility of your nautical eddoocation . 
I may as well tell you at once , began Wilbur , that I'm no sailor . 
Before I git throo with you , you'll be a sailorman or shark bait , I can promise you . 
You're on my watch step over here , son . 
The watches were divided , Charlie and three other Chinamen on the port , Kitchell , Wilbur , and two Chinamen on the starboard . 
The men trooped forward again . 
The tiny world of the schooner had lapsed to quiet . 
The Bertha Millner was now clear of the land , that lay like a blur of faintest purple smoke ever growing fainter low in the east . 
The Farallones showed but their shoulders above the horizon . 
The schooner was standing well out from shore even beyond the track of the coasters and passenger steamers to catch the Trades from the northwest . 
The sun was setting royally , and the floor of the ocean shimmered like mosaic . 
The sea had gone down and the fury of the bar was a thing forgotten . 
On board , the two watches mingled forward , smoking opium and playing a game that looked like checkers . 
Three of them were washing down the decks with kaiar brooms . 
For the first time since he had come on board Wilbur heard the sound of their voices . 
Never to Wilbur's eyes had the Pacific appeared so vast , so radiant , so divinely beautiful . 
A star or two burned slowly through that part of the sky where the pink began to fade into the blue . 
Charlie went forward and set the side lights red on the port rigging , green on the starboard . 
Wilbur went aft and came up on the poop , where Kitchell stood at the wheel , smoking an inverted Tarrier's Delight . 
You ain't no water front swine , I can guess that with one hand tied beehind me . 
You're a toff , that's what you are , and your lines has been laid for toffs . 
I ain't askin' you no questions , but you got brains , an' I figger on gettin' more outa you by lettin' you have y'r head a bit . 
You don't , an' I'll manhandle you till y'r bones come throo y'r hide . 
I've no choice in the matter , said Wilbur . 
I've got to make the best of a bad situation . 
I ree marked as how you had brains , muttered the Captain . 
Well , he said , resuming his pipe , it's like this , son . 
This ship belongs to one of the Six Chinese Companies of Chinatown in Frisco . 
Charlie , here , is one of the shareholders in the business . 
We go down here twice a year off Cape Sain' Lucas , Lower California , an' fish for blue sharks , or white , if we kin ketch 'em . 
I come in because it's a Custom house regulation that no coolie can take a boat out of Frisco . 
And how do I come in ? asked Wilbur . 
Mee dear friend Jim put a knock me out drop into your Manhattan cocktail . 
It's a capsule filled with a drug . 
You were shanghaied , son , said the Captain , blandly . 
About an hour later Wilbur turned in . 
Kitchell showed him his bunk with its donkey's breakfast and single ill smelling blanket . 
It was located under the companionway that led down into the cabin . 
Kitchell bunked on one side , Charlie on the other . 
Wilbur sat on the edge of his bunk before undressing , reviewing the extraordinary events of the day . 
He transformed the stuff to the bowl of a huge pipe and drew on it noisily once or twice . 
In another moment he had sunk back in his bunk , nearly senseless , but with a long breath of an almost blissful contentment . 
Beast ! muttered Wilbur , with profound disgust . 
It was just nine o'clock . 
All at once an idea occurred to him . 
He fumbled in another pocket of the waistcoat and brought out one of his calling cards . 
III THE LADY LETTY Another day passed , then two . 
Before Wilbur knew it he had settled himself to his new life , and woke one morning to the realization that he was positively enjoying himself . 
Daily the weather grew warmer . 
The fifth day out from San Francisco it was actually hot . 
The pitch grew soft in the Bertha Millner's deck seams , the masts sweated resin . 
The Chinamen went about the decks wearing but their jeans and blouses . 
Kitchell had long since abandoned his coat and vest . 
Furthermore , he showed him how to read the log and the manner of keeping the dead reckoning . 
More than once Wilbur looked around him at the empty coruscating indigo of the ocean floor , wondering at the necessity of the lookout , and finally expressed his curiosity to Kitchell . 
Kitchell had reemarked as how he had brains . 
Strike me , if I haven't thought of scuttling the dough dish for her insoorance . 
There's regular trade , son , to be done in ships , and then there's pickin's an' pickin's an' pickin's . 
Lord , the ocean's rich with pickin's . 
When you're clear o' land lay to this here pree cep' , 'A million to one on the unexpected . 
The next day fell almost dead calm . 
At noon , just after dinner , a few cat's paws curdled the milky blue whiteness of the glassy surface , and the water once more began to talk beneath the bow sprit . 
The sun spun silently like a spinning brass discus over the mainmast . 
On the fo'c'sle head the Chinamen were asleep or smoking opium . 
Kitchell dozed in his hammock in the shadow of the mainsheet . 
Wilbur was below tinkering with his paint pot about the cabin . 
It was the stillness of the summer sea at high noon . 
The lookout in the crow's nest broke the quiet . 
Hy yah , hy yah ! he cried , leaning from the barrel and calling through an arched palm . 
Hy yah , one two , plenty , many tortle , topside , wattah hy yah , all same tortle . 
Hello , hello ! cried the Captain , rolling from his hammock . 
Turtle ? Where away ? I tink um 'bout quallah mile , mebbee , four piecee tortle all same weatha bow . 
Turtle , hey ? Down y'r wheel , Jim , haul y'r jib to win'ward , he commanded the man at the wheel then to the men forward Get the dory overboard . 
Son , Charlie , and you , Wing , tumble in . 
Wake up now and see you stay so . 
The dory was swung over the side , and the men dropped into her and took their places at the oars . 
Give way , cried the Captain , settling himself in the bow with the gaff in his hand . 
Hey , Jim ! he shouted to the lookout far above , hey , lay our course for us . 
The lookout nodded , the oars fell , and the dory shot forward in the direction indicated by the lookout . 
Kin you row , son ? asked Kitchell , with sudden suspicion . 
You ask Charlie and Wing to ship their oars and give me a pair . 
The Captain complied , hesitating . 
The dory was cutting the water like a gasoline launch , and between strokes there was the least possible diminishing of the speed . 
I'm a bit out of form just now , remarked Wilbur , and I'm used to the sliding seat but I guess it'll do . 
Kitchell glanced at the human machine that once was No. in the Yale boat and then at the water hissing from the dory's bows . 
My Gawd ! he said , under his breath . 
He spat over the bows and sucked the nicotine from his mustache , thoughtfully . 
I ree marked , he observed , as how you had brains , my son . 
Out your paddles , sit on the gun'l , and paddle ee asy . 
The Captain's voice dropped to a whisper . 
His back was toward them and he gestured with one free hand . 
Easy sta'board , whispered the Captain under his elbow . 
Go ahead , port e e easy all , steady , steady . 
The affair began to assume the intensity of a little drama a little drama of midocean . 
In spite of himself , Wilbur was excited . 
He even found occasion to observe that the life was not so bad , after all . 
This was as good fun as stalking deer . 
The dory moved forward by inches . 
Strike me ! he's a whacker . 
I thought he was going to get away . 
Saw me just as I swung the gaff , an' ducked his nut . 
From under his shell protruded his snake like head and neck , withered like that of an old man . 
He was waving his head from side to side , the jaws snapping like a snapped silk handkerchief . 
Kitchell thrust him away with a paddle . 
The turtle craned his neck , and catching the bit of wood in his jaw , bit it in two in a single grip . 
I tol' you so , I tol' you to stand clear his snapper . 
If that had been your shin now , eh ? Hello , what's that ? Faintly across the water came a prolonged hallooing from the schooner . 
Kitchell stood up in the dory , shading his eyes with his hat . 
What's biting 'em now ? he muttered , with the uneasiness of a captain away from his ship . 
Oughta left Charlie on board or you , son . 
Who's doin' that yellin' , I can't make out . 
Up in the crow's nest , exclaimed Wilbur . 
It's Jim , see , he's waving his arms . 
Well , whaduz he wave his dam' fool arms for ? growled Kitchell , angry because something was going forward he did not understand . 
There , he's shouting again . 
Listen I can't make out what he's yelling . 
He'll yell to a different pipe when I get my grip of him . 
I'll twist the head of that swab till he'll have to walk back'ard to see where he's goin' . 
Whaduz he wave his arms for whaduz he yell like a dam' philly loo bird for ? What's him say , Charlie ? Jim heap sing , no can tell . 
Mebbee tinkum sing , come back chop chop . 
Oars out , men , give way . 
Now , son , put a little o' that Yale stingo in the stroke . 
In the crow's nest Jim still yelled and waved like one distraught , while the dory returned at a smart clip toward the schooner . 
Oh h , he murmured softly through his gritted teeth . 
Jess lemmee lay mee two hands afoul of you wunst , you gibbering , yellow philly loo bird , believe me , you'll dance . 
The hands were all in the bow , looking and pointing to the west . 
Jim slid down the ratlines , bubbling over with suppressed news . 
Before his feet had touched the deck Kitchell had kicked him into the stays again , fulminating blasphemies . 
Sing ! he shouted , as the Chinaman clambered away like a bewildered ape sing a little more . 
I would if I were you . 
Why don't you sing and wave , you dam' fool philly loo bird ? Yas , sah , answered the coolie . 
What you yell for ? Charlie , ask him whaffo him sing . 
I tink um ship , answered Charlie calmly , looking out over the starboard quarter . 
Ship ! Him velly sick , hazarded the Chinaman from the ratlines , adding a sentence in Chinese to Charlie . 
He says he tink um ship sick , all same ask um something ship velly sick . 
By this time the Captain , Wilbur , and all on board could plainly make out a sail some eight miles off the starboard bow . 
Even at that distance , and to eyes so inexperienced as those of Wilbur , it needed but a glance to know that something was wrong with her . 
It was not that she failed to ride the waves with even keel , it was not that her rigging was in disarray , nor that her sails were disordered . 
Her distance was too great to make out such details . 
I tink um velly sick . 
Oh , go to 'll , or go below and fetch up my glass hustle ! The glass was brought . 
Son , exclaimed Kitchell where is that man with the brains ? Son , come aloft here with me . 
The two clambered up the ratlines to the crow's nest . 
She's a bark , he muttered , iron built about seven hundred tons , I guess in distress . 
There's her ensign upside down at the mizz'nhead looks like Norway an' her distress signals on the spanker gaff . 
Take a blink at her , son what do you make her out ? Lord , she's ridin' high . 
Wilbur took the glass , catching the stranger after several clumsy attempts . 
She was , as Captain Kitchell had announced , a bark , and , to judge by her flag , evidently Norwegian . 
How she rolls ! muttered Wilbur . 
That's what I can't make out , answered Kitchell . 
A bark such as she ain't ought to roll thata way her ballast'd steady her . 
Well , where's the crew ? I don't see anybody on board . 
Oh , they're there right enough . 
Then they're pretty well concealed about the premises , turned Wilbur , as he passed the glass to the Captain . 
She does seem kinda empty , said the Captain in a moment , with a sudden show of interest that Wilbur failed to understand . 
An' where's her boats ? continued Kitchell . 
I don't just quite make out any boats at all . 
There was a long silence . 
Seems to be a sort of haze over her , observed Wilbur . 
I noticed that , air kinda quivers oily like . 
No boats , no boats an' I can't see anybody aboard . 
Suddenly Kitchell lowered the glass and turned to Wilbur . 
He was a different man . 
There was a new shine in his eyes , a wicked line appeared over the nose , the jaw grew salient , prognathous . 
Son , he exclaimed , gimleting Wilbur with his contracted eves I have reemarked as how you had brains . 
I kin fool the coolies , but I can't fool you . 
It looks to me as if that bark yonder was a derelict an' do you know what that means to us ? Chaw on it a turn . 
A derelict ? If there's a crew on board they're concealed from the public gaze an' where are the boats then ? I figger she's an abandoned derelict . 
It means salvage , do you savvy ? salvage , salvage . 
Do you figger what salvage on a seven hundred tonner would come to ? Well , just lemmee drop it into your think tank , an' lay to what I say . 
It's all the ways from fifty to seventy thousand dollars , whatever her cargo is call it sixty thousand thirty thou' apiece . 
Oh , I don't know ! he exclaimed , lapsing to landman's slang . 
Wha'd I say about a million to one on the unexpected at sea ? Thirty thousand ! exclaimed Wilbur , without thought as yet . 
Now y'r singin' songs , cried the Captain . 
Listen to me , son , he went on , rapidly shutting up the glass and thrusting it back in the case my name's Kitchell , and I'm hog right through . 
He emphasized the words with a leveled forefinger , his eyes flashing . 
H O G spells very truly yours , Alvinza Kitchell ninety nine swine an' me make a hundred swine . 
I'm a shoat with both feet in the trough , first , last , an' always . 
If that bark's abandoned , an' I says she is , she's ours . 
I'm out for anything that there's stuff in . 
I guess I'm more of a beach comber by nature than anything else . 
If she's abandoned she belongs to us . 
To 'll with this coolie game . 
Are you with me ? he held out his hand . 
The man was positively trembling from head to heel . 
Well , of course , I'm with you , Cap , exclaimed Wilbur , gripping Kitchell's hand . 
When there's thirty thousand to be had for the asking I guess I'm a 'na'chel bawn' beach comber myself . 
Now , nothing about this to the coolies . 
But how will you make out with your owners , the Six Companies ? Aren't you bound to bring the 'Bertha' in ? Rot my owners ! exclaimed Kitchell . 
I ain't a skipper of no oil boat any longer . 
He fixed the wallowing bark with glistening eyes . 
Gawd strike me , he murmured , ain't she a daisy ? It's a little Klondike . 
The two went down the ratlines , and Kitchell ordered a couple of the hands into the dory that had been rowing astern . 
Charlie was left on board , with directions to lay the schooner to . 
The dory flew over the water , Wilbur setting the stroke . 
In a few moments she was well up with the bark . 
Though a larger boat than the Bertha Millner , she was rolling in lamentable fashion , and every laboring heave showed her bottom incrusted with barnacles and seaweed . 
Her fore and main tops'ls and to'gallants'ls were set , as also were her lower stays'ls and royals . 
But the braces seemed to have parted , and the yards were swinging back and forth in their ties . 
The spanker was brailed up , and the spanker boom thrashed idly over the poop as the bark rolled and rolled and rolled . 
The mainmast was working in its shoe , the rigging and backstays sagged . 
An air of abandonment , of unspeakable loneliness , of abomination hung about her . 
Never had Wilbur seen anything more utterly alone . 
Within three lengths the Captain rose in his place and shouted Bark ahoy ! There was no answer . 
Thrice he repeated the call , and thrice the dismal thrashing of the spanker boom and the flapping of the sails was the only answer . 
Kitchell turned to Wilbur in triumph . 
I guess she's ours , he whispered . 
The dory was now well up to the derelict , and pretty soon a prolonged and vibratory hissing noise , strident , insistent , smote upon their ears . 
What's that ? exclaimed Wilbur , perplexed . 
The Captain shook his head , and just then , as the bark rolled almost to her scuppers in their direction , a glimpse of the deck was presented to their view . 
The captain smote a thigh . 
The coal he't up and generated gas , of course no fire , y'understand , just gas gas blew up the deck no way of stopping combustion . 
Naturally they had to cut for it . 
Lord , it's as plain as Billy b'damn . 
Kitchell watched his chance , and as the bark rolled down caught the mainyard brace hanging in a bight over the rail and swung himself to the deck . 
Look sharp ! he called , as Wilbur followed . 
It won't do for you to fall among them shark , son . 
Just look at the hundreds of 'em . 
There's a stiff on board , sure . 
Wilbur steadied himself on the swaying broken deck , choking against the reek of coal gas that hissed upward on every hand . 
The heat was almost like a furnace . 
Everything metal was intolerable to the touch . 
She's abandoned , sure , muttered the Captain . 
Look , and he pointed to the empty chocks on the house and the severed lashings . 
Oh , it's a haul , son it's a haul , an' you can lay to that . 
Now , then , cabin first , and he started aft . 
But it was impossible to go into the cabin . 
The moment the door was opened suffocating billows of gas rushed out and beat them back . 
On the third trial the Captain staggered out , almost overcome with its volume . 
Can't get in there for a while yet , he gasped , but I saw the stiff on the floor by the table looks like the old man . 
He's spit his false teeth out . 
I knew there was a stiff aboard . 
Then there's more than one , said Wilbur . 
See there ! From behind the wheel box in the stern protruded a hand and forearm in an oilskin sleeve . 
Wilbur ran up , peered over the little space between the wheel and the wheel box , and looked straight into a pair of eyes eyes that were alive . 
One left , anyhow , he muttered , looking over Wilbur's shoulder sailor man , though can't interfere with our salvage . 
The bark's derelict , right enough . 
So firmly was he wedged into the corner that Kitchell had to kick down the box before he could be reached . 
The boy spoke no word . 
Stupefied with the gas , he watched them with vacant eyes . 
Wilbur put a hand under the lad's arm and got him to his feet . 
He was a tall , well made fellow , with ruddy complexion and milk blue eyes , and was dressed , as if for heavy weather , in oilskins . 
Well , sonny , you've had a fine mess aboard here , said Kitchell . 
The boy he might have been two and twenty stared and frowned . 
Clean loco from the gas . 
Get him into the dory , son . 
I'll try this bloody cabin again . 
Kitchell turned back and descended from the poop , and Wilbur , his arm around the boy , followed . 
Kitchell was already out of hearing , and Wilbur was bracing himself upon the rolling deck , steadying the young fellow at his side , when the latter heaved a deep breath . 
His throat and breast swelled . 
Wilbur stared sharply , with a muttered exclamation My God , it's a girl ! he said . 
IV MORAN Meanwhile Charlie had brought the Bertha Millner up to within hailing distance of the bark , and had hove her to . 
Kitchell ordered Wilbur to return to the schooner and bring over a couple of axes . 
We'll have to knock holes all through the house , and break in the skylights and let the gas escape before we can do anything . 
Take the kid over and give him whiskey then come along back and bear a hand . 
Wilbur had considerable difficulty in getting into the dory from the deck of the plunging derelict with his dazed and almost helpless charge . 
To them it was evident she was but a for'mast hand . 
However , Wilbur examined her with extraordinary interest as she sat in the sternsheets , sullen , half defiant , half bewildered , and bereft of speech . 
She was not pretty she was too tall for that quite as tall as Wilbur himself , and her skeleton was too massive . 
Her face was red , and the glint of blue ice was in her eyes . 
Her eyelashes and eyebrows , as well as the almost imperceptible down that edged her cheek when she turned against the light , were blond almost to whiteness . 
What beauty she had was of the fine , hardy Norse type . 
Her hands were red and hard , and even beneath the coarse sleeve of the oilskin coat one could infer that the biceps and deltoids were large and powerful . 
One thing he saw clearly during the few moments of the dory's trip between bark and schooner the fact that his charge was a woman must be kept from Captain Kitchell . 
Wilbur knew his man by now . 
Kitchell and he would take the Lady Letty into the nearest port as soon as possible . 
The deception would have to be maintained only for a day or two . 
He left the girl on board the schooner and returned to the derelict with the axes . 
He found Kitchell on the house , just returned from a hasty survey of the prize . 
She's a daisy , vociferated the Captain , as Wilbur came aboard . 
I've been havin' a look 'round . 
See the date on the capst'n head ? Christiania is her hailin' port built there but it's her papers I'm after . 
Then we'll know where we're at . 
How's the kid ? She's all right , answered Wilbur , before he could collect his thoughts . 
But the Captain thought he had reference to the Bertha . 
I mean the kid we found in the wheel box . 
He doesn't count in our salvage . 
The bark's been abandoned as plain as paint . 
If I thought he stood in our way , and Kitchell's jaw grew salient . 
I'd shut him in the cabin with the old man a spell , till he'd copped off . 
Now then , son , first thing to do is to chop vents in this yere house . 
Hold up we can do better than that , said Wilbur , restraining Kitchell's fury of impatience . 
Slide the big skylight off it's loose already . 
A couple of the schooner's hands were ordered aboard the Lady Letty , and the skylight removed . 
At first the pour of gas was terrific , but by degrees it abated , and at the end of half an hour Kitchell could keep back no longer . 
Come on ! he cried , catching up an axe rot the difference . 
All the plundering instincts of the man were aroused and clamoring . 
He had become a very wolf within scent of its prey a veritable hyena nuzzling about its carrion . 
Lord ! he gasped , t' think that everything we see , everything we find , is ours ! Wilbur himself was not far behind him in eagerness . 
A flight of six steps , brass bound and bearing the double L of the bark's monogram , led them down into a sort of vestibule . 
From the vestibule a door opened directly into the main cabin . 
The cabin was some twenty feet long and unusually spacious . 
Fresh from his recollection of the grime and reek of the schooner , it struck Wilbur as particularly dainty . 
It was painted white with stripes of blue , gold and pea green . 
On either side three doors opened off into staterooms and private cabins , and with each roll of the derelict these doors banged like an irregular discharge of revolvers . 
In the centre was the dining table , covered with a red cloth , very much awry . 
On each side of the table were four arm chairs , screwed to the deck , one somewhat larger at the head . 
Overhead , in swinging racks , were glasses and decanters of whiskey and some kind of white wine . 
But for one feature the sight of the Letty's cabin was charming . 
However , on the floor by the sliding door in the forward bulkhead lay a body , face upward . 
The body was that of a middle aged , fine looking man , his head covered with the fur , ear lapped cap that Norwegians affect , even in the tropics . 
The eyes were wide open , the face discolored . 
In the last gasp of suffocation the set of false teeth had been forced half way out of his mouth , distorting the countenance with a hideous simian grin . 
Instantly Kitchell's eye was caught by the glint of the gold in which these teeth were set . 
Here's about to begin with , he exclaimed , and picking up the teeth , dropped them into his pocket with a wink at Wilbur . 
The body of the dead Captain was passed up through the skylight and slid out on the deck , and Wilbur and Kitchell turned their attention to what had been his stateroom . 
The Captain's room was the largest one of the six staterooms opening from the main cabin . 
Here we are ! exclaimed Kitchell as he and Wilbur entered . 
The old man's room , and no mistake . 
Besides the bunk , the stateroom was fitted up with a lounge of red plush screwed to the bulkhead . 
Look at 'em , just look at 'em , will you ! said Kitchell , running his fingers lovingly over the polished brass of the instruments . 
There's a thousand dollars of stuff right here . 
The chronometer's worth five hundred alone , Bennett Sons' own make . 
He turned to the secretary . 
Now ! he exclaimed with a long breath . 
What followed thrilled Wilbur with alternate excitement , curiosity , and a vivid sense of desecration and sacrilege . 
The Captain put the blade of the axe in the chink of the secretary's door and wrenched it free . 
It opened down to form a sort of desk , and disclosed an array of cubby holes and two small doors , both locked . 
These latter Kitchell smashed in with the axe head . 
Then he seated himself in the swivel chair and began to rifle their contents systematically , Wilbur leaning over his shoulder . 
The heat from the coal below them was almost unbearable . 
Twice during the examination of the bark's papers , Kitchell sent Wilbur out into the cabin for the whiskey decanter in the swinging racks . 
Here's the charter papers , said Kitchell , unfolding and spreading them out one by one and here's the clearing papers from Blyth in England . 
This yere's the insoorance , and here , this is rot that , nothin' but the articles for the crew no use to us . 
In a separate envelope , carefully sealed and bound , they came upon the Captain's private papers . 
of the North of England . 
The old man was his own boss , commented Kitchell . 
Below was written S. Moran Sternersen , ob . 
Old woman copped off , said Kitchell , so much the better for us no heirs to put in their gab an' hold hard steady all here's the will , s'help me . 
The Captain sucked his mustache , then furiously , striking the desk with his fist The bark's ours ! there was a certain ring of defiance in his voice . 
Damn the will ! I ain't so cock sure about the law , but I'll make sure . 
As how ? said Wilbur . 
Kitchell slung the will out of the open port into the sea . 
That's how , he remarked . 
I found the bark mine she is , an' mine she stays yours an' mine , that is . 
But Wilbur had not even time to thoroughly enjoy the satisfaction that the Captain's words conveyed , before an idea suddenly presented itself to him . 
Instantly the situation adjusted itself in his imagination . 
They had failed the father had died from gas the girl , at least for the moment , was crazed from its effects . 
But the bark had not been abandoned . 
The owner was on board . 
Kitchell was wrong she was no derelict not one penny could they gain by her salvage . 
For an instant a wave of bitterest disappointment passed over Wilbur as he saw his , dwindling to nothing . 
Then the instincts of habit reasserted themselves . 
The taxpayer in him was stronger than the freebooter , after all . 
He felt that it was his duty to see to it that the girl had her rights . 
But on second thought that would never do . 
There was a difference in the men here , and Wilbur appreciated it . 
Kitchell , the law abiding taxpayer , was a weakling in comparison with Kitchell , the free booter and beach comber in sight of his prize . 
Son , said the Captain , making a bundle of all the papers , take these over to my bunk and hide 'em under the donkey's breakfast . 
Stop a bit , he added , as Wilbur started away . 
We'll have to bury the old man . 
, beach combers , unlimited . 
What do you say , hey ? I only want to be sure that we've a right to the bark , answered Wilbur . 
Right to her ri hight to 'er , hiccoughed the Captain . 
Strike me blind , I'd like to see any one try'n take her away from Alvinza Kitchell now , and he thrust out his chin at Wilbur . 
Well , so much the better , then , said Wilbur , pocketing the papers . 
The pair ascended to the deck . 
The burial of Captain Sternersen was a dreadful business . 
Kitchell , far gone in whiskey , stood on the house issuing his orders , drinking from one of the decanters he had brought up with him . 
He had already rifled the dead man's pockets , and had even taken away the boots and fur lined cap . 
Cloths were cut from the spanker and rolled around the body . 
Then Kitchell ordered the peak halyards unrove and used as lashings to tie the canvas around the corpse . 
were still bound on the halyards . 
Leave 'em on , commanded Kitchell . 
Use 'm as a shrou' . 
All ready now , stan' by to let her go . 
Wilbur looked over at the schooner and noted with immense relief that Moran was not in sight . 
Suddenly an abrupt reaction took place in the Captain's addled brain . 
Can't bury 'um 'ithout 'is teeth , he gabbled solemnly . 
He laid back the canvas and replaced the set . 
Ole man'd ha'nt me 'f I kep' 's teeth . 
Strike ! look a' that , I put 'em in upside down . 
Oh , mee , but that's a good grind . 
Stan' by to heave ole Uncle Bill over ready , heave , an' away she goes . 
He ran to the side , waving his hat and looking over . 
Goo' by , ole Bill , by by . 
There you go , an' the signal o' distress roun' you , H. B. 'I'm in need of assistance . 
Lord , here comes the sharks look ! look ! look at um fight ! look at um takin' ole Bill ! I'm in need of assistance . 
I sh'd say you were , ole Bill . 
Wilbur looked once over the side in the churning , lashing water , then drew back , sick to vomiting . 
But in less than thirty seconds the water was quiet . 
Not a shark was in sight . 
Get over t' the 'Bertha' with those papers , son , ordered Kitchell I'll bide here and dig up sh' mor' loot . 
I'll gut this ole pill box from stern to stem post 'fore I'll leave . 
I won't leave a copper rivet in 'er , notta co'er rivet , dyhear ? he shouted , his face purple with unnecessary rage . 
Wilbur returned to the schooner with the two Chinamen , leaving Kitchell alone on the bark . 
He found the girl sitting by the rudderhead almost as he had left her , looking about her with vague , unseeing eyes . 
You name is Moran , isn't it ? he asked . 
Yes , she said , after a pause , then looked curiously at a bit of tarred rope on the deck . 
Nothing more could be got out of her . 
Wilbur talked to her at length , and tried to make her understand the situation , but it was evident she did not follow . 
However , at each mention of her name she would answer Yes , yes , I'm Moran . 
Wilbur turned away from her , biting his nether lip in perplexity . 
Now , what am I going to do ? he muttered . 
What a situation ! If I tell the Captain , it's all up with the girl . 
If he didn't kill her , he'd do worse might do both . 
If I don't tell him , there goes her birthright , , , and she alone in the world . 
It's begun to go already , he added , listening to the sounds that came from the bark . 
It's encouraging , and there's no one to talk to . 
Not much help in a Chinaman and a crazy girl in a man's oilskins . 
It's about the biggest situation you ever faced , Ross Wilbur , and you're all alone . 
What the devil are you going to do ? He acknowledged with considerable humiliation that he could not get the better of Kitchell , either physically or mentally . 
Kitchell was a more powerful man than he , and cleverer . 
The Captain was in his element now , and he was the commander . 
On shore it would have been vastly different . 
The city bred fellow , with a policeman always in call , would have known how to act . 
I simply can't stand by and see that hog plundering everything she's got . 
A hollow note boomed out , boomed , swelled , and grew rapidly to a roar . 
An icy chill stabbed the air . 
Then the squall swooped and struck , and the sky shut down over the troubled ocean like a pot lid over a boiling pot . 
The schooner's fore and main sheets , that had not been made fast , unrove at the first gust and began to slat wildly in the wind . 
The Chinamen cowered to the decks , grasping at cleats , stays , and masts . 
They were helpless paralyzed with fear . 
Charlie clung to a stay , one arm over his head , as though dodging a blow . 
He had heard of the suddenness of tropical squalls , but this had come with the abruptness of a scene shift at a play . 
The schooner veered broad on to the waves . 
It was the beginning of the end another roll to the leeward like the last and the Pacific would come aboard . 
He turned to see Moran , the girl of the Lady Letty , standing erect upon the quarterdeck , holding down the schooner's wheel . 
The confusion of that dreadful moment , that had paralyzed the crew's senses , had brought back hers . 
She was herself again , savage , splendid , dominant , superb , in her wrath at their weakness , their cowardice . 
And all the while she shouted aloud , furious with indignation , raging against the supineness of the Bertha's crew . 
There , she's coming up . 
The dory had been towing astern , and the seas combing over her had swamped her . 
Moran had been inspired to use the swamped boat as a sea anchor , fastening her to the schooner's bow instead of to the stern . 
The Bertha's bow , answering to the drag , veered around . 
The Bertha stood head to the seas , riding out the squall . 
It was a masterpiece of seamanship , conceived and executed in the very thick of peril , and it saved the schooner . 
But there was little time to think of themselves . 
On board the bark the sails were still set . 
The squall struck the Lady Letty squarely aback . 
She heeled over upon the instant then as the top hamper carried away with a crash , eased back a moment upon an even keel . 
But her cargo had shifted . 
Through the flying spray and scud and rain Wilbur had a momentary glimpse of Kitchell , hacking at the lanyards with his axe . 
Then the Lady Letty capsized , going over till her masts were flat with the water , and in another second rolled bottom up . 
For a moment her keel and red iron bottom were visible through the mist of driving spoon drift . 
Suddenly they sank from sight . 
Of the Lady Letty and the drunken beach combing Captain not a trace remained . 
Kitchell had gone down with his prize . 
The Bertha Millner's Chinese crew huddled forward , talking wildly , pointing and looking in a bewildered fashion over the sides . 
Wilbur and Moran were left alone on the open Pacific . 
V A Girl Captain When Wilbur came on deck the morning after the sinking of the bark he was surprised to find the schooner under way again . 
Wilbur and Charlie had berthed forward during that night Charlie with the hands , Wilbur in the Captain's hammock . 
The reason for this change of quarters had been found in a peremptory order from Moran during the dog watch the preceding evening . 
Wilbur met her again at breakfast . 
The redness of her face gave a startling effect to her pale blue eyes and sandy , heavy eyebrows , that easily lowered to a frown . 
She ate with her knife , and after pushing away her plate Wilbur observed that she drank half a tumbler of whiskey and water . 
The conversation between the two was tame enough . 
There was no common ground upon which they could meet . 
To her father's death no doubt an old matter even before her rescue she made no allusion . 
Her attitude toward Wilbur was one of defiance and suspicion . 
Only once did she relax How did you come to be aboard here with these rat eaters you're no sailor ? she said abruptly . 
Huh ! laughed Wilbur , mirthlessly huh ! I was shanghaied . 
Moran smote the table with a red fist , and shouted with sonorous , bell toned laughter . 
Shanghaied ? you ? Now , that is really good . 
And what are you going to do now ? What are you going to do ? Signal the first home bound vessel and be taken into Frisco . 
and the disaster to report . 
Well , I'm not keen on shark hunting myself , said Wilbur . 
But Moran showed no interest in his plans . 
However , they soon found that they were not to be permitted to signal . 
At noon the same day the schooner sighted a steamship's smoke on the horizon , and began to raise her rapidly . 
Moran immediately bound on the ensign , union down , and broke it out at the peak . 
Charlie , who was at the wheel , spoke a sentence in Chinese , and one of the hands drew his knife across the halyards and brought the distress signal to the deck . 
Moran turned upon Charlie with an oath , her brows knitted . 
No ! No ! sang Charlie , closing his eyes and wagging his head . 
No ! Too muchee los' time no can stop . 
The odd conclave assembled about Kitchell's table the club man , the half masculine girl in men's clothes , and the Chinaman . 
The conference was an angry one , Wilbur and Moran insisting that they be put aboard the steamship , Charlie refusing with calm obstinacy . 
I have um chin chin with China boys las' nigh' . 
China boy heap flaid , no can stop um steamship . 
Heap flaid too much talkee talkee . 
No stop go fish now go fish chop chop . 
Los' heap time go fish . 
I no savvy sail um boat , China boy no savvy sail um boat . 
I tink um you savvy . 
I tink um you savvy plenty heap much disa bay . 
Boss number two , him no savvy sail um boat , but him savvy plenty many all same . 
And we're to stop on board your dough dish and navigate her for you ? shouted Moran , her face blazing . 
Charlie nodded blandly I tink um yass . 
And when we get back to port , exclaimed Wilbur , you think , perhaps I we won't make it interesting for you ? Charlie smiled . 
I tink um Six Company heap rich . 
Well , get along , ordered Moran , as though the schooner was her property , and we'll talk it over . 
China boy like you heap pretty big , said Charlie to Moran , as he went out . 
You savvy sail um boat all light wanta you fo' captain . 
Moran and Wilbur were helpless for the present . 
They were but two against seven Chinamen . 
I'll captain her , concluded Moran , sullenly , at the end of their talk . 
You must act as mate , Mr. Wilbur . 
And don't get any mistaken idea into your head that , because I'm a young girl and alone , you are going to run things your way . 
I don't like funny business any better than Charlie . 
Look here , said Wilbur , complaining , don't think I'm altogether a villain . 
I think you're a ripping fine girl . 
You're different from any kind of girl I ever met , of course , but you , by jingo , you're you're splendid . 
There in the squall last evening , when you stood at the wheel , with your hair Oh , drop that ! said the girl , contemptuously , and went up on deck . 
Wilbur followed , scratching an ear . 
Charlie was called aft and their decision announced . 
Moran would navigate the Bertha Millner , Wilbur and she taking the watches . 
Charlie promised that he would answer for the obedience of the men . 
Their first concern now was to shape their course for Magdalena Bay . 
Moran and Wilbur looked over Kitchell's charts and log book , but the girl flung them aside disdainfully . 
He's been sailing by the dead reckoning , and his navigation is drivel . 
Why , a cabin boy would know better and , to end with , the chronometer is run down . 
I'll have to get Green'ich time by taking the altitude of a star to night , and figure out our longitude . 
Did you bring off our sextant ? Wilbur shook his head . 
Only the papers , he said . 
There's only an old ebony quadrant here , said Moran , but it will have to do . 
However , by daylight she had obtained the correct Greenwich time and worked the schooner's longitude . 
Two days passed , then a third . 
Moran set the schooner's course . 
She kept almost entirely to herself , and when not at the wheel or taking the sun or writing up the log , gloomed over the after rail into the schooner's wake . 
Wilbur knew not what to think of her . 
Never in his life had he met with any girl like this . 
She was suspicious of him distrusted him utterly , and openly ridiculed his abortive seamanship . 
Pretty she was not , but she soon began to have a certain amount of attraction for Wilbur . 
he admired her indomitable courage and self reliance , while her positive genius in the matters of seamanship and navigation filled him with speechless wonder . 
The girls he had been used to were clever only in their knowledge of the amenities of an afternoon call or the formalities of a paper german . 
A girl of two and twenty who could calculate longitude from the altitude of a star was outside his experience . 
The more he saw of her the more he knew himself to have been right in his first estimate . 
She drank whiskey after her meals , and when angry , which was often , swore like a buccaneer . 
As yet she was almost , as one might say , without sex savage , unconquered , untamed , glorying in her own independence , her sullen isolation . 
Her neck was thick , strong , and very white , her hands roughened and calloused . 
Charlie now took over entire charge of operations . 
For two days previous the Chinese hands had been getting out the deck tubs , tackles , gaffs , spades , and the other shark fishing gear that had been stowed forward . 
The day after their arrival in the bay was occupied by all hands in catching bait . 
This bait was a kind of rock fish , of a beautiful red gold color , and about the size of an ordinary cod . 
They bit readily enough , but out of every ten hooked three were taken off the lines by the sharks before they could be brought aboard . 
Turtle were everywhere floating gray green disks just under the surface . 
Sea birds in clouds clamored all day long about the shore and sand pits . 
At long intervals flying fish skittered over the water like skipping stones . 
Shoals of porpoises came in from outside , leaping clumsily along the edges of the kelp . 
It was Wilbur who caught the first shark on the second morning of the Bertha's advent in Magdalena Bay . 
Almost instantly a long moving shadow , just darker than the blue green mass of the water , identified itself at a little distance . 
Twice and three times the great man eater twelve feet from snout to tail tip , circled slowly about the bait , the flukes moving fan like through the water . 
Once he came up , touched the bait with his nose , and backed easily away . 
He disappeared , returned , and poised himself motionless in the schooner's shadow , feeling the water with his flukes . 
Moran was looking over Wilbur's shoulder . 
He's as good as caught , she muttered once let them get sight of meat , and Steady now ! The shark moved forward . 
Suddenly , with a long , easy roll , he turned completely upon his back . 
His white belly flashed like silver in the water the bait disappeared . 
You've got him ! shouted Moran . 
The rope slid through Wilbur's palms , burning the skin as the huge sea wolf sounded . 
The heavy , sullen wrenching from below twitched and swayed their bodies and threw them against each other . 
Her bare , cool arm was pressed close over his knuckles . 
Heave ! she cried , laughing with the excitement of the moment . 
Heave all ! she began the chant of sailors hauling at the ropes . 
Together , and bracing their feet against the schooner's rail , they fought out the fight with the great fish . 
In a swirl of lather the head and shoulders came above the surface , the flukes churning the water till it boiled like the wake of a screw steamship . 
But as soon as these great fins were clear of the surface the shark fell quiet and helpless . 
Charlie came up with the cutting in spade , and as the fish hung still over the side , cut him open from neck to belly with a single movement . 
Another Chinaman stood by with a long handled gaff , hooked out the purple black liver , brought it over the side , and dropped it into one of the deck tubs . 
The shark thrashed and writhed , his flukes quivering and his gills distended . 
Wilbur could not restrain an exclamation . 
Brutal business ! he muttered . 
Hoh ! exclaimed Moran , scornfully , cutting in is too good for him . 
Sailor folk are no friends of such carrion as that . 
Other lines were baited and dropped overboard , and the hands settled themselves to the real business of the expedition . 
There was no skill in the matter . 
The sharks bit ravenously , and soon swarmed about the schooner in hundreds . 
Hardly a half minute passed that one of the four Chinamen that were fishing did not signal a catch , and Charlie and Jim were kept busy with spade and gaff . 
By noon the deck tubs were full . 
The lines were hauled in , and the hands set the tubs in the sun to try out the oil . 
The deck tubs were emptied into the hogsheads and vats that stood in the waist of the Bertha , the tubs scoured , and the lines and bent shark hooks overhauled . 
In a short time Wilbur could not have said whether the day was Wednesday or Sunday . 
He soon tired of the unsportsmanlike work of killing the sluggish brutes , and turned shoreward to relieve the monotony of the succeeding days . 
He and Moran were left a good deal to their own devices . 
Charlie was the master of the men now . 
We'll have the dory out and go ashore . 
We can tumble a cask into her and get some water . 
The butt's three quarters empty . 
Let's see how it feels to be in Mexico . 
That's so Lower California is Mexico . 
But nothing could have exceeded the loneliness of that shore and backland , palpitating under the flogging of a tropical sun . 
Low hills of sand , covered with brush , stretched back from the shore . 
On the eastern horizon , leagues distant , blue masses of mountain striated with mirages swam in the scorching air . 
The sand was like fire to the touch . 
Far out in the bay the schooner hung motionless under bare sticks , resting apparently upon her inverted shadow only . 
And that was all the flat , heat ridden land , the sheen of the open Pacific , and the lonely schooner . 
Do you like it ? asked Moran quickly , facing him , her thumbs in her belt . 
It's good fun how about you ? It's no different than the only life I've known . 
I suppose you think it s a queer kind of life for a girl . 
Where's that pinch bar ? We'll get a couple more abalones for supper , and then put off . 
That was the only talk of moment they had during the afternoon . 
All the rest of their conversation had been of those things that immediately occupied their attention . 
They regained the schooner toward five o'clock , to find the Chinamen perplexed and mystified . 
No explanation was forthcoming , and Charlie gave them supper in preoccupied silence . 
As they were eating the abalones , which Moran had fried in batter , Charlie said Shark all gone ! No more catch um him all gone . 
Gone why ? No savvy , said Charlie . 
No likee , no likee . 
China boy tink um heap funny , too much heap funny . 
During all the next day not a shark was in sight , and though the crew fished assiduously till dark , they were rewarded by not so much as a bite . 
No one could offer any explanation . 
'Tis strange , said Moran . 
Never heard of shark leaving this feed before . 
And you can see with half an eye that the hands don't like the looks of it . 
Superstitious beggars ! they need to be clumped in the head . 
That same night Wilbur woke in his hammock on the fo'c'stle head about half past two . 
The moon was down , the sky one powder of stars . 
There was not a breath of wind . 
It was so still that he could hear some large fish playing and breaking off toward the shore . 
Then , without the least warning , he felt the schooner begin to lift under him . 
He rolled out of his hammock and stood on the deck . 
There could be no doubt of it the whole forepart was rising beneath him . 
He could see the bowsprit moving upward from star to star . 
Moran met him in the waist . 
What was that ? Are we grounding ? Has she struck ? No , no we're still fast to the kelp . 
Was it a tidal wave ? Nonsense . 
It wouldn't have handled us that way . 
Well , what was it ? Listen ! For God's sake keep quiet there forward ! Wilbur looked over the side into the water . 
The ripples were still chasing themselves away from the schooner . 
The stillness shut down again . 
There was not a sound . 
VI A SEA MYSTERY In spite of his best efforts at self control , Wilbur felt a slow , cold clutch at his heart . 
Again he peered over the side , down into the kelp thickened sea . 
Nothing not a breath of air was stirring . 
The gray light that flooded down from the stars showed not a break upon the surface of Magdalena Bay . 
On shore , nothing moved . 
Quiet there , forward , called Moran to the shrill voiced coolies . 
The succeeding stillness was profound . 
All on board listened intently . 
The water dripped like the ticking of a clock from the Bertha Millner's stern , which with the rising of the bow had sunk almost to the rail . 
There was no other sound . 
Strange , muttered Moran , her brows contracting . 
Charlie broke the silence with a wail No likee , no likee ! he cried at top voice . 
The man had gone suddenly green Wilbur could see the shine of his eyes distended like those of a harassed cat . 
As he , Moran , and Wilbur stood in the schooner's waist , staring at each other , the smell of punk came to their nostrils . 
Forward , the coolies were already burning joss sticks on the fo'castle head , kowtowing their foreheads to the deck . 
Moran went forward and kicked them to their feet and hurled their joss sticks into the sea . 
Feng shui ! Feng shui ! they exclaimed with bated breaths . 
The Feng shui no likee we . 
Low in the east the horizon began to blacken against the sky . 
But the rest of the night was without incident . 
After breakfast , the strangely assorted trio Charlie , Moran , and Wilbur held another conference in the cabin . 
It was decided to move the schooner to the other side of the bay . 
Feng shui in disa place , no likee we , announced Charlie . 
The shark were plentiful here and the fishing went forward again as before . 
Certain of these shark were hauled aboard , stunned by a blow on the nose , and their fins cut off . 
The Chinamen packed these fins away in separate kegs . 
Eventually they would be sent to China . 
Two or three days passed . 
The hands kept steadily at their work . 
Nothing more occurred to disturb the monotony of the scorching days and soundless nights the schooner sat as easily on the unbroken water as though built to the bottom . 
Soon the night watch was discontinued . 
During these days the three officers lived high . 
The shore was absolutely deserted , as well as the back country an unbroken wilderness of sand and sage . 
Half a dozen times , Wilbur , wearying of his inaction aboard the schooner , made the entire circuit of the bay from point to point . 
Standing on one of the latter projections and looking out to the west , the Pacific appeared as empty of life as the land . 
Never a keel cut those waters , never a sail broke the edge of the horizon , never a feather of smoke spotted the sky where it whitened to meet the sea . 
Everything was empty vast , unspeakably desolate palpitating with heat . 
Charlie began to complain that the shark were growing scarce again . 
I think bime by him go away , once a mo' . 
That same night , Wilbur , lying in his hammock , was awakened by a touch on his arm . 
He woke to see Moran beside him on the deck . 
Did you hear anything ? she said in a low voice , looking at him under her scowl . 
No ! no ! he exclaimed , getting up , reaching for his wicker sandals . 
Did you ? I thought so something . 
Did you feel anything ? I've been asleep , I haven't noticed anything . 
Is it beginning again ? The schooner lifted again , just now , very gently . 
I happened to be awake or I wouldn't have noticed it . 
They were talking in low voices , as is the custom of people speaking in the dark . 
There , what's that ? exclaimed Wilbur under his breath . 
A gentle vibration , barely perceptible , thrilled through the schooner . 
Under his hand , that was clasped upon the rail , Wilbur could feel a faint trembling in her frame . 
It stopped , began again , and died slowly away . 
Well , what the devil IS it ? he muttered impatiently , trying to master the returning creep of dread . 
Moran shook her head , biting her lip . 
It's beyond me , she said , frowning . 
Can you see anything ? The sky , sea , and land were unbroken reaches of solitude . 
There was no breath of wind . 
Don't hear anything , he whispered . 
Sh there she's trembling again . 
Once more a prolonged but faint quivering ran through the Bertha Millner from stem to stern , and from keel to masthead . 
There was a barely audible creaking of joints and panels . 
The oil in the deck tubs trembled . 
The vibration was so fine and rapid that it tickled the soles of Wilbur's feet as he stood on the deck . 
I'd give two fingers to know what it all means , murmured Moran in a low voice . 
I've been to sea for Then suddenly she cried aloud Steady all , she's lifting again ! The schooner heaved slowly under them , this time by the stern . 
God ! ejaculated Moran , her eyes blazing . 
This thing is The Bertha came suddenly down to an easy keel , rocking in that glassy sea as if in a tide rip . 
The deck was awash with oil . 
Far out in the bay the ripples widening from the schooner blurred the reflections of the stars . 
The Chinamen swarmed up the hatch way , voluble and shrill . 
Again the Bertha Millner lifted and sank , the tubs sliding on the deck , the masts quivering like reeds , the timbers groaning aloud with the strain . 
In the stern something cracked and smashed . 
Then the trouble died away , the ripples faded into the ocean , and the schooner settled to her keel , quite motionless . 
Look , said Moran , her face toward the Bertha's stern . 
The rudder is out of the gudgeons . 
It was true the Bertha Millner's helm was unshipped . 
There was no more sleep for any one on board that night . 
Wilbur tramped the quarterdeck , sick with a feeling he dared not put a name to . 
Moran sat by the wrecked rudder head , a useless pistol in her hand , swearing under her breath from time to time . 
Charlie appeared on the quarterdeck at intervals , looked at Wilbur and Moran with wide open eyes , and then took himself away . 
On the forward deck the coolies pasted strips of red paper inscribed with mottoes upon the mast , and filled the air with the reek of their joss sticks . 
If one could only SEE what it was , growled Moran between her clinched teeth . 
But this this damned heaving and trembling , it it's queer . 
That's it , that's it , said Wilbur quickly , facing her . 
What are we going to do , Moran ? STICK IT OUT ! she exclaimed , striking her knee with her fist . 
We can't leave the schooner I WON'T leave her . 
I'll stay by this dough dish as long as two planks in her hold together . 
Were you thinking of cutting away ? She fixed him with her frown . 
I'm not leaving the 'Bertha' till you do , he answered adding I'll stand by you , mate , until we Feel that ? said Moran , holding up a hand . 
A fine , quivering tremble was thrilling through every beam of the schooner , vibrating each rope like a harp string . 
It passed away but before either Wilbur or Moran could comment upon it recommenced , this time much more perceptibly . 
Charlie dashed aft , his queue flying . 
The quivering sensation increased so that their very teeth chattered with it . 
Below in the cabin they could hear small objects falling from the shelves and table . 
There was no sound nothing was in sight . 
There was only the frightened trembling of the little schooner and that long , slow heave and lift . 
Morning came , and breakfast was had in silence and grim perplexity . 
It was too late to think of getting away , now that the rudder was disabled . 
The Bertha Millner must bide where she was . 
And a little more of this dancing , exclaimed Moran , and we'll have the planks springing off the stern post . 
He said nothing his gravity had returned . 
Now in the glare of the tropical day , with the Bertha Millner sitting the sea as placidly as a brooding gull , he was Talleyrand again . 
I tinkum yas , he said vaguely . 
Well , I think we had better try and fix the rudder and put back to Frisco , said Moran . 
You're making no money this way . 
There are no shark to be caught . 
The crew are eating their heads off and not earning enough money to pay for their keep . 
What do you think ? I tinkum yas . 
Is that it ? I tinkum yas to molla . 
That's settled then , persisted Moran , surprised at his ready acquiescence we start home to morrow ? Charlie nodded . 
To molla , he said . 
Get over the side here , Jim , commanded Moran . 
Charlie , tell him what's wanted we can't work the pintle in from the deck . 
But Charlie shook his head . 
Him no likee go him plenty much flaid . 
Moran ripped out an oath . 
What do I care if he's afraid ! I want him to shove the pintle into the lower gudgeon . 
My God , she exclaimed , with immense contempt , what carrion ! I'd sooner work a boat with she monkeys . 
Mr. Wilbur , I shall have to ask you to go over . 
I thought I was captain here , but it all depends on whether these rats are afraid or not . 
Plenty many shark , expostulated Charlie . 
Him flaid shark come back , catchum chop chop . 
Put your ear to the water , called Moran from above sometimes you can hear their flukes . 
It took but a minute to adjust the pintle , and Wilbur regained the deck again , dripping and a little pale . 
He knew not what horrid form of death might have been lurking for him down below there underneath the kelp . 
As he started forward for dry clothes he was surprised to observe that Moran was smiling at him , holding out her hand . 
That was well done , she said , and thank you . 
I've seen older sailor men than you who wouldn't have taken the risk . 
Never before had she appeared more splendid in his eyes than at this moment . 
After changing his clothes in the fo'castle , he sat for a long time , his chin in his hands , very thoughtful . 
Then at length , as though voicing the conclusion of his reflections , said aloud , as he rose to his feet But , of course , THAT is out of the question . 
He remembered that they were going home on the next day . 
Within a fortnight he would be in San Francisco again a taxpayer , a police protected citizen once more . 
It had been good fun , after all , this three weeks' life on the Bertha Millner , a strange episode cut out from the normal circle of his conventional life . 
He told himself that now he would probably never know the explanation of that mystery . 
The day passed in preparations to put to sea again . 
The deck tubs and hogsheads were stowed below and the tackle cleared away . 
By evening all was ready they would be under way by daybreak the next morning . 
There was a possibility of their being forced to tow the schooner out by means of the dory , so light were the airs inside . 
Once beyond the heads , however , they were sure of a breeze . 
About ten o'clock that night , the same uncanny trembling ran through the schooner again , and about half an hour later she lifted gently once or twice . 
But after that she was undisturbed . 
Later on in the night or rather early in the morning Wilbur woke suddenly in his hammock without knowing why , and got up and stood listening . 
The Bertha Millner was absolutely quiet . 
The night was hot and still the new moon , canted over like a sinking galleon , was low over the horizon . 
Wilbur listened intently , for now at last he heard something . 
Between the schooner and the shore a gentle sound of splashing came to his ears , and an occasional crack as of oars in their locks . 
Suddenly Wilbur raised his voice in a great shout Boat ahoy ! There was no answer the noise of oars grew fainter . 
Moran came running out of her cabin , swinging into her coat as she ran . 
What is it what is it ? A boat , I think , right off the schooner here . 
Hark there did you hear the oars ? You're right call the hands , get the dory over , we'll follow that boat right up . 
Hello , forward there , Charlie , all hands , tumble out ! Then Wilbur and Moran caught themselves looking into each other's eyes . 
At once something perhaps the latent silence of the schooner told them there was to be no answer . 
The two ran for ward Moran swung herself into the fo'castle hatch , and without using the ladder dropped to the deck below . 
In an instant her voice came up the hatch The bunks are empty they're gone abandoned us . 
She came up the ladder again . 
Look , said Wilbur , as she regained the deck . 
The dory's gone they've taken it . 
It was our only boat we can't get ashore . 
Cowardly , superstitious rats , I should have expected this . 
They would be chopped in bits before they would stay longer on board this boat they and their Feng shui . 
When morning came the deserters could be made out camped on the shore , near to the beached dory . 
What their intentions were could not be conjectured . 
Ridden with all manner of nameless Oriental superstitions , it was evident that the Chinamen preferred any hazard of fortune to remaining longer upon the schooner . 
Well , can we get along without them ? said Wilbur . 
Can we two work the schooner back to port ourselves ? We'll try it on , anyhow , mate , said Moran we might get her into San Diego , anyhow . 
The Chinamen had left plenty of provisions on board , and Moran cooked breakfast . 
Fortunately , by eight o'clock a very light westerly breeze came up . 
Moran and Wilbur cast off the gaskets and set the fore and main sails . 
VII BEACH COMBERS Wilbur returned aft and joined Moran on the quarterdeck . 
She was already studying the stranger through the glass . 
That's a new build of boat to me , she muttered , giving Wilbur the glass . 
Wilbur looked long and carefully . 
Never but in the old prints had Wilbur seen such an extraordinary boat . 
She carried a single mast , which listed forward her lugsail was stretched upon dozens of bamboo yards she drew hardly any water . 
It acted partly as a propeller , partly as a rudder . 
They're heading for us , commented Wilbur as Moran took the glass again . 
Right , she answered adding upon the moment Huh ! more Chinamen the thing is alive with coolies she's a junk . 
Oh ! exclaimed Wilbur , recollecting some talk of Charlie's he had overheard . 
You know ? Yes these are real beach combers . 
I've heard of them along this coast heard our Chinamen speak of them . 
They beach that junk every night and camp on shore . 
Between whiles they fish for shrimp , and I've heard Kitchell tell how they make pearls by dropping bird shot into oysters . 
They are Kai gingh to a man , and , according to Kitchell , the wickedest breed of cats that ever cut teeth . 
The junk bore slowly down upon the schooner . 
In a few moments she had hove to alongside . 
But for the enormous red eyes upon her bow she was innocent of paint . 
She was grimed and shellacked with dirt and grease , and smelled abominably . 
Her crew were Chinamen but such Chinamen ! The coolies of the Bertha Millner were pampered and effete in comparison . 
The beach combers , thirteen in number , were a smaller class of men , their faces almost black with tan and dirt . 
Though they still wore the queue , their heads were not shaven , and mats and mops of stiff black hair fell over their eyes from under their broad , basket shaped hats . 
None of them wore more than two garments the jeans and the blouse . 
They were the lowest type of men Wilbur had ever seen . 
Their general expression was of simian cunning and a ferocity that was utterly devoid of courage . 
Aye ! exclaimed Moran between her teeth , if the devil were a shepherd , here are his sheep . 
You don't come aboard this schooner , my friends ! I want to live as long as I can , and die when I can't help it . 
Boat ahoy ! she called . 
An answer in Cantonese sing song came back from the junk , and the speaker gestured toward the outside ocean . 
Then a long parleying began . 
It was impossible to understand . 
Then at last they made out that there was question of a whale . 
That must be it , she said to Wilbur . 
That's what they mean by pointing to our masts and tackle . 
You see , they couldn't manage with that stick of theirs , and they say they'll give us a third of the loot . 
We'll do it , mate , and I'll tell you why . 
The wind has fallen , and they can tow us out . 
If it's a sperm whale they've found , there ought to be thirty or forty barrels of oil in him , let alone the blubber and bone . 
Oil is at now , and spermaceti will always bring . 
We'll take it on , mate . 
but we'll keep our eyes on the rats all the time . 
I don't want them aboard at all . 
Not three out of the dozen who aren't carrying those filthy little hatchets . 
Faugh ! she exclaimed , with a shudder of disgust . 
Such vipers ! What followed proved that Moran had guessed correctly . 
A rope was passed to the Bertha Millner , the junk put out its sweeps , and to a wailing , eldrich chanting the schooner was towed out of the bay . 
I wonder what Charlie and our China boys will think of this ? said Wilbur , looking shoreward , where the deserters could be seen gathered together in a silent , observing group . 
We're well shut of them , growled Moran , her thumbs in her belt . 
Only , now we'll never know what was the matter with the schooner these last few nights . 
Hah ! she exclaimed under her breath , her scowl thickening , sometimes I don't wonder the beasts cut . 
The dead whale was lying four miles out of the entrance of Magdalena Bay , and as the junk and the schooner drew near seemed like a huge black boat floating bottom up . 
Over it and upon it swarmed and clambered thousands of sea birds , while all around and below the water was thick with gorging sharks . 
A dreadful , strangling decay fouled all the air . 
The whale was a sperm whale , and fully twice the length of the Bertha Millner . 
The work of tricing him up occupied the beach combers throughout the entire day . 
It was out of the question to keep them off the schooner , and Wilbur and Moran were too wise to try . 
They swarmed the forward deck and rigging like a plague of unclean monkeys , climbing with an agility and nimbleness that made Wilbur sick to his stomach . 
They were unlike any Chinamen he had ever seen hideous to a degree that he had imagined impossible in a human being . 
On two occasions a fight developed , and in an instant the little hatchets were flashing like the flash of a snake's fangs . 
Toward the end of the day one of them returned to the junk , screaming like a stuck pig , a bit of his chin bitten off . 
And indeed the dead monster proved a veritable treasure trove . 
By the end of the day he had been triced up to the foremast , and all hands straining at the windlass had raised the mighty head out of the water . 
The Chinamen descended upon the smooth , black body , their bare feet sliding and slipping at every step . 
They held on by jabbing their knives into the hide as glacier climbers do their ice picks . 
The head yielded barrel after barrel of oil and a fair quantity of bone . 
The blubber was taken aboard the junk , minced up with hatchets , and run into casks . 
, and packed it into buckets , which were hauled up on the junk's deck . 
The work occupied some two or three days . 
During this time the Bertha Millner was keeled over to nearly twenty degrees by the weight of the dead monster . 
However , neither Wilbur nor Moran made protest . 
The Chinamen would do as they pleased that was said and signed . 
And they did not release the schooner until the whale had been emptied of oil and blubber , spermaceti and bone . 
At length , on the afternoon of the third day , the captain of the junk , whose name was Hoang , presented himself upon the quarter deck . 
He was naked to the waist , and his bare brown torso was gleaming with oil and sweat . 
His queue was coiled like a snake around his neck , his hatchet thrust into his belt . 
Well ? said Moran , coming up . 
Wilbur caught his breath as the two stood there facing each other , so sharp was the contrast . 
As he looked at the two , Wilbur asked himself where else but in California could such abrupt contrasts occur . 
All light , announced Hoang catchum all oil , catchum all bone , catchum all same plenty many . 
You help catchum , now you catchum pay . 
Sabe ? The three principals came to a settlement with unprecedented directness . 
There was no discussion over the matter . 
He called their attention to the discharge of his obligations , and hurried away to summon his men aboard and get the junk under way again . 
The beach combers returned to their junk , and Wilbur and Moran set about cutting the carcass of the whale adrift . 
They found it would be easier to cut away the hide from around the hooks and loops of the tackle than to unfasten the tackle itself . 
The knots are jammed hard as steel , declared Moran . 
Ready there , cut ! Moran set free the hook in the loop of black skin in a couple of strokes , but Wilbur was more clumsy the skin resisted . 
He struck at it sharply with the heavy spade the blade hit the iron hook , glanced off , and opened a large slit in the carcass below the head . 
A gush of entrails started from the slit , and Moran swore under her breath . 
It smells pretty good , whatever it is , he answered . 
Moran came up to where he stood , and looked at the slit he had made in the whale's carcass . 
Out of it was bulging some kind of dull white matter marbled with gray . 
It was a hard lump of irregular shape and about as big as a hogshead . 
Moran glanced over to the junk , some forty feet distant . 
The beach combers were hoisting the lug sail . 
Hoang was at the steering oar . 
Get that stuff aboard , she commanded quietly . 
That ! exclaimed Wilbur , pointing to the lump . 
Moran's blue eyes were beginning to gleam . 
Yes , and do it before the Chinamen see you . 
But but I don't understand . 
Moran stepped to the quarterdeck , unslung the hammock in which Wilbur slept , and tossed it to him . 
Reeve it up in that I'll pass you a line , and we'll haul it aboard . 
Godsend , those vermin yonder have got smells enough of their own without noticing this . 
Hurry , mate , I'll talk afterward . 
Wilbur went over the side , and standing as best he could upon the slippery carcass , dug out the lump and bound it up in the hammock . 
Hoh ! exclaimed Moran , with sudden exultation . 
There's a lot of it . 
That's the biggest lump yet , I'll be bound . 
Is that all there is , mate ? look carefully . 
Her voice had dropped to a whisper . 
Yes , yes that's all . 
Careful now when you haul up Hoang has got his eye on you , and so have the rest of them . 
What do you call it , anyhow ? Why are you so particular about it ? Is it worth anything ? I don't know perhaps . 
We'll have a look at it , anyway . 
Moran hauled the stuff aboard , and Wilbur followed . 
Whew ! he exclaimed with half closed eyes . 
It's like the story of Samson and the dead lion the sweet coming forth from the strong . 
The schooner seemed to swim in a bath of perfumed air the membrane of the nostrils fairly prinkled with the sensation . 
Moran unleashed the hammock , and going down upon one knee examined the lump attentively . 
It didn't seem possible , Wilbur heard her saying to herself but there can't be any mistake . 
It's the stuff , right enough . 
I've heard of such things , but this but this She rose to her feet , tossing back her hair . 
I can't stop to explain now , but it's big it's big . 
Mate , it's big as the Bank of England . 
Those beach combers are right on to the game , I'm afraid , said Wilbur . 
Look , they're watching us . 
This stuff would smell across the ocean . 
Rot the beach combers ! There's a bit of wind , thank God , and we can do four knots to their one , just let us get clear once . 
Moran dragged the hammock back into the cabin , and , returning upon deck , helped Wilbur to cut away the last tricing tackle . 
The schooner righted slowly to an even keel . 
Meanwhile the junk had set its one lug sail and its crew had run out the sweeps . 
Hoang took the steering sweep and worked the junk to a position right across the Bertha's bows , some fifty feet ahead . 
They're watching us , right enough , said Wilbur . 
Up your mains'l , ordered Moran . 
The pair set the fore and main sails with great difficulty . 
Moran took the wheel and Wilbur went forward to cast off the line by which the schooner had been tied up to one of the whale's flukes . 
Cut it ! cried the girl . 
Don't stop to cast off . 
There was a hail from the beach combers the port sweeps dipped and the junk bore up nearer . 
Hurry ! shouted Moran , don't mind them . 
Are we clear for'ard what's the trouble ? Something's holding her . 
The schooner listed slowly to starboard and settled by the head . 
All clear ! cried Wilbur . 
There's something wrong ! exclaimed Moran she's settling for'ard . 
Hoang hailed the schooner a second time . 
We're still settling , called Wilbur from the bows , what's the matter ? Matter that she's taking water , answered Moran wrathfully . 
She's started something below , what with all that lifting and dancing and tricing up . 
Wilbur ran back to the quarterdeck . 
This is a bad fix , he said to Moran . 
Those chaps are coming aboard again . 
They're on to something , and , of course , at just this moment she begins to leak . 
They are after that ambergris , said Moran between her teeth . 
Smelled it , of course the swine ! Ambergris ? The stuff we found in the whale . 
Well ? Well ! shouted Moran , exasperated . 
The two enormous red eyes of the junk loomed alongside and stared over into the Bertha's waist . 
Hoang and seven of the coolies swarmed aboard . 
What now ? shouted Moran , coming forward to meet them , her scowl knotting her flashing eyes together . 
Is this ship yours or mine ? We've done your dirty work for you . 
I want you clear of my deck . 
Wilbur stood at her side , uncertain what to do , but ready for anything she should attempt . 
I tink you catchum someting , smellum pretty big , said Hoang , his ferret glance twinkling about the schooner . 
I catchum nothing nothing but plenty bad stink , said Moran . 
No , you don't ! she exclaimed , putting herself in Hoang's way as he made for the cabin . 
The other beach combers came crowding up Wilbur even thought he saw one of them loosening his hatchet in his belt . 
This ship's mine , cried Moran , backing to the cabin door . 
Wilbur followed her , and the Chinamen closed down upon the pair . 
It's not much use , Moran , he muttered . 
They'll rush us in a minute . 
But the ambergris is mine is mine , she answered , never taking her eyes from the confronting coolies . 
After all , it was the beach combers who had found the whale . 
He could never remember afterward whether or no he said as much to Moran at the time . 
If he did , she had been deaf to it . 
A fury of wrath and desperation suddenly blazed in her blue eyes . 
Standing at her side , Wilbur could hear her teeth grinding upon each other . 
She was blind to all danger , animated only by a sense of injustice and imposition . 
Hoang uttered a sentence in Cantonese . 
One of the coolies jumped forward , and Moran's fist met him in the face and brought him to his knees . 
Then came the rush Wilbur had foreseen . 
He had just time to catch a sight of Moran at grapples with Hoang when a little hatchet glinted over his head . 
The beach combers were gone . 
Hello , what what what is it ? he asked , springing to his feet , his head swimming and smarting . 
We had a row , didn't we ? Did they hurt you ? Oh , I remember I got a cut over the head one of their hatchet men . 
Did they hurt you ? They got the loot , she growled . 
Filthy vermin ! And just to make everything pleasant , the schooner's sinking . 
VIII A RUN FOR LAND SINKING ! exclaimed Wilbur . 
Moran was already on her feet . 
We'll have to beach her , she cried , and we're six miles out . 
Up y'r jib , mate ! The two set the jib , flying jib , and staysails . 
The fore and main sails were already drawing , and under all the spread of her canvas the Bertha raced back toward the shore . 
Moran was at the wheel , her scowl thicker than ever , her eyes measuring the stretch of water that lay between the schooner and the shore . 
She'll never make it in God's world , she muttered as she listened to the wash of the water in the cabin under her feet . 
In the hold , empty barrels were afloat , knocking hollowly against each other . 
We're in a bad way , mate . 
What then ? The sharks ! Wilbur's teeth clicked sharply together . 
He could think of nothing to say . 
As the water gained between decks the schooner's speed dwindled , and at the same time as she approached the shore the wind , shut off by the land , fell away . 
By this time the ocean was not four inches below the stern rail . 
Two miles away was the nearest sand spit . 
Wilbur broke out a distress signal on the foremast , in the hope that Charlie and the deserters might send off the dory to their assistance . 
But the deserters were nowhere in sight . 
What became of the junk ? he demanded suddenly of Moran . 
She motioned to the westward with her head . 
When she begins to go , she said , she'll go with a rush . 
Jump pretty wide , or you'll get caught in the suction . 
The two had given up all hope . 
Moran held grimly to the wheel as a mere matter of form . 
Wilbur stood at her side , his clinched fists thrust into his pockets . 
The eyes of both were fixed on the yellow line of the distant beach . 
By and by Moran turned to him with an odd smile . 
We're a strange pair to die together , she said . 
Wilbur met her eyes an instant , but finding no reply , put his chin in the air as though he would have told her she might well say that . 
And yet , said Wilbur , these last few weeks here on board the schooner , we have been through a good deal together . 
I don't know , he went on clumsily , I don't know when I've been when I've had I've been happier than these last weeks . 
It is queer , isn't it ? I know , of course , what you'll say . 
I've said it to myself often of late . 
I belong to the city and to my life there , and you you belong to the ocean . 
I never knew a girl like you never knew a girl COULD be like you . 
You don't know how extraordinary it all seems to me . 
You have no idea how different you are to the kind of girl I've known . 
Imagine my kind of girl standing up before Hoang and those cutthroat beach combers with their knives and hatchets . 
Maybe it's because you are so unlike my kind of girl that that things are as they are with me . 
Moran's frown came back to her forehead . 
I don't like that kind of talk , she said I am not used to it , and I don't know how to take it . 
Believe me , she said with a half laugh , it's all wasted . 
I never could love a man . 
I'm not made for men . 
No , said Wilbur , nor for other women either . 
Nor for other women either . 
She seemed to him some Bradamante , some mythical Brunhilde , some Valkyrie of the legends , born out of season , lost and unfamiliar in this end of the century time . 
Her purity was the purity of primeval glaciers . 
He could easily see how to such a girl the love of a man would appear only in the light of a humiliation a degradation . 
By God , mate ! she exclaimed of a sudden . 
The barrels are keeping us up the empty barrels in the hold . 
Hoh ! we'll make land yet . 
The schooner had grounded upon the southern horn of the bay and lay easily on a spit of sand . 
They could not examine the nature of the leak until low water the next morning . 
Well , here we are , said Moran , her thumbs in her belt . 
What next ? We may be here for two days , we MAY be here for two years . 
It all depends upon how bad a hole she has . 
Have we 'put in for repairs , or have we been cast away ? Can't tell till to morrow morning . 
Half of the stores of the schooner were water soaked , but upon examination Wilbur found that enough remained intact to put them beyond all fear for the present . 
There's plenty of water up the creek , he said , and we can snare all the quail we want and then there's the fish and abalone . 
Even if the stores were gone we could make out very well . 
The schooner's cabin was full of water and Wilbur's hammock was gone , so the pair decided to camp on shore . 
In that torrid weather to sleep in the open air was a luxury . 
In great good spirits the two sat down to their first meal on land . 
Moran cooked a supper that , barring the absence of coffee , was delicious . 
The whiskey was had from aboard , and they pledged each other , standing up , in something over two stiff fingers . 
Moran , said Wilbur , you ought to have been born a man . 
At all events , mate , she said at all events , I'm not a girl . 
NO ! exclaimed Wilbur , as he filled his pipe . 
NO , you're just Moran , Moran of the 'Lady Letty . 
And I'll stay that , too , she said decisively . 
Never had an evening been more beautiful in Wilbur's eyes . 
There was not a breath of air . 
The stillness was so profound that the faint murmur of the blood behind the ear drums became an oppression . 
The ocean tiptoed toward the land with tiny rustling steps . 
The west was one gigantic stained window , the ocean floor a solid shimmer of opalescence . 
Behind them , sullen purples marked the horizon , hooded with mountain crests , and after a long while the moon shrugged a gleaming shoulder into view . 
Wilbur , dressed in Chinese jeans and blouse , with Chinese wicker sandals on his bare feet , sat with his back against the whale's skull , smoking quietly . 
For a long time there was no conversation then at last No , said Moran in a low voice . 
This is the life I'm made for . 
In six years I've not spent three consecutive weeks on land . 
, now that Eilert is dead , I've not a tie , not a relative , not even a friend , and I don't wish it . 
But the loneliness of the life , the solitude , said Wilbur , that's what I don't understand . 
Did it ever occur to you that the best happiness is the happiness that one shares ? Moran clasped a knee in both hands and looked out to sea . 
She never wore a hat , and the red light of the afterglow was turning her rye hued hair to saffron . 
Hoh ! she exclaimed , her heavy voice pitched even lower than usual . 
Who could understand or share any of my pleasures , or be happy when I'm happy ? And , besides , I'm happiest when I'm alone I don't want any one . 
But , hesitated Wilbur , one is not always alone . 
After all , you're a girl , and men , sailormen especially , are beasts when it's a question of a woman an unprotected woman . 
I'm stronger than most men , said Moran simply . 
If you , for instance , had been like some men , I should have fought you . 
It wouldn't have been the first time , she added , smoothing one huge braid between her palms . 
No , he said , with a long breath , I don't make it out . 
I knew you were out of my experience , but I begin to think now that you are out of even my imagination . 
You are right , you SHOULD keep to yourself . 
You should be alone your mate isn't made yet . 
You are splendid just as you are , while under his breath he added , his teeth clinching , and God ! but I love you . 
It was growing late , the stars were all out , the moon riding high . 
Moran yawned Mate , I think I'll turn in . 
We'll have to be at that schooner early in the morning , and I make no doubt she'll give us plenty to do . 
Wilbur hesitated to reply , waiting to take his cue from what next she should say . 
It's hot enough to sleep where we are , she added , without going aboard the 'Bertha , though we might have a couple of blankets off to lie on . 
This sand's as hard as a plank . 
Without answering , Wilbur showed her a couple of blanket rolls he had brought off while he was unloading part of the stores that afternoon . 
They took one apiece and spread them on the sand by the bleached whale's skull . 
Moran pulled off her boots and stretched herself upon her blanket with absolute unconcern , her hands clasped under her head . 
Wilbur rolled up his coat for a pillow and settled himself for the night with an assumed self possession . 
There was a long silence . 
I pulled the heel off my boot this morning , she said lazily , and I've been limping all day . 
I noticed it , answered Wilbur . 
Kitchell had a new pair aboard somewhere , if they're not spoiled by the water now . 
Yes ? she said indifferently we'll look them up in the morning . 
I wonder , she began again , staring up into the dark , if Charlie took that frying pan off with him when he went ? I don't know . 
It was the only thing we had to cook abalones in . 
Make me think to look into the galley to morrow . 
This ground's as hard as nails , for all your blankets . 
Well , good night , mate I'm going to sleep . 
I don't know , he said to himself . 
No , he said to himself decisively no , I guess I am a thoroughbred after all . 
It was only then that he went to sleep . 
When he awoke the sea was pink with the sunrise , and one of the bay heads was all distorted and stratified by a mirage . 
Moran was sitting a few paces from him , braiding her hair . 
I saw a jack rabbit . 
Seen anything of Charlie and the others ? They've camped on the other side of the bay . 
But look yonder , she added . 
The junk had come in overnight , and was about a mile and a half from shore . 
The deuce ! exclaimed Wilbur . 
What are they after ? Fresh water , I guess , said Moran , knotting the end of a braid . 
We'd better have breakfast in a hurry , and turn to on the 'Bertha . 
The tide is going out fast . 
While they breakfasted they kept an eye on the schooner , watching her sides and flanks as the water fell slowly away . 
Don't see anything very bad yet , said Wilbur . 
It's somewhere in her stern , remarked Moran . 
In an hour's time the Bertha Millner was high and dry , and they could examine her at their leisure . 
It was Moran who found the leak . 
Pshaw ! she exclaimed , with a half laugh , we can stick that up in half an hour . 
A single plank had started away from the stern post that was all . 
Otherwise the schooner was as sound as the day she left San Francisco . 
Moran and Wilbur had the damage repaired by noon , nailing the plank into its place and caulking the seams with lamp wick . 
Nor could their most careful search discover any further injury . 
We're ready to go , said Moran , so soon as she'll float . 
We can dig away around the bows here , make fast a line to that rock out yonder , and warp her off at next high tide . 
Hello ! who's this ? It was Charlie . 
While the two had been at work , he had come around the shore unobserved , and now stood at some little distance , smiling at them calmly . 
Well , what do you want ? cried Moran angrily . 
If you had your rights , my friend , you'd be keelhauled . 
I tink um velly hot day . 
You didn't come here to say that . 
What do you want ? I come hab talkee talk . 
We don't want to have any talkee talk with such vermin as you . 
Get out ! Charlie sat down on the beach and wiped his forehead . 
I come buy one piecee bacon . 
China boy no hab got . 
No hab got bacon ? he queried , lifting his eyebrows in surprise . 
Plenty but not for you . 
Charlie took a buckskin bag from his blouse and counted out a handful of silver and gold . 
I buy um nisi two piecee tobacco . 
Look here , said Wilbur deliberately don't you try to flim flam us , Charlie . 
We know you too well . 
You don't want bacon and you don't want tobacco . 
China boy heap plenty much sick . 
I tink um die pretty soon to molla . 
You catch um slop chest you gib me five , seven liver pill . 
How muchee ? A thousand dollars . 
Wilbur looked at her in surprise . 
He had expected a refusal . 
You no hab got liver pill ? inquired Charlie blandly . 
Moran turned her back on him . 
She and Wilbur conferred in a low voice . 
We'd better take them back , if we decently can , said Moran . 
The schooner is known , of course , in 'Frisco . 
I gib you ten dollah fo' ten liver pill , said Charlie . 
Will you give us a thousand dollars to set you down in San Francisco ? Charlie rose . 
I tell um China boy what you say 'bout liver pill . 
Bime by I come back . 
That means he'll take our offer back to his friends , said Wilbur , in a low voice . 
You best hurry chop chop , he called after Charlie we go home pretty soon ! He knows very well we can't get away before high tide to morrow , said Moran . 
Later on in the afternoon Moran and Wilbur saw a small boat put off from the junk and make a landing by the creek . 
The beach combers were taking on water . 
Wilbur and Moran could plainly make out the junk tied up to the kelp off shore . 
But toward one o'clock Wilbur was awakened by Moran shaking his arm . 
There's something wrong out there , she whispered something wrong with the junk . 
As he watched , it seemed as if a great wave caught her suddenly underfoot . 
Then the commotion ceased abruptly . 
The bay was quiet again . 
An hour passed , then two . 
The moon began to set . 
The coolies the deserters from the Bertha Millner were there . 
Ge' lup ! Ge' lup ! he said . 
Junk all smash ! Kai gingh come ashore . 
I tink him want catch um schooner . 
IX THE CAPTURE OF HOANG What smashed the junk ? What wrecked her ? demanded Moran . 
The deserting Chinamen huddled around Charlie , drawing close , as if finding comfort in the feel of each other's elbows . 
No can tell , answered Charlie . 
Him shake , then lif' up all the same as we . 
Bime by too much lif' up him smash all to Four piecee Chinamen dlown . 
Drown ! Did any of them drown ? exclaimed Moran . 
Four piecee dlown , reiterated Charlie calmly . 
One , thlee , five , nine , come asho' . 
Where are the ones that came ashore ? asked Wilbur . 
Charlie waved a hand back into the night . 
Him make um camp topside ole house . 
That old whaling camp , prompted Moran . 
Then to Wilbur You remember about a hundred yards north the creek ? Wilbur , Moran and Charlie had drawn off a little from the Bertha Millner's crew . 
The latter squatted in a line along the shore silent , reserved , looking vaguely seaward through the night . 
Moran spoke again , her scowl thickening What makes you think the beach combers want our schooner ? Him catch um schooner sure ! Him want um boat to go home . 
Let's put off to night right away , said Wilbur . 
Low tide , answered Moran and besides Charlie , did you see them close ? Were you near them ? No go muchee close . 
Did they have something with them , reeved up in a hammock something that smelled sweet ? Like a joss stick , for instance ? No savvy no can tell . 
Him try catch um schooner sure . 
Him velly bad China boy . 
See Yup China boy , velly bad . 
Savvy ? ! Ah ! the Tongs ? Yas . 
Him , and he pointed to the Bertha's crew , Sam Yup . 
All we Sam Yup nisi him , and he waved a hand toward the beach combers' camp him See Yup . 
Savvy ? It's a Tong row , said Wilbur . 
They're blood enemies , the See Yups and Sam Yups . 
Moran fell thoughtful , digging her boot heel into the sand , her thumbs hooked into her belt , her forehead gathered into a heavy frown . 
One thing , she said , at last we can't give up the schooner . 
They didn't leave that aboard when the junk sank . 
Look here , Charlie , she said , turning to the Chinaman . 
If the beach combers take the schooner the 'Bertha Millner' from us we'll be left to starve on this beach . 
How are we going to get home ? Are you going to let them do it ? Are you going to let them have our schooner ? I tink no can have . 
Look here , she went on , with sudden energy . 
There are only nine of them now , to our eight . 
We can fight those swine . 
If we jumped their camp and rushed them hard , believe me , we could run them into the sea . 
There's going to be a fight anyway . 
We can't let them have the schooner . 
It's starvation for us if we do . 
They mean to make a dash for the 'Bertha , and we've got to fight them off . 
Then cut back to the schooner , up our sails , and wait for the tide to float us off . 
We can do it I know we can . 
Mate , will you back me up ? Back you up ? You bet I'll back you up , Moran . 
We could fight them so much more to advantage from the deck of the schooner . 
Why not do that ? I tink bes' wait topside boat , assented Charlie . 
Yes why not , Moran ? Because , shouted the girl , they've got our loot . 
I don't propose to be plundered of , if I can help it . 
Wassa dat ? demanded Charlie . 
Now look here , Charlie . 
The beach combers have got the stuff . 
It's mine I'm going to have it back . 
Your men can fight you can fight yourself . 
We'll make it a business proposition . 
Help me to get that ambergris , and if we get it I'll give each one of the men , , and I'll give you , . 
You can take that up and be independent rich the rest of your life . 
You can chuck it and rot on this beach , for it's fight or lose the schooner you know that as well as I do . 
If you've got to fight anyhow , why not fight where it's going to pay the most ? Charlie hesitated , pursing his lips . 
How about this , Moran ? Wilbur broke forth now , unheard by Charlie . 
I've just been thinking have we got a right to this ambergris , after all ? The beach combers found the whale . 
How have we the right to take the ambergris away from them any more than the sperm and the oil and the bone ? It's theirs , if you come to that . 
I don't know as we've the right to it . 
They've taken it all , all ! And there's no bargain in the game at all now . 
Now the stuff belongs to the strongest of us , and I'm glad of it . 
They thought they were the strongest and now they're going to find out . 
We're dumped down here on this God forsaken sand , and there's no law and no policemen . 
The strongest of us are going to live and the weakest are going to die . 
I'm going to live and I'm going to have my loot , too , and I'm not going to split fine hairs with these robbers at this time of day . 
I'm going to have it all , and that's the law you're under in this case , my righteous friend ! She turned her back upon him , spinning around upon her heel . 
and Wilbur felt ashamed of himself and proud of her . 
I go talkee talk to China boy , said Charlie , coming up . 
For about five minutes the Chinamen conferred together , squatting in a circle on the beach . 
Moran paced up and down by the stranded dory . 
Wilbur leaned against the bleached whale skull , his hands in his pockets . 
Once he looked at his watch . 
It was nearly one o'clock . 
All light , said Charlie , coming up from the group at last him fight plenty . 
Now , exclaimed Moran , we've no time to waste . 
What arms have we got ? We've got the cutting in spades , said Wilbur there's five of them . 
They're nearly ten feet long , and the blades are as sharp as razors you couldn't want better pikes . 
That's an idea , returned Moran , evidently willing to forget her outburst of a moment before , perhaps already sorry for it . 
The party took stock of their weapons , and five huge cutting in spades , a heavy knife from the galley , and a revolver of doubtful effectiveness were divided among them . 
The crew took the spades , Charlie the knife , and Wilbur the revolver . 
Moran had her own knife , a haftless dirk , such as is affected by all Norwegians , whether landsmen or sailors . 
The moon was low and there was no great light , but the two beach combers caught the flash of the points of the spades . 
They halted and glanced narrowly and suspiciously at the group . 
They are up to the game there's no surprising them now . 
Talk to him , Charlie see what he wants . 
Moran , Wilbur , and Charlie came part of the way toward Hoang and his fellow , and paused some fifteen feet distant , and a long colloquy ensued . 
It soon became evident , however , that in reality Hoang wanted nothing of them , though with great earnestness he asserted his willingness to charter the Bertha Millner back to San Francisco . 
That's not his game at all , said Moran to Wilbur , in a low tone , her eyes never leaving those of the beach comber . 
He's pretty sure he could seize the 'Bertha' and never pay us a stiver . 
They've come down to spy on us , and they're doing it , too . 
There's no good trying to rush that camp now . 
They'll go back and tell the crew that we know their lay . 
It was still very dark . 
The moon , almost down , had flushed blood red , violently streaking the gray , smooth surface of the bay with her reflection . 
The tide was far out , rippling quietly along the reaches of wet sand . 
In the pauses of the conference the vast , muffling silence shut down with the abruptness of a valve suddenly closed . 
As the action of that night's events became more and more accelerated , Wilbur could not but notice the change in Moran . 
It was very evident that the old Norse fighting blood of her was all astir brutal , merciless , savage beyond all control . 
A sort of obsession seized upon her at the near approach of battle , a frenzy of action that was checked by nothing that was insensible to all restraint . 
At times it was impossible for him to make her hear him , or when she heard to understand what he was saying . 
It was evident that she could not see distinctly . 
Wilbur could no longer conceive of her as a woman of the days of civilization . 
She was lapsing back to the eighth century again to the Vikings , the sea wolves , the Berserkers . 
Now you're going to talk , she cried to Hoang , as the bound Chinaman sat upon the beach , leaning his back against the great skull . 
With the full sweep of her arm , her fist clinched till the knuckles whitened , Moran struck him in the face . 
Now will you talk ? she cried . 
Hoang wiped the blood from his face upon his shoulder and set his jaws . 
You will talk before I'm done with you , my friend don't get any wrong notions in your head about that , Moran continued , her teeth clinched . 
Charlie , she added , is there a file aboard the schooner ? I tink um yass , boss hab got file . 
In the tool chest , isn't it ? Charlie nodded , and Moran ordered it to be fetched . 
If they have a rifle or a shotgun with them , it's going to make a big difference for us . 
The other fellow escaped and has gone back to warn the rest . 
It's fight now , and no mistake . 
The Chinaman who had been sent aboard the schooner returned , carrying a long , rather coarse grained file . 
Moran took it from him . 
Now , she said , standing in front of Hoang , I'll give you one more chance . 
Tell him if he don't talk I'm going to make him very sick . 
Charlie put the questions in Chinese , pausing after each one . 
I gave you fair warning , shouted Moran angrily , pointing at him with the file . 
Will you answer ? Him no tell nuttin , observed Charlie . 
Fetch a cord here , commanded Moran . 
Some four inches of the file portruded from his lips . 
Moran took this end and drew it out between the beach comber's teeth , then pushed it back slowly . 
The hideous rasp of the operation turned Wilbur's blood cold within him . 
He looked away out to sea , down the beach anywhere , so that he might not see what was going forward . 
But the persistent grind and scrape still assaulted his ears . 
I I I'll go down the beach here a ways , he said quickly . 
I can't stand I'll keep watch to see if the beach combers come up . 
A few minutes later he heard Charlie hailing him . 
Chin chin heap plenty now , said he , with a grin , as Wilbur came up . 
Hoang sat on the sand in the midst of the circle . 
The file and coil of rope lay on the ground near by . 
The beach comber was talking in a high keyed sing song , but with a lisp . 
A shotgun had been on board , but had gone down with the sinking of the junk . 
They were all armed with their little hatchets . 
He thought two of the men carried knives as well . 
There was neither pistol nor revolver among them . 
It seems to me , said Wilbur , that we've got the long end . 
We catch um boss , too ! said Charlie , pointing to Hoang . 
And we are better armed , assented Moran . 
We've got the cutting in spades . 
And the revolver , if it will shoot any further than it will kick . 
They'll give us all the fight we want , declared Moran . 
Oh , him Kai gingh , him fight all same devil . 
Give the men brandy , Charlie , commanded Moran . 
We'll rush that camp right away . 
The demijohn of spirits was brought down from the Bertha and passed around , Wilbur and Moran drinking from the tin cup , the coolies from the bottle . 
Hoang was fettered and locked in the Bertha's cabin . 
Now , then , are we ready ? cried Moran . 
I tink all light , answered Charlie . 
The party set off down the beach . 
The moon had long since gone down , and the dawn was whitening over the eastern horizon . 
Landward , ragged blankets of morning mist lay close in the hollows here and there . 
The stars were still out . 
The surface of Magdalena Bay was smooth as a sheet of gray silk . 
Twenty minutes passed , half an hour , an hour . 
The party tramped steadily forward , Moran , Wilbur , and Charlie leading , the coolies close behind carrying the cutting in spades over their shoulders . 
Slowly and in silence they made the half circuit of the bay . 
The Bertha Millner was far behind them by now , a vague gray mass in the early morning light . 
Did you ever fight before ? Moran suddenly demanded of Charlie . 
One time I fight plenty much in San Flancisco in Washington stleet . 
At Charlie's suggestion the party made a circuit , describing a half moon , to landward , so as to come out upon the enemy sheltered by the sand dunes . 
Twenty minutes later they crossed the creek about four hundred yards from the shore . 
Here they spread out into a long line , and , keeping an interval of about fifteen feet between each of them , moved cautiously forward . 
A few moments later Charlie held up his hand , and the men halted . 
The coolies were halted , and dropping upon their hands and knees , the three leaders crawled to the top of the break . 
Sheltered by a couple of sage bushes and lying flat to the ground , Wilbur looked over and down upon the beach . 
The first object he made out was a crazy , roofless house , built of driftwood , the chinks plastered with 'dobe mud , the door fallen in . 
Beyond , on the beach , was a flat bottomed dingy , unpainted and foul with dirt . 
But all around the house the sand had been scooped and piled to form a low barricade , and behind this barricade Wilbur saw the beach combers . 
There were eight of them . 
They were alert and ready , their hatchets in their hands . 
The gaze of each of them was fixed directly upon the sand break which sheltered the Bertha Millner's officers and crew . 
They seemed to Wilbur to look him straight in the eye . 
They neither moved nor spoke . 
The silence and absolute lack of motion on the part of these small , half naked Chinamen , with their ape like muzzles and twinkling eyes , was ominous . 
There could be no longer any doubts that the beach combers had known of their enemies' movements and were perfectly aware of their presence behind the sand break . 
Moran rose to her feet , and Wilbur and Charlie followed her example . 
There's no use hiding , she said they know we're here . 
Charlie called up the crew . 
The two parties were ranged face to face . 
Over the eastern rim of the Pacific the blue whiteness of the early dawn was turning to a dull , roseate gold at the core of the sunrise . 
The headlands of Magdalena Bay stood black against the pale glow overhead , the greater stars still shone . 
The monotonous , faint ripple of the creek was the only sound . 
In all accounts he had ever read of such affairs , and in all ideas he had entertained on the subject , this had always been the case . 
But nothing of the kind happened that morning . 
Each contestant singled out his enemy , and made slowly for him with eyes fixed and weapon ready , regardless of the movements of his mates . 
See any rifles among them , Charlie ? shouted Moran , suddenly breaking the silence . 
No , I tink no hab got , answered Charlie . 
Wilbur took another step forward and cocked his revolver . 
One of the beach combers shouted out something in angry vernacular , and Charlie instantly responded . 
All this time the line had been slowly advancing upon the enemy , and Wilbur began to wonder how long that heartbreaking suspense was to continue . 
This was not at all what he had imagined . 
Still foot by foot the forward movement continued . 
The thing was degenerating into a farce the Bertha's Chinamen would not fight . 
Back there , under the shelter of the schooner , it was all very well to talk , and they had been very brave when they had all flung themselves upon Hoang . 
Here , face to face with the enemy , the sun striking off heliograph flashes from their knives and spades , it was a vastly different matter . 
The thing , to Wilbur's mind , should have been done suddenly if it was to be done at all . 
The best course now was to return to camp and try some other plan . 
The liquor that he had drunk before starting began suddenly to affect him , yet he knew that his head was yet clear . 
He remembered the cocked revolver in his hand , and , suddenly raising it , fired point blank at his man , not fifteen feet away . 
The hammer snapped on the nipple , but the cartridge did not explode . 
Wilbur turned to the Chinaman next him in line , exclaiming excitedly Here , say , have you got a knife something I can fight with ? This gun's no good . 
Shoot ! shoot ! shoot ! shouted Moran rapidly . 
Wilbur's revolver was a self cocker . 
He raised it again , drawing hard on the trigger as he did so . 
It roared and leaped in his hand , and a whiff of burned powder came to his nostrils . 
Wilbur suddenly realized that he held a knife , and that he was directly abreast the sand rampart . 
How he got the knife he could not tell , though he afterward distinctly remembered throwing away his revolver , loaded as it was . 
Wilbur had only time to think that he himself would no doubt be killed within the next few moments , when this latter halted abruptly , took a step forward , and . 
instead of striking downward , as Wilbur had anticipated , dropped upon his knee and struck with all his might at the calf of Wilbur's leg . 
It was only the thickness of his boots that saved Wilbur from being hamstrung where he stood . 
Again and again he tried to run in and grip the slim yellow body , but the other dodged and backed away , as hard to hold as any fish . 
The thing had not been a farce , after all . 
The hatchet man with whom Wilbur was fighting had been backing in this direction . 
He was close in when the fire began to leap from the one window now he could go no further . 
He turned to run sidewise between his enemy and the burning cabin . 
Wilbur thrust his foot sharply forward the beach comber tripped , staggered , and before he had reached the ground Wilbur had driven home the knife . 
His nerves , stretched tense as harp strings , were vibrating to a new tune . 
His blood spun through his veins till his ears roared with the rush of it . 
Never had he conceived of such savage exultation as that which mastered him at that instant . 
The knowledge that he could kill filled him with a sense of power that was veritably royal . 
The fight still was going forward . 
Wilbur could hear the sounds of it , though from where he stood all sight was shut off by the smoke of the burning house . 
As he turned about , knife in hand , debating what next he should do , a figure burst down upon him , shadowy and distorted through the haze . 
It was Moran , but Moran as Wilbur had never seen her before . 
Her eyes were blazing under her thick frown like fire under a bush . 
The fury of battle had exalted her to a sort of frenzy . 
She was beside herself with excitement . 
Her dirk uplifted , she rushed upon Wilbur , never once pausing in her chant . 
Wilbur shouted a warning to her as she came on , puzzled beyond words , startled back to a consciousness of himself again by this insensate attack . 
Moran ! Moran ! he called . 
But there was no skill in her fighting now . 
Wilbur dropped his own knife and gripped her right wrist . 
At first , Wilbur merely struggled to keep her from him to prevent her using her dirk . 
He tried not to hurt her . 
He ceased to see things in their proportion . 
His new found strength gloried in matching itself with another strength that was its equal . 
He fought with Moran not as he would fight with either woman or man , or with anything human , for the matter of that . 
He fought with her as against some impersonal force that it was incumbent upon him to conquer that it was imperative he should conquer if he wished to live . 
It was not Moran whom he fought it was her force , her determination , her will , her splendid independence , that he set himself to conquer . 
Already she had dropped or flung away the dirk , and their battle had become an issue of sheer physical strength between them . 
It was a question now as to who should master the other . 
Once he saw his chance , and planted his knuckles squarely between her eyes where her frown was knotted hard , hoping to stun her and end the fight once and for all . 
But the blow did not seem to affect her in the least . 
Then suddenly Moran gave up , relaxing in his grasp all in a second , and , to his great surprise , suddenly smiled . 
Ho ! mate , she exclaimed that was a tough one but I'm beaten you're stronger than I thought for . 
Wilbur released her and rose to his feet . 
Here , she continued , give me your hand . 
I'm as weak as a kitten . 
As Wilbur helped her to her feet , she put her hand to her forehead , where his knuckles had left their mark , and frowned at him , but not ill naturedly . 
Next time you do that , she said , use a rock or a belaying pin , or something that won't hurt not your fist , mate . 
She looked at him admiringly . 
XI A CHANGE IN LEADERS Well , exclaimed Wilbur at length , the excitement of the fight returning upon him . 
We have plenty to do yet . 
It was no longer Moran who took the initiative who was the leader . 
The brief fight upon the shore had changed all that . 
It was Wilbur who was now the master , it was Wilbur who was aggressive . 
He had known what it meant to kill . 
He was no longer afraid of anything , no longer hesitating . 
He had felt a sudden quadrupling of all his strength , moral and physical . 
Come on ! he cried to Moran where are the beach combers gone ? I'm going to get one more before the show is over . 
The two passed out of the zone of smoke , and reached the other side of the burning cabin just in time to see the last of the struggle . 
The whole affair had not taken more than a quarter of an hour . 
In the end the beach combers had been beaten . 
Four had fled into the waste of sand and sage that lay back of the shore , and had not been pursued . 
A fifth had been almost hamstrung by one of the Bertha's coolies , and had given himself up . 
A sixth , squealing and shrieking like a tiger cat , had been made prisoner and Wilbur himself had accounted for the seventh . 
As the two came up the coolies parted , and Wilbur saw one of them , his head propped upon a rolled up blouse , lying ominously still on the trampled sand . 
It's Charlie ! exclaimed Moran . 
Where's he hurt ? cried Wilbur to the group of coolies . 
Plenty soon bime by him sleep for good , I tink . 
There was little blood to be seen when Wilbur gently unwrapped the torn sleeve of a blouse that had been used as a bandage . 
Just under the armpit was the mark of the bullet a small puncture already closed , half hidden under a clot or two of blood . 
The coolie lay quite unconscious , his eyes wide open , drawing a faint , quick breath at irregular intervals . 
What do you think , mate ? asked Moran in a low voice . 
I think he's got it through the lungs , answered Wilbur , frowning in distress and perplexity . 
Poor old Charlie ! Moran went down on a knee , and put a finger on the slim , corded wrist , yellow as old ivory . 
Charlie , she called Charlie , here , don't you know me ? Wake up , old chap ! It's Moran . 
You're not hurt so very bad , are you ? Charlie's eyes closed and opened a couple of times . 
No can tell , he answered feebly hurt plenty big then he began to cough . 
Wilbur drew a sigh of relief . 
He's all right ! he exclaimed . 
Yes , I think he's all right , assented Moran . 
First thing to do now is to get him aboard the schooner , said Wilbur . 
We'll take him right across in the beach combers' dory here . 
By Jove ! he exclaimed on a sudden . 
The ambergris I'd forgotten all about it . 
In the hideous confusion of that morning's work , all thought of the loot had been forgotten . 
In two strides Wilbur had reached the beach combers' dory and was groping in the forward cuddy . 
Then he uttered a great shout of satisfaction . 
We've got it ! he cried to Moran , who had followed him . 
We've got it , Moran ! Over , . 
It's only Charlie I'm thinking about , answered Moran , hesitating . 
If it wasn't for that we'd be all right . 
I don't know whether we did right , after all , in jumping the camp here . 
I wouldn't like to feel that I'd got Charlie into our quarrel only to have him killed . 
Wilbur stared at this new Moran in no little amazement . 
And , besides , I didn't force him to anything . 
I we , that is took the same chances . 
If I hadn't done for my man there behind the cabin , he would have done for me . 
At all events , we carried our point . 
They took it from us , and we were strong enough to get it back . 
I'll send Jim and two of the other men across in the dory with Charlie . 
The rest of us will go around by the shore . 
We've got to have a chin chin with Hoang , if he don't get loose aboard there and fire the boat before we can get back . 
I don't propose taking these beach combers back to 'Frisco with us . 
What will we do with the two prisoners ? she asked . 
Let them go we've got their arms . 
The positions of the two were reversed . 
It was Wilbur who assumed control and direction of what went forward , Moran taking his advice and relying upon his judgment . 
Wilbur himself cut the ropes on the two prisoners , and bade them shift for themselves . 
The rest of the party returned to the Bertha Millner around the wide sweep of the beach . 
It was only by high noon , under the flogging of a merciless sun , that the entire crew of the little schooner once more reassembled under the shadow of her stranded hulk . 
However , Wilbur and Moran sought out Hoang , whom they found as they had left him bound upon the floor of the cabin . 
Now we have a talk savvy ? Wilbur told him as he loosed the ropes about his wrists and ankles . 
We got our loot back from you , old man , and we got one of your men into the bargain . 
You woke up the wrong crowd , Hoang , when you went up against this outfit . 
You're in a bad way , my friend . 
Now , continued Wilbur , with the profoundest gravity , I hope this will be a lesson to you . 
Don't try and get too much the next time . 
Just be content with what is yours by right , or what you are strong enough to keep , and don't try to fight with white people . 
Other coolies , I don't say . 
But when you try to get the better of white people you are out of your class . 
rubbed his chafed wrists , and fixed Wilbur with his tiny , twinkling eyes . 
What you do now ? We go home . 
I'm going to maroon you and your people here on this beach . 
You deserve that I should let you eat your fists by way of table board but I'm no such dirt as you . 
When our men left the schooner they brought off with them a good share of our provisions . 
I'll leave them here for you and there's plenty of turtle and abalone to be had for the catching . 
Now what have you got to say ? Hoang was silent . 
His queue had become unbound for half its length , and he plaited it anew , winking his eyes thoughtfully . 
Well , what do you say ? said Moran . 
I lose face , answered Hoang at length , calmly . 
You lose face ? What do you mean ? I lose face , he insisted then added I heap 'shamed . 
You fightee my China boy , you catchee me . 
My boy no mo' hab me fo' boss savvy ? I go back , him no likee me . 
Mebbe all same killee me . 
I lose face no mo' boss . 
What a herd of wild cattle ! muttered Wilbur . 
There's something in what he says , don't you think , mate ? observed Moran , bringing a braid over each shoulder and stroking it according to her habit . 
We'll ask Jim about it , decided Wilbur . 
But Jim at once confirmed Hoang's statement . 
Oh , Kai gingh killum no good boss , fo' sure , he declared . 
Don't you think , mate , said Moran , we'd better take him up to 'Frisco with us ? We've had enough fighting and killing . 
So it was arranged that the defeated beach comber , the whipped buccaneer , who had lost face and no longer dared look his men in the eye , should be taken aboard . 
By four o'clock next morning Wilbur had the hands at work digging the sand from around the Bertha Millner's bow . 
At high tide , all hands straining upon the warp , the schooner was floated off , and under touch of the lightest airs drew almost imperceptibly away from the land . 
They were quite an hour crawling out to the heads of the bay . 
But here the breeze was freshening . 
The vast , heat scourged hoop of yellow sand , the still , smooth shield of indigo water , with its beds of kelp , had become insensibly dear to him . 
It was all familiar , friendly , and hospitable . 
Hardly an acre of that sweep of beach that did not hold the impress of his foot . 
For a moment Wilbur and Moran looked back without speaking . 
They stood on the quarter deck in the shadow of the main sail , shut off from the sight of the schooner's crew , and for the instant quite alone . 
Well , Moran , it's good by to the old places , isn't it ? said Wilbur at length . 
Yes , she said , her deep voice pitched even deeper than usual . 
Mate , great things have happened there . 
Oh , what did that amount to ? she said , with an impatient movement of her head . 
Wilbur shut his hand down over hers as it gripped a spoke of the wheel . 
Moran , I knew that long since , he said . 
Such a month as this has been ! Why , I feel as though I had only begun to live since I began to love you . 
Something has happened here and she put both her hands over her breast . 
I'm all different here , mate . 
It's all you inside here all you ! And it hurts , and I'm proud that it does hurt . 
But you must be good to me now . 
The deep voice trembled a little . 
Good to me , mate , and true to me , mate , because I've only you , and all of me is yours . 
Mate , be good to me , and always be kind to me . 
I'm not Moran any more . 
I'm not proud and strong and independent , and I don't want to be lonely . 
I want you I want you always with me . 
I'm just a woman now , dear just a woman that loves you with a heart she's just found . 
Wilbur could find no words to answer . 
All words seemed futile and inadequate to him . 
He took her in his arms , and she laid her cheek against his for a moment , then took his head between her hands and kissed him . 
The Bertha Millner held steadily to her northward course , Moran keeping her well in toward the land . 
Wilbur maintained a lookout from the crow's nest in the hope of sighting some white cruiser or battleship on her way south for target practice . 
Hoang did not readily recover his loss of face . 
Moran had taken the lump of ambergris from out Kitchell's old hammock , and had slung the hammock itself in the schooner's waist , and Charlie was made as comfortable as possible therein . 
They could do but little for him , however and he was taken from time to time with spells of coughing that racked him with a dreadful agony . 
She ran to him , and found him standing in the waist by Charlie's hammock . 
The Chinaman was dying , and knew it . 
Planty muchee solly , he said China boy , him heap flaid of Feng shui . 
When Feng shui no likee , we then must go chop chop . 
Plenty much solly I leave um schooner that night solly plenty savvy ? Of course we savvy , Charlie , said Moran . 
You weren't afraid when it came to fighting . 
I die pletty soon , said Charlie calmly . 
You say you gib me fifteen hundled dollah ? Yes , yes that was our promise . 
What do you want done with it , Charlie ? I want plenty fine funeral in Chinatown in San Francisco . 
Oh , heap fine ! You buy um first chop coffin savvy ? Silver heap much costum big money . 
You gib my money to Hop Sing Association , topside Ming Yen temple . 
You savvy Hop Sing ? one Six Companies . 
Tellum Hop Sing I want funeral four piecee horse . 
You no flogettee horse ? he added apprehensively . 
No , I'll not forget the horses Charlie . 
Want six piecee band musicians China music heap plenty gong . 
You no flogettee ? Two piecee priest , all dressum white savvy ? You mus' buyum coffin yo'self . 
Velly fine coffin , heap much silver , an' four piecee horse . 
You catchum fireclacker one , five , seven hundled fireclacker , makeum big noise an' loast pig , an' plenty lice an' China blandy . 
Heap fine funeral , costum fifteen hundled dollah . 
I be bury all same Mandarin all same Little Pete . 
You plomise , sure ? I promise you , Charlie . 
You shall have a funeral finer than little Pete's . 
Charlie nodded his head contentedly , drawing a breath of satisfaction . 
Bimeby Hop Sing sendum body back China . 
He closed his eyes and lay for a long time , worn out with the effort of speaking , as if asleep . 
Suddenly he opened his eyes wide . 
You no flogettee horse ? Four horses , Charlie . 
I promise you , Charlie , said Wilbur . 
Now , answered Charlie now I die . 
And the low caste Cantonese coolie , with all the dignity and calmness of a Cicero , composed himself for death . 
An hour later Wilbur and Moran knew that he was dead . 
Yet , though they had never left the hammock , they could not have told at just what moment he died . 
It was the outpost of civilization . 
They were getting back to the world again . 
Within an hour's ride of the hotel were San Diego , railroads , newspapers , and policemen . 
Just off the hotel , however , Wilbur could discern the gleaming white hull of a United States man of war . 
With the glass he could make her out to be one of the monitors the Monterey in all probability . 
After advising with Moran , it was decided to put in to land . 
The report as to the castaways could be made to the Monterey , and Charlie's body forwarded to his Tong in San Francisco . 
In two hours' time the schooner was well up , and Wilbur stood by Moran's side at the wheel . 
watching and studying the familiar aspect of Coronado Beach . 
It's a great winter resort , he told her . 
I was down here with a party two years ago . 
You see that big sort of round wing , Moran , all full of windows ? That's the dining room . 
And there's the bathhouse and the bowling alley . 
See the people on the beach , and the girls in white duck skirts and look up there by the veranda let me take the glass yes , there's a tally ho coach . 
The Petrel had been in the harbor but a few days , and on this evening a dance was given at the hotel in honor of her arrival . 
It was to be a cotillon , and Nat Ridgeway was going to lead with Josie Herrick . 
There had been a coaching party to Tia Juana that day , and Miss Herrick had returned to the hotel only in time to dress . 
The cotillon was a great success . 
The figures had gone round the hall once . 
The first set was out again , and as Ridgeway guided Miss Herrick by the rovers she looked over the array of shirt fronts , searching for Jerry Haight . 
Do you see Mr. Haight ? she asked of Ridgeway . 
I wanted to favor him this break . 
I owe him two already , and he'll never forgive me if I overlook him now . 
Jerry Haight had gone to the hotel office for a few moments' rest and a cigarette , and was nowhere in sight . 
Oh ! she cried , Mr. Haight , you've missed your chance I've been looking for you . 
But Jerry did not hear he seemed very excited . 
Here , I say , Haight ! exclaimed Ridgeway , who was near by , you can't break up my figure like that . 
Gi' me a call there on the bugle , said Haight rapidly to the cornetist . 
Anything to make 'em keep quiet a moment . 
The cornetist sounded a couple of notes , and the cotillon paused in the very act of the break . 
The shuffling of feet grew still , and the conversation ceased . 
A diamond brooch had been found , no doubt , or some supper announcement was to be made . 
Wilbur found ! Ross Wilbur come back from the dead ! Ross Wilbur , hunted for and bootlessly traced from Buenos Ayres in the south to the Aleutian Islands in the north . 
Ross Wilbur , the puzzle of every detective bureau on the coast the subject of a thousand theories whose name had figured in the scareheads of every newspaper west of the Mississippi . 
His hair was long , and hanging over his eyes . 
A thick , uncared for beard concealed the mouth and chin . 
He was dressed in a Chinaman's blouse and jeans the latter thrust into slashed and tattered boots . 
There was no more cotillon that night . 
You people are going down there for target practice , aren't you ? he said , turning to one of the Monterey's officers in the crowd about him . 
Yes ? Well , you'll find the coolies there , on the beach , waiting for you . 
All but one , he added , grimly . 
We marooned six of them , but the seventh didn't need to be marooned . 
This isn't Magdalena Bay , you know . 
And for the first time Wilbur felt a genuine pang of disappointment and regret as he realized that it was not . 
Half an hour later , Ridgeway drew him aside . 
I say , Ross , let's get out of here . 
You can't stand here talking all night . 
Jerry and you and I will go up to my rooms , and we can talk there in peace . 
I'll order up three quarts of fizz , and Oh , rot your fizz ! declared Wilbur . 
If you love me , give me Christian tobacco . 
As they were going out of the ballroom , Wilbur caught sight of Josie Herrick , and , breaking away from the others , ran over to her . 
Oh ! she cried , breathless . 
To think and to think of your coming back after all ! No , I don't realize it I can't . 
It will take me until morning to find out that you've really come back . 
I just know now that I'm happier than I ever was in my life before . 
Oh ! she cried , do I need to tell you how glad I am ? It's just too splendid for words . 
I've got your card yet . 
Remember the one you wrote for me at the tea a facsimile of it was published in all the papers . 
You are going to be a hero when you get back to San Francisco . 
All but one portion of it . 
He could not make up his mind to speak to them these society fellows , clubmen and city bred of Moran . 
How he was going to order his life henceforward his life , that he felt to be void of interest without her he did not know . 
That was a question for later consideration . 
We'll give another cotillon ! exclaimed Ridgeway , up in the city give it for you , Ross , and you'll lead . 
It'll be the event of the season ! Wilbur uttered an exclamation of contempt . 
I've done with that sort of foolery , he answered . 
Nonsense why , think , we'll have it in your honor . 
Every smart girl in town will come , and you'll be the lion of You don't seem to understand ! cried Wilbur impatiently . 
That sort of life , if it don't do anything else , knocks a big bit of seriousness into you . 
You fellows make me sick , he went on vehemently . 
As though there wasn't anything else to do but lead cotillons and get up new figures ! Well , what do you propose to do ? asked Nat Ridgeway . 
Where are you going now back to Magdalena Bay ? No. Where , then ? Wilbur smote the table with his fist . 
I've got a crack little schooner out in the bay here , and I've got a hundred thousand dollars' worth of loot aboard of her . 
I've tried beach combing for a while , and now I'll try filibustering . 
It may be a crazy idea , but it's better than dancing . 
I'd rather lead an expedition than a german , and you can chew on that , Nathaniel Ridgeway . 
You're a different sort than when you went away , Ross , said Jerry . 
Right you are , answered Wilbur . 
But I will venture a prophecy , continued Jerry , looking keenly at him . 
Ross , you are a born and bred city man . 
It's in the blood of you and the bones of you . 
I'll give you three years for this new notion of yours to wear itself out . 
You think just now you're going to spend the rest of your life as an amateur buccaneer . 
Did you ever kill a man , Jerry ? asked Wilbur . 
It was long after midnight . 
We'll ring for a boy , said Ridgeway , and get you a room . 
I can fix you out with clothes enough in the morning Wilbur stared in some surprise , and then said Why , I've got the schooner to look after . 
I can't leave those coolies alone all night . 
You don't mean to say you're going on board at this time in the morning ? Of course ! Why but but you'll catch your death of cold . 
Wilbur stared at Ridgeway , then nodded helplessly , and , scratching his head , said , half aloud No , what's the use I can't make 'em understand . 
Good night I'll see you in the morning . 
We'll all come out and visit you on your yacht , Ridgeway called after him but Wilbur did not hear . 
In answer to Wilbur's whistle , Jim came in with the dory and took him off to the schooner . 
Moran met him as he came over the side . 
I took the watch myself to night and let the boy turn in , she said . 
How is it ashore , mate ? We've come back to the world of little things , Moran , said Wilbur . 
But we'll pull out of here in the morning and get back to the places where things are real . 
And that's a good hearing , mate . 
Let's get up here on the quarterdeck , added Wilbur . 
I've something to propose to you . 
Moran laid an arm across his shoulder , and the two walked aft . 
Suddenly , however , he broke off . 
But no ! he exclaimed . 
You don't understand , Moran . 
How can you you're foreign born . 
It's no affair of yours ! Mate ! mate ! cried Moran , her hands upon his shoulders . 
It's you who don't understand don't understand me . 
Don't you know can't you see ? Your people are mine now . 
I'm happy only in your happiness . 
You were right the best happiness is the happiness one shares . 
And your sorrows belong to me , just as I belong to you , dear . 
Your enemies are mine , and your quarrels are my quarrels . 
She drew his head quickly toward her and kissed him . 
In the morning the two had made up their minds to a certain vague course of action . 
To get away anywhere was their one aim . 
They would get up to San Francisco , dispose of their loot , outfit the Bertha Millner as a filibuster , and put to sea again . 
They had discussed the advisability of rounding the Horn in so small a ship as the Bertha Millner , but Moran had settled that at once . 
I've got to know her pretty well , she told Wilbur . 
She's sound as a nut . 
Only let's get away from this place . 
But toward ten o'clock on the morning after their arrival off Coronado , and just as they were preparing to get under way , Hoang touched Wilbur's elbow . 
Seeum lil one piece smoke boat him come chop chop . 
In fact , a little steam launch was rapidly approaching the schooner . 
In another instant she was alongside . 
Jerry , Nat Ridgeway , Josie Herrick , and an elderly woman , whom Wilbur barely knew as Miss Herrick's married sister , were aboard . 
We've come off to see your yacht ! cried Miss Herrick to Wilbur as the launch bumped along the schooner's counter . 
The men were in white flannels and smart yachting suits . 
Can we come aboard ? she repeated . 
Good Lord ! he muttered . 
Oh , come along , he added , desperately . 
The party came over the side . 
Oh , my ! said Miss Herrick blankly , stopping short . 
Miss Herrick's sister had not come aboard . 
Oh , my ! repeated Miss Herrick in dismay , half closing her eyes . 
To think of what you must have been through ! I thought you had some kind of a yacht . 
I had no idea it would be like this . 
And as she spoke , Moran came suddenly upon the group from behind the foresail , and paused in abrupt surprise , her thumbs in her belt . 
She still wore men's clothes and was booted to the knee . 
The heavy blue woolen shirt was open at the throat , the sleeves rolled half way up her large white arms . 
In her belt she carried her haftless Scandinavian dirk . 
She was hatless as ever , and her heavy , fragrant cables of rye hued hair fell over her shoulders and breast to far below her belt . 
Miss Herrick started sharply , and Moran turned an inquiring glance upon Wilbur . 
Wilbur took his resolution in both hands . 
Miss Herrick , he said , this is Moran Moran Sternersen . 
Moran took a step forward , holding out her hand . 
Josie , all bewildered , put her tight gloved fingers into the calloused palm , looking up nervously into Moran's face . 
I'm sure , she said feebly , almost breathlessly , I I'm sure I'm very pleased to meet Miss Sternersen . 
It was long before the picture left Wilbur's imagination . 
XIII MORAN STERNERSEN San Francisco once more ! For two days the Bertha Millner had been beating up the coast , fighting her way against northerly winds , butting into head seas . 
It was cold at times thick fogs cloaked all the world of water . 
In this berth the schooner was still three or four miles from the city and the water front . 
For days , weeks even , Wilbur had looked eagerly forward to this return to his home . 
What attractions could the city offer him ? What amusements ? what excitements ? He had been flung off the smoothly spinning circumference of well ordered life out into the void . 
City life , his old life , had no charm for him now . 
Wilbur honestly believed that he was changed to his heart's core . 
They would have the whole round world as their playground they held the earth and the great seas in fief there was no one to let or to hinder . 
They two belonged to each other . 
We've got to pay the men their prize money then as soon as we get our own money in hand we can talk about overhauling and outfitting the 'Bertha . 
Moran refused to accompany him ashore and into the Lifeboat Station . 
Roofed houses were an object of suspicion to her . 
Wilbur could see she felt imprisoned , confined . 
When he had pointed out the Palace Hotel to her a vast gray cube in the distance , overtopping the surrounding roofs she had sworn under her breath . 
Wilbur found the captain of the Lifeboat Station in the act of sitting down to a dinner of boiled beef and cabbage . 
He was a strongly built well looking man , with the air more of a soldier than a sailor . 
He had already been studying the schooner through his front window and had recognized her , and at once asked Wilbur news of Captain Kitchell . 
made Wilbur royally welcome , insisted upon his dining with him , and himself called up Langley Michaels as soon as the meal was over . 
It was he who offered the only plausible solution of the mystery of the lifting and shaking of the schooner and the wrecking of the junk . 
Though Wilbur was not satisfied with Hodgson's explanation , it was the only one he ever heard . 
When he had spoken of the matter , Hodgson had nodded his head . 
Sulphur bottoms , he said . 
When Wilbur's business was done , and he was making ready to return to the schooner , Hodgson remarked suddenly Hear you've got a strapping fine girl aboard with you . 
Where did you fall in with her ? and he winked and grinned . 
Wilbur started as though struck , and took himself hurriedly away but the man's words had touched off in his brain a veritable mine of conjecture . 
Moran in Magdalena Bay was consistent , congruous , and fitted into her environment . 
Hurry as he would , the schooner could not be put to sea again within a fortnight . 
Even though he elected to live aboard in the meanwhile , the very business of her preparation would call him to the city again and again . 
Moran could not be kept a secret . 
As it was , all the world knew of her by now . 
Like most men , Wilbur had to walk when he was thinking hard . 
He sent the dory back to the schooner with word to Moran that he would take a walk around the beach and return in an hour or two . 
He set off along the shore in the direction of Fort Mason , the old red brick fort at the entrance to the Golden Gate . 
At this point in the Presidio Government reservation the land is solitary . 
In front of him ran the narrow channel of the Golden Gate to his right was the bay and the city at his left the open Pacific . 
He saw himself the day of his advent aboard the Bertha in his top hat and frock coat saw himself later braking down at the windlass , the Petrel within hailing distance . 
A sudden explosion of cold wind , striking down blanket wise and bewildering from out the west , made Wilbur look up quickly . 
The gray sky seemed scudding along close overhead . 
The bay , the narrow channel of the Golden Gate , the outside ocean , were all whitening with crests of waves . 
At his feet the huge green ground swells thundered to the attack of the fort's granite foundations . 
Through the Gate , the bay seemed rushing out to the Pacific . 
A bewildered gull shot by , tacking and slanting against the gusts that would drive it out to sea . 
Evidently the storm was not far off . 
Well , she said , looking up . 
China boy him want go asho' plenty big , seeum flen up Chinatown in um city . 
Shore leave , is it ? said Moran . 
You deserted once before without even saying good by and my hand in the fire , you'll come back this time dotty with opium . 
We'll have men aboard here in a few days . 
Can go ? inquired Jim suavely . 
Report our arrival to your Six Companies . 
Hoang rowed Jim and the coolies ashore , and then returned to the schooner with the dory and streamed her astern . 
As he passed the cabin door on his way forward , Moran hailed him . 
I thought you went ashore ? she cried . 
Heap flaid , he answered . 
Him other boy go up Chinatown him tell Sam Yup I tink Sam Yup alla same killee me . 
I no leaveum ship two , thlee day bimeby I go Olegon . 
I cook plenty fine standum watch for you . 
He understood pigeon English better than Jim , and spoke it even better than Charlie had done . 
Moran turned back to her log , and Hoang went forward . 
Standing on the forward deck , he looked after the Bertha's coolies until they disappeared behind a row of pine trees on the Presidio Reservation , going cityward . 
Wilbur was nowhere in sight . 
For a longtime Hoang studied the Lifeboat Station narrowly , while he made a great show of coiling a length of rope . 
The station was just out of hailing distance . 
The whole shore and back land thereabout was deserted the edge of the city was four miles distant . 
Hoang returned to the forecastle hatch and went below , groping under his bunk in his ditty box . 
Well , what is it ? exclaimed Moran a moment later , as the beach comber entered the cabin , and shut the door behind him . 
Hoang did not answer but she did not need to repeat the question . 
In an instant Moran knew very well what he had come for . 
God ! she exclaimed under her breath , springing to her feet . 
Why didn't we think of this ! Hoang slipped his knife from the sleeve of his blouse . 
For an instant the old imperiousness , the old savage pride and anger , leaped again in Moran's breast then died away forever . 
She was no longer the same Moran of that first fight on board the schooner , when the beach combers had plundered her of her loot . 
Only a few weeks ago , and she would have fought with Hoang without hesitation and without mercy would have wrenched a leg from the table and brained him where he stood . 
She did not fight she had no thought of fighting . 
Instinctively she cried aloud , Mate mate ! Oh , mate , where are you ? Help me ! and Hoang's knife nailed the words within her throat . 
The loot was in a brass bound chest under one of the cabin's bunks , stowed in two gunny bags . 
Hoang drew them out , knotted the two together , and , slinging them over his shoulder , regained the deck . 
The dory was still tugging at the line astern . 
Hoang dropped the sacks in the boat , swung himself over the side , and rowed calmly toward the station's wharf . 
If any notion of putting to sea with the schooner had entered the obscure , perverted cunning of his mind , he had almost instantly rejected it . 
Chinatown was his aim once there and under the protection of his Tong , Hoang knew that he was safe . 
He knew the hiding places that the See Yup Association provided for its members hiding places whose very existence was unknown to the police of the White Devil . 
No one interrupted no one even noticed his passage to the station . 
At best , it was nothing more than a coolie carrying a couple of gunny sacks across his shoulder . 
Two hours later , Hoang was lost in San Francisco's Chinatown . 
At the sight of the schooner sweeping out to sea , Wilbur was for an instant smitten rigid . 
What had happened ? Where was Moran ? Why was there nobody on board ? A swift , sharp sense of some unnamed calamity leaped suddenly at his throat . 
Then he was aware of a crattering of hoofs along the road that led to the fort . 
Hodgson threw himself from one of the horses that were used in handling the surf boat , and ran to him hatless and panting . 
My God ! he shouted . 
I carried her up on deck there was nobody else aboard . 
I carried her up and laid her on the deck and she died there . 
I brought her up on deck I left her on the schooner on the deck she was stabbed in the throat and then came after you to tell you . 
I'll go back ! exclaimed Hodgson . 
We'll have the surf boat out and get after her we'll bring the body back ! No , no ! cried Wilbur , it's better this way . 
I want it so ! I can't stay ! cried the other again . 
If the patrol should sig storm coming up , and I've got to be at my station . 
Wilbur did not answer he was watching the schooner . 
I can't stay ! cried the other again . 
If the patrol should signal I can't stop here , I must be on duty . 
Wilbur had climbed to the top of the old fort . 
Erect upon its granite ledge he stood , and watched and waited . 
Not once did the Bertha Millner falter in her race . 
Like an unbitted horse , all restraint shaken off , she ran free toward the ocean as to her pasture land . 
She passed out of his life as she had come into it alone , upon a derelict ship , abandoned to the sea . 
Good by , Moran ! shouted Wilbur as she passed . 
The little schooner lessened in the distance became a shadow in mist and flying spray a shadow moving upon the face of the great waste of water . 
