The Moon Pool A. MERRITT Foreword The publication of the following narrative of Dr . 
Walter T. Goodwin has been authorized by the Executive Council of the International Association of Science . 
First To end officially what is beginning to be called the Throckmartin Mystery and to kill the innuendo and scan dalous suspicions which have threatened to stain the repu tations of Dr . 
David Throckmartin , his youthful wife , and equally youthful associate Dr . 
Second Because the Executive Council have concluded that Dr . 
For these reasons the Executive Council commissioned Mr. A. Merritt to transcribe into form to be readily under stood by the layman the stenographic notes of Dr . 
Good win's own report to the Council , supplemented by further oral reminiscences and comments by Dr . 
Goodwin this transcription , edited and censored by the Executive Coun cil of the Association , forms the contents of this book . 
Himself a member of the Council , Dr . 
Walter T. Goodwin , Ph . 
D. , F. R. G. S. etc . 
, is without cavil the foremost of American botanists , an observer of international reputa tion and the author of several epochal treaties upon his chosen branch of science . 
The day before I had reached Port Moresby and had seen my specimens safely stored on board the Southern Queen . 
As I sat on the upper deck I thought , with homesick mind , of the long leagues between me and Melbourne , and the longer ones between Melbourne and New York . 
It was one of Papua's yellow mornings when she shows herself in her sombrest , most baleful mood . 
The sky was smouldering ochre . 
Over the island brooded a spirit sullen , alien , implacable , filled with the threat of latent , malefic forces waiting to be unleashed . 
It seemed an emanation out of the untamed , sinister heart of Papua herself sinister even when she smiles . 
And now and then , on the wind , came a breath from virgin jungles , laden with unfamiliar odours , mysterious and menacing . 
It is on such mornings that Papua whispers to you of her immemorial ancientness and of her power . 
And , as every white man must , I fought against her spell . 
While I struggled I saw a tall figure striding down the pier a Kapa Kapa boy followed swinging a new valise . 
There was something familiar about the tall man . 
As he reached the gangplank he looked up straight into my eyes , stared for a moment , then waved his hand . 
And now I knew him . 
Coincidentally with my recognition came a shock of sur prise , definitely unpleasant . 
By virtue of her father's training a wonderful assistant , by virtue of her own sweet , sound heart a I use the word in its olden sense lover . 
With his equally youthful associate Dr . 
He had carried with him unusually complete equipment for the work he had expected to do and which , he hoped , would be his monument . 
What then had brought Throckmartin to Port Moresby , and what was that change I had sensed in him ? Hurrying down to the lower deck I found him with the purser . 
As I spoke he turned , thrust out to me an eager hand and then I saw what was that difference that had so moved me . 
He knew , of course by my silence and involun tary shrinking the shock my closer look had given me . 
His eyes filled he turned brusquely from the purser , hesitated then hurried off to his stateroom . 
'E looks rather queer eh ? said the purser . 
Know 'im well , sir ? Seems to 'ave given you quite a start . 
I made some reply and went slowly up to my chair . 
There I sat , composed my mind and tried to define what it was that had shaken me so . 
Now it came to me . 
His always questioning brain had stamped its vigor upon his face . 
I had hoped , and within the hope was an inexplicable shrinking that I would meet Throckmartin at lunch . 
He did not come down , and I was sensible of de liverance within my disappointment . 
All that afternoon I lounged about uneasily but still he kept to his cabin and within me was no strength to summon him . 
Nor did he appear at dinner . 
Dusk and night fell swiftly . 
I was warm and went back to my deck chair . 
The Southern Queen was rolling to a dis quieting swell and I had the place to myself . 
Over the heavens was a canopy of cloud , glowing faintly and testifying to the moon riding behind it . 
Suddenly the deck door opened and through it came Throckmartin . 
He paused uncertainly , looked up at the sky with a curiously eager , intent gaze , hesitated , then closed the door behind him . 
He made his way to me . 
Throck , I said , wasting no time in preliminaries . 
What's wrong ? Can I help you ? I felt his body grow tense . 
I'm going to Melbourne , Goodwin , he answered . 
I need a few things need them urgently . 
And more men white men He stopped abruptly rose from his chair , gazed intently toward the north . 
Far , far away the moon had broken through the clouds . 
Almost on the hori zon , you could see the faint luminescence of it upon the smooth sea . 
The distant patch of light quivered and shook . 
The clouds thickened again and it was gone . 
The ship raced on southward , swiftly . 
Throckmartin dropped into his chair . 
He lighted a cigar ette with a hand that trembled then turned to me with abrupt resolution . 
If ever man needed it , I do . 
The moon had again broken through the clouds , and this time much nearer . 
Not a mile away was the patch of light that it threw upon the waves . 
Back of it , to the rim of the sea was a lane of moonlight a gigantic gleaming ser pent racing over the edge of the world straight and surely toward the ship . 
Throckmartin stiffened to it as a pointer does to a hidden covey . 
To me from him pulsed a thrill of horror but horror tinged with an unfamiliar , an infernal joy . 
It came to me and passed away leaving me trembling with its shock of bitter sweet . 
He bent forward , all his soul in his eyes . 
The moon path swept closer , closer still . 
It was now less than half a mile away . 
From it the ship fled almost as though pursued . 
Down upon it , swift and straight , a radiant torrent cleaving the waves , raced the moon stream . 
Good God ! breathed Throckmartin , and if ever the words were a prayer and an invocation they were . 
And then , for the first time I saw IT ! The moon path stretched to the horizon and was bor dered by darkness . 
It drew first into sight as a deeper glow within the light . 
On and on it swept toward us an opalescent mistiness that sped with the suggestion of some winged creature in arrowed flight . 
Now it beat up against that barrier as a bird against the bars of its cage . 
It whirled with shimmering plumes , with swirls of lacy light , with spirals of living vapour . 
It held within it odd , un familiar gleams as of shifting mother of pearl . 
Coruscations and glittering atoms drifted through it as though it drew them from the rays that bathed it . 
Nearer and nearer it came , borne on the sparkling waves , and ever thinner shrank the protecting wall of shadow be tween it and us . 
Within the mistiness was a core , a nucleus of intenser light veined , opaline , effulgent , intensely alive . 
And above it , tangled in the plumes and spirals that throbbed and whirled were seven glowing lights . 
Through all the incessant but strangely ordered move ment of the THING these lights held firm and steady . 
They were seven like seven little moons . 
The tinkling music was louder still . 
It pierced the ears with a shower of tiny lances it made the heart beat jubi lantly and checked it dolorously . 
It closed the throat with a throb of rapture and gripped it tight with the hand of infinite sorrow ! Came to me now a murmuring cry , stilling the crystal notes . 
It was articulate but as though from something utterly foreign to this world . 
The ear took the cry and trans lated with conscious labour into the sounds of earth . 
And even as it compassed , the brain shrank from it irresistibly , and simultaneously it seemed reached toward it with irre sistible eagerness . 
Throckmartin strode toward the front of the deck , straight toward the vision , now but a few yards away from the stern . 
His face had lost all human semblance . 
And then swiftly the moon path faded ! The clouds swept over the sky as though a hand had drawn them to gether . 
Up from the south came a roaring squall . 
Throckmartin passed an arm around me . 
It is as I thought , he said . 
In his voice was a new note the calm certainty that has swept aside a waiting terror of the unknown . 
Now I know ! Come with me to my cabin , old friend . 
For now that you too have seen I can tell you he hesitated what it was you saw , he ended . 
As we passed through the door we met the ship's first officer . 
Throckmartin composed his face into at least a sem blance of normality . 
Going to have much of a storm ? he asked . 
Yes , said the mate . 
Probably all the way to Mel bourne . 
Throckmartin straightened as though with a new thought . 
He gripped the officer's sleeve eagerly . 
You mean at least cloudy weather for he hesitated for the next three nights , say ? And for three more , replied the mate . 
Thank God ! cried Throckmartin , and I think I never heard such relief and hope as was in his voice . 
Thank God ? he repeated . 
Thank what d'ye mean ? But Throckmartin was moving onward to his cabin . 
The first officer stopped me . 
Your friend , he said , is he ill ? The sea ! I answered hurriedly . 
He's not used to it . 
I am going to look after him . 
Doubt and disbelief were plain in the seaman's eyes but I hurried on . 
For I knew now that Throckmartin was ill indeed but with a sickness the ship's doctor nor any other could heal . 
CHAPTER II Dead ! All Dead ! HE WAS SITTING , face in hands , on the side of his berth as I entered . 
He had taken off his coat . 
What was it ? What are you flying from , man ? Where is your wife and Stanton ? Dead ! he replied monotonously . 
Dead ! All dead ! Then as I recoiled from him All dead . 
Edith , Stanton , Thora dead or worse . 
And Edith in the Moon Pool with them drawn by what you saw on the moon path that has put its brand upon me and follows me ! He ripped open his shirt . 
Look at this , he said . 
Around his chest , above his heart , the skin was white as pearl . 
This whiteness was sharply defined against the healthy tint of the body . 
It circled him with an even cincture about two inches wide . 
Burn it ! he said , and offered me his cigarette . 
I pressed the glowing end of the cigarette into the ribbon of white flesh . 
He did not flinch nor was there odour of burning nor , as I drew the little cylinder away , any mark upon the whiteness . 
Feel it ! he commanded again . 
I placed my fingers upon the band . 
It was cold like frozen marble . 
He drew his shirt around him . 
Two things you have seen , he said . 
Seeing , you must believe my story . 
Goodwin , I tell you again that my wife is dead or worse I do not know the prey of what you saw so , too , is Stanton so Thora . 
How Tears rolled down the seared face . 
Why did God let it conquer us ? Why did He let it take my Edith ? he cried in utter bitterness . 
Are there things stronger than God , do you think , Walter ? I hesitated . 
Are there ? Are there ? His wild eyes searched me . 
I do not know just how you define God , I managed at last through my astonishment to make answer . 
If you mean the will to know , working through science He waved me aside impatiently . 
They call it , don't they , the Lost Venice of the Pacific ? Look at this map , said Throckmartin . 
That , he went on , is Christian's chart of Metalanim harbour and the Nan Matal . 
Do you see the rectangles marked Nan Tauach ? Yes , I said . 
There , he said , under those walls is the Moon Pool and the seven gleaming lights that raise the Dweller in the Pool , and the altar and shrine of the Dweller . 
And there in the Moon Pool with it lie Edith and Stanton and Thora . 
The Dweller in the Moon Pool ? I repeated half incredulously . 
The Thing you saw , said Throckmartin solemnly . 
A solid sheet of rain swept the ports , and the Southern Queen began to roll on the rising swells . 
Throckmartin drew another deep breath of relief , and drawing aside a curtain peered out into the night . 
Its blackness seemed to reassure him . 
At any rate , when he sat again he was entirely calm . 
There are no more wonderful ruins in the world , he began almost casually . 
They take in some fifty islets and cover with their intersecting canals and lagoons about twelve square miles . 
Who built them ? None knows . 
When were they built ? Ages before the memory of present man , that is sure . 
Ten thousand , twenty thousand , a hundred thousand years ago the last more likely . 
All these islets , Walter , are squared , and their shores are frowning seawalls of gigantic basalt blocks hewn and put in place by the hands of ancient man . 
Each inner water front is faced with a terrace of those basalt blocks which stand out six feet above the shallow canals that meander between them . 
There has been a great subsidence . 
You can stand out of Metalanim harbour for three miles and look down upon the tops of similar monolithic structures and walls twenty feet below you in the water . 
My work in Java , in Papua , and in the Ladrones had set my mind upon this Pacific lost land . 
De Abrade Historia del Conflicto de las Carolinas , etc . 
W. T. G. I believed that under these ruins I might find the evi dence that I sought . 
My my wife and I had talked before we were married of making this our great work . 
After the honeymoon we prepared for the expedition . 
Stanton was as enthusiastic as ourselves . 
We sailed , as you know , last May for fulfilment of my dreams . 
At Ponape we selected , not without difficulty , workmen to help us diggers . 
I had to make extraordinary induce ments before I could get together my force . 
Their beliefs are gloomy , these Ponapeans . 
They people their swamps , their forests , their mountains , and shores , with malignant spirits ani they call them . 
And they are afraid bitterly afraid of the isles of ruins and what they think the ruins hide . 
I do not wonder now ! When they were told where they were to go , and how long we expected to stay , they murmured . 
Would to God we had heeded them and gone too ! We passed into Metalanim harbour . 
Off to our left a mile away arose a massive quadrangle . 
Its walls were all of forty feet high and hundreds of feet on each side . 
As we drew by , our natives grew very silent watched it furtively , fear fully . 
I knew it for the ruins that are called Nan Tauach , the 'place of frowning walls . 
He was silent for a little time . 
Of course I wanted to pitch our camp there , he went on again quietly , but I soon gave up that idea . 
The natives were panic stricken threatened to turn back . 
'No , they said , 'too great ani there . 
We go to any other place but not there . 
We finally picked for our base the islet called Uschen Tau . 
It was close to the isle of desire , but far enough away from it to satisfy our men . 
There was an excellent camping place and a spring of fresh water . 
We pitched our tents , and in a couple of days the work was in full swing . 
CHAPTER III The Moon Rock I DO not intend to tell you now , Throckmartin continued , the results of the next two weeks , nor of what we found . 
Later if I am allowed , I will lay all that before you . 
It is sufficient to say that at the end of those two weeks I had found confirmation for many of my theories . 
The place , for all its decay and desolation , had not in fected us with any touch of morbidity that is not Edith , Stanton , or myself . 
But Thora was very unhappy . 
From the first she showed a curious sensitivity to what , I suppose , may be called the 'influences' of the place . 
She said it 'smelled' of ghosts and warlocks . 
I laughed at her then Two weeks slipped by , and at their end the spokesman for our natives came to us . 
The next night was the full of the moon , he said . 
He reminded me of my promise . 
They would go back to their village in the morning they would return after the third night , when the moon had begun to wane . 
They left us sundry charms for our 'protection , and solemnly cautioned us to keep as far away as possible from Nan Tauach during their absence . 
Half exasperated , half amused I watched them go . 
No work could be done without them , of course , so we decided to spend the days of their absence junketing about the southern islets of the group . 
We landed just before dusk , tired and ready for our cots . 
It was only a little after ten o'clock that Edith awakened me . 
It gathered strength , died down , ended began , gathered volume , faded away into silence . 
'It's the waves rolling on rocks somewhere , I said . 
'We're probably over some ledge of rock that carries the sound . 
'It's the first time I've heard it , replied my wife doubt fully . 
Then through the dim rhythms , deep beneath us , another sound came . 
It drifted across the lagoon that lay between us and Nan Tauach in little tinkling waves . 
It was music of a sort I won't describe the strange effect it had upon me . 
You've felt it You mean on the deck ? I asked . 
I went to the flap of the tent , he continued , and peered out . 
As I did so Stanton lifted his flap and walked out into the moonlight , looking over to the other islet and listening . 
'That's the queerest sound ! he said . 
'Crystalline ! Like little notes of translucent glass . 
Like the bells of crystal on the sistrums of Isis at Dendarah Temple , he added half dreamily . 
We gazed intently at the island . 
Suddenly , on the sea wall , moving slowly , rhythmically , we saw a little group of lights . 
'The beggars ! he exclaimed . 
I felt a curious sense of re lief , although I had not been sensible of any oppression . 
'Let's slip over , suggested Stanton but I would not . 
'They're a difficult lot as it is , I said . 
'If we break into one of their religious ceremonies they'll probably never forgive us . 
Let's keep out of any family party where we haven't been invited . 
'That's so , agreed Stanton . 
The strange tinkling rose and fell , rose and fell 'There's something something very unsettling about it , said Edith at last soberly . 
'I wonder what they make those sounds with . 
They frighten me half to death , and , at the same time . 
they make me feel as though some enormous rapture were just around the corner . 
'It's devilish uncanny ! broke in Stanton . 
And as he spoke the flap of Thora's tent was raised and out into the moonlight strode the old Swede . 
She was the great Norse type tall , deep breasted , moulded on the old Viking lines . 
Her sixty years had slipped from her . 
She looked like some ancient priestess of Odin . 
She stood there , her eyes wide , brilliant , staring . 
She thrust her head forward toward Nan Tauach , regarding the moving lights she listened . 
Suddenly she raised her arms and made a curious gesture to the moon . 
'Go ! she said , and her voice seemed to come from far distances . 
'Go from here and quickly ! Go while you may . 
It has called She pointed to the islet . 
'It knows you are here . 
It waits ! she wailed . 
'It beckons the the She fell at Edith's feet , and over the lagoon came again the tinklings , now with a quicker note of jubilance almost of triumph . 
We watched beside her throughout the night . 
The sounds from Nan Tauach continued until about an hour before moon set . 
In the morning Thora awoke , none the worse , ap parently . 
She had had bad dreams , she said . 
She could not remember what they were except that they had warned her of danger . 
She was oddly sullen , and throughout the morning her gaze returned again and again half fascinatedly , half wonderingly to the neighbouring isle . 
That afternoon the natives returned . 
And that night on Nan Tauach the silence was unbroken nor were there lights nor sign of life . 
You will understand , Goodwin , how the occurrences I have related would excite the scientific curiosity . 
We rejected immediately , of course , any explanation admitting the super natural . 
Our symptoms let me call them could all very easily be accounted for . 
It is unquestionable that the vibrations created by certain musical instruments have definite and sometimes extraordinary effect upon the nervous system . 
We accepted this as the explanation of the reactions we had ex perienced , hearing the unfamiliar sounds . 
Thora's nervous ness , her superstitious apprehensions , had wrought her up to a condition of semi somnambulistic hysteria . 
Science could readily explain her part in the night's scene . 
We came to the conclusion that there must be a passage way between Ponape and Nan Tauach known to the natives and used by them during their rites . 
We decided that on the next departure of our labourers we would set forth im mediately to Nan Tauach . 
The moon waned appeared crescent in the west waxed slowly toward the full . 
Before the men left us they literally prayed us to accompany them . 
Their importunities only made us more eager to see what it was that , we were now con vinced , they wanted to conceal from us . 
At least that was true of Stanton and myself . 
It was not true of Edith . 
She was thoughtful , abstracted reluctant . 
When the men were out of sight around the turn of the harbour , we took our boat and made straight for Nan Tauach . 
Soon its mighty sea wall towered above us . 
We passed through the water gate with its gigantic hewn prisms of basalt and landed beside a half submerged pier . 
In front of us stretched a series of giant steps leading into a vast court strewn with fragments of fallen pillars . 
In the centre of the court , beyond the shattered pillars , rose another terrace of basalt blocks , concealing , I knew , still another enclosure . 
And now , Walter , for the better understanding of what follows and and he hesitated . 
Should you decide later to return with me or , if I am taken , to to follow us listen carefully to my description of this place Nan Tauach is literally three rectangles . 
The first rectangle is the sea wall , built up of monoliths hewn and squared , twenty feet wide at the top . 
To get to the gateway in the sea wall you pass along the canal marked on the map between Nan Tauach and the islet named Tau . 
The entrance to the canal is bidden by dense thickets of mangroves once through these the way is clear . 
The steps lead up from the landing of the sea gate through the entrance to the courtyard . 
This courtyard is surrounded by another basalt wall , rec tangular , following with mathematical exactness the march of the outer barricades . 
The sea wall is from thirty to forty feet high originally it must have been much higher , but there has been subsidence in parts . 
Within this courtyard is the second enclosure . 
Its terrace , of the same basalt as the outer walls , is about twenty feet high . 
Entrance is gained to it by many breaches which time has made in its stonework . 
The natives say it was the treas ure house of Chau te leur , a mighty king who reigned long 'before their fathers . 
As Chan is the ancient Ponapean word both for sun and king , the name means , without doubt , 'place of the sun king . 
And opposite this place of the sun king is the moon rock that hides the Moon Pool . 
It was Stanton who discovered the moon rock . 
We had been inspecting the inner courtyard Edith and Thora were getting together our lunch . 
I came out of the vault of Chau te leur to find Stanton before a part of the terrace studying it wonderingly . 
'What do you make of this ? he asked me as I came up . 
He pointed to the wall . 
I followed his finger and saw a slab of stone about fifteen feet high and ten wide . 
At first all I no ticed was the exquisite nicety with which its edges joined the blocks about it . 
Then I realized that its colour was subtly dif ferent tinged with grey and of a smooth , peculiar dead ness . 
'Looks more like calcite than basalt , I said . 
I touched it and withdrew my hand quickly for at the contact every nerve in my arm tingled as though a shock of frozen electricity had passed through it . 
It was not cold as we know cold . 
It was a chill force the phrase I have used frozen electricity de scribes it better than anything else . 
Stanton looked at me oddly . 
'So you felt it too , he said . 
'I was wondering whether I was developing hallucinations like Thora . 
Notice , by the way , that the blocks beside it are quite warm beneath the sun . 
We examined the slab eagerly . 
Its edges were cut as though by an engraver of jewels . 
They fitted against the neighbouring blocks in almost a hair line . 
Its base was slightly curved , and fitted as closely as top and sides upon the huge stones on which it rested . 
And then we noted that these stones had been hollowed to follow the line of the grey stone's foot . 
There was a semicircular depression running from one side of the slab to the other . 
It was as though the grey rock stood in the centre of a shallow cup revealing half , covering half . 
Something about this hollow attracted me . 
I reached down and felt it . 
'It's a door ! exclaimed Stanton . 
'It swings around in that little cup . 
That's what makes the hollow so smooth . 
'Maybe you're right , I replied . 
'But how the devil can we open it ? We went over the slab again pressing upon its edges , thrusting against its sides . 
During one of those efforts I hap pened to look up and cried out . 
A foot above and on each side of the corner of the grey rock's lintel was a slight con vexity , visible only from the angle at which my gaze struck it . 
We carried with us a small scaling ladder and up this I went . 
The bosses were apparently nothing more than chis eled curvatures in the stone . 
I laid my hand on the one I was examining , and drew it back sharply . 
In my palm , at the base of my thumb , I had felt the same shock that I had in touch ing the slab below . 
I put my hand back . 
The impression came from a spot not more than an inch wide . 
I went carefully over the entire convexity , and six times more the chill ran through my arm . 
There were seven circles an inch wide in the curved place , each of which communicated the precise sensation I have described . 
The convexity on the opposite side of the slab gave exactly the same results . 
But no amount of touching or of pressing these spots singly or in any com bination gave the slightest promise of motion to the slab itself . 
'And yet they're what open it , said Stanton positively . 
'Why do you say that ? I asked . 
'I don't know , he answered hesitatingly . 
'But some thing tells me so . 
Throck , he went on half earnestly , half laughingly , 'the purely scientific part of me is fighting the purely human part of me . 
The scientific part is urging me to find some way to get that slab either down or open . 
The hu man part is just as strongly urging me to do nothing of the sort and get away while I can ! He laughed again shamefacedly . 
'Which shall it be ? he asked and I thought that in his tone the human side of him was ascendant . 
'It will probably stay as it is unless we blow it to bits , I said . 
'I thought of that , he answered , 'and I wouldn't dare , he added soberly enough . 
And even as I had spoken there came to me the same feeling that he had expressed . 
It was as though something passed out of the grey rock that struck my heart as a hand strikes an impious lip . 
We turned away un easily , and faced Thora coming through a breach on the ter race . 
'Miss Edith wants you quick , she began and stopped . 
Her eyes went past me to the grey rock . 
Her body grew rigid she took a few stiff steps forward and then ran straight to it . 
We told her what had happened and what we had found . 
She listened gravely , and as we finished Thora sighed and opened her eyes . 
'I would like to see the stone , she said . 
'Charles , you stay here with Thora . 
We passed through the outer court silently and stood before the rock . 
She touched it , drew back her hand as I had thrust it forward again resolutely and held it there . 
She seemed to be listening . 
Then she turned to me . 
Nevertheless , I tried to master my desire , and I answered 'Edith , not a bit if you want us to do it . 
She read my struggle in my eyes . 
She turned back toward the grey rock . 
I saw a shiver pass through her . 
I felt a tinge of remorse and pity ! 'Edith , I exclaimed , 'we'll go ! She looked at me again . 
'Science is a jealous mistress , she quoted . 
'No , after all it may be just fancy . 
At any rate , you can't run away . 
No ! But , Dave , I'm going to stay too ! And there was no changing her decision . 
As we neared the others she laid a hand on my arm . 
We picked a place about five hundred feet away from the steps leading into the outer court . 
The spot we had selected was well hidden . 
We could not be seen , and yet we had a clear view of the stairs and the gateway . 
We settled down just before dusk to wait for what ever might come . 
I was nearest the giant steps next me Edith then Thora , and last Stanton . 
After a time the eastern sky began to lighten , and we knew that the moon was rising grew lighter still , and the orb peeped over the sea swam into full sight . 
I glanced at Edith and then at Thora . 
My wife was intently listening . 
Thora sat , as she had since we had placed ourselves , elbows on knees , her hands covering her face . 
And then from the moonlight flooding us there dripped down on me a great drowsiness . 
Sleep seemed to seep from the rays and fall upon my eyes , closing them closing them inexorably . 
Edith's hand in mine relaxed . 
Stanton's head fell upon his breast and his body swayed drunkenly . 
I tried to rise to fight against the profound desire for slumber that pressed on me . 
And as I fought , Thora raised her head as though listen ing and turned toward the gateway . 
There was infinite des pair in her face and expectancy . 
I tried again to rise and a surge of sleep rushed over me . 
Dimly , as I sank within it , I heard a crystalline chiming raised my lids once more with a supreme effort . 
Thora , bathed in light , was standing at the top of the stairs . 
Sleep took me for its very own swept me into the heart of oblivion ! Dawn was breaking when I wakened . 
Recollection rushed back I thrust a panic stricken hand out toward Edith touched her and my heart gave a great leap of thankfulness . 
She stirred , sat up , rubbing dazed eyes . 
Stanton lay on his side , back toward us , head in arms . 
Edith looked at me laughingly . 
'Heavens ! What sleep ! she said . 
'What happened ? she whispered . 
'What made us sleep like that ? Stanton awoke . 
'What's the matter ! he exclaimed . 
'You look as though you've been seeing ghosts . 
'Where's Thora ? she cried . 
Before I could answer she had run out into the open , calling . 
There I told them what I had seen before sleep had drowned me . 
And together then we ran up the stairs , through the court and to the grey rock . 
The slab was closed as it had been the day before , nor was there trace of its having opened . 
No trace ? Even as I thought this Edith dropped to her knees before it and reached toward something lying at its foot . 
It was a little piece of gay silk . 
I knew it for part of the kerchief Thora wore about her hair . 
We beat upon that portal with our hands , with stones and sticks . 
At last reason came back to us . 
Goodwin , during the next two hours we tried every way in our power to force entrance through the slab . 
The rock re sisted our drills . 
We tried explosions at the base with charges covered by rock . 
They made not the slightest impression on the surface , expending their force , of course , upon the slighter resistance of their coverings . 
Night was coming on and we would have to decide our course of action . 
I wanted to go to Ponape for help . 
But Edith objected that this would take hours and after we had reached there it would be impossible to persuade our men to return with us that night , if at all . 
But this would mean the abandonment of Thora for at least two days . 
We could not do it it would have been too cowardly . 
Our path lay clear before us . 
We had to spend that night on Nan Tauach ! We had , of course , discussed the sleep phenomena very fully . 
We made some rough and ready but effective respirators . 
As dusk fell we looked over our weapons . 
Edith was an excellent shot with both rifle and pistol . 
We had decided that my wife was to remain in the hiding place . 
Stanton would take up a station on the far side of the stairway and I would place myself opposite him on the side near Edith . 
From our respective stations Stanton and I could command the gateway entrance . 
His position gave him also a glimpse of the outer courtyard . 
A faint glow in the sky heralded the moon . 
Stanton and I took our places . 
The moon dawn increased rapidly the disk swam up , and in a moment it was shining in full radiance upon ruins and sea . 
As it rose there came a curious little sighing sound from the inner terrace . 
Stanton straightened up and stared in tently through the gateway , rifle ready . 
'Stanton , what do you see ? I called cautiously . 
He waved a silencing hand . 
I turned my head to look at Edith . 
A shock ran through me . 
She lay upon her side . 
Her face , grotesque with its nose and mouth covered by the respirator , was turned full toward the moon . 
She was again in deepest sleep ! As I turned again to call to Stanton , my eyes swept the head of the steps and stopped , fascinated . 
For the moon light had thickened . 
It seemed to be curdled there and through it ran little gleams and veins of shimmering white fire . 
A languor passed through me . 
It was not the ineffable drowsiness of the preceding night . 
It was a sapping of all will to move . 
I tried to cry out to Stanton . 
I had not even the will to move my lips . 
Goodwin I could not even move my eyes ! Stanton was in the range of my fixed vision . 
I watched him leap up the steps and move toward the gateway . 
The curdled radiance seemed to await him . 
He stepped into it and was lost to my sight . 
For a dozen heart beats there was silence . 
I strove to burst the bonds that held me . 
Even my eyelids were fixed . 
Within them my eyes , dry and aching , burned . 
Then Goodwin I first saw the inexplicable ! The crys talline music swelled . 
From this gateway an intenser light began to flow . 
It grew , it gushed , and out of it walked Stanton . 
Stanton ! But God ! What a vision ! A deep tremor shook him . 
CHAPTER V Into the Moon Pool GOODWIN , Throckmartin went on at last , I can describe him only as a thing of living light . 
He radiated light was filled with light overflowed with it . 
A shining cloud whirled through and around him in radiant swirls , shimmering ten tacles , luminescent , coruscating spirals . 
His face shone with a rapture too great to be borne by living man , and was shadowed with insuperable misery . 
It was as though it had been remoulded by the hand of God and the hand of Satan , working together and in harmony . 
You have seen that seal upon my own . 
But you have never seen it in the degree that Stanton bore it . 
And as its shining nucleus passed through him Stanton's whole body pulsed radiance . 
As the luminescence moved , there moved above it , still and serene always , seven tiny globes of seven colors , like seven little moons . 
Then swiftly Stanton was lifted levitated up the un scalable wall and to its top . 
The glow faded from the moon light , the tinkling music grew fainter . 
I tried again to move . 
The tears were running down now from my rigid lids and they brought relief to my tortured eyes . 
I have said my gaze was fixed . 
But from the side , peripherally , it took in a part of the far wall of the outer en closure . 
Ages seemed to pass and a radiance stole along it . 
Soon drifted into sight the figure that was Stanton . 
Far away he was on the gigantic wall . 
But still I could see the shin ing spirals whirling jubilantly around and through him felt rather than saw his tranced face beneath the seven moons . 
A swirl of crystal notes , and he had passed . 
At last the moon neared the horizon . 
There came a louder burst of sound the second , and last , cry of Stanton , like an echo of his first ! Again the soft sighing from the inner ter race . 
Then utter silence ! The light faded the moon was setting and with a rush life and power to move returned to me . 
I made a leap for the steps , rushed up them , through the gateway and straight to the grey rock . 
It was closed as I knew it would be . 
But did I dream it or did I bear , echoing through it as though from vast distances a triumphant shouting ? I ran back to Edith . 
At my touch she wakened looked at me wanderingly raised herself on a hand . 
'Dave ! she said , 'I slept after all . 
She saw the despair on my face and leaped to her feet . 
'What is it ? Where's Charles ? I lighted a fire before I spoke . 
And for the balance of that night we sat before the flames , arms around each other like two frightened children . 
Abruptly Throckmartin held his hands out to me appeal ingly . 
Walter , old friend ! he cried . 
Don't look at me as though I were mad . 
It's truth , absolute truth . 
Wait I comforted him as well as I could . 
After a little time he took up his story . 
Never , he said , did man welcome the sun as we did that morning . 
A soon as it had risen we went back to the courtyard . 
The walls whereon I had seen Stanton were black and silent . 
The terraces were as they had been . 
The grey slab was in its place . 
In the shallow hollow at its base was nothing . 
Nothing nothing was there anywhere on the islet of Stanton not a trace . 
What were we to do ? Precisely the same arguments that had kept us there the night before held good now and doubly good . 
'It takes only one each night , she pleaded . 
'Beloved , let it take me . 
'We will meet it together , she said . 
And it was thus at last that we arranged it . 
That took great courage indeed , Throckmartin , I inter rupted . 
He looked at me eagerly . 
You do believe then ? he exclaimed . 
I believe , I said . 
He pressed my hand with a grip that nearly crushed it . 
Now , he told me . 
If I fail , you will fol low with help ? I promised . 
We talked it over carefully , he went on , bringing to bear all our power of analysis and habit of calm , scientific thought . 
We considered minutely the time element in the phenomena . 
Although the deep chanting began at the very moment of moonrise , fully five minutes had passed between its full lifting and the strange sighing sound from the inner terrace . 
I went back in memory over the happenings of the night before . 
At least ten minutes had intervened between the first heralding sigh and the intensification of the moon light in the courtyard . 
And this glow grew for at least ten minutes more before the first burst of the crystal notes . 
In deed , more than half an hour must have elapsed , I calculated , between the moment the moon showed above the horizon and the first delicate onslaught of the tinklings . 
'I think I have it ! The grey rock opens five minutes after upon the moonrise . 
But whoever or what ever it is that comes through it must wait until the moon has risen higher , or else it must come from a distance . 
The thing to do is not to wait for it , but to surprise it before it passes out the door . 
We will go into the inner court early . 
You will take your rifle and pistol and hide yourself where you can command the opening if the slab does open . 
The instant it opens I will enter . 
It's our best chance , Edith . 
I think it's our only one . 
She wanted to go with me . 
But I convinced her that it was better for her to stand guard without , prepared to help me if I were forced again into the open by what lay behind the rock . 
At the half hour before moonrise we went into the inner court . 
I took my place at the side of the grey rock . 
Edith crouched behind a broken pillar twenty feet away slipped her rifle barrel over it so that it would cover the opening . 
The darkness lessened and through the breaches of the terrace I watched the far sky softly lighten . 
With the first pale flush the silence of the place intensified . 
It deepened became unbearably expectant . 
The moon rose , showed the quarter , the half , then swam up into full sight like a great bubble . 
Its rays fell upon the wall before me and suddenly upon the convexities I have described seven little circles of light sprang out . 
They gleamed , glimmered , grew brighter shone . 
A tunnel stretched before me . 
It glowed with the same faint silvery radiance . 
The passage turned ab ruptly , passed parallel to the walls of the outer courtyard and then once more led downward . 
Before me was a high vaulted arch . 
It seemed to open into space a space filled with lambent , coruscating , many coloured mist whose brightness grew even as I watched . 
I passed through the arch and stopped in sheer awe ! In front of me was a pool . 
It was circular , perhaps twenty feet wide . 
Around it ran a low , softly curved lip of glimmer ing silvery stone . 
Its water was palest blue . 
The pool with its silvery rim was like a great blue eye staring upward . 
Upon it streamed seven shafts of radiance . 
They poured down upon the blue eye like cylindrical torrents they were like shining pillars of light rising from a sapphire floor . 
Such are the colours of the seven lights that stream upon the Moon Pool . 
I drew closer , awestricken . 
The shafts did not illumine the depths . 
They played upon the surface and seemed there to diffuse , to melt into it . 
The Pool drank them ? Through the water tiny gleams of phosphorescence be gan to dart , sparkles and coruscations of pale incandescence . 
And far , far below I sensed a movement , a shifting glow as of a radiant body slowly rising . 
I looked upward , following the radiant pillars to their source . 
Far above were seven shining globes , and it was from these that the rays poured . 
Even as I watched their bright ness grew . 
They were like seven moons set high in some caverned heaven . 
Slowly their splendour increased , and with it the splendour of the seven beams streaming from them . 
I tore my gaze away and stared at the Pool . 
It had grown milky , opalescent . 
The rays gushing into it seemed to be filling it it was alive with sparklings , scintillations , glimmer ings . 
And the luminescence I had seen rising from its depths was larger , nearer ! A swirl of mist floated up from its surface . 
It drifted within the embrace of the rosy beam and hung there for a moment . 
The beam seemed to embrace it , sending through it little shining corpuscles , tiny rosy spiralings . 
The mist absorbed the rays , was strengthened by them , gained sub stance . 
Another swirl sprang into the amber shaft , clung and fed there , moved swiftly toward the first and mingled with it . 
And now other swirls arose , here and there , too fast to be counted hung poised in the embrace of the light streams flashed and pulsed into each other . 
Into its centre was passing the luminescence rising from the far depths . 
My hand threw up the pistol and I fired shot after shot into the shining core . 
As I fired , it swayed and shook gathered again . 
I slipped a second clip into the automatic and another idea coming to me took careful aim at one of the globes in the roof . 
From thence I knew came the force that shaped this Dweller in the Pool from the pouring rays came its strength . 
If I could destroy them I could check its forming . 
I fired again and again . 
If I hit the globes I did no damage . 
The little motes in their beams danced with the motes in the mist , troubled . 
But up from the Pool like little bells , like tiny bursting bubbles of glass , swarmed the tinkling sounds their pitch higher , all their sweetness lost , angry . 
And out from the Inexplicable swept a shining spiral . 
It caught me above the heart wrapped itself around me . 
There rushed through me a mingled ecstasy and horror . 
Every atom of me quivered with delight and shrank with despair . 
There was nothing loathsome in it . 
But it was as though the icy soul of evil and the fiery soul of good had stepped together within me . 
The pistol dropped from my hand . 
So I stood while the Pool gleamed and sparkled the streams of light grew more intense and the radiant Thing that held me gleamed and strengthened . 
Its shining core had shape but a shape that my eyes and brain could not define . 
It was neither man nor woman it was unearthly and androgynous . 
Even as I found its human semblance it changed . 
And still the mingled rapture and terror held me . 
Only in a little corner of my brain dwelt something untouched something that held itself apart and watched . 
Was it the soul ? I have never be lieved and yet Over the head of the misty body there sprang suddenly out seven little lights . 
Each was the colour of the beam be neath which it rested . 
I knew now that the Dweller was complete ! I heard a scream . 
It came to me that she had heard the shots and followed me . 
I felt every faculty concentrate into a mighty effort . 
I wrenched myself free from the gripping tentacle and it swept back . 
I turned to catch Edith , and as I did so slipped fell . 
It wrapped its shining self around her . 
The crys tal tinklings burst forth jubilantly . 
'Edith , come back to me ! And then a darkness fell upon me . 
I remember running back through the shimmering corridors and out into the courtyard . 
When it returned I was far out at sea in our boat wholly estranged from civilization . 
A day later I was picked up by the schooner in which I came to Port Moresby . 
I have formed a plan you must bear it , Goodwin He fell upon his berth . 
Exhaustion and the re lief of telling his story had been too much for him . 
He slept like the dead . 
All that night I watched over him . 
When dawn broke I went to my room to get a little sleep myself . 
But my slumber was haunted . 
The next day the storm was unabated . 
Throckmartin came to me at lunch . 
He had regained much of his old alertness . 
Come to my cabin , he said . 
There , he stripped his shirt from him . 
Something is happening , he said . 
It was as he said . 
There is something outside experience there some great mystery . 
And all that day he talked to me of his plans . 
There's a natural explanation , of course , he said . 
My theory is that the moon rock is of some composition sensitive to the action of moon rays somewhat as the metal selenium is to sun rays . 
The little circles over the top are , without doubt , its operating agency . 
When the light strikes them they release the mechanism that opens the slab , just as you can open doors with sun or electric light by an ingenious ar rangement of selenium cells . 
Apparently it takes the strength of the full moon both to do this and to summon the Dweller in the Pool . 
We will first try a concentration of the rays of the waning moon upon these circles to see whether that will open the rock . 
If it does we will be able to investigate the Pool without interruption from from what emanates . 
Look , here on the chart are their locations . 
I have made this in duplicate for you in the event of something hap pening to me . 
And if I lose you'll come after us , Good win , with help won't you ? And again I promised . 
A little later he complained of increasing sleepiness . 
But it's just weariness , he said . 
Not at all like that other drowsiness . 
It's an hour till moonrise still , he yawned at last . 
Wake me up a good fifteen minutes before . 
He lay upon the berth . 
I came to myself with a guilty start . 
I had completely lost myself in my deep preoccupation . 
What time was it ? I looked at my watch and jumped to the port hole . 
It was full moonlight the orb had been up for fully half an hour . 
I strode over to Throckmartin and shook him by the shoulder . 
Up , quick , man ! I cried . 
His shirt fell open at the neck and I looked , in amazement , at the white band around his chest . 
Even under the electric light it shone softly , as though little flecks of light were in it . 
Throckmartin seemed only half awake . 
He looked down at his breast , saw the glowing cincture , and smiled . 
Yes , he said drowsily , it's coming to take me back to Edith ! Well , I'm glad . 
Wake up ! Fight ! Fight ! he said . 
No use come after us ! He went to the port and sleepily drew aside the curtain . 
The moon traced a broad path of light straight to the ship . 
Under its rays the band around his chest gleamed brighter and brighter shot forth little rays seemed to writhe . 
The lights went out in the cabin evidently also through out the ship , for I heard shoutings above . 
Throckmartin still stood at the open port . 
Over his shoul der I saw a gleaming pillar racing along the moon path to ward us . 
Through the window cascaded a blinding radiance . 
It gathered Throckmartin to it , clothed him in a robe of living opalescence . 
Light pulsed through and from him . 
The cabin filled with murmurings A wave of weakness swept over me , buried me in black ness . 
When consciousness came back , the lights were again burning brightly . 
My first act was to spring to the open port . 
The coma had lasted hours , for the moon was now low in the west ! I ran to the door to sound the alarm . 
It resisted under my frantic hands would not open . 
Something fell tinkling to the floor . 
It was the key and I remembered then that Throckmartin had turned it before we began our vigil . 
With memory a hope died that I had not known was in me , the hope that he had escaped from the cabin , found refuge elsewhere on the ship . 
And as I stooped , fumbling with shaking fingers for the key , a thought came to me that drove again the blood from my heart , held me rigid . 
I could sound no alarm on the Southern Queen for Throckmartin ! Conviction of my appalling helplessness was complete . 
The ensemble of the vessel from captain to cabin boy was , to put it conservatively , average . 
None , I knew , save Throck martin and myself had seen the first apparition of the Dweller . 
Had they witnessed the second ? I did not know , nor could I risk speaking , not knowing . 
And not seeing , how could they believe ? They would have thought me insane or worse even , it might be , his murderer . 
I snapped off the electrics waited and listened opened the door with infinite caution and slipped , unseen , into my own stateroom . 
The hours until the dawn were eternities of wak ing nightmare . 
Reason , resuming sway at last , steadied me . 
Even had I spoken and been believed where in these wastes after all the hours could we search for Throckmartin ? Cer tainly the captain would not turn back to Port Moresby . 
And this I deter mined to do . 
Calmness came back to me after I had made this decision . 
And when I went up on deck I knew that I had been right . 
They had not seen the Dweller . 
They were still discussing the darkening of the ship , talking of dynamos burned out , wires short circuited , a half dozen explanations of the ex tinguishment . 
Not until noon was Throckmartin's absence discovered . 
I told the captain that I had left him early in the evening that , indeed , I knew him but slightly , after all . 
It occurred to none to doubt me , or to question me minutely . 
Why should it have ? His strangeness had been noted , com mented upon all who had met him had thought him half mad . 
I did little to discourage the impression . 
And so it came naturally that on the log it was entered that he had fallen or leaped from the vessel some time during the night . 
A report to this effect was made when we entered Mel bourne . 
I was fortunate in securing at Melbourne everything I needed except a set of Becquerel ray condensers but these were the very keystone of my equipment . 
Pursuing my search to Sydney I was doubly fortunate in finding a firm who were expecting these very articles in a consignment due them from the States within a fortnight . 
I settled down in strictest seclusion to await their arrival . 
And now it will occur to you to ask why I did not cable , during this period of waiting , to the Association demand aid from it . 
Or why I did not call upon members of the Uni versity staffs of either Melbourne or Sydney for assistance . 
At the least , why I did not gather , as Throckmartin had hoped to do , a little force of strong men to go with me to the Nan Matal . 
To the first two questions I answer frankly I did not dare . 
And this reluctance , this inhibition , every man jealous of his scientific reputation will understand . 
The story of Throck martin , the happenings I had myself witnessed , were in credible , abnormal , outside the facts of all known science . 
I shrank from the inevitable disbelief , perhaps ridicule nay , perhaps even the graver suspicion that had caused me to seal my lips while on the ship . 
But I do not hold it so my conscience is clear . 
That fortnight and the greater part of another passed be fore the ship I awaited steamed into port . 
At last the condensers were in my hands . 
We sighted the Brunhilda some five hundred miles south of the Carolines . 
The wind had fallen soon after Papua had dropped astern . 
The Suwarna's ability to make her twelve knots an hour without it had made me very fully forgive her for not being as fragrant as the Javan flower for which she was named . 
The crew was made up of six huge , chattering Tonga boys . 
The Suwarna had cut through Finschafen Huon Gulf to the protection of the Bismarcks . 
After we had rounded Nukuor we should , barring accident , reach Ponape in not more than sixty hours . 
It was late afternoon , and on the demure little breeze that marched behind us came far flung sighs of spice trees and nutmeg flowers . 
The slow prodigious swells of the Pacific lifted us in gentle , giant hands and sent us as gently down the long , blue wave slopes to the next broad , upward slope . 
There was a spell of peace over the ocean , stilling even the Portuguese captain who stood dreamily at the wheel , slowly swaying to the rhythmic lift and fall of the sloop . 
There came a whining hail from the Tonga boy lookout draped lazily over the bow . 
Sail he b'long port side ! Da Costa straightened and gazed while I raised my glass . 
The vessel was a scant mile away , and must have been visible long before the sleepy watcher had seen her . 
She was a sloop about the size of the Suwarna , without power . 
All sails set , even to a spinnaker she carried , she was making the best of the little breeze . 
The stern came in sight , and on it I read Brunhilda . 
I shifted my glasses to the man at wheel . 
He was crouch ing down over the spokes in a helpless , huddled sort of way , and even as I looked the vessel veered again , abruptly as before . 
I saw the helmsman straighten up and bring the wheel about with a vicious jerk . 
He stood so for a moment , looking straight ahead , entirely oblivious of us , and then seemed again to sink down within himself . 
It came to me that his was the action of a man striv ing vainly against a weariness unutterable . 
I swept the deck with my glasses . 
There was no other sign of life . 
I turned to find the Portuguese staring intently and with puzzled air at the sloop , now separated from us by a scant half mile . 
Something veree wrong I think there , sair , he said in his curious English . 
The man on deck I know . 
He is cap tain and owner of the Br rwun'ild . 
His name Olaf Huldricks son , what you say Norwegian . 
We were now nearly abreast and a scant hun dred yards away . 
The engine of the Suwarna died and the Tonga boys leaped to one of the boats . 
You Olaf Huldricksson ! shouted Da Costa . 
What's a matter wit' you ? The man at the wheel turned toward us . 
He was a giant his shoulders enormous , thick chested , strength in every line of him , he towered like a viking of old at the rudder bar of his shark ship . 
The little captain was dropping into it . 
I ran into my cabin , grasped my emerg ency medical kit and climbed down the rope ladder . 
The Tonga boys bent to the oars . 
We reached the side and Da Costa and I each seized a lanyard dangling from the stays and swung ourselves on board . 
Da Costa approached Hul dricksson softly . 
What's the matter , Olaf ? he began and then was silent , looking down at the wheel . 
Even as we touched them , Huldricksson aimed a vicious kick at me and then another at Da Costa which sent the Portuguese tumbling into the scuppers . 
Let be ! croaked Huldricksson his voice was thick and lifeless as though forced from a dead throat his lips were cracked and dry and his parched tongue was black . 
Let be ! Go ! Let be ! The Portuguese had picked himself up , whimpering with rage and knife in hand , but as Huldricksson's voice reached him he stopped . 
Amazement crept into his eyes and as he thrust the blade back into his belt they softened with pity . 
Something veree wrong wit' Olaf , he murmured to me . 
I think he crazee ! And then Olaf Huldricksson began to curse us . 
He did not speak he howled from that hideously dry mouth his imprecations . 
And all the time his red eyes roamed the seas and his hands , clenched and rigid on the wheel , dropped blood . 
I go below , said Da Costa nervously . 
His wife , his daughter he darted down the companionway and was gone . 
Huldricksson , silent once more , had slumped down over the wheel . 
Da Costa's head appeared at the top of the companion steps . 
There is nobody , nobody , he paused then nobody nowhere ! His hands flew out in a gesture of hopeless in comprehension . 
Then Olaf Huldricksson opened his dry lips and as he spoke a chill ran through me , checking my heart . 
Da Costa moved toward him again and again Huldricksson watched him , alertly , wickedly , from his bloodshot eyes . 
I took a hypodermic from my case and filled it with mor phine . 
I drew Da Costa to me . 
Get to the side of him , I whispered , talk to him . 
He moved over toward the wheel . 
Where is your Helma and Freda , Olaf ? he said . 
Huldricksson turned his head toward him . 
The shining devil took them , he croaked . 
The moon devil that spark A yell broke from him . 
I had thrust the needle into his arm just above one swollen wrist and had quickly shot the drug through . 
He struggled to release himself and then be gan to rock drunkenly . 
The morphine , taking him in his weakness , worked quickly . 
Soon over his face a peace dropped . 
The pupils of the staring eyes contracted . 
Once , twice , he swayed and then , his bleeding , prisoned hands held high and still gripping the wheel , he crumpled to the deck . 
With utmost difficulty we loosed the thongs , but at last it was done . 
We rigged a little swing and the Tonga boys slung the great inert body over the side into the dory . 
Soon we had Huldricksson in my bunk . 
Da Costa sent half his crew over to the sloop in charge of the Cantonese . 
I cleansed and bandaged the Norseman's lacerated wrists and sponged the blackened , parched mouth with warm water and a mild antiseptic . 
Suddenly I was aware of Da Costa's presence and turned . 
His unease was manifest and held , it seemed to me , a queer , furtive anxiety . 
What you think of Olaf , sair ? he asked . 
You think he killed his woman and his babee ? He went on . 
You think he crazee and killed all ? Nonsense , Da Costa , I answered . 
You saw the boat was gone . 
Most probably his crew mutinied and to torture him tied him up the way you saw . 
They did the same thing with Hilton of the Coral Lady you'll remember . 
No. The crew did not . 
Nobody there on board when Olaf was tied . 
What ! I cried , startled . 
What do you mean ? I mean , he said slowly , that Olaf tie himself ! Wait ! he went on at my incredulous gesture of dissent . 
Wait , I show you . 
He had been standing with hands behind his back and now I saw that he held in them the cut thongs that had bound Huldricksson . 
They were blood stained and each ended in a broad leather tip skilfully spliced into the cord . 
Look , he said , pointing to these leather ends . 
I looked and saw in them deep indentations of teeth . 
I snatched one of the thongs and opened the mouth of the unconscious man on the bunk . 
Carefully I placed the leather within it and gently forced the jaws shut on it . 
Those marks were where Olaf Huldricksson's jaws had gripped . 
Wait ! Da Costa repeated , I show you . 
He took other cords and rested his hands on the supports of a chair back . 
Rapidly he twisted one of the thongs around his left hand , drew a loose knot , shifted the cord up toward his elbow . 
This left wrist and hand still free and with them he twisted the other cord around the right wrist drew a similar knot . 
His hands were now in the exact position that Huldricks son's had been on the Brunhilda but with cords and knots hanging loose . 
He strained at his fetters . 
There before my eyes he had pinioned himself so that without aid he could not release himself . 
And he was exactly as Huldricksson had been ! You will have to cut me loose , sair , he said . 
It is an old trick on these seas . 
I looked from him to the man on the bed . 
But why , sair , said Da Costa slowly , did Olaf have to tie his hands ? I looked at him , uneasily . 
I don't know , I answered . 
Do you ? He fidgeted , avoided my eyes , and then rapidly , almost surreptitiously crossed himself . 
Some things I have heard but they tell many tales on these seas . 
He started for the door . 
Before he reached it he turned . 
But this I do know , he half whispered , I am damned glad there is no full moon tonight . 
And passed out , leaving me staring after him in amazement . 
What did the Portuguese know ? I bent over the sleeper . 
On his face was no trace of that unholy mingling of opposites the Dweller stamped upon its victims . 
Down upon us swept one of the abrupt , violent squalls that are met with in those latitudes . 
I lashed Huldricksson fast in the berth and ran up on deck . 
The long , peaceful swells had changed into angry , choppy waves from the tops of which the spindrift streamed in long stinging lashes . 
A half hour passed the squall died as quickly as it had arisen . 
Over in the west , from beneath the tattered , flying edge of the storm , dropped the red globe of the setting sun dropped slowly until it touched the sea rim . 
I watched it and rubbed my eyes and stared again . 
As we approached we saw it was a little mass of wreckage and that the beckoning finger was a wing of canvas , sticking up and swaying with the motion of the waves . 
On the high est point of the wreckage sat a tall figure calmly smoking a cigarette . 
We brought the Suwarna to , dropped a boat , and with my self as coxswain pulled toward a wrecked hydroairplane . 
Its occupant took a long puff at his cigarette , waved a cheerful hand , shouted a greeting . 
And just as he did so a great wave raised itself up behind him , took the wreckage , tossed it high in a swelter of foam , and passed on . 
When we had steadied our boat , where wreck and man had been was nothing . 
There came a tug at the side , two muscular brown hands gripped it close to my left , and a sleek , black , wet head showed its top between them . 
Much obliged , said this man from the sea . 
I knew somebody was sure to come along when the O'Keefe ban shee didn't show up . 
The what ? I asked in amazement . 
The O'Keefe banshee I'm Larry O'Keefe . 
It's a far way from Ireland , but not too far for the O'Keefe banshee to travel if the O'Keefe was going to click in . 
I looked again at my astonishing rescue . 
He seemed per fectly serious . 
Have you a cigarette ? Mine went out , he said with a grin , as he reached a moist hand out for the little cylinder , took it , lighted it . 
He laughed , stretched out a firm hand , and gripped mine . 
Thank you really ever so much , old man , he said . 
Oddly enough , I found that he knew me , or rather my work . 
He had hardly finished this explanation when we touched the side of the Suwarna , and I was forced to curb my curi osity until we reached the deck . 
And by the way , about where are we ? Da Costa gave him our approximate position from the noon reckoning . 
A good three hundred miles from where I left the H. M. S. Dolphin about four hours ago , he said . 
That squall I rode in on was some whizzer ! The Dolphin , he went on , calmly divesting himself of his soaked uniform , was on her way to Melbourne . 
I'd been yearning for a joy ride and went up for an alleged scouting trip . 
Then that blow shot out of nowhere , picked me up , and insisted that I go with it . 
About an hour ago I thought I saw a chance to zoom up and out of it , I turned , and BLICK went my right wing , and down I dropped . 
I don't know how we can notify your ship , Lieutenant O'Keefe , I said . 
Doctair Goodwin , said Da Costa , we could change our course , sair perhaps Thanks but not a bit of it , broke in O'Keefe . 
Lord alone knows where the Dolphin is now . 
Fancy she'll be nos ing around looking for me . 
Anyway , she's just as apt to run into you as you into her . 
Maybe we'll strike something with a wireless , and I'll trouble you to put me aboard . 
Where are you bound , by the way ? he asked . 
For Ponape , I answered . 
No wireless there , mused O'Keefe . 
Stopped a week ago for fruit . 
Natives seemed scared to death at us or something . 
What are you going there for ? Da Costa darted a furtive glance at me . 
Oh , I beg your pardon , he said . 
Maybe I oughn't to have asked that ? It's no secret , Lieutenant , I replied . 
I'm about to under take some exploration work a little digging among the ruins on the Nan Matal . 
I looked at the Portuguese sharply as I named the place . 
A pallor crept beneath his skin and again he made swiftly the sign of the cross , glancing as he did so fearfully to the north . 
I made up my mind then to question him when op portunity came . 
He turned from his quick scrutiny of the sea and addressed O'Keefe . 
There's nothing on board to fit you , Lieutenant . 
Oh , just give me a sheet to throw around me , Captain , said O'Keefe and followed him . 
Darkness had fallen , and as the two disappeared into Da Costa's cabin I softly opened the door of my own and listened . 
Huldricksson was breath ing deeply and regularly . 
I drew my electric flash , and shielding its rays from my face , looked at him . 
His sleep was changing from the heavy stupor of the drug into one that was at least on the border land of the normal . 
The tongue had lost its arid blackness and the mouth secretions had resumed action . 
Satisfied as to his condition I returned to deck . 
O'Keefe was there , looking like a spectre in the cotton sheet he had wrapped about him . 
A deck table had been cleated down and one of the Tonga boys was setting it for our dinner . 
Soon the very creditable larder of the Suwarna dressed the board , and O'Keefe , Da Costa , and I attacked it . 
The night had grown close and oppressive . 
Behind us the forward light of the Brunhilda glided and the binnacle lamp threw up a faint glow in which her black helmsman's face stood out mistily . 
O'Keefe had looked curiously a number of times at our tow , but had asked no questions . 
You're not the only passenger we picked up today , I told him . 
We found the captain of that sloop , lashed to his wheel , nearly dead with exhaustion , and his boat deserted by everyone except himself . 
What was the matter ? asked O'Keefe in astonishment . 
We don't know , I answered . 
He fought us , and I had to drug him before we could get him loose from his lashings . 
He's sleeping down in my berth now . 
His wife and little girl ought to have been on board , the captain here says , but they weren't . 
Wife and child gone ! exclaimed O'Keefe . 
From the condition of his mouth he must have been alone at the wheel and without water at least two days and nights before we found him , I replied . 
And as for looking for anyone on these waters after such a time it's hopeless . 
That's true , said O'Keefe . 
But his wife and baby ! Poor , poor devil ! He was silent for a time , and then , at my solicitation , be gan to tell us more of himself . 
He had been little more than twenty when he had won his wings and entered the war . 
He had been seriously wounded at Ypres during the third year of the struggle , and when he recovered the war was over . 
Shortly after that his mother had died . 
Lonely and restless , he had re entered the Air Service , and had remained in it ever since . 
I watched him as he talked , feeling my liking for him steadily increasing . 
If I could but have a man like this be side me on the path of unknown peril upon which I had set my feet I thought , wistfully . 
We sat and smoked a bit , sip ping the strong coffee the Portuguese made so well . 
Da Costa at last relieved the Cantonese at the wheel . 
O'Keefe and I drew chairs up to the rail . 
O'Keefe pulled contentedly at a cigarette . 
The glowing spark lighted the keen , boyish face and the blue eyes , now black and brooding under the spell of the tropic night . 
Are you American or Irish , O'Keefe ? I asked suddenly . 
Because , I answered , from your name and your service I would suppose you Irish but your command of pure Americanese makes me doubtful . 
I'll tell you how that is , he said . 
My mother was an American a Grace , of Virginia . 
My father was the O'Keefe , of Coleraine . 
And these two loved each other so well that the heart they gave me is half Irish and half American . 
My father died when I was sixteen . 
I used to go to the States with my mother every other year for a month or two . 
But after my father died we used to go to Ireland every other year . 
And there you are I'm as much Ameri can as I am Irish . 
When I'm in love , or excited , or dreaming , or mad I have the brogue . 
But for the everyday purpose of life I like the United States talk , and I know Broadway as well as I do Binevenagh Lane , and the Sound as well as St . 
But it was the Irish O'Keefe who sat out there waiting for the banshee , I laughed . 
It was that , he said somberly , and I heard the brogue creep over his voice like velvet and his eyes grew brooding again . 
There's never an O'Keefe for these thousand years that has passed without his warning . 
An' twice have I heard the banshee calling once it was when my younger brother died an' once when my father lay waiting to be carried out on the ebb tide . 
CHAPTER VIII Olaf's Story THERE was a little silence . 
I looked upon him with wonder . 
Clearly he was in deepest earnest . 
I know the psychology of the Gael is a curious one and that deep in all their hearts their ancient traditions and beliefs have strong and living roots . 
And I was both amused and touched . 
He shook his head half impatiently and ran a hand over his eyes turned to me and grinned Don't think I'm cracked , Professor , he said . 
But it takes me that way now and then . 
It's the Irish in me . 
And , believe it or not , I'm telling you the truth . 
I looked eastward where the moon , now nearly a week past the full , was mounting . 
You can't make me see what you've seen , Lieutenant , I laughed . 
But you can make me hear . 
I've always wondered what kind of a noise a disembodied spirit could make with out any vocal cords or breath or any other earthly sound producing mechanism . 
How does the banshee sound ? O'Keefe looked at me seriously . 
All right , he said . 
From deep down in his throat came first a low , weird sobbing that mounted steadily into a keening whose mournfulness made my skin creep . 
It's all right , Professor , he said . 
It found me all this way from Ireland . 
Again the silence was rent by the cry . 
But now I had lo cated it . 
It came from my room , and it could mean only one thing Huldricksson had wakened . 
Forget your banshee ! I gasped , and made a jump for the cabin . 
Out of the corner of my eye I noted a look of half sheep ish relief flit over O'Keefe's face , and then he was beside me . 
Da Costa shouted an order from the wheel , the Cantonese ran up and took it from his hands and the little Portuguese pattered down toward us . 
My hand on the door , ready to throw it open , I stopped . 
O'Keefe pushed me aside , threw open the door and crouched low within it . 
I saw an automatic flash dully in his hand saw it cover the cabin from side to side , following the swift sweep of his eyes around it . 
Then he straightened and his face , turned toward the berth , was filled with wondering pity . 
Through the window streamed a shaft of the moonlight . 
It fell upon Huldricksson's staring eyes in them great tears slowly gathered and rolled down his cheeks from his opened mouth came the woe laden wailing . 
I ran to the port and drew the curtains . 
Da Costa snapped the lights . 
The Norseman's dolorous crying stopped as abruptly as though cut . 
His gaze rolled toward us . 
Da Costa shrunk behind me . 
O'Keefe , coolly watchful , took a quick step that brought him in front of me . 
Where do you take me ? said Huldricksson , and his voice was like the growl of a beast . 
Where is my boat ? I touched O'Keefe gently and stood before the giant . 
Listen , Olaf Huldricksson , I said . 
We take you to where the sparkling devil took your Helma and your Freda . 
We follow the sparkling devil that came down from the moon . 
Do you hear me ? I spoke slowly , distinctly , striving to pierce the mists that I knew swirled around the strained brain . 
And the words did pierce . 
He thrust out a shaking hand . 
You say you follow ? he asked falteringly . 
You know where to follow ? Where it took my Helma and my little Freda ? Just that , Olaf Huldricksson , I answered . 
Just that ! I pledge you my life that I know . 
He speaks true , Olaf . 
You go faster on the Suwarna than on the Br rw un'ilda , Olaf , yes . 
The giant Norseman , still gripping my hand , looked at him . 
I know you , Da Costa , he muttered . 
Ja ! You are a fair man . 
Where is the Brunhilda ? She follow be'ind on a big rope , Olaf , soothed the Por tuguese . 
But now lie down an' tell us , if you can , why you tie yourself to your wheel an' what it is that happen , Olaf . 
If you'll tell us how the sparkling devil came it will help us all when we get to where it is , Huldricksson , I said . 
On O'Keefe's face there was an expression of well nigh lu dicrous doubt and amazement . 
He glanced from one to the other . 
The giant shifted his own tense look from me to the Irishman . 
A gleam of approval lighted in his eyes . 
He loosed me , and gripped O'Keefe's arm . 
Ja strong , and with a strong heart . 
A man ja ! He comes too we shall need him ja ! I tell , he muttered , and seated himself on the side of the bunk . 
It was four nights ago . 
My Freda his voice shook Mine Yndling ! She loved the moonlight . 
I was at the wheel and my Freda and my Helma they were behind me . 
The moon was behind us and the Brunhilda was like a swan boat sailing down with the moonlight sending her , ja . 
I heard my Freda say 'I see a nisse coming down the track of the moon . 
And I hear her mother laugh , low , like a mother does when her Yndling dreams . 
I was happy that night with my Helma and my Freda , and the Brunhilda sailing like a swan boat , ja . 
I spun around fast , ja ! I dropped the wheel and spun fast ! I saw He covered his eyes with his hands . 
The Portuguese had crept close to me , and I heard him panting like a frightened dog . 
I saw a white fire spring over the rail , whispered Olaf Huldricksson . 
It whirled round and round , and it shone like like stars in a whirlwind mist . 
There was a noise in my ears . 
It sounded like bells little bells , ja ! Like the music you make when you run your finger round goblets . 
It made me sick and dizzy the hell noise . 
My Helma was indeholde what you say in the mid dle of the white fire . 
She turned her face to me and she turned it on the child , and my Helma's face burned into my heart . 
Because it was full of fear , and it was full of happi ness of glaede . 
I tell you that the fear in my Helma's face made me ice here he beat his breast with clenched hand but the happiness in it burned on me like fire . 
And I could not move I could not move . 
I said in here he touched his head I said , 'It is Loki come out of Helvede . 
But he cannot take my Helma , for Christ lives and Loki has no power to hurt my Helma or my Freda ! Christ lives ! Christ lives ! I said . 
But the sparkling devil did not let my Helma go . 
It drew her to the rail half over it . 
I saw her eyes upon the child and a little she broke away and reached to it . 
And my Freda jumped into her arms . 
I turned the Brunhilda , and I followed where my Helma and mine Yndling had gone . 
My boys crept up and asked me to turn again . 
They dropped a boat and left me . 
I steered straight on the path . 
I lashed my hands to the wheel that sleep might not loose them . 
I have left Him as He left me , ja ! I pray now to Thor and to Odin , who can fetter Loki . 
He sank back , covering again his eyes . 
Olaf , I said , what you have called the sparkling devil has taken ones dear to me . 
I , too , was following it when we found you . 
You shall go with me to its home , and there we will try to take from it your wife and your child and my friends as well . 
But now that you may be strong for what is before us , you must sleep again . 
You speak truth ! he said at last slowly . 
I will do what you say ! He stretched out an arm at my bidding . 
I gave him a sec ond injection . 
He lay back and soon he was sleeping . 
I turned toward Da Costa . 
His face was livid and sweating , and he was trembling pitiably . 
You did that mighty well , Dr . 
So well that I almost believed you myself . 
What did you think of his story , Mr. O'Keefe ? I asked . 
His answer was almost painfully brief and colloquial . 
I was a little shocked , I admit . 
I think he's crazy , Dr . 
Goodwin , he corrected himself , quickly . 
What else could I think ? I turned to the little Portuguese without answering . 
There's no need for any anxiety tonight , Captain , I said . 
Take my word for it . 
You need some rest yourself . 
Shall I give you a sleeping draft ? I do wish you would , Dr . 
Goodwin , sair , he answered gratefully . 
Tomorrow , when I feel bettair I would have a talk with you . 
He did know something then ! I mixed him an opiate of considerable strength . 
He took it and went to his own cabin . 
I locked the door behind him and then , sitting beside the sleeping Norseman , I told O'Keefe my story from end to end . 
He asked few questions as I spoke . 
And now what do you think of it all ? I asked . 
He sat silent for a while , looking at Huldricksson . 
Not what you seem to think , Dr . 
Goodwin , he answered at last , gravely . 
Let me sleep over it . 
One thing of course is certain you and your friend Throckmartin and this man here saw something . 
Goodwin , I'd dearly love to take a crack at your Dweller . 
And another thing , said O'Keefe . 
Good night ! said Larry and took himself out to the deck hammock he had insisted upon having slung for him , re fusing the captain's importunities to use his own cabin . 
And it was with extremely mixed emotions as to his com pliment that I watched him go . 
CHAPTER IX A Lost Page of Earth WHEN I awakened the sun was streaming through the cabin porthole . 
Outside a fresh voice lilted . 
I lay on my two chairs and listened . 
The song was one with the wholesome sunshine and the breeze blowing stiffly and whipping the curtains . 
It was Larry O'Keefe at his matins The little red lark is shaking his wings , Straight from the breast of his love he springs Larry's voice soared . 
His wings and his feathers are sunrise red , He hails the sun and his golden head , Good morning , Doc , you are long abed . 
This last was a most irreverent interpolation , I well knew . 
The Suwarna , her engines silent , was making fine headway under all sail , the Brunhilda skipping in her wake cheerfully with half her canvas up . 
The sea was crisping and dimpling under the wind . 
Blue and white was the world as far as the eye could reach . 
Schools of little silvery green flying fish broke through the water rushing on each side of us flashed for an instant and were gone . 
Behind us gulls hovered and dipped . 
How's the patient ? asked O'Keefe . 
He was answered by Huldricksson himself , who must have risen just as I left the cabin . 
The Norseman had slipped on a pair of pajamas and , giant torso naked under the sun , he strode out upon us . 
We all of us looked at him a trifle anx iously . 
But Olaf's madness had left him . 
In his eyes was much sorrow , but the berserk rage was gone . 
He spoke straight to me You said last night we follow ? I nodded . 
It is where ? he asked again . 
We go first to Ponape and from there to Metalanim Har bour to the Nan Matal . 
You know the place ? Huldricksson bowed a white gleam as of ice showing in his blue eyes . 
It is there ? he asked . 
It is there that we must first search , I answered . 
Good ! said Olaf Huldricksson . 
It is good ! He looked at Da Costa inquiringly and the little Portu guese , following his thought , answered his unspoken ques tion . 
We should be at Ponape tomorrow morning early , Olaf . 
Good ! repeated the Norseman . 
He looked away , his eyes tear filled . 
A restraint fell upon us the embarrassment all men ex perience when they feel a great sympathy and a great pity , to neither of which they quite know how to give expression . 
By silent consent we discussed at breakfast only the most casual topics . 
When the meal was over Huldricksson expressed a desire to go aboard the Brunhilda . 
The Suwarna hove to and Da Costa and he dropped into the small boat . 
When they reached the Brunhilda's deck I saw Olaf take the wheel and the two fall into earnest talk . 
I beckoned to O'Keefe and we stretched ourselves out on the bow hatch under cover of the foresail . 
He lighted a cigarette , took a couple of leisurely puffs , and looked at me expect antly . 
Well , said O'Keefe , suppose you tell me what you think and then I'll proceed to point out your scientific errors . 
Larry , I replied , somewhat severely , you may not know that I have a scientific reputation which , putting aside all modesty , I may say is an enviable one . 
You used a word last night to which I must interpose serious objection . 
You more than hinted that I hid superstitions . 
Let me inform you , Larry O'Keefe , that I am solely a seeker , observer , analyst , and synthesist of facts . 
I am not and I tried to make my tone as pointed as my words I am not a believer in phan toms or spooks , leprechauns , banshees , or ghostly harpers . 
O'Keefe leaned back and shouted with laughter . 
Forgive me , Goodwin , he gasped . 
I know how hard it is , Larry , I answered . 
And don't think I have any idea that the phenomenon is supernatural in the sense spiritualists and table turners have given that word . 
I do think it is supernormal energized by a force un known to modern science but that doesn't mean I think it outside the radius of science . 
Tell me your theory , Goodwin , he said . 
I hesitated for not yet had I been able to put into form to satisfy myself any explanation of the Dweller . 
I think , I hazarded finally , it is possible that some members of that race peopling the ancient continent which we know existed here in the Pacific , have survived . 
We know that many of these islands are honeycombed with caverns and vast subterranean spaces , literally underground lands running in some cases far out beneath the ocean floor . 
It is possible that for some reason survivors of this race sought refuge in the abysmal spaces , one of whose entrances is on the islet where Throckmartin's party met its end . 
As for their persistence in these caverns we know they possessed a high science . 
They may have gone far in the mastery of certain universal forms of energy especially that we call light . 
They may have developed a civilization and a science far more advanced than ours . 
What I call the Dweller may be one of the results of this science . 
Did you ever hear of the Chamats ? I asked him . 
Not only in Papua but through out Malaysia you find this story . 
It was Herbert Spencer who pointed out that there is a basis of fact in every myth and legend of man . 
It is possible that these survivors I am discussing form Spencer's fact basis for the Malaysian legend . 
Still more significant was it that he noted a per sistent rumour that the breaking out of the buried race was close . 
W. J. B. , Pres . 
Wait a minute , Goodwin , interrupted O'Keefe . 
Do you mean to say you think that this thing is made of well of moonshine ? Moonlight , I replied , is , of course , reflected sunlight . 
But the rays which pass back to earth after their impact on the moon's surface are profoundly changed . 
Now these rays , Larry , are given perhaps still another mysterious activity by the globes through which Throck martin said they passed in the Chamber of the Moon Pool . 
The result is the necessary factor in the formation of the Dweller . 
There would be nothing scientifically improbable in such a process . 
Some thing in light and nothing else produced their pseudo vitality . 
We do not begin to know how to harness the potentialities of that magnetic vibration of the ether we call light . 
Listen , Doc , said Larry earnestly , I'll take everything you say about this lost continent , the people who used to live on it , and their caverns , for granted . 
No , Doc , not on your life , even Tennessee moonshine couldn't do that nix ! All right , O'Keefe , I answered , now very much irritated indeed . 
Now don't get me wrong . 
I believe you all saw something all right . 
But what I think you saw was some kind of gas . 
All this region is volcanic and islands and things are con stantly poking up from the sea . 
It's probably gas a volcanic emanation something new to us and that drives you crazy lots of kinds of gas do that . 
Somebody sees something that looks like something else . 
He points it out to the man next him . 
'Do you see it ? asks he . 
'Sure I see it , says the other . 
And there you are collective hallucination . 
When your friends got it bad they most likely jumped overboard one by one . 
Huldricksson sails into a place where it is and it hits his wife . 
She grabs the child and jumps over . 
Maybe the moon rays make it luminous ! I've seen gas on the front under the moon that looked like a thousand whirling dervish devils . 
Yes , and you could see the devil's faces in it . 
And if it got into your lungs nothing could ever make you think you hadn't seen real devils . 
For a time I was silent . 
Larry , I said at last , whether you are right or I am right , I must go to the Nan Matal . 
Will you go with me , Larry ? Goodwin , he replied , I surely will . 
I'm as interested as you are . 
If we don't run across the Dolphin I'll stick . 
I'll leave word at Ponape , to tell them where I am should they come along . 
If they report me dead for a while there's no body to care . 
Only old man , be reasonable . 
You've thought over this so long , you're going bug , honestly you are . 
And again , the gladness that I might have Larry O'Keefe with me , was so great that I forgot to be angry . 
CHAPTER X The Moon Pool DA COSTA , who had come aboard unnoticed by either of us , now tapped me on the arm . 
Doctair Goodwin , he said , can I see you in my cabin , sair ? At last , then , he was going to speak . 
Doctair , he said , when we had entered , this is a veree strange thing that has happened to Olaf . 
An' the natives of Ponape , they have been very much excite' lately . 
Of what they fear I know nothing , nothing ! Again that quick , furtive crossing of himself . 
But this I have to tell you . 
There came to me from Ranaloa last month a man , a Russian , a doctair , like you . 
His name it was Marakinoff . 
I take him to Ponape an' the natives there they will not take him to the Nan Matal where he wish to go no ! So I take him . 
We leave in a boat , wit' much instrument carefully tied up . 
I leave him there wit' the boat an' the food . 
He tell me to tell no one an' pay me not to . 
But you are a friend an' Olaf he depend much upon you an' so I tell you , sair . 
You know nothing more than this , Da Costa ? I asked . 
Nothing of another expedition ? No , he shook his head vehemently . 
Hear the name Throckmartin while you were there ? I persisted . 
No , his eyes were steady as he answered but the pallor had crept again into his face . 
I was not so sure . 
But if he knew more than he had told me why was he afraid to speak ? My anxiety deepened and later I sought relief from it by repeating the conversation to O'Keefe . 
A Russian , eh , he said . 
Well , they can be damned nice , or damned otherwise . 
Considering what you did for me , I hope I can look him over before the Dolphin shows up . 
Next morning we raised Ponape , without further incident , and before noon the Suwarna and the Brunhilda had dropped anchor in the harbour . 
Upon the excitement and manifest dread of the natives , when we sought among them for car riers and workmen to accompany us , I will not dwell . 
It is enough to say that no payment we offered could induce a single one of them to go to the Nan Matal . 
Nor would they say why . 
Finally it was agreed that the Brunhilda should be left in charge of a half breed Chinaman , whom both Da Costa and Huldricksson knew and trusted . 
We piled her long boat up with my instruments and food and camping equipment . 
It was a stillness , such as might follow the long tramping of millions into the grave it was paradoxical as it may be filled with the withdrawal of life . 
Standing down in the chambered depths of the Great Pyramid I had known something of such silence but never such intensity as this . 
Larry felt it and I saw him look at me askance . 
In front of us the mangroves widened out and filled the acanal . 
On our right the lesser walls of Tau , sombre blocks smoothed and squared and set with a cold , mathematical nicety that filled me with vague awe , slipped by . 
Through breaks I caught glimpses of dark ruins and of great fallen stones that seemed to crouch and menace us , as we passed . 
Somewhere there , hidden , were the seven globes that poured the moon fire down upon the Moon Pool . 
Now we were among the mangroves and , sail down , the three of us pushed and pulled the boat through their tangled roots and branches . 
The noise of our passing split the silence like a profanation , and from the ancient bastions came mur murs forbidding , strangely sinister . 
And now we were through , floating on a little open space of shadow filled water . 
None of us spoke as we grounded the boat and dragged it upon a half submerged pier . 
And when we did speak it was in whispers . 
What next ? asked Larry . 
I think we ought to take a look around , I replied in the same low tones . 
We'll climb the wall here and take a flash about . 
The whole place ought to be plain as day from that height . 
Huldricksson , his blue eyes alert , nodded . 
With the great est difficulty we clambered up the broken blocks . 
On none was there sign of life , save for a few great birds that hovered here and there , and gulls dipping in the blue waves beyond . 
We turned our gaze down upon the island on which we stood . 
It was , I estimated , about three quarters of a mile square . 
The sea wall enclosed it . 
it was really an enormous basalt sided open cube , and within it two other open cubes . 
The enclosure between the first and second wall was stone paved , with here and there a broken pillar and long stone benches . 
The hibiscus , the aloe tree , and a number of small shrubs had found place , but seemed only to intensify its stark loneliness . 
Wonder where the Russian can be ? asked Larry . 
There was no sign of life here . 
We scram bled down the side of the gateway . 
Olaf looked at me wist fully . 
We start the search now , Olaf , I said . 
And first , O'Keefe , let us see whether the grey stone is really here . 
After that we will set up camp , and while I unpack , you and Olaf search the island . 
Larry gave a look at his service automatic and grinned . 
Lead on , Macduff , he said . 
But if not And there before us , the faintest tinge of grey setting it apart from its neighbouring blocks of basalt , was the moon door ! There was no mistaking it . 
This was , in very deed , the portal through which Throckmartin had seen pass that glori ously dreadful apparition he called the Dweller . 
At its base was the curious , seemingly polished cup like depression within which , my lost friend had told me , the opening door swung . 
A faint thrill passed through my hand and arm , oddly unfamiliar and as oddly unpleasant as of electric con tact holding the very essence of cold . 
O'Keefe , watching , imitated my action . 
As his fingers rested on the stone his face filled with astonishment . 
It's the door ? he asked . 
There was a low whistle from him and he pointed up toward the top of the grey stone . 
I followed the gesture and saw , above the moon door and on each side of it , two gently curving bosses of rock , perhaps a foot in diameter . 
The moon door's keys , I said . 
It begins to look so , answered Larry . 
If we can find them , he added . 
There's nothing we can do till moonrise , I replied . 
And we've none too much time to prepare as it is . 
Come ! A little later we were beside our boat . 
We lightered it , set up the tent , and as it was now but a short hour to sun down I bade them leave me and make their search . 
They went off together , and I busied myself with opening some of the paraphernalia I had brought with me . 
First of all I took out the two Becquerel ray condensers that I had bought in Sydney . 
Their lenses would collect and intensify to the fullest extent any light directed upon them . 
I took out also a small spectroscope , and a few other in struments for the analysis of certain light manifestations and the testing of metal and liquid . 
Finally , I put aside my emergency medical kit . 
I had hardly finished examining and adjusting these be fore O'Keefe and Huldricksson returned . 
They reported signs of a camp at least ten days old beside the northern wall of the outer court , but beyond that no evidence of others beyond ourselves on Nan Tauach . 
We prepared supper , ate and talked a little , but for the most part were silent . 
Even Larry's high spirits were not in evidence half a dozen times I saw him take out his auto matic and look it over . 
He was more thoughtful than I had ever seen him . 
He passed the gun over to Olaf . 
At last a glow in the southeast heralded the rising moon . 
By this time the moon had risen and its clipped light shone full upon the slab . 
I saw faint gleams pass over it as of fleet ing phosphorescence but so faint were they that I could not be sure of the truth of my observation . 
We set the ladders in place . 
Olaf I assigned to stand be fore the door and watch for the first signs of its opening if open it should . 
The Becquerels were set within three inch tripods , whose feet I had equipped with vacuum rings to enable them to hold fast to the rock . 
I scaled one ladder and fastened a condenser over the boss descended sent Larry up to watch it , and , ascending the second ladder , rapidly fixed the other in its place . 
Then , with O'Keefe watchful on his perch , I on mine , and Olaf's eyes fixed upon the moon door , we began our vigil . 
Suddenly there was an exclamation from Larry . 
MERRITT Seven little lights are beginning to glow on this stone ! he cried . 
But I had already seen those beneath my lens begin to gleam out with a silvery lustre . 
Beneath me I heard a faint , sighing murmur and then the voice of Huldricksson It opens the stone turns I began to climb down the ladder . 
The moon door was wide open , and through it I caught a glimpse of a corridor filled with a faint , pearly vaporous light like earliest misty dawn . 
And the moon door began to pivot slowly , slowly back into its place ! I rushed toward the turning stone with the wild idea of holding it open . 
As I leaped I felt the closing edge of the moon door graze my side . 
It was barred by a solid mass of glimmering stone . 
The moon door had closed ! O'Keefe took a stumbling step toward the barrier behind us . 
There was no mark of juncture with the shining walls the slab fitted into the sides as closely as a mosaic . 
It's shut all right , said Larry . 
But if there's a way in , there's a way out . 
Anyway , Doc , we're right in the pew we've been heading for so why worry ? He grinned at me cheer fully . 
The man on the floor groaned , and he dropped to his knees beside him . 
At my exclamation he moved aside , turning the face so I could see it . 
It was clearly Russian , and just as clearly its possessor was one of unusual force and intellect . 
Couldn't be anybody else , said Larry , breaking in on my thoughts . 
He must have been watching us over there from Chau ta leur's vault all the time . 
Swiftly he ran practised hands over his body then stood erect , holding out to me two wicked looking magazine pis tols and a knife . 
He got one of my bullets through his right forearm , too , he said . 
Just a flesh wound , but it made him drop his rifle . 
Some arsenal , our little Russian scientist , what ? I opened my medical kit . 
The wound was a slight one , and Larry stood looking on as I bandaged it . 
Got another one of those condensers ? he asked , sud denly . 
And do you suppose Olaf will know enough to use it ? Larry , I answered , Olaf's not outside ! He's in here somewhere ! His jaw dropped . 
The hell you say ! he whispered . 
Didn't you hear him shriek when the stone opened ? I asked . 
I heard him yell , yes , he said . 
But I didn't know what was the matter . 
And then this wildcat jumped me He paused and his eyes widened . 
Which way did he go ? he asked swiftly . 
I pointed down the faintly glowing passage . 
There's only one way , I said . 
Watch that bird close , hissed O'Keefe , pointing to Mara kinoff and pistol in hand stretched his long legs and raced away . 
I looked down at the Russian . 
His eyes were open , and he reached out a hand to me . 
I lifted him to his feet . 
I have heard , he said . 
Marakinoff was gasping , and his weight pressed upon me heavily , but he moved with all the will and strength that were in him . 
As we ran I took hasty note of the tunnel . 
The passage turned , twisted , ran down , turned again . 
It came to me that the light that illumined the tunnel was given out by tiny points deep within the stone , sprang from the points ripplingly and spread upon their polished faces . 
There was a cry from Larry far ahead . 
Olaf ! I gripped Marakinoff's arm closer and we sped on . 
Now we were coming fast to the end of the passage . 
Before us was a high arch , and through it I glimpsed a dim , shifting luminosity as of mist filled with rainbows . 
We reached the portal and I looked into a chamber that might have been transported from that enchanted palace of the Jinn King that rises beyond the magic mountains of Kaf . 
Before me stood O'Keefe and a dozen feet in front of him , Huldricksson , with something clasped tightly in his arms . 
The Norseman's feet were at the verge of a shining , silvery lip of stone within whose oval lay a blue pool . 
And as he did so he moaned and lurched against the little body that lay before him . 
Instantly the form moved and slipped over the verge into the blue . 
Catch him ! shouted the Russian . 
You have nitroglycerin there , yes ? he asked , pointing toward my medical kit that I had gripped unconsciously and carried with me during the mad rush down the passage . 
I nodded and drew it out . 
Hypodermic , he ordered next , curtly took the syringe , filled it accurately with its one one hundredth of a grain dosage , and leaned over Huldricksson . 
He rolled up the sailor's sleeves half way to the shoulder . 
Above the line of white , Marakinoff thrust the needle . 
He will need all his heart can do , he said to me . 
Then he reached down into a belt about his waist and drew from it a small , flat flask of what seemed to be lead . 
He opened it and let a few drops of its contents fall on each arm of the Norwegian . 
The liquid sparkled and instantly began to spread over the skin much as oil or gasoline dropped on water does only far more rapidly . 
And as it spread it drew a sparkling film over the marbled flesh and little wisps of vapour rose from it . 
The Norseman's mighty chest heaved with agony . 
The Russian gave a grunt of satisfaction at this , dropped a little more of the liquid , and then , watching closely , grunted again and leaned back . 
Hul dricksson's laboured breathing ceased , his head dropped upon Larry's knee , and from his arms and hands the white ness swiftly withdrew . 
Marakinoff arose and contemplated us almost benevo lently . 
He will all right be in five minutes , he said . 
I do it to pay for that shot of mine , and also because we will need him . 
You have a poonch like a mule kick , my young friend , he said . 
Some time you pay me for that , too , eh ? He smiled and the quality of the grimace was not exactly reassuring . 
Larry looked him over quizzically . 
You're Marakinoff , of course , he said . 
The Russian nodded , betraying no surprise at the recognition . 
And you ? he asked . 
Lieutenant O'Keefe of the Royal Flying Corps , replied Larry , saluting . 
And this gentleman is Dr . 
The American botanist ? he queried . 
Ah , cried Marakinoff eagerly , but this is fortunate . 
Long I have desired to meet you . 
Your work , for an Amer ican , is most excellent surprising . 
But you are wrong in your theory of the development of the Angiospermae from Cycadeoidea dacotensis . 
Da all wrong I was interrupting him with considerable heat , for my conclusions from the fossil Cycadeoidea I knew to be my greatest triumph , when Larry broke in upon me rudely . 
HELL ! Marakinoff again regarded him with that irritating air of benevolence . 
You have not the scientific mind , young friend , he said . 
The poonch , yes ! But so has the mule . 
You must learn that only the fact is important not you , not me , not this he pointed to Huldricksson or its sorrows . 
Only the fact , whatever it is , is real , yes . 
But he turned to me another time Huldricksson interrupted him . 
The big seaman had risen stiffly to his feet and stood with Larry's arm supporting him . 
He stretched out his hands to me . 
I saw her , he whispered . 
I saw mine Freda when the stone swung . 
She lay there just at my feet . 
I picked her up and I saw that mine Freda was dead . 
But I hoped and I thought maybe mine Helma was somewhere here , too , So I ran with mine yndling here His voice broke . 
I thought maybe she was NOT dead , he went on . 
And I saw that he pointed to the Moon Pool and I thought I would bathe her face and she might live again . 
And when I dipped my hands within the life left them , and cold , deadly cold , ran up through them into my heart . 
And mine Freda she fell he covered his eyes , and dropping his head on O'Keefe's shoulder , stood , racked by sobs that seemed to tear at his very soul . 
CHAPTER XI The Flame Tipped Shadows MARAKINOFF nodded his head solemnly as Olaf finished . 
That which comes from here took them both the woman and the child . 
Da ! They came clasped within it and the stone shut upon them . 
But why it left the child behind I do not understand . 
How do you know that ? I cried in amazement . 
Because I saw it , answered Marakinoff simply . 
Not only did I see it , but hardly had I time to make escape through the entrance before it passed whirling and murmur ing and its bell sounds all joyous . 
Da ! It was what you call the squeak close , that . 
Wait a moment , I said stilling Larry with a gesture . 
Do I understand you to say that you were within this place ? Marakinoff actually beamed upon me . 
I have a proposal to make to you also . 
It is this we are what you call a bad boat , and all of us are in it . 
After that All very well , Marakinoff , interjected Larry , but I don't feel very safe in any boat with somebody capable of shoot ing me through the back . 
Marakinoff waved a deprecatory hand . 
I do not apologize and I do not explain , rasped Mara kinoff . 
But I will tell you , da ! Here is my country sweating blood in an experiment to liberate the world . 
And here are the other nations ringing us like wolves and waiting to spring at our throats at the least sign of weakness . 
And here are you , Lieutenant O'Keefe of the English wolves , and you Dr . 
Goodwin of the Yankee pack and here in this place may be that will enable my country to win its war for the worker . 
But that is not now the important thing , he resumed , almost coldly . 
Not that nor my shooting . 
Let us squarely the situation face . 
And when that is done we will go our ways , to his own land each , to make use of them for our lands as each of us may . 
On my part , I offer my knowledge and it is very valuable , Dr . 
We're three to his one , and we have all his hardware and cutlery . 
But also we can do better with him than without him just as he can do better with us than without us . 
It's an even break for a while . 
But once he gets that information he's looking for , then look out . 
You and Olaf and I are the wolves and the flies and the midges again and the strafing will be about due . 
Nevertheless , with three to one against him , if he can get away with it he deserves to . 
I'm for taking him up , if you are . 
There was almost a twinkle in Marakinoff's eyes . 
It is not just as I would have put it , perhaps , he said , but in its skeleton he has right . 
Nor will I turn my hand against you while we are still in danger here . 
I pledge you my honor on this . 
All right , Professor , he grinned . 
I believe you mean every word you say . 
Nevertheless , I'll just keep the guns . 
And now , he said , I will tell you what I know . 
I found the secret of the door mechanism even as you did , Dr . 
But by carelessness , my condensers were broken . 
I was forced to wait while I sent for others and the waiting might be for months . 
I took certain precautions , and on the first night of this full moon I hid myself within the vault of Chau ta leur . 
An involuntary thrill of admiration for the man went through me at the manifest heroism of this leap in the dark . 
I could see it reflected in Larry's face . 
I hid in the vault , continued Marakinoff , and I saw that which comes from here come out . 
At last , when the moon was low , it returned ecstatically with a man , a native , in embrace enfolded . 
It passed through the door , and soon then the moon became low and the door closed . 
The next night more confidence was mine , yes . 
And after that which comes had gone , I looked through its open door . 
I said , It will not return for three hours . 
While it is away , why shall I not into its home go through the door it has left open ? So I went even to here . 
I looked at the pillars of light and I tested the liquid of the Pool on which they fell . 
Goodwin , is not water , and it is not any fluid known on earth . 
He handed me a small vial , its neck held in a long thong . 
Take this , he said , and see . 
Wonderingly , I took the bottle dipped it down into the Pool . 
The liquid was extraordinarily light seemed , in fact , to give the vial buoyancy . 
I held it to the light . 
It was striated , streaked , as though little living , pulsing veins ran through it . 
And its blueness , even in the vial , held an intensity of lumi nousness . 
Some liquid that is in tensely radioactive but what it is I know not at all . 
Upon the living skin it acts like radium raised to the nth power and with an element most mysterious added . 
The solution with which I treated him , he pointed to Huldricksson , I had prepared before I came here , from certain information I had . 
It is largely salts of radium and its base is Loeb's formula for the neutralization of radium and X ray burns . 
Taking this man at once , before the degeneration had be come really active , I could negative it . 
But after two hours I could have done nothing . 
Next I studied the nature of these luminous walls . 
That which comes forth returned this time empty handed . 
And the next night I did the same thing . 
And now what is it you know ? Very briefly I went over my story . 
His eyes gleamed now and then , but he did not interrupt me . 
A great secret ! A colossal secret ! he muttered , when I had ended . 
We cannot leave it hidden . 
The first thing to do is to try the door , said Larry , mat ter of fact . 
There is no use , my young friend , assured Marakinoff mildly . 
Nevertheless we'll try , said Larry . 
We retraced our way through the winding tunnel to the end , but soon even O'Keefe saw that any idea of moving the slab from within was hopeless . 
We returned to the Chamber of the Pool . 
The pillars of light were fainter , and we knew that the moon was sinking . 
On the world outside before long dawn would be breaking . 
I began to feel thirst and the blue semblance of water within the silvery rim seemed to glint mockingly as my eyes rested on it . 
Da ! it was Marakinoff , reading my thoughts uncannily . 
Da ! We will be thirsty . 
And it will be very bad for him of us who loses control and drinks of that , my friend . 
Da ! Larry threw back his shoulders as though shaking a burden from them . 
This place would give an angel of joy the willies , he said . 
I suggest that we look around and find something that will take us somewhere . 
You can bet the people that built it had more ways of getting in than that once a month family entrance . 
Doc , you and Olaf take the left wall the professor and I will take the right . 
He loosened one of his automatics with a suggestive move ment . 
After you , Professor , he bowed , politely , to the Russian . 
We parted and set forth . 
The chamber widened out from the portal in what seemed to be the arc of an immense circle . 
The shining walls held a perceptible curve , and from this curvature I estimated that the roof was fully three hundred feet above us . 
The floor was of smooth , mosaic fitted blocks of a faintly yellow tinge . 
They were not light emitting like the blocks that formed the walls . 
Now before us , out from the wall , jutted a low terrace . 
It was all of a pearly rose coloured stone , slender , graceful pil lars of the same hue . 
We passed along the terrace . 
It turned in an abrupt curve . 
I heard a hail , and there , fifty feet away , at the curving end of a wall identical with that where we stood , were Larry and Marakinoff . 
Obviously the left side of the chamber was a duplicate of that we had explored . 
In front of us the columned barriers ran back a hundred feet , forming an alcove . 
The end of this alcove was another wall of the same rose stone , but upon it the design of vines was much heavier . 
We took a step forward there was a gasp of awe from the Norseman , a guttural exclamation from Marakinoff . 
The two figures , although as real as any of those who stood beside me , un phantomlike as it is possible to be , had a distinct suggestion of projection . 
The gigantic eyes of the frog woman took us all in unwinkingly . 
Little glints of phosphorescence shone out within the metallic green of the outer iris ring . 
But if the frog woman regarded us all , not so did the maiden of the rosy wall . 
Her eyes were fastened upon Larry , drinking him in with extraordinary intentness . 
She was tall , far over the average of women , almost as tall , indeed , as O'Keefe himself not more than twenty years old , if that , I thought . 
Abruptly she leaned forward , the golden eyes softened and grew tender the red lips moved as though she were speaking . 
Larry took a quick step , and his face was that of one who after countless births comes at last upon the twin soul lost to him for ages . 
Three times she pressed the flowers , and then looked in tently at Larry once more . 
A slow , sweet smile curved the crimson lips . 
She stretched both hands out toward him again eagerly a burning blush rose swiftly over white breasts and flowerlike face . 
But from the Stegocephalia of the order Ecaudata Never such a complete indignation as was in O'Keefe's voice as he interrupted . 
What do you mean fossils and Stego whatever it is ? he asked . 
His eyes were wild as he regarded us . 
Larry paused , stretched his hand up to the flowers on which the tapering fingers of the golden eyed girl had rested . 
It was here she put up her hand , he murmured . 
We follow Golden Eyes , he said to me . 
Follow ? I echoed stupidly . 
At our right , a few feet away , the passage ended abruptly in a square of polished stone , from which came faint rose radiance . 
The roof of the place was less than two feet over O'Keefe's head . 
Olaf beside him , he strode to the wall and peered over . 
Flash your pocket light down there , be said to me , point ing into the thick darkness below us . 
The little electric circle quivered down as though afraid , and came to rest upon a surface that resembled nothing so much as clear , black ice . 
I ran the light across here and there . 
The floor of the corridor was of a substance so smooth , so polished , that no man could have walked upon it it sloped downward at a slowly increas ing angle . 
We'd have to have non skid chains and brakes on our feet to tackle that , mused Larry . 
Abstractedly be ran his hands over the edge on which he was leaning . 
Suddenly they hesitated and then gripped tightly . 
That's a queer one ! he exclaimed . 
His right palm was resting upon a rounded protuberance , on the side of which were three small circular indentations . 
A queer one he repeated and pressed his fingers upon the circles . 
And then the speed began to slacken . 
Millions of miles , it seemed , below the sound of the un earthly hurricane I heard Larry's voice , thin and ghostlike , beneath its clamour . 
Got it ! shrilled the voice . 
Got it ! Don't worry ! The wind died down to the roar , passed back into the whistling shriek and diminished to a steady whisper . 
In the comparative quiet O'Keefe's tones now came in normal volume . 
Some little shoot the chutes , what ? he shouted . 
Say if they had this at Coney Island or the Crystal Palace ! Press all the way in these holes and she goes top high . 
The curve of this dashboard here sends the wind shooting up over our heads like a windshield . 
What's behind you ? I flashed the light back . 
The mechanism on which we were ended in another wall exactly similar to that over which O'Keefe crouched . 
Well , we can't fall out , anyway , he laughed . 
O'Keefe's fingers must have pressed down upon the controls , for we leaped forward almost with the speed of light . 
Trolldom ! croaked the voice of Olaf . 
Chert ! This from Marakinoff . 
What a space ! Have you considered , Dr . 
I was thinking about that frog . 
I think it was her pet . 
Damn me if I see any difference between a frog and a snake , and one of the nicest women I ever knew had two pet pythons that followed her around like kittens . 
Get me ? By which I knew that our remarks upon the frog woman were still bothering O'Keefe . 
He thinks of foolish nothings like the foolish sailor ! grunted Marakinoff , acid contempt in his words . 
Far ahead a point of light showed grew steadily we were within it and softly all movement ceased . 
How acute had been the strain of our journey I did not realize until I tried to stand and sank back , leg muscles too shaky to bear my weight . 
The car rested in a slit in the centre of a smooth walled chamber perhaps twenty feet square . 
The wall facing us was pierced by a low doorway through which we could see a flight of steps leading downward . 
The light streamed through a small opening , the base of which was twice a tall man's height from the floor . 
A curving flight of broad , low steps led up to it . 
And now it came to my steadying brain that there was something puzzling , peculiar , strangely unfamiliar about this light . 
The light cast no shadows ! A little breeze came through the oval and played about us . 
It was laden with what seemed the mingled breath of spice flowers and pines . 
It was curiously vivifying , and in it the diamonded atoms of light shook and danced . 
I stepped out of the car , the Russian following , and began to ascend the curved steps toward the opening , at the top of which O'Keefe and Olaf already stood . 
As they looked out I saw both their faces change Olaf's with awe , O'Keefe's with incredulous amaze . 
I hurried to their side . 
At first all that I could see was space a space filled with the same coruscating effulgence that pulsed about me . 
I glanced upward , obeying that instinctive impulse of earth folk that bids them seek within the sky for sources of light . 
My eyes fell beneath its splendour I stared out ward . 
Miles away , gigantic luminous cliffs sprang sheer from the limits of a lake whose waters were of milky opalescence . 
It was from these cliffs that the spangled radiance came , shimmering out from all their lustrous surfaces . 
To left and to right , as far as the eye could see , they stretched and they vanished in the auroral nebulosity on high ! Look at that ! exclaimed Larry . 
I followed his pointing finger . 
On the face of the shining wall , stretched between two colossal columns , hung an incredible veil prismatic , gleam ing with all the colours of the spectrum . 
It was like a web of rainbows woven by the fingers of the daughters of the Jinn . 
In front of it and a little at each side was a semi circular pier , or , better , a plaza of what appeared to be glistening , pale yellow ivory . 
At each end of its half circle clustered a few low walled , rose stone structures , each of them sur mounted by a number of high , slender pinnacles . 
We looked at each other , I think , a bit helplessly and back again through the opening . 
We were standing , as I have said , at its base . 
Let's take a look at what's under us , said Larry . 
He crept out upon the ledge and peered down , the rest of us following . 
Within them flowers and groves of laced , fern like trees , pillared pavilions nestled . 
The trunks of the trees were of emerald , of vermilion , and of azure blue , and the blossoms , whose fragrance was borne to us , shone like jewels . 
The graceful pillars were tinted delicately . 
Within them were human figures ! And upon tree bordered prome nades on each side walked others ! Far to the right we caught the glint of another emerald paved road . 
And between the two the gardens grew sweetly down to the hither side of that opalescent water across which were the radiant cliffs and the curtain of mystery . 
Incredible ! Trolldom ! gasped Olaf Huldricksson . 
It is Trolldom ! Listen , Olaf ! said Larry . 
Cut out that Trolldom stuff ! There's no Trolldom , or fairies , outside Ireland . 
Get that ! And this isn't Ireland . 
And , buck up , Professor ! This to Marakinoff . 
What you see down there are people JUST PLAIN PEOPLE . 
And wherever there's people is where I live . 
Get me ? There's no way in but in and no way out but out , said O'Keefe . 
Eggs are eggs no matter how they're cooked and people are just people , fellow travellers , no matter what dish they are in , he concluded . 
Come on ! With the three of us close behind him , he marched toward the entrance . 
CHAPTER XIII Yolara , Priestess of the Shining One YOU'D better have this handy , Doc . 
O'Keefe paused at the head of the stairway and handed me one of the automatics he had taken from Marakinoff . 
Shall I not have one also ? rather anxiously asked the latter . 
When you need it you'll get it , answered O'Keefe . 
I'll tell you frankly , though , Professor , that you'll have to show me before I trust you with a gun . 
You shoot too straight from cover . 
The flash of anger in the Russian's eyes turned to a cold consideration . 
You say always just what is in your mind , Lieutenant O'Keefe , he mused . 
Da that I shall remember ! Later I was to recall this odd observation and Marakinoff was to remember indeed . 
In single file , O'Keefe at the head and Olaf bringing up the rear , we passed through the portal . 
The stairway ended in a circular well silent with no trace of exit ! The rounded stones joined each other evenly hermetically . 
Carved on one of the slabs was one of the five flowered vines . 
I pressed my fingers upon the calyxes , even as Larry had within the Moon Chamber . 
It reached the level of our feet and stopped . 
Nowhere to go but out ! grinned Larry . 
And I'll bet Golden Eyes is waiting for us with a taxi ! He stepped for ward . 
We stood upon a wide ledge carpeted with a thick yellow moss . 
I looked behind and clutched O'Keefe's arm . 
Nowhere to go but ahead and Golden Eyes hasn't kept her date ! laughed O'Keefe but somewhat grimly . 
We walked a few yards along the ledge and , rounding a corner , faced the end of one of the slender bridges . 
From this vantage point the oddly shaped vehicles were plain , and we could see they were , indeed , like the shell of the Nautilus and elfinly beautiful . 
Their drivers sat high upon the forward whorl . 
Their bodies were piled high with cushions , upon which lay women half swathed in gay silken webs . 
From the pavilioned gardens smaller channels of glistening green ran into the broad way , much as automobile runways do on earth and in and out of them flashed the fairy shells . 
There came a shout from one . 
Its occupants had glimpsed us . 
They pointed others stopped and stared one shell turned and sped up a runway and quickly over the other side of the bridge came a score of men . 
They were dwarfed none of them more than five feet high , prodigiously broad of shoulder , clearly enormously powerful . 
Trolde ! muttered Olaf , stepping beside O'Keefe , pistol swinging free in his hand . 
But at the middle of the bridge the leader stopped , waved back his men , and came toward us alone , palms outstretched in the immemorial , universal gesture of truce . 
He paused , scanning us with manifest wonder we returned the scrutiny with interest . 
Dwarfed though he was , there was no suggestion of de formity about him . 
The gigantic shoulders were covered with a loose green tunic that looked like fine linen . 
It was caught in at the waist by a broad girdle studded with what seemed to be amazonites . 
In it was thrust a long curved poniard resembling the Malaysian kris . 
His legs were swathed in the same green cloth as the upper garment . 
He spoke and , to my surprise , enough of the words were familiar to enable me clearly to catch the meaning of the whole . 
They were Polynesian , the Polynesian of the Samoans which is its most ancient form , but in some indefinable way archaic . 
Later I was to know that the tongue bore the same relation to the Polynesian of today as does NOT that of Chaucer , but of the Venerable Bede , to modern English . 
Nor was this to be so astonishing , when with the knowledge came the certainty that it was from it the language we call Poly nesian sprang . 
From whence do you come , strangers and how found you your way here ? said the green dwarf . 
I waved my hand toward the cliff behind us . 
His eyes nar rowed incredulously he glanced at its drop , upon which even a mountain goat could not have made its way , and laughed . 
We came through the rock , I answered his thought . 
And we come in peace , I added . 
And may peace walk with you , he said half derisively if the Shining One wills it ! He considered us again . 
Show me , strangers , where you came through the rock , he commanded . 
We led the way to where we had emerged from the well of the stairway . 
It was here , I said , tapping the cliff . 
But I see no opening , he said suavely . 
It closed behind us , I answered and then , for the first time , realized how incredible the explanation sounded . 
The derisive gleam passed through his eyes again . 
But he drew his poniard and gravely sounded the rock . 
You give a strange turn to our speech , he said . 
It sounds strangely , indeed as strange as your answers . 
He looked at us quizzically . 
I wonder where you learned it ! Well , all that you can explain to the Afyo Maie . 
His head bowed and his arms swept out in a wide salaam . 
Be pleased to come with me ! he ended abruptly . 
In peace ? I asked . 
In peace , he replied then slowly with me at least . 
Oh , come on , Doc ! cried Larry . 
As long as we're here let's see the sights . 
Allons mon vieux ! he called gaily to the green dwarf . 
Lugur will welcome you , at least , he murmured as though to himself . 
He stood aside and waved a hand courte ously , inviting us to pass . 
At the base of the span one of the elfin shells was waiting . 
Beyond , scores had gathered , their occupants evidently discussing us in much excitement . 
The green dwarf waved us to the piles of cushions and then threw himself beside us . 
As we flew along I tried to discover the source of the power , but I could not then . 
We turned abruptly and swept up a runway through one of the gardens , and stopped softly before a pillared pavilion . 
I saw now that these were much larger than I had thought . 
The structure to which we had been carried covered , I esti mated , fully an acre . 
Oblong , with its slender , vari coloured columns spaced regularly , its walls were like the sliding screens of the Japanese shoji . 
The green dwarf hurried us up a flight of broad steps flanked by great carved serpents , winged and scaled . 
They sauntered up to us leisurely the surprised interest in their faces tempered by the same inhumanly gay malice that seemed to be characteristic of all these people we had as yet seen . 
The Afyo Maie awaits them , Rador , said one . 
I examined the blackness with lively interest . 
It had neither substance nor texture it was not matter and yet it suggested solidity an entire cessation , a complete absorption of light an ebon veil at once immaterial and pal pable . 
I stretched , involuntarily , my hand out toward it , and felt it quickly drawn back . 
Do you seek your end so soon ? whispered Rador . 
But I forget you do not know , he added . 
On your life touch not the blackness , ever . 
It He stopped , for abruptly in the density a portal appeared swinging out of the shadow like a picture thrown by a lan tern upon a screen . 
Through it was revealed a chamber filled with a soft rosy glow . 
Rising from cushioned couches , a woman and a man regarded us , half leaning over a long , low table of what seemed polished jet , laden with flowers and unfamiliar fruits . 
About the room that part of it , at least , that I could see were a few oddly shaped chairs of the same substance . 
On high , silvery tripods three immense globes stood , and it was from them that the rose glow emanated . 
At the side of the woman was a smaller globe whose roseate gleam was tem pered by quivering waves of blue . 
Enter Rador with the strangers ! a clear , sweet voice called . 
Rador bowed deeply and stood aside , motioning us to pass . 
Be not afraid ! commanded the bell toned voice . 
The woman , sober scientist that I am , made the breath catch in my throat . 
Never had I seen a woman so beautiful as was Yolara of the Dweller's city and none of so perilous a beauty . 
The girl of the rose wall had been beautiful , yes ! But her beauty was human , understandable . 
You could imagine her with a babe in her arms but you could not so imagine this woman . 
About her loveliness hovered something unearthly . 
For the first time my eyes took in Lugur . 
A few inches taller than the green dwarf , he was far broader , more filled with the suggestion of appalling strength . 
The tremendous shoulders were four feet wide if an inch , tapering down to mighty thewed thighs . 
The muscles of his chest stood out beneath his tunic of red . 
Around his forehead shone a chaplet of bright blue stones , sparkling among the thick curls of his silver ash hair . 
Upon his face pride and ambition were written large and power still larger . 
All the mockery , the malice , the hint of callous indifference that I had noted in the other dwarfish men were there , too but intensified , touched with the satanic . 
Who are you strangers , and how came you here ? She turned to Rador . 
Or is it that they do not understand our tongue ? One understands and speaks it but very badly , O Yolara , answered the green dwarf . 
Speak , then , that one of you , she commanded . 
But it was Marakinoff who found his voice first , and I marvelled at the fluency , so much greater than mine , with which he spoke . 
We came for different purposes . 
I to seek knowledge of a kind he pointing to me of another . 
This man he looked at Olaf to find a wife and child . 
The grey blue eyes had been regarding O'Keefe steadily and with plainly increasing interest . 
And why did YOU come ? she asked him . 
Nay I would have him speak for himself , if he can , she stilled Marakinoff peremptorily . 
When Larry spoke it was haltingly , in the tongue that was strange to him , searching for the proper words . 
I could find fault with your speech , but none with its burden , she said . 
What forest pools are I know not , and the dawn has not shone upon the people of Lora these many sais of laya . 
Thirteen of these shinings forth constituted a laya , one of them a lat . 
Ten was sa ten times ten times ten a said , or thousand ten times a thousand was a sais . 
A sais of laya was then literally ten thousand years . 
What we would call an hour was by them called a va . 
The eyes deepened to blue as she regarded him . 
Are there many like you in the world from which you come ? she asked softly . 
Well , we soon shall Lugur interrupted her almost rudely and glowering . 
Best we should know how they came hence , he growled . 
She darted a quick look at him , and again the little devils danced in her wondrous eyes . 
Unquestionably there is a subtle difference between time as we know it and time in this subterranean land its progress there being slower . 
I tried often to measure this difference , but could never do so to my entire satisfaction . 
The closest I can come to it is to say that an hour of our time is the equivalent of an hour and five eighths in Muria . 
For further information upon this matter of relativity the reader may consult any of the numerous books upon the subject . 
W. T. G. Yes , that is true , she said . 
How came you here ? Again it was Marakinoff who answered slowly , consider ing every word . 
In the world above , he said , there are ruins of cities not built by any of those who now dwell there . 
To us these places called , and we sought for knowledge of the wise ones who made them . 
The way led us downward to a door in yonder cliff , and through it we came here . 
Then have you found what you sought ? spoke she . 
For we are of those who built the cities . 
But this gateway in the rock where is it ? After we passed , it closed upon us nor could we after find trace of it , answered Marakinoff . 
The incredulity that had shown upon the face of the green dwarf fell upon theirs on Lugur's it was clouded with furious anger . 
I could find no opening , lord , said the green dwarf quickly . 
And there was so fierce a fire in the eyes of Lugur as he swung back upon us that O'Keefe's hand slipped stealthily down toward his pistol . 
Best it is to speak truth to Yolara , priestess of the Shining One , and to Lugur , the Voice , he cried menacingly . 
It is the truth , I interposed . 
We came down the pass age . 
At its end was a carved vine , a vine of five flowers the fire died from the red dwarf's eyes , and I could have sworn to a swift pallor . 
I rested a hand upon these flowers , and a door opened . 
But when we had gone through it and turned , behind us was nothing but unbroken cliff . 
I had taken my cue from Marakinoff . 
If he had eliminated the episode of car and Moon Pool , he had good reason , I had no doubt and I would be as cautious . 
Was it like this , say ? He thrust forward a long arm . 
Upon the thumb of the hand was an immense ring , set with a dull blue stone . 
Graven on the face of the jewel was the symbol of the rosy walls of the Moon Chamber that had opened to us their two portals . 
But cut over the vine were seven circles , one about each of the flowers and two larger ones covering , intersect ing them . 
This is the same , I said but these were not there I indicated the circles . 
The woman drew a deep breath and looked deep into Lugur's eyes . 
The sign of the Silent Ones ! he half whispered . 
It was the woman who first recovered herself . 
The strangers are weary , Lugur , she said . 
When they are rested they shall show where the rocks opened . 
I sensed a subtle change in their attitude toward us a new intentness a doubt plainly tinged with apprehension . 
He returned her scrutiny fearlessly , a touch of contempt in the clear eyes like a child watching a snake which he did not dread , but whose danger be well knew . 
Under that look Yolara stirred impatiently , sensing , I know , its meaning . 
Why do you look at me so ? she cried . 
An expression of bewilderment passed over Olaf's face . 
I do not understand , he said in English . 
I caught a quickly repressed gleam in O'Keefe's eyes . 
He knew , as I knew , that Olaf must have understood . 
But did Marakinoff ? Apparently he did not . 
But why was Olaf feigning igno rance ? This man is a sailor from what we call the North , thus Larry haltingly . 
He is crazed , I think . 
He tells a strange tale of a something of cold fire that took his wife and babe . 
We found him wandering where we were . 
And because he is strong we brought him with us . 
That is all , O lady , whose voice is sweeter than the honey of the wild bees ! A shape of cold fire ? she repeated . 
A shape of cold fire that whirled beneath the moon , with the sound of little bells , answered Larry , watching her in tently . 
She looked at Lugur and laughed . 
Then he , too , is fortunate , she said . 
For he has come to the place of his something of cold fire and tell him that he shall join his wife and child , in time that I promise him . 
What does she say ? he asked . 
Good ! He looked at Yolara with well assumed gratitude . 
Lugur , who had been scanning his bulk , drew close . 
He felt the giant muscles which Huldricksson accommodatingly flexed for him . 
But he shall meet Valdor and Tahola before he sees those kin of his , he laughed mockingly . 
And if he bests them for reward his wife and babe ! A shudder , quickly repressed , shook the seaman's frame . 
The woman bent her supremely beautiful head . 
These two , she said , pointing to the Russian and to me , seem to be men of learning . 
As for this man , she smiled at Larry I would have him explain to me some things . 
What 'hon ey of 'e wild bees s' is . 
Larry had spoken the words in English , and she was trying to repeat them . 
And now take them , Rador give them food and drink and let them rest till we shall call them again . 
She stretched out a hand toward O'Keefe . 
The Irishman bowed low over it , raised it softly to his lips . 
There was a vicious hiss from Lugur but Yolara regarded Larry with eyes now all tender blue . 
You please me , she whispered . 
And the face of Lugur grew darker . 
The rosy , azure shot globe at her side suddenly dulled . 
From it came a faint bell sound as of chimes far away . 
It vibrated , and then its surface ran with little waves of dull colour from it came a whisper ing so low that I could not distinguish the words if words they were . 
She spoke to the red dwarf . 
They have brought the three who blasphemed the Shin ing One , she said slowly . 
Now it is in my mind to show these strangers the justice of Lora . 
What say you , Lugur ? The red dwarf nodded , his eyes sparkling with a malicious anticipation . 
The woman spoke again to the globe . 
Bring them here ! And again it ran swiftly with its film of colours , darkened , and shone rosy once more . 
From without there came a rustle of many feet upon the rugs . 
Yolara pressed a slender hand upon the base of the pedestal of the globe beside her . 
Each , I now noted , had the same clustering black hair of Rador . 
The girl cast her self weeping at the feet of the priestess the youth regarded her curiously . 
You are Songar of the Lower Waters ? murmured Yolara almost caressingly . 
And this is your daughter and her lover ? The gnome nodded , the flame in his eyes leaping higher . 
It has come to me that you three have dared blaspheme the Shining One , its priestess , and its Voice , went on Yo lara smoothly . 
Also that you have called out to the three Silent Ones . 
Is it true ? Your spies have spoken and have you not already judged us ? The voice of the old dwarf was bitter . 
A flicker shot through the eyes of Yolara , again cold grey . 
The girl reached a trembling hand out to the hem of the priestess's veils . 
Tell us why you did these things , Songar , she said . 
Why you did them , knowing full well what your reward would be . 
The dwarf stiffened he raised his withered arms , and his eyes blazed . 
Because evil are your thoughts and evil are your deeds , he cried . 
Yours and your lover's , there he levelled a finger at Lugur . 
Because of the Shining One you have made evil , too , and the greater wickedness you contemplate you and he with the Shining One . 
But I tell you that your measure of iniquity is full the tale of your sin near ended ! Yea the Silent Ones have been patient , but soon they will speak . 
A sign are THEY a warning harlot ! He spat the word . 
In Yolara's eyes , grown black , the devils leaped unrestrained . 
Is it even so , Songar ? her voice caressed . 
Now ask the Silent Ones to help you ! They sit afar but surely they will hear you . 
The sweet voice was mocking . 
She levelled it , a covering clicked from its base , and out of it darted a slender ray of intense green light . 
It struck the old dwarf squarely over the heart , and spread swift as light itself , covering him with a gleaming , pale film . 
She clenched her hand upon the cone , and the ray disap peared . 
She thrust the cone back into her breast and leaned forward expectantly so Lugur and so the other dwarfs . 
From the girl came a low wail of anguish the boy dropped upon his knees , covering his face . 
For the moment the white beard stood rigid then the robe that had covered him seemed to melt away , revealing all the knotted , monstrous body . 
And in that body a vibra tion began , increasing to incredible rapidity . 
It wavered be fore us like a reflection in a still pond stirred by a sudden wind . 
It grew and grew to a rhythm whose rapidity was intolerable to watch and that still chained the eyes . 
The figure grew indistinct , misty . 
Tiny sparks in infinite numbers leaped from it like , I thought , the radiant shower of particles hurled out by radium when seen under the microscope . 
Where the gnomelike form had been but a few seconds before there was nothing ! O'Keefe drew a long breath , and I was sensible of a prick ling along my scalp . 
You have seen , she said . 
Her eyes lingered tigerishly upon Olaf's pallid face . 
She turned to the men in green , who were laughing softly among them selves . 
Take these two , and go ! she commanded . 
The justice of Lora , said the red dwarf . 
The justice of Lora and the Shining One under Thanaroa ! Upon the utterance of the last word I saw Marakinoff start violently . 
The hand at his side made a swift , surreptitious gesture , so fleeting that I hardly caught it . 
The red dwarf stared at the Russian , and there was amazement upon his face . 
Swiftly as Marakinoff , he returned it . 
Yolara , the red dwarf spoke , it would please me to take this man of wisdom to my own place for a time . 
The giant I would have , too . 
The woman awoke from her brooding nodded . 
As you will , Lugur , she said . 
A smaller pavilion arose before us , single storied , front wide open . 
Upon its threshold Rador paused , bowed deeply , and mo tioned us within . 
The chamber we entered was large , closed on two sides by screens of grey at the back gay , concealing curtains . 
The low table of blue stone , dressed with fine white cloths , stretched at one side flanked by the cushioned divans . 
Rador pressed upon its base , and two other screens slid into place across the entrance , shutting in the room . 
He clapped his hands the curtains parted , and two girls came through them . 
Each was clad in an extremely scanty bodice of silken blue , girdled above a kirtle that came barely to their very pretty knees . 
Food and drink , ordered Rador . 
They dropped back through the curtains . 
Do you like them ? he asked us . 
Some chickens ! said Larry . 
They delight the heart , he translated for Rador . 
The green dwarf's next remark made me gasp . 
They are yours , he said . 
I became acutely sensible that it had been hours since I had either eaten or drunk . 
The yellow flagons were set before Larry and me , the purple at Rador's hand . 
The girls , at his signal , again withdrew . 
I raised my glass to my lips and took a deep draft . 
The taste was unfamiliar but delightful . 
Almost at once my fatigue disappeared . 
I realized a clarity of mind , an interesting exhilaration and sense of irresponsi bility , of freedom from care , that were oddly enjoyable . 
Larry became immediately his old gay self . 
The green dwarf regarded us whimsically , sipping from his great flagon of rock crystal . 
Much do I desire to know of that world you came from , he said at last through the rocks , he added , slyly . 
And much do we desire to know of this world of yours , O Rador , I answered . 
Should I ask him of the Dweller seek from him a clue to Throckmartin ? Again , clearly as a spoken command , came the warning to forbear , to wait . 
And once more I obeyed . 
Let us learn , then , from each other . 
And they are all like us varyingly . 
He considered skeptically , I could see , my remark upon our numbers . 
In Muria , he said at last , the men are like me or like Lugur . 
Our women are as you see them like Yolara or those two who served you . 
And there is a third but only one . 
Brown haired with glints of ruddy bronze , golden eyed , and lovely as a dream , with long , slender , beautiful hands ? he cried . 
Where saw you HER ? interrupted the dwarf , starting to his feet . 
Saw her ? Larry recovered himself . 
Nay , Rador , per haps , I only dreamed that there was such a woman . 
See to it , then , that you tell not your dream to Yolara , said the dwarf grimly . 
Does she dwell here ? Larry's face was alight . 
The dwarf hesitated , glanced about him anxiously . 
Nay , he answered , ask me no more of her . 
He was silent for a space . 
And what do you who are as leaves or drops of water do in that world of yours ? he said , plainly bent on turning the subject . 
Keep off the golden eyed girl , Larry , I interjected . 
Wait till we find out why she's tabu . 
Love and battle , strive and accomplish and die or fail and die , answered Larry to Rador giving me a quick nod of acquiescence to my warning in English . 
In that at least your world and mine differ little , said the dwarf . 
How great is this world of yours , Rador ? I spoke . 
How great indeed I do not know , he said frankly at last . 
The land where we dwell with the Shining One stretches along the white waters for He used a phrase of which I could make nothing . 
Beyond this city of the Shining One and on the hither shores of the white waters dwell the mayia ladala the common ones . 
He took a deep draft from his flagon . 
There are , first , the fair haired ones , the children of the ancient rulers , he continued . 
Who rules ? I asked . 
And those three who were judged ? this from Larry . 
They were of the mayia ladala , he replied , like those two I gave you . 
They do not like to dance with the Shining One the blasphemers ! He raised his voice in a sudden great shout of mocking laughter . 
And is that all ? asked Larry . 
There is the Sea of Crimson where Without warning the globe beside us sent out a vicious note , Rador turned toward it , his face paling . 
Its surface crawled with whisperings angry , peremptory ! I hear ! he croaked , gripping the table . 
I obey ! He turned to us a face devoid for once of its malice . 
Ask me no more questions , strangers , he said . 
And now , if you are done , I will show you where you may sleep and bathe . 
We followed him through the hang ings , passed through a corridor and into another smaller chamber , roofless , the sides walled with screens of dark grey . 
Two cushioned couches were there and a curtained door leading into an open , outer enclosure in which a fountain played within a wide pool . 
Your bath , said Rador . 
He dropped the curtain and came back into the room . 
He touched a carved flower at one side . 
The room filled with a cool twilight , refreshing , sleep inducing . 
The green dwarf pointed to the couches . 
My men are on guard outside . 
He came closer to us , the old mocking gaiety sparkling in his eyes . 
But I spoke too quickly , he whispered . 
Whether it is because the Afyo Maie fears their tongues or he laughed at Larry . 
Back in the great old days of Ireland , thus Larry break ing into my thoughts raptly , the brogue thick , there was Cairill mac Cairill Cairill Swiftspear . 
An' Cairill wronged Keevan of Emhain Abhlach , of the blood of Angus of the great people when he was sleeping in the likeness of a pale reed . 
In that year Cairill met Emar of the Birds that are one white , one red , and one black and they loved , and from that love sprang Ailill their son . 
Like the old gnome , he whispered , that they called Songar of the Lower Waters ! He shook his head as though he cast a dream from him . 
Then , all alert But that was in Iceland ages agone . 
And there's nothing like that here , Doc ! He laughed . 
It doesn't scare me one little bit , old boy . 
The pretty devil lady's got the wrong slant . 
In one drawer of his mind was packed all his superstition , his mysticism , and what of weakness it might carry . 
Some stuff ! Deepest admiration was in his voice . 
It's easy enough to explain , Larry , I said . 
The effect , that is for what the green ray is made of I don't know , of course . 
Shake themselves to pieces is right , then ! he exclaimed . 
Absolutely right , I nodded . 
Everything in Nature vi brates . 
If a magnifying glass of sufficient size and strength could be placed over us we could see ourselves as sieves our space lattice , as it is called . 
The green ray of Yolara is such an agent . 
It looked like all the other seventy fives but there was something about its sound that did it . 
They had to recast it . 
It's practically the same thing , I replied . 
By some freak its vibratory qualities had that effect . 
In each case they stimulated the atomic vibration of the particular building I paused , aware all at once of an intense drowsiness . 
O'Keefe , yawning , reached down to unfasten his puttees . 
Lord , I'm sleepy ! he exclaimed . 
Can't understand it what you say most interesting Lord ! he yawned again straightened . 
What made Reddy take such a shine to the Russian ? he asked . 
Thanaroa , I answered , fighting to keep my eyes open . 
What ? When Lugur spoke that name I saw Marakinoff signal him . 
Thanaroa is , I suspect , the original form of the name of Tangaroa , the greatest god of the Polynesians . 
There's a secret cult to him in the islands . 
Marakinoff may belong to it he knows it anyway . 
Lugur recognized the signal and despite his surprise answered it . 
So he gave him the high sign , eh ? mused Larry . 
How could they both know it ? The cult is a very ancient one . 
Undoubtedly it had its origin in the dim beginnings before these people migrated here , I replied . 
It's a link one of the few links between up there and the lost past Trouble then , mumbled Larry . 
Hell brewing ! I smell it Say , Doc , is this sleepiness natural ? Wonder where my gas mask is he added , half incoherently . 
But I myself was struggling desperately against the drugged slumber pressing down upon me . 
Lakla ! I heard O'Keefe murmur . 
Lakla of the golden eyes no Eilidh the Fair ! He made an immense effort , half raised himself , grinned faintly . 
Thought this was paradise when I first saw it , Doc , he sighed . 
But I know now , if it is , No Man's Land was the greatest place on earth for a honeymoon . 
They they've got us , Doc He sank back . 
Good luck , old boy , wherever you're going . 
Hope see you 'gain His voice trailed into silence . 
Fighting , fighting with every fibre of brain and nerve against the sleep , I felt myself being steadily overcome . 
Then oblivion indeed ! CHAPTER XVI Yolara of Muria vs . 
the O'Keefe I AWAKENED with all the familiar , homely sensation of a shade having been pulled up in a darkened room . 
I thrilled with a wonderful sense of deep rest and restored resiliency . 
The ebon shadow had vanished from above and down into the room was pouring the silvery light . 
From the fountain pool came a mighty splashing and shouts of laughter . 
I jumped and drew the curtain . 
O'Keefe and Rador were swim ming a wild race the dwarf like an otter , out distancing and playing around the Irishman at will . 
Tiring at last , we swam to the edge and drew ourselves out . 
The green dwarf quickly clothed himself and Larry rather carefully donned his uni form . 
The Afyo Maie has summoned us , Doc , he said . 
We're to well I suppose you'd call it breakfast with her . 
After that , Rador tells me , we're to have a session with the Council of Nine . 
I suppose Yolara is as curious as any lady of the upper world , as you might put it and just naturally can't wait , he added . 
The dwarf laughed , bent in an absurd imitation of Larry's mocking courtesy and started ahead of us to the house of the priestess . 
Doc , sleep hit me like a Hun shell . 
I thought they were pulling the gas on us . 
I I had some intention of bidding you tender farewells , he con tinued , half sheepishly . 
I think I did start 'em , didn't I ? I nodded . 
But wait a minute he hesitated . 
I had a queer sort of dream 'What was it ? I asked eagerly , Well , he answered slowly , I suppose it was because I'd been thinking of Golden Eyes . 
Then it got real dreamish . 
Why do you ask ? Rador turned back toward us , Later , I answered , Not now . 
But through me went a little glow of reassurance . 
What ever the maze through which we were moving whatever of menacing evil lurking there the Golden Girl was clearly watching over us watching with whatever unknown powers she could muster . 
Facing it was a small table of reddish wood and from the omnipresent cushions heaped around it arose to greet us Yolara . 
Larry drew in his breath with an involuntary gasp of admiration and bowed low . 
My own admiration was as frank and the priestess was well pleased with our homage . 
She was swathed in the filmy , half revelant webs , now of palest blue . 
The corn silk hair was caught within a wide meshed golden net in which sparkled tiny brilliants , like blended sapphires and diamonds . 
The high arched , slender feet rested upon soft sandals whose gauzy withes laced the exquisitely formed leg to just below the dimpled knee . 
Some giddy wonder ! exclaimed Larry , looking at me and placing a hand over his heart . 
Put her on a New York roof and she'd empty Broadway . 
Take the cue from me , Doc . 
He turned to Yolara , whose face was somewhat puzzled . 
A flush stole up through the translucent skin . 
The blue eyes softened and she waved us toward the cushions . 
Black haired maids stole in , placing before us the fruits , the little loaves and a steaming drink somewhat the colour and odor of chocolate . 
I was conscious of outrageous hunger . 
What are you named , strangers ? she asked . 
This man is named Goodwin , said O'Keefe . 
As for me , call me Larry . 
Nothing like getting acquainted quick , he said to me but kept his eyes upon Yolara as though he were voicing another honeyed phrase . 
And so she took it , for You must teach me your tongue , she murmured . 
Then shall I have two words where now I have one to tell you of your loveliness , he answered . 
And also that'll take time , he spoke to me . 
Essential occupation out of which we can't be drafted to make these fun loving folk any Roman holiday . 
Get me ! Larree , mused Yolara . 
It is sweet and indeed it was as she spoke it . 
And what is your land named , Larree ? she continued . 
And Goodwin's ? She caught the sound perfectly . 
My land , O lady of loveliness , is two Ireland and America his but one America . 
She repeated the two names slowly , over and over . 
We seized the opportunity to attack the food halting half guilt ily as she spoke again . 
Oh , but you are hungry ! she cried . 
She leaned her chin upon her hands and regarded us , whole fountains of questions brimming up in her eyes . 
How is it , Larree , that you have two countries and Good win but one ? she asked , at last unable to keep silent longer . 
I was born in Ireland he in America . 
But I have dwelt long in his land and my heart loves each , he said . 
I am tired of men like Lugur and Rador . 
But they are strong , she added , swiftly . 
Lugur can hold up ten in his two arms and raise six with but one hand . 
We could not understand her numerals and she raised white fingers to illustrate . 
That is little , O lady , to the men of Ireland , replied O'Keefe . 
Lo , I have seen one of my race hold up ten times ten of our what call you that swift thing in which Rador brought us here ? Corial , said she . 
Hold up ten times twenty of our corials with but two fingers and these corials of ours Coria , said she . 
And these coria of ours are each greater in weight than ten of yours . 
Yes , and I have seen another with but one blow of his hand raise hell ! And so I have , he murmured to me . 
And both at Forty second and Fifth Avenue , N. Y. U. S. A. Yolara considered all this with manifest doubt . 
Hell ? she inquired at last . 
I know not the word . 
In many ways they are , I gather , O heart's delight , one and the same . 
Now the doubt in the blue eyes was strong indeed . 
None of our men can do THAT ! she answered , at length . 
Nor do I think you could , Larree . 
Oh , no , said Larry easily . 
I never tried to be that strong . 
I fly , he added , casually . 
The priestess rose to her feet , gazing at him with startled eyes . 
Fly ! she repeated incredulously . 
Like a Zitia ? A bird ? Larry nodded and then seeing the dawning command in her eyes , went on hastily . 
Not with my own wings , Yolara . 
In a a corial that moves through what's the word for air , Doc well , through this He made a wide gesture up toward the nebulous haze above us . 
He took a pencil and on a white cloth made a hasty sketch of an airplane . 
That I can understand , she said . 
Remarkably intelligent young woman , muttered O'Keefe . 
Hope I'm not giving anything away but she had me . 
But what are your women like , Larree ? Are they like me ? And how many have loved you ? she whispered . 
In all Ireland and America there is none like you , Yo lara , he answered . 
And take that any way you please , he muttered in English . 
She took it , it was evident , as it most pleased her . 
Do you have goddesses ? she asked . 
Every woman in Ireland and America , is a goddess thus Larry . 
Now that I do not believe . 
There was both anger and mockery in her eyes . 
I know women , Larree and if that were so there would be no peace for men . 
There isn't ! replied he . 
The anger died out and she laughed , sweetly , understandingly . 
And which goddess do you worship , Larree ? You ! said Larry O'Keefe boldly . 
Larry ! Larry ! I whispered . 
But the priestess was laughing little trills of sweet bell notes and pleasure was in each note . 
You are indeed bold , Larree , she said , to offer me your worship . 
Yet am I pleased by your boldness . 
Still Lugur is strong and you are not of those who what did you say have tried . 
And your wings are not here Larree ! Again her laughter rang out . 
The Irishman flushed it was touche for Yolara ! Fear not for me with Lugur , he said , grimly . 
Rather fear for him ! The laughter died she looked at him searchingly a little enigmatic smile about her mouth so sweet and so cruel . 
Well we shall see , she murmured . 
You say you battle in your world . 
With what ? Oh , with this and with that , answered Larry , airily . 
We manage Have you the Keth I mean that with which I sent Songar into the nothingness ? she asked swiftly . 
See what she's driving at ? O'Keefe spoke to me , swiftly . 
Well I do ! But here's where the O'Keefe lands . 
And this they did by their harpings , and by words spoken words of power , O Yolara , that have their power still and by pipings and by slaying sounds . 
There was Cravetheen who played swift flames from his harp , flying flames that ate those they were sent against . 
I say to you , Yolara , that these things were and are in Ireland . 
Yea and rocks as mighty as those through which we came lifted up and shattered before the lids could fall over your blue eyes . 
He took a vase of crystal from the table , placed it on the threshold that led into the garden . 
Use it on this and I will show you . 
I will use it upon one of the ladala she began eagerly . 
The exaltation dropped from him there was a touch of horror in the eyes he turned to her her own dropped be fore it . 
It shall be as you say , she said hurriedly . 
She drew the shining cone from her breast levelled it at the vase . 
As quickly as he had drawn it , he thrust the pistol back into place and stood there empty handed , looking at her sternly . 
From the anteroom came shouting , a rush of feet . 
It is true ! she cried , but see , the Keth is alive ! I followed her pointing finger . 
Each broken bit of the crystal was vibrating , shaking its particles out into space . 
Broken it the bullet of Larry's had but not released it from the grip of the disintegrating force . 
The priestess's face was triumphant . 
But what matters it , O shining urn of beauty what mat ters it to the vase that is broken what happens to its frag ments ? asked Larry , gravely and pointedly . 
The triumph died from her face and for a space she was silent brooding . 
Next , whispered O'Keefe to me . 
Lots of surprises in the little box keep your eye on the opening and see what comes out . 
We had not long to wait . 
There was a sparkle of anger about Yolara , something too of injured pride . 
She clapped her hands whispered to the maid who answered her sum mons , and then sat back regarding us , maliciously . 
You have answered me as to your strength but you have not proved it but the Keth you have answered . 
Now answer this ! she said . 
She pointed out into the garden . 
Cushions close to us swirled about as though in the vortex of a whirlwind . 
I twisted my head saw that he too was caught in this grip of the invisible . 
But his face was calm , even amused . 
Keep cool , Doc ! he said . 
Remember she wants to learn the language ! Now from Yolara burst chime upon chime of mocking laughter . 
She gave a command the hands loosened , the poniard withdrew from my heart suddenly as I had been caught I was free and unpleasantly weak and shaky . 
Have you THAT in Ireland , Larree ! cried the priestess and once more trembled with laughter . 
A good play , Yolara . 
His voice was as calm as his face . 
But they did that in Ireland even before Dalua piped away his first man's shadow . 
But the priestess laughed on . 
It did get me a little , whispered Larry . 
That wasn't quite up to my mark . 
But God ! If we could find that trick out and take it back with us ! Not so , Larree ! Yolara gasped , through her laughter . 
Out of it she drew three flat , oval crystals , faint rose in hue . 
She handed one to O'Keefe and one to me . 
Look ! she commanded , placing the third before her own eyes . 
The gauzy stuff seemed to vibrate its strands to run together like quick silver . 
It is what they wear , Larree , explained Yolara , gra ciously . 
It is something that came to us from the Ancient Ones . 
But we have so few she sighed . 
Such treasures must be two edged swords , Yolara , commented O'Keefe . 
For how know you that one within them creeps not to you with hand eager to strike ? There is no danger , she said indifferently . 
I am the keeper of them . 
She mused for a space , then abruptly And now no more . 
You two are to appear before the Council at a certain time but fear nothing . 
You , Goodwin , go with Rador about our city and increase your wisdom . 
But you , Larree , await me here in my garden she smiled at him , provocatively maliciously , too . 
For shall not one who has resisted a world of goddesses be given all chance to worship when at last he finds his own ? She laughed whole heartedly and was gone . 
And at that moment I liked Yolara better than ever I had before and alas better than ever I was to in the future . 
I noted Rador standing outside the open jade door and started to go , but O'Keefe caught me by the arm . 
Wait a minute , he urged . 
About Golden Eyes you were going to tell me something it's been on my mind all through that little sparring match . 
I told him of the vision that had passed through my closing lids . 
He listened gravely and then laughed . 
Hell of a lot of privacy in this place ! he grinned . 
Ladies who can walk through walls and others with regular invisi ble cloaks to let 'em flit wherever they please . 
Oh , well , don't let it get on your nerves , Doc . 
Remember every thing's natural ! That robe stuff is just camouflage of course . 
A man under the X ray is partly invisible this makes him wholly so . 
He doesn't register , as the people of the motion picture profession say . 
And as for the Shining One Say ! he snorted . 
I'd like to set the O'Keefe banshee up against it . 
I'll bet that old resourceful Irish body would give it the first three bites and a strangle hold and wallop it before it knew it had 'em . 
Oh ! Wow ! Boy Howdy ! I heard him still chuckling gleefully over this vision as I passed along the opal wall with the green dwarf . 
A shell was awaiting us . 
I paused before entering it to examine the polished surface of runway and great road . 
It was obsidian volcanic glass of pale emerald , unflawed , translucent , with no sign of block or juncture . 
What makes it go ? I asked Rador . 
At a word from him the driver touched a concealed spring and an aperture ap peared beneath the control lever , of which I have spoken in a preceding chapter . 
Within was a small cube of black crystal , through whose sides I saw , dimly , a rapidly revolv ing , glowing ball , not more than two inches in diameter . 
Beneath the cube was a curiously shaped , slender cylinder winding down into the lower body of the Nautilus whorl . 
He motioned me into the vehicle and took a place beside me . 
The driver touched the lever a stream of coruscations flew from the ball down into the cylinder . 
The shell started smoothly , and as the tiny torrent of shining particles increased it gathered speed . 
The corial does not touch the road , explained Rador . 
It is lifted so far he held his forefinger and thumb less than a sixteenth of an inch apart above it . 
And perhaps here is the best place to explain the activa tion of the shells or coria . 
The force utilized was atomic energy . 
Passing from the whirling ball the ions darted through the cylinder to two bands of a peculiar metal affixed to the base of the vehicles somewhat like skids of a sled . 
The creation of this energy and the mechanism of its utilization were , briefly , as follows Dr . 
Nevertheless , as the principle is so clear , it is believed that these difficulties will ultimately be over come . 
J. B. K. , President , I. A. of S. The wide , glistening road was gay with the coria . 
They formed a gigantic abutment , a titanic salient . 
The slender , graceful bridges under which we skimmed ended at openings in the upflung , far walls of verdure . 
Each had its little garrison of soldiers . 
Through some of the open ings a rivulet of the green obsidian river passed . 
We turned the bend of the road and flew down that farther emerald ribbon we had seen from the great oval . 
Before us rose the shining cliffs and the lake . 
A half mile , perhaps , from these the last of the bridges flung itself . 
Something about it aroused in me an intense curiosity . 
Where does that road lead , Rador ? I asked . 
To the one place above all of which I may not tell you , Goodwin , he answered . 
We skimmed slowly out upon the great pier . 
Far to the left was the prismatic , rainbow curtain between the Cyclo pean pillars . 
On the white waters graceful shells lacustrian replicas of the Elf chariots swam , but none was near that distant web of wonder . 
Rador what is that ? I asked . 
It is the Veil of the Shining One ! he answered slowly . 
Was the Shining One that which we named the Dweller ? What is the Shining One ? I cried , eagerly . 
Nor did he speak until we had turned on our home ward way . 
And lively as my interest , my scientific curiosity , were I was conscious suddenly of acute depression . 
CHAPTER XVII The Leprechaun THE SHELL carried us straight back to the house of Yolara . 
We stood again before the tenebrous wall where first we had faced the priestess and the Voice . 
And as we stood , again the portal appeared with all its dis concerting , magical abruptness . 
But now the scene was changed . 
And as it progressed I was more and more struck by the change in the O'Keefe . 
All flippancy was gone , rarely did his sense of humour reveal itself in any of his answers . 
Always he stressed the power of our surface races , their multitudes , their solidarity . 
In our weapons their interest was avid . 
He did not seem unduly interested . 
I wondered if the Russian had told him as yet of the girl of the rosy wall of the Moon Pool Chamber and the real reasons for our search . 
Then I answered as briefly as possible omitting all reference to these things . 
The red dwarf watched me with unmistakable amusement and I knew Marakinoff had told him . 
But clearly Lugur had kept his information even from Yolara and as clearly she had spoken to none of that episode when O'Keefe's automatic had shattered the Keth smitten vase . 
Again I felt that sense of deep bewilderment of helpless search for clue to all the tangle . 
For two hours we were questioned and then the priestess called Rador and let us go . 
Larry was sombre as we returned . 
He walked about the room uneasily . 
Hell's brewing here all right , he said at last , stopping before me . 
I can't make out just the particular brand that's all that bothers me . 
We're going to have a stiff fight , that's sure . 
What I want to do quick is to find the Golden Girl , Doc . 
Haven't seen her on the wall lately , have you ? he queried , hopefully fantastic . 
Laugh if you want to , he went on . 
But she's our best bet . 
It's going to be a race between her and the O'Keefe banshee but I put my money on her . 
I had a queer experi ence while I was in that garden , after you'd left . 
Did you ever see a leprechaun , Doc ? I shook my head again , as solemnly . 
He's a little man in green , said Larry . 
Oh , about as high as your knee . 
I saw one once in Carntogher Woods . 
And as I sat there , half asleep , in Yolara's garden , the living spit of him stepped out from one of those bushes , twirling a little shillalah . 
'It's a tight box ye're gettin' in , Larry avick , said he , 'but don't ye be downhearted , lad . 
'I'm carrying on , said I , 'but you're a long way from Ireland , I said , or thought I did . 
'Ye've a lot o' friends there , he answered . 
'An' where the heart rests the feet are swift to follow . 
Not that I'm sayin' I'd like to live here , Larry , said he . 
'I know where my heart is now , I told him . 
'It rests on a girl with golden eyes and the hair and swan white breast of Eilidh the Fair but me feet don't seem to get me to her , I said . 
An' the little man in green nodded his head an' whirled his shillalah . 
'It's what I came to tell ye , says he . 
Not that I think the blue eyed wan is keen for mendin' an' cookin' ! says he . 
'You don't have to be comin' all this way to tell me that , I answer . 
'Well , I'm just a tellin' you , he says . 
'Ye've got some rough knocks comin' , Larry . 
In fact , ye're in for a devil of a time . 
But , remember that ye're the O'Keefe , says he . 
'An' while the bhoys are all wid ye , avick , ye've got to be on the job yourself . 
'I hope , I tell him , 'that the O'Keefe banshee can find her way here in time that is , if it's necessary , which I hope it won't be . 
'Don't ye worry about that , says he . 
'Not that she's keen on leavin' the ould sod , Larry . 
The good ould soul's in quite a state o' mind about ye , aroon . 
What they'll do to it'll make the Big Wind look like a summer breeze on Lough Lene ! An' that's about all , Larry . 
We thought a voice from the Green Isle would cheer ye . 
Don't fergit that ye're the O'Keefe an' I say it again all the bhoys are wid ye . 
But we want t' kape bein' proud o' ye , lad ! An' I looked again and there was only a bush waving . 
There wasn't a smile in my heart or if there was it was a very tender one . 
I'm going to bed , he said abruptly . 
Keep an eye on the wall , Doc ! Between the seven sleeps that followed , Larry and I saw but little of each other . 
Yolara sought him more and more . 
Thrice we were called before the Council once we were at a great feast , whose splendours and surprises I can never for get . 
Largely I was in the company of Rador . 
Together we two passed the green barriers into the dwelling place of the ladala . 
They seemed provided with everything needful for life . 
Once I had concrete evidence of the mood . 
Glancing be hind me , I saw a white , vengeful face peer from behind a tree trunk , a hand lift , a shining dart speed from it straight toward Rador's back . 
Instinctively I thrust him aside . 
He turned upon me angrily . 
I pointed to where the little missile lay , still quivering , on the ground . 
That , some day I will repay ! he said . 
I looked again at the thing . 
At its end was a tiny cone covered with a glisten ing , gelatinous substance . 
Rador pulled from a tree beside us a fruit somewhat like an apple . 
Come now between this and the prelude to the latter half of the drama whose history this narrative is only scattering and necessarily fragmentary observations . 
They instantaneously made night appear in a place where no night was . 
But they interposed no obstacle to air or to sound . 
Briefly their mechanism was this For the same reason that Dr . 
Goodwin's exposition of the mechanism of the atomic engines was deleted , his description of the light destroying screens has been deleted by the Executive Council . 
J. B. F. , President , I. A. of S. There were two favoured classes of the ladala the soldiers and the dream makers . 
The dream makers were the most astonishing social phenomena , I think , of all . 
Denied by their circumscribed environment the wider experiences of us of the outer world , the Murians had perfected an amaz ing system of escape through the imagination . 
They were , too , intensely musical . 
Their favourite instru ments were double flutes immensely complex pipe organs harps , great and small . 
They had another remarkable in strument made up of a double octave of small drums which gave forth percussions remarkably disturbing to the emo tional centres . 
It was this love of music that gave rise to one of the few truly humorous incidents of our caverned life . 
Larry came to me it was just after our fourth sleep , I remember . 
Come on to a concert , he said . 
We skimmed off to one of the bridge garrisons . 
Rador called the two score guards to attention and then , to my utter stupefaction , the whole company , O'Keefe leading them , roared out the anthem , God Save the King . 
They sang in a closer approach to the English than might have been expected scores of miles below England's level . 
Send him victorious ! Happy and glorious ! they bellowed . 
He quivered with suppressed mirth at my paralysis of surprise . 
Taught 'em that for Marakinoff's benefit ! he gasped . 
Wait till that Red hears it . 
Just wait until you hear Yolara lisp a pretty little thing I taught her , said Larry as we set back for what we now called home . 
There was an impish twinkle in his eyes . 
For it was not many minutes later that the priestess condescended to command me to come to her with O'Keefe . 
Show Goodwin how much you have learned of our speech , O lady of the lips of honeyed flame ! murmured Larry . 
She thinks it's a love song , said Larry when we had left . 
It's only part of a repertoire I'm teaching her . 
Honestly , Doc , it's the only way I can keep my mind clear when I'm with her , he went on earnestly . 
She's a devil ess from hell but a wonder . 
I wondered what was bringing the ladala into Lora , and where they were vanishing . 
There were many of the green clad soldiers along the way , and the garrison of the only bridge span I could see had cer tainly been doubled . 
Hardly had I reached it before Rador came hurrying up , in his manner a curious exultance mingled with what in anyone else I would have called a decided nervousness . 
Come ! he commanded before I could speak . 
The Coun cil has made decision and Larree is awaiting you . 
What has been decided ? I panted as we sped along the mosaic path that led to the house of Yolara . 
And why is Larry awaiting me ? And at his answer I felt my heart pause in its beat and through me race a wave of mingled panic and eagerness . 
The Shining One dances ! had answered the green dwarf . 
And you are to worship ! What was this dancing of the Shining One , of which so often he had spoken ? Whatever my forebodings , Larry evidently had none . 
Great stuff ! he cried , when we had met in the great ante chamber now empty of the dwarfs . 
Hope it will be worth seeing have to be something damned good , though , to catch me , after what I've seen of shows at the front , he added . 
Bathe ! he commanded and set the example by strip ping himself and plunging within . 
Only a minute or two did the green dwarf allow us , and he checked us as we were about to don our clothing . 
Then , to my intense embarrassment , without warning , two of the black haired girls entered , bearing robes of a peculiar dull blue hue . 
At our manifest discomfort Rador's laughter roared out . 
He took the garments from the pair , motioned them to leave us , and , still laughing , threw one around me . 
Its texture was soft , but decidedly metallic like some blue metal spun to the fineness of a spider's thread . 
Rador cast this over my head it completely covered my face , but was of so transparent a texture that I could see , though somewhat mistily , through it . 
Finally he handed us both a pair of long gloves of the same material and high stockings , the feet of which were gloved five toed . 
And again his laughter rang out at our manifest surprise . 
The priestess of the Shining One does not altogether trust the Shining One's Voice , he said at last . 
And these are to guard against any sudden errors . 
And fear not , Goodwin , he went on kindly . 
Not for the Shining One itself would Yolara see harm come to Larree here nor , because of him , to you . 
But I would not stake much on the great white one . 
And for him I am sorry , for him I do like well . 
Is he to be with us ? asked Larry eagerly . 
He is to be where we go , replied the dwarf soberly . 
Grimly Larry reached down and drew from his uniform his automatic . 
He popped a fresh clip into the pocket fold of his girdle . 
The pistol he slung high up beneath his arm pit . 
The green dwarf looked at the weapon curiously . 
This , said Larry , slays quicker than the Keth I take it so no harm shall come to the blue eyed one whose name is Olaf . 
If I should raise it be you not in its way , Rador ! he added significantly . 
The dwarf nodded again , his eyes sparkling . 
He thrust a hand out to both of us . 
A change comes , he said . 
What it is I know not , nor how it will fall . 
But this remember Rador is more friend to you than you yet can know . 
And now let us go ! he ended abruptly . 
Rador leaned over the wall . 
The mechanism clicked and started the door swung shut the sides of the car slipped into place , and we swept swiftly down the passage over head the wind whistled . 
In a few moments the moving plat form began to slow down . 
It stopped in a closed chamber no larger than itself . 
Rador drew his poniard and struck twice upon the wall with its hilt . 
Immediately a panel moved away , revealing a space filled with faint , misty blue radiance . 
Rador drew from his girdle a ring and held it out to the first dwarf . 
We stepped out the doors closed behind us . 
The place was weird enough . 
Its pave was a greenish blue stone re sembling lapis lazuli . 
On each side were high pedestals hold ing carved figures of the same material . 
There were perhaps a score of these , but in the mistiness I could not make out their outlines . 
A droning , rushing roar beat upon our ears filled the whole cavern . 
I smell the sea , said Larry suddenly . 
The roaring became deep toned , clamorous , and close in front of us a rift opened . 
Twenty feet in width , it cut the cavern floor and vanished into the blue mist on each side . 
The cleft was spanned by one solid slab of rock not more than two yards wide . 
It had neither railing nor other protec tion . 
The four leading priests marched out upon it one by one , and we followed . 
In the middle of the span they knelt . 
Ten feet beneath us was a torrent of blue sea water racing with prodigious speed between polished walls . 
It gave the impres sion of vast depth . 
It roared as it sped by , and far to the right was a low arch through which it disappeared . 
Whence came the stream , I marvelled , forgetting for the moment , as we passed on again , all else . 
In front of us stretched a wide flight of steps , huge as those which had led us into the courtyard of Nan Tauach through the ruined sea gate . 
We scaled it it narrowed from above light poured through a still narrower opening . 
Side by side Larry and I passed out of it . 
We had emerged upon an enormous platform of what seemed to be glistening ivory . 
It stretched before us for a hundred yards or more and then shelved gently into the white waters . 
Opposite not a mile away was that prodi gious web of woven rainbows Rador had called the Veil of the Shining One . 
Beneath it was the curved , scimitar sweep of the pier with its clustered , gleaming temples . 
Steady ! Steady , old man ! he whispered . 
Huge , incredibly huge , a colossal amphitheatre of jet , a stupendous semi circle , held within its mighty arc the ivory platform on which I stood . 
It reared itself almost perpendicularly hundreds of feet up into the sparkling heavens , and thrust down on each side its ebon bulwarks like monstrous paws . 
And within these alcoves were gathered , score upon score , the elfin beauties , the dwarfish men of the fair haired folk . 
At my right , a few feet from the opening through which we had come , a passageway led back between the fretted stalls . 
Half way between us and the massive base of the amphitheatre a dais rose . 
At the back of one of these the green dwarf paused , opened a door , and motioned us within . 
Entering , I found that we were exactly opposite where the ramp ran up to the dais and that Yolara was not more than fifty feet away . 
She glanced at O'Keefe and smiled . 
There's Marakinoff ! he said . 
I looked where he pointed . 
Opposite us sat the Russian , clothed as we were , leaning forward , his eyes eager behind his glasses but if he saw us he gave no sign . 
And there's Olaf ! said O'Keefe . 
Beneath the carved stall in which sat the Russian was an aperture and within it was Huldricksson . 
Unprotected by pillars or by grills , opening clear upon the platform , near him stretched the trail of flowers up to the great dais which Lugur and Yolara the priestess guarded . 
He sat alone , and my heart went out to him . 
Bring him here , he said to Rador . 
The green dwarf was looking at the Norseman , too , a shade of pity upon his mocking face . 
You can do nothing now and it may be there will be no need to do anything , he added but I could feel that there was little of conviction in his words . 
CHAPTER XIX The Madness of Olaf YOLARA threw her white arms high . 
From the mountainous tiers came a mighty sigh a rippling ran through them . 
And after them a silence in which the memory of the music seemed to beat , to beat ever more faintly , through every quivering nerve . 
From me all fear , all apprehension , had fled . 
Once more the first great note pealed out ! Once more it died and from the clustered spheres a kaleidoscopic blaze shot as though drawn from the majestic sound itself . 
The many coloured rays darted across the white waters and sought the face of the irised Veil . 
As they touched , it spar kled , flamed , wavered , and shook with fountains of prismatic colour . 
The light increased and in its intensity the silver air darkened . 
Faded into shadow that white mosaic of flower crowned faces set in the amphitheatre of jet , and vast shad ows dropped upon the high flung tiers and shrouded them . 
But on the skirts of the rays the fretted stalls in which we sat with the fair haired ones blazed out , iridescent , like jewels . 
I was sensible of an acceleration of every pulse a wild stimulation of every nerve . 
I felt myself being lifted above the world close to the threshold of the high gods soon their essence and their power would stream out into me ! I glanced at Larry . 
His eyes were wild with life ! I looked at Olaf and in his face was none of this only hate , and hate , and hate . 
The peacock waves streamed out over the waters , cleaving the seeming darkness , a rainbow path of glory . 
And the Veil flashed as though all the rainbows that had ever shone were burning within it . 
Again the mighty sound pealed . 
The hurricane of bells of diamond glass were jubilant , joyous . 
Through its crystal pizzicati drifted inarticulate murmurings deadly sweet , stilling the heart and setting it leaping madly . 
For a moment it paused , poised itself , and then came whirling down the flower path to its priestess , slowly , ever more slowly . 
It hovered for a moment between the woman and the dwarf , as though contemplating them turned to her with its storm of tinklings softened , its murmurings infinitely caressing . 
It swept up the ramp to the dais , rested there , slowly turning , plumes and spirals lacing and unlacing , throbbing , pulsing . 
Now its nucleus grew plainer , stronger human in a fashion , and all inhuman neither man nor woman neither god nor devil subtly partaking of all . 
There were half a score of them girls and youths , women and men . 
The Shining One poised itself , regarded them . 
Now the first of the figures rushed upon the dais and paused . 
At its touch there was an infinitely dreadful shrinking and , it seemed , a simultaneous hurling of herself into its radiance . 
As it wrapped its swirls around her , permeated her the crystal chorus burst forth tumultuously through and through her the radiance pulsed . 
Began then that infinitely dreadful , but infinitely glorious , rhythm they called the dance of the Shining One . 
Dimly I recognized that what I was beholding was vampirism inconceivable ! The banked tiers chanted . 
The Dweller paused in its gyrations seemed to watch him . 
The Norseman's face was crimson , his eyes blazing . 
From the Dweller shot a shimmering tentacle touched him recoiled . 
Its crystal tinklings changed into an angry chim ing . 
From all about jewelled stalls and jet peak came a sigh of incredulous horror . 
On the instant Larry was over the low barrier between the pillars , rushing to the Norseman's side . 
I tried to follow and was held by Rador . 
He was trem bling but not with fear . 
In his face was incredulous hope , inexplicable eagerness . 
Wait ! The Shining One stretched out a slow spiral , and as it did so I saw the bravest thing man has ever witnessed . 
Instantly O'Keefe thrust himself between it and Olaf , pistol out . 
The tentacle touched him , and the dull blue of his robe flashed out into blinding , intense azure light . 
From the automatic in his gloved hand came three quick bursts of flame straight into the Thing . 
The Dweller drew back the bell sounds swelled . 
Lugur paused , his hand darted up , and in it was one of the silver Keth cones . 
His lips moved , but I could not hear what he said . 
But Lugur understood , for his hand dropped . 
Now Yolara was there all this had taken barely more than five seconds . 
She thrust herself between the three men and the Dweller . 
She spoke to it and the wild buzzing died down the gay crystal tinklings burst forth again . 
The silver light poured in upon us . 
From all the amphitheatre arose a clamour , a shouting . 
Marakinoff , his eyes staring , was lean ing out , listening . 
Unrestrained now by Rador , I vaulted the wall and rushed forward . 
The devil that took my Helma ! I heard him whisper . 
The Shining Devil ! Both these men , Lugur was raging , they shall dance with the Shining one . 
And this one , too . 
He pointed at me malignantly . 
This man is mine , said the priestess , and her voice was menacing . 
She rested her hand on Larry's shoulder . 
I have told you I dare not for this one ! She pointed to Olaf . 
Neither this man , nor this , said Larry , shall be harmed . 
This is my word , Yolara ! Even so , she answered quietly , my lord ! I saw Marakinoff stare at O'Keefe with a new and curi ously speculative interest . 
Lugur's eyes grew hellish he raised his arms as though to strike her . 
Larry's pistol prodded him rudely enough . 
No rough stuff now , kid ! said O'Keefe in English . 
The red dwarf quivered , turned caught a robe from a priest standing by , and threw it over himself . 
The ladala , shouting , gesticulating , fighting with the soldiers , were jostling down from the tiers of jet . 
Come ! commanded Yolara her eyes rested upon Larry . 
Your heart is great , indeed my lord ! she mur mured and her voice was very sweet . 
Come ! This man comes with us , Yolara , said O'Keefe pointing to Olaf . 
Bring him , she said . 
Bring him only tell him to look no more upon me as before ! she added fiercely . 
Beside her the three of us passed along the stalls , where sat the fair haired , now silent , at gaze , as though in the grip of some great doubt . 
Silently Olaf strode beside me . 
Down the stairway , through the hall of turquoise mist , over the rushing sea stream we went and stood beside the wall through which we had entered . 
The white robed ones had gone . 
Yolara pressed the portal opened . 
We stepped upon the car she took the lever we raced through the faintly lumi nous corridor to the house of the priestess . 
And one thing now I knew sick at heart and soul the truth had come to me no more need to search for Throckmartin . 
She paused before an ebon screen . 
Yolara bowed lowly once , twice , thrice . 
She turned to O'Keefe , nor by slightest look or gesture betrayed she knew others were there than he . 
The blue eyes wide , searching , unfathomable , she drew close put white hands on his shoul ders , looked down into his very soul . 
My lord , she murmured . 
Siya and Siyana typified worldly love . 
Their ritual was , however , singularly free from those degrading ele ments usually found in love cults . 
Priests and priestesses of all cults dwelt in the immense seven terraced structure , of which the jet amphi theatre was the water side . 
The symbol , icon , representation , of Siya and Siyana the globe and the up striving figures typified earthly love , feet bound to earth , but eyes among the stars . 
Hell or heaven I never heard formulated , nor their equivalents unless that existence in the Shining One's domain could serve for either . 
Whatever there was , indeed , of high , truly religious impulse among the Murians , this far , High God had . 
Let none dare to take you from me ! Nor ye go from me unbidden ! she whispered fiercely . 
Then swiftly , still ignoring us , she threw her arms about O'Keefe , pressed her white body to his breast , lips raised , eyes closed , seeking his . 
O'Keefe's arms tightened around her , his head dropped lips seeking , finding hers passion ately ! From Olaf came a deep indrawn breath that was al most a groan . 
But not in my heart could I find blame for the Irishman ! The priestess opened eyes now all misty blue , thrust him back , stood regarding him . 
O'Keefe , dead white , raised a trembling hand to his face . 
And thus have I sealed my oath , O my lord ! she whis pered . 
For the first time she seemed to recognize our pres ence , stared at us a moment , then through us , and turned to O'Keefe . 
Go , now ! she said . 
Soon Rador shall come for you . 
Then well , after that let happen what will ! She smiled once more at him so sweetly turned toward the figures upon the great globe sank upon her knees before them . 
Quietly we crept away still silent , made our way to the little pavilion . 
But as we passed we heard a tumult from the green roadway shouts of men , now and then a woman's scream . 
I couldn't help it , he said , half defiantly half miser ably . 
God , what a woman ! I COULDN'T help it ! Larry , I asked . 
Why didn't you tell her you didn't love her then ? He gazed at me the old twinkle back in his eye . 
Spoken like a scientist , Doc ! he exclaimed . 
I suppose if a burning angel struck you out of nowhere and threw it self about you , you would most dignifiedly tell it you didn't want to be burned . 
For God's sake , don't talk nonsense , Goodwin ! he ended , almost peevishly . 
Evil ! Evil ! The Norseman's voice was deep , nearly a chant . 
All here is of evil Trolldom and Helvede it is , Ja ! And that she djaevelsk of beauty what is she but harlot of that shining devil they worship . 
Olaf made a gesture of caution , relapsed into sullen silence . 
There were footsteps on the path , and into sight came Rador but a Rador changed . 
Gone was every vestige of his mockery curiously solemn , he saluted O'Keefe and Olaf with that salute which , before this , I had seen given only to Yolara and to Lugur . 
There came a swift quickening of the tumult died away . 
The ladala are awake ! he said . 
So much for what two brave men can do ! He paused thoughtfully . 
Bones and dust jostle not each other for place against the grave wall ! he added oddly . 
But if bones and dust have revealed to them that they still live He stopped abruptly , eyes seeking the globe that bore and sent forth speech . 
I find that I have neglected to explain the working of these inter esting mechanisms that were telephonic , dictaphonic , telegraphic in one . 
I must assume also that they are familiar with the elementary fact of physics that the vibrations of light and sound are interchangeable . 
The hearing talking globes utilize both these principles , and with con summate simplicity . 
The light with which they shone was produced by an atomic motor within their base , similar to that which activated the merely illuminating globes . 
The composition of the phonic spheres gave their surfaces an acute sensitivity and resonance . 
In conjunction with its energizing power , the metal set up what is called a field of force , which linked it with every particle of its kind no matter how distant . 
When vibrations of speech impinged upon the resonant surface its rhythmic light vibrations were broken , just as a telephone trans mitter breaks an electric current . 
Simultaneously these light vibrations were changed into sound on the surfaces of all spheres tuned to that particular instrument . 
The crawling colours which showed them selves at these times were literally the voice of the speaker in its spec trum equivalent . 
There is to be a feast . 
You , Larree , you Goodwin , are to come . 
I remain here with Olaf . 
No harm to him ! broke in O'Keefe sharply . 
Rador touched his heart , his eyes . 
By the Ancient Ones , and by my love for you , and by what you twain did before the Shining One I swear it ! he whispered . 
Rador clapped palms a soldier came round the path , in his grip a long flat box of polished wood . 
The green dwarf took it , dismissed him , threw open the lid . 
Here is your apparel for the feast , Larree , he said , point ing to the contents . 
He made a quick gesture of angry dissent . 
Nay , Larree ! muttered the dwarf . 
Wear them I coun sel it I pray it ask me not why , he went on swiftly , look ing again at the globe . 
O'Keefe , as I , was impressed by his earnestness . 
The dwarf made a curiously expressive pleading gesture . 
O'Keefe abruptly took the garments passed into the room of the foun tain . 
The Shining One dances not again ? I asked . 
No he hesitate it is the usual feast that follows the sacrament ! Lugur and Double Tongue , who came with you , will be there , he added slowly . 
Lugur I gasped in astonishment . 
Strike up the band came O'Keefe's voice here comes the hero ! He strode into the room . 
I am bound to say that the ad miration in Rador's eyes was reflected in my own , and even , if involuntarily , in Olaf's . 
A son of Siyana ! whispered Rador . 
Come , he ordered and took us to the head of the path way . 
Now , he said grimly , let the Silent Ones show their power if they still have it ! And with this strange benediction , be turned back . 
As we ascended the serpent steps Marakinoff appeared . 
He gave a signal to our guards and I wondered what in fluence the Russian had attained , for promptly , without question , they drew aside . 
At me he smiled amiably . 
Have you found your friends yet ? he went on and now I sensed something deeply sinister in him . 
No ! It is too bad ! Well , don't give up hope . 
Lieutenant , I would like to speak to you alone ! I've no secrets from Goodwin , answered O'Keefe . 
So ? queried Marakinoff , suavely . 
He bent , whispered to Larry . 
The Irishman started , eyed him with a certain shocked in credulity , then turned to me . 
Just a minute , Doc ! he said , and I caught the suspicion of a wink . 
They drew aside , out of ear shot . 
Marakinoff's earnest ness became intense O'Keefe interrupted appeared to question . 
Marakinoff glanced at me and as his gaze shifted from O'Keefe , I saw a flame of rage and horror blaze up in the latter's eyes . 
At last the Irishman appeared to consider gravely nodded as though he had arrived at some decision , and Marakinoff thrust his hand to him . 
Marakinoff , without another look at me , turned and went quickly within . 
The guards took their places . 
I looked at Larry inquiringly . 
Don't ask a thing now , Doc ! he said tensely . 
Wait till we get home . 
They held open the folds . 
The chamber , on whose threshold we stood , was far larger than either anteroom or hall of audience . 
Everywhere the light giving globes sent their roseate radiance . 
The cuirassed dwarfs led us through the aisle . 
Within the arc of the inner half circle was another glittering board , an oval . 
She held out hands to Larry , and on her face was passion una shamed , unhiding . 
She was Circe but Circe conquered . 
Webs of filmiest white clung to the rose leaf body . 
Twisted through the corn silk hair a threaded circlet of pale sapphires shone but they were pale beside Yolara's eyes . 
O'Keefe bent , kissed her hands , something more than mere admiration flaming from him . 
She saw and , smiling , drew him down beside her . 
His gaze turned upon Yolara , rested upon O'Keefe , and instantly his face grew dreadful there is no other word than that for it . 
Marakinoff leaned forward from the centre of the table , near whose end I sat , touched and whispered to him swiftly . 
With appalling effort the red dwarf controlled himself he saluted the priestess ironically , I thought took his place at the further end of the oval . 
And now I noted that the figures between were the seven of that Council of which the Shining One's priestess and Voice were the heads . 
The ten sion relaxed , but did not pass as though a storm cloud should turn away , but still lurk , threatening . 
This end of the room was draped with the exquisitely coloured , graceful curtains looped with gor geous garlands . 
On each side below it , were low carven stools . 
The cur tains parted and softly entered girls bearing their flutes , their harps , the curiously emotion exciting , octaved drums . 
They sank into their places . 
They touched their instruments a faint , languorous measure throbbed through the rosy air . 
Whatever it had been that Mara kinoff had said , clearly it now filled his mind even to the exclusion of the wondrous woman beside him . 
His eyes were stern , cold and now and then , as be turned them toward the Russian , filled with a curious speculation . 
Yolara watched him , frowned , gave a low order to the Hebe behind her . 
The girl disappeared , entered again with a ewer that seemed cut of amber . 
The priestess poured from it into Larry's glass a clear liquid that shook with tiny sparkles of light . 
She raised the glass to her lips , handed it to him . 
Half smiling , half abstractedly , he took it , touched his own lips where hers had kissed drained it . 
A nod from Yolara and the maid refilled his goblet . 
At once there was a swift transformation in the Irishman . 
His abstraction vanished the sternness fled his eyes spar kled . 
He leaned caressingly toward Yolara whispered . 
Her blue eyes flashed triumphantly her chiming laughter rang . 
Yolara swayed close alluring , tempting . 
He arose , face all reckless gaiety rollick ing deviltry . 
But the contempt in his action they did recog nize and a dead , a fearful silence fell upon them all . 
Lu gur's eyes blazed , little sparks of crimson in their green . 
The priestess reached up , caught at O'Keefe . 
He seized the soft hand caressed it his gaze grew far away , sombre . 
An' now again I see the faces of those who dance with it . 
It is the Fires of Mora come , God alone knows how from Erin to this place . 
For when those flames have bitten , both grief and joy take flight Again Yolara tried to draw him down beside her and once more he gripped her hand . 
But now Yolara arose , face set , eyes flashing grey . 
Hear you , the Council , and you , Lugur and all who are here ! she cried . 
Now I , the priestess of the Shining One , take , as is my right , my mate . 
And this is he ! She pointed down upon Larry . 
He glanced up at her . 
Can't quite make out what you say , Yolara , he mut tered thickly . 
But say anything you like I love your voice ! I turned sick with dread . 
Yolara's hand stole softly upon the Irishman's curls caressingly . 
You know the law , Yolara . 
Lugur's voice was flat , deadly , You may not mate with other than your own kind . 
And this man is a stranger a barbarian food for the Shin ing One ! Literally , he spat the phrase . 
No , not of our kind Lugur higher ! Yolara answered serenely . 
Lo , a son of Siya and of Siyana ! A lie ! roared the red dwarf . 
A lie ! The Shining One revealed it to me ! said Yolara sweetly . 
He stood , choking , face hell shadowed Marakinoff leaned out again , whispered . 
The red dwarf bowed , now wholly ironically resumed his place and his silence . 
And again I wondered , icy hearted , what was the power the Russian had so to sway Lugur . 
What says the Council ? Yolara demanded , turning to them . 
Only for a moment they consulted among themselves . 
Then the woman , whose face was a ravaged shrine of beauty , spoke . 
The will of the priestess is the will of the Council ! she answered . 
Defiance died from Yolara's face she looked down at Larry tenderly . 
He sat swaying , crooning . 
Bid the priests come , she commanded , then turned to the silent room . 
Through them filed , two by two , twelve hooded figures clad in flowing robes of the green one sees in forest vistas of opening buds of dawning spring . 
Two by two they stepped upon the raised platform , placed gently upon it each their globe and two by two crouched behind them . 
They formed now a star of six points about the petalled dais , and , simultaneously , they drew from their faces the covering cowls . 
The ashen gold of the maiden priestesses' hair was wound about their brows in shining coronals . 
The pale locks of the youths were clus tered within circlets of translucent , glimmering gems like moonstones . 
And then , crystal globe alternately before and harp alternately held by youth and maid , they began to sing . 
What was that song , I do not know nor ever shall . 
Archaic , ancient beyond thought , it seemed not with the ancientness of things that for uncounted ages have been but wind driven dust . 
A languor stole through me . 
The rosy lights upon the tripods began to die away , and as they faded the milky globes gleamed forth brighter , ever brighter . 
Yolara rose , stretched a hand to Larry , led him through the sextuple groups , and stood face to face with him in the centre of their circle . 
The rose light died all that immense chamber was black , save for the circle of the glowing spheres . 
Within this their milky radiance grew brighter brighter . 
Weirdly , caressingly , com pellingly the harp notes throbbed in repeated , re repeated theme , holding within itself the same archaic golden quality I had noted in the singing . 
And over the moon flame pin nacles rose higher ! Yolara lifted her arms within her hands were clasped O'Keefe's . 
And ever despair grew deeper in my soul ! What was that ! I started to my feet , and all around me in the darkness I heard startled motion . 
From without came a blaring of trumpets , the sound of running men , loud mur murings . 
Abruptly the harpings ceased the moon fires shuddered , fell , and began to sweep back into the crystal globes Yo lara's swaying form grew rigid , every atom of it listening . 
She threw aside the veiling cloud of hair , and in the gleam of the last retreating spirals her face glared out like some old Greek mask of tragedy . 
The sweet lips that even at their sweetest could never lose their delicate cruelty , had no sweetness now . 
All drunkenness gone , himself again , he was staring down at her , and in his eyes were loathing and horror unutterable . 
So they stood and the light fled . 
Only for a moment did the darkness hold . 
With lightning swiftness the blackness that was the chamber's other wall vanished . 
Through a portal open between grey screens , the silver sparkling radiance poured . 
Their long muzzles , lips half open in monstrous grin , held rows of glistening , slender , lancet sharp fangs . 
Over the glaring eyes arose a horny hel met , a carapace of black and orange scales , studded with foot long lance headed horns . 
The webbed hands and feet ended in yellow , spade shaped claws . 
But of him I caught but a fleeting , involuntary impression all my gaze was for her . 
For it was she who had pointed out to us the way from the peril of the Dweller's lair on Nan Tauach . 
And as I looked at her , I marvelled that ever could I have thought the priestess more beautiful . 
Into the eyes of O'Keefe rushed joy and an utter abasement of shame . 
And from all about came murmurs edged with anger , half incredulous , tinged with fear Lakla ! Lakla ! The handmaiden ! She halted close beside me . 
From firm little chin to dainty buskined feet she was swathed in the soft robes of dull , almost coppery hue . 
The left arm was hidden , the right free and gloved . 
Wound tight about it was one of the vines of the sculptured wall and of Lugur's circled signet ring . 
Thick , a vivid green , its five tendrils ran between her fingers , stretch ing out five flowered heads that gleamed like blossoms cut from gigantic , glowing rubies . 
So she stood contemplating Yolara . 
I noted the low , broad brow , the proud little nose , the tender mouth , and the soft sunlight glow that seemed to transfuse the delicate skin . 
And suddenly in the eyes dawned a smile sweet , friendly , a touch of roguishness , profoundly reassuring in its all humanness . 
And involuntarily I smiled back at her . 
She spoke , and her voice , deep timbred , liquid gold as was Yolara's all silver , was subtly the synthesis of all the golden glowing beauty of her . 
The Silent Ones have sent me , O Yolara , she said . 
And this is their command to you that you deliver to me to bring before them three of the four strangers who have found their way here . 
For him there who plots with Lugur she pointed at Marakinoff , and I saw Yolara start they have no need . 
Into his heart the Silent Ones have looked and Lugur and you may keep him , Yolara ! There was honeyed venom in the last words . 
Yolara was herself now only the edge of shrillness on her voice revealed her wrath as she answered . 
Beneath the insult and the acid disdain , the blood rushed up under Lakla's ambered ivory skin . 
Yolara her voice was low of no use is it to question me . 
I am but the messenger of the Silent Ones . 
No ! Yolara spat the word . 
No ! Now by Thanaroa and by the Shining One , no ! Her eyes blazed , her nostrils were wide , in her fair throat a little pulse beat angrily . 
You , Lakla take you my message to the Silent Ones . 
Say to them that I keep this man she pointed to Larry because he is mine . 
Say to them that I keep the yellow haired one and him she pointed to me because it pleases me . 
Tell them that upon their mouths I place my foot , so ! she stamped upon the dais viciously and that in their faces I spit ! and her action was hideously snakelike . 
Not unforeseen by the three was this , Yolara , she re plied . 
And did you speak as you have spoken then was I bidden to say this to you . 
Three tal have you to take counsel , Yolara . 
Into the silver sweet chiming of her laughter clashed that of Lugur and after a little the nobles took it up , till the whole chamber echoed with their mirth . 
O'Keefe , lips tightening , moved toward the Handmaiden , and almost imperceptibly , but peremptorily , she waved him back . 
Those ARE great words great words indeed , choya , shrilled Yolara at last and again Lakla winced beneath the word . 
Lo , for laya upon laya , the Shining One has been freed from the Three and for laya upon laya they have sat helpless , rotting . 
Into the eyes of Lakla I saw creep a doubt , a wavering as though deep within her the foundations of her own belief were none too firm . 
Look ! Why , even SHE does not believe ! Her voice grew silk of silver merciless , cruel . 
Now am I minded to send another answer to the Silent Ones . 
But before she could level it the Golden Girl had released that hidden left arm and thrown over her face a fold of the metallic swathings . 
Swifter than Yolara , she raised the arm that held the vine and now I knew this was no inert blos soming thing . 
From the swelling throat pouch of the monster behind her came a succession of the reverberant boomings . 
The frog men wheeled , raised their lances , levelled them at the throng . 
Around the reaching ruby flowers a faint red mist swiftly grew . 
The silver cone dropped from Yolara's rigid fingers her eyes grew stark with horror all her unearthly loveliness fled from her she stood pale lipped . 
The Handmaiden dropped the protecting veil and now it was she who laughed . 
It would seem , then , Yolara , that there IS a thing of the Silent Ones ye fear ! she said . 
Well the kiss of the Yekta I promise you in return for the embrace of your Shining One . 
She looked at Larry , long , searchingly , and suddenly again with all that effect of sunlight bursting into dark places , her smile shone upon him . 
She nodded , half gaily looked down upon me , the little merry light dancing in her eyes waved her hand to me . 
She spoke to the giant frog man . 
He wheeled behind her as she turned , facing the priestess , club upraised , fangs glis tening . 
His troop moved not a jot , spears held high . 
Lakla began to pass slowly almost , I thought , tauntingly and as she reached the portal Larry leaped from the dais . 
You'll not be leavin' me just when I've found you ! In his excitement he spoke in his own tongue , the velvet brogue appealing . 
Lakla turned , contemplated O'Keefe , hesi tant , unquestionably longingly , irresistibly like a child mak ing up her mind whether she dared or dared not take a delectable something offered her . 
I go with you , said O'Keefe , this time in her own speech . 
Come on , Doc ! He reached out a hand to me . 
Life and beauty had flowed back into her face , and in the purple eyes all her hosts of devils were gathered . 
Do you forget what I promised you before Siya and Siyana ? And do you think that you can leave me me as though I were a choya like HER . 
Do you Now , listen , Yolara , Larry interrupted almost plain tively . 
No promise has passed from me to you and why would you hold me ? He passed unconsciously into English . 
And why don't you get rid of that devilish pet of yours , and be good ! She looked at him , puzzled , Marakinoff leaned over , trans lated to Lugur . 
The red dwarf smiled maliciously , drew near the priestess whispered to her what was without doubt as near as he could come in the Murian to Larry's own very colloquial phrases . 
Hear me , Lakla ! she cried . 
Now would I not let you take this man from me were I to dwell ten thousand laya in the agony of the Yekta's kiss . 
Be silent , you ! It was almost a shriek . 
And her hand again sought in her breast for the cone of rhythmic death . 
Lugur touched her arm , whispered again , The glint of guile shone in her eyes she laughed softly , relaxed . 
The Silent Ones , Lakla , bade you say that they allowed me three tal to decide , she said suavely . 
Go now in peace , Lakla , and say that Yolara has heard , and that for the three tal they allow her she will take council . 
The Silent Ones have said it , she answered at last . 
Stay you here , strangers the long lashes drooped as her eyes met O'Keefe's and a hint of blush was in her cheeks stay you here , strangers , till then . 
Their eyes met , clashed , burned into each other black flame from Abaddon and golden flame from Paradise . 
Remember ! said Lakla , and passed through the portal . 
The gigantic frog man boomed a thunderous note of com mand , his grotesque guards turned and slowly followed their mistress and last of all passed out the monster with the mace . 
CHAPTER XXI Larry's Defiance A CLAMOUR arose from all the chambers stilled in an in stant by a motion of Yolara's hand . 
She stood silent , regard ing O'Keefe with something other now than blind wrath something half regretful , half beseeching . 
But the Irishman's control was gone . 
Yolara , his voice shook with rage , and he threw cau tion to the wind now hear ME . 
I go where I will and when I will . 
Here shall we stay until the time she named is come . 
And then we follow her , whether you will or not . 
And if any should have thought to stop us tell them of that flame that shattered the vase , he added grimly . 
The wistfulness died out of her eyes , leaving them cold . 
But no answer made she to him . 
What Lakla has said , the Council must consider , and at once . 
The priestess was facing the nobles . 
Now , friends of mine , and friends of Lugur , must all feud , all rancour , be tween us end . 
She glanced swiftly at Lugur . 
The ladala are stirring , and the Silent Ones threaten . 
Yet fear not for are we not strong under the Shining One ? And now leave us . 
Her hand dropped to the table , and she gave , evidently , a signal , for in marched a dozen or more of the green dwarfs . 
Take these two to their place , she commanded , point ing to us . 
The green dwarfs clustered about us . 
Without another look at the priestess O'Keefe marched beside me , between them , from the chamber . 
And it was not until we had reached the pillared entrance that Larry spoke . 
I hate to talk like that to a woman , Doc , he said , and a pretty woman , at that . 
But first she played me with a marked deck , and then not only pinched all the chips , but drew a gun on me . 
What the hell ! she nearly had me MARRIED to her . 
One jigger of it , and you forget there is a trouble in the world three of them , and you forget there is a world . 
I must admit that I'm a bit uneasy about her threats , I said , ignoring all this . 
I've all the love and admiration for you in the world but this place has got your nerve . 
Hereafter one Larry O'Keefe , of Ireland and the little old U. S. A. , leads this party . 
Nix on the tremolo stop , nix on the superstition ! I'm the works . 
Get me ? Yes , I get you ! I exclaimed testily enough . 
But to use your own phrase , kindly can the repeated references to superstition . 
Why should I ? He was almost wrathful . 
Olaf's no better , he said . 
But I can make allowances for him . 
What this expedition needs is a man without superstition . 
The lepre chaun promised that I'd have full warning before anything happened . 
And if we do have to go out , we'll see that banshee bunch clean up before we do , and pass in a blaze of glory . 
Hereafter I'm in charge ! By this time we were before our pavilion and neither of us in a very amiable mood I'm afraid . 
Rador was awaiting us with a score of his men . 
Let none pass in here without authority and let none pass out unless I accompany them , he ordered bruskly . 
Summon one of the swiftest of the coria and have it wait in readiness , he added , as though by afterthought . 
But when we had entered and the screens were drawn together his manner changed all eagerness he questioned us . 
Briefly we told him of the happenings at the feast , of Lakla's dramatic interruption , and of what had followed . 
Three tal , he said musingly three tal the Silent Ones have allowed and Yolara agreed . 
He sank back , silent and thoughtful . 
A tal in Muria is the equivalent of thirty hours of earth surface time . 
W. T. G. Ja ! It was Olaf . 
Ja ! I told you the Shining Devil's mis tress was all evil . 
Ja ! Now I begin again that tale I started when he came he glanced toward the preoccupied Rador . 
And tell him not what I say should he ask . 
I said to myself , 'If they think I have no ears to hear , they will speak and it may be I will find a way to save my Helma and Dr . 
Good win's friends , too . 
Ja , and they did speak . 
The red Trolde asked the Russian how came it he was a worshipper of Thanaroa . 
I could not resist a swift glance of triumph toward O'Keefe . 
And the Russian , rumbled Olaf , said that all his people worshipped Thanaroa and had fought against the other nations that denied him . 
And then we had come to Lugur's palace . 
They put me in rooms , and there came to me men who rubbed and oiled me and loosened my muscles . 
The next day I wrestled with a great dwarf they called Valdor . 
He was a mighty man , and long we struggled , and at last I broke his back . 
And Lugur was pleased , so that I sat with him at feast and with the Russian , too . 
And again , not knowing that I understood them , they talked . 
The Russian had gone fast and far . 
They talked of Lugur as emperor of all Europe , and Marakinoff under him . 
But the Russian said that among his race were many wise men who could make more once they had studied it . 
And the next day I wrestled with a great dwarf named Tahola , mightier far than Valdor . 
Him I threw after a long , long time , and his back also I broke . 
I know about them , said Larry . 
Wait ! Lugur had drunk much , went on Olaf . 
The Russian pressed him to show this thing . 
After a while the red one went out and came back with a little golden box . 
He and the Russian went into the garden . 
There was a lille Hoj a mound of stones in that garden on which grew flowers and trees . 
Lugur pressed upon the box , and a spark no bigger than a sand grain leaped out and fell beside the stones . 
Lugur pressed again , and a blue light shot from the box and lighted on the spark . 
The spark that had been no bigger than a grain of sand grew and grew as the blue struck it . 
And then there was a sighing , a wind blew and the stones and the flowers and the trees were not . 
They were forsvinde vanished ! Then Lugur , who had been laughing , grew quickly sober for he thrust the Russian back far back . 
And soon down into the garden came tumbling the stones and the trees , but broken and shattered , and falling as though from a great height . 
And Lugur said that of THIS something they had much , for its making was a secret handed down by their own forefathers and not by the Ancient Ones . 
Thereafter I listened when I could , and little more I learned , but that little enough . 
Ja ! Lugur is hot for conquest so Yolara and so the Council . 
But Larry's was the fighting face of the O'Keefes of a thousand years . 
Rador glanced at him , arose , stepped through the curtains returned swiftly with the Irishman's uniform . 
Put it on , he said , bruskly again fell back into his silence and whatever O'Keefe had been about to say was sub merged in his wild and joyful whoop . 
He ripped from him glittering tunic and leg swathings . 
Richard is himself again ! he shouted and each garment as he donned it , fanned his old devil may care confidence to a higher flame . 
The last scrap of it on , he drew himself up before us . 
Bow down , ye divils ! he cried . 
Larry , I cried , are you going crazy ? Not a bit of it , he said . 
I'm that and more if Comrade Marakinoff is on the level . 
Whoop ! Bring forth the royal jewels an' put a whole new bunch of golden strings in Tara's harp an' down with the Sassenach forever ! Whoop ! He did a wild jig . 
Lord how good the old togs feel , he grinned . 
The touch of 'em has gone to my head . 
But it's straight stuff I'm telling you about my empire . 
Not that it's not serious enough at that . 
A lot that Olaf's told us I've surmised from hints dropped by Yolara . 
Maybe he had a hint maybe he just surmised that I knew a lot more than I did . 
And he thought Yolara and I were going to be loving little turtle doves . 
Also he figured that Yolara had a lot more influence with the Unholy Fire works than Lugur . 
Also that being a woman she could be more easily handled . 
My reward from Russia was to be said emperorship ! Can you beat it ? Good Lord ! He went off into a perfect storm of laughter . 
And yet , he was quiet enough now , I'm a bit scared . 
They've got the Keth ray and those gravity destroying bombs Gravity destroying bombs ! I gasped . 
The little fairy that sent the trees and stones kiting up from Lugur's garden . 
Marakinoff licked his lips over them . 
Not lightly , as he , did I hold that dread mystery , the Dweller and a vision passed before me , a vision of an Apocalypse undreamed by the Evangelist . 
He bent over its base did something with its mechanism beckoned to us . 
The globe swam rapidly , faster than ever I had seen it before . 
A low humming arose , changed into a murmur , and then from it I heard Lugur's voice clearly . 
It is to be war then ? There was a chorus of assent from the Council , I thought . 
I will take the tall one named Larree . 
It was the priest ess's voice . 
After the three tal , you may have him , Lugur , to do with as you will . 
No ! it was Lugur's voice again , but with a rasp of anger . 
He shall die , again Yolara . 
But I would that first he see Lakla pass and that she know what is to happen to him . 
No ! I started for this was Marakinoff . 
Now is no time , Yolara , for one's own desires . 
At the end of the three tal Lakla will come for our answer . 
Your men will be in ambush and they will slay her and her escort quickly with the Keth . 
But not till that is done must the three be slain and then quickly . 
With Lakla dead we shall go forth to the Silent Ones and I promise you that I will find the way to destroy them ! It is well ! It was Lugur . 
It IS well , Yolara . 
It was a woman's voice , and I knew it for that old one of ravaged beauty . 
Cast from your mind whatever is in it for this stranger either of love or hatred . 
In this the Council is with Lugur and the man of wisdom . 
Then came the priestess's voice , sul len but beaten . 
It is well ! Let the three be taken now by Rador to the temple and given to the High Priest Sator thus Lugur until what we have planned comes to pass . 
Rador gripped the base of the globe abruptly it ceased its spinning . 
He turned to us as though to speak and even as he did so its bell note sounded peremptorily and on it the colour films began to creep at their accustomed pace . 
I hear , the green dwarf whispered . 
They shall be taken there at once . 
You have heard , he turned to us . 
Not on your life , Rador , said Larry . 
Nothing doing ! And then in the Murian's own tongue . 
We follow Lakla , Rador . 
And YOU lead the way . 
He thrust the pistol close to the green dwarf's side . 
Of what use , Larree ? he said , quietly . 
Me you can slay but in the end you will be taken . 
Life is not held so dear in Muria that my men out there or those others who can come quickly will let you by even though you slay many . 
And in the end they will overpower you . 
There was a trace of irresolution in O'Keefe's face . 
And , added Rador , if I let you go I dance with the Shining One or worse ! O'Keefe's pistol hand dropped . 
You're a good sport , Rador , and far be it from me to get you in bad , he said . 
We passed out of that gay little pavilion that had come to be home to us even in this alien place . 
The guards stood at attention . 
You , Sattoya , stand by the globe , he ordered one of them . 
Should the Afyo Maie ask , say that I am on my way with the strangers even as she has commanded . 
We passed through the lines to the corial standing like a great shell at the end of the runway leading into the green road . 
Wait you here , he said curtly to the driver . 
The green dwarf ascended to his seat , sought the lever and we swept on on and out upon the glistening obsidian . 
Then Rador faced us and laughed . 
I am done with Lugur and with Yolara and the Shining One ! cried Rador . 
My hand is for you three and for Lakla and those to whom she is handmaiden ! The shell leaped forward seemed to fly . 
CHAPTER XXII The Casting of the Shadow NOW we were racing down toward that last span whose ancientness had set it apart from all the other soaring arches . 
The shell's speed slackened we approached warily . 
We pass there ? asked O'Keefe . 
The green dwarf nodded , pointing to the right where the bridge ended in a broad platform held high upon two gigantic piers , between which ran a spur from the glistening road . 
Platform and bridge were swarming with men at arms they crowded the parapets , looking down upon us curiously but with no evidence of hostility . 
Rador drew a deep breath of relief . 
We don't have to break our way through , then ? There was disappointment in the Irishman's voice . 
No use , Larree ! Smiling , Rador stopped the corial just beneath the arch and beside one of the piers . 
They have had no warning , hence does Yolara still think us on the way to the temple . 
This is the gateway of the Portal and the gateway is closed by the Shadow . 
Once I commanded here and I know its laws . 
This must I do by craft persuade Serku , the keeper of the gateway , to lift the Shadow or raise it myself . 
And that will be hard and it may well be that in the struggle life will be stripped of us all . 
Yet is it better to die fighting than to dance with the Shining One ! He swept the shell around the pier . 
Opened a wide plaza paved with the volcanic glass , but black as that down which we had sped from the chamber of the Moon Pool . 
Along all four stairways the guards were ranged and here and there against the ledge stood the shells in a curiously comforting resemblance to parked motors in our own world . 
Guarding its threshold stood two guards , armed with broadswords , double handed , terminating in a wide lunette mouthed with murderous fangs . 
These they raised in salute and through the portal strode a dwarf huge as Rador , dressed as he and carrying only the poniard that was the badge of office of Muria's captainry . 
The green dwarf swept the shell expertly against the ledge leaped out . 
Greeting , Serku ! he answered . 
I was but looking for the coria of Lakla . 
Why , the handmaiden passed with her Akka nigh a va ago ! Passed ! The astonishment of the green dwarf was so real that half was I myself deceived . 
You let her PASS ? Certainly I let her pass But under the green dwarf's stern gaze the truculence of the guardian faded . 
Why should I not ? he asked , apprehensively . 
Because Yolara commanded otherwise , answered Rador , coldly . 
There came no command to me . 
Little beads of sweat stood out on Serku's forehead . 
Serku , interrupted the green dwarf swiftly , truly is my heart wrung for you . 
Now truly is my heart wrung , for there are few I would less like to see dance with the Shining One than you , Serku , he ended , softly . 
Livid now was the gateway's guardian , his great frame shaking . 
Come with me and speak to Yolara , he pleaded . 
There came no message tell her Wait , Serku ! There was a thrill as of inspiration in Rador's voice . 
This corial is of the swiftest Lakla's are of the slowest . 
With Lakla scarce a va ahead we can reach her before she enters the Portal . 
Lift you the Shadow we will bring her back , and this will I do for you , Serku . 
Why not go alone , Rador , leaving the strangers here with me ? he asked and I thought not unreasonably . 
The green dwarf was brusk . 
Lakla will not return unless I carry to her these men as evidence of our good faith . 
Come we will speak to Yolara and she shall judge you He started away but Serku caught his arm . 
No , Rador , no ! he whispered , again panic stricken . 
Go you as you will . 
But bring her back ! Speed , Rador ! He sprang toward the entrance . 
I lift the Shadow Into the green dwarf's poise crept a curious , almost a listening , alertness . 
He leaped to Serku's side . 
I go with you , I heard . 
Some little I can tell you They were gone . 
Fine work ! muttered Larry . 
And then from the portal sped a shriek , a death cry ! It cut through the silence of the ebon pit like a whimpering arrow . 
Before it had died , down the stairways came pouring the guards . 
Those at the threshold raised their swords and peered within . 
Abruptly Rador was between them . 
One dropped his hilt and gripped him the green dwarf's poniard flashed and was buried in his throat . 
Down upon Rador's head swept the second blade . 
A flame leaped from O'Keefe's hand and the sword seemed to fling itself from its wielder's grasp another flash and the soldier crumpled . 
The corial's flight was checked as by a giant's hand . 
The shell swerved sickeningly there was an oddly metallic splintering it quivered shot ahead . 
Dizzily I picked myself up and looked behind . 
The Shadow had fallen but too late , a bare instant too late . 
Snappy work , Rador ! It was Larry speaking . 
But they cut the end off your bus all right ! A full quarter of the hindward whorl was gone , sliced off cleanly . 
Rador noted it with anxious eyes . 
That is bad , he said , but not too bad perhaps . 
All depends upon how closely Lugur and his men can follow us . 
He raised a hand to O'Keefe in salute . 
Serku the green dwarf drew from his girdle the blood stained poniard Serku I was forced to slay . 
Even as he raised the Shadow the globe gave the alarm . 
Lugur follows with twice ten times ten of his best He hesitated . 
Though we have escaped the Shadow it has taken toll of our swift ness . 
May we reach the Portal before it closes upon Lakla but if we do not He paused again . 
I crept to the torn end of the corial . 
The edges were crumbling , disinte grated . 
They powdered in my fingers like dust . 
Mystified still , I crept back where Larry , sheer happiness pouring from him , was whistling softly and polishing up his automatic . 
His gaze fell upon Olaf's grim , sad face and softened . 
Buck up , Olaf ! he said . 
We've got a good fighting chance . 
Once we link up with Lakla and her crowd I'm betting that we get your wife never doubt it ! The baby he hesitated awkwardly . 
The Norseman's eyes filled he stretched a hand to the O'Keefe . 
The Yndling she is of the de Dode , he half whispered , of the blessed dead . 
For her I have no fear and for her vengeance will be given me . 
I do not know how to fight the Shining Devil no ! His bitter despair welled up in his voice . 
Olaf , Larry's voice was gentle . 
We'll come out on top I know it . 
All this stuff that seems so strange and and , well , sort of supernatural , is just a lot of tricks we're not hep to as yet . 
Not that we're Fijians , of course , but the prin ciple is the same . 
The Norseman considered this nodded gravely . 
Ja ! he answered at last . 
And at least we can fight . 
That is why I have turned to Thor of the battles , Ja ! And ONE have I hope in for mine Helma the white maiden . 
Since I have turned to the old gods it has been made clear to me that I shall slay Lugur and that the Heks , the evil witch Yolara , shall also die . 
But I would talk with the white maiden . 
All right , said Larry , but just don't be afraid of what you don't understand . 
Yes , went on Larry , rapidly . 
It's this way I figure that the frogs grow rather large where she lives , and they're a bit different too . 
Well , Lakla's got a lot of 'em trained . 
Carry spears and clubs and all that junk just like trained seals or monkeys or so on in the circus . 
Probably a custom of the place . 
Nothing queer about that , Olaf . 
Why people have all kinds of pets armadillos and snakes and rabbits , kangaroos and elephants and tigers . 
Remembering how the frog woman had stuck in Larry's mind from the outset , I wondered whether all this was not more to convince himself than Olaf . 
Why , I remember a nice girl in Paris who had four pet pythons he went on . 
But I listened no more , for now I was sure of my surmise . 
The road had begun to thrust itself through high flung , sharply pinnacled masses and rounded outcroppings of rock on which clung patches of the amber moss . 
The trees had utterly vanished , and studding the moss carpeted plains were only clumps of a willowy shrub from which hung , like grapes , clusters of white waxen blooms . 
The light too had changed gone were the dancing , sparkling atoms and the silver had faded to a soft , almost ashen grey ness . 
Ahead of us marched a rampart of coppery cliffs rising , like all these mountainous walls we had seen , into the im mensities of haze . 
Something long drifting in my subcon sciousness turned to startled realization . 
The Shadow takes its toll , he said . 
We topped a rise Larry gripped my arm . 
Look ! he cried , and pointed . 
Far , far behind us , so far that the road was but a glistening thread , a score of shining points came speeding . 
Lugur and his men , said Rador . 
Can't you step on her ? asked Larry . 
Step on her ? repeated the green dwarf , puzzled . 
Give her more speed push her , explained O'Keefe . 
Faintly behind us came shootings , and we knew that Lugur drew close . 
Nor anywhere was there sign of Lakla nor her frogmen . 
One last chance ! exclaimed Rador . 
He pressed upon the control lever and wrenched it from its socket . 
Instantly the sparkling ball expanded , whirling with prodigious rapidity and sending a cascade of coruscations into the cylinder . 
The shell rose leaped through the air the dark crystal split into fragments the fiery ball dulled died but upon the impetus of that last thrust we reached the crest . 
As the rampart reared close he threw himself upon Rador hurled him and himself against the side of the flying whorl . 
Under the shock the finely balanced machine swerved from its course . 
It struck the soft , low bank of the road , shot high in air , bounded on through the thick carpeting , whirled like a dervish and fell upon its side . 
Shot from it , we rolled for yards , but the moss saved broken bones or serious bruise . 
Quick ! cried the green dwarf . 
He seized an arm , dragged me to my feet , began running to the cliff base not a hundred feet away . 
Beside us raced O'Keefe and Olaf . 
At our left was the black road . 
It stopped abruptly was cut off by a slab of polished crimson stone a hundred feet high , and as wide , set within the coppery face of the barrier . 
On each side of it stood pillars , cut from the living rock and immense , almost , as those which held the rainbow veil of the Dweller . 
Across its face weaved unnameable carvings but I had no time for more than a glance . 
The green dwarf gripped my arm again . 
Quick ! he cried again . 
The handmaiden has passed ! At the right of the Portal ran a low wall of shattered rock . 
Over this we raced like rabbits . 
Hidden behind it was a narrow path . 
The first of the pursuing shells had swept over the lip of the great bowl , poised for a moment as we had and then began a cautious descent . 
Within it , scanning the slopes , I saw Lugur . 
A little closer and I'll get him ! whispered Larry viciously . 
His hand was caught in a mighty grip Rador , eyes blaz ing , stood beside him . 
No ! rasped the green dwarf . 
He heaved a shoulder against one of the boulders that formed the pocket . 
It rocked aside , revealing a slit . 
In ! ordered he , straining against the weight of the stone . 
Olaf at his back , I following . 
With a lightning leap the dwarf was beside me , the huge rock missing him by a hair breadth as it swung into place ! We were in Cimmerian darkness . 
I felt for my pocket flash and recalled with distress that I had left it behind with my medicine kit when we fled from the gardens . 
But Rador seemed to need no light . 
Grip hands ! he ordered . 
We crept , single file , holding to each other like children , through the black . 
At last the green dwarf paused . 
Await me here , he whispered . 
And for your lives be silent ! And he was gone . 
CHAPTER XXIII Dragon Worm and Moss Death FOR a small eternity to me at least we waited . 
Then as silent as ever the green dwarf returned . 
It is well , he said , some of the strain gone from his voice . 
Grip hands again , and follow . 
Wait a bit , Rador , this was Larry . 
Lugur knows the secret of the Portal if he dare use it , answered the captain , with a curious indirection . 
And now that they have challenged the Silent Ones I think he WILL dare . 
Also , he will find our tracks and it may be that he knows this hidden way . 
Well , for God's sake ! O'Keefe's appalled bewilderment was almost ludicrous . 
If HE knows all that , and YOU knew all that , why didn't you let me click him when I had the chance ? Larree , the green dwarf was oddly humble . 
It seemed good to me , too at first . 
I thought , Rador was whispering I thought it came from the Silent Ones ! Superstition ! groaned O'Keefe in utter exasperation . 
Always superstition ! What can you do against it ! Never mind , Rador . 
His sense of humour came to his aid . 
It's too late now , anyway . 
Where do we go from here , old dear ? he laughed . 
We tread the path of one I am not fain to meet , answered Rador . 
It's getting too deep for me , Doc , he muttered de jectedly . 
Can you make head or tail of it ? No , I answered , shortly enough , but Rador fears some thing and that's his description of it . 
Sure , he replied , only it's a code I don't understand . 
I could feel his grin . 
All right for the flower of cold fire , Rador , and I won't look into his eyes , he went on cheerfully . 
But hadn't we better be moving ? Come ! said the soldier again hand in hand we went blindly on . 
O'Keefe was muttering to himself . 
Flower of cold fire ! Don't look into his eyes ! Some joint ! Damned superstition . 
Then he chuckled and carolled , softly Oh , mama , pin a cold rose on me Two young frog men are in love with me Shut my eyes so I can't see . 
Sh ! Rador was warning he began whispering . 
For half a va we go along a way of death . 
From its peril we pass into another against whose dangers I can guard you . 
But in part this is in view of the roadway and it may be that Lugur will see us . 
If so , we must fight as best we can . 
If we pass these two roads safely , then is the way to the Crimson Sea clear , nor need we fear Lugur nor any . 
And there is another thing that Lugur does not know when he opens the Portal the Silent Ones will hear and Lakla and the Akka will be swift to greet its opener . 
Rador , I asked , how know YOU all this ? The handmaiden is my own sister's child , he answered quietly . 
O'Keefe drew a long breath . 
For me a light broke . 
Speculation as to the marked differences in pigmentation and appearance of niece and uncle was dissipated by my consciousness that we were now moving in a dim half light . 
We were in a fairly wide tunnel . 
Not far ahead the gleam filtered , pale yellow like sunlight sifting through the leaves of autumn poplars . 
And as we drove closer to its source I saw that it did indeed pass through a leafy screen hanging over the passage end . 
This Rador drew aside cautiously , beckoned us and we stepped through . 
It appeared to be a tunnel cut through soft green mould . 
Its base was a flat strip of pathway a yard wide from which the walls curved out in perfect cylindrical form , smoothed and evened with utmost nicety . 
Thirty feet wide they were at their widest , then drew toward each other with no break in their symmetry they did not close . 
Quick ! commanded Rador , uneasily , and set off at a sharp pace . 
Now , my eyes accustomed to the strange light , I saw that the tunnel's walls were of moss . 
gigantic spore cases brown and white , saffron and ivory , hot vermilions and cerulean blues , pressed into an astounding mosaic by some titanic force . 
Hurry ! It was Rador calling . 
He quickened the pace to a half run we were climbing panting . 
The amber light grew stronger the rift above us wider . 
The tunnel curved on the left a narrow cleft ap peared . 
The green dwarf leaped toward it , thrust us within , pushed us ahead of him up a steep rocky fissure well nigh , indeed , a chimney . 
Up and up this we scrambled until my lungs were bursting and I thought I could climb no more . 
The crevice ended we crawled out and sank , even Rador , upon a little leaf carpeted clearing circled by lacy tree ferns . 
Gasping , legs aching , we lay prone , relaxed , drawing back strength and breath . 
Rador was first to rise . 
Thrice he bent low as in homage , then Give thanks to the Silent Ones for their power has been over us ! he exclaimed . 
Dimly I wondered what he meant . 
Something about the fern leaf at which I had been staring aroused me . 
I leaped to my feet and ran to its base . 
And through the light , like showers of jewels , myriads of birds , darting , dipping , soaring , and still other myriads of gigantic , shimmering butterflies . 
The Portal ! said Rador . 
Lugur has entered ! He , too , parted the fronds and peered back along our path . 
Peering with him we saw the barrier through which we had come stretching verdure covered walls for miles three or more away . 
They come ! whispered Rador . 
Quick ! We must not meet them here ! And then Holy St . 
Now swiftly the Thing upreared , standing like a scaled tower a hundred feet above the rift , its eyes scanning that movement I had seen along the course of its lair . 
There was a hissing the crown of horns fell , whipped and writhed like the tentacles of an octopus the towering length dropped back . 
Quick ! gasped Rador and through the fern moss , along the path and down the other side of the steep we raced . 
Patrick ! O'Keefe gazed ruminatively at his automatic . 
An' he expected me to kill THAT with this . 
The dragon worm ! Rador said . 
It was Helvede Orm the hell worm ! groaned Olaf . 
There you go again blazed Larry but the green dwarf was hurrying down the path and swiftly we followed , Larry muttering , Olaf mumbling , behind me . 
The green dwarf was signalling us for caution . 
Quickly we passed on drew away from the coria path . 
The mosses began to thin less and less they grew , giving way to low clumps that barely offered us shelter . 
Unexpectedly another screen of fern moss stretched before us . 
Slowly Rador made his way through it and stood hesitat ing . 
The scene in front of us was oddly weird and depressing in some indefinable way dreadful . 
Why , I could not tell , but the impression was plain I shrank from it . 
Our path ran between a few of them . 
To the left they were thick . 
They were viridescent , almost metallic hued verd antique . 
My repulsion grew into a distinct nausea . 
Rador turned to us a face whiter far than that with which he had looked upon the dragon worm . 
Now for your lives , he whispered , tread softly here as I do and speak not at all ! He stepped forward on tiptoe , slowly with utmost caution . 
Now what are we up against ? grumbled O'Keefe . 
The green dwarf stretched a hand stiffened gazed over to the left of us beyond a lower hillock upon whose broad crest lay a file of the moss shapes . 
They fringed it , their mitres having a grotesque appearance of watching what lay below . 
The glistening road lay there and from it came a shout . 
Not much ! grunted Larry and took swift aim at Lugur . 
The automatic spat Olaf's echoed . 
Both bullets went wild , for Lugur , still laughing , threw himself into the protection of the body of his shell . 
But following the shots , from the file of moss heaps on the crest , came a series of muffled explo sions . 
Through this cloud I glimpsed their faces , stricken with agony . 
Some turned to fly , but before they could take a second step stood rigid . 
Olaf's right , he gasped . 
This IS hell ! I'm sick . 
And he was , frankly and without restraint . 
Lugur and his others awakened from their nightmare piled into the coria , wheeled , raced away . 
On ! said Rador thickly . 
Two perils have we passed the Silent Ones watch over us ! Soon we were again among the familiar and so unfamiliar moss giants . 
I knew what I had seen and this time Larry could not call me superstitious . 
Here was but another of the species in which the development's rate was incredibly accelerated . 
Some of this I tried to explain to O'Keefe as we sped along , reassur ing him . 
But they turned to moss before our eyes ! he said . 
Again I explained , patiently . 
But he seemed to derive no comfort at all from my assurances that the phenomena were entirely natural and , aside from their more terrifying aspect , of peculiar interest to the botanist . 
I know , was all he would say . 
Now is all danger passed , he said . 
The way lies open and Lugur has fled There was a flash from the road . 
It passed me like a little lariat of light . 
It struck Larry squarely between the eyes , spread over his face and drew itself within ! Down ! cried Rador , and hurled me to the ground . 
My head struck sharply I felt myself grow faint Olaf fell beside me I saw the green dwarf draw down the O'Keefe he col lapsed limply , face still , eyes staring . 
A shout and from the roadway poured a host of Lugur's men I could hear Lugur bellowing . 
There came a rush of little feet soft , fragrant draperies brushed my face dimly I watched Lakla bend over the Irish man . 
Another rush of feet and down upon Lugur's forces poured the frog men , their booming giant leading , thrusting with their lances , tearing and rending with talons and fangs and spurs . 
Against that onslaught the dwarfs could not stand . 
They raced for the shells I heard Lugur shouting , menacingly and then Lakla's voice , pealing like a golden bugle of wrath . 
Go , Lugur ! she cried . 
So ran the turbulent cur rent of my mind . 
A horny arm lifted me two enormous , oddly gentle saucer eyes were staring into mine my head rolled I caught a glimpse of the Golden Girl kneeling beside the O'Keefe . 
The noise in my head grew thunderous was carrying me away on its thunder swept me into soft , blind darkness . 
CHAPTER XXIV The Crimson Sea I WAS in the heart of a rose pearl , swinging , swinging no , I was in a rosy dawn cloud , pendulous in space . 
Just ahead walked Lakla in earnest talk with Rador , and content enough was I for a time to watch her . 
From her shoulders fell a loose , sleeve less garment of shimmering green belted with a high golden girdle skirt folds dropping barely below the knees . 
She had cast aside her buskins , too , and the slender , high arched feet were sandalled . 
Between the buckled edges of her kirtle I caught gleams of translucent ivory as exquisitely moulded , as delectably rounded , as those revealed so naively beneath the hem . 
Something was knocking at the doors of my consciousness some tragic thing . 
Upon my movement the monster bearing me halted , looked down inquiringly , uttered a deep , booming note that held the quality of interrogation . 
Drink this , she commanded , holding a small vial to my lips . 
Its contents were aromatic , unfamiliar but astonishingly effective , for as soon as they passed my lips I felt a surge of strength consciousness was restored . 
Is he dead ? Lakla shook her head her eyes were troubled . 
No , she said but he is like one dead and yet unlike Put me down , I demanded of my bearer . 
He tightened his hold round eyes upon the Golden Girl . 
She spoke in sonorous , reverberating monosyllables and I was set upon my feet I leaped to the side of the Irishman . 
A light flashed from the road . 
It struck his face and seemed to sink in , I said . 
I saw , answered Rador but what it was I know not and I thought I knew all the weapons of our rulers . 
He glanced at me curiously . 
Some talk there has been that the stranger who came with you , Double Tongue , was making new death tools for Lugur , he ended . 
Marakinoff ! The Russian at work already in this store house of devastating energies , fashioning the weapons for his plots ! The Apocalyptic vision swept back upon me He is not dead . 
He is not dead and the Three have wondrous healing . 
They can re store him if they will and they will , they WILL ! For a moment she was silent . 
Olaf's eyes were burn ing . 
But Lugur is mine to slay . 
That pity I had seen before in Lakla's eyes when she looked upon the Norseman banished the white wrath from them . 
She turned , half hurriedly , as though to escape his gaze . 
Walk with us , she said to me , unless you are still weak . 
I shook my head , gave a last look at O'Keefe there was nothing I could do I stepped beside her . 
She thrust a white arm into mine protectingly , the wonderfully moulded hand with its long , tapering fingers catching about my wrist my heart glowed toward her . 
Your medicine is potent , handmaiden , I answered . 
And the touch of your hand would give me strength enough , even had I not drunk it , I added in Larry's best manner . 
Her eyes danced , trouble flying . 
Now , that was well spoken for such a man of wisdom as Rador tells me you are , she laughed and a little pang shot through me . 
And I am glad you like my medicine as well as that you carry in the black box that you left be hind , she added swiftly . 
How know you of that , Lakla ? I gasped . 
Oft and oft I came to him there , and to you , while you lay sleeping . 
How call you HIM ? She paused . 
Larry ! she repeated it excellently . 
And you ? Goodwin , said Rador . 
I bowed quite as though I were being introduced to some charming young lady met in that old life now seemingly aeons removed . 
Oft and oft I came . 
Some times I thought you saw me . 
And HE did he not dream of me sometime ? she asked wistfully . 
I said , and watched for you . 
Then amaze ment grew vocal . 
But how came you ? I asked . 
By a strange road , she whispered , to see that all was well with HIM and to look into his heart for I feared Yolara and her beauty . 
But I saw that she was not in his heart . 
A blush burned over her , turning even the little bare breast rosy . 
It is a strange road , she went on hurriedly . 
We were passing over a smooth strand , hard packed as some beach of long thrust back ocean . 
It was like crushed garnets , each grain stained deep red , faintly sparkling . 
On each side were distances , the floor stretching away into them bare of vege tation stretching on and on into infinitudes of rosy mist , even as did the space above . 
Unmoved by wave or ripple , it was placid as some deep woodland pool when night rushes up over the world . 
It seemed molten or as though some hand great enough to rock earth had distilled here from conflagrations of au tumn sunsets their flaming essences . 
A fish broke through , large as a shark , blunt headed , flash ing bronze , ridged and mailed as though with serrate plates of armour . 
It leaped high , shaking from it a sparkling spray of rubies dropped and shot up a geyser of fiery gems . 
They drifted past like bubbles blown from froth of rainbows by pipes in mouths of Titans' young . 
Then from the base of one arose a tangle of shimmering strands , long , slender whiplashes that played about and sank slowly again beneath the crimson surface . 
Now Lakla cupped her mouth with pink palms and sent a clarion note ringing out . 
It sprang from the ruddy strand , leaped the crimson tide , and dropped three miles away upon a precip itous , jagged upthrust of rock frowning black from the lac quered depths . 
Lakla turned , looked at me anxiously , slipped a soft arm behind me , held me till the vertigo passed . 
I looked down toward us from the bow's end were leap ing swiftly another score of the frog men . 
Some bore lit ters , high , handled , not unlike palanquins Asgard ! Olaf stood beside me , eyes burning , pointing to the arch . 
Bifrost Bridge , sharp as sword edge , over which souls go to Valhalla . 
And SHE she is a Valkyr a sword maiden , Ja ! I gripped the Norseman's hand . 
It was hot , and a pang of remorse shot through me . 
Nor was it without further relief that I myself lay back on the soft velvety cushions of another . 
The cavalcade began to move . 
Presently I saw her reach up , slowly unwind the coronal of her tresses , shake them loose , and let them fall like a veil over her and him . 
Closer we came and closer , while I watched spellbound now we were at its head , and the litter bearers swept upon it . 
On and on we sped the high thrusting precipices upon which the bridge's far end rested , frowned close the enig matic , dully shining dome loomed ever greater . 
And this smaller arch leaped a pit , an abyss , of which the outer precipices were the rim holding back from the pit the red flood . 
Lakla raised her head swept back the silken tent of her hair and gazed at me with eyes misty from weeping . 
The webbed digits swept over O'Keefe's face , felt at his heart she shook her head and moved ahead of us up the passage . 
I jumped over to Larry , there had been no change in his condition still the terrifying limpness , the slow , infrequent pulsation . 
Rador and Olaf and the fever now seemed to be gone from him came and stood beside me , silent . 
I go to the Three , said Lakla . 
She passed through a curtaining then as swiftly as she had gone she returned through the hangings , tresses braided , a swath ing of golden gauze about her . 
Rador , she said , bear you Larry for into your heart the Silent Ones would look . 
And fear nothing , she added at the green dwarfs disconcerted , almost fearful start . 
Rador bowed , was thrust aside by Olaf . 
No , said the Norseman I will carry him . 
He lifted Larry like a child against his broad breast . 
The dwarf glanced quickly at Lakla she nodded . 
Come ! she commanded , and held aside the folds . 
Of that journey I have few memories . 
We paused before a slab of the same crimson stone as that the green dwarf had called the portal , and upon its polished surface weaved the same unnameable symbols . 
The Golden Girl pressed upon its side it slipped softly back a torrent of opalescence gushed out of the opening and as one in a dream I entered . 
We were , I knew , just under the dome but for the mo ment , caught in the flood of radiance , I could see nothing . 
It was like being held within a fire opal so brilliant , so flash ing , was it . 
I felt Lakla's touch turned . 
A hundred paces away was a dais , its rim raised a yard above the floor . 
Over it , from it , down upon me , gazed three faces two clearly male , one a woman's . 
What what were these beings ? I forced myself to look again and from their gaze streamed a current of reassurance , of good will nay , of intense spiritual strength . 
Olaf drew a deep breath , gazed steadily too , the hardness , the despair wiped from his face . 
Now Lakla drew closer to the dais the three pairs of eyes searched hers , the woman's with an ineffable tenderness some message seemed to pass between the Three and the Golden Girl . 
She bowed low , turned to the Norseman . 
Place Larry there , she said softly there at the feet of the Silent Ones . 
She pointed into the radiant mist Olaf started , hesitated , stared from Lakla to the Three , searched for a moment their eyes and something like a smile drifted through them . 
He stepped forward , lifted O'Keefe , set him squarely within the covering light . 
The mist fell the eyes gleamed out again , inscrutable . 
He saw Lakla , sprang to her , gripped her in his arms . 
Mavourneen ! She slipped from his embrace , blushing , glancing at the Three shyly , half fear fully . 
And again I saw the tenderness creep into the inky , flame shot orbs of the woman being and a tenderness in the others too as though they regarded some well beloved child . 
You lay in the arms of Death , Larry , she said . 
And the Silent Ones drew you from him . 
Then for the first time I saw real awe mount into his face . 
Another moment he stared and dropped upon one knee and bowed his head before them as would a worshipper be fore the shrine of his saint . 
And I am not ashamed to tell it I joined him and with us knelt Lakla and Olaf and Rador . 
The mist of fiery opal swirled up about the Three hid them . 
And with a long , deep , joyous sigh Lakla took Larry's hand , drew him to his feet , and silently we followed them out of that hall of wonder . 
Now , lying gazing upward at the high vaulted ceiling , I heard Larry's voice They look like birds . 
Wake up ! shouted Larry . 
Doc , he said , very seriously , after this , I know who the Three are ! Yes ? I queried , with studied sarcasm . 
Yes ! Ye ye He paused under the menace of my look , grinned . 
Yes , I know , he con tinued . 
Have you any idea how they got here ? I asked , not unreasonably . 
I haven't thought about that , he replied somewhat test ily . 
But at once , me excellent man o' wisdom , a number occur to me . 
And do any of those reasons appeal to ye ? I shook my head . 
Well , what do you think ? he asked wearily . 
I think , I said cautiously , that we face an evolution of highly intelligent beings from ancestral sources radically re moved from those through which mankind ascended . 
These half human , highly developed batrachians they call the Akka prove that evolution in these caverned spaces has certainly pursued one different path than on earth . 
The Englishman , Wells , wrote an imaginative and very entertaining book con cerning an invasion of earth by Martians , and he made his Martians enormously specialized cuttlefish . 
There was noth ing inherently improbable in Wells' choice . 
I think , I said , even more cautiously , that the race to which the Three belong never appeared on earth's surface that their development took place here , unhindered through aeons . 
And if this be true , the structure of their brains , and therefore all their reactions , must be different from ours . 
That last sort of knocks your argument , Doc , he said . 
No , he went on . 
I hold to my own idea . 
They're of the Old People . 
The little leprechaun knew his way here , an' I'll bet it was they who sent the word . 
An' if the O'Keefe ban shee comes here which save the mark ! I'll bet she'll drop in on the Silent Ones for a social visit before she an' her clan get busy . 
Well , it'll make her feel more at home , the good old body . 
No , Doc , no , he concluded , I'm right it all fits in too well to be wrong . 
I made a last despairing attempt . 
Is there anything anywhere in Ireland that would indicate that the Tuatha De ever looked like the Three ? I asked and again I had spoken most unfortunately . 
Is there ? he shouted . 
Is there ? By the kilt of Cormack MacCormack , I'm glad ye reminded me . 
It was worryin' me a little meself . 
You have rested well , he smiled , I can see . 
The hand maiden bade me call you . 
You are to eat with her in her garden . 
A table , as of milky jade , was spread at one corner , but the Golden Girl was not there . 
A little path ran on and up , hemmed in by the mass of verdure . 
I looked at it longingly Rador saw the glance , interpreted it , and led me up the stepped sharp slope into a rock embrasure . 
Here I was above the foliage , and everywhere the view was clear . 
Below me stretched the incredible bridge , with the frog people hurrying back and forth upon it . 
A pinnacle at my side hid the abyss . 
My eyes followed the cavern ledge . 
Above it the rock rose bare , but at the ends of the semi circular strand a luxuriant vegetation began , stretching from the crimson shores back into far distances . 
Of browns and reds and yellows , like an autumn forest , was the foliage , with here and there patches of dark green , as of conifers . 
Five miles or more , on each side , the forests swept , and then were lost to sight in the haze . 
I turned and faced an immensity of crimson waters , un broken , a true sea , if ever there was one . 
A breeze blew the first real wind I had encountered in the hidden places under it the surface , that had been as molten lacquer , rippled and dimpled . 
Little waves broke with a spray of rose pearls and rubies . 
The giant Medusae drifted stately , luminous kaleidoscopic elfin moons . 
Far down , peeping around a jutting tower of the cliff , I saw dipping with the motion of the waves a floating garden . 
The flowers , too , were luminous indeed sparkling gleaming brilliants of scarlet and vermilions lighter than the flood on which they lay , mauves and odd shades of reddish blue . 
They gleamed and shone like a little lake of jewels . 
Rador broke in upon my musings . 
Lakla comes ! Let us go down . 
It was a shy Lakla who came slowly around the end of the path and , blushing furiously , held her hands out to Larry . 
She blushed deeper , holding out the tapering fingers then pressed them to her own heart . 
I like the touch of your lips , Larry , she whispered . 
They warm me here she pressed her heart again and they send little sparkles of light through me . 
Her brows tilted perplexedly , accenting the nuance of diablerie , deli cate and fascinating , that they cast upon the flower face . 
Do you ? whispered the O'Keefe fervently . 
Do you , Lakla ? He bent toward her . 
She caught the amused glance of Rador drew herself aside half haughtily . 
As he faced us I saw that a transformation had been wrought in him . 
Gone was the pitiful seeking , and gone too the just as pitiful hope . 
The set face softened as he looked at the Golden Girl and bowed low to her . 
He thrust a hand to O'Keefe and to me . 
There is to be battle , he said . 
I go with Rador to call the armies of these frog people . 
As for me Lakla has spoken . 
There is no hope for for mine Helma in life , but there is hope that we destroy the Shining Devil and give mine Helma peace . 
And with that I am well content , ja ! Well content ! He gripped our hands again . 
We will fight ! he muttered . 
Ja ! And I will have vengeance ! The sternness returned and with a salute Rador and he were gone . 
Two great tears rolled from the golden eyes of Lakla . 
Not even the Silent Ones can heal those the Shining One has taken , she said . 
He asked me and it was better that I tell him . 
It is part of the Three's PUNISHMENT but of that you will soon learn , she went on hurriedly . 
Ask me no questions now of the Silent Ones . 
I thought it better for Olaf to go with Rador , to busy himself , to give his mind other than sorrow upon which to feed . 
Up the path came five of the frog women , bearing plat ters and ewers . 
Their bracelets and anklets of jewels were tinkling their middles covered with short kirtles of woven cloth studded with the sparkling ornaments . 
And here let me say that if I have given the impression that the Akka are simply magnified frogs , I regret it . 
Frog like they are , and hence my phrase for them but as unlike the frog , as we know it , as man is unlike the chimpanzee . 
The great staring eyes , the shape of the muzzle were frog like , but the highly developed brain had set upon the head and shape of it vital differences . 
The forehead , for instance , was not low , flat , and retreating its frontal arch was well defined . 
The torso was upright the legs a little bent , giving them their crouching gait but I wander from my subject . 
The female produces progeny at five year intervals , never more than two at a time . 
They are monogamous , like certain of our own Ranidae . 
and Lilian V. Sampson's Unusual Modes of Breeding among Anura , Amer . 
W. T. G. They set their burdens down . 
Larry looked at them with interest . 
You surely have those things well trained , Lakla , he said . 
Things ! The handmaiden arose , eyes flashing with indig nation . 
You call my Akka things ! Well , said Larry , a bit taken aback , what do you call them ? My Akka are a PEOPLE , she retorted . 
As much a people as your race or mine . 
They are good and loyal , and they have speech and arts , and they slay not , save for food or to pro tect themselves . 
And I think them beautiful , Larry , BEAUTIFUL ! She stamped her foot . 
And you call them THINGS ! Beautiful ! These ? Yet , after all , they were , in their gro tesque fashion . 
And to Lakla , surrounded by them , from babyhood , they were not strange , at all . 
Why shouldn't she think them beautiful ? The same thought must have struck O'Keefe , for he flushed guiltily . 
I think them beautiful , too , Lakla , he said remorsefully . 
It's my not knowing your tongue too well that traps me . 
TRULY , I think them beautiful I'd tell them so , if I knew their talk . 
Lakla dimpled , laughed spoke to the attendants in that strange speech that was unquestionably a language they bridled , looked at O'Keefe with fantastic coquetry , cracked and boomed softly among themselves . 
They say they like YOU better than the men of Muria , laughed Lakla . 
Did I ever think I'd be swapping compliments with lady frogs ! he murmured to me . 
Buck up , Larry keep your eyes on the captive Irish princess ! he muttered to himself . 
Rador goes to meet one of the ladala who is slipping through with news , said the Golden Girl as we addressed ourselves to the food . 
Then , with Nak , he and Olaf go to muster the Akka for there will be battle , and we must pre pare . 
Nak , she added , is he who went before me when you were dancing with Yolara , Larry . 
She stole a swift , mis chievous glance at him . 
He is headman of all the Akka . 
Just what forces can we muster against them when they come , darlin' ? said Larry . 
Darlin' ? the Golden Girl had caught the caress of the word what's that ? It's a little word that means Lakla , he answered . 
It does that is , when I say it when you say it , then it means Larry . 
I like that word , mused Lakla . 
You can even say Larry darlin' ! suggested O'Keefe . 
Larry darlin' ! said Lakla . 
When they come we shall have first of all my Akka Can they fight , mavourneen ? interrupted Larry . 
Can they fight ! My Akka ! Again her eyes flashed . 
No she shook her head none of their weapons have we here , although it was it was the Ancient Ones who shaped them . 
But the Three are of the Ancient Ones ? I cried . 
Surely they can tell No , she said slowly . 
No there is something you must know and soon and then the Silent Ones say you will un derstand . 
You , especially , Goodwin , who worship wisdom . 
Again the indecision that had been in her eyes when Yolara had launched her defiance crept back . 
The Shining One is strong and he has his slaves ! Well , we'd better get busy good and quick ! the O'Keefe's voice rang . 
But Lakla , for some reason of her own , would pursue the matter no further . 
The trouble fled from her eyes they danced . 
Larry darlin' ? she murmured . 
I like the touch of your lips You do ? he whispered , all thought flying of anything but the beautiful , provocative face so close to his . 
Then , acushla , you're goin' to get acquainted with 'em ! Turn your head , Doc ! he said . 
There was quite a long silence , broken by an interested , soft outburst of gentle boomings from the serving frog maids . 
I stole a glance behind me . 
Then Lakla raised her hands , pressed down Larry's head , kissed him between the eyes , drew herself with a trembling little laugh from his embrace . 
The future Mrs. Larry O'Keefe , Goodwin , said Larry to me a little unsteadily . 
I took their hands and Lakla kissed me ! She turned to the booming smiling frog maids gave them some command , for they filed away down the path . 
Suddenly I felt , well , a little superfluous . 
If you don't mind , I said , I think I'll go up the path there again and look about . 
But they were so engrossed with each other that they did not even hear me so I walked away , up to the embrasure where Rador had taken me . 
The movement of the batra chians over the bridge had ceased . 
Dimly at the far end I could see the cluster of the garrison . 
My thoughts flew back to Lakla and to Larry . 
Surely they bad been long enough by themselves . 
I went down the path . 
It's a green land , mavourneen . 
Those are lovely flowers , Lakla , I said . 
I have never seen anything like them in the place from whence we come . 
She followed my pointing finger laughed . 
Come , she said , let me show you them . 
She ran down an intersecting way , we following came out of it upon a little ledge close to the brink , three feet or more I suppose about it . 
The Golden Girl's voice rang out in a high pitched , tremulous , throbbing call . 
Above them hovered a little radiant mist . 
The closest resemblances to them in outer water forms are among the Gymnoblastic Hydroids , notably Clavetella prolifera , a most interesting ambulatory form of six tentacles . 
Almost every bather in Southern waters , Northern too , knows the pain that contact with certain jelly fish produces . 
The Yekta's development was prodigious and , to us , monstrous . 
Both ether and nitrous oxide gas produce in the majority this sensation of time extension , without of course the pain symptom . 
What Lakla called the Yekta kiss is I imagine about as close to the orthodox idea of Hell as can be conceived . 
The secret of her control over them I had no opportunity of learning in the rush of events that followed . 
Knowledge of the appalling effects of their touch came , she told me , from those few who had been kissed so lightly that they recovered . 
Certainly nothing , not even the Shining One , was dreaded by the Murians as these were W. T. G. Put it down , Lakla , the distress in O'Keefe's voice was deep . 
Lakla laughed mischievously , caught the real fear for her in his eyes opened her hand , gave another faint call and back it flew to its fellows . 
Why , it wouldn't hurt me , Larry ! she expostulated . 
They know me ! Put it down ! he repeated hoarsely . 
She sighed , gave another sweet , prolonged call . 
An' , by the faith and the honour of the O'Keefes , an' by my dead mother's soul may God do with me as I do by her ! he whispered fervently . 
He relapsed into open eyed dreaming . 
I walked about the room , examining it the first oppor tunity I had gained to inspect carefully any of the rooms in the abode of the Three . 
It was octagonal , carpeted with the thick rugs that seemed almost as though woven of soft min eral wool , faintly shimmering , palest blue . 
Set within each of the eight sides , above the balcony , were colossal slabs of lapis lazuli , inset with graceful but unplaceable designs in scarlet and sapphire blue . 
There was the great divan on which mused Larry two smaller ones , half a dozen low seats and chairs carved appar ently of ivory and of dull soft gold . 
There was no dust nowhere in these caverned spaces had I found this constant companion of ours in the world over head . 
My eyes caught a sparkle from a corner . 
Pursuing it I found upon one of the low seats a flat , clear crystal oval , remarkably like a lens . 
I took it and stepped up on the balcony . 
Standing on tiptoe I found I commanded from the bottom of a window slit a view of the bridge approach . 
Scanning it I could see no trace of the garrison there , nor of the green spear flashes . 
Nothing ! But now against the aperture I saw a score or more of tiny , dancing sparks . 
An optical illu sion , I thought , and turned the crystal in another direction . 
There were no sparklings there . 
I turned it back again and there they were . 
From a point not a foot over the great couch , as though oozing from the air itself , blood began to drop , faster and ever faster , pouring out of nothingness . 
His hands flashed out armless they wavered , appearing , disappearing swiftly tearing something from him . 
And ever that red stream trickled out of vacancy and spread over the couch , dripping to the floor . 
The floating , beautiful head , crowned high with corn silk hair , darted toward the Irishman . 
He took a swift step back ward . 
The eyes of the priestess deepened toward purple sparkled with malice . 
So , Larree you thought you could go from me so easily ! She laughed softly . 
In my hidden hand I hold the Keth cone , she murmured . 
Before you can raise the death tube I can smite you and will . 
What do you want with me , Yolara ? he asked hoarsely . 
Nay , came the mocking voice . 
Not Yolara to you , Larree call me by those sweet names you taught me Honey of the Wild Bee e s , Net of Hearts Again her laughter tinkled . 
What do you want with me ? his voice was strained , the lips rigid . 
Ah , you are afraid , Larree . 
There was diabolic jubila tion in the words . 
We came to the cavern's end and , there were her Akka . 
And the Akka can see us as shadows . 
But it was my desire to sur prise you with my coming , Larree , the voice was silken . 
And I feared that they would hasten to be first to bring you that message to delight in your joy . 
And so , Larree , I loosed the Keth upon them and gave them peace and rest within the nothingness . 
And the portal below was open almost in welcome ! Once more the malignant , silver pealing of her laughter . 
What do you want with me ? There was wrath in his eyes , and plainly he strove for control . 
Want ! the silver voice hissed , grew calm . 
And weird , weird beyond all telling was that exquisite head and bust floating there in air and beautiful , sinisterly beautiful beyond all telling , too . 
And if I go with you ? He said it quietly . 
You will swear that , Yolara swear to go without harming the handmaiden ? he asked eagerly . 
The little devils danced in her eyes . 
I wrenched my face from the smothering con tact . 
Don't trust her , Larry ! I cried and again the grip choked me . 
Is that devil in front of you or behind you , old man ? he asked quietly , eyes never leaving the priestess . 
If he's in front I'll take a chance and wing him and then you scoot and warn Lakla . 
But I could not answer nor , remembering Yolara's threat , would I , had I been able . 
Decide quickly ! There was cold threat in her voice . 
The curtains toward which O'Keefe had slowly , step by step , drawn close , opened . 
They framed the handmaiden ! The face of Yolara changed to that gorgon mask that had transformed it once before at sight of the Golden Girl . 
In her blind rage she forgot to cast the occulting veil . 
Her hand darted like a snake out of the folds poising itself with the little silver cone aimed at Lakla . 
But before it was wholly poised , before the priestess could loose its force , the handmaiden was upon her . 
Now Yolara was down , Lakla meshed in her writhings and fighting like some wild mother whose babes are serpent menaced . 
The sword club struck and on the floor lay the half body of a dwarf , writhing with vanishments and reappearings of legs and arms . 
Beside him was the shattered tripod from which Larry had wrenched his weapon . 
I jumped to Larry's side , guarding his back , whirling it like a staff felt it crunch once twice through unseen bone and muscle . 
At the door was a booming . 
Into the chamber rushed a dozen of the frog men . 
Now here and there about the blue rugs great stains of blood appeared heads of dwarfs , torn arms and gashed bodies , half occulted , half revealed . 
And at last the priestess lay silent , vanquished , white body gleaming with that uncanny fragmentariness from her torn robes . 
Then O'Keefe reached down , drew Lakla from her . 
Shakily , Yolara rose to her feet . 
The handmaiden , face still blazing with wrath , stepped before her with difficulty she steadied her voice . 
Because he is pledged to me , replied Yolara , all the devils that were hers in her face . 
Because he wooed me ! Because he is mine ! That is a lie ! The handmaiden's voice shook with rage . 
It is a lie ! But here and now he shall choose , Yolara . 
And now , Larry , choose ! Swiftly she stepped beside the priestess swiftly wrenched the last shreds of the hiding robes from her . 
Lakla , the O'Keefe's voice was subdued , hurt , there IS no choice . 
I love you and only you and have from the moment I saw you . 
God , Goodwin , I feel like an utter cad , he flashed at me . 
There is no choice , Lakla , he ended , eyes steady upon hers . 
The priestess's face grew deadlier still . 
What will you do with me ? she asked . 
Keep you , I said , as hostage . 
O'Keefe was silent the Golden Girl shook her head . 
Well would I like to , her face grew dreaming but the Silent Ones say NO they bid me let you go , Yolara The Silent Ones , the priestess laughed . 
YOU , Lakla ! You fear , perhaps , to let me tarry here too close ! Storm gathered again in the handmaiden's eyes she forced it back . 
No , she answered , the Silent Ones so command and for their own purposes . 
Yet do I think , Yolara , that you will have little time to feed your wickedness tell that to Lugur and to your Shining One ! she added slowly . 
Mockery and disbelief rode high in the priestess's pose . 
Am I to return alone like this ? she asked . 
Nay , Yolara , nay you shall be accompanied , said Lakla and by those who will guard and WATCH you well . 
They are here even now . 
The hangings parted , and into the chamber came Olaf and Rador . 
The priestess met the fierce hatred and contempt in the eyes of the Norseman and for the first time lost her bravado . 
Let not HIM go with me , she gasped her eyes searched the floor frantically . 
He goes with you , said Lakla , and threw about Yolara a swathing that covered the exquisite , alluring body . 
Then Lakla came to the unhappy O'Keefe , rested her hands on his shoulders , looked deep into his eyes . 
DID you woo her , even as she said ? she asked . 
I did not , he said . 
I was pleasant to her , of course , because I thought it would bring me quicker to you , darlin' . 
She looked at him doubtfully then I think you must have been VERY pleasant ! was all she said and leaning , kissed him forgivingly straight on the lips . 
He stumbled , feet vanishing reached down and picked up something that in the grasping turned his hand to air . 
One of the invisible cloaks , he said to me . 
There must be quite a lot of them about I guess Yolara brought her full staff of murderers . 
They're a bit shopworn , probably but we're considerably better off with 'em in our hands than in hers . 
Lakla shivered gave a command . 
The frog men moved about peering here and there lifting unseen folds revealing in stark rigidity torn form after form of the priestess's men . 
Lakla had been right her Akka were thorough fighters ! She called , and to her came the frog woman who was her attendant . 
To her the handmaiden spoke , pointing to the batrachians who stood , paws and forearms melted beneath the robes they had gathered . 
But look as closely as we might , search in every nook and corner as we did , we could not find it . 
Perhaps the priestess had found it , retrieved it swiftly without our seeing . 
Whatever was true the cone was gone . 
I can only say that the thing occurred that it took place in precisely the manner I am about to narrate , and that I experienced it . 
Yet , in justice to myself , I must open up some paths of preliminary approach toward the heart of the perplexity . 
A. S. Eddington , which I had the pleasure of hearing him de liver before the Royal Institution . 
Reprinted in full in Nature , in which those sufficiently interested may peruse it . 
Even if it BE different , it is governed by LAW . 
The truly impossible is that which is out side law , and as nothing CAN be outside law , the impossible CANNOT exist . 
The crux of the matter then becomes our determination whether what we think is impossible may or may not be possible under laws still beyond our knowledge . 
I hope that you will pardon me for this somewhat aca demic digression , but I felt it was necessary , and it has , at least , put me more at ease . 
We had watched , Larry and I , the frog men throw the bodies of Yolara's assassins into the crimson waters . 
As vul tures swoop down upon the dying , there came sailing swiftly to where the dead men floated , dozens of the luminous globes . 
Their slender , varicoloured tentacles whipped out the giant iridescent bubbles CLIMBED over the cadavers . 
Sick , I turned away O'Keefe as pale as I passed back into the corridor that had opened on the ledge from which we had watched met Lakla hurrying toward us . 
Before she could speak there throbbed faintly about us a vast sighing . 
It grew into a murmur , a whispering , shook us then pass ing like a presence , died away in far distance . 
The Portal has opened , said the handmaiden . 
A fainter sighing , like an echo of the other , mourned about us . 
Yolara is gone , she said , the Portal is closed . 
Come ! said Lakla , and we walked on down and down through hall after hall , flight upon flight of stairways . 
Deep , deep indeed , we must be beneath the domed castle Lakla paused before a curved , smooth breast of the crimson stone rounding gently into the passage . 
She pressed its side it revolved we entered it closed behind us . 
The room , the hollow in which we stood was faceted like a diamond and like a cut brilliant its sides glistened though dully . 
Its shape was a deep oval , and our path dropped down to a circular polished base , roughly two yards in diameter . 
It was as though we were within a diamond egg whose graven angles bad been turned INWARD . 
From the edge of the dial jutted a little shelf of crystal , a keyboard , in which were cut eight small cups . 
Within these cups the handmaiden placed her tapering fingers . 
She gazed down upon the disk pressed a digit and the screen behind us slipped noiselessly into another angle . 
Put your arm around my waist , Larry , darlin' , and stand close , she murmured . 
You , Goodwin , place your arm over my shoulder . 
It wrapped itself about us with unearthly mighty arms . 
And brilliant , ever more brilliant , streamed the radiance through us . 
And always the steady hurling forward appallingly mechanical . 
Our flight checked we seemed to hover within , then to sway onward slowly , cautiously . 
A mist danced ahead of me a mist that grew steadily thinner . 
We stopped , wavered the mist cleared . 
Steady , Goodwin ! And see ! The sparkling haze cleared . 
Enormous reaches stretched before me . 
First only a luminous cloud , then a whirling pillar of splendours through the lane came the Shining One . 
And when it had passed they closed behind it , staring up at us once more . 
The Dweller paused beneath us . 
On his face was the Dweller's dreadful stamp the lips were bloodless the eyes were wide , lucent , something like pale , phosphorescence gleaming within them and soul less . 
He stared straight up at me , unwinking , unrecognizing . 
Pressing against his side was a woman , young and gentle , and lovely lovely even through the mask that lay upon her face . 
And her wide eyes , like Throckmartin's , glowed with the lurking , unholy fires . 
She pressed against him closely though the hordes kept up the faint churning , these two kept ever together , as though bound by unseen fetters . 
And I knew the girl for Edith , his wife , who in vain effort to save him had cast herself into the Dweller's embrace ! Throckmartin ! I cried . 
Throckmartin ! I'm here ! Did he hear ? I know now , of course , he could not . 
But then I waited hope striving to break through the nightmare hands that gripped my heart . 
Their wide eyes never left me . 
There was another move ment about them , others pushed past them they drifted back , swaying , eddying and still staring were lost in the awful throng . 
Vainly I strained my gaze to find them again , to force some sign of recognition , some awakening of the clean life we know . 
Try as I would I could not see them nor Stanton and the northern woman named Thora who had been the first of that tragic party to be taken by the Dweller . 
Throckmartin ! I cried again , despairingly . 
I felt Lakla's light touch . 
Steady , she commanded , pitifully . 
Steady over it hung the seven little moons of amethyst , of saffron , of emerald and azure and silver , of rose of life and moon white . 
Subtly , undefinably it was of our world and of one not ours . 
I gripped myself , my brain steadied , I looked again . 
So the Dweller stood and gazed . 
Gasping , shaken , weak , I stood within the faceted oval chamber arm still about the handmaiden's white shoulder Larry's hand still clutching her girdle . 
The roaring , impalpable gale from the cosmos was retreat ing to the outposts of space was still the intense , streaming , flooding radiance lessened died . 
Now have you beheld , said Lakla , and well you trod the road . 
And now shall you hear , even as the Silent Ones have commanded , what the Shining One is and how it came to be . 
The steps flashed back the doorway into the chamber opened . 
Larry as silent as I we followed her through it . 
CHAPTER XXIX The Shaping of the Shining One WE REACHED what I knew to be Lakla's own boudoir , if I may so call it . 
One of the window slits dropped almost to the floor , and at its base was a wide , comfortably cushioned seat commanding a view of the bridge and of the cavern ledge . 
To this the handmaiden beckoned us sank upon it , drew Larry down beside her and motioned me to sit close to him . 
Not like us , and never like us , she spoke low , wonder ingly , the Silent Ones say were they . 
Nor were those from which they sprang like those from which we have come . 
Ancient , ancient beyond thought are the Taithu , the race of the Silent Ones . 
I nodded for what she had related so fragmentarily was in reality an excellent approach to the Chamberlain Moulton theory of a coalescing nebula contracting into the sun and its planets . 
Astonishing was the recognition of this theory . 
And they say it was a place of light and that strength came to them from earth heart strength greater than you and those from which you sprang ever de rived from sun . 
At last , ancient , ancient beyond all thought , they say again , was this time they began to know , to to realize themselves . 
And wisdom came ever more swiftly . 
Up from their cradle , because they did not wish to dwell longer with those others they came and found this place . 
But in none of these , in NONE , was there realization of themselves , say the Three naught but hunger driving , al ways driving them to still its crying . 
They turned wholly to the seeking of wisdom and after other time on time they at tained that which killed even the faintest shadow of the half thought . 
They set radiant lamps within the stones , and of black light they wove the sheltering shadows and the shadows that slay . 
Arose from this people those Three the Silent Ones . 
They led them all in wisdom so that in the Three grew pride . 
Then there came the ancestors of the Akka not as they are now , and glowing but faintly within them the spark of self realization . 
And the Taithu seeing this spark did not slay them . 
But they took the ancient , long untrodden paths and looked forth once more upon earth face . 
Now on the land were vast forests and a chaos of green life . 
On the shores things scaled and fanged , fought and devoured each other , and in the green life moved bodies great and small that slew and ran from those that would slay . 
They searched for the passage through which the Akka had come and closed it . 
The Three are speaking , she murmured . 
Yea , the golden voice was vibrant . 
Upon that universal matrix of matter , that mother of all things that you name the ether , we laboured . 
Think not that her won drous fertility is limited by what ye see on earth or what has been on earth from its beginning . 
Infinite , infinite are the forms the mother bears and countless are the energies that are part of her . 
Watching we learned , and learning we formed that ye term the Dweller , which those without name the Shining One . 
Within the Universal Mother we shaped it , to be a voice to tell us her secrets , a lamp to go before us lighting the mysteries . 
I listened while the Three spoke to you , she said . 
Now the shaping of the Shining One had been a long , long travail and time had flown over the outer world laya upon laya . 
Yet as the tides of consciousness flowed through it they left behind shadowings and echoes of their burdens and the Shining One grew stronger , always stronger of ITSELF WITHIN ITSELF . 
Not ignorant were the Taithu of the work of the Three . 
First there were a few , then more and more who coveted the Shining One and who would have had the Three share with them the knowledge it drew in for them . 
But the Silent Ones in their pride , would not . 
Now the Shining One has its limitations , even as we . 
Over water it can pass , through air and through fire but pass it cannot , through rock or metal . 
So it sent a message how I know not to the Taithu who desired it , whispering to them the secret of the Portal . 
There were many , many , who would have none of it nor of its power . 
So were the Taithu split and to this place where there had been none , came hatred , fear and suspicion . 
Those who pursued the ancient ways went to the Three and pleaded with them to destroy their work and they would not , for still they loved it . 
It whispered to the Taithu to take again the paths and look out upon the world . 
They called their lands Muria and they worshipped a god Thanaroa whom they imagined to be the maker of all things , dwelling far away . 
They worshipped as closer gods , not indifferent but to be prayed to and to be propitiated , the moon and the sun . 
Two kings they had , each with his coun cil and his court . 
One was high priest to the moon and the other high priest to the sun . 
Until at last from the black haired came no more of the light locked ones , but the ruddy ones , being stronger , still arose from them . 
CHAPTER XXX The Building of the Moon Pool SHE PAUSED , running her long fingers through her own bronze flecked ringlets . 
Above , far , far above the abode of the Shining One , she said , was their greatest temple , holding the shrines both of sun and moon . 
Out upon all this looked the Taithu who were now but the servants of the Shining One as it had been the messenger of the Three , she went on . 
Then it counselled them , instructing them what to do . 
They hollowed the chamber wherein first I saw you , cutting their way to it that path down which from it you sped . 
And all this the Taithu did , working so secretly that neither those of their race whose faces were set against the Shining One nor the busy men above know aught of it . 
When it was done they moved up the path , clustering within the Moon Pool Chamber . 
Now was the moon king filled with fear when he looked upon the Taithu , shrouded with protecting mists of light in Moon Pool Chamber , and heard their words . 
Yet , being crafty , he thought of the power that would be his if he heeded and how quickly the strength of the sun king would dwindle . 
So he and his made a pact with the Shining One's messengers . 
And still holding them it danced above the Moon Pool and sank ! Now must I be brief . 
Lat after lat the Shining One went forth , returning with its sacrifices . 
And stronger after each it grew and gayer and more cruel . 
Ever when it passed with its prey toward the pool , the Taithu who watched felt a swift , strong intoxication , a drunkenness of spirit , stream ing from it to them . 
And the Shining One forgot what it had promised them of dominion and in this new evil delight they too forgot . 
The outer land was torn with hatred and open strife . 
The moon king and his kind , through the guidance of the evil Taithu and the favour of the Shining One , had become powerful and the sun king and his were darkened . 
And the moon priests preached that the child of the Three was the moon god itself come to dwell with them . 
Now vast tides arose and when they withdrew they took with them great portions of this country . 
And the land itself began to sink . 
Then said the moon king that the moon had called to ocean to destroy because wroth that another than he was worshipped . 
The people believed and there was slaughter . 
When it was over there was no more a sun king nor any of the ruddy haired folk slain were they , slain down to the babe at breast . 
But still the tides swept higher still dwindled the land ! As it shrank multitudes of the fleeing people were led through Moon Pool Chamber and carried here . 
They were what now are called the ladala , and they were given place and set to work and they thrived . 
Came many of the fair haired and they were given dwellings . 
And ever the Shining One danced more gaily out there within the black amphi theatre grew ever stronger and ever the hordes of its slaves behind the Veil increased . 
Nor did the Taithu who clung to the old ways check this they could not . 
By the sinking of the land above , their own spaces were imperilled . 
At last came a slow , vast flood . 
It rolled even to the bases of the walled islets of the city of the gods and within these now were all that were left of my people on earth face . 
This tide did not recede , she went on . 
And after a time the remnant , the moon king leading them , joined those who had already fled below . 
The rocks became still , the quakings ceased , and now those Ancient Ones who had been labouring could take breath . 
And anger grew within them as they looked upon the work of their evil kin . 
Again they sought the Three and the Three now knew what they had done and their pride was humbled . 
Armed with the wisdom of the Three they went forth but now the Shining One was strong indeed . 
They could not slay it ! Nay , it knew and was prepared they could not even pass beyond its Veil nor seal its abode . 
Ah , strong , strong , mighty of will , full of craft and cunning had the Shining One be come . 
So they turned upon their kind who had gone astray and made them perish , to the last . 
And while this was happening black haired and fair haired ran and hid and were but shaking vessels of terror . 
The Ancient Ones took counsel . 
This was their decision that they would go from the gardens before the Silver Waters leaving , since they could not kill it , the Shining One with its worshippers . 
They sealed the mouth of the passage that leads to the Moon Pool Chamber and they changed the face of the cliff so that none might tell where it had been . 
And they destroyed all the ways save that which we three trod to the Dweller's abode . 
For the last time they went to the Three to pass sen tence upon them . 
This was the doom they put upon the Three for the wickedness that had sprung from their pride , and they strengthened it with their arts that it might not be broken . 
Since then time upon time had passed , she went on , unheeding . 
The people called this place Muria after their sunken land and soon they forgot where had been the passage the Taithu had sealed . 
The moon king became the Voice of the Dweller and always with the Voice is a woman of the moon king's kin who is its priestess . 
And many have been the journeys upward of the Shining One , through the Moon Pool returning with still others in its coils . 
And now again has it grown restless , longing for the wider spaces . 
It has spoken to Yolara and to Lugur even as it did to the dead Taithu , promising them dominion . 
And it has grown stronger , drawing to itself power to go far on the moon stream where it will . 
Thus was it able to seize your friend , Goodwin , and Olaf's wife and babe and many more . 
Breathlessly I had listened to the stupendous epic of a long lost world . 
Lakla , I said , the friend who drew me here and those he loved who went before him can we not save them ? The Three say no , Goodwin . 
There was again in her eyes the pity with which she had looked upon Olaf . 
The Shining One FEEDS upon the flame of life itself , setting in its place its own fires and its own will . 
Its slaves are only shells through which it gleams . 
Death , say the Three , is the best that can come to them yet will that be a boon great in deed . 
But they have souls , mavourneen , Larry said to her . 
And they're alive still in a way . 
Anyhow , their souls have not gone from them . 
It was days after his wife was taken , that the Dweller seized Throckmartin , I cried . 
Aren't there ever any red headed boys and if they are what becomes of them ? That , Larry , I cannot answer , she said , very frankly . 
There was a pact of some kind how made or by whom I know not . 
But for long the Murians feared the return of the Taithu and greatly they feared the Three . 
Even the Shining One feared those who had created it for a time and not even now is it eager to face them THAT I know . 
Nor are Yolara and Lugur so SURE . 
It may be that the Three com manded it but how or why I know not . 
I only know that it is true for here am I and from where else would I have come ? From Ireland , said Larry O'Keefe , promptly . 
And that's where you're going . 
It's no place for ye , and by the soul of St . 
And this , I must repeat , I have done throughout my narrative , wherever it has been necessary to record con versation with the Murians . 
Rising , I found I was painfully stiff as muscle bound as though I had actually trudged many miles . 
Larry , imitating me , gave an involuntary groan . 
Oh , but I'm sorry ! mourned Lakla , leaning over us . 
I had forgotten for those new to it the way is a weary one , indeed She ran to the doorway , whistled a clear high note down the passage . 
Through the hangings came two of the frog men . 
She spoke to them rapidly . 
They crouched toward us , what certainly was meant for an amiable grin wrinkling the gro tesque muzzles , baring the glistening rows of needle teeth . 
The Akka only held him tighter , booming comfortingly , peering down into his flushed face inquiringly . 
But , Larry darlin' ! Lakla's tones were well , mater nally surprised you're stiff and sore , and Kra can carry you quite easily . 
I WON'T be carried ! sputtered the O'Keefe . 
But , Larry dear ! Lakla was plainly distressed it will HURT you to walk and I don't WANT you to hurt , Larry darlin' ! Holy shade of St . 
Patrick ! moaned Larry again he made a mighty effort to tear himself from the frog man's grip gave up with a groan . 
Listen , alanna ! he said plaintively . 
When we get to Ireland , you and I , we won't have anybody to pick us up and carry us about every time we get a bit tired . 
I couldn't help laughing he glared at me . 
Bo oo ob ? exclaimed Lakla . 
But she spoke again to the Akka , who gently lowered the O'Keefe to the floor . 
I don't understand , she said hopelessly , if you want to walk , why , of course , you shall , Larry . 
Do you ? she asked . 
I do not , I said firmly . 
Well , then , murmured Lakla , go you , Larry and Good win , with Kra and Gulk , and let them minister to you . 
After , sleep a little for not soon will Rador and Olaf return . 
And let me feel your lips before you go , Larry darlin' ! She covered his eyes caressingly with her soft little palms pushed him away . 
They parted a hanging and dropped us softly down beside a little pool , sparkling with the clear water that had hereto fore been brought us in the wide basins . 
Then they began to undress us . 
And at this point the O'Keefe gave up . 
Whatever they're going to do we can't stop 'em , Doc ! he moaned . 
Anyway , I feel as though I've been pulled through a knot hole , and I don't care I don't care as the song says . 
When we were stripped we were lowered gently into the water . 
But not long did the Akka let us splash about the shallow basin . 
They lifted us out , and from jars began deftly to anoint and rub us with aromatic unguents . 
I think that in all the medley of grotesque , of tragic , of baffling , strange and perilous experiences in that under ground world none was more bizarre than this valeting . 
I began to laugh , Larry joined me , and then Kra and Gulk joined in our merriment with deep batrachian cachinnations and gruntings . 
Then , having finished apparelling us and still chuckling , the two touched our arms and led us out , into a room whose circular sides were ringed with soft divans . 
Still smiling , I sank at once into sleep . 
How long I slumbered I do not know . 
A low and thunder ous booming coming through the deep window slit , reverbe rated through the room and awakened me . 
Sounds as though the bass drums of every jazz band in New York were serenading us ! he observed . 
Simultaneously we sprang to the window peered through . 
We were a little above the level of the bridge , and its full length was plain before us . 
Thousands upon thousands of the Akka were crowding upon it , and far away other hordes filled like a glittering thicket both sides of the cavern ledge's crescent strand . 
On black scale and orange scale the crimson light fell , picking them off in little flickering points . 
Come on ! shouted Larry . 
Out of the open portal we ran over the World Heart Bridge and straight into the group . 
Oh ! cried Lakla , I didn't want you to wake up so soon , Larry darlin' ! See here , mavourneen ! Indignation thrilled in the Irish man's voice . 
I'm not going to be done up with baby rib bons and laid away in a cradle for safe keeping while a fight is on don't think it . 
Why didn't you call me ? You needed rest ! There was indomitable determination in the handmaiden's tones , the eternal maternal shining de fiant from her eyes . 
You were tired and you hurt ! You shouldn't have got up ! Needed the rest ! groaned Larry . 
Well , pulse of my heart , considering my delicate health and general fragility , would it hurt me , do you think , to be told what's going on ? he asked . 
Not at all , Larry ! answered the handmaiden serenely . 
Yolara went through the Portal . 
She was very , VERY angry She was all the devil's woman that she is ! rumbled Olaf . 
Rador met the messenger , went on the Golden Girl calmly . 
The ladala are ready to rise when Lugur and Yo lara lead their hosts against us . 
They will strike at those left behind . 
And in the meantime we shall have disposed my Akka to meet Yolara's men . 
And on that disposal we must all take counsel , you , Larry , and Rador , Olaf and Goodwin and Nak , the ruler of the Akka . 
Did the messenger give any idea when Yolara expects to make her little call ? asked Larry . 
They prepare , and we may expect them in She gave the equivalent of about thirty six hours of our time . 
I do not know , she said at last , frankly . 
You have heard their story . 
What they promise is that they will help . 
I do not know any more than do you , Goodwin ! I looked up at the dome beneath which I knew the dread Trinity stared forth even down upon us . 
And despite the awe , the assurance , I had felt when I stood before them I , too , doubted . 
YOU lead , Larry ? Why you are to stay with Goodwin and with me up there , there we can watch . 
Heart's beloved , O'Keefe was stern indeed . 
A thousand times I've looked Death straight in the face , peered into his eyes . 
Yes , and with ten thousand feet of space under me an' bursting shells tickling the ribs of the boat I was in . 
Nor did we stop until we came to the handmaiden's boudoir . 
Now , said Larry , two things I want to know . 
Against this force , it appeared , we could count , roughly , upon two hundred thousand of the Akka . 
And they're some fighters ! exclaimed Larry . 
Hell , with odds like that what're you worrying about ? It's over before it's begun . 
They have many things Uncle , interjected O'Keefe , one thing they have is your nerve . 
Why , we're more than two to one . 
She had seated herself close to the O'Keefe . 
Glancing at her I had seen steal over her face that brood ing , listening look that was hers whenever in that mysterious communion with the Three . 
It vanished swiftly she arose interrupted the Irishman without ceremony . 
Larry darlin' , said the handmaiden . 
The Silent Ones summon us ! When do we go ? I asked Larry's face grew bright with interest . 
The time is now , she said and hesitated . 
Larry dear , put your arms about me , she faltered , for there is some thing cold that catches at my heart and I am afraid . 
At his exclamation she gathered herself together gave a shaky little laugh . 
It's because I love you so that fear has power to plague me , she told him . 
Without another word he bent and kissed her in silence we passed on , his arm still about her girdled waist , golden head and black close together . 
Soon we stood before the crimson slab that was the door to the sanctuary of the Silent Ones . 
She poised uncertainly before it then with a defiant arching of the proud little head that sent all the bronze flecked curls flying , she pressed . 
It slipped aside and once more the opalescence gushed out , flooding all about us . 
The angled orbs centred upon the handmaiden soft ened as I had seen them do when first we had faced them . 
She smiled up seemed to listen . 
Come closer , she commanded , close to the feet of the Silent Ones . 
We moved , pausing at the very base of the dais . 
The sparkling mists thinned the great heads bent slightly over us through the veils I caught a glimpse of huge columnar necks , enormous shoulders covered with draperies as of pale blue fire . 
He has been told , she said , even as you commanded . 
Did I see a shadow of pain flit across the flickering eyes ? Wondering , I glanced at Lakla's face and there was a dawn of foreboding and bewilderment . 
For a little she held her listening attitude then the gaze of the Three left her focused upon the O'Keefe . 
Thus speak the Silent Ones through Lakla , their hand maiden , the golden voice was like low trumpet notes . 
At the threshold of doom is that world of yours above . 
Yea , even the doom , Goodwin , that ye dreamed and the shadow of which , looking into your mind they see , say the Three . 
For not upon earth and never upon earth can man find means to destroy the Shining One . 
She listened again and the foreboding deepened to an amazed fear . 
They say , the Silent Ones , she went on , that they know not whether even they have power to destroy . 
But within it is nothing of that greatest of all , that which can make powerless all the evil others , that which we call love , she ended softly . 
I'd like to be the one to put a little more FEAR in the beast , whispered Larry to me , grimly in our own English . 
This , they say , is what is to happen . 
First will come upon us Lugur and Yolara with all their host . 
Because of fear the Shining One will lurk behind within its lair for despite all , the Dweller DOES dread the Three , and only them . 
With this host the Voice and the priestess will strive to conquer . 
And if they do , then will they be strong enough , too , to destroy us all . 
For if they take the abode they banish from the Dweller all fear and sound the end of the Three . 
That's quite clear , murmured the O'Keefe in my ear . 
Weaken the morale then smash . 
I've seen it happen a dozen times in Europe . 
While they've got their nerve there's not a thing you can do get their nerve and not a thing can they do . 
And yet in both cases they're the same men . 
Lakla had been listening again . 
She turned , thrust out hands to Larry , a wild hope in her eyes and yet a hope half shamed . 
They say , she cried , that they give us choice . 
Remem bering that your world doom hangs in the balance , we have choice choice to stay and help fight Yolara's armies and they say they look not lightly on that help . 
He took her hands and looked long into the golden eyes glancing up I saw the Trinity were watching them in tently imperturbably . 
What do you say , mavourneen ? asked Larry gently . 
The handmaiden hung her head trembled . 
Your words shall be mine , O one I love , she whispered . 
So going or staying , I am beside you . 
And you , Goodwin ? he turned to me . 
I shrugged my shoulders after all I had no one to care . 
lt's up to you , Larry , I remarked , deliberately choosing his own phraseology . 
The O'Keefe straightened , squared his shoulders , gazed straight into the flame flickering eyes . 
We stick ! he said briefly . 
Shamefacedly I recall now that at the time I thought this colloquialism not only irreverent , but in somewhat bad taste . 
I am glad to say I was alone in that bit of weakness . 
The face that Lakla turned to Larry was radiant with love , and al though the shamed hope had vanished from the sweet eyes , they were shining with adoring pride . 
And the marble vis ages of the Three softened , and the little flames died down . 
Not that ! she cried out to the Three . 
Oh , not that ! Not Larry let me go even as you will but not him ! She threw up frantic hands to the woman being of the Trinity . 
Let ME bear it alone , she wailed . 
Alone mother ! Mother ! The Three bent their heads toward her , their faces pitiful , and from the eyes of the woman One rolled tears ! Larry leaped to Lakla's side . 
Sweetheart , what have they said to you ? He glared up at the Silent Ones , his hand twitching to ward the high hung pistol holster . 
The handmaiden swung to him threw white arms around his neck held her head upon his heart until her sobbing ceased . 
This they say the Silent Ones , she gasped and then all the courage of her came back . 
O heart of mine ! she whis pered to Larry , gazing deep into his eyes , his anxious face cupped between her white palms . 
She swayed he gripped her tightly . 
My eyes were wet dimly through them I saw his gaze on me . 
If the world IS at stake , he whispered , why of course there's only one thing to do . 
It was the man being at the right who spoke . 
We are sure , the tones rolled out like deepest organ notes , shaking , vibrating , assailing the ears as strangely as their appearance struck the eyes . 
Another moment the O'Keefe stared at them . 
Once more he squared his should ers lifted Lakla's chin and smiled into her eyes . 
We stick ! he said again , nodding to the Three . 
Over the visages of the Trinity fell benignity that was awesome the tiny flames in the jet orbs vanished , leaving them wells in which brimmed serenity , hope an extraor dinary joyfulness . 
The woman sat upright , tender gaze fixed upon the man and girl . 
Her great shoulders raised as though she had lifted her arms and had drawn to her those others . 
The three faces pressed together for a fleeting moment raised again . 
The woman bent forward and as she did so , Lakla and Larry , as though drawn by some outer force , were swept upon the dais . 
And withdrew ! The sparkling mists rolled up once more , hiding the Silent Ones . 
As silently as once before we had gone we passed out of the place of light , beyond the crimson stone , back to the handmaiden's chamber . 
Only once on our way did Larry speak . 
Cheer up , darlin' , he said to her , it's a long way yet before the finish . 
An' are you thinking that Lugur and Yo lara are going to pull this thing off ? Are you ? The handmaiden only looked at him , eyes love and sorrow filled . 
They are ! said Larry . 
But a few will not be denied recital . 
After all , Doc , be said to me , it's a beautiful scrap we're going to have . 
At the worst the worst is no more than the leprechaun warned about . 
I would have told the Taitha De about the banshee raid he promised me but I was a bit taken off my feet at the time . 
The old girl an' all the clan'll be along , said the little green man , an' I bet the Three will be damned glad of it , take it from me . 
Lakla , shining eyed and half fearful too I have other tidings that I am afraid will please you little , Larry darlin' . 
The Silent Ones say that you must not go into battle yourself . 
You must stay here with me , and with Goodwin for if if the Shining One does come , then must we be here to meet it . 
And you might not be , you know , Larry , if you fight , she said , looking shyly up at him from under the long lashes . 
That's about the hardest yet , he answered slowly . 
Still I see their point the lamb corralled for the altar has no right to stray out among the lions , he added grimly . 
Don't worry , sweet , he told her . 
As long as I've sat in the game I'll stick to the rules . 
Olaf took fierce joy in the coming fray . 
The Norns spin close to the end of this web , he rum bled . 
In his hand was an enormous mace of black metal , fully five feet long , crowned with a massive head . 
I pass to the twelve hours' closing . 
These were to attack when the Murians debauched from the corials . 
At any rate the numbers against us would be lessened . 
Next , under the direction of the frog king , levies com manded by subsidiary chieftains had completed rows of rough walls along the probable route of the Murians through the cavern . 
These afforded the Akka a fair protection behind which they could hurl their darts and spears curiously enough they had never developed the bow as a weapon . 
Behind the wall defending the mouth of the cavern , waited other thousands of the Akka . 
Now , said the handmaiden , there's nothing else we can do save wait . 
She led us out through her bower and up the little path that ran to the embrasure . 
Through the quiet came a sound , a sighing , a half mourn ful whispering that beat about us and fled away . 
They come ! cried Lakla , the light of battle in her eyes . 
Larry drew her to him , raised her in his arms , kissed her . 
A woman ! acclaimed the O'Keefe . 
And we waited waited it seemed interminably , gaze fas tened upon the low wall across the cavern mouth . 
Suddenly I remembered the crystal through which I had peered when the hidden assassins had crept upon us . 
Raising mine , I saw the lines furthest away leap into sudden activity . 
Spurred war rior after warrior leaped upon the barricade and over it . 
They come ! whispered Lakla . 
At the far ends of the crescent a terrific milling had begun . 
Here it was plain the Akka were holding . 
Faintly , for the distance was great , I could see fresh force upon force rush up and take the places of those who had fallen . 
And with it vanished , too , long lines of the great amphibians close behind it . 
That which makes things fall upward , hissed Olaf . 
Nearer and nearer the verge of the ledge they pushed Nak's warriors . 
Leaping upon the dwarfs , smit ing them with spear and club , with teeth and spur , the Akka fought like devils . 
Quivering under the ray , they leaped and dragged down and slew . 
Now there was but one long line of the frog men at the very edge of the cliff . 
My gaze dropped to the foot of the cliffs . 
It cas caded like a waterfall , and as it flowed it spread whirling out , in columns and eddies , clouds and wisps of misty , curdled coruscations . 
Good God ! breathed Larry . 
Look ! The radiance was marching MARCHING down the colossal bridge . 
It moved swiftly , in some unthinkable way INTELLIGENTLY . 
It swathed the Akka , and closer , ever closer it swept toward the approach upon which Yolara's men had now gained foothold . 
Lakla drew a deep breath . 
The Silent Ones forgive me for doubting them , she whispered and again hope blossomed on her face even as it did on Larry's . 
The frog men were gaining . 
Clothed in the armour of that mist , they pressed back from the bridge head the invaders . 
There was another prodigious movement at the ends of the crescent , and racing up , pressing against the dwarfs , came other legions of Nak's warriors . 
And re enforcing those out on the prodigious arch , the frog men stationed in the gard ens below us poured back to the castle and out through the open Portal . 
They're licked ! shouted Larry . 
They're So quickly I could not follow the movement his automatic leaped to his hand spoke , once and again and again . 
Rador leaped to the head of the little path , sword in hand Olaf , shouting and whirling his mace , followed . 
I strove to get my own gun quickly . 
For up that path were running twoscore of Lugur's men , while from below Lugur's own voice roared . 
Quick ! Slay not the handmaiden or her lover ! Carry them down . 
Quick ! But slay the others ! The handmaiden raced toward Larry , stopped , whistled shrilly again and again . 
Larry's pistol was empty , but as the dwarfs rushed upon him I dropped two of them with mine . 
It jammed I could not use it I sprang to his side . 
Rador was down , struggling in a heap of Lugur's men . 
Olaf , a Viking of old , was whirling his great hammer , and strik ing , striking through armour , flesh , and bone . 
Larry was down , Lakla flew to him . 
A cry from Lakla the dwarfs had seized her , had lifted her despite her struggles , were carrying her away . 
One I dropped with the butt of my useless pistol , and then went down myself under the rush of another . 
Through the clamour I heard a booming of the Akka , closer , closer then through it the bellow of Lugur . 
I made a mighty effort , swung a hand up , and sunk my fingers in the throat of the soldier striving to kill me . 
Writhing over him , my fingers touched a poniard I thrust it deep , stag gered to my feet . 
The O'Keefe , shielding Lakla , was battling with a long sword against a half dozen of the soldiers . 
I started toward him , was struck , and under the impact hurled to the ground . 
Dizzily I raised myself and leaning upon my elbow , stared and moved no more . 
I crawled over toward the O'Keefe . 
He raised his pistol , dropped it . 
Can't hit him without hitting Olaf , he whispered . 
Lakla signalled the frog men they advanced toward the two but Olaf saw them , broke the red dwarf's hold , sent Lugur reel ing a dozen feet away . 
No ! shouted the Norseman , the ice of his pale blue eyes glinting like frozen flames , blood streaming down his face and dripping from his hands . 
No ! Lugur is mine ! None but me slays him ! Ho , you Lugur and cursed him and Yo lara and the Dweller hideously I cannot set those curses down here . 
Mad now as the Norseman , the red dwarf sprang . 
'Ware , Olaf ! cried O'Keefe but Olaf did not answer . 
For a second or two the Norseman looked down upon his enemy , motionless in that paralyzing grip . 
And then slowly he began to break him ! Lakla gave a little cry made a motion toward the two . 
But Larry drew her head down against his breast , hiding her eyes then fastened his own upon the pair , white faced , stern . 
Slowly , ever so slowly , proceeded Olaf . 
At the end he screamed horribly . 
There was a cracking sound , as of a stout stick snapped . 
There was now no mad ness in his eyes only a great weariness . 
And there was peace on the once tortured face . 
And thus died Olaf Huldricksson . 
We looked down upon him nor did Lakla , nor Larry , nor I try to hide our tears . 
And as we stood the Akka brought to us that other mighty fighter , Rador but in him there was life , and we attended to him there as best we could . 
We will bear him into the castle where we may give him greater care , she said . 
For , lo ! the hosts of Yolara have been beaten back and on the bridge comes Nak with tid ings . 
We looked over the parapet . 
It was even as she had said . 
Over ! exclaimed Larry incredulously . 
We live then heart of mine ! The Silent Ones recall their veils , she said , pointing to the dome . 
Back through the slitted opening the radiance was streaming withdrawing from sea and island marching back over the bridge with that same ordered , intelligent motion . 
Behind it the red light pressed , like skirmishers on the heels of a retreating army . 
And yet faltered the handmaiden as we passed into her chamber , and doubtful were the eyes she turned upon the O'Keefe . 
What was it coming nearer , ever nearer ? Now Lakla and O'Keefe heard it , life ebbing from lips and cheeks . 
The bell notes swept through and about us , a hurricane . 
The crescent strand was once more a ferment . 
Back , back were the Akka being swept , as though by brooms , tottering on the edge of the ledge , falling into the waters . 
Swiftly they were finished and where they had fought was an eddying throng clothed in tatters or naked , swaying , drifting , arms tossing like marionettes of Satan . 
The dead alive ! The slaves of the Dweller ! They swayed and tossed , and then , like water racing through an opened dam , they swept upon the bridge head . 
On and on they pushed , like the bore of a mighty tide . 
The frog men strove against them , clubbing , spearing , tearing them . 
But even those worst smitten seemed not to fall . 
On they pushed , driving forward , irresistible a battering ram of flesh and bone . 
They clove the masses of the Akka , press ing them to the sides of the bridge and over . 
Through the open gates they forced them for there was no room for the frog men to stand against that implacable tide . 
Then those of the Akka who were left turned their backs and ran . 
We heard the clang of the golden wings of the por tal , and none too soon to keep out the first of the Dweller's dreadful hordes . 
The bell notes became sharper , more insistent . 
At the cav ern mouth a radiance began to grow a gleaming from which the atoms of diamond dust seemed to try to flee . 
Those in the centre began to stream back , faster and ever faster , leaving motionless deep ranks on each side . 
Back they flowed until from golden doors to cavern mouth a wide lane stretched , walled on each side by the dead alive . 
The far radiance became brighter it gathered itself at the end of the dreadful lane it was shot with sparklings and with pulsings of polychromatic light . 
Slower grew the Dweller's pace as it drew nearer . 
Behind it each face of the dead alive turned toward it , and those beside it throbbed and gleamed with its luminescence . 
Yolara crept close , just beyond the reach of its spirals . 
She murmured and the Dweller bent toward her , its seven globes steady in their shining mists , as though listening . 
It drew erect once more , resumed its doubtful scrutiny . 
Yo lara's face darkened she turned abruptly , spoke to a captain of her guards . 
A dwarf raced back between the palisades of dead alive . 
Now the priestess cried out , her voice ringing like a silver clarion . 
Ye are done , ye Three ! The Shining One stands at your door , demanding entrance . 
Your beasts are slain and your power is gone . 
The priestess laughed the blue eyes flashed . 
It is ended ! she cried . 
If you will not open , needs must we open for you ! Over the bridge was marching a long double file of the dwarfs . 
They bore a smoothed and handled tree trunk whose head was knobbed with a huge hall of metal . 
Past the priest ess , past the Shining One , they carried it fifty of them to each side of the ram and behind them stepped Marakin off ! Larry awoke to life . 
Now , thank God , he rasped , I can get that devil , any way ! He drew his pistol , took careful aim . 
Even as he pressed the trigger there rang through the abode a tremendous clanging . 
The ram was battering at the gates . 
O'Keefe's bul let went wild . 
The Russian must have heard the shot per haps the missile was closer than we knew . 
He made a swift leap behind the guards was lost to sight . 
Once more the thunderous clanging rang through the castle . 
Lakla drew herself erect down upon her dropped the listening aloofness . 
Gravely she bowed her head . 
It is time , O love of mine . 
The Silent Ones say that the way of fear is closed , but the way of love is open . 
They call upon us to redeem our promise ! For a hundred heart beats they clung to each other , breast to breast and lip to lip . 
Below , the clangour was increasing , the great trunk swinging harder and faster upon the metal gates . 
Now Lakla gently loosed the arms of the O'Keefe , and for another instant those two looked into each other's souls . 
I would it might have been otherwise , Larry darlin' , she whispered . 
But at least we pass together , dearest of mine ! She leaped to the window . 
Yolara ! the golden voice rang out sweetly . 
We open the Portal and come forth to you and the Shining One Larry and I. The priestess's silver chimes of laughter rang out , cruel , mocking . 
Come , then , quickly , she jeered . 
For surely both the Shining One and I yearn for you ! Her malice laden laughter chimed high once more . 
Keep us not lonely long ! the priestess mocked . 
Larry drew a deep breath , stretched both hands out to me . 
It's good by , I guess , Doc . 
Good by and good luck , old boy . 
If you get out , and you WILL , let the old Dolphin know I'm gone . 
And carry on , pal and always remember the O'Keefe loved you like a brother . 
I squeezed his hands desperately . 
Then out of my balance shaking woe a strange comfort was born . 
Maybe it's not good by , Larry ! I cried . 
The banshee has not cried ! A flash of hope passed over his face the old reckless grin shone forth . 
It's so ! he said . 
By the Lord , it's so ! Then Lakla bent toward me , and for the second time kissed me . 
Come ! she said to Larry . 
Hand in hand they moved away , into the corridor that led to the door outside of which waited the Shining One and its priestess . 
And unseen by them , wrapped as they were within their love and sacrifice , I crept softly behind . 
For I had deter mined that if enter the Dweller's embrace they must , they should not go alone . 
They paused before the Golden Portals the handmaiden pressed its opening lever the massive leaves rolled back . 
Heads high , proudly , serenely , they passed through and out upon the hither span . 
On each side of us stood the Dweller's slaves , faces turned rigidly toward their master . 
A hundred feet away the Shin ing One pulsed and spiralled in its evilly glorious lambency of sparkling plumes . 
Unhesitating , always with that same high serenity , Lakla and the O'Keefe , hands clasped like little children , drew closer to that wondrous shape . 
I could not see their faces , but I saw awe fall upon those of the watching dwarfs , and into the burning eyes of Yolara crept a doubt . 
Closer they drew to the Dweller , and closer , I following them step by step . 
The Shining One's whirling lessened its tinklings were faint , almost stilled . 
It seemed to watch them apprehensively . 
A silence fell upon us all , a thick silence , brooding , ominous , palpable . 
Now the pair were face to face with the child of the Three so near that with one of its misty tentacles it could have enfolded them . 
And the Shining One drew back ! Yes , drew back and back with it stepped Yolara , the doubt in her eyes deepening . 
And there Yolara gripped her self the hell that seethed within her soul leaped out of her eyes , a cry , a shriek of rage , tore from her lips . 
As at a signal , the Shining One flamed high its spirals and eddying mists swirled madly , the pulsing core of it blazed radiance . 
A score of coruscating tentacles swept straight upon the pair who stood intrepid , unresisting , awaiting its embrace . 
And upon me , lurking behind them . 
Through me swept a mighty exaltation . 
It was the end then and I was to meet it with them . 
The radiance that the Three wielded grew more in tense , thicker , seemed to expand . 
They turned and ran , racing franti cally over the bridge toward the cavern mouth . 
The serried ranks of the dead alive trembled , shook . 
Then from their faces tied the horror of wedded ecstasy and an guish . 
Peace , utter peace , followed in its wake . 
And as fields of wheat are bent and fall beneath the wind , they fell . 
No longer dead alive , now all of the blessed dead , freed from their dreadful slavery ! Abruptly from the sparkling mists the cloud of eyes was gone . 
Faintly revealed in them were only the heads of the Silent Ones . 
And they drew before us were before us ! No flames now in their ebon eyes for the flickering fires were quenched in great tears , streaming down the marble white faces . 
They bent toward us , over us their radiance enfolded us . 
I felt a tender hand upon my head and panic and frozen dread and nightmare web that held me fled . 
Then they , too , were gone . 
Upon Larry's breast the handmaiden was sobbing sob bing out her heart but this time with the joy of one who is swept up from the very threshold of hell into paradise . 
CHAPTER XXXV Larry Farewell ! MY HEART , Larry It was the handmaiden's murmur . 
My heart feels like a bird that is flying from a nest of sorrow . 
Hours had passed since the terror I have just related . 
At last , Lakla and Larry helping , we found them . 
Love is stronger than all things . 
The handmaiden was weeping softly . 
Love was stronger than the Shining One . 
And when its evil fled , love went with them wherever souls go . 
Of Stanton and Thora there was no trace nor , after our discovery of those other two , did I care to look more . 
They were dead and they were free . 
We buried Throckmartin and Edith beside Olaf in Lakla's bower . 
But before the body of my old friend was placed within the grave I gave it a careful and sorrowful examina tion . 
The skin was firm and smooth , but cold not the cold of death , but with a chill that set my touching fingers tingling unpleasantly . 
The body was bloodless the course of veins and arteries marked by faintly indented white furrows , as though their walls had long collapsed . 
Lips , mouth , even the tongue , was paper white . 
There was no sign of dissolution as we know it no shadow or stain upon the marble surface . 
They had risen , even as the messenger had promised Rador . 
Fierce had been the struggle in the gardened city by the silver waters with those Lugur and Yolara bad left behind to garrison it . 
Deadly had been the slaughter of the fair haired , reaping the har vest of hatred they had been sowing so long . 
Not without a pang of regret did I think of the beautiful , gaily malicious elfin women destroyed evil though they may have been . 
The ancient city of Lara was a charnel . 
Of all the rulers not twoscore had escaped , and these into regions of peril which to describe as sanctuary would be mockery . 
Nor had the ladala fared so well . 
Of all the men and women , for women as well as men had taken their part in the swift war , not more than a tenth remained alive . 
And the dancing motes of light in the silver air were thick , thick they whispered . 
I don't want to , Larry darlin' , she told him . 
I want to go out with you to Ireland . 
But for a time I think the Three would have us remain and set that place in order . 
The O'Keefe was bothered about something else than the government of Muria . 
If they've killed off all the priests , who's to marry us , heart of mine ? he worried . 
None of those Siya and Siyana rites , no matter what , he added hastily . 
Marry ! cried the handmaiden incredulously . 
Marry us ? Why , Larry dear , we ARE married ! The O'Keefe's astonishment was complete his jaw dropped collapse seemed imminent . 
We are ? he gasped . 
When ? he stammered fatuously . 
An' is that enough for you , mavourneen ? he whispered humbly . 
Enough ? The handmaiden's puzzlement was complete , profound . 
Enough ? Larry darlin' , what MORE could we ask ? He drew a deep breath , clasped her close . 
Kiss the bride , Doc ! cried the O'Keefe . 
And for the third and , soul's sorrow ! the last time , Lakla dimpling and blushing , I thrilled to the touch of her soft , sweet lips . 
Quickly were our preparations for departure made . 
Rador , conscious , his immense vitality conquering fast his wounds , was to be borne ahead of us . 
And when all was done , Lakla , Larry , and I made our way up to the scarlet stone that was the doorway to the chamber of the Three . 
When the great slab rolled away , no torrents of opalescence came rushing out upon us . 
The vast dome was dim , tenantless its curved walls that had cascaded Light shone now but faintly the dais was empty its wall of moon flame radiance gone . 
And what I wondered had been the secret of that promise they had wrung from their handmaiden and from Larry . 
Well , Lugur , no matter what he held of wickedness , held also high courage . 
The cavern was paved with the dead alive , the Akka car rying them out by the hundreds , casting them into the waters . 
Through the lane down which the Dweller had passed we went as quickly as we could , coming at last to the space where the coria waited . 
And not long after we swung past where the shadow had hung and hovered over the shining depths of the Midnight Pool . 
Upon Lakla's insistence we passed on to the palace of Lugur , not to Yolara's I do not know why , but go there then she would not . 
And within one of its columned rooms , maidens of the black haired folks , the wistfulness , the fear , all gone from their sparkling eyes , served us . 
I spoke of this , and to my surprise both the handmaiden and the O'Keefe showed an almost embarrassed haste to acquiesce in my hesitant suggestion . 
Sure , cried Larry , there's lots of time before night ! He caught himself sheepishly cast a glance at Lakla . 
I keep forgettin' there's no night here , he mumbled . 
What did you say , Larry ? asked she . 
I said I wish we were sitting in our home in Ireland , watching the sun go down , he whispered to her . 
Vaguely I wondered why she blushed . 
But now I must hasten . 
We went to the temple , and here at least the ghastly litter of the dead had been cleaned away . 
There was but a broken and rent mass of the radiant cliffs against whose base the lake lapped . 
Long I looked and turned away saddened . 
Let's go back , said Larry abruptly . 
I dropped a little behind them to examine a bit of carving and , after all , they did not want me . 
I watched them pacing slowly ahead , his arm around her , black hair close to bronze gold ringlets . 
Half were they over the bridge when through the roar of the imprisoned stream I heard my name called softly . 
Goodwin ! Amazed , I turned . 
From behind the pedestal of a carved group slunk Marakinoff ! My premonition had been right . 
Some way he had escaped , slipped through to here . 
He held his hands high , came forward cautiously . 
I am finished , he whispered Done ! I don't care what THEY'LL do to me . 
He nodded toward the handmaiden and Larry , now at the end of the bridge and passing on , oblivious of all save each other . 
His eyes were sunken , burning , mad his face etched with deep lines , as though a graver's tool had cut down through it . 
I took a step back ward . 
A grin , like the grimace of a fiend , blasted the Russian's visage . 
But YOU'LL carry nothing out of here ! shrieked Marakinoff . 
No ! My foot , darting out behind me , touched vacancy . 
The roaring of the racing stream deafened me . 
I felt its mists about me threw myself forward . 
I was falling falling with the Russian's hand strangling me . 
I struck water , sank the hands that gripped my throat relaxed for a moment their clutch . 
Then a shrieking as of all the pent winds of the universe in my ears blackness ! Consciousness returned slowly , agonizedly . 
Lakla ! A brilliant light was glowing through my closed lids . 
I opened my eyes , closed them with swords and needles of dazzling pain shooting through them . 
Again I opened them cautiously . 
It was the sun ! I staggered to my feet . 
Behind me was a shattered wall of basalt monoliths , hewn and squared . 
Before me was the Pa cific , smooth and blue and smiling . 
And not far away , cast up on the strand even as I had been , was Marakinoff ! He lay there , broken and dead indeed . 
Yet all the waters through which we had passed not even the waters of death themselves could wash from his face the grin of triumph . 
With the last of my strength I dragged the body from the strand and pushed it out into the waves . 
A little billow ran up , coiled about it , and carried it away , ducking and bend ing . 
Another seized it , and another , playing with it . 
It floated from my sight that which had been Marakinoff , with all his schemes to turn our fair world into an undreamed of hell . 
My strength began to come back to me . 
I found a thicket and slept slept it must have been for many hours , for when I again awakened the dawn was rosing the east . 
I will not tell my sufferings . 
The place was one of the farther islets of the Nan Matal . 
To the north I caught the shadows of the ruins of Nan Tauach , where was the moon door , black against the sky . 
Where was the moon door which , someway , somehow , I must reach , and quickly . 
At dawn of the next day I got together driftwood and bound it together in shape of a rough raft with fallen creep ers . 
Then , with a makeshift paddle , I set forth for Nan Tauach . 
Slowly , painfully , I crept up to it . 
And at its opening I stopped , and the tears ran streaming down my cheeks while I wept aloud with sorrow and with disappointment and with weariness . 
For the great wall in which had been set the pale slab whose threshold we had crossed to the land of the Shining One lay shattered and broken . 
The monoliths were heaped about the wall had fallen , and about them shone a film of water , half covering them . 
There was no moon door ! Dazed and weeping , I drew closer , climbed upon their out lying fragments . 
I looked out only upon the sea . 
Upon the waters there was no trace of it . 
