Master and Man by Leo Tolstoy Trans . 
Louise and Aylmer Maude Master and Man I It happened in the 'seventies in winter , on the day after St . 
He was now in a hurry to start , lest buyers from the town might forestall him in making a profitable purchase . 
The youthful landowner was asking ten thousand rubles for the grove simply because Vasili Andreevich was offering seven thousand . 
Seven thousand was , however , only a third of its real value . 
Nikita , the only one of Vasili Andreevich's labourers who was not drunk that day , ran to harness the horse . 
He was valued everywhere for his industry , dexterity , and strength at work , and still more for his kindly and pleasant temper . 
Vasili Andreevich himself had turned him away several times , but had afterwards taken him back again valuing his honesty , his kindness to animals , and especially his cheapness . 
All the wages Nikita earned went to his wife , and he raised no objection to that . 
'What agreement did we ever draw up with you ? said Vasili Andreevich to Nikita . 
'If you need anything , take it you will work it off . 
I'm not like others to keep you waiting , and making up accounts and reckoning fines . 
You serve me and I don't neglect you . 
'Yes , I understand , Vasili Andreevich . 
You know that I serve you and take as much pains as I would for my own father . 
I understand very well ! Nikita would reply . 
'Now then , now then , there's time enough . 
'If you don't want any more , you needn't . 
But don't go asking for any later , said Nikita quite seriously and fully explaining his conduct to Mukhorty . 
Then he ran back to the shed pulling the playful young horse , who wanted to gambol all over the yard , by the rein . 
There was no one else in the yard except a stranger , the cook's husband , who had come for the holiday . 
When everything was nearly ready and only the reins had to be adjusted , Nikita sent the other man to the shed for some straw and to the barn for a drugget . 
'There , that's all right ! Now , now , don't bristle up ! said Nikita , pressing down into the sledge the freshly threshed oat straw the cook's husband had brought . 
'And now let's spread the sacking like this , and the drugget over it . 
There , like that it will be comfortable sitting , he went on , suiting the action to the words and tucking the drugget all round over the straw to make a seat . 
'Thank you , dear man . 
Things always go quicker with two working at it ! he added . 
'Take me with you ! he cried , fastening up his coat as he ran . 
It was past two o'clock and the day was windy , dull , and cold , with more than twenty degrees Fahrenheit of frost . 
Half the sky was hidden by a lowering dark cloud . 
In the yard it was quiet , but in the street the wind was felt more keenly . 
The snow swept down from a neighbouring shed and whirled about in the corner near the bath house . 
'See now ! The young scamp is there already ! he exclaimed when he saw his little son in the sledge . 
Vasili Andreevich was excited by the vodka he had drunk with his visitors , and so he was even more pleased than usual with everything that was his and all that he did . 
The sight of his son , whom he always thought of as his heir , now gave him great satisfaction . 
He looked at him , screwing up his eyes and showing his long teeth . 
'Now really , you ought to take Nikita with you , she said timidly , stepping out from the doorway . 
Vasili Andreevich did not answer . 
Her words evidently annoyed him and he frowned angrily and spat . 
'You have money on you , she continued in the same plaintive voice . 
'Really you ought to take him . 
I beg you in God's name ! his wife repeated , wrapping her shawl more closely round her head . 
'There , she sticks to it like a leech ! . 
Where am I to take him ? 'I'm quite ready to go with you , Vasili Andreevich , said Nikita cheerfully . 
'But they must feed the horses while I am away , he added , turning to his master's wife . 
'I'll look after them , Nikita dear . 
I'll tell Simon , replied the mistress . 
'Well , Vasili Andreevich , am I to come with you ? said Nikita , awaiting a decision . 
'It seems I must humour my old woman . 
'Hey , dear man , come and hold the horse ! shouted Nikita to the cook's husband , who was still in the yard . 
'Only don't be too long dressing yourself up . 
Look alive ! shouted Vasili Andreevich , grinning at Nikita . 
'Arinushka ! Get my coat down from the stove . 
I'm going with the master , he said , as he ran into the hut and took down his girdle from the nail on which it hung . 
'There now , you'll have a chance of a holiday with your good man , said Nikita , who from kindhearted politeness always said something to anyone he was alone with . 
'Now we're all right ! 'You ought to wrap your feet up , Nikita . 
Your boots are very bad . 
Nikita stopped as if he had suddenly realized this . 
'Yes , I ought to . 
But they'll do like this . 
It isn't far ! and he ran out into the yard . 
'Won't you be cold , Nikita ? said the mistress as he came up to the sledge . 
Nikita jumped in just as the sledge started , and seated himself in front on the left side , with one leg hanging over the edge . 
II The good stallion took the sledge along at a brisk pace over the smooth frozen road through the village , the runners squeaking slightly as they went . 
'I'll give it you ! Be off to mamma , you dog ! The boy jumped down . 
The horse increased his amble and , suddenly changing foot , broke into a fast trot . 
The Crosses , the village where Vasili Andreevich lived , consisted of six houses . 
As soon as they had passed the blacksmith's hut , the last in the village , they realized that the wind was much stronger than they had thought . 
The road could hardly be seen . 
The tracks left by the sledge runners were immediately covered by snow and the road was only distinguished by the fact that it was higher than the rest of the ground . 
There was a swirl of snow over the fields and the line where sky and earth met could not be seen . 
The Telyatin forest , usually clearly visible , now only loomed up occasionally and dimly through the driving snowy dust . 
Nikita's wide coat collar , as he sat on the windy side , pressed close to his cheek and nose . 
'This road doesn't give him a chance it's too snowy , said Vasili Andreevich , who prided himself on his good horse . 
'I once drove to Pashutino with him in half an hour . 
'What ? asked Nikita , who could not hear on account of his collar . 
'I say I once went to Pashutino in half an hour , shouted Vasili Andreevich . 
'It goes without saying that he's a good horse , replied Nikita . 
They were silent for a while . 
But Vasili Andreevich wished to talk . 
The wind again prevented Nikita's hearing his master's words . 
Vasili Andreevich repeated the jest about the cooper in his loud , clear voice . 
'That's their business , Vasili Andreevich . 
I don't pry into their affairs . 
As long as she doesn't ill treat our boy God be with them . 
'That's so , said Vasili Andreevich . 
'Well , and will you be buying a horse in spring ? he went on , changing the subject . 
'Yes , I can't avoid it , answered Nikita , turning down his collar and leaning back towards his master . 
The conversation now became interesting to him and he did not wish to lose a word . 
He must begin to plough for himself , but till now we've always had to hire someone , he said . 
'Well , why not have the lean cruppered one . 
I won't charge much for it , shouted Vasili Andreevich , feeling animated , and consequently starting on his favourite occupation that of horse dealing which absorbed all his mental powers . 
I think of your interest as of my own according to conscience . 
Brekhunov isn't a man to wrong anyone . 
Let the loss be mine . 
Honestly ! he shouted in the voice in which he hypnotized his customers and dealers . 
'It's a real good horse . 
'Quite so ! said Nikita with a sigh , and convinced that there was nothing more to listen to , he again released his collar , which immediately covered his ear and face . 
They drove on in silence for about half an hour . 
The wind blew sharply onto Nikita's side and arm where his sheepskin was torn . 
He huddled up and breathed into the collar which covered his mouth , and was not wholly cold . 
'What do you think shall we go through Karamyshevo or by the straight road ? asked Vasili Andreevich . 
The road through Karamyshevo was more frequented and was well marked with a double row of high stakes . 
The straight road was nearer but little used and had no stakes , or only poor ones covered with snow . 
'Though Karamyshevo is farther , it is better going , he said . 
'But by the straight road , when once we get through the hollow by the forest , it's good going sheltered , said Vasili Andreevich , who wished to go the nearest way . 
'Just as you please , said Nikita , and again let go of his collar . 
On turning they faced directly against the wind , and snow was beginning to fall . 
Vasili Andreevich , who was driving , inflated his cheeks , blowing the breath out through his moustache . 
So they went on in silence for about ten minutes . 
Suddenly Vasili Andreevich began saying something . 
'Eh , what ? asked Nikita , opening his eyes . 
Vasili Andreevich did not answer , but bent over , looking behind them and then ahead of the horse . 
The sweat had curled Mukhorty's coat between his legs and on his neck . 
He went at a walk . 
'What is it ? Nikita asked again . 
'What is it ? What is it ? Vasili Andreevich mimicked him angrily . 
The snow was not deep that year , so that it was possible to walk anywhere , but still in places it was knee deep and got into Nikita's boots . 
He went about feeling the ground with his feet and the whip , but could not find the road anywhere . 
'Well , how is it ? asked Vasili Andreevich when Nikita came back to the sledge . 
'There is no road this side . 
I must go to the other side and try there , said Nikita . 
'There's something there in front . 
Go and have a look . 
Having searched to the right also , he returned to the sledge , brushed the snow from his coat , shook it out of his boots , and seated himself once more . 
'We must go to the right , he said decidedly . 
'The wind was blowing on our left before , but now it is straight in my face . 
Drive to the right , he repeated with decision . 
Vasili Andreevich took his advice and turned to the right , but still there was no road . 
They went on in that direction for some time . 
The wind was as fierce as ever and it was snowing lightly . 
'It seems , Vasili Andreevich , that we have gone quite astray , Nikita suddenly remarked , as if it were a pleasant thing . 
'What is that ? he added , pointing to some potato vines that showed up from under the snow . 
Vasili Andreevich stopped the perspiring horse , whose deep sides were heaving heavily . 
'What is it ? 'Why , we are on the Zakharov lands . 
See where we've got to ! 'Nonsense ! retorted Vasili Andreevich . 
'It's not nonsense , Vasili Andreevich . 
It's the truth , replied Nikita . 
'You can feel that the sledge is going over a potato field , and there are the heaps of vines which have been carted here . 
It's the Zakharov factory land . 
'Dear me , how we have gone astray ! said Vasili Andreevich . 
'What are we to do now ? 'We must go straight on , that's all . 
We shall come out somewhere if not at Zakharova , then at the proprietor's farm , said Nikita . 
Vasili Andreevich agreed , and drove as Nikita had indicated . 
So they went on for a considerable time . 
At times they came onto bare fields and the sledge runners rattled over frozen lumps of earth . 
The snow was falling from above and sometimes rose from below . 
The horse was evidently exhausted , his hair had all curled up from sweat and was covered with hoar frost , and he went at a walk . 
Suddenly he stumbled and sat down in a ditch or water course . 
Vasili Andreevich wanted to stop , but Nikita cried to him 'Why stop ? We've got in and must get out . 
The horse gave a start and quickly climbed out onto the frozen bank . 
It was evidently a ditch that had been dug there . 
'Where are we now ? asked Vasili Andreevich . 
'We'll soon find out ! Nikita replied . 
'Go on , we'll get somewhere . 
'Why , this must be the Goryachkin forest ! said Vasili Andreevich , pointing to something dark that appeared amid the snow in front of them . 
'We'll see what forest it is when we get there , said Nikita . 
Nikita had guessed right it was not a wood , but a row of tall willows with a few leaves still fluttering on them here and there . 
They had evidently been planted along the ditch round a threshing floor . 
They were back on a road . 
'Well , here we are , but heaven only knows where ! said Nikita . 
After passing the barn the road turned to the wind and they drove into a snow drift . 
But ahead of them was a lane with houses on either side , so evidently the snow had been blown across the road and they had to drive through the drift . 
And so in fact it was . 
Having driven through the snow they came out into a street . 
The white shirt in particular struggled desperately , waving its sleeves about . 
'There now , either a lazy woman or a dead one has not taken her clothes down before the holiday , remarked Nikita , looking at the fluttering shirts . 
III At the entrance to the street the wind still raged and the road was thickly covered with snow , but well within the village it was calm , warm , and cheerful . 
In the middle of the village girls could be heard singing . 
Here in the village there seemed to be less wind and snow , and the frost was less keen . 
'Why , this is Grishkino , said Vasili Andreevich . 
'So it is , responded Nikita . 
From Grishkino to Goryachkin was about another four miles . 
In the middle of the village they almost ran into a tall man walking down the middle of the street . 
He was Isay , a peasant of Vasili Andreevich's acquaintance , and well known as the principal horse thief in the district . 
'Ah , Vasili Andreevich ! Where are you off to ? said Isay , enveloping Nikita in the odour of the vodka he had drunk . 
'We were going to Goryachkin . 
'And look where you've got to ! You should have gone through Molchanovka . 
'Should have , but didn't manage it , said Vasili Andreevich , holding in the horse . 
'That's a good horse , said Isay , with a shrewd glance at Mukhorty , and with a practised hand he tightened the loosened knot high in the horse's bushy tail . 
'Are you going to stay the night ? 'No , friend . 
'Your business must be pressing . 
And who is this ? Ah , Nikita Stepanych ! 'Who else ? replied Nikita . 
Don't take to the left . 
You will come out onto the high road , and then turn to the right . 
'And where do we turn off the high road ? As in summer , or the winter way ? asked Nikita . 
As soon as you turn off you'll see some bushes , and opposite them there is a way mark a large oak , one with branches and that's the way . 
Vasili Andreevich turned the horse back and drove through the outskirts of the village . 
'Why not stay the night ? Isay shouted after them . 
But Vasili Andreevich did not answer and touched up the horse . 
Four miles of good road , two of which lay through the forest , seemed easy to manage , especially as the wind was apparently quieter and the snow had stopped . 
The storm , far from ceasing , seemed to have grown yet stronger . 
The road was completely covered with drifting snow , and only the stakes showed that they had not lost their way . 
But even the stakes ahead of them were not easy to see , since the wind blew in their faces . 
So they travelled on for about ten minutes , when suddenly , through the slanting screen of wind driven snow , something black showed up which moved in front of the horse . 
This was another sledge with fellow travellers . 
Mukhorty overtook them , and struck his hoofs against the back of the sledge in front of them . 
get in front ! cried voices from the sledge . 
Vasili Andreevich swerved aside to pass the other sledge . 
In it sat three men and a woman , evidently visitors returning from a feast . 
One peasant was whacking the snow covered croup of their little horse with a long switch , and the other two sitting in front waved their arms and shouted something . 
The woman , completely wrapped up and covered with snow , sat drowsing and bumping at the back . 
'Who are you ? shouted Vasili Andreevich . 
was all that could be heard . 
'Get along ! Keep up ! shouted another , ceaselessly beating his horse with the switch . 
'Just see what liquor does ! said Nikita . 
'They've tired that little horse to death . 
What pagans ! For a few minutes they heard the panting of the tired little horse and the drunken shouting of the peasants . 
This encounter cheered and enlivened Vasili Andreevich , and he drove on more boldly without examining the way marks , urging on the horse and trusting to him . 
Nikita had nothing to do , and as usual in such circumstances he drowsed , making up for much sleepless time . 
Suddenly the horse stopped and Nikita nearly fell forward onto his nose . 
'You know we're off the track again ! said Vasili Andreevich . 
'How's that ? 'Why , there are no way marks to be seen . 
We must have got off the road again . 
He walked about for a long time , now disappearing and now reappearing , and finally he came back . 
'There is no road here . 
There may be farther on , he said , getting into the sledge . 
It was already growing dark . 
The snow storm had not increased but had also not subsided . 
'If we could only hear those peasants ! said Vasili Andreevich . 
'Well they haven't caught us up . 
We must have gone far astray . 
Or maybe they have lost their way too . 
'Where are we to go then ? asked Vasili Andreevich . 
'Why , we must let the horse take its own way , said Nikita . 
'He will take us right . 
Let me have the reins . 
Vasili Andreevich gave him the reins , the more willingly because his hands were beginning to feel frozen in his thick gloves . 
Nikita took the reins , but only held them , trying not to shake them and rejoicing at his favourite's sagacity . 
And indeed the clever horse , turning first one ear and then the other now to one side and then to the other , began to wheel round . 
'The one thing he can't do is to talk , Nikita kept saying . 
'See what he is doing ! Go on , go on ! You know best . 
That's it , that's it ! The wind was now blowing from behind and it felt warmer . 
'Yes , he's clever , Nikita continued , admiring the horse . 
'A Kirgiz horse is strong but stupid . 
But this one just see what he's doing with his ears ! He doesn't need any telegraph . 
He can scent a mile off . 
Before another half hour had passed they saw something dark ahead of them a wood or a village and stakes again appeared to the right . 
They had evidently come out onto the road . 
'Why , that's Grishkino again ! Nikita suddenly exclaimed . 
It was already so dark that there were lights in some of the windows . 
Half way through the village Vasili Andreevich turned the horse towards a large double fronted brick house and stopped at the porch . 
Nikita went to the lighted snow covered window , in the rays of which flying snow flakes glittered , and knocked at it with his whip . 
'Who is there ? a voice replied to his knock . 
'From Kresty , the Brekhunovs , dear fellow , answered Nikita . 
'Just come out for a minute . 
'Is that you , Andreevich ? asked the old man . 
'Yes , friend , we've gone astray , said Vasili Andreevich . 
'We wanted to get to Goryachkin but found ourselves here . 
We went a second time but lost our way again . 
'Just see how you have gone astray ! said the old man . 
'Petrushka , go and open the gate ! he added , turning to the lad in the red shirt . 
'All right , said the lad in a cheerful voice , and ran back into the passage . 
'But we're not staying the night , said Vasili Andreevich . 
'Where will you go in the night ? You'd better stay ! 'I'd be glad to , but I must go on . 
It's business , and it can't be helped . 
'Well , warm yourself at least . 
The samovar is just ready . 
'Warm myself ? Yes , I'll do that , said Vasili Andreevich . 
The moon will rise and it will be lighter . 
Let's go in and warm ourselves , Nikita . 
'Well , why not ? Let us warm ourselves , replied Nikita , who was stiff with cold and anxious to warm his frozen limbs . 
Vasili Andreevich went into the room with the old man , and Nikita drove through the gate opened for him by Petrushka , by whose advice he backed the horse under the penthouse . 
The ground was covered with manure and the tall bow over the horse's head caught against the beam . 
The hens and the cock had already settled to roost there , and clucked peevishly , clinging to the beam with their claws . 
The disturbed sheep shied and rushed aside trampling the frozen manure with their hooves . 
The dog yelped desperately with fright and anger and then burst out barking like a puppy at the stranger . 
'Now that will be all right , he said , knocking the snow off his clothes . 
'Just hear how he barks ! he added , turning to the dog . 
'Be quiet , stupid ! Be quiet . 
You are only troubling yourself for nothing . 
We're not thieves , we're friends . 
'And these are , it's said , the three domestic counsellors , remarked the lad , and with his strong arms he pushed under the pent roof the sledge that had remained outside . 
'Why counsellors ? asked Nikita . 
'That's what is printed in Paulson . 
Get ready to receive him ! said the lad with a smile . 
'That's so , said Nikita . 
'You must be chilled through and through , said Petrushka . 
'Yes , I am rather , said Nikita , and they went across the yard and the passage into the house . 
IV The household to which Vasili Andreevich had come was one of the richest in the village . 
The family had five allotments , besides renting other land . 
They had six horses , three cows , two calves , and some twenty sheep . 
, two great grandchildren , three orphans , and four daughters in law with their babies . 
Two sons were living in Moscow as water carriers , and one was in the army . 
Besides these members of the family there was a visitor , a neighbour who was godfather to one of the children . 
Having had a drink of vodka and something to eat , they were about to take tea , and the samovar standing on the floor beside the brick oven was already humming . 
The children could be seen in the top bunks and on the top of the oven . 
A woman sat on a lower bunk with a cradle beside her . 
The old housewife , her face covered with wrinkles which wrinkled even her lips , was waiting on Vasili Andreevich . 
As Nikita entered the house she was offering her guest a small tumbler of thick glass which she had just filled with vodka . 
'Don't refuse , Vasili Andreevich , you mustn't ! Wish us a merry feast . 
Drink it , dear ! she said . 
The sight and smell of vodka , especially now when he was chilled through and tired out , much disturbed Nikita's mind . 
'Why , you're all covered with hoar frost , old fellow ! said the eldest brother , looking at Nikita's snow covered face , eyes , and beard . 
Nikita took off his coat , shook it again , hung it up beside the oven , and came up to the table . 
He too was offered vodka . 
'I don't drink , thank you kindly , he said frowning , and sat down on a bench near the second window . 
'How's that ? asked the eldest brother . 
'I just don't drink , replied Nikita without lifting his eyes but looking askance at his scanty beard and moustache and getting the icicles out of them . 
'It's not good for him , said Vasili Andreevich , munching a cracknel after emptying his glass . 
'Well , then , have some tea , said the kindly old hostess . 
'You must be chilled through , good soul . 
Their hosts were surprised , explained where and why they had missed their way , said who the tipsy people they had met were , and told them how they ought to go . 
'A little child could find the way to Molchanovka from here . 
All you have to do is to take the right turning from the high road . 
There's a bush you can see just there . 
But you didn't even get that far ! said the neighbour . 
'You'd better stay the night . 
The women will make up beds for you , said the old woman persuasively . 
'You could go on in the morning and it would be pleasanter , said the old man , confirming what his wife had said . 
Business ! said Vasili Andreevich . 
'Lose an hour and you can't catch it up in a year , he added , remembering the grove and the dealers who might snatch that deal from him . 
'We shall get there , shan't we ? he said , turning to Nikita . 
Nikita did not answer for some time , apparently still intent on thawing out his beard and moustache . 
'If only we don't go astray again , he replied gloomily . 
He was gloomy because he passionately longed for some vodka , and the only thing that could assuage that longing was tea and he had not yet been offered any . 
'But we have only to reach the turning and then we shan't go wrong . 
The road will be through the forest the whole way , said Vasili Andreevich . 
'It's just as you please , Vasili Andreevich . 
If we're to go , let us go , said Nikita , taking the glass of tea he was offered . 
'We'll drink our tea and be off . 
Then , biting off a tiny bit of sugar , he bowed to his hosts , said , 'Your health ! and drew in the steaming liquid . 
'If somebody would see us as far as the turning , said Vasili Andreevich . 
'Well , we can do that , said the eldest son . 
'Petrushka will harness and go that far with you . 
'Well , then , put in the horse , lad , and I shall be thankful to you for it . 
'Oh , what for , dear man ? said the kindly old woman . 
'We are heartily glad to do it . 
'Petrushka , go and put in the mare , said the eldest brother . 
'All right , replied Petrushka with a smile , and promptly snatching his cap down from a nail he ran away to harness . 
While the horse was being harnessed the talk returned to the point at which it had stopped when Vasili Andreevich drove up to the window . 
'The young people are getting out of hand , said the old man . 
'And how they do ! said the neighbour . 
'There's no managing them ! They know too much . 
There's Demochkin now , who broke his father's arm . 
It's all from being too clever , it seems . 
Nikita listened , watched their faces , and evidently would have liked to share in the conversation , but he was too busy drinking his tea and only nodded his head approvingly . 
He emptied one tumbler after another and grew warmer and warmer and more and more comfortable . 
It was evidently a sore subject and absorbed them all , but out of propriety they did not discuss their private affairs before strangers . 
'Just like the Matveevs , said the neighbour . 
'They used to have a proper house , but now they've split up none of them has anything . 
'And that is what you want to happen to us , said the old man , turning to his son . 
The son made no reply and there was an awkward pause . 
The silence was broken by Petrushka , who having harnessed the horse had returned to the hut a few minutes before this and had been listening all the time with a smile . 
'There's a fable about that in Paulson , he said . 
'A father gave his sons a broom to break . 
At first they could not break it , but when they took it twig by twig they broke it easily . 
And it's the same here , and he gave a broad smile . 
'I'm ready ! he added . 
'If you're ready , let's go , said Vasili Andreevich . 
'And as to separating , don't you allow it , Grandfather . 
You got everything together and you're the master . 
Go to the Justice of the Peace . 
He'll say how things should be done . 
'He carries on so , carries on so , the old man continued in a whining tone . 
'There's no doing anything with him . 
It's as if the devil possessed him . 
Nikita having meanwhile finished his fifth tumbler of tea laid it on its side instead of turning it upside down , hoping to be offered a sixth glass . 
But there was no more water in the samovar , so the hostess did not fill it up for him . 
Petrushka stood in his sheepskin in the middle of the yard by his horse , repeating some lines from Paulson's primer . 
He said with a smile 'Storms with mist the sky conceal , Snowy circles wheeling wild . 
Now like savage beast 'twill howl , And now 'tis wailing like a child . 
Nikita nodded approvingly as he arranged the reins . 
The old man , seeing Vasili Andreevich off , brought a lantern into the passage to show him a light , but it was blown out at once . 
And even in the yard it was evident that the snowstorm had become more violent . 
'Well , this is weather ! thought Vasili Andreevich . 
'Perhaps we may not get there after all . 
But there is nothing to be done . 
'It's no use asking them again . 
Maybe my age makes me timid . 
They'll get there all right , and at least we shall get to bed in good time and without any fuss , he thought . 
Petrushka did not think of danger . 
He knew the road and the whole district so well , and the lines about 'snowy circles wheeling wild' described what was happening outside so aptly that it cheered him up . 
V Vasili Andreevich went over to his sledge , found it with difficulty in the darkness , climbed in and took the reins . 
'Go on in front ! he cried . 
Petrushka kneeling in his low sledge started his horse . 
Mukhorty , who had been neighing for some time past , now scenting a mare ahead of him started after her , and they drove out into the street . 
The wind was so strong that when it blew from the side and the travellers steered against it , it tilted the sledges and turned the horses to one side . 
Petrushka drove his good mare in front at a brisk trot and kept shouting lustily . 
After travelling so for about ten minutes , Petrushka turned round and shouted something . 
Neither Vasili Andreevich nor Nikita could hear anything because of the wind , but they guessed that they had arrived at the turning . 
It was the bush at the turning . 
'Well now , God speed you ! 'Thank you , Petrushka ! 'Storms with mist the sky conceal ! shouted Petrushka as he disappeared . 
'There's a poet for you ! muttered Vasili Andreevich , pulling at the reins . 
'Yes , a fine lad a true peasant , said Nikita . 
Now and then he caught sight of a way sign , so that he knew they were still on a road and that there was nothing for him to be concerned about . 
Vasili Andreevich drove on , leaving it to the horse to keep to the road . 
But what had seemed to him a forest was only a bush . 
They passed the bush and drove on for another hundred yards but there was no fourth way mark nor any forest . 
Ten minutes went by , but there was still no forest . 
'There now , we must be astray again , said Vasili Andreevich , pulling up . 
Three or four times he was completely lost to sight . 
At last he returned and took the reins from Vasili Andreevich's hand . 
'We must go to the right , he said sternly and peremptorily , as he turned the horse . 
'Well , if it's to the right , go to the right , said Vasili Andreevich , yielding up the reins to Nikita and thrusting his freezing hands into his sleeves . 
'Now then , friend , stir yourself ! he shouted to the horse , but in spite of the shake of the reins Mukhorty moved only at a walk . 
The snow in places was up to his knees , and the sledge moved by fits and starts with his every movement . 
Nikita took the whip that hung over the front of the sledge and struck him once . 
The good horse , unused to the whip , sprang forward and moved at a trot , but immediately fell back into an amble and then to a walk . 
So they went on for five minutes . 
It was dark and the snow whirled from above and rose from below , so that sometimes the shaft bow could not be seen . 
At times the sledge seemed to stand still and the field to run backwards . 
Suddenly the horse stopped abruptly , evidently aware of something close in front of him . 
The fringe of a drift of snow that hung on the edge of the hollow , disturbed by Nikita's fall , showered down on him and got inside his collar . 
'What a thing to do ! said Nikita reproachfully , addressing the drift and the hollow and shaking the snow from under his collar . 
'Nikita ! Hey , Nikita ! shouted Vasili Andreevich from above . 
But Nikita did not reply . 
He was too occupied in shaking out the snow and searching for the whip he had dropped when rolling down the incline . 
He could not see either horse or sledge , but as he walked against the wind he heard Vasili Andreevich's shouts and Mukhorty's neighing , calling him . 
'I'm coming ! I'm coming ! What are you cackling for ? he muttered . 
Only when he had come up to the sledge could he make out the horse , and Vasili Andreevich standing beside it and looking gigantic . 
'Where the devil did you vanish to ? We must go back , if only to Grishkino , he began reproaching Nikita . 
I got stuck so fast there myself that I could hardly get out . 
'What shall we do , then ? We can't stay here ! We must go somewhere ! said Vasili Andreevich . 
Vasili Andreevich remained silent , as though now leaving everything to Nikita . 
But they had not gone a hundred yards before the horse again stopped short . 
The ravine was in front of him again . 
Nikita again climbed out and again trudged about in the snow . 
He did this for a considerable time and at last appeared from the opposite side to that from which he had started . 
'Vasili Andreevich , are you alive ? he called out . 
'Here ! replied Vasili Andreevich . 
'Well , what now ? 'I can't make anything out . 
We must drive against the wind again . 
They set off once more . 
Again Nikita went stumbling through the snow , again he fell in , again climbed out and trudged about , and at last quite out of breath he sat down beside the sledge . 
'Well , how now ? asked Vasili Andreevich . 
'Why , I am quite worn out and the horse won't go . 
'Then what's to be done ? 'Why , wait a minute . 
Nikita went away again but soon returned . 
'Follow me ! he said , going in front of the horse . 
Vasili Andreevich no longer gave orders but implicitly did what Nikita told him . 
'Here , follow me ! Nikita shouted , stepping quickly to the right , and seizing the rein he led Mukhorty down towards a snow drift . 
At first the horse held back , then he jerked forward , hoping to leap the drift , but he had not the strength and sank into it up to his collar . 
'Get out ! Nikita called to Vasili Andreevich who still sat in the sledge , and taking hold of one shaft he moved the sledge closer to the horse . 
'It's hard , brother ! he said to Mukhorty , 'but it can't be helped . 
Make an effort ! Now , now , just a little one ! he shouted . 
The horse gave a tug , then another , but failed to clear himself and settled down again as if considering something . 
'Now , brother , this won't do ! Nikita admonished him . 
'Now once more ! Again Nikita tugged at the shaft on his side , and Vasili Andreevich did the same on the other . 
Mukhorty lifted his head and then gave a sudden jerk . 
'That's it ! That's it ! cried Nikita . 
Nikita wished to lead him farther , but Vasili Andreevich , in his two fur coats , was so out of breath that he could not walk farther and dropped into the sledge . 
'Let me get my breath ! he said , unfastening the kerchief with which he had tied the collar of his fur coat at the village . 
You lie there , said Nikita . 
'I will lead him along . 
And with Vasili Andreevich in the sledge he led the horse by the bridle about ten paces down and then up a slight rise , and stopped . 
They both bent down involuntarily and waited till the violence of the squall should have passed . 
Mukhorty too laid back his ears and shook his head discontentedly . 
'What's that you are doing there ? asked Vasili Andreevich . 
What else is there to do ? I have no strength left , said Nikita as though excusing himself . 
'Can't we drive somewhere ? 'No , we can't . 
We shall only kill the horse . 
'We shall have to stay the night here , he said , as if preparing to spend the night at an inn , and he proceeded to unfasten the collar straps . 
'But shan't we be frozen ? remarked Vasili Andreevich . 
'Well , if we are we can't help it , said Nikita . 
To calm himself he sat down in the sledge and got out his cigarettes and matches . 
'Now come out ! come out ! he said , leading him clear of the shafts . 
'Now we'll tie you up here and I'll put down some straw and take off your bridle . 
When you've had a bite you'll feel more cheerful . 
But Mukhorty was restless and evidently not comforted by Nikita's remarks . 
He stepped now on one foot and now on another , and pressed close against the sledge , turning his back to the wind and rubbing his head on Nikita's sleeve . 
'There now , when the snow covers us up , good folk will see the shafts and dig us out , he said , slapping his mittens together and putting them on . 
But his hands trembled , and one match after another either did not kindle or was blown out by the wind just as he was lifting it to the cigarette . 
But even these few puffs had cheered him . 
'If we must spend the night here , we must ! he said with decision . 
The kerchief immediately began to flutter wildly , now clinging round the shaft , now suddenly streaming out , stretching and flapping . 
'Just see what a fine flag ! said Vasili Andreevich , admiring his handiwork and letting himself down into the sledge . 
'We should be warmer together , but there's not room enough for two , he added . 
'I'll find a place , said Nikita . 
'But I must cover up the horse first he sweated so , poor thing . 
Let go ! he added , drawing the drugget from under Vasili Andreevich . 
Having got the drugget he folded it in two , and after taking off the breechband and pad , covered Mukhorty with it . 
'Anyhow it will be warmer , silly ! he said , putting back the breechband and the pad on the horse over the drugget . 
Then having finished that business he returned to the sledge , and addressing Vasili Andreevich , said 'You won't need the sackcloth , will you ? And let me have some straw . 
He smoothed the remaining straw over the bottom of the sledge , putting more of it under his side . 
Then he thrust his hands into his sleeves and settled down , sheltering his head in the corner of the sledge from the wind in front . 
He did not wish to sleep . 
The purchase of the Goryachkin grove was a matter of immense importance to him . 
By that one deal he hoped to make perhaps ten thousand rubles . 
He began mentally to reckon the value of the wood he had inspected in autumn , and on five acres of which he had counted all the trees . 
'The oaks will go for sledge runners . 
The undergrowth will take care of itself , and there'll still be some thirty sazheens of fire wood left on each desyatin , said he to himself . 
'That means there will be at least two hundred and twenty five rubles' worth left on each desyatin . 
Fifty six desyatiins means fifty six hundreds , and fifty six hundreds , and fifty six tens , and another fifty six tens , and then fifty six fives . 
He saw that it came out to more than twelve thousand rubles , but could not reckon it up exactly without a counting frame . 
'But I won't give ten thousand , anyhow . 
I'll give about eight thousand with a deduction on account of the glades . 
I'll grease the surveyor's palm give him a hundred rubles , or a hundred and fifty , and he'll reckon that there are some five desyatins of glade to be deducted . 
And he'll let it go for eight thousand . 
That'll move him , no fear ! he thought , and he pressed his pocket book with his forearm . 
'God only knows how we missed the turning . 
The forest ought to be there , and a watchman's hut , and dogs barking . 
But the damned things don't bark when they're wanted . 
He again covered up his ear . 
'If I had known I would have stayed the night . 
Well , no matter , we'll get there to morrow . 
It's only one day lost . 
And the others won't travel in such weather . 
Then he remembered that on the th he had to receive payment from the butcher for his oxen . 
'He meant to come himself , but he won't find me , and my wife won't know how to receive the money . 
'Not as it was in Father's time ! Who is talked of in the whole district now ? Brekhunov ! And why ? Because I stick to business . 
I take trouble , not like others who lie abed or waste their time on foolishness while I don't sleep of nights . 
Blizzard or no blizzard I start out . 
They think money making is a joke . 
'They think people get on through luck . 
After all , the Mironovs are now millionaires . 
And why ? Take pains and God gives . 
But there was no one to talk to . 
If only he could have reached Goryachkin he would have talked to the landlord and shown him a thing or two . 
He raised himself and looked round . 
'A pity I listened to Nikita , he thought . 
'We ought to have driven on . 
We should have come out somewhere , if only back to Grishkino and stayed the night at Taras's . 
As it is we must sit here all night . 
But what was I thinking about ? Yes , that God gives to those who take trouble , but not to loafers , lie abeds , or fools . 
But the wind found its way in and put out match after match . 
At last he got one to burn and lit a cigarette . 
He again leant back , wrapped himself up , started reflecting and remembering , and suddenly and quite unexpectedly lost consciousness and fell asleep . 
Suddenly something seemed to give him a push and awoke him . 
Everything around him was just as before . 
'It looks lighter , he thought . 
'I expect it won't be long before dawn . 
But he at once remembered that it was lighter because the moon had risen . 
He sat up and looked first at the horse . 
Mukhorty still stood with his back to the wind , shivering all over . 
Vasili Andreevich leant over the back of the sledge and looked behind . 
Nikita still sat in the same position in which he had settled himself . 
The sacking with which he was covered , and his legs , were thickly covered with snow . 
'If only that peasant doesn't freeze to death ! His clothes are so wretched . 
I may be held responsible for him . 
'My uncle once spent a whole night like this , he reflected , 'and was all right . 
But another case came at once to his mind . 
'But when they dug Sebastian out he was dead stiff like a frozen carcass . 
But try as he would he could not get drowsy , on the contrary he felt wide awake and animated . 
He again sat up , turned about , muffled himself up , and settled down once more . 
Once he fancied that he heard a distant cock crow . 
Nikita sat just as he had done all the time , not moving and not even answering Vasili Andreevich who had addressed him a couple of times . 
'He doesn't care a bit he's probably asleep ! thought Vasili Andreevich with vexation , looking behind the sledge at Nikita who was covered with a thick layer of snow . 
Vasili Andreevich got up and lay down again some twenty times . 
It seemed to him that the night would never end . 
'It must be getting near morning , he thought , getting up and looking around . 
'Let's have a look at my watch . 
It will be cold to unbutton , but if I only know that it's getting near morning I shall at any rate feel more cheerful . 
He carefully undid the fastening of his sheepskin , pushed in his hand , and felt about for a long time before he got to his waistcoat . 
With great difficulty he managed to draw out his silver watch with its enamelled flower design , and tried to make out the time . 
He could not see anything without a light . 
Again he went down on his knees and elbows as he had done when he lighted a cigarette , got out his matches , and proceeded to strike one . 
Bringing the face of the watch under the light he could hardly believe his eyes . 
It was only ten minutes past twelve . 
Almost the whole night was still before him . 
Suddenly , above the monotonous roar of the wind , he clearly distinguished another new and living sound . 
It steadily strengthened , and having become quite clear diminished just as gradually . 
Beyond all doubt it was a wolf , and he was so near that the movement of his jaws as he changed his cry was brought down the wind . 
Vasili Andreevich turned back the collar of his coat and listened attentively . 
Mukhorty too strained to listen , moving his ears , and when the wolf had ceased its howling he shifted from foot to foot and gave a warning snort . 
After this Vasili Andreevich could not fall asleep again or even calm himself . 
'Devil take the forest ! Things were all right without it , thank God . 
Ah , if we had only put up for the night ! he said to himself . 
'They say it's drunkards that freeze , he thought , 'and I have had some drink . 
And observing his sensations he noticed that he was beginning to shiver , without knowing whether it was from cold or from fear . 
He tried to wrap himself up and lie down as before , but could no longer do so . 
He could not stay in one position . 
He wanted to get up , to do something to master the gathering fear that was rising in him and against which he felt himself powerless . 
He again got out his cigarettes and matches , but only three matches were left and they were bad ones . 
The phosphorus rubbed off them all without lighting . 
'The devil take you ! Damned thing ! Curse you ! he muttered , not knowing whom or what he was cursing , and he flung away the crushed cigarette . 
He was about to throw away the matchbox too , but checked the movement of his hand and put the box in his pocket instead . 
He was seized with such unrest that he could no longer remain in one spot . 
He climbed out of the sledge and standing with his back to the wind began to shift his belt again , fastening it lower down in the waist and tightening it . 
'What's the use of lying and waiting for death ? Better mount the horse and get away ! The thought suddenly occurred to him . 
'The horse will move when he has someone on his back . 
As for him , he thought of Nikita 'it's all the same to him whether he lives or dies . 
What is his life worth ? He won't grudge his life , but I have something to live for , thank God . 
He untied the horse , threw the reins over his neck and tried to mount , but his coats and boots were so heavy that he failed . 
Then he clambered up in the sledge and tried to mount from there , but the sledge tilted under his weight , and he failed again . 
At last he drew Mukhorty nearer to the sledge , cautiously balanced on one side of it , and managed to lie on his stomach across the horse's back . 
After lying like that for a while he shifted forward once and again , threw a leg over , and finally seated himself , supporting his feet on the loose breeching straps . 
The shaking of the sledge awoke Nikita . 
He raised himself , and it seemed to Vasili Andreevich that he said something . 
'Listen to such fools as you ! Am I to die like this for nothing ? exclaimed Vasili Andreevich . 
VII From the time he had covered himself with the sackcloth and seated himself behind the sledge , Nikita had not stirred . 
Like all those who live in touch with nature and have known want , he was patient and could wait for hours , even days , without growing restless or irritable . 
He heard his master call him , but did not answer because he did not want to move or talk . 
The foot in the boot with a hole in it had already grown numb , and he could no longer feel his big toe . 
Besides that , his whole body began to feel colder and colder . 
The thought that he might , and very probably would , die that night occurred to him , but did not seem particularly unpleasant or dreadful . 
'It seems a pity to give up what one is used to and accustomed to . 
But there's nothing to be done , I shall get used to the new things . 
'Of course they are sins . 
But then , did I take them on of myself ? That's evidently how God made me . 
'I expect you're sorry yourself that you started out , dear man , he thought . 
'It would seem hard to leave a life such as his ! It's not like the likes of us . 
Then all these recollections began to grow confused and got mixed in his head , and he fell asleep . 
Straightening his legs with difficulty and shaking the snow off them he got up , and an agonizing cold immediately penetrated his whole body . 
On making out what was happening he called to Vasili Andreevich to leave him the drugget which the horse no longer needed , so that he might wrap himself in it . 
But Vasili Andreevich did not stop , but disappeared amid the powdery snow . 
Left alone Nikita considered for a moment what he should do . 
He felt that he had not the strength to go off in search of a house . 
It was no longer possible to sit down in his old place it was by now all filled with snow . 
He felt that he could not get warmer in the sledge either , for there was nothing to cover himself with , and his coat and sheepskin no longer warmed him at all . 
He felt as cold as though he had nothing on but a shirt . 
'Lord , heavenly Father ! he muttered , and was comforted by the consciousness that he was not alone but that there was One who heard him and would not abandon him . 
He gave a deep sigh , and keeping the sackcloth over his head he got inside the sledge and lay down in the place where his master had been . 
But he could not get warm in the sledge either . 
At first he shivered all over , then the shivering ceased and little by little he began to lose consciousness . 
He did not know whether he was dying or falling asleep , but felt equally prepared for the one as for the other . 
Mukhorty ambled on obediently though with difficulty , in the direction in which he was driven . 
Suddenly a dark patch showed up in front of him . 
His heart beat with joy , and he rode towards the object , already seeing in imagination the walls of village houses . 
But the horse kept making towards the right , and Vasili Andreevich kept guiding it to the left . 
Again something dark appeared in front of him . 
Again he rejoiced , convinced that now it was certainly a village . 
But once more it was the same boundary line overgrown with wormwood , once more the same wormwood desperately tossed by the wind and carrying unreasoning terror to his heart . 
But its being the same wormwood was not all , for beside is there was a horse's track partly snowed over . 
Vasili Andreevich stopped , stooped down and looked carefully . 
It was a horse track only partially covered with snow , and could be none but his own horse's hoofprints . 
He had evidently gone round in a small circle . 
Suddenly some terrible , deafening cry resounded near his ears , and everything shivered and shook under him . 
He seized Mukhorty's neck , but that too was shaking all over and the terrible cry grew still more frightful . 
For some seconds Vasili Andreevich could not collect himself or understand what was happening . 
It was only that Mukhorty , whether to encourage himself or to call for help , had neighed loudly and resonantly . 
'Ugh , you wretch ! How you frightened me , damn you ! thought Vasili Andreevich . 
But even when he understood the cause of his terror he could not shake it off . 
His legs and arms trembled and his breathing came fast . 
He saw himself perishing amid this dreadful snowy waste , and could see no means of escape . 
Suddenly the horse under him tumbled into something and , sinking into a snow drift , began to plunge and fell on his side . 
'The copse , the oxen , the lease hold , the shop , the tavern , the house with the iron roofed barn , and my heir , thought he . 
'How can I leave all that ? What does this mean ? It cannot be ! These thoughts flashed through his mind . 
'Can this be a dream ? he thought , and tried to wake up but could not . 
He began to pray to that same Nicholas the Wonder Worker to save him , promising him a thanksgiving service and some candles . 
'I must not despair , he thought . 
'I must follow the horse's track before it is snowed under . 
He will lead me out , or I may even catch him . 
Only I must not hurry , or I shall stick fast and be more lost than ever . 
But in spite of his resolution to go quietly , he rushed forward and even ran , continually falling , getting up and falling again . 
The horse's track was already hardly visible in places where the snow did not lie deep . 
'I am lost ! thought Vasili Andreevich . 
'I shall lose the track and not catch the horse . 
But at that moment he saw something black . 
It was Mukhorty , and not only Mukhorty , but the sledge with the shafts and the kerchief . 
IX Having stumbled back to the sledge Vasili Andreevich caught hold of it and for a long time stood motionless , trying to calm himself and recover his breath . 
Nikita was not in his former place , but something , already covered with snow , was lying in the sledge and Vasili Andreevich concluded that this was Nikita . 
At any cost he had to avoid that terror , and to keep it away he must do something occupy himself with something . 
And the first thing he did was to turn his back to the wind and open his fur coat . 
then as was his custom when going out of his shop to buy grain from the peasants , he pulled his girdle low down and tightened it and prepared for action . 
The first thing that occurred to him was to free Mukhorty's leg from the rein . 
Nikita , who was half frozen , rose with great difficulty and sat up , moving his hand before his nose in a strange manner just as if he were driving away flies . 
He waved his hand and said something , and seemed to Vasili Andreevich to be calling him . 
Vasili Andreevich left the cloth unadjusted and went up to the sledge . 
'What is it ? he asked . 
'What are you saying ? 'I'm dy . 
ing , that's what , said Nikita brokenly and with difficulty . 
'Give what is owing to me to my lad , or to my wife , no matter . 
'Why , are you really frozen ? asked Vasili Andreevich . 
'I feel it's my death . 
Forgive me for Christ's sake . 
said Nikita in a tearful voice , continuing to wave his hand before his face as if driving away flies . 
Vasili Andreevich stood silent and motionless for half a minute . 
Here he no longer heard the horse's movements or the whistling of the wind , but only Nikita's breathing . 
At first and for a long time Nikita lay motionless , then he sighed deeply and moved . 
'There , and you say you are dying ! Lie still and get warm , that's our way . 
But to his great surprise he could say no more , for tears came to his eyes and his lower jaw began to quiver rapidly . 
He stopped speaking and only gulped down the risings in his throat . 
'Seems I was badly frightened and have gone quite weak , he thought . 
But this weakness was not only unpleasant , but gave him a peculiar joy such as he had never felt before . 
'That's our way ! he said to himself , experiencing a strange and solemn tenderness . 
He lay like that for a long time , wiping his eyes on the fur of his coat and tucking under his knee the right skirt , which the wind kept turning up . 
But he longed so passionately to tell somebody of his joyful condition that he said 'Nikita ! 'It's comfortable , warm ! came a voice from beneath . 
'There , you see , friend , I was going to perish . 
And you would have been frozen , and I should have . 
But again his jaws began to quiver and his eyes to fill with tears , and he could say no more . 
'Well , never mind , he thought . 
'I know about myself what I know . 
He remained silent and lay like that for a long time . 
Nikita kept him warm from below and his fur coats from above . 
But he did not think of his legs or of his hands but only of how to warm the peasant who was lying under him . 
He no longer felt any kind of terror . 
Vasili Andreevich lay in that way for one hour , another , and a third , but he was unconscious of the passage of time . 
Afterwards all these impressions blended into one nothingness . 
As the colours of the rainbow unite into one white light , so all these different impressions mingled into one , and he fell asleep . 
For a long time he slept without dreaming , but just before dawn the visions recommenced . 
It seemed to him that he was standing by the box of tapers and that Tikhon's wife was asking for a five kopek taper for the Church fete . 
He wished to take one out and give it to her , but his hands would not life , being held tight in his pockets . 
Then the taper box was no longer a box but a bed , and suddenly Vasili Andreevich saw himself lying in his bed at home . 
He was lying in his bed and could not get up . 
He asked his wife 'Nikolaevna , hasn't he come yet ? 'No , he hasn't , she replied . 
He heard someone drive up to the front steps . 
'No , he's gone past . 
'Nikolaevna ! I say , Nikolaevna , isn't he here yet ? 'No . 
He was still lying on his bed and could not get up , but was always waiting . 
And this waiting was uncanny and yet joyful . 
Then suddenly his joy was completed . 
He whom he was expecting came not Ivan Matveich the police officer , but someone else yet it was he whom he had been waiting for . 
He came and called him and it was he who had called him and told him to lie down on Nikita . 
And Vasili Andreevich was glad that that one had come for him . 
'I'm coming ! he cried joyfully , and that cry awoke him , but woke him up not at all the same person he had been when he fell asleep . 
He was surprised but not at all disturbed by this . 
He understood that this was death , and was not at all disturbed by that either . 
He strained his ears and heard Nikita breathing and even slightly snoring . 
'Nikita is alive , so I too am alive ! he said to himself triumphantly . 
'Well , it was because he did not know what the real thing was , he thought , concerning that Vasili Brekhunov . 
'He did not know , but now I know and know for sure . 
Now I know ! And again he heard the voice of the one who had called him before . 
'I'm coming ! Coming ! he responded gladly , and his whole being was filled with joyful emotion . 
He felt himself free and that nothing could hold him back any longer . 
After that Vasili Andreevich neither saw , heard , nor felt anything more in this world . 
All around the snow still eddied . 
X Nikita awoke before daybreak . 
He was aroused by the cold that had begun to creep down his back . 
He had dreamt that he was coming from the mill with a load of his master's flour and when crossing the stream had missed the bridge and let the cart get stuck . 
And he saw that he had crawled under the cart and was trying to lift it by arching his back . 
But strange to say the cart did not move , it stuck to his back and he could neither lift it nor get out from under it . 
It was crushing the whole of his loins . 
And how cold it felt ! Evidently he must crawl out . 
'Have done ! he exclaimed to whoever was pressing the cart down on him . 
'Take out the sacks ! But the cart pressed down colder and colder , and then he heard a strange knocking , awoke completely , and remembered everything . 
The cold cart was his dead and frozen master lying upon him . 
And the knock was produced by Mukhorty , who had twice struck the sledge with his hoof . 
'Andreevich ! Eh , Andreevich ! Nikita called cautiously , beginning to realize the truth , and straightening his back . 
But Vasili Andreevich did not answer and his stomach and legs were stiff and cold and heavy like iron weights . 
'He must have died ! May the Kingdom of Heaven be his ! thought Nikita . 
He turned his head , dug with his hand through the snow about him and opened his eyes . 
'O Lord God , it seems Thou art calling me too ! said Nikita . 
'Thy Holy Will be done . 
Still , a man can't die twice and must die once . 
If only it would come soon ! And he again drew in his head , closed his eyes , and became unconscious , fully convinced that now he was certainly and finally dying . 
The snow had hidden the sledge , but the shafts and the kerchief tied to them were still visible . 
Vasili Andreevich was stiff as a frozen carcass , and when they rolled him off Nikita his legs remained apart and his arms stretched out as they had been . 
His bulging hawk eyes were frozen , and his open mouth under his clipped moustache was full of snow . 
But Nikita though chilled through was still alive . 
Nikita lay in hospital for two months . 
He died at home as he had wished , only this year , under the icons with a lighted taper in his hands . 
Before he died he asked his wife's forgiveness and forgave her for the cooper . 
Whether he is better or worse off there where he awoke after his death , whether he was disappointed or found there what he expected , we shall all soon learn . 
