The Merry Men Robert Louis Stevenson . 
edition Scanned and proofed by David Price , ccx coventry . 
uk Contents The Merry Men i . 
What the wreck had brought to Aros iii . 
Land and sea in Sandag Bay iv . 
A man out of the sea Will o' the Mill i . 
The plain and the stars ii . 
Death Markheim Thrawn Janet Olalla The Treasure of Franchard i . 
By the dying Mountebank ii . 
The education of the philosopher v . 
A criminal investigation , in two parts vii . 
The fall of the House of Desprez viii . 
The wages of philosophy THE MERRY MEN CHAPTER I. EILEAN AROS . 
IT WAS a beautiful morning in the late July when I set forth on foot for the last time for Aros . 
I was far from being a native of these parts , springing , as I did , from an unmixed lowland stock . 
Years passed over his head in that isolation , and brought neither help nor contentment . 
THE MOUNTAIN OF THE MIST , they say the words signify in the Gaelic tongue and it is well named . 
to the top in consequence . 
I have seen us sitting in broad sunshine on the Ross , and the rain falling black like crape upon the mountain . 
The road that I followed was a cattle track . 
There was no cultivation anywhere , and not one house in the ten miles from Grisapol to Aros . 
Houses of course there were three at least but they lay so far on the one side or the other that no stranger could have found them from the track . 
The house was a good one for that country , two storeys high . 
It looked westward over a bay , with a pier hard by for a boat , and from the door you could watch the vapours blowing on Ben Kyaw . 
Off the south west end of Aros these blocks are very many , and much greater in size . 
You can hear the roaring of it six miles away . 
I have heard it said that they run fifty feet high but that must be the green water only , for the spray runs twice as high as that . 
The truth is , that in a south westerly wind , that part of our archipelago is no better than a trap . 
There was some tale of an unlucky creature , a sea kelpie , that dwelt and did business in some fearful manner of his own among the boiling breakers of the Roost . 
Seals that haunted on that coast have been known to speak to man in his own tongue , presaging great disasters . 
It was here that a certain saint first landed on his voyage out of Ireland to convert the Hebrideans . 
It was to him , or to some of his monkish underlings who had a cell there , that the islet owes its holy and beautiful name , the House of God . 
Among these old wives' stories there was one which I was inclined to hear with more credulity . 
There was some likelihood in this tale for another of that fleet lay sunk on the north side , twenty miles from Grisapol . 
And now I must tell you , as I walked from Grisapol that day , the ESPIRITO SANTO was very much in my reflections . 
I had been favourably remarked by our then Principal in Edinburgh College , that famous writer , Dr . 
This was a design of which I soon had reason to repent . 
My mind was sharply turned on different reflections and since I became the witness of a strange judgment of God's , the thought of dead men's treasures has been intolerable to my conscience . 
She had been educated well , and had been a time to school upon the mainland which , poor girl , she would have been happier without . 
WHAT THE WRECK HAD BROUGHT TO AROS . 
IT was half flood when I got the length of Aros and there was nothing for it but to stand on the far shore and whistle for Rorie with the boat . 
I had no need to repeat the signal . 
At the first sound , Mary was at the door flying a handkerchief by way of answer , and the old long legged serving man was shambling down the gravel to the pier . 
As he came nearer , he seemed to me aged and haggard , and I thought he avoided my eye . 
The coble had been repaired , with two new thwarts and several patches of some rare and beautiful foreign wood , the name of it unknown to me . 
'Why , Rorie , said I , as we began the return voyage , 'this is fine wood . 
'What is wrong ? I asked , a good deal startled . 
In spite of myself , I was infected with a measure of uneasiness I turned also , and studied the wake . 
The water was still and transparent , but , out here in the middle of the bay , exceeding deep . 
'He will be waiting for the right man , said Rorie . 
Mary met me on the beach , and led me up the brae and into the house of Aros . 
Outside and inside there were many changes . 
In view of the errand I had come upon to Aros , the feeling was baseless and unjust but it burned high , at the first moment , in my heart . 
'Mary , girl , said I , 'this is the place I had learned to call my home , and I do not know it . 
I would have liked better , under God's pleasure , they had gone down into the sea , and the Merry Men were dancing on them now . 
Mary was always serious it was perhaps the only trait that she shared with her father but the tone with which she uttered these words was even graver than of custom . 
'Ay , said I , 'I feared it came by wreck , and that's by death yet when my father died , I took his goods without remorse . 
'Your father died a clean strae death , as the folk say , said Mary . 
'True , I returned 'and a wreck is like a judgment . 
What was she called ? 'They ca'd her the CHRIST ANNA , said a voice behind me and , turning round , I saw my uncle standing in the doorway . 
But he never got much comfort , nor even , as I used to think , much guidance , by his piety . 
'Ay' he repeated , dwelling upon the first part of the word , 'the CHRIST ANNA . 
I made him my salutations , and complimented him upon his look of health for I feared he had perhaps been ill . 
'I'm in the body , he replied , ungraciously enough 'aye in the body and the sins of the body , like yoursel' . 
, but it'll no gang and the napery's by ordnar . 
But my uncle was not to be turned from his idea . 
them while we may , he said and so two massive candlesticks of wrought silver were added to the table equipage , already so unsuited to that rough sea side farm . 
'She cam' ashore Februar' , about ten at nicht , he went on to me . 
'There was nae wind , and a sair run o' sea and she was in the sook o' the Roost , as I jaloose . 
We had seen her a' day , Rorie and me , beating to the wind . 
She wasnae a handy craft , I'm thinking , that CHRIST ANNA for she would neither steer nor stey wi' them . 
Eh , man ! but they had a sair day for the last o't ! He would have had a prood , prood heart that won ashore upon the back o' that . 
'And were all lost ? I cried . 
'God held them ! 'Wheesht ! he said sternly . 
'Nane shall pray for the deid on my hearth stane . 
I disclaimed a Popish sense for my ejaculation and he seemed to accept my disclaimer with unusual facility , and ran on once more upon what had evidently become a favourite subject . 
'We fand her in Sandag Bay , Rorie an' me , and a' thae braws in the inside of her . 
Weel , there's the thing that got the grip on the CHRIST ANNA . 
She but to have come in ram stam an' stern forrit for the bows of her are aften under , and the back side of her is clear at hie water o' neaps . 
Mony's the gliff I got mysel' in the great deep and why the Lord should hae made yon unco water is mair than ever I could win to understand . 
No that I would preen my faith to that clink neither but it's bonny , and easier to mind . 
Who go to sea in ships , they hae't again And in Great waters trading be , Within the deep these men God's works And His great wonders see . 
Weel , it's easy sayin' sae . 
Maybe Dauvit wasnae very weel acquant wi' the sea . 
There's naething good comes oot o't but the fish an' the spentacle o' God riding on the tempest , to be shure , whilk would be what Dauvit was likely ettling at . 
Even the entrance of Rorie , and the beginning of our meal , did not detach him from his train of thought beyond a moment . 
Soon there came an interchange of speeches between him and Rorie . 
'Was it there ? asked my uncle . 
'Ou , ay ! said Rorie . 
I observed that they both spoke in a manner of aside , and with some show of embarrassment , and that Mary herself appeared to colour , and looked down on her plate . 
Partly to show my knowledge , and so relieve the party from an awkward strain , partly because I was curious , I pursued the subject . 
'You mean the fish ? I asked . 
'Whatten fish ? cried my uncle . 
'Fish , quo' he ! Fish ! Your een are fu' o' fatness , man your heid dozened wi' carnal leir . 
At least I remember I retorted hotly , crying out upon childish superstitions . 
'And ye come frae the College ! sneered Uncle Gordon . 
'Gude kens what they learn folk there it's no muckle service onyway . 
If there's folk ashore , there's folk in the sea deid they may be , but they're folk whatever and as for deils , there's nane that's like the sea deils . 
There's no sae muckle harm in the land deils , when a's said and done . 
Lang syne , when I was a callant in the south country , I mind there was an auld , bald bogle in the Peewie Moss . 
I got a glisk o' him mysel' , sittin' on his hunkers in a hag , as gray's a tombstane . 
An' , troth , he was a fearsome like taed . 
If ye had sailed it for as lang as me , ye would hate the thocht of it as I do . 
But Rorie , who was greedy of superstitious lore , recalled him to the subject by a question . 
'You will not ever have seen a teevil of the sea ? he asked . 
'No clearly , replied the other . 
'I misdoobt if a mere man could see ane clearly and conteenue in the body . 
I hae sailed wi' a lad they ca'd him Sandy Gabart he saw ane , shure eneueh , an' shure eneueh it was the end of him . 
We were seeven days oot frae the Clyde a sair wark we had had gaun north wi' seeds an' braws an' things for the Macleod . 
Weel , Sandy was forrit wi' the jib sheet we couldnae see him for the mains'l , that had just begude to draw , when a' at ance he gied a skirl . 
'It will have been a merman , Rorie said . 
'A merman ! screamed my uncle with immeasurable scorn . 
'Auld wives' clavers ! There's nae sic things as mermen . 
'But what was the creature like ? I asked . 
'What like was it ? Gude forbid that we suld ken what like it was ! It had a kind of a heid upon it man could say nae mair . 
'Aweel , aweel , he said , 'it may be sae I may be wrang but I find nae word o' mermen in the Scriptures . 
'And you will find nae word of Aros Roost , maybe , objected Rorie , and his argument appeared to carry weight . 
When dinner was over , my uncle carried me forth with him to a bank behind the house . 
He spoke evenly and almost cheerfully of my career , with every now and then a reference to the lost ship or the treasures it had brought to Aros . 
Now I should say that the great run of tide at the south west end of Aros exercises a perturbing influence round all the coast . 
It was to these marks that my uncle now directed my attention , struggling , as he did so , with an evident reluctance . 
'I have often remarked it . 
It is like a C. He heaved a sigh as if heavily disappointed with my answer , and then added below his breath 'Ay , for the CHRIST ANNA . 
'I used to suppose , sir , it was for myself , said I 'for my name is Charles . 
'And so ye saw't afore ? , he ran on , not heeding my remark . 
'Weel , weel , but that's unco strange . 
Maybe , it's been there waitin' , as a man wad say , through a' the weary ages . 
Man , but that's awfu' . 
And then , breaking off 'Ye'll no see anither , will ye ? he asked . 
But we were each following his own train of thought to the exclusion of the other's . 
'I would say naething o' thae clavers to Mary , he observed , and began to walk forward . 
There is a belt of turf along the side of Aros Bay , where walking is easy and it was along this that I silently followed my silent kinsman . 
There my guide came to a halt , and stood staring for awhile on that expanse . 
Then he turned to me and laid a hand on my arm . 
I was eager to be alone with Mary yet it was not till after supper , and then but for a short while , that I could have a word with her . 
I lost no time beating about the bush , but spoke out plainly what was on my mind . 
'Mary , I said , 'I have not come to Aros without a hope . 
But there's a hope that lies nearer to my heart than money . 
And at that I paused . 
'You can guess fine what that is , Mary , I said . 
She looked away from me in silence , and that was small encouragement , but I was not to be put off . 
Still she looked away , and said never a word but I thought I saw that her hands shook . 
She knew nothing of the wreck . 
'I havenae been near it , said she . 
It was towards the end of April that I had been given these papers to sort out by Dr . 
Putting one thing with another , I fancied that the visitor 'with the gold rings upon his fingers' might be the same with Dr . 
If that were so , he would be more likely after treasure for himself than information for a learned society . 
LAND AND SEA IN SANDAG BAY . 
I WAS early afoot next morning and as soon as I had a bite to eat , set forth upon a tour of exploration . 
Upon the summit , I paused . 
Although not very high not three hundred feet , as I think it yet outtops all the neighbouring lowlands of the Ross , and commands a great view of sea and islands . 
There was a threat in the weather . 
I hurried on , then , with the greater speed , and had soon descended the slope of Aros to the part that we call Sandag Bay . 
Nothing is to be seen out of Sandag Bay , but one small segment of the horizon and , in heavy weather , the breakers flying high over a deep sea reef . 
I stopped like a man shot . 
Certainly it was with a spirit somewhat over shadowed that I turned away from the grave to the hardly less melancholy spectacle of the wreck . 
By her build she was a foreign ship , but I was not certain of her nationality . 
She had been painted green , but the colour was faded and weathered , and the paint peeling off in strips . 
The wreck of the mainmast lay alongside , half buried in sand . 
The homelessness of men and even of inanimate vessels , cast away upon strange shores , came strongly in upon my mind . 
To make a profit of such pitiful misadventures seemed an unmanly and a sordid act and I began to think of my then quest as of something sacrilegious in its nature . 
But when I remembered Mary , I took heart again . 
My uncle would never consent to an imprudent marriage , nor would she , as I was persuaded , wed without his full approval . 
I had my theory of where to seek for her remains . 
The set of the current and the soundings both pointed to the east side of the bay under the ledge of rocks . 
If she had been lost in Sandag Bay , and if , after these centuries , any portion of her held together , it was there that I should find it . 
The water deepens , as I have said , with great rapidity , and even close along side the rocks several fathoms may be found . 
It was above all in this belt of shadows that I hunted for the ESPIRITO SANTO since it was there the undertow ran strongest , whether in or out . 
Cool as the whole water seemed this broiling day , it looked , in that part , yet cooler , and had a mysterious invitation for the eyes . 
It was one mass of great sea tangles like a grove , which prevented me judging of its nature , but in shape and size it bore some likeness to a vessel's hull . 
At least it was my best chance . 
I stripped to the skin , and stood on the extreme margin with my hands clasped , irresolute . 
Sad sea feelings , scraps of my uncle's superstitions , thoughts of the dead , of the grave , of the old broken ships , drifted through my mind . 
But the strong sun upon my shoulders warmed me to the heart , and I stooped forward and plunged into the sea . 
I clambered back upon the rocks , and threw the plant of tangle at my feet . 
Something at the same moment rang sharply , like a falling coin . 
I stooped , and there , sure enough , crusted with the red rust , there lay an iron shoe buckle . 
The sight of this poor human relic thrilled me to the heart , but not with hope nor fear , only with a desolate melancholy . 
I held it in my hand , and the thought of its owner appeared before me like the presence of an actual man . 
A great change passed at that moment over the appearance of the bay . 
It was no more that clear , visible interior , like a house roofed with glass , where the green , submarine sunshine slept so stilly . 
A breeze , I suppose , had flawed the surface , and a sort of trouble and blackness filled its bosom , where flashes of light and clouds of shadow tossed confusedly together . 
Even the terrace below obscurely rocked and quivered . 
It seemed a graver thing to venture on this place of ambushes and when I leaped into the sea the second time it was with a quaking in my soul . 
I secured myself as at first , and groped among the waving tangle . 
All that met my touch was cold and soft and gluey . 
The thicket was alive with crabs and lobsters , trundling to and fro lopsidedly , and I had to harden my heart against the horror of their carrion neighbourhood . 
I had already stayed somewhat late over my explorations the current was freshening with the change of the tide , and Sandag Bay was no longer a safe place for a single swimmer . 
Well , just at the last moment there came a sudden flush of current , dredging through the tangles like a wave . 
I lost one hold , was flung sprawling on my side , and , instinctively grasping for a fresh support , my fingers closed on something hard and cold . 
I think I knew at that moment what it was . 
Mankind is a material creature , slow to think and dull to perceive connections . 
The grave , the wreck of the brig , and the rusty shoe buckle were surely plain advertisements . 
I laid the bone beside the buckle , picked up my clothes , and ran as I was along the rocks towards the human shore . 
I could not be far enough from the spot no fortune was vast enough to tempt me back again . 
The bones of the drowned dead should henceforth roll undisturbed by me , whether on tangle or minted gold . 
A generous prayer is never presented in vain the petition may be refused , but the petitioner is always , I believe , rewarded by some gracious visitation . 
I was already some way up the hill before I paused to breathe and look behind me . 
The sight that met my eyes was doubly strange . 
For , first , the storm that I had foreseen was now advancing with almost tropical rapidity . 
The change upon the sky was even more remarkable . 
The menace was express and imminent . 
Even as I gazed , the sun was blotted out . 
At any moment the tempest might fall upon Aros in its might . 
It was a scene on which I had often looked down , but where I had never before beheld a human figure . 
I had but just turned my back upon it and left it empty , and my wonder may be fancied when I saw a boat and several men in that deserted spot . 
The boat was lying by the rocks . 
Meanwhile a third was walking to and fro , polling among the rocks and peering over the edge into the water . 
Just then I could hear the seamen crying from the boat , and saw them point westward to that cloud continent which was ever the more rapidly unfurling its blackness over heaven . 
I made no more ado about the matter , but turned and ran for the house . 
Whoever these men were , it was fit my uncle should be instantly informed . 
Yet as I ran , leaping from rock to rock , and turned the matter loosely in my mind , this theory grew ever the longer the less welcome to my reason . 
The Madrid historian , the search instituted by Dr . 
I was still wondering how we were to get rid of them when I came , all breathless , to the top of Aros . 
With such ignorant sailors upon so wild a coast , the coming gale was not unlikely to bring death upon its wings . 
I FOUND my uncle at the gable end , watching the signs of the weather , with a pipe in his fingers . 
He dropped his pipe and fell back against the end of the house with his jaw fallen , his eyes staring , and his long face as white as paper . 
For the first and only time I lost toleration for the man who was my benefactor and the father of the woman I hoped to call my wife . 
As for your own guilty terrors , man , the dead sleeps well where you have laid him . 
I stood this morning by his grave he will not wake before the trump of doom . 
'Come , said I. 'You must think for others . 
You must come up the hill with me , and see this ship . 
He obeyed without a word or a look , following slowly after my impatient strides . 
Nor could I , for all my cries , induce him to make better haste . 
Only once he replied to me complainingly , and like one in bodily pain 'Ay , ay , man , I'm coming . 
Long before we had reached the top , I had no other thought for him but pity . 
If the crime had been monstrous the punishment was in proportion . 
At last we emerged above the sky line of the hill , and could see around us . 
I looked , at first , in vain for the schooner . 
'There she is , I said at last . 
But her new position , and the course she was now lying , puzzled me . 
'They cannot mean to beat to sea , I cried . 
These strangers , seeing a gale on hand , had thought first of sea room . 
With the wind that threatened , in these reef sown waters and contending against so violent a stream of tide , their course was certain death . 
'Good God ! said I , 'they are all lost . 
'Ay , returned my uncle , 'a' a' lost . 
They hadnae a chance but to rin for Kyle Dona . 
The gate they're gaun the noo , they couldnae win through an the muckle deil were there to pilot them . 
He was peering up to me , as if for sympathy , a timid joy in his eyes . 
All that had passed between us was already forgotten in the prospect of this fresh disaster . 
'If it were not too late , I cried with indignation , 'I would take the coble and go out to warn them . 
'Na , na , he protested , 'ye maunnae interfere ye maunnae meddle wi' the like o' that . 
It's His' doffing his bonnet 'His wull . 
But no nothing would tear him from his place of outlook . 
'The CHRIST ANNA was naething to this . 
Already the men on board the schooner must have begun to realise some part , but not yet the twentieth , of the dangers that environed their doomed ship . 
At every lull of the capricious wind they must have seen how fast the current swept them back . 
Each tack was made shorter , as they saw how little it prevailed . 
I tell you , they had to stand to their tackle there was no idle men aboard that ship , God knows . 
It was upon the progress of a scene so horrible to any human hearted man that my misguided uncle now pored and gloated like a connoisseur . 
As I turned to go down the hill , he was lying on his belly on the summit , with his hands stretched forth and clutching in the heather . 
He seemed rejuvenated , mind and body . 
When I got back to the house already dismally affected , I was still more sadly downcast at the sight of Mary . 
She had her sleeves rolled up over her strong arms , and was quietly making bread . 
I got a bannock from the dresser and sat down to eat it in silence . 
'Are ye wearied , lad ? she asked after a while . 
'I am not so much wearied , Mary , I replied , getting on my feet , 'as I am weary of delay , and perhaps of Aros too . 
You know me well enough to judge me fairly , say what I like . 
Well , Mary , you may be sure of this you had better be anywhere but here . 
'I'll be sure of one thing , she returned 'I'll be where my duty is . 
'You forget , you have a duty to yourself , I said . 
God knows I am in no heart for laughing . 
She had stopped her work by this time . 
There was never an ill thing made better by meddling , that I could hear of . 
But , my lad , you must never ask me to leave my father . 
While the breath is in his body , I'll be with him . 
And he's not long for here , either that I can tell you , Charlie he's not long for here . 
The mark is on his brow and better so maybe better so . 
I was a while silent , not knowing what to say and when I roused my head at last to speak , she got before me . 
'Charlie , she said , 'what's right for me , neednae be right for you . 
'Mary Ellen , I said , 'I asked you to be my wife , and you said as good as yes . 
Wherever you are , I am as I shall answer to my God . 
As I said the words , the wind suddenly burst out raving , and then seemed to stand still and shudder round the house of Aros . 
'God pity all poor folks at sea ! she said . 
'We'll see no more of my father till the morrow's morning . 
And then she told me , as we sat by the fire and hearkened to the rising gusts , of how this change had fallen upon my uncle . 
All last winter he had been dark and fitful in his mind . 
He neglected his work , and kept Rorie idle . 
Since Rorie had first remarked the fish that hung about the ferry , his master had never set foot but once upon the mainland of the Ross . 
It was with a shriek of agony that he had leaped across the gut , and he had reached home thereafter in a fever fit of fear . 
A fear of the sea , a constant haunting thought of the sea , appeared in his talk and devotions , and even in his looks when he was silent . 
I heard that the schooner was losing ground , but the crew were still fighting every inch with hopeless ingenuity and course and the news filled my mind with blackness . 
Mary and I sat in silence , the house quaking overhead , the tempest howling without , the fire between us sputtering with raindrops . 
Now the storm in its might would seize and shake the four corners of the roof , roaring like Leviathan in anger . 
Anon , in a lull , cold eddies of tempest moved shudderingly in the room , lifting the hair upon our heads and passing between us as we sat . 
And again the wind would break forth in a chorus of melancholy sounds , hooting low in the chimney , wailing with flutelike softness round the house . 
It was perhaps eight o'clock when Rorie came in and pulled me mysteriously to the door . 
My uncle , it appeared , had frightened even his constant comrade and Rorie , uneasy at his extravagance , prayed me to come out and share the watch . 
I told Mary to be under no alarm , for I should be a safeguard on her father and wrapping myself warmly in a plaid , I followed Rorie into the open air . 
The night , though we were so little past midsummer , was as dark as January . 
Intervals of a groping twilight alternated with spells of utter blackness and it was impossible to trace the reason of these changes in the flying horror of the sky . 
Sheets of mingled spray and rain were driven in our faces . 
All round the isle of Aros the surf , with an incessant , hammering thunder , beat upon the reefs and beaches . 
Now louder in one place , now lower in another , like the combinations of orchestral music , the constant mass of sound was hardly varied for a moment . 
And loud above all this hurly burly I could hear the changeful voices of the Roost and the intermittent roaring of the Merry Men . 
At that hour , there flashed into my mind the reason of the name that they were called . 
For the noise of them seemed almost mirthful , as it out topped the other noises of the night or if not mirthful , yet instinct with a portentous joviality . 
Nay , and it seemed even human . 
Arm in arm , and staggering against the wind , Rorie and I won every yard of ground with conscious effort . 
We slipped on the wet sod , we fell together sprawling on the rocks . 
Bruised , drenched , beaten , and breathless , it must have taken us near half an hour to get from the house down to the Head that overlooks the Roost . 
There , it seemed , was my uncle's favourite observatory . 
As he might look down from the window of a house upon some street disturbance , so , from this post , he looks down upon the tumbling of the Merry Men . 
Never before had I seen the Merry Men thus violent . 
The fury , height , and transiency of their spoutings was a thing to be seen and not recounted . 
High over our heads on the cliff rose their white columns in the darkness and the same instant , like phantoms , they were gone . 
Sometimes three at a time would thus aspire and vanish sometimes a gust took them , and the spray would fall about us , heavy as a wave . 
And yet the spectacle was rather maddening in its levity than impressive by its force . 
I first caught sight of my uncle when we were still some yards away in one of the flying glimpses of twilight that chequered the pitch darkness of the night . 
He was standing up behind the parapet , his head thrown back and the bottle to his mouth . 
As he put it down , he saw and recognised us with a toss of one hand fleeringly above his head . 
'Has he been drinking ? shouted I to Rorie . 
'He will aye be drunk when the wind blaws , returned Rorie in the same high key , and it was all that I could do to hear him . 
'Then was he so in February ? I inquired . 
Rorie's 'Ay' was a cause of joy to me . 
The murder , then , had not sprung in cold blood from calculation it was an act of madness no more to be condemned than to be pardoned . 
My uncle was a dangerous madman , if you will , but he was not cruel and base as I had feared . 
Yet so it was and , as we reached the bight of shelter and could breathe again , I saw the man's eyes shining in the night with an unholy glimmer . 
'Eh , Charlie , man , it's grand ! he cried . 
Charlie , lad , they're a' drunk in yon schooner , a' dozened wi' drink . 
They were a' drunk in the CHRIST ANNA , at the hinder end . 
There's nane could droon at sea wantin' the brandy . 
Hoot awa , what do you ken ? with a sudden blast of anger . 
'I tell ye , it cannae be they droon withoot it . 
Ha'e , holding out the bottle , 'tak' a sowp . 
I was about to refuse , but Rorie touched me as if in warning and indeed I had already thought better of the movement . 
I took the bottle , therefore , and not only drank freely myself , but contrived to spill even more as I was doing so . 
It was pure spirit , and almost strangled me to swallow . 
My kinsman did not observe the loss , but , once more throwing back his head , drained the remainder to the dregs . 
Then , with a loud laugh , he cast the bottle forth among the Merry Men , who seemed to leap up , shouting to receive it . 
'Ha'e , bairns ! he cried , 'there's your han'sel . 
Ye'll get bonnier nor that , or morning . 
Instantly the wind swept howling down upon the Head , and the Roost bellowed , and churned , and danced with a new fury . 
Crouching together on the edge , we waited , straining every sense , for the inevitable end . 
It was long , however , and to us it seemed like ages , ere the schooner suddenly appeared for one brief instant , relieved against a tower of glimmering foam . 
And with that the tragedy was at an end . 
They were gone like a dream . 
And the wind still ran and shouted , and the senseless waters in the Roost still leaped and tumbled as before . 
How long we lay there together , we three , speechless and motionless , is more than I can tell , but it must have been for long . 
At length , one by one , and almost mechanically , we crawled back into the shelter of the bank . 
As I lay against the parapet , wholly wretched and not entirely master of my mind , I could hear my kinsman maundering to himself in an altered and melancholy mood . 
The storm all this time was rapidly abating . 
In half an hour the wind had fallen to a breeze , and the change was accompanied or caused by a heavy , cold , and plumping rain . 
CHAPTER V. A MAN OUT OF THE SEA . 
He was now docile and quiet , but tremulous and weak in mind and body and it was with the eagerness of a child that he pursued his exploration . 
He climbed far down upon the rocks on the beaches , he pursued the retreating breakers . 
The merest broken plank or rag of cordage was a treasure in his eyes to be secured at the peril of his life . 
Yet , weakened as he was by the reaction from his madness of the night before , the passions that smouldered in his nature were those of a strong man . 
Pleased as he was with what he found , he still incessantly grumbled at his ill fortune . 
'Aros , he said , 'is no a place for wrecks ava' no ava' . 
'Na , na , he said , 'no as bad as that . 
I had been drinking , though . 
And to tell ye the God's truth , it's a thing I cannae mend . 
There's nae soberer man than me in my ordnar but when I hear the wind blaw in my lug , it's my belief that I gang gyte . 
'You are a religious man , I replied , 'and this is sin' . 
'Ou , he returned , 'if it wasnae sin , I dinnae ken that I would care for't . 
Ye see , man , it's defiance . 
I'm a deil , I ken't . 
But I think naething o' the puir sailor lads I'm wi' the sea , I'm just like ane o' her ain Merry Men . 
I thought I should touch him in a joint of his harness . 
'Thus far shalt thou go , said I , 'and no farther . 
'Ay , said my kinsinan , 'at the hinder end , the Lord will triumph I dinnae misdoobt that . 
But here on earth , even silly men folk daur Him to His face . 
It is nae wise I am nae sayin' that it's wise but it's the pride of the eye , and it's the lust o' life , an' it's the wale o' pleesures . 
Nor did he pursue the subject but he walked beside me with a firmer step . 
In three or four minutes we had topped the brae and begun to go down upon Sandag . 
When we came to the grave I stopped , uncovered my head in the thick rain , and , looking my kinsman in the face , addressed him . 
I was assailed with doubts that made suspense unbearable , and , to put the matter to the touch at once , stepped forward and hailed the figure like a ship . 
He turned about , and I thought he started to behold us . 
At each repeated mark of the man's uneasiness I grew the more confident myself and I advanced another step , encouraging him as I did so with my head and hand . 
It was plain the castaway had heard indifferent accounts of our island hospitality and indeed , about this time , the people farther north had a sorry reputation . 
I ran to my kinsman , I seized him by the shoulders , I dragged him to his feet . 
'Silence , man , said I , 'respect your God in words , if not in action . 
Here , on the very scene of your transgressions , He sends you an occasion of atonement . 
Forward and embrace it welcome like a father yon creature who comes trembling to your mercy . 
I advanced accordingly towards the black , who now awaited my approach with folded arms , like one prepared for either destiny . 
I tried him first in English , then in Gaelic , both in vain so that it was clear we must rely upon the tongue of looks and gestures . 
At the same time he pointed to my uncle , whom we could just see perched upon a knoll , and touched his head to indicate that he was mad . 
Accordingly , pausing on a rock , I proceeded to imitate before the negro the action of the man whom I had seen the day before taking bearings with the compass at Sandag . 
I had thus been right in my conjecture the pretended historical inquiry had been but a cloak for treasure hunting the man who had played on Dr . 
The mystery of his presence being thus solved for me , I explained to him by means of a sketch the fate of the vessel and of all aboard her . 
He showed no surprise nor sorrow , and , with a sudden lifting of his open hand , seemed to dismiss his former friends or masters into God's pleasure . 
To Mary I told all that had passed without suppression , though I own my heart failed me but I did wrong to doubt her sense of justice . 
'You did the right , she said . 
And she set out meat for us at once . 
As soon as I was satisfied , I bade Rorie keep an eye upon the castaway , who was still eating , and set forth again myself to find my uncle . 
He made not so much as a movement in reply . 
I passed on a little farther , and again tried parley , with the same result . 
An hour before , he had been dead weary , and I had been comparatively active . 
But now his strength was recruited by the fervour of insanity , and it would have been vain for me to dream of pursuit . 
Nay , the very attempt , I thought , might have inflamed his terrors , and thus increased the miseries of our position . 
And I had nothing left but to turn homeward and make my sad report to Mary . 
Mary , Rorie , and the black castaway were seated about the fire in silence and I could see that Mary had been weeping . 
There was cause enough , as I soon learned , for tears . 
He fled , and he was silent , like a beast and this silence had terrified his pursuer . 
There was something heart breaking in the situation . 
'The black , said I , 'is the cause of this attack . 
It may even be his presence in the house that keeps my uncle on the hill . 
In this proposal Mary heartily concurred and bidding the black follow us , we all three descended to the pier . 
Three days of work at least would be required to make her float . 
But I was not to be beaten . 
I led the whole party round to where the gut was narrowest , swam to the other side , and called to the black to follow me . 
All we could do that day was to make one more attempt to communicate with the unhappy madman . 
Again he was visible on his perch again he fled in silence . 
But food and a great cloak were at least left for his comfort the rain , besides , had cleared away , and the night promised to be even warm . 
I lay long awake , planning a campaign for the morrow . 
It was near the top of the flood , and the Merry Men were roaring in the windless quiet of the night . 
Never , not even in the height of the tempest , had I heard their song with greater awe . 
They seemed , indeed , to be a part of the world's evil and the tragic side of life . 
Nor were their meaningless vociferations the only sounds that broke the silence of the night . 
For I could hear , now shrill and thrilling and now almost drowned , the note of a human voice that accompanied the uproar of the Roost . 
I knew it for my kinsman's and a great fear fell upon me of God's judgments , and the evil in the world . 
I went back again into the darkness of the house as into a place of shelter , and lay long upon my bed , pondering these mysteries . 
It was late when I again woke , and I leaped into my clothes and hurried to the kitchen . 
No one was there Rorie and the black had both stealthily departed long before and my heart stood still at the discovery . 
I could rely on Rorie's heart , but I placed no trust in his discretion . 
If he had thus set out without a word , he was plainly bent upon some service to my uncle . 
With the thought I was out of the house and often as I have run on the rough sides of Aros , I never ran as I did that fatal morning . 
I do not believe I put twelve minutes to the whole ascent . 
My uncle was gone from his perch . 
'Rorie ! I cried and again 'Rorie ! My voice died in the silence , but there came no answer back . 
If there were indeed an enterprise afoot to catch my uncle , it was plainly not in fleetness of foot , but in dexterity of stalking , that the hunters placed their trust . 
I ran on farther , keeping the higher spurs , and looking right and left , nor did I pause again till I was on the mount above Sandag . 
But still no human thing . 
At a stride the sunshine fell on Aros , and the shadows and colours leaped into being . 
Not half a moment later , below me to the west , sheep began to scatter as in a panic . 
I saw my uncle running . 
I saw the black jump up in hot pursuit and before I had time to understand , Rorie also had appeared , calling directions in Gaelic as to a dog herding sheep . 
I took to my heels to interfere , and perhaps I had done better to have waited where I was , for I was the means of cutting off the madman's last escape . 
There was nothing before him from that moment but the grave , the wreck , and the sea in Sandag Bay . 
And yet Heaven knows that what I did was for the best . 
My uncle Gordon saw in what direction , horrible to him , the chase was driving him . 
He doubled , darting to the right and left but high as the fever ran in his veins , the black was still the swifter . 
Turn where he would , he was still forestalled , still driven toward the scene of his crime . 
Suddenly he began to shriek aloud , so that the coast re echoed and now both I and Rorie were calling on the black to stop . 
But all was vain , for it was written otherwise . 
Rorie and I both stopped , for the thing was now beyond the hands of men , and these were the decrees of God that came to pass before our eyes . 
There was never a sharper ending . 
CHAPTER I. THE PLAIN AND THE STARS . 
THE Mill here Will lived with his adopted parents stood in a falling valley between pinewoods and great mountains . 
Above , hill after hill , soared upwards until they soared out of the depth of the hardiest timber , and stood naked against the sky . 
Much more was this the case with foot passengers . 
All the light footed tourists , all the pedlars laden with strange wares , were tending downward like the river that accompanied their path . 
Nor was this all for when Will was yet a child a disastrous war arose over a great part of the world . 
It sometimes made him glad when he noticed how the fishes kept their heads up stream . 
They , at least , stood faithfully by him , while all else were posting downward to the unknown world . 
One evening he asked the miller where the river went . 
'It goes down the valley , answered he , 'and turns a power of mills six score mills , they say , from here to Unterdeck and is none the wearier after all . 
where kings live all alone in great palaces , with a sentry walling up and down before the door . 
Ay , it has a long trot before it as it goes singing over our weir , bless its heart ! 'And what is the sea ? asked Will . 
'The sea ! cried the miller . 
'Lord help us all , it is the greatest thing God made ! That is where all the water in the world runs down into a great salt lake . 
The sun was near setting , and hung low down in a cloudless sky . 
Everything was defined and glorified in golden light . 
Will had never seen so great an expanse of country in his life he stood and gazed with all his eyes . 
From that day forward Will was full of new hopes and longings . 
To any one thinking deeply , this will seem a dull and pitiful explanation . 
There is one legend which profoundly represents their spirit , of how a flying party of these wanderers encountered a very old man shod with iron . 
The old man asked them whither they were going and they answered with one voice 'To the Eternal City ! He looked upon them gravely . 
'I have sought it , he said , 'over the most part of the world . 
Three such pairs as I now carry on my feet have I worn out upon this pilgrimage , and now the fourth is growing slender underneath my steps . 
And all this while I have not found the city . 
And he turned and went his own way alone , leaving them astonished . 
And yet this would scarcely parallel the intensity of Will's feeling for the plain . 
He was transplanted and withering where he was he lay in a strange country and was sick for home . 
I have said he was sick as if for home the figure halts . 
He was like some one lying in twilit , formless preexistence , and stretching out his hands lovingly towards many coloured , many sounding life . 
The true life , the true bright sunshine , lay far out upon the plain . 
A time came at last when this was to be changed . 
Many complimented the old couple on their serving boy and a professor was eager to take him away with him , and have him properly educated in the plain . 
The miller and his wife were mightily astonished and even more pleased . 
They thought it a very good thing that they should have opened their inn . 
Every carriage that left the inn door seemed to take a part of him away with it and when people jestingly offered him a lift , he could with difficulty command his emotion . 
One day , when Will was about sixteen , a fat young man arrived at sunset to pass the night . 
He was a contented looking fellow , with a jolly eye , and carried a knapsack . 
The young man whistled , and then broke into a smile . 
'My young friend , he remarked , 'you are a very curious little fellow to be sure , and wish a great many things which you will never get . 
And let me tell you , those who go down into the plains are a very short while there before they wish themselves heartily back again . 
The air is not so light nor so pure nor is the sun any brighter . 
'You must think me very simple , answered Will . 
'Although I have never been out of this valley , believe me , I have used my eyes . 
I do not expect to find all things right in your cities . 
'Thousands of people , said the young man , 'live and die like you , and are none the less happy . 
The fat young man rose , and , taking Will by the arm , led him out under the open heavens . 
'Did you ever look at the stars ? he asked , pointing upwards . 
'Often and often , answered Will . 
'And do you know what they are ? 'I have fancied many things . 
'They are worlds like ours , said the young man . 
When a great battle has been lost or a dear friend is dead , when we are hipped or in high spirits , there they are unweariedly shining overhead . 
We may stand down here , a whole army of us together , and shout until we break our hearts , and not a whisper reaches them . 
We may climb the highest mountain , and we are no nearer them . 
The mountain and the mouse . 
That is like to be all we shall ever have to do with Arcturus or Aldebaran . 
Can you apply a parable ? he added , laying his hand upon Will's shoulder . 
'It is not the same thing as a reason , but usually vastly more convincing . 
Will hung his head a little , and then raised it once more to heaven . 
The stars seemed to expand and emit a sharper brilliancy and as he kept turning his eyes higher and higher , they seemed to increase in multitude under his gaze . 
'I see , he said , turning to the young man . 
'We are in a rat trap . 
Did you ever see a squirrel turning in a cage ? and another squirrel sitting philosophically over his nuts ? I needn't ask you which of them looked more of a fool . 
After some years the old people died , both in one winter , very carefully tended by their adopted son , and very quietly mourned when they were gone . 
People who had heard of his roving fancies supposed he would hasten to sell the property , and go down the river to push his fortunes . 
But there was never any sign of such in intention on the part of Will . 
She held her head very high , and had already refused several offers of marriage with a grand air , which had got her hard names among the neighbours . 
For all that she was a good girl , and one that would have made any man well contented . 
Will had never seen much of her for although the church and parsonage were only two miles from his own door , he was never known to go there but on Sundays . 
Will was about the last man in the world to be cajoled or frightened into marriage . 
Marjory herself was no weakling by her looks , with strong , steady eyes and a resolute and quiet bearing . 
It might be a question whether she was not Will's match in stedfastness , after all , or which of them would rule the roast in marriage . 
But Marjory had never given it a thought , and accompanied her father with the most unshaken innocence and unconcern . 
Will soon began to take a particular pleasure in these dinners . 
The parson was rather a dull companion , with a habit of dozing at table but nothing rude or cruel ever fell from his lips . 
The whole valley could not compare in looks with this one girl . 
Will was always observant in the society of his fellow creatures but his observation became almost painfully eager in the case of Marjory . 
He listened to all she uttered , and read her eyes , at the same time , for the unspoken commentary . 
Many kind , simple , and sincere speeches found an echo in his heart . 
He became conscious of a soul beautifully poised upon itself , nothing doubting , nothing desiring , clothed in peace . 
It was not possible to separate her thoughts from her appearance . 
Her influence was one thing , not to be divided or discussed , only to he felt with gratitude and joy . 
One day after dinner Will took a stroll among the firs a grave beatitude possessed him from top to toe , and he kept smiling to himself and the landscape as he went . 
His way took him to the eminence which overlooked the plain and there he sat down upon a stone , and fell into deep and pleasant thought . 
He repeated Marjory's name aloud , and the sound of it gratified his ear . 
He shut his eyes , and her image sprang up before him , quietly luminous and attended with good thoughts . 
The river might run for ever the birds fly higher and higher till they touched the stars . 
He saw it was empty bustle after all for here , without stirring a feet , waiting patiently in his own narrow valley , he also had attained the better sunlight . 
The next day Will made a sort of declaration across the dinner table , while the parson was filling his pipe . 
'Miss Marjory , he said , 'I never knew any one I liked so well as you . 
I am mostly a cold , unkindly sort of man not from want of heart , but out of strangeness in my way of thinking and people seem far away from me . 
'Tis as if there were a circle round me , which kept every one out but you I can hear the others talking and laughing but you come quite close . 
Maybe , this is disagreeable to you ? he asked . 
'Speak up , girl , said the parson . 
'Nay , now , returned Will , 'I wouldn't press her , parson . 
I feel tongue tied myself , who am not used to it and she's a woman , and little more than a child , when all is said . 
But for my part , as far as I can understand what people mean by it , I fancy I must be what they call in love . 
I do not wish to be held as committing myself for I may be wrong but that is how I believe things are with me . 
And if Miss Marjory should feel any otherwise on her part , mayhap she would be so kind as shake her head . 
Marjory was silent , and gave no sign that she had heard . 
'How is that , parson ? asked Will . 
'The girl must speak , replied the parson , laying down his pipe . 
'Here's our neighbour who says he loves you , Madge . 
Do you love him , ay or no ? 'I think I do , said Marjory , faintly . 
'Well then , that's all that could be wished ! cried Will , heartily . 
And he took her hand across the table , and held it a moment in both of his with great satisfaction . 
'You must marry , observed the parson , replacing his pipe in his mouth . 
'Is that the right thing to do , think you ? demanded Will . 
'It is indispensable , said the parson . 
'Very well , replied the wooer . 
Two or three days passed away with great delight to Will , although a bystander might scarce have found it out . 
For she was never out of Will's mind for an instant . 
The sound of his own mill wheel , or of the wind among the trees , confounded and charmed his heart . 
The most enchanting thoughts presented themselves unbidden in his mind . 
He was so happy that he could not sleep at night , and so restless , that he could hardly sit still out of her company . 
And yet it seemed as if he avoided her rather than sought her out . 
'You like flowers ? he said . 
'Indeed I love them dearly , she replied . 
'Do you ? 'Why , no , said he , 'not so much . 
They are a very small affair , when all is done . 
I can fancy people caring for them greatly , but not doing as you are just now . 
'How ? she asked , pausing and looking up at him . 
'Plucking them , said he . 
'They are a deal better off where they are , and look a deal prettier , if you go to that . 
'I wish to have them for my own , she answered , 'to carry them near my heart , and keep them in my room . 
'You wish to possess them , replied Will , 'in order to think no more about them . 
It's a bit like killing the goose with the golden eggs . 
It's a bit like what I wished to do when I was a boy . 
Because I had a fancy for looking out over the plain , I wished to go down there where I couldn't look out over it any longer . 
Suddenly he broke off sharp . 
'By the Lord ! he cried . 
And when she asked him what was wrong , he turned the question off and walked away into the house with rather a humorous expression of face . 
There was still a light in the window of Marjory's room one little oblong patch of orange in a world of dark blue hills and silver starlight . 
Will's mind ran a great deal on the window but his thoughts were not very lover like . 
At the same instant , a corner of the blind was lifted and lowered again at once . 
He laughed a loud ho ho ! 'One and another ! thought Will . 
'The stars tremble , and the blind goes up . 
'I have been thinking about getting married , he began abruptly 'and after having turned it all over , I have made up my mind it's not worthwhile . 
He could see her tremble . 
'I hope you don't mind , he went on , a little taken aback . 
I have turned it all over , and upon my soul there's nothing in it . 
We should never be one whit nearer than we are just now , and , if I am a wise man , nothing like so happy . 
'It is unnecessary to go round about with me , she said . 
'I ask your pardon , said Will stoutly 'you do not understand my meaning . 
As to whether I have ever loved you or not , I must leave that to others . 
I mean what I say no less . 
I do not think getting married is worth while . 
But I'll marry you if you will , he added . 
'Do you know that you are insulting me ? she broke out . 
I'll marry you , if you like but I tell you again and again , it's not worth while , and we had best stay friends . 
Though I am a quiet man I have noticed a heap of things in my life . 
Trust in me , and take things as I propose or , if you don't like that , say the word , and I'll marry you out of hand . 
There was a considerable pause , and Will , who began to feel uneasy , began to grow angry in consequence . 
'It seems you are too proud to say your mind , he said . 
'Believe me that's a pity . 
A clean shrift makes simple living . 
Can a man be more downright or honourable , to a woman than I have been ? I have said my say , and given you your choice . 
He walked up and down the garden , whistling softly to himself . 
Sometimes he stopped and contemplated the sky and hill tops sometimes he went down to the tail of the weir and sat there , looking foolishly in the water . 
All this dubiety and perturbation was so foreign to his nature and the life which he had resolutely chosen for himself , that he began to regret Marjory's arrival . 
'After all , he thought , 'I was as happy as a man need be . 
I could come down here and watch my fishes all day long if I wanted I was as settled and contented as my old mill . 
'Father , she began , 'Mr . 
Will and I have been talking things over . 
Of course , father , you will know best , but perhaps we should do better to leave Mr. Will's house for the present . 
I believe , after what has passed , we should hardly be agreeable inmates for some days . 
But she checked him at once looking up at him with a swift glance and an angry flush upon her cheek . 
'You will perhaps have the good grace , she said , 'to let me explain these matters for myself . 
Will was put entirely out of countenance by her expression and the ring of her voice . 
He held his peace , concluding that there were some things about this girl beyond his comprehension , in which he was exactly right . 
The poor parson was quite crestfallen . 
But Will had been observing closely , and was well aware of her dexterity and resolution . 
When he found himself alone he had a great many curious matters to turn over in his mind . 
He was very sad and solitary , to begin with . 
All the interest had gone out of his life , and he might look up at the stars as long as he pleased , he somehow failed to find support or consolation . 
And then he was in such a turmoil of spirit about Marjory . 
He had been puzzled and irritated at her behaviour , and yet he could not keep himself from admiring it . 
Like a man who has lived among shadows and now meets the sun , he was both pained and delighted . 
As the days went forward he passed from one extreme to another now pluming himself on the strength of his determination , now despising his timid and silly caution . 
To equable , steady minded Will this state of matters was intolerable and he determined , at whatever cost , to bring it to an end . 
So , one warm summer afternoon he put on his best clothes , took a thorn switch in his hand , and set out down the valley by the river . 
It was nearly the same to him how the matter turned out . 
If she accepted him he would have to marry her this time , which perhaps was , all for the best . 
If she refused him , he would have done his utmost , and might follow his own way in the future with an untroubled conscience . 
Marjory seemed glad to see him , and gave him her hand without affectation or delay . 
'I have been thinking about this marriage , he began . 
'So have I , she answered . 
'And I respect you more and more for a very wise man . 
You understood me better than I understood myself and I am now quite certain that things are all for the best as they are . 
'At the same time , ventured Will . 
'You must be tired , she interrupted . 
'Take a seat and let me fetch you a glass of wine . 
The afternoon is so warm and I wish you not to be displeased with your visit . 
You must come quite often once a week , if you can spare the time I am always so glad to see my friends . 
'O , very well , thought Will to himself . 
'It appears I was right after all . 
And he paid a very agreeable visit , walked home again in capital spirits , and gave himself no further concern about the matter . 
He rather stinted himself the pleasure of seeing her and he would often walk half way over to the parsonage , and then back again , as if to whet his appetite . 
At the end of the three years Marjory played him a sad trick by suddenly marrying somebody else . 
Will kept his countenance bravely , and merely remarked that , for as little as he knew of women , he had acted very prudently in not marrying her himself three years before . 
She plainly knew very little of her own mind , and , in spite of a deceptive manner , was as fickle and flighty as the rest of them . 
He had to congratulate himself on an escape , he said , and would take a higher opinion of his own wisdom in consequence . 
But at heart , he was reasonably displeased , moped a good deal for a month or two , and fell away in flesh , to the astonishment of his serving lads . 
Will was no horseman , and made so little speed upon the way that the poor young wife was very near her end before he arrived . 
But they had some minutes' talk in private , and he was present and wept very bitterly while she breathed her last . 
His heart was young and vigorous and if his pulses kept a sober time , they still beat strong and steady in his wrists . 
His talk was full of wise sayings . 
He had a taste for other people and other people had a taste for him . 
Many and many an invitation , you may be sure , he had but nothing could tempt him from his upland valley . 
He would shake his head and smile over his tobacco pipe with a deal of meaning . 
'You come too late , he would answer . 
'I am a dead man now I have lived and died already . 
Fifty years ago you would have brought my heart into my mouth and now you do not even tempt me . 
But that is the object of long living , that man should cease to care about life . 
And again 'There is only one difference between a long life and a good dinner that , in the dinner , the sweets come last . 
Or once more 'When I was a boy , I was a bit puzzled , and hardly knew whether it was myself or the world that was curious and worth looking into . 
Now , I know it is myself , and stick to that . 
Only , when he did speak , it was more to the point and more charged with old experience . 
He drank a bottle of wine gladly above all , at sunset on the hill top or quite late at night under the stars in the arbour . 
It was pitch dark , without a star the river was swollen , and the wet woods and meadows loaded the air with perfume . 
It had thundered during the day , and it promised more thunder for the morrow . 
The tide of his consciousness ebbed and flowed he was sometimes half asleep and drowned in his recollections of the past and sometimes he was broad awake , wondering at himself . 
It was like the stir of horses and the creaking of harness , as though a carriage with an impatient team had been brought up upon the road before the courtyard gate . 
He was once again awakened by the dead miller's call , thinner and more spectral than before and once again he heard the noise of an equipage upon the road . 
Now the heliotrope had been Marjory's favourite flower , and since her death not one of them had ever been planted in Will's ground . 
'I must be going crazy , he thought . 
'Poor Marjory and her heliotropes ! And with that he raised his eyes towards the window that had once been hers . 
The illusion only endured an instant but it left him somewhat unmanned , rubbing his eyes and staring at the outline of the house and the black night behind it . 
There was something like the outline of a great carriage discernible on the road behind the stranger , and , above that , a few black pine tops , like so many plumes . 
'Master Will ? asked the new comer , in brief military fashion . 
'That same , sir , answered Will . 
'Can I do anything to serve you ? 'I have heard you much spoken of , Master Will , returned the other 'much spoken of , and well . 
And though I have both hands full of business , I wish to drink a bottle of wine with you in your arbour . 
Before I go , I shall introduce myself . 
Will led the way to the trellis , and got a lamp lighted and a bottle uncorked . 
He was not altogether unused to such complimentary interviews , and hoped little enough from this one , being schooled by many disappointments . 
A sort of cloud had settled on his wits and prevented him from remembering the strangeness of the hour . 
He moved like a person in his sleep and it seemed as if the lamp caught fire and the bottle came uncorked with the facility of thought . 
He stared and stared at this shadow , as he wiped out the glasses , and began to feel cold and strange about the heart . 
The silence weighed upon him , for he could hear nothing now , not even the river , but the drumming of his own arteries in his ears . 
'Here's to you , said the stranger , roughly . 
'Here is my service , sir , replied Will , sipping his wine , which somehow tasted oddly . 
'I understand you are a very positive fellow , pursued the stranger . 
Will made answer with a smile of some satisfaction and a little nod . 
'So am I , continued the other 'and it is the delight of my heart to tramp on people's corns . 
I will have nobody positive but myself not one . 
I have crossed the whims , in my time , of kings and generals and great artists . 
'I have , said the stranger . 
'And if I did not hold you in a particular esteem , I should make no words about the matter . 
It appears you pride yourself on staying where you are . 
You mean to stick by your inn . 
Now I mean you shall come for a turn with me in my barouche and before this bottle's empty , so you shall . 
'That would be an odd thing , to be sure , replied Will , with a chuckle . 
The dimness of Will's eyesight had been increasing all this while but he was somehow conscious of a sharp and chilling scrutiny which irritated and yet overmastered him . 
God knows I am tired enough of it all and when the time comes for a longer journey than ever you dream of , I reckon I shall find myself prepared . 
The stranger emptied his glass and pushed it away from him . 
He looked down for a little , and then , leaning over the table , tapped Will three times upon the forearm with a single finger . 
'The time has come ! he said solemnly . 
An ugly thrill spread from the spot he touched . 
The tones of his voice were dull and startling , and echoed strangely in Will's heart . 
'I beg your pardon , he said , with some discomposure . 
'What do you mean ? 'Look at me , and you will find your eyesight swim . 
Raise your hand it is dead heavy . 
This is your last bottle of wine , Master Will , and your last night upon the earth . 
'You are a doctor ? quavered Will . 
'The best that ever was , replied the other 'for I cure both mind and body with the same prescription . 
I take away all plain and I forgive all sins and where my patients have gone wrong in life , I smooth out all complications and set them free again upon their feet . 
'I have no need of you , said Will . 
'A time comes for all men , Master Will , replied the doctor , 'when the helm is taken out of their hands . 
For you , because you were prudent and quiet , it has been long of coming , and you have had long to discipline yourself for its reception . 
'You are a strange physician , said Will , looking steadfastly upon his guest . 
'I am a natural law , he replied , 'and people call me Death . 
'Why did you not tell me so at first ? cried Will . 
'I have been waiting for you these many years . 
Give me your hand , and welcome . 
'Lean upon my arm , said the stranger , 'for already your strength abates . 
Lean on me as heavily as you need for though I am old , I am very strong . 
It is but three steps to my carriage , and there all your trouble ends . 
I am caustic , and sometimes offend people at first sight but I am a good friend at heart to such as you . 
'Since Marjory was taken , returned Will , 'I declare before God you were the only friend I had to look for . 
So the pair went arm in arm across the courtyard . 
MARKHEIM 'YES , said the dealer , 'our windfalls are of various kinds . 
Some customers are ignorant , and then I touch a dividend on my superior knowledge . 
Markheim had but just entered from the daylight streets , and his eyes had not yet grown familiar with the mingled shine and darkness in the shop . 
At these pointed words , and before the near presence of the flame , he blinked painfully and looked aside . 
I am the essence of discretion , and ask no awkward questions but when a customer cannot look me in the eye , he has to pay for it . 
Markheim returned his gaze with one of infinite pity , and a touch of horror . 
'This time , said he , 'you are in error . 
I have not come to sell , but to buy . 
But the thing was neglected yesterday I must produce my little compliment at dinner and , as you very well know , a rich marriage is not a thing to be neglected . 
There followed a pause , during which the dealer seemed to weigh this statement incredulously . 
The ticking of many clocks among the curious lumber of the shop , and the faint rushing of the cabs in a near thoroughfare , filled up the interval of silence . 
'Well , sir , said the dealer , 'be it so . 
You are an old customer after all and if , as you say , you have the chance of a good marriage , far be it from me to be an obstacle . 
It passed as swiftly as it came , and left no trace beyond a certain trembling of the hand that now received the glass . 
'A glass , he said hoarsely , and then paused , and repeated it more clearly . 
'A glass ? For Christmas ? Surely not ? 'And why not ? cried the dealer . 
'Why not a glass ? Markheim was looking upon him with an indefinable expression . 
'You ask me why not ? he said . 
'Why , look here look in it look at yourself ! Do you like to see it ? No ! nor I nor any man . 
The little man had jumped back when Markheim had so suddenly confronted him with the mirror but now , perceiving there was nothing worse on hand , he chuckled . 
'Your future lady , sir , must be pretty hard favoured , said he . 
It will be better for you if you do . 
Come , tell me about yourself . 
I hazard a guess now , that you are in secret a very charitable man ? The dealer looked closely at his companion . 
It was very odd , Markheim did not appear to be laughing there was something in his face like an eager sparkle of hope , but nothing of mirth . 
'What are you driving at ? the dealer asked . 
'Not charitable ? returned the other , gloomily . 
Not charitable not pious not scrupulous unloving , unbeloved a hand to get money , a safe to keep it . 
'But I see this is a love match of yours , and you have been drinking the lady's health . 
'Ah ! cried Markheim , with a strange curiosity . 
'Ah , have you been in love ? Tell me about that . 
'I , cried the dealer . 
'I in love ! I never had the time , nor have I the time to day for all this nonsense . 
Will you take the glass ? 'Where is the hurry ? returned Markheim . 
We should rather cling , cling to what little we can get , like a man at a cliff's edge . 
Every second is a cliff , if you think upon it a cliff a mile high high enough , if we fall , to dash us out of every feature of humanity . 
Hence it is best to talk pleasantly . 
Let us talk of each other why should we wear this mask ? Let us be confidential . 
Who knows , we might become friends ? 'I have just one word to say to you , said the dealer . 
'Either make your purchase , or walk out of my shop ! 'True true , said Markheim . 
The dealer stooped once more , this time to replace the glass upon the shelf , his thin blond hair falling over his eyes as he did so . 
'This , perhaps , may suit , observed the dealer and then , as he began to re arise , Markheim bounded from behind upon his victim . 
The long , skewerlike dagger flashed and fell . 
The dealer struggled like a hen , striking his temple on the shelf , and then tumbled on the floor in a heap . 
Time had some score of small voices in that shop , some stately and slow as was becoming to their great age others garrulous and hurried . 
All these told out the seconds in an intricate , chorus of tickings . 
Then the passage of a lad's feet , heavily running on the pavement , broke in upon these smaller voices and startled Markheim into the consciousness of his surroundings . 
He looked about him awfully . 
The inner door stood ajar , and peered into that leaguer of shadows with a long slit of daylight like a pointing finger . 
From these fear stricken rovings , Markheim's eyes returned to the body of his victim , where it lay both humped and sprawling , incredibly small and strangely meaner than in life . 
In these poor , miserly clothes , in that ungainly attitude , the dealer lay like so much sawdust . 
Markheim had feared to see it , and , lo ! it was nothing . 
And yet , as he gazed , this bundle of old clothes and pool of blood began to find eloquent voices . 
There it must lie there was none to work the cunning hinges or direct the miracle of locomotion there it must lie till it was found . 
Found ! ay , and then ? Then would this dead flesh lift up a cry that would ring over England , and fill the world with the echoes of pursuit . 
Ay , dead or not , this was still the enemy . 
'Time was that when the brains were out , he thought and the first word struck into his mind . 
Time , now that the deed was accomplished time , which had closed for the victim , had become instant and momentous for the slayer . 
The sudden outbreak of so many tongues in that dumb chamber staggered him . 
He began to bestir himself , going to and fro with the candle , beleaguered by moving shadows , and startled to the soul by chance reflections . 
And still , as he continued to fill his pockets , his mind accused him with a sickening iteration , of the thousand faults of his design . 
Terror of the people in the street sat down before his mind like a besieging army . 
But he was now so pulled about by different alarms that , while one portion of his mind was still alert and cunning , another trembled on the brink of lunacy . 
One hallucination in particular took a strong hold on his credulity . 
At times , with a strong effort , he would glance at the open door which still seemed to repel his eyes . 
Markheim , smitten into ice , glanced at the dead man . 
And presently the jovial gentleman desisted from his knocking , and departed . 
One visitor had come at any moment another might follow and be more obstinate . 
To have done the deed , and yet not to reap the profit , would be too abhorrent a failure . 
The money , that was now Markheim's concern and as a means to that , the keys . 
The human character had quite departed . 
Like a suit half stuffed with bran , the limbs lay scattered , the trunk doubled , on the floor and yet the thing repelled him . 
Although so dingy and inconsiderable to the eye , he feared it might have more significance to the touch . 
He took the body by the shoulders , and turned it on its back . 
It was strangely light and supple , and the limbs , as if they had been broken , fell into the oddest postures . 
The face was robbed of all expression but it was as pale as wax , and shockingly smeared with blood about one temple . 
That was , for Markheim , the one displeasing circumstance . 
So he reasoned in vain he could rise to no more remorseful consciousness the same heart which had shuddered before the painted effigies of crime , looked on its reality unmoved . 
But of penitence , no , not a tremor . 
With that , shaking himself clear of these considerations , he found the keys and advanced towards the open door of the shop . 
Outside , it had begun to rain smartly and the sound of the shower upon the roof had banished silence . 
Like some dripping cavern , the chambers of the house were haunted by an incessant echoing , which filled the ear and mingled with the ticking of the clocks . 
And , as Markheim approached the door , he seemed to hear , in answer to his own cautious tread , the steps of another foot withdrawing up the stair . 
The shadow still palpitated loosely on the threshold . 
He threw a ton's weight of resolve upon his muscles , and drew back the door . 
So loud was the beating of the rain through all the house that , in Markheim's ears , it began to be distinguished into many different sounds . 
The sense that he was not alone grew upon him to the verge of madness . 
On every side he was haunted and begirt by presences . 
The four and twenty steps to the first floor were four and twenty agonies . 
On that first storey , the doors stood ajar , three of them like three ambushes , shaking his nerves like the throats of cannon . 
And at that thought he wondered a little , recollecting tales of other murderers and the fear they were said to entertain of heavenly avengers . 
It was not so , at least , with him . 
He feared the laws of nature , lest , in their callous and immutable procedure , they should preserve some damning evidence of his crime . 
He feared tenfold more , with a slavish , superstitions terror , some scission in the continuity of man's experience , some wilful illegality of nature . 
when the winter changed the time of its appearance . 
These things he feared and , in a sense , these things might be called the hands of God reached forth against sin . 
When he had got safe into the drawing room , and shut the door behind him , he was aware of a respite from alarms . 
The windows opened to the floor but by great good fortune the lower part of the shutters had been closed , and this concealed him from the neighbours . 
Here , then , Markheim drew in a packing case before the cabinet , and began to search among the keys . 
But the closeness of the occupation sobered him . 
With the tail of his eye he saw the door even glanced at it from time to time directly , like a besieged commander pleased to verify the good estate of his defences . 
But in truth he was at peace . 
The rain falling in the street sounded natural and pleasant . 
Presently , on the other side , the notes of a piano were wakened to the music of a hymn , and the voices of many children took up the air and words . 
and the painted Jacobean tombs , and the dim lettering of the Ten Commandments in the chancel . 
And as he sat thus , at once busy and absent , he was startled to his feet . 
A flash of ice , a flash of fire , a bursting gush of blood , went over him , and then he stood transfixed and thrilling . 
A step mounted the stair slowly and steadily , and presently a hand was laid upon the knob , and the lock clicked , and the door opened . 
Fear held Markheim in a vice . 
At the sound of this the visitant returned . 
'Did you call me ? he asked , pleasantly , and with that he entered the room and closed the door behind him . 
Markheim stood and gazed at him with all his eyes . 
'I should warn you , resumed the other , 'that the maid has left her sweetheart earlier than usual and will soon be here . 
If Mr. Markheim be found in this house , I need not describe to him the consequences . 
'You know me ? cried the murderer . 
'You have long been a favourite of mine , he said 'and I have long observed and often sought to help you . 
'What are you ? cried Markheim 'the devil ? 'What I may be , returned the other , 'cannot affect the service I propose to render you . 
'I know you to the soul . 
'Know me ! cried Markheim . 
'Who can do so ? My life is but a travesty and slander on myself . 
I have lived to belie my nature . 
All men do all men are better than this disguise that grows about and stifles them . 
You see each dragged away by life , like one whom bravos have seized and muffled in a cloak . 
But , had I the time , I could disclose myself . 
'To me ? inquired the visitant . 
'To you before all , returned the murderer . 
'I supposed you were intelligent . 
I thought since you exist you would prove a reader of the heart . 
'I offer you the service for a Christmas gift , returned the other . 
Markheim could not refrain from smiling with a kind of bitter triumph . 
It may be credulous , but I will do nothing to commit myself to evil . 
'I have no objection to a death bed repentance , observed the visitant . 
'Because you disbelieve their efficacy ! Markheim cried . 
'I do not say so , returned the other 'but I look on these things from a different side , and when the life is done my interest falls . 
I am not so hard a master . 
'And do you , then , suppose me such a creature ? asked Markheim . 
'All sins are murder , even as all life is war . 
I behold your race , like starving mariners on a raft , plucking crusts out of the hands of famine and feeding on each other's lives . 
Do I say that I follow sins ? I follow virtues also they differ not by the thickness of a nail , they are both scythes for the reaping angel of Death . 
Evil , for which I live , consists not in action but in character . 
And it is not because you have killed a dealer , but because you are Markheim , that I offer to forward your escape . 
'I will lay my heart open to you , answered Markheim . 
'This crime on which you find me is my last . 
On my way to it I have learned many lessons itself is a lesson , a momentous lesson . 
Hitherto I have been driven with revolt to what I would not I was a bond slave to poverty , driven and scourged . 
There are robust virtues that can stand in these temptations mine was not so I had a thirst of pleasure . 
But to day , and out of this deed , I pluck both warning and riches both the power and a fresh resolve to be myself . 
I become in all things a free actor in the world I begin to see myself all changed , these hands the agents of good , this heart at peace . 
There lies my life I have wandered a few years , but now I see once more my city of destination . 
'This time , again , you will lose , replied the visitor quietly . 
'Ah , but I keep back the half ! cried Markheim . 
'That also you will lose , said the other . 
The sweat started upon Markheim's brow . 
'Well , then , what matter ? he exclaimed . 
I do not love the one thing , I love all . 
I can conceive great deeds , renunciations , martyrdoms and though I be fallen to such a crime as murder , pity is no stranger to my thoughts . 
But the visitant raised his finger . 
'For six and thirty years that you have been in this world , said be , 'through many changes of fortune and varieties of humour , I have watched you steadily fall . 
Fifteen years ago you would have started at a theft . 
Three years back you would have blenched at the name of murder . 
'It is true , Markheim said huskily , 'I have in some degree complied with evil . 
But it is so with all the very saints , in the mere exercise of living , grow less dainty , and take on the tone of their surroundings . 
'I will propound to you one simple question , said the other 'and as you answer , I shall read to you your moral horoscope . 
You have grown in many things more lax possibly you do right to be so and at any account , it is the same with all men . 
'No , he added , with despair , 'in none ! I have gone down in all . 
'Then , said the visitor , 'content yourself with what you are , for you will never change and the words of your part on this stage are irrevocably written down . 
Markheim stood for a long while silent , and indeed it was the visitor who first broke the silence . 
'That being so , he said , 'shall I show you the money ? 'And grace ? cried Markheim . 
'Have you not tried it ? returned the other . 
I thank you for these lessons from my soul my eyes are opened , and I behold myself at last for what I am . 
'The maid ! he cried . 
'She has returned , as I forewarned you , and there is now before you one more difficult passage . 
Thenceforward you have the whole evening the whole night , if needful to ransack the treasures of the house and to make good your safety . 
This is help that comes to you with the mask of danger . 
Up ! he cried 'up , friend your life hangs trembling in the scales up , and act ! Markheim steadily regarded his counsellor . 
'If I be condemned to evil acts , he said , 'there is still one door of freedom open I can cease from action . 
If my life be an ill thing , I can lay it down . 
Though I be , as you say truly , at the beck of every small temptation , I can yet , by one decisive gesture , place myself beyond the reach of all . 
The features of the visitor began to undergo a wonderful and lovely change they brightened and softened with a tender triumph , and , even as they brightened , faded and dislimned . 
But Markheim did not pause to watch or understand the transformation . 
He opened the door and went downstairs very slowly , thinking to himself . 
His past went soberly before him he beheld it as it was , ugly and strenuous like a dream , random as chance medley a scene of defeat . 
Life , as he thus reviewed it , tempted him no longer but on the further side he perceived a quiet haven for his bark . 
He paused in the passage , and looked into the shop , where the candle still burned by the dead body . 
Thoughts of the dealer swarmed into his mind , as he stood gazing . 
And then the bell once more broke out into impatient clamour . 
He confronted the maid upon the threshold with something like a smile . 
'You had better go for the police , said he 'I have killed your master . 
THRAWN JANET THE Reverend Murdoch Soulis was long minister of the moorland parish of Balweary , in the vale of Dule . 
Many young persons , coming to prepare themselves against the season of the Holy Communion , were dreadfully affected by his talk . 
He had a sermon on lst Peter , v . 
The children were frightened into fits , and the old looked more than usually oracular , and were , all that day , full of those hints that Hamlet deprecated . 
There was one spot , to be more particular , which was regarded with especial awe . 
The house was two stories high , with two large rooms on each . 
And it was this strip of causeway that enjoyed among the young parishioners of Balweary so infamous a reputation . 
Now and again , only , one of the older folk would warm into courage over his third tumbler , and recount the cause of the minister's strange looks and solitary life . 
There was nae doubt , onyway , but that Mr. Soulis had been ower lang at the college . 
He was careful and troubled for mony things besides the ae thing needful . 
There was mony advised him to the contrar , for Janet was mair than suspeckit by the best folk in Ba'weary . 
for maybe thretty year and bairns had seen her mumblin' to hersel' up on Key's Loan in the gloamin' , whilk was an unco time an' place for a God fearin' woman . 
Howsoever , it was the laird himsel' that had first tauld the minister o' Janet and in thae days he wad have gane a far gate to pleesure the laird . 
, 'I charge you in the Lord's name to let her go . 
'Woman , says he to Janet , 'is this true ? 'As the Lord sees me , says she , 'as the Lord made me , no a word o't . 
Forbye the bairn , says she , 'I've been a decent woman a' my days . 
'And now , says Mr. Soulis to the guidwives , 'home with ye , one and all , and pray to God for His forgiveness . 
Whiles she wad try to say it , but it michtnae be . 
Them that kenned best said least but they never gied that Thing the name o' Janet M'Clour for the auld Janet , by their way o't , was in muckle hell that day . 
Weel , time gaed by and the idler sort commenced to think mair lichtly o' that black business . 
It was a great howff o' Mr. Soulis's , onyway there he would sit an' consider his sermons and indeed it's a bieldy bit . 
They flew laigh and heavy , an' squawked to ither as they gaed and it was clear to Mr. Soulis that something had put them frae their ordinar . 
He was of a great stature , an' black as hell , and his e'en were singular to see . 
Mr. Soulis had heard tell o' black men , mony's the time but there was something unco about this black man that daunted him . 
He stepped out upon the road , but there was naebody there he gaed a' ower the gairden , but na , nae black man . 
And he aye minded sinsyne , when first he set his een upon her , he had the same cauld and deidly grue . 
'Janet , says he , 'have you seen a black man ? 'A black man ? quo' she . 
'Save us a' ! Ye're no wise , minister . 
There's nae black man in a Ba'weary . 
But she didnae speak plain , ye maun understand but yam yammered , like a powney wi' the bit in its moo . 
'Weel , says he , 'Janet , if there was nae black man , I have spoken with the Accuser of the Brethren . 
And he sat down like ane wi' a fever , an' his teeth chittered in his heid . 
'Hoots , says she , 'think shame to yoursel' , minister an' gied him a drap brandy that she keept aye by her . 
Syne Mr. Soulis gaed into his study amang a' his books . 
It's a lang , laigh , mirk chalmer , perishin' cauld in winter , an' no very dry even in the tap o' the simmer , for the manse stands near the burn . 
Aye the mair he thocht , the mair he thocht o' the black man . 
The upshot was that he gaed to the window an' stood glowrin' at Dule water . 
The trees are unco thick , an' the water lies deep an' black under the manse an' there was Janct washin' the cla'es wi' her coats kilted . 
She had her back to the minister , an' he , for his pairt , hardly kenned what he was lookin' at . 
He drew back a pickle and he scanned her narrowly . 
She was tramp trampin' in the cla'es , croonin' to hersel' and eh ! Gude guide us , but it was a fearsome face . 
There gaed a scunner through the flesh upon his banes and that was Heeven's advertisement . 
That was a nicht that has never been forgotten in Ba'weary , the nicht o' the seeventeenth of August , seventeen hun'er' an twal' . 
It had been het afore , as I hae said , but that nicht it was hetter than ever . 
Wi' a' that he had upon his mind , it was gey and unlikely Mr. Soulis wad get muckle sleep . 
He behoved , he judged , to be sick an' sick he was little he jaloosed the sickness . 
Mr. Soulis was feared for neither man nor deevil . 
He got his tinder box , an' lit a can'le , an' made three steps o't ower to Janet's door . 
It was on the hasp , an' he pushed it open , an' keeked bauldly in . 
It was a big room , as big as the minister's ain , an' plenished wi' grand , auld , solid gear , for he had naething else . 
But nae Janet could Mr. Soulis see nor ony sign of a contention . 
an' lookit a' round , an' listened . 
But there was naethin' to be heard , neither inside the manse nor in a' Ba'weary parish , an' naethin' to be seen but the muckle shadows turnin' round the can'le . 
An' then a' at aince , the minister's heart played dunt an' stood stock still an' a cauld wund blew amang the hairs o' his heid . 
'God forgive us all ! thocht Mr. Soulis 'poor Janet's dead . 
He cam' a step nearer to the corp an' then his heart fair whammled in his inside . 
For by what cantrip it wad ill beseem a man to judge , she was hingin' frae a single nail an' by a single wursted thread for darnin' hose . 
It's an awfu' thing to be your lane at nicht wi' siccan prodigies o' darkness but Mr. Soulis was strong in the Lord . 
He couldnae pray , he couldnae think , he was dreepin' wi' caul' swat , an' naething could he hear but the dunt dunt duntin' o' his ain heart . 
, and as saftly as ever he could , gaed straucht out o' the manse an' to the far end o' the causeway . 
He kenned the foot over weel , for it was Janet's and at ilka step that cam' a wee thing nearer , the cauld got deeper in his vitals . 
He commanded his soul to Him that made an' keepit him 'and O Lord , said he , 'give me strength this night to war against the powers of evil . 
By this time the foot was comin' through the passage for the door he could hear a hand skirt alang the wa' , as if the fearsome thing was feelin' for its way . 
It's a strange thing that the saul of man should be that thirled into his perishable body but the minister saw that , an' his heart didnae break . 
She didnae stand there lang she began to move again an' cam' slowly towards Mr. Soulis whaur he stood under the saughs . 
A' the life o' his body , a' the strength o' his speerit , were glowerin' frae his een . 
It seemed she was gaun to speak , but wanted words , an' made a sign wi' the left hand . 
There's little doubt but it was him that dwalled sae lang in Janet's body but he was awa' at last and sinsyne the deil has never fashed us in Ba'weary . 
But it was a sair dispensation for the minister lang , lang he lay ravin' in his bed and frae that hour to this , he was the man ye ken the day . 
OLALLA 'Now , said the doctor , 'my part is done , and , I may say , with some vanity , well done . 
It remains only to get you out of this cold and poisonous city , and to give you two months of a pure air and an easy conscience . 
The last is your affair . 
To the first I think I can help you . 
Nothing now belongs to them but the residencia , and certain leagues of desert mountain , in the greater part of which not even a goat could support life . 
Instantly the Padre's face grew dark , as I had maliciously foreseen it would . 
It was out of the question , he said . 
Then let them starve , said I , for I have no sympathy with tatterdemalion pride . 
I closed with the offer and , subject to your approval , I have taken rooms for you in the residencia . 
The air of these mountains will renew your blood and the quiet in which you will there live is worth all the medicines in the world . 
'Doctor , said I , 'you have been throughout my good angel , and your advice is a command . 
But tell me , if you please , something of the family with which I am to reside . 
'I am coming to that , replied my friend 'and , indeed , there is a difficulty in the way . 
You are to remain , they say , a stranger they will give you attendance , but they refuse from the first the idea of the smallest intimacy . 
I will not deny that I was piqued , and perhaps the feeling strengthened my desire to go , for I was confident that I could break down that barrier if I desired . 
'There is nothing offensive in such a stipulation , said I 'and I even sympathise with the feeling that inspired it . 
, they would doubtless make you welcome with a better grace . 
But since you take the thing so well , it matters not . 
To me , indeed , it seems discourteous . 
But you will find yourself the gainer . 
The family will not much tempt you . 
'And yet you say they are high born , I objected . 
'Well , as to that , I should distinguish , returned the doctor . 
'The mother is not so the children . 
The mother was the last representative of a princely stock , degenerate both in parts and fortune . 
Her father was not only poor , he was mad and the girl ran wild about the residencia till his death . 
Felipe , for instance , I have seen . 
And what am I to say ? He is very rustic , very cunning , very loutish , and , I should say , an innocent the others are probably to match . 
I had been so long a prisoner , since I was left behind for dying after the loss of the convoy , that the mere smell of the earth set me smiling . 
by the senses , taken and possessed by the visual object of the moment and unable to discharge their minds of that impression . 
a kind of conversation proper to drivers , who pass much of their time in a great vacancy of the intellect and threading the sights of a familiar country . 
'A crow ? I repeated , struck by the ineptitude of the remark , and thinking I had heard imperfectly . 
Then he smiled and shook his head . 
'What did you hear ? I asked . 
'O , it is all right , he said and began encouraging his mule with cries that echoed unhumanly up the mountain walls . 
I looked at him more closely . 
It was his mind that puzzled , and yet attracted me . 
The waters thundered tumultuously in the bottom and the ravine was filled full of the sound , the thin spray , and the claps of wind , that accompanied their descent . 
'What is the matter ? I asked . 
'O , I am afraid , he replied . 
'Of what are you afraid ? I returned . 
'This seems one of the safest places on this very dangerous road . 
'It makes a noise , he said , with a simplicity of awe that set my doubts at rest . 
'A fine room , he said 'a very fine room . 
And fire , too fire is good it melts out the pleasure in your bones . 
and walked back to the supper table , where , perceiving a measure of wine , I poured out a cup and called to him to come and drink of it . 
He started to his feet at once and ran to me with a strong expression of hope but when he saw the wine , he visibly shuddered . 
'Oh , no , he said , 'not that that is for you . 
'Very well , Senor , said I 'then I will drink to your good health , and to the prosperity of your house and family . 
It represented a woman , still young . 
Day after day the double knowledge of her wickedness and of my weakness grew clearer . 
She came to be the heroine of many day dreams , in which her eyes led on to , and sufficiently rewarded , crimes . 
And yet I had a half lingering terror that she might not be dead after all , but re arisen in the body of some descendant . 
Felipe served my meals in my own apartment and his resemblance to the portrait haunted me . 
At times it was not at times , upon some change of attitude or flash of expression , it would leap out upon me like a ghost . 
It was above all in his ill tempers that the likeness triumphed . 
But for all that , he was capable of flashes of causeless anger and fits of sturdy sullenness . 
I was not unnaturally curious , being in a strange place and surrounded by string people but at the shadow of a question , he shrank back , lowering and dangerous . 
Then it was that , for a fraction of a second , this rough lad might have been the brother of the lady in the frame . 
But these humours were swift to pass and the resemblance died along with them . 
As a matter of fact , it was for some time irksome but it happened before long that I obtained over him so complete a mastery as set my disquietude at rest . 
It fell in this way . 
But while I admired , I wondered what had called forth in a lad so shuttle witted this enduring sense of duty . 
It was a fine day , and the woods to which I led him were green and pleasant and sweet smelling and alive with the hum of insects . 
Here he discovered himself in a fresh character , mounting up to heights of gaiety that abashed me , and displaying an energy and grace of movement that delighted the eye . 
By some swiftness or dexterity the lad captured a squirrel in a tree top . 
He was then some way ahead of me , but I saw him drop to the ground and crouch there , crying aloud for pleasure like a child . 
The sound stirred my sympathies , it was so fresh and innocent but as I bettered my pace to draw near , the cry of the squirrel knocked upon my heart . 
I have heard and seen much of the cruelty of lads , and above all of peasants but what I now beheld struck me into a passion of anger . 
I thrust the fellow aside , plucked the poor brute out of his hands , and with swift mercy killed it . 
'O , I try so hard , he said . 
'See , Felipe , said I , 'you are strong indeed but in my hands you are as helpless as that poor thing of the trees . 
Give me your hand in mine . 
Now suppose that I were cruel like you , and took a pleasure in pain . 
I only tighten my hold , and see how you suffer . 
Meanwhile I gained rapidly in health . 
I delighted from the first in the vigorous scenery and changeful weather nor less in the antique and dilapidated mansion where I dwelt . 
This was a large oblong , flanked at two opposite corners by bastion like projections , one of which commanded the door , while both were loopholed for musketry . 
The lower storey was , besides , naked of windows , so that the building , if garrisoned , could not be carried without artillery . 
It enclosed an open court planted with pomegranate trees . 
From this a broad flight of marble stairs ascended to an open gallery , running all round and resting , towards the court , on slender pillars . 
Thence again , several enclosed stairs led to the upper storeys of the house , which were thus broken up into distinct divisions . 
The court , in particular , seemed the very home of slumber . 
At the ground level there was , however , a certain pillared recess , which bore the marks of human habitation . 
It was in this place that I first saw my hostess . 
She had drawn one of the skins forward and sat in the sun , leaning against a pillar . 
At a second look it was her beauty of person that took hold of me . 
I answered rather at a venture for not only did I fail to take her meaning with precision , but the sudden disclosure of her eyes disturbed me . 
the singular insignificance of their regard . 
A look more blankly stupid I have never met . 
My eyes dropped before it even as I spoke , and I went on my way upstairs to my own room , at once baffled and embarrassed . 
Yet , when I came there and saw the face of the portrait , I was again reminded of the miracle of family descent . 
And yet there was a likeness , not so much speaking as immanent , not so much in any particular feature as upon the whole . 
These , I think , were her two chief pleasures , beyond that of mere quiescence . 
she greatly delighted now of the flowers of the pomegranate trees , and now of the white doves and long winged swallows that fanned the air of the court . 
But for the rest of her days she lay luxuriously folded on herself and sunk in sloth and pleasure . 
I had come to like her dull , almost animal neighbourhood her beauty and her stupidity soothed and amused me . 
I began to find a kind of transcendental good sense in her remarks , and her unfathomable good nature moved me to admiration and envy . 
The liking was returned she enjoyed my presence half unconsciously , as a man in deep meditation may enjoy the babbling of a brook . 
And one day , as I set within reach of her on the marble step , she suddenly shot forth one of her hands and patted mine . 
It was plain she attached no moment to the act , and I blamed myself for my own more uneasy consciousness . 
the acquaintance of the mother confirmed the view I had already taken of the son . 
The family blood had been impoverished , perhaps by long inbreeding , which I knew to be a common error among the proud and the exclusive . 
Yet of the two , it was the mother I preferred . 
Of Felipe , vengeful and placable , full of starts and shyings , inconstant as a hare , I could even conceive as a creature possibly noxious . 
Of the mother I had no thoughts but those of kindness . 
And indeed , as spectators are apt ignorantly to take sides , I grew something of a partisan in the enmity which I perceived to smoulder between them . 
True , it seemed mostly on the mother's part . 
She would sometimes draw in her breath as he came near , and the pupils of her vacant eyes would contract as if with horror or fear . 
I had been about ten days in the residencia , when there sprang up a high and harsh wind , carrying clouds of dust . 
It came out of malarious lowlands , and over several snowy sierras . 
It did not so much blow in gusts as with the steady sweep of a waterfall , so that there was no remission of discomfort while it blew . 
I no sooner awoke in bed than I was conscious of the nervous tension and depression of the weather , and the effect grew stronger as the day proceeded . 
In the recess the Senora was pacing to and fro with a flushed countenance and bright eyes I thought , too , she was speaking to herself , like one in anger . 
But when I addressed her with my customary salutation , she only replied by a sharp gesture and continued her walk . 
The weather had distempered even this impassive creature and as I went on upstairs I was the less ashamed of my own discomposure . 
All day the wind continued and I sat in my room and made a feint of reading , or walked up and down , and listened to the riot overhead . 
Night fell , and I had not so much as a candle . 
I began to long for some society , and stole down to the court . 
It was now plunged in the blue of the first darkness but the recess was redly lighted by the fire . 
The wood had been piled high , and was crowned by a shock of flames , which the draught of the chimney brandished to and fro . 
to take off the edge from my distasteful solitude . 
But on Felipe , also , the wind had exercised its influence . 
He had been feverish all day now that the night had come he was fallen into a low and tremulous humour that reacted on my own . 
The sight of his scared face , his starts and pallors and sudden harkenings , unstrung me and when he dropped and broke a dish , I fairly leaped out of my seat . 
'I think we are all mad to day , said I , affecting to laugh . 
'It is the black wind , he replied dolefully . 
'You feel as if you must do something , and you don't know what it is . 
I noted the aptness of the description but , indeed , Felipe had sometimes a strange felicity in rendering into words the sensations of the body . 
'And your mother , too , said I 'she seems to feel this weather much . 
'Who can be well ? he cried and , indeed , I could only echo his question , for I was disturbed enough myself . 
I went to bed early , wearied with day long restlessness , but the poisonous nature of the wind , and its ungodly and unintermittent uproar , would not suffer me to sleep . 
I lay there and tossed , my nerves and senses on the stretch . 
At times I would doze , dream horribly , and wake again and these snatches of oblivion confused me as to time . 
But it must have been late on in the night , when I was suddenly startled by an outbreak of pitiable and hateful cries . 
It was no illusion some living thing , some lunatic or some wild animal , was being foully tortured . 
I stood at the door and gave ear to them , till at , last they died away . 
It was little wonder if I slept no more . 
Why had I been locked in ? What had passed ? Who was the author of these indescribable and shocking cries ? A human being ? It was inconceivable . 
it seemed altogether insufficient not even cruelty could wring such cries from madness . 
The next day came , the wind had blown itself out , and there was nothing to remind me of the business of the night . 
All morning I went from one door to another , and entered spacious and faded chambers , some rudely shuttered , some receiving their full charge of daylight , all empty and unhomely . 
It was a rich house , on which Time had breathed his tarnish and dust had scattered disillusion . 
I could judge , by these decaying effigies , in the house of what a great and what a handsome race I was then wandering . 
Many of the men wore orders on their breasts and had the port of noble offices the women were all richly attired the canvases most of them by famous hands . 
It was rather the parable of family life that I read in this succession of fair faces and shapely bodies . 
Never before had I so realised the miracle of the continued race , the creation and recreation , the weaving and changing and handing down of fleshly elements . 
At last , in the course of these investigations , I opened the door of a chamber that bore the marks of habitation . 
It was of large proportions and faced to the north , where the mountains were most wildly figured . 
The embers of a fire smouldered and smoked upon the hearth , to which a chair had been drawn close . 
They were of all sorts , devotional , historical , and scientific , but mostly of a great age and in the Latin tongue . 
Some I could see to bear the marks of constant study others had been torn across and tossed aside as if in petulance or disapproval . 
Lastly , as I cruised about that empty chamber , I espied some papers written upon with pencil on a table near the window . 
An unthinking curiosity led me to take one up . 
Neither Felipe nor his mother could have read the books nor written these rough but feeling verses . 
It was plain I had stumbled with sacrilegious feet into the room of the daughter of the house . 
God knows , my own heart most sharply punished me for my indiscretion . 
That same afternoon , as I sat upon my knoll , I saw the Padre enter the gates of the residencia . 
The revelation of the daughter's character had struck home to my fancy , and almost blotted out the horrors of the night before but at sight of this worthy man the memory revived . 
I descended , then , from the knoll , and making a circuit among the woods , posted myself by the wayside to await his passage . 
As soon as he appeared I stepped forth and introduced myself as the lodger of the residencia . 
Of the family at the residencia he spoke with reserve , and yet with respect . 
I mentioned that I had not yet seen the daughter , whereupon he remarked that that was as it should be , and looked at me a little askance . 
Lastly , I plucked up courage to refer to the cries that had disturbed me in the night . 
He heard me out in silence , and then stopped and partly turned about , as though to mark beyond doubt that he was dismissing me . 
But he had done two things he had set my conscience at rest , and he had awakened my delicacy . 
I made a great effort , once more dismissed the recollections of the night , and fell once more to brooding on my saintly poetess . 
'I never see your sister , said I casually . 
'Oh , no , said he 'she is a good , good girl , and his mind instantly veered to something else . 
'Your sister is pious , I suppose ? I asked in the next pause . 
'Oh ! he cried , joining his hands with extreme fervour , 'a saint it is she that keeps me up . 
'You are very fortunate , said I , 'for the most of us , I am afraid , and myself among the number , are better at going down . 
'Senor , said Felipe earnestly , 'I would not say that . 
You should not tempt your angel . 
'And I told her you had done so I remembered that , he added proudly 'and she was pleased . 
'Then , Felipe , said I , 'what were those cries that I heard last night ? for surely they were cries of some creature in suffering . 
'The wind , returned Felipe , looking in the fire . 
I took his hand in mine , at which , thinking it to be a caress , he smiled with a brightness of pleasure that came near disarming my resolve . 
But I trod the weakness down . 
'The wind , I repeated 'and yet I think it was this hand , holding it up , 'that had first locked me in . 
The lad shook visibly , but answered never a word . 
'Well , said I , 'I am a stranger and a guest . 
It is not my part either to meddle or to judge in your affairs in these you shall take your sister's counsel , which I cannot doubt to be excellent . 
But in so far as concerns my own I will be no man's prisoner , and I demand that key . 
Half an hour later my door was suddenly thrown open , and the key tossed ringing on the floor . 
A day or two after I came in from a walk a little before the point of noon . 
Something in the stillness moved me to imitation , and I went very lightly across the court and up the marble staircase . 
My foot was on the topmost round , when a door opened , and I found myself face to face with Olalla . 
I know not how long it was before I awoke out of a deep trance , and , hastily bowing , passed on into the upper stair . 
She did not move , but followed me with her great , thirsting eyes and as I passed out of sight it seemed to me as if she paled and faded . 
She passed through my veins she was one with me . 
I will not say that this enthusiasm declined rather my soul held out in its ecstasy as in a strong castle , and was there besieged by cold and sorrowful considerations . 
I could not doubt but that I loved her at first sight , and already with a quivering ardour that was strange to my experience . 
What then was to follow ? She was the child of an afflicted house , the Senora's daughter , the sister of Felipe she bore it even in her beauty . 
To flee was more than I could find courage for but I registered a vow of unsleeping circumspection . 
As I turned from the window , my eyes alighted on the portrait . 
It had fallen dead , like a candle after sunrise it followed me with eyes of paint . 
I knew it to be like , and marvelled at the tenacity of type in that declining race but the likeness was swallowed up in difference . 
I did not see her the next day , and my heart ached and my eyes longed for her , as men long for morning . 
But the day after , when I returned , about my usual hour , she was once more on the gallery , and our looks once more met and embraced . 
I had now her image by rote , and as I conned the traits in memory it seemed as if I read her very heart . 
She was dressed with something of her mother's coquetry , and love of positive colour . 
Her robe , which I know she must have made with her own hands , clung about her with a cunning grace . 
These were proofs , had any been needed , of her inborn delight in life and her own loveliness . 
It was a lovely body , but the inmate , the soul , was more than worthy of that lodging . 
A third day passed in vain an empty desert of hours . 
I spoke more than usual with the Senora . 
Even while I spoke with her , she would doze off into a little sleep , and presently awake again without embarrassment and this composure staggered me . 
She lived in her body and her consciousness was all sunk into and disseminated through her members , where it luxuriously dwelt . 
Lastly , I could not grow accustomed to her eyes . 
I tried her on a variety of subjects , equally in vain and at last led the talk to her daughter . 
'People speak much , very much , she added , looking at me with expanded pupils and then again yawned and again showed me a mouth that was as dainty as a toy . 
I awoke on the fifth morning with a brightness of anticipation that seemed to challenge fate . 
I was sure of myself , light of heart and foot , and resolved to put my love incontinently to the touch of knowledge . 
I thought of it with wild hopes , like a voyager to El Dorado into that unknown and lovely country of her soul , I no longer trembled to adventure . 
She drew back from me a little as I came but her eyes did not waver from mine , and these lured me forward . 
At last , when I was already within reach of her , I stopped . 
But on her side , it struck me almost cold . 
It was not thus that I desired to be loved . 
And then I began to fall into a great pity for the girl herself . 
Yet I was prostrated with sadness . 
My heart wept for the sight of Olalla , as a child weeps for its mother . 
I sat down on a boulder on the verge of the low cliffs that bound the plateau to the north . 
Thence I looked down into the wooded valley of a stream , where no foot came . 
And then suddenly I was aware of Olalla drawing near . 
She appeared out of a grove of cork trees , and came straight towards me and I stood up and waited . 
She seemed in her walking a creature of such life and fire and lightness as amazed me yet she came quietly and slowly . 
Her energy was in the slowness but for inimitable strength , I felt she would have run , she would have flown to me . 
Still , as she approached , she kept her eyes lowered to the ground and when she had drawn quite near , it was without one glance that she addressed me . 
At the first note of her voice I started . 
It was for this I had been waiting this was the last test of my love . 
She spoke in a rich chord golden contralto strains mingled with hoarseness , as the red threads were mingled with the brown among her tresses . 
It was not only a voice that spoke to my heart directly but it spoke to me of her . 
And yet her words immediately plunged me back upon despair . 
'You will go away , she said , 'to day . 
Her example broke the bonds of my speech I felt as lightened of a weight , or as if a spell had been dissolved . 
We should be mad rebels , I cried out 'mad rebels against God , not to obey this instinct . 
I stretched out my arms and called upon her name and she leaped to me and clung to me . 
The hills rocked about us , the earth quailed a shock as of a blow went through me and left me blind and dizzy . 
And the next moment she had thrust me back , broken rudely from my arms , and fled with the speed of a deer among the cork trees . 
I stood and shouted to the mountains I turned and went back towards the residencia , waltzing upon air . 
She sent me away , and yet I had but to call upon her name and she came to me . 
These were but the weaknesses of girls , from which even she , the strangest of her sex , was not exempted . 
Go ? Not I , Olalla O , not I , Olalla , my Olalla ! A bird sang near by and in that season , birds were rare . 
It bade me be of good cheer . 
I felt the thrill of travail and delight run through the earth . 
Love burned in me like rage tenderness waxed fierce I hated , I adored , I pitied , I revered her with ecstasy . 
My head thus reeling , I came into the courtyard of the residencia , and the sight of the mother struck me like a revelation . 
I stopped a moment , and , commanding such shaken tones as I was able , said a word or two . 
The vacancy thus suddenly opened in my life unmanned me like a physical void . 
It was not my heart , it was not my happiness , it was life itself that was involved . 
I could not lose her . 
I said so , and stood repeating it . 
And then , like one in a dream , I moved to the window , put forth my hand to open the casement , and thrust it through the pane . 
The blood spurted from my wrist and with an instantaneous quietude and command of myself , I pressed my thumb on the little leaping fountain , and reflected what to do . 
In that empty room there was nothing to my purpose I felt , besides , that I required assistance . 
There shot into my mind a hope that Olalla herself might be my helper , and I turned and went down stairs , still keeping my thumb upon the wound . 
'Pardon me , said I , 'if I disturb you , but I must apply to you for help . 
'I have cut myself , I said , 'and rather badly . 
See ! And I held out my two hands from which the blood was oozing and dripping . 
Her great eyes opened wide , the pupils shrank into points a veil seemed to fall from her face , and leave it sharply expressive and yet inscrutable . 
A trance like weakness fell upon me I saw , heard , and felt , but I was incapable of movement . 
I heard the struggle roll to and fro upon the floor , the yells of that catamount ringing up to Heaven as she strove to reach me . 
Then I saw her hasten to the door and lock it , and stand an instant listening to the savage cries that shook the residencia . 
Yes , they were beautiful sounds , and they were inspired by human tenderness but was their beauty human ? All day I lay there . 
When the cries had ceased , there came a scraping at the door , by which I knew Felipe was without and Olalla went and spoke to him I know not what . 
With that exception , she stayed close beside me , now kneeling by my bed and fervently praying , now sitting with her eyes upon mine . 
So then , for these six hours I drank in her beauty , and silently perused the story in her face . 
To lie thus in deadly weakness and drink in the traits of the beloved , is to reawake to love from whatever shock of disillusion . 
I reasoned with myself and I shut my eyes on horrors , and again I was very bold to accept the worst . 
She knelt down awhile and prayed , and I devoutly respected her devotions . 
The moon had begun to shine in upon one side of each of the three windows , and make a misty clearness in the room , by which I saw her indistinctly . 
When she rearose she made the sign of the cross . 
'It is for me to speak , she said , 'and for you to listen . 
I know you can but guess . 
I prayed , how I prayed for you to leave this place . 
I begged it of you , and I know you would have granted me even this or if not , O let me think so ! 'I love you , I said . 
'And yet you have lived in the world , she said after a pause , 'you are a man and wise and I am but a child . 
It is we who sit at home with evil who remember , I think , and are warned and pity . 
Go , rather , go now , and keep me in mind . 
So I shall have a life in the cherished places of your memory a life as much my own , as that which I lead in this body . 
'I love you , I said once more and reaching out my weak hand , took hers , and carried it to my lips , and kissed it . 
Nor did she resist , but winced a little and I could see her look upon me with a frown that was not unkindly , only sad and baffled . 
'There , she cried , 'you feel the very footfall of my life . 
It only moves for you it is yours . 
, somewhere apart , an impotent prisoner , and carried about and deafened by a mob that I disown . 
Yet when you spoke to me your words were of the soul it is of the soul that you ask it is only from the soul that you would take me . 
'Olalla , I said , 'the soul and the body are one , and mostly so in love . 
is only the footstool and foundation of the highest . 
But , look again there is my hand to the least line , there are my eyes and my hair . 
We speak of the soul , but the soul is in the race . 
'You fret against the common law , I said . 
'You rebel against the voice of God , which he has made so winning to convince , so imperious to command . 
Man has risen if he has sprung from the brutes , he can descend again to the same level . 
I speak to you as I dare but you have seen for yourself how the wheel has gone backward with my doomed race . 
At this hour my brother is making ready his foot will soon be on the stair and you will go with him and pass out of my sight for ever . 
What I might have done had not I lain bound by my extreme weakness , I know not but as it was there fell upon me a great and blank despair . 
There was such kindness in the touch , and such a simplicity , as of the brutes , that tears broke from me like the bursting of an artery . 
'Felipe , I said , 'take me where they will ask no questions . 
I did not affect ignorance I knew he must have seen Olalla . 
'Sir , said I , 'you know that I do not ask in wantonness . 
What of that family ? He said they were very unfortunate that it seemed a declining race , and that they were very poor and had been much neglected . 
'But she has not , I said . 
'Thanks , doubtless , to yourself , she is instructed and wise beyond the use of women . 
'Yes , he said 'the Senorita is well informed . 
But the family has been neglected . 
'The mother ? I queried . 
'Yes , the mother too , said the Padre , taking snuff . 
'But Felipe is a well intentioned lad . 
'The mother is odd ? I asked . 
'Very odd , replied the priest . 
'I think , sir , we beat about the bush , said I. 'You must know more of my affairs than you allow . 
You must know my curiosity to be justified on many grounds . 
It is a great mystery . 
'Is she mad ? I asked . 
'I will answer you according to my belief . 
She is not , returned the Padre , 'or she was not . 
But these things go on growing , not only in the individual but in the race . 
'God forbid that any man should think so slightingly of my favourite penitent . 
has not a hair's resemblance to what her mother was at the same age . 
I could not bear to have you think so though , Heaven knows , it were , perhaps , better that you should . 
He heard me very patiently and without surprise and when I had done , he sat for some time silent . 
Then he began 'The church , and instantly broke off again to apologise . 
'I had forgotten , my child , that you were not a Christian , said he . 
'And indeed , upon a point so highly unusual , even the church can scarce be said to have decided . 
But would you have my opinion ? The Senorita is , in a matter of this kind , the best judge I would accept her judgment . 
The villagers , too , avoided me they were unwilling to be my guides upon the mountain . 
I thought they looked at me askance , and I made sure that the more superstitious crossed themselves on my approach . 
All men despise the savage notions of such peasantry and yet I was conscious of a chill shadow that seemed to fall and dwell upon my love . 
It did not conquer , but I may not deify that it restrained my ardour . 
Some miles westward of the village there was a gap in the sierra , from which the eye plunged direct upon the residencia and thither it became my daily habit to repair . 
This distant post , these interrupted sights of the place where my life had been so strangely changed , suited the indecision of my humour . 
One day , as I was sitting on my rock , there came by that way a somewhat gaunt peasant wrapped in a mantle . 
'Do you know that house ? I inquired , at last , pointing to the residencia , for I readily wearied of any talk that kept me from the thought of Olalla . 
He looked at me darkly and crossed himself . 
I have passed its doors . 
There was snow upon the pass , the wind was driving it sure enough there was death that night upon the mountains , but there was worse beside the hearth . 
I cried out aloud to God , and threw my arms about him , but he put me by , and left me alone . 
He had made his choice God help us . 
I would pray for him , but to what end ? there are sins that not even the Pope can loose . 
'And your friend , I asked , 'what became of him ? 'Nay , God knows , said the muleteer . 
'If all be true that we hear , his end was like his sin , a thing to raise the hair . 
'Do you mean that he was killed ? I asked . 
'Sure enough , he was killed , returned the man . 
'But how ? Ay , how ? But these are things that it is sin to speak of . 
'The people of that house . 
But he interrupted me with a savage outburst . 
'The people ? he cried . 
It was rather the application that appalled me . 
This was wrong but it should be so no more . 
He left me filled with horror and fear . 
Which way to turn I knew not whether first to warn the Padre , or to carry my ill news direct to the threatened inhabitants of the residencia . 
Fate was to decide for me for , while I was still hesitating , I beheld the veiled figure of a woman drawing near to me up the pathway . 
No veil could deceive my penetration by every line and every movement I recognised Olalla and keeping hidden behind a corner of the rock , I suffered her to gain the summit . 
She knew me and paused , but did not speak I , too , remained silent and we continued for some time to gaze upon each other with a passionate sadness . 
'I thought you had gone , she said at length . 
'It is all that you can do for me to go . 
It is all I ever asked of you . 
I saw she was already informed of her danger , and I rejoiced at it . 
'Olalla , I said , 'I am ready to go this day , this very hour , but not alone . 
The silence was only broken by the wailing of some large birds that circled sidelong , as if in surprise or alarm , about the summit of the hills . 
'I have laid my hand upon the cross , she said . 
'The Padre says you are no Christian but look up for a moment with my eyes , and behold the face of the Man of Sorrows . 
Like Him , we must endure for a little while , until morning returns bringing peace . 
The face looked down upon me with a painful and deadly contraction but the rays of a glory encircled it , and reminded me that the sacrifice was voluntary . 
CHAPTER I. BY THE DYING MOUNTEBANK . 
They had sent for the doctor from Bourron before six . 
About eight some villagers came round for the performance , and were told how matters stood . 
It seemed a liberty for a mountebank to fall ill like real people , and they made off again in dudgeon . 
By ten Madame Tentaillon was gravely alarmed , and had sent down the street for Doctor Desprez . 
The Doctor was at work over his manuscripts in one corner of the little dining room , and his wife was asleep over the fire in another , when the messenger arrived . 
'Sapristi ! said the Doctor , 'you should have sent for me before . 
It was a case for hurry . 
And he followed the messenger as he was , in his slippers and skull cap . 
The mountebank lay on his back upon a pallet a large man , with a Quixotic nose inflamed with drinking . 
These three were the only occupants , except the shadows . 
The mountebank's profile was enlarged upon the wall in caricature , and it was strange to see his nose shorten and lengthen as the flame was blown about by draughts . 
As for Madame Tentaillon , her shadow was no more than a gross hump of shoulders , with now and again a hemisphere of head . 
The chair legs were spindled out as long as stilts , and the boy set perched atop of them , like a cloud , in the corner of the roof . 
It was the boy who took the Doctor's fancy . 
He had a great arched skull , the forehead and the hands of a musician , and a pair of haunting eyes . 
It was not merely that these eyes were large , or steady , or the softest ruddy brown . 
There was a look in them , besides , which thrilled the Doctor , and made him half uneasy . 
He was sure he had seen such a look before , and yet he could not remember how or where . 
It was as if this boy , who was quite a stranger to him , had the eyes of an old friend or an old enemy . 
But , for all that , his eyes kept following the Doctor about the room with a thoughtful fixity of gaze . 
Desprez could not tell whether he was fascinating the boy , or the boy was fascinating him . 
At last the Doctor hit on the solution at a leap . 
He remembered the look now . 
and to explain away his interest . 
The boy was not in the least put out , but looked placidly back at the Doctor . 
'Is this your father ? asked Desprez . 
'Oh , no , returned the boy 'my master . 
'Are you fond of him ? continued the Doctor . 
'No , sir , said the boy . 
Madame Tentaillon and Desprez exchanged expressive glances . 
'That is bad , my man , resumed the latter , with a shade of sternness . 
'Every one should be fond of the dying , or conceal their sentiments and your master here is dying . 
The boy was silent for a little , and appeared to be reflecting . 
'You did not know him , he replied at last , 'he was a bad man . 
'He is a little pagan , said the landlady . 
'For that matter , they are all the same , these mountebanks , tumblers , artists , and what not . 
But the Doctor was still scrutinising the little pagan , his eyebrows knotted and uplifted . 
'What is your name ? he asked . 
'Jean Marie , said the lad . 
Desprez leaped upon him with one of his sudden flashes of excitement , and felt his head all over from an ethnological point of view . 
'Celtic , Celtic ! he said . 
'Celtic ! cried Madame Tentaillon , who had perhaps confounded the word with hydrocephalous . 
'Poor lad ! is it dangerous ? 'That depends , returned the Doctor grimly . 
And then once more addressing the boy 'And what do you do for your living , Jean Marie ? he inquired . 
'I tumble , was the answer . 
'So ! Tumble ? repeated Desprez . 
I hazard the guess , Madame Tentaillon , that tumbling is a healthful way of life . 
And have you never done anything else but tumble ? 'Before I learned that , I used to steal , answered Jean Marie gravely . 
'Upon my word ! cried the doctor . 
'You are a nice little man for your age . 
Madame , when my CONFRERE comes from Bourron , you will communicate my unfavourable opinion . 
I am a doctor no longer , I thank God but I have been one . 
Good sleep to you , Jean Marie . 
MORNING TALK DOCTOR DESPREZ always rose early . 
Before the smoke arose , before the first cart rattled over the bridge to the day's labour in the fields , he was to be found wandering in his garden . 
There was no time , he used to say , for making theories like the early morning . 
'I rise earlier than any one else in the village , he once boasted . 
'It is a fair consequence that I know more and wish to do less with my knowledge . 
The Doctor was a connoisseur of sunrises , and loved a good theatrical effect to usher in the day . 
He had a theory of dew , by which he could predict the weather . 
Ever since he had settled at Gretz , he had been growing more and more into the local meteorologist , the unpaid champion of the local climate . 
He thought at first there was no place so healthful in the arrondissement . 
By the end of the second year , he protested there was none so wholesome in the whole department . 
And for some time before he met Jean Marie he had been prepared to challenge all France and the better part of Europe for a rival to his chosen spot . 
'Doctor , he would say 'doctor is a foul word . 
It should not be used to ladies . 
I remark it , as a flaw in our civilisation , that we have not the proper horror of disease . 
Now I , for my part , have washed my hands of it I have renounced my laureation I am no doctor I am only a worshipper of the true goddess Hygieia . 
Rheumatism ! he would cry , on some malapert interruption , 'O , yes , I believe we do have a little rheumatism . 
That could hardly be avoided , you know , on a river . 
And of course the place stands a little low and the meadows are marshy , there's no doubt . 
But , my dear sir , look at Bourron ! Bourron stands high . 
Bourron is close to the forest plenty of ozone there , you would say . 
Well , compared with Gretz , Bourron is a perfect shambles . 
The morning after he had been summoned to the dying mountebank , the Doctor visited the wharf at the tail of his garden , and had a long look at the running water . 
This he called prayer but whether his adorations were addressed to the goddess Hygieia or some more orthodox deity , never plainly appeared . 
The sound of his feet upon the causeway began the business of the day for the village was still sound asleep . 
On one of the posts before Tentaillon's carriage entry he espied a little dark figure perched in a meditative attitude , and immediately recognised Jean Marie . 
'Aha ! he said , stopping before him humorously , with a hand on either knee . 
'So we rise early in the morning , do we ? It appears to me that we have all the vices of a philosopher . 
The boy got to his feet and made a grave salutation . 
'And how is our patient ? asked Desprez . 
It appeared the patient was about the same . 
'And why do you rise early in the morning ? he pursued . 
Jean Marie , after a long silence , professed that he hardly knew . 
'You hardly know ? repeated Desprez . 
'We hardly know anything , my man , until we try to learn . 
Come , push me this inquiry home . 
Do you like it ? 'Yes , said the boy slowly 'yes , I like it . 
'And why do you like it ? continued the Doctor . 
Why do you like it ? 'It is quiet , answered Jean Marie 'and I have nothing to do and then I feel as if I were good . 
Doctor Desprez took a seat on the post at the opposite side . 
He was beginning to take an interest in the talk , for the boy plainly thought before he spoke , and tried to answer truly . 
'It appears you have a taste for feeling good , said the Doctor . 
'Now , there you puzzle me extremely for I thought you said you were a thief and the two are incompatible . 
'Is it very bad to steal ? asked Jean Marie . 
'Such is the general opinion , little boy , replied the Doctor . 
'No but I mean as I stole , explained the other . 
'For I had no choice . 
I think it is surely right to have bread it must be right to have bread , there comes so plain a want of it . 
And then they beat me cruelly if I returned with nothing , he added . 
'I was not ignorant of right and wrong for before that I had been well taught by a priest , who was very kind to me . 
'But it seemed to me , when one had nothing to eat and was beaten , it was a different affair . 
I would not have stolen for tartlets , I believe but any one would steal for baker's bread . 
'And so I suppose , said the Doctor , with a rising sneer , 'you prayed God to forgive you , and explained the case to Him at length . 
'Why , sir ? asked Jean Marie . 
'Your priest would see , however , retorted Desprez . 
'Would he ? asked the boy , troubled for the first time . 
'I should have thought God would have known . 
'Eh ? snarled the Doctor . 
'I should have thought God would have understood me , replied the other . 
'You do not , I see but then it was God that made me think so , was it not ? 'Little boy , little boy , said Dr . 
Desprez , 'I told you already you had the vices of philosophy if you display the virtues also , I must go . 
I am a student of the blessed laws of health , an observer of plain and temperate nature in her common walks and I cannot preserve my equanimity in presence of a monster . 
Do you understand ? 'No , sir , said the boy . 
'I will make my meaning clear to you , replied the doctor . 
Is not that a beautiful colour ? Does it not please the heart ? We have seen it all our lives , until it has grown in with our familiar thoughts . 
'Neither do I like you , returned the Doctor , roughly . 
'I hate all odd people , and you are the most curious little boy in all the world . 
Jean Marie seemed to ponder for a while , and then he raised his head again and looked over at the Doctor with an air of candid inquiry . 
'But are not you a very curious gentleman ? he asked . 
The Doctor threw away his stick , bounded on the boy , clasped him to his bosom , and kissed him on both cheeks . 
'Admirable , admirable imp ! he cried . 
I have bruised my favourite staff in that moment of enthusiasm . 
The injury , however , is not grave . 
He caught the boy looking at him in obvious wonder , embarrassment , and alarm . 
'Hullo ! said he , 'why do you look at me like that ? Egad , I believe the boy despises me . 
Do you despise me , boy ? 'O , no , replied Jean Marie , seriously 'only I do not understand . 
'You must excuse me , sir , returned the Doctor , with gravity 'I am still so young . 
O , hang him ! he added to himself . 
And he took his seat again and observed the boy sardonically . 
'He has spoiled the quiet of my morning , thought he . 
'I shall be nervous all day , and have a febricule when I digest . 
And so he dismissed his pre occupations by an effort of the will which he had long practised , and let his soul roam abroad in the contemplation of the morning . 
He inhaled the air , tasting it critically as a connoisseur tastes a vintage , and prolonging the expiration with hygienic gusto . 
He counted the little flecks of cloud along the sky . 
He followed the movements of the birds round the church tower making long sweeps , hanging poised , or turning airy somersaults in fancy , and beating the wind with imaginary pinions . 
He was recalled to earth rudely by a pained expression on the boy's face . 
'I do not like it , faltered Jean Marie . 
'Oh , come ! cried the Doctor . 
'Possibly you are a performer yourself ? 'I sing better than that , replied the boy . 
The Doctor eyed him for some seconds in stupefaction . 
He was aware that he was angry , and blushed for himself in consequence , which made him angrier . 
'If this is how you address your master ! he said at last , with a shrug and a flourish of his arms . 
'I do not speak to him at all , returned the boy . 
'I do not like him . 
'Then you like me ? snapped Doctor Desprez , with unusual eagerness . 
'I do not know , answered Jean Marie . 
'I shall wish you a good morning , he said . 
'You are too much for me . 
No , boy' shaking his stick at him 'you are not a human being . 
She was imperturbably good natured , but had no idea of self sacrifice . 
It was her brute enjoyment that he rationalised and perhaps vainly imitated . 
Madame Desprez was an artist in the kitchen , and made coffee to a nicety . 
Aline , their single servant , had no other business in the world but to scour and burnish . 
So Doctor Desprez lived in his house like a fatted calf , warmed and cosseted to his heart's content . 
The midday meal was excellent . 
'What is this fortunate circumstance , my friend ? inquired Anastasie , not heeding his protest , which was of daily recurrence . 
'That we have no children , my beautiful , replied the Doctor . 
'I think of it more and more as the years go on , and with more and more gratitude towards the Power that dispenses such afflictions . 
Health flees before their face . 
A pair of professed egoists , like you and me , should avoid offspring , like an infidelity . 
'Indeed ! said she and she laughed . 
'Now , that is like you to take credit for the thing you could not help . 
'My dear , returned the Doctor , solemnly , 'we might have adopted . 
'Never , Doctor , with my consent . 
If the child were my own flesh and blood , I would not say no . 
But to take another person's indiscretion on my shoulders , my dear friend , I have too much sense . 
'Precisely , replied the Doctor . 
And I am all the better pleased with our wisdom , because because He looked at her sharply . 
'Because what ? she asked , with a faint premonition of danger . 
'Because I have found the right person , said the Doctor firmly , 'and shall adopt him this afternoon . 
Anastasie looked at him out of a mist . 
'You have lost your reason , she said and there was a clang in her voice that seemed to threaten trouble . 
'Not so , my dear , he replied 'I retain its complete exercise . 
To the proof instead of attempting to cloak my inconsistency , I have , by way of preparing you , thrown it into strong relief . 
You will there , I think , recognise the philosopher who has the ecstasy to call you wife . 
The fact is , I have been reckoning all this while without an accident . 
I never thought to find a son of my own . 
Now , last night , I found one . 
Do not unnecessarily alarm yourself , my dear he is not a drop of blood to me that I know . 
It is his mind , darling , his mind that calls me father . 
'His mind ! she repeated with a titter between scorn and hysterics . 
He will be strikingly antipathetic to my ever beautiful Anastasie . 
She will never understand him he will never understand her . 
You married the animal side of my nature , dear and it is on the spiritual side that I find my affinity for Jean Marie . 
So much so , that , to be perfectly frank , I stand in some awe of him myself . 
You will easily perceive that I am announcing a calamity for you . 
Do not , he broke out in tones of real solicitude 'do not give way to tears after a meal , Anastasie . 
You will certainly give yourself a false digestion . 
'You know how willing I am to humour you , she said , 'in all reasonable matters . 
Anastasie was aware of defeat she struck her colours instantly . 
'You will break my heart , she sighed . 
'Not in the least , said he . 
'You know I can refuse you nothing , she said , with a last flicker of resistance 'nothing that will make you truly happier . 
But will this ? Are you sure , my husband ? Last night , you say , you found him ! He may be the worst of humbugs . 
'I think not , replied the Doctor . 
'But do not suppose me so unwary as to adopt him out of hand . 
I am , I flatter myself , a finished man of the world I have had all possibilities in view my plan is contrived to meet them all . 
I take the lad as stable boy . 
'You will never do so when the time comes , said his wife 'I know your good heart . 
Six months in the capital , for a man of the Doctor's antecedents and relations , implied no less a calamity than total ruin . 
Anastasie had saved the remainder of his fortune by keeping him strictly in the country . 
About four of the afternoon , the mountebank rendered up his ghost he had never been conscious since his seizure . 
Doctor Desprez was present at his last passage , and declared the farce over . 
Then he took Jean Marie by the shoulder and led him out into the inn garden where there was a convenient bench beside the river . 
Here he sat him down and made the boy place himself on his left . 
Unfortunately it is full of eager , shouldering people moving on and there are very few bakers' shops for so many eaters . 
In return , I have an old horse and chaise , which you would very speedily learn to clean and keep in order . 
Do not hurry yourself to answer , and take it or leave it as you judge aright . 
'I shall be very glad . 
I do not see what else I can do . 
I thank you , sir , most kindly , and I will try to be useful , said the boy . 
'Thank you , said the Doctor warmly , rising at the same time and wiping his brow , for he had suffered agonies while the thing hung in the wind . 
A refusal , after the scene at noon , would have placed him in a ridiculous light before Anastasie . 
I should lie under a water lily and listen to the bells , which must sound most delicately down below . 
That would be a life do you not think so too ? 'Yes , said Jean Marie . 
'And now , he added , 'I will take you to my wife . 
Madame Desprez sat in the dining room in a cool wrapper . 
Though she was a bustling woman , she enjoyed repose between whiles and had a remarkable appetite for sleep . 
The Doctor went through a solemn form of introduction , adding , for the benefit of both parties , 'You must try to like each other for my sake . 
'He is very pretty , said Anastasie . 
'Will you kiss me , my pretty little fellow ? The Doctor was furious , and dragged her into the passage . 
'Are you a fool , Anastasie ? he said . 
'What is all this I hear about the tact of women ? Heaven knows , I have not met with it in my experience . 
You address my little philosopher as if he were an infant . 
He must be spoken to with more respect , I tell you he must not be kissed and Georgy porgy'd like an ordinary child . 
'I only did it to please you , I am sure , replied Anastasie 'but I will try to do better . 
The Doctor apologised for his warmth . 
'But I do wish him , he continued , 'to feel at home among us . 
And really your conduct was so idiotic , my cherished one , and so utterly and distantly out of place , that a saint might have been pardoned a little vehemence in disapproval . 
Do , do try if it is possible for a woman to understand young people but of course it is not , and I waste my breath . 
Hold your tongue as much as possible at least , and observe my conduct narrowly it will serve you for a model . 
Anastasie did as she was bidden , and considered the Doctor's behaviour . 
She observed that he embraced the boy three times in the course of the evening , and managed generally to confound and abash the little fellow out of speech and appetite . 
But she had the true womanly heroism in little affairs . 
Not only did she refrain from the cheap revenge of exposing the Doctor's errors to himself , but she did her best to remove their ill effect on Jean Marie . 
When Desprez went out for his last breath of air before retiring for the night , she came over to the boy's side and took his hand . 
'You must not be surprised nor frightened by my husband's manners , she said . 
'He is the kindest of men , but so clever that he is sometimes difficult to understand . 
You will soon grow used to him , and then you will love him , for that nobody can help . 
As for me , you may be sure , I shall try to make you happy , and will not bother you at all . 
I think we should be excellent friends , you and I. I am not clever , but I am very good natured . 
Will you give me a kiss ? He held up his face , and she took him in her arms and then began to cry . 
The woman had spoken in complaisance but she had warmed to her own words , and tenderness followed . 
THE EDUCATION OF A PHILOSOPHER . 
THE installation of the adopted stable boy was thus happily effected , and the wheels of life continued to run smoothly in the Doctor's house . 
The Doctor was a pattern of regularity . 
All forenoon he worked on his great book , the 'Comparative Pharmacopoeia , or Historical Dictionary of all Medicines , which as yet consisted principally of slips of paper and pins . 
When finished , it was to fill many personable volumes , and to combine antiquarian interest with professional utility . 
After the midday meal and a proper period of digestion , he walked , sometimes alone , sometimes accompanied by Jean Marie for madame would have preferred any hardship rather than walk . 
She was , as I have said , a very busy person , continually occupied about material comforts , and ready to drop asleep over a novel the instant she was disengaged . 
This was the less objectionable , as she never snored or grew distempered in complexion when she slept . 
On the contrary , she looked the very picture of luxurious and appetising ease , and woke without a start to the perfect possession of her faculties . 
I am afraid she was greatly an animal , but she was a very nice animal to have about . 
I fear , however , that in her heart of hearts , madame kindly despised and pitied the boy . 
And it was her indefeasible belief that Jean Marie was dull . 
'Do not mind , she would say 'I , too , am not at all clever , and I can assure you that it makes no difference in life . 
The Doctor's view was naturally different . 
That gentleman never wearied of the sound of his own voice , which was , to say the truth , agreeable enough to hear . 
He now had a listener , who was not so cynically indifferent as Anastasie , and who sometimes put him on his mettle by the most relevant objections . 
Besides , was he not educating the boy ? And education , philosophers are agreed , is the most philosophical of duties . 
Never had the Doctor seen reason to be more content with his endowments . 
Philosophy flowed smoothly from his lips . 
He slipped out of antinomies like a fish , and left his disciple marvelling at the rabbi's depth . 
Moreover , deep down in his heart the Doctor was disappointed with the ill success of his more formal education . 
Now Jean Marie was slow in all things , impenetrable in others and his power of forgetting was fully on a level with his power to learn . 
Therefore the Doctor cherished his peripatetic lectures , to which the boy attended , which he generally appeared to enjoy , and by which he often profited . 
Many and many were the talks they had together and health and moderation proved the subject of the Doctor's divagations . 
To these he lovingly returned . 
'I lead you , he would say , 'by the green pastures . 
My system , my beliefs , my medicines , are resumed in one phrase to avoid excess . 
Blessed nature , healthy , temperate nature , abhors and exterminates excess . 
Human law , in this matter , imitates at a great distance her provisions and we must strive to supplement the efforts of the law . 
Yes , boy , we must be a law to ourselves and for ourselves and for our neighbours lex armata armed , emphatic , tyrannous law . 
Did you remember your cinchona this morning ? Good . 
Cinchona also is a work of nature it is , after all , only the bark of a tree which we might gather for ourselves if we lived in the locality . 
What a world is this ! Though a professed atheist , I delight to bear my testimony to the world . 
Look at the gratuitous remedies and pleasures that surround our path ! The river runs by the garden end , our bath , our fishpond , our natural system of drainage . 
There is a well in the court which sends up sparkling water from the earth's very heart , clean , cool , and , with a little wine , most wholesome . 
The district is notorious for its salubrity rheumatism is the only prevalent complaint , and I myself have never had a touch of it . 
One beautiful June day they sat upon the hill outside the village . 
The river , as blue as heaven , shone here and there among the foliage . 
The indefatigable birds turned and flickered about Gretz church tower . 
Under the bestriding arch of the blue heavens , the place seemed dwindled to a toy . 
It seemed incredible that people dwelt , and could find room to turn or air to breathe , in such a corner of the world . 
The thought came home to the boy , perhaps for the first time , and he gave it words . 
'How small it looks ! he sighed . 
'Ay , replied the Doctor , 'small enough now . 
A thousand chimneys ceased smoking at the curfew bell . 
There were gibbets at the gate as thick as scarecrows . 
Do you know that the walls extended as far as the Commanderie ? Tradition so reports . 
It gratifies me that our old house was the first to rise after the calamity when the town had come to an end , it inaugurated the hamlet . 
'I , too , am glad of that , said Jean Marie . 
'It should be the temple of the humbler virtues , responded the Doctor with a savoury gusto . 
'I do not think I should have forgotten . 
I am sorry you should have lost your fortune . 
'Sorry ? cried the Doctor . 
'Why , I find I have scarce begun your education after all . 
'Precisely , returned the Doctor 'so do I. And , in the same way , I prefer my present moderate fortune to my former wealth . 
Golden mediocrity ! cried the adorable ancients and I subscribe to their enthusiasm . 
I have passionately studied myself the true business of philosophy . 
I know my character as the musician knows the ventages of his flute . 
Should I return to Paris , I should ruin myself gambling nay , I go further I should break the heart of my Anastasie with infidelities . 
This was too much for Jean Marie . 
That a place should so transform the most excellent of men transcended his belief . 
Paris , he protested , was even an agreeable place of residence . 
'Nor when I lived in that city did I feel much difference , he pleaded . 
'What ! cried the Doctor . 
'Did you not steal when you were there ? But the boy could never be brought to see that he had done anything wrong when he stole . 
Nor , indeed , did the Doctor think he had but that gentleman was never very scrupulous when in want of a retort . 
'And now , he concluded , 'do you begin to understand ? My only friends were those who ruined me . 
Gretz has been my academy , my sanatorium , my heaven of innocent pleasures . 
But it is easy to convince a boy , whom you supply with all the facts for the discussion . 
And besides , there was one thing admirable in the philosophy , and that was the enthusiasm of the philosopher . 
What he could not achieve in his customary humour of a radiant admiration of himself and his circumstances , he sometimes effected in his fits of gloom . 
'Boy , he would say , 'avoid me to day . 
If I were superstitious , I should even beg for an interest in your prayers . 
'The vices of my nature are now uppermost innocent pleasures woo me in vain I long for Paris , for my wallowing in the mire . 
See , he would continue , producing a handful of silver , 'I denude myself , I am not to be trusted with the price of a fare . 
Take it , keep it for me , squander it on deleterious candy , throw it in the deepest of the river I will homologate your action . 
Save me from that part of myself which I disown . 
If you see me falter , do not hesitate if necessary , wreck the train ! I speak , of course , by a parable . 
Any extremity were better than for me to reach Paris alive . 
The Doctor made perhaps too little , the boy possibly too much , of the reality and gravity of these temptations . 
One day a great light shone for Jean Marie . 
'Could not riches be used well ? he asked . 
'In theory , yes , replied the Doctor . 
'But it is found in experience that no one does so . 
All the world imagine they will be exceptional when they grow wealthy but possession is debasing , new desires spring up and the silly taste for ostentation eats out the heart of pleasure . 
'Then you might be better if you had less , said the boy . 
'Certainly not , replied the Doctor but his voice quavered as he spoke . 
'Why ? demanded pitiless innocence . 
Doctor Desprez saw all the colours of the rainbow in a moment the stable universe appeared to be about capsizing with him . 
'Because , said he affecting deliberation after an obvious pause 'because I have formed my life for my present income . 
It is not good for men of my years to be violently dissevered from their habits . 
That was a sharp brush . 
The Doctor breathed hard , and fell into taciturnity for the afternoon . 
As for the boy , he was delighted with the resolution of his doubts even wondered that he had not foreseen the obvious and conclusive answer . 
His faith in the Doctor was a stout piece of goods . 
Desprez was inclined to be a sheet in the wind's eye after dinner , especially after Rhone wine , his favourite weakness . 
But the adopted stable boy would not permit himself to entertain a doubt that savoured of ingratitude . 
It is quite true that a man may be a second father to you , and yet take too much to drink but the best natures are ever slow to accept such truths . 
The Doctor thoroughly possessed his heart , but perhaps he exaggerated his influence over his mind . 
Certainly Jean Marie adopted some of his master's opinions , but I have yet to learn that he ever surrendered one of his own . 
Convictions existed in him by divine right they were virgin , unwrought , the brute metal of decision . 
Words were with him a mere accomplishment , like dancing . 
When he was by himself , his pleasures were almost vegetable . 
He would slip into the woods towards Acheres , and sit in the mouth of a cave among grey birches . 
He was pure unity , a spirit wholly abstracted . 
A single mood filled him , to which all the objects of sense contributed , as the colours of the spectrum merge and disappear in white light . 
So while the Doctor made himself drunk with words , the adopted stable boy bemused himself with silence . 
THE Doctor's carriage was a two wheeled gig with a hood a kind of vehicle in much favour among country doctors . 
The hood describes a considerable arc against the landscape , with a solemnly absurd effect on the contemplative pedestrian . 
To ride in such a carriage cannot be numbered among the things that appertain to glory but I have no doubt it may be useful in liver complaint . 
Thence , perhaps , its wide popularity among physicians . 
One morning early , Jean Marie led forth the Doctor's noddy , opened the gate , and mounted to the driving seat . 
They were bound for Franchard , to collect plants , with an eye to the 'Comparative Pharmacopoeia . 
There was a great , green , softly murmuring cloud of congregated foliage overhead . 
In the arcades of the forest the air retained the freshness of the night . 
Squirrels leaped in mid air . 
It was a proper spot for a devotee of the goddess Hygieia . 
'Have you been to Franchard , Jean Marie ? inquired the Doctor . 
'Never , replied the boy . 
'It is ruin in a gorge , continued Desprez , adopting his expository voice 'the ruin of a hermitage and chapel . 
History tells us much of Franchard how the recluse was often slain by robbers how he lived on a most insufficient diet how he was expected to pass his days in prayer . 
It is to this day my own system . 
You must often have remarked me leaving the Pharmacopoeia often even in the middle of a phrase to come forth into the sun and air . 
I admire the writer of that letter from my heart he was a man of thought on the most important subjects . 
I should have been an eremite myself if I had not been a professed buffoon , that is . 
These were the only philosophical lives yet open laughter or prayer sneers , we might say , and tears . 
Until the sun of the Positive arose , the wise man had to make his choice between these two . 
'I have been a buffoon , of course , observed Jean Marie . 
'I cannot imagine you to have excelled in your profession , said the Doctor , admiring the boy's gravity . 
'Do you ever laugh ? 'Oh , yes , replied the other . 
I am very fond of jokes . 
'Singular being ! said Desprez . 
Franchard was at length destroyed in the English wars , the same that levelled Gretz . 
had foreseen the danger and carefully concealed the sacrificial vessels . 
These vessels were of monstrous value , Jean Marie monstrous value priceless , we may say exquisitely worked , of exquisite material . 
And now , mark me , they have never been found . 
In the reign of Louis Quatorze some fellows were digging hard by the ruins . 
Suddenly tock ! the spade hit upon an obstacle . 
Imagine the men fooling one to another imagine how their hearts bounded , how their colour came and went . 
It was a coffer , and in Franchard the place of buried treasure ! They tore it open like famished beasts . 
Alas ! it was not the treasure only some priestly robes , which , at the touch of the eating air , fell upon themselves and instantly wasted into dust . 
The perspiration of these good fellows turned cold upon them , Jean Marie . 
I will pledge my reputation , if there was anything like a cutting wind , one or other had a pneumonia for his trouble . 
'I should like to have seen them turning into dust , said Jean Marie . 
'Otherwise , I should not have cared so greatly . 
'You have no imagination , cried the Doctor . 
'Picture to yourself the scene . 
The thought drives one frantic . 
'It is only money , replied Jean Marie . 
'O , come ! cried Desprez , 'that is philosophy it is all very fine , but not to the point just now . 
And besides , it is not only money , as you call it there are works of art in the question the vessels were carved . 
You speak like a child . 
You weary me exceedingly , quoting my words out of all logical connection , like a parroquet . 
'And at any rate , we have nothing to do with it , returned the boy submissively . 
They struck the Route Ronde at that moment and the sudden change to the rattling causeway combined , with the Doctor's irritation , to keep him silent . 
The noddy jigged along the trees went by , looking on silently , as if they had something on their minds . 
The Quadrilateral was passed then came Franchard . 
They put up the horse at the little solitary inn , and went forth strolling . 
The gorge was dyed deeply with heather the rocks and birches standing luminous in the sun . 
The boy's head had fallen a little forward , his eyes were closed , his fingers had fallen lax about his knees , when a sudden cry called him to his feet . 
It was a strange sound , thin and brief it fell dead , and silence returned as though it had never been interrupted . 
He had not recognised the Doctor's voice but , as there was no one else in all the valley , it was plainly the Doctor who had given utterance to the sound . 
He looked right and left , and there was Desprez , standing in a niche between two boulders , and looking round on his adopted son with a countenance as white as paper . 
'A viper ! cried Jean Marie , running towards him . 
'I have found it , he said , with a gasp . 
'A plant ? asked Jean Marie . 
Desprez had a fit of unnatural gaiety , which the rocks took up and mimicked . 
'A plant ! he repeated scornfully . 
And here , he added suddenly , showing his right hand , which he had hitherto concealed behind his back 'here is one of the bulbs . 
Jean Marie saw a dirty platter , coated with earth . 
'It is a plate ! 'It is a coach and horses , cried the Doctor . 
'I have just discovered America , he added . 
'But what is it ? asked the boy . 
Then he flung himself down among the heather and once more laughed until the valley rang . 
But the boy had now an interest of his own , a boy's interest . 
A casket came last , tightly shut and very heavy . 
'O what fun ! he cried . 
But when he looked back at the Doctor , who had followed close behind and was silently observing , the words died from his lips . 
Desprez was once more the colour of ashes his lip worked and trembled a sort of bestial greed possessed him . 
'This is childish , he said . 
Back to the inn , harness the trap , and bring it to yon bank . 
Run for your life , and remember not one whisper . 
I stay here to watch . 
Jean Marie did as he was bid , though not without surprise . 
The noddy was brought round to the spot indicated and the two gradually transported the treasure from its place of concealment to the boot below the driving seat . 
Once it was all stored the Doctor recovered his gaiety . 
'I pay my grateful duties to the genius of this dell , he said . 
'O , for a live coal , a heifer , and a jar of country wine ! I am in the vein for sacrifice , for a superb libation . 
Well , and why not ? We are at Franchard . 
English pale ale is to be had not classical , indeed , but excellent . 
Boy , we shall drink ale . 
'But I thought it was so unwholesome , said Jean Marie , 'and very dear besides . 
'Fiddle de dee ! exclaimed the Doctor gaily . 
'To the inn ! And he stepped into the noddy , tossing his head , with an elastic , youthful air . 
The horse was turned , and in a few seconds they drew up beside the palings of the inn garden . 
'Here , said Desprez 'here , near the table , so that we may keep an eye upon things . 
They tied the horse , and entered the garden , the Doctor singing , now in fantastic high notes , now producing deep reverberations from his chest . 
'Drink , he said 'drink deep . 
'I would rather not , faltered the boy , true to his training . 
You can have some wine and cakes . 
Is the bottle empty ? Well , we will not be proud we will have pity on your glass . 
The beer being done , the Doctor chafed bitterly while Jean Marie finished his cakes . 
'I burn to be gone , he said , looking at his watch . 
'To Fontainebleau ? repeated Jean Marie . 
'My words are always measured , said the Doctor . 
'I shall telegraph for Casimir , he said . 
He is the very fellow to help us to dispose of our trinkets , find us a suitable house in Paris , and manage the details of our installation . 
Thy name is graven in my heart . 
Under the influence of prosperity I become dithyrambic , Jean Marie . 
Such is the impulse of the natural soul such was the constitution of primaeval man . 
Fresh opulence and a new sphere of duties find me unabated in ardour and only more mature by knowledge . 
For this prospective change , Jean Marie it may probably have shocked you . 
Tell me now , did it not strike you as an inconsistency ? Confess it is useless to dissemble it pained you ? 'Yes , said the boy . 
A hint till we have leisure must suffice . 
Now that I am once more in possession of a modest competence now that I have so long prepared myself in silent meditation , it becomes my superior duty to proceed to Paris . 
My scientific training , my undoubted command of language , mark me out for the service of my country . 
Modesty in such a case would be a snare . 
If sin were a philosophical expression , I should call it sinful . 
A man must not deny his manifest abilities , for that is to evade his obligations . 
I must be up and doing I must be no skulker in life's battle . 
So he rattled on , copiously greasing the joint of his inconsistency with words while the boy listened silently , his eyes fixed on the horse , his mind seething . 
It was all lost eloquence no array of words could unsettle a belief of Jean Marie's and he drove into Fontainebleau filled with pity , horror , indignation , and despair . 
The Doctor sang , the Doctor whistled , the Doctor talked . 
He spoke of the woods , and the wars , and the deposition of dew he brightened and babbled of Paris he soared into cloudy bombast on the glories of the political arena . 
All was to be changed as the day departed , it took with it the vestiges of an outworn existence , and to morrow's sun was to inaugurate the new . 
was to be no longer buried she should now shine before society . 
Jean Marie would find the world at his feet the roads open to success , wealth , honour , and post humous renown . 
No word must get abroad none but the good Casimir is to be trusted we shall probably dispose of the vessels in England . 
'But are they not even ours ? the boy said , almost with a sob it was the only time he had spoken . 
'Ours in this sense , that they are nobody else's , replied the Doctor . 
'But the State would have some claim . 
If they were stolen , for instance , we should be unable to demand their restitution we should have no title we should be unable even to communicate with the police . 
Such is the monstrous condition of the law . 
It is a mere instance of what remains to be done , of the injustices that may yet be righted by an ardent , active , and philosophical deputy . 
Surely , as soon as they arrived , madame would assert her character , and bring this waking nightmare to an end . 
Their entrance into Gretz was heralded and accompanied by a most furious barking all the dogs in the village seemed to smell the treasure in the noddy . 
But there was no one in the street , save three lounging landscape painters at Tentaillon's door . 
'Close the gates , Jean Marie ! cried the Doctor , somewhat unsteadily alighting . 
'Anastasie , where is Aline ? 'She has gone to Montereau to see her parents , said madame . 
'All is for the best ! exclaimed the Doctor fervently . 
'Here , quick , come near to me I do not wish to speak too loud , he continued . 
'Darling , we are wealthy ! 'Wealthy ! repeated the wife . 
'I have found the treasure of Franchard , replied her husband . 
To morrow Casimir will come in a week we may be in Paris happy at last ! You shall have diamonds . 
Jean Marie , take it out of the boot , with religious care , and bring it piece by piece into the dining room . 
We shall have plate at table ! Darling , hasten and prepare this turtle it will be a whet it will be an addition to our meagre ordinary . 
I myself will proceed to the cellar . 
We shall have a bottle of that little Beaujolais you like , and finish with the Hermitage there are still three bottles left . 
Worthy wine for a worthy occasion . 
'But , my husband you put me in a whirl , she cried . 
'The turtle , my adored , the turtle ! cried the doctor and he pushed her towards the kitchen , lantern and all . 
He had pictured to himself a different scene a more immediate protest , and his hope began to dwindle on the spot . 
All through the meal , she and the Doctor made and unmade fairy plans . 
They bobbed and bowed and pledged each other . 
Their faces ran over with smiles their eyes scattered sparkles , as they projected the Doctor's political honours and the lady's drawing room ovations . 
'But you will not be a Red ! cried Anastasie . 
'I am Left Centre to the core , replied the Doctor . 
'Madame Gastein will present us we shall find ourselves forgotten , said the lady . 
'Never , protested the Doctor . 
'Beauty and talent leave a mark . 
'I have positively forgotten how to dress , she sighed . 
'Darling , you make me blush , cried he . 
'I swear it by my political honour , cried he . 
'I spoil you , she said , and gave him her hand . 
He covered it with kisses . 
Jean Marie escaped into the night . 
The moon swung high over Gretz . 
He went down to the garden end and sat on the jetty . 
The river ran by with eddies of oily silver , and a low , monotonous song . 
Faint veils of mist moved among the poplars on the farther side . 
The reeds were quietly nodding . 
A hundred times already had the boy sat , on such a night , and watched the streaming river with untroubled fancy . 
And this perhaps was to be the last . 
He knew his own defects he knew he must sink into less and less consideration in the turmoil of a city life , sink more and more from the child into the servant . 
And he began dimly to believe the Doctor's prophecies of evil . 
He could see a change in both . 
His generous incredulity failed him for this once a child must have perceived that the Hermitage had completed what the absinthe had begun . 
If this were the first day , what would be the last ? 'If necessary , wreck the train , thought he , remembering the Doctor's parable . 
He looked round on the delightful scene he drank deep of the charmed night air , laden with the scent of hay . 
'If necessary , wreck the train , he repeated . 
And he rose and returned to the house . 
A CRIMINAL INVESTIGATION , IN TWO PARTS . 
THE next morning there was a most unusual outcry , in the Doctor's house . 
'Gone ! he said 'the things are gone , the fortune gone ! We are paupers once more . 
Boy ! what do you know of this ? Speak up , sir , speak up . 
The Doctor , with a revulsion from his own violence , set him down again . 
He observed Anastasie in tears . 
'Anastasie , he said , in quite an altered voice , 'compose yourself , command your feelings . 
I would not have you give way to passion like the vulgar . 
This this trifling accident must be lived down . 
Jean Marie , bring me my smaller medicine chest . 
A gentle laxative is indicated . 
And he dosed the family all round , leading the way himself with a double quantity . 
As for Jean Marie , he took his portion down with stoicism . 
'I have given him a less amount , observed the Doctor , 'his youth protecting him against emotion . 
And now that we have thus parried any morbid consequences , let us reason . 
'I am so cold , wailed Anastasie . 
'Cold ! cried the Doctor . 
'I give thanks to God that I am made of fierier material . 
Why , madam , a blow like this would set a frog into a transpiration . 
If you are cold , you can retire and , by the way , you might throw me down my trousers . 
It is chilly for the legs . 
'Oh , no ! protested Anastasie 'I will stay with you . 
'Nay , madam , you shall not suffer for your devotion , said the Doctor . 
'I will myself fetch you a shawl . 
And he went upstairs and returned more fully clad and with an armful of wraps for the shivering Anastasie . 
'And now , he resumed , 'to investigate this crime . 
Let us proceed by induction . 
Anastasie , do you know anything that can help us ? Anastasie knew nothing . 
'Or you , Jean Marie ? 'Not I , replied the boy steadily . 
'Good , returned the Doctor . 
'We shall now turn our attention to the material evidences . 
First , violence has been employed . 
The door was broken open and it may be observed , in passing , that the lock was dear indeed at what I paid for it a crow to pluck with Master Goguelat . 
Thirdly , I observe that nothing has been removed except the Franchard dishes and the casket our own silver has been minutely respected . 
This is wily it shows intelligence , a knowledge of the code , a desire to avoid legal consequences . 
I argue from this fact that the gang numbers persons of respectability outward , of course , and merely outward , as the robbery proves . 
No ordinary man , no occasional criminal , would have shown himself capable of this combination . 
We have in our neighbourhood , it is far from improbable , a retired bandit of the highest order of intelligence . 
'Good heaven ! cried the horrified Anastasie . 
'Henri , how can you ? 'My cherished one , this is a process of induction , said the Doctor . 
'If any of my steps are unsound , correct me . 
You are silent ? Then do not , I beseech you , be so vulgarly illogical as to revolt from my conclusion . 
Come with me to the door . 
No steps on the court it is unfortunate our court should be paved . 
'An escalade , as you can now see for yourselves , has taken place . 
Sure enough , the green paint was in several places scratched and broken and one of the panels preserved the print of a nailed shoe . 
The foot had slipped , however , and it was difficult to estimate the size of the shoe , and impossible to distinguish the pattern of the nails . 
'The whole robbery , concluded the Doctor , 'step by step , has been reconstituted . 
Inductive science can no further go . 
'It is wonderful , said his wife . 
'You should indeed have been a detective , Henri . 
I had no idea of your talents . 
I reach the further stage in this way . 
The three requisites all centre in Tentaillon's boarders . 
They are painters , therefore they are continually lounging in the forest . 
They are painters , therefore they are not unlikely to have some smattering of education . 
Lastly , because they are painters , they are probably immoral . 
And this I prove in two ways . 
First , painting is an art which merely addresses the eye it does not in any particular exercise the moral sense . 
And second , painting , in common with all the other arts , implies the dangerous quality of imagination . 
'My dear , they displayed imagination , and of a very fantastic order , too , returned the Doctor , 'when they embraced their beggarly profession . 
Besides and this is an argument exactly suited to your intellectual level many of them are English and American . 
Where else should we expect to find a thief ? And now you had better get your coffee . 
Because we have lost a treasure , there is no reason for starving . 
For my part , I shall break my fast with white wine . 
I feel unaccountably heated and thirsty to day . 
I can only attribute it to the shock of the discovery . 
And yet , you will bear me out , I supported the emotion nobly . 
He was much the man of business , decisively spoken , given to frowning in an intellectual manner . 
Anastasie's born brother , he did not waste much sentiment on the lady , gave her an English family kiss , and demanded a meal without delay . 
'You can tell me your story while we eat , he observed . 
'Anything good to day , Stasie ? He was promised something good . 
The trio sat down to table in the arbour , Jean Marie waiting as well as eating , and the Doctor recounted what had happened in his richest narrative manner . 
Casimir heard it with explosions of laughter . 
'What a streak of luck for you , my good brother , he observed , when the tale was over . 
'If you had gone to Paris , you would have played dick duck drake with the whole consignment in three months . 
Your own would have followed and you would have come to me in a procession like the last time . 
But I give you warning Stasie may weep and Henri ratiocinate it will not serve you twice . 
Your next collapse will be fatal . 
I thought I had told you so , Stasie ? Hey ? No sense ? The Doctor winced and looked furtively at Jean Marie but the boy seemed apathetic . 
'Pardon me , said the Doctor . 
'You have your usual flow of spirits , I perceive , but even less than your usual deliberation . 
I am not entirely ignorant of these matters . 
'Not entirely ignorant of anything ever I heard of , interrupted Casimir , bowing , and raising his glass with a sort of pert politeness . 
'At least , resumed the Doctor , 'I gave my mind to the subject that you may be willing to believe and I estimated that our capital would be doubled . 
And he described the nature of the find . 
'My word of honour ! said Casimir , 'I half believe you ! But much would depend on the quality of the gold . 
'The quality , my dear Casimir , was And the Doctor , in default of language , kissed his finger tips . 
'I would not take your word for it , my good friend , retorted the man of business . 
'You are a man of very rosy views . 
But this robbery , he continued 'this robbery is an odd thing . 
Of course I pass over your nonsense about gangs and landscape painters . 
For me , that is a dream . 
Who was in the house last night ? 'None but ourselves , replied the Doctor . 
'And this young gentleman ? asked Casimir , jerking a nod in the direction of Jean Marie . 
'He too' the Doctor bowed . 
'Well and if it is a fair question , who is he ? pursued the brother in law . 
'Jean Marie , answered the Doctor , 'combines the functions of a son and stable boy . 
He began as the latter , but he rose rapidly to the more honourable rank in our affections . 
He is , I may say , the greatest comfort in our lives . 
'And previous to becoming one of you ? 'Jean Marie has lived a remarkable existence his experience his been eminently formative , replied Desprez . 
'If I had had to choose an education for my son , I should have chosen such another . 
Beginning life with mountebanks and thieves , passing onward to the society and friendship of philosophers , he may be said to have skimmed the volume of human life . 
'Thieves ? repeated the brother in law , with a meditative air . 
The Doctor could have bitten his tongue out . 
He foresaw what was coming , and prepared his mind for a vigorous defence . 
'Did you ever steal yourself ? asked Casimir , turning suddenly on Jean Marie , and for the first time employing a single eyeglass which hung round his neck . 
'Yes , sir , replied the boy , with a deep blush . 
Casimir turned to the others with pursed lips , and nodded to them meaningly . 
'Hey ? said he 'how is that ? 'Jean Marie is a teller of the truth , returned the Doctor , throwing out his bust . 
'He has never told a lie , added madame . 
'He is the best of boys . 
'Never told a lie , has he not ? reflected Casimir . 
Give me your attention , my young friend , he continued . 
'You knew about this treasure ? 'He helped to bring it home , interposed the Doctor . 
'Desprez , I ask you nothing but to hold your tongue , returned Casimir . 
'I mean to question this stable boy of yours and if you are so certain of his innocence , you can afford to let him answer for himself . 
Now , sir , he resumed , pointing his eyeglass straight at Jean Marie . 
He sat there changing colour like a revolving pharos , twisting his fingers hysterically , swallowing air , the picture of guilt . 
'You knew where it was put ? resumed the inquisitor . 
'Yes , from Jean Marie . 
'You say you have been a thief before , continued Casimir . 
'Now how am I to know that you are not one still ? I suppose you could climb the green gate ? 'Yes , still lower , from the culprit . 
'Well , then , it was you who stole these things . 
You know it , and you dare not deny it . 
You telegraph me to leave my business and come down here on yours . 
'Well , returned the Doctor , 'I grant that I will even thank you for your mistaken zeal . 
But your hypothesis was so extravagantly monstrous 'Look here , interrupted Casimir 'was it you or Stasie ? 'Certainly not , answered the Doctor . 
'Very well then it was the boy . 
Say no more about it , said the brother in law , and he produced his cigar case . 
'Well , well , said Casimir , indulgently . 
'Have you a light ? I must be going . 
And by the way , I wish you would let me sell your Turks for you . 
I always told you , it meant smash . 
I tell you so again . 
Indeed , it was partly that that brought me down . 
You never acknowledge my letters a most unpardonable habit . 
'My good brother , replied the Doctor blandly , 'I have never denied your ability in business but I can perceive your limitations . 
'Egad , my friend , I can return the compliment , observed the man of business . 
'Your limitation is to be downright irrational . 
'Observe the relative position , returned the Doctor with a smile . 
'It is your attitude to believe through thick and thin in one man's judgment your own . 
I follow the same opinion , but critically and with open eyes . 
Which is the more irrational ? I leave it to yourself . 
But don't ratiocinate with me I cannot bear it . 
And so , ta ta . 
I might as well have stayed away for any good I've done . 
Say good bye from me to Stasie , and to the sullen hang dog of a stable boy , if you insist on it I'm off . 
The Doctor , that night , dissected his character before Anastasie . 
'One thing , my beautiful , he said , 'he has learned one thing from his lifelong acquaintance with your husband the word RATIOCINATE . 
It shines in his vocabulary , like a jewel in a muck heap . 
And , even so , he continually misapplies it . 
As for his cruelty to Jean Marie , it must be forgiven him it is not his nature , it is the nature of his life . 
A man who deals with money , my dear , is a man lost . 
With Jean Marie the process of reconciliation had been somewhat slow . 
'At first , my husband , he would hear of nothing , she said . 
On that agreement only , the poor , cruel boy will consent to remain among his friends . 
'But this inhibition , said the Doctor , 'this embargo it cannot possibly apply to me ? 'To all of us , Anastasie assured him . 
'My cherished one , Desprez protested , 'you must have misunderstood . 
It cannot apply to me . 
He would naturally come to me . 
'Henri , she said , 'it does I swear to you it does . 
'This is a painful , a very painful circumstance , the Doctor said , looking a little black . 
'I cannot affect , Anastasie , to be anything but justly wounded . 
I feel this , I feel it , my wife , acutely . 
'I knew you would , she said . 
'But if you had seen his distress ! We must make allowances , we must sacrifice our feelings . 
'I trust , my dear , you have never found me averse to sacrifices , returned the Doctor very stiffly . 
'And you will let me go and tell him that you have agreed ? It will be like your noble nature , she cried . 
So it would , he perceived it would be like his noble nature ! Up jumped his spirits , triumphant at the thought . 
'Go , darling , he said nobly , 'reassure him . 
The subject is buried more I make an effort , I have accustomed my will to these exertions and it is forgotten . 
A little after , but still with swollen eyes and looking mortally sheepish , Jean Marie reappeared and went ostentatiously about his business . 
He was the only unhappy member of the party that sat down that night to supper . 
As for the Doctor , he was radiant . 
He thus sang the requiem of the treasure 'This has been , on the whole , a most amusing episode , he said . 
'We are not a penny the worse nay , we are immensely gainers . 
Besides , we had a glass of Hermitage last night the glow still suffuses my memory . 
I was growing positively niggardly with that Hermitage , positively niggardly . 
Let me take the hint we had one bottle to celebrate the appearance of our visionary fortune let us have a second to console us for its occultation . 
The third I hereby dedicate to Jean Marie's wedding breakfast . 
THE FALL OF THE HOUSE OF DESPREZ . 
It was roomy , draughty , and inconvenient . 
In poor or idle management it would soon have hurried into the blackguard stages of decay . 
As for any alarm about its security , the idea had never presented itself . 
What had stood four centuries might well endure a little longer . 
Jean Marie was plainly not himself . 
He had fits of hectic activity , when he made unusual exertions to please , spoke more and faster , and redoubled in attention to his lessons . 
But these were interrupted by spells of melancholia and brooding silence , when the boy was little better than unbearable . 
'Silence , the Doctor moralised 'you see , Anastasie , what comes of silence . 
Had the boy properly unbosomed himself , the little disappointment about the treasure , the little annoyance about Casimir's incivility , would long ago have been forgotten . 
As it is , they prey upon him like a disease . 
He loses flesh , his appetite is variable and , on the whole , impaired . 
I keep him on the strictest regimen , I exhibit the most powerful tonics both in vain . 
'Don't you think you drug him too much ? asked madame , with an irrepressible shudder . 
'Drug ? cried the Doctor 'I drug ? Anastasie , you are mad ! Time went on , and the boy's health still slowly declined . 
The Doctor blamed the weather , which was cold and boisterous . 
He called in his CONFRERE from Bourron , took a fancy for him , magnified his capacity , and was pretty soon under treatment himself it scarcely appeared for what complaint . 
He and Jean Marie had each medicine to take at different periods of the day . 
The Doctor used to lie in wait for the exact moment , watch in hand . 
Gunpowder Day , the boy was particularly low . 
It was scowling , squally weather . 
Huge broken companies of cloud sailed swiftly overhead raking gleams of sunlight swept the village , and were followed by intervals of darkness and white , flying rain . 
At times the wind lifted up its voice and bellowed . 
The trees were all scourging themselves along the meadows , the last leaves flying like dust . 
The Doctor , between the boy and the weather , was in his element he had a theory to prove . 
He sat with his watch out and a barometer in front of him , waiting for the squalls and noting their effect upon the human pulse . 
'For the true philosopher , he remarked delightedly , 'every fact in nature is a toy . 
At nightfall the wind rose into a tempest . 
It besieged the hamlet , apparently from every side , as if with batteries of cannon the houses shook and groaned live coals were blown upon the floor . 
The uproar and terror of the night kept people long awake , sitting with pallid faces giving ear . 
It was twelve before the Desprez family retired . 
By half past one , when the storm was already somewhat past its height , the Doctor was awakened from a troubled slumber , and sat up . 
A noise still rang in his ears , but whether of this world or the world of dreams he was not certain . 
Another clap of wind followed . 
It was accompanied by a sickening movement of the whole house , and in the subsequent lull Desprez could hear the tiles pouring like a cataract into the loft above his head . 
He plucked Anastasie bodily out of bed . 
She had never before suspected herself of such activity . 
The fugitives rendezvous'd in the arbour by some common instinct . 
At the humiliating spectacle Anastasie clutched her nightdress desperately about her and burst loudly into tears . 
The Doctor flew to console her but she elbowed him away . 
She suspected everybody of being the general public , and thought the darkness was alive with eyes . 
One such missile grazed the Doctor's ear another descended on the bare foot of Aline , who instantly made night hideous with her shrieks . 
By this time the hamlet was alarmed , lights flashed from the windows , hails reached the party , and the Doctor answered , nobly contending against Aline and the tempest . 
But this prospect of help only awakened Anastasie to a more active stage of terror . 
'Henri , people will be coming , she screamed in her husband's ear . 
'I trust so , he replied . 
I would rather die , she wailed . 
'My dear , said the Doctor reprovingly , 'you are excited . 
I gave you some clothes . 
What have you done with them ? 'Oh , I don't know I must have thrown them away ! Where are they ? she sobbed . 
Desprez groped about in the darkness . 
'Admirable ! he remarked 'my grey velveteen trousers ! This will exactly meet your necessities . 
'Give it to Aline , she said 'poor girl . 
'Nonsense ! said the Doctor . 
'Aline does not know what she is about . 
Aline is beside herself with terror and at any rate , she is a peasant . 
Now I am really concerned at this exposure for a person of your housekeeping habits my solicitude and your fantastic modesty both point to the same remedy the pantaloons . 
You do not understand , she said with dignity . 
By this time rescue was at hand . 
It had been found impracticable to enter by the street , for the gate was blocked with masonry , and the nodding ruin still threatened further avalanches . 
The light struck here and there among the tossing apple boughs , it glinted on the grass but the lantern and the glowing face became the centre of the world . 
Anastasie crouched back from the intrusion . 
'This way ! shouted the man . 
'Are you all safe ? Aline , still screaming , ran to the new comer , and was presently hauled head foremost through the wall . 
'Now , Anastasie , come on it is your turn , said the husband . 
'I cannot , she replied . 
'Are we all to die of exposure , madame ? thundered Doctor Desprez . 
'You can go ! she cried . 
'Oh , go , go away ! I can stay here I am quite warm . 
The Doctor took her by the shoulders with an oath . 
'I will put them on . 
She took the detested lendings in her hand once more but her repulsion was stronger than shame . 
'Never ! she cried , shuddering , and flung them far away into the night . 
Next moment the Doctor had whirled her to the well . 
The man was there and the lantern Anastasie closed her eyes and appeared to herself to be about to die . 
How she was transported through the arch she knew not but once on the other side she was received by the neighbour's wife , and enveloped in a friendly blanket . 
'The cellar ! he said , gravely shaking his head over a glass of mulled wine . 
'That reminds me of my poor vintages . 
By a manifest providence the Hermitage was nearly at an end . 
One bottle I lose but one bottle of that incomparable wine . 
It had been set apart against Jean Marie's wedding . 
Well , I must lay down some more it will be an interest in life . 
I am , however , a man somewhat advanced in years . 
My great work is now buried in the fall of my humble roof it will never be completed my name will have been writ in water . 
And yet you find me calm I would say cheerful . 
Can your priest do more ? By the first glimpse of day the party sallied forth from the fireside into the street . 
The house had entirely fallen , the walls outward , the roof in it was a mere heap of rubbish , with here and there a forlorn spear of broken rafter . 
A sentinel was placed over the ruins to protect the property , and the party adjourned to Tentaillon's to break their fast at the Doctor's expense . 
The bottle circulated somewhat freely and before they left the table it had begun to snow . 
For three days the snow continued to fall , and the ruins , covered with tarpaulin and watched by sentries , were left undisturbed . 
The Desprez' meanwhile had taken up their abode at Tentaillon's . 
Madame spent her time in the kitchen , concocting little delicacies , with the admiring aid of Madame Tentaillon , or sitting by the fire in thoughtful abstraction . 
The fall of the house affected her wonderfully little that blow had been parried by another and in her mind she was continually fighting over again the battle of the trousers . 
Had she done right ? Had she done wrong ? And now she would applaud her determination and anon , with a horrid flush of unavailing penitence , she would regret the trousers . 
No juncture in her life had so much exercised her judgment . 
In the meantime the Doctor had become vastly pleased with his situation . 
Many were the glasses they emptied , many the topics they discussed . 
As for me , you behold me . 
I have made friends with the Egyptians and my Pharaoh is , I swear it , a most agreeable companion . 
Our income will be impaired , I grant it , since we must rebuild but moderation , patience , and philosophy will gather about the hearth . 
In the meanwhile , the Tentaillons are obliging the table , with your additions , will pass only the wine is execrable well , I shall send for some to day . 
My Pharaoh will be gratified to drink a decent glass aha ! and I shall see if he possesses that acme of organisation a palate . 
If he has a palate , he is perfect . 
'Henri , she said , shaking her head , 'you are a man you cannot understand my feelings no woman could shake off the memory of so public a humiliation . 
The Doctor could not restrain a titter . 
'Pardon me , darling , he said 'but really , to the philosophical intelligence , the incident appears so small a trifle . 
You looked extremely well 'Henri ! she cried . 
'Well , well , I will say no more , he replied . 
Two hours afterwards the boy returned to the inn with a spade under one arm and a curious sop of clothing under the other . 
The Doctor ruefully took it in his hands . 
'They have been ! he said . 
Excellent pantaloons , you are no more ! Stay , something in the pocket , and he produced a piece of paper . 
'A letter ! ay , now I mind me it was received on the morning of the gale , when I was absorbed in delicate investigations . 
From poor , dear Casimir ! It is as well , he chuckled , 'that I have educated him to patience . 
'BIGRE ! he cried , with a galvanic start . 
And then the letter was whipped into the fire , and the Doctor's cap was on his head in the turn of a hand . 
'Ten minutes ! I can catch it , if I run , he cried . 
'Henri ! what is wrong ? cried his wife . 
'Ottoman Bonds ! came from the disappearing Doctor and Anastasie and Jean Marie were left face to face with the wet trousers . 
The fall of the house was but a secondary marvel the whole world might have fallen and scarce left his family more petrified . 
ON the morning of the next day , the Doctor , a mere spectre of himself , was brought back in the custody of Casimir . 
Madame turned direct to Casimir . 
'What is wrong ? she cried . 
'Well , replied Casimir , 'what have I told you all along ? It has come . 
It is a clean shave , this time so you may as well bear up and make the best of it . 
House down , too , eh ? Bad luck , upon my soul . 
'Are we are we ruined ? she gasped . 
The Doctor stretched out his arms to her . 
'Ruined , he replied , 'you are ruined by your sinister husband . 
Casimir observed the consequent embrace through his eyeglass then he turned to Jean Marie . 
'You hear ? he said . 
'They are ruined no more pickings , no more house , no more fat cutlets . 
It strikes me , my friend , that you had best be packing the present speculation is about worked out . 
And he nodded to him meaningly . 
'Never ! cried Desprez , springing up . 
'Jean Marie , if you prefer to leave me , now that I am poor , you can go you shall receive your hundred francs , if so much remains to me . 
But if you will consent to stay the Doctor wept a little 'Casimir offers me a place as clerk , he resumed . 
'The emoluments are slender , but they will be enough for three . 
It is too much already to have lost my fortune must I lose my son ? Jean Marie sobbed bitterly , but without a word . 
'I don't like boys who cry , observed Casimir . 
'This one is always crying . 
Here ! you clear out of this for a little I have business with your master and mistress , and these domestic feelings may be settled after I am gone . 
March ! and he held the door open . 
Jean Marie slunk out , like a detected thief . 
By twelve they were all at table but Jean Marie . 
Took the hint at once . 
'I do not , I confess , said Desprez , 'I do not seek to excuse his absence . 
It speaks a want of heart that disappoints me sorely . 
'Want of manners , corrected Casimir . 
'Heart , he never had . 
Why , Desprez , for a clever fellow , you are the most gullible mortal in creation . 
Your ignorance of human nature and human business is beyond belief . 
You are swindled by heathen Turks , swindled by vagabond children , swindled right and left , upstairs and downstairs . 
I think it must be your imagination . 
I thank my stars I have none . 
'Pardon me , replied Desprez , still humbly , but with a return of spirit at sight of a distinction to be drawn 'pardon me , Casimir . 
You possess , even to an eminent degree , the commercial imagination . 
It was the lack of that in me it appears it is my weak point that has led to these repeated shocks . 
By the commercial imagination the financier forecasts the destiny of his investments , marks the falling house 'Egad , interrupted Casimir 'our friend the stable boy appears to have his share of it . 
The Doctor was silenced and the meal was continued and finished principally to the tune of the brother in law's not very consolatory conversation . 
By the time coffee was over the poor Doctor was as limp as a napkin . 
'Let us go and see the ruins , said Casimir . 
They strolled forth into the street . 
The fall of the house , like the loss of a front tooth , had quite transformed the village . 
Through the gap the eye commanded a great stretch of open snowy country , and the place shrank in comparison . 
It was like a room with an open door . 
The sentinel stood by the green gate , looking very red and cold , but he had a pleasant word for the Doctor and his wealthy kinsman . 
Casimir looked at the mound of ruins , he tried the quality of the tarpaulin . 
'H'm , he said , 'I hope the cellar arch has stood . 
If it has , my good brother , I will give you a good price for the wines . 
'We shall start digging to morrow , said the sentry . 
'There is no more fear of snow . 
'My friend , returned Casimir sententiously , 'you had better wait till you get paid . 
The Doctor winced , and began dragging his offensive brother in law towards Tentaillon's . 
In the house there would be fewer auditors , and these already in the secret of his fall . 
'Hullo ! cried Casimir , 'there goes the stable boy with his luggage no , egad , he is taking it into the inn . 
And sure enough , Jean Marie was seen to cross the snowy street and enter Tentaillon's , staggering under a large hamper . 
The Doctor stopped with a sudden , wild hope . 
'What can he have ? he said . 
'Let us go and see . 
'His luggage , to be sure , answered Casimir . 
'He is on the move thanks to the commercial imagination . 
'I have not seen that hamper for for ever so long , remarked the Doctor . 
'Nor will you see it much longer , chuckled Casimir 'unless , indeed , we interfere . 
And by the way , I insist on an examination . 
'You will not require , said Desprez , positively with a sob and , casting a moist , triumphant glance at Casimir , he began to run . 
'What the devil is up with him , I wonder ? Casimir reflected and then , curiosity taking the upper hand , he followed the Doctor's example and took to his heels . 
'Jean Marie , cried the Doctor , in a voice that was only too seraphic to be called hysterical , 'is it ? It is ! he cried . 
'O , my son , my son ! And he sat down upon the hamper and sobbed like a little child . 
'You will not go to Paris now , said Jean Marie sheepishly . 
These , Casimir , are the Fruits of my Teaching , and this moment is the Reward of my Life . 
To come forrit to offer oneself as a communicant . 
It was a common belief in Scotland that the devil appeared as a black man . 
This appears in several witch trials and I think in Law's MEMORIALS , that delightful store house of the quaint and grisly . 
