Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com MISS BILLY'S DECISION BY ELEANOR H. PORTER Author of Miss Billy , '' etc . 
TO My Cousin Helen CONTENTS CHAPTER I. CALDERWELL DOES SOME TALKING II . 
AUNT HANNAH GETS A LETTER III . 
FOR MARY JANE V. MARIE SPEAKS HER MIND VI . 
AT THE SIGN OF THE PINK VII . 
OLD FRIENDS AND NEW VIII . 
M. J. OPENS THE GAME IX . 
A RUG , A PICTURE , AND A GIRL AFRAID X. A JOB FOR PETE AND FOR BERTRAM XI . 
A CLOCK AND AUNT HANNAH XII . 
CYRIL AND A WEDDING XIV . 
M. J. MAKES ANOTHER MOVE XV . 
BILLY'' AND MISS MARY JANE'' XVI . 
A GIRL AND A BIT OF LOWESTOFT XVII . 
ONLY A LOVE SONG , BUT XVIII . 
ARKWRIGHT TELLS A STORY XXI . 
A MATTER OF STRAIGHT BUSINESS XXII . 
THE CAUSE AND BERTRAM XXIV . 
THE ARTIST AND HIS ART XXV . 
ARKWRIGHT TELLS ANOTHER STORY XXVII . 
THE THING THAT WAS THE TRUTH XXVIII . 
BILLY TAKES HER TURN XXIX . 
KATE WRITES A LETTER XXX . 
PETE TO THE RESCUE XXXIII . 
'' Farther along in this same letter Calderwell touched upon his new friend again . 
I admit , however , I would like to know his name . 
To find out what that mysterious M. J. stands for has got to be pretty nearly an obsession with me . 
I am about ready to pick his pocket or rifle his trunk in search of some lurking Martin' or John' that will set me at peace . 
Opposite him was the six feet of muscular manhood , broad shoulders , pointed brown beard , and all and he had just addressed it , inadvertently , as Mary Jane . 
Well , I chose as safe a place as I could ! '' he was thinking . 
How long since you've been in correspondence with members of my family ? '' Eh ? '' Arkwright laughed grimly . 
Perhaps you thought of it yourself , then I'll admit you're capable of it , '' he nodded , reaching for a cigar . 
But it so happens you hit upon my family's favorite name for me . 
'' Mary Jane ! You mean they actually call you that ? '' Yes , '' bowed the big fellow , calmly , as he struck a light . 
Appropriate ! don't you think ? '' Calderwell did not answer . 
He thought he could not . 
Well , silence gives consent , they say , '' laughed the other . 
Anyhow , you must have had some reason for calling me that . 
'' Arkwright , what does M. J. stand for ? '' demanded Calderwell . 
Oh , is that it ? '' smiled the man opposite . 
Well , I'll own those initials have been something of a puzzle to people . 
One man declares they're Merely Jokes' but another , not so friendly , says they stand for Mostly Jealousy' of more fortunate chaps who have real names for a handle . 
And there you have it . 
'' Mary Jane ! You ! '' Arkwright smiled oddly . 
A rose by any other name you've heard that , probably . 
Names don't always signify , my dear fellow . 
For instance , I know a Billy' but he's a girl . 
'' Calderwell gave a sudden start . 
You don't mean Billy Neilson ? '' The other turned sharply . 
Do you know Billy Neilson ? '' Calderwell gave his friend a glance from scornful eyes . 
Do I know Billy Neilson ? '' he cried . 
But what's the use ? Everybody knows it that knows us . 
'' Apple pie ! '' scouted Arkwright . 
My dear fellow , you don't seem to realize it , but for the last six months you have been assisting at the obsequies of a dead romance . 
'' Indeed ! And is it buried , yet ? '' Oh , no , '' sighed Calderwell , cheerfully . 
For a moment there was silence , then Calderwell spoke again . 
Where did you know Miss Billy ? '' Oh , I don't know her at all . 
I know of her through Aunt Hannah . 
'' Calderwell sat suddenly erect . 
Aunt Hannah ! Is she your aunt , too ? Jove ! This is a little old world , after all isn't it ? '' She isn't my aunt . 
She's my mother's third cousin . 
She lives with her , I believe doesn't she ? '' She does , '' rejoined Calderwell , with an unexpected chuckle . 
I wonder if you know how she happened to live with her , at first . 
'' Why , no , I reckon not . 
What do you mean ? '' Calderwell chuckled again . 
Well , I'll tell you . 
You , being a Mary Jane , ought to appreciate it . 
You see , Billy was named for one William Henshaw , her father's chum , who promptly forgot all about her . 
At eighteen , Billy , being left quite alone in the world , wrote to Uncle William' and asked to come and live with him . 
'' Well ? '' But it wasn't well . 
William was a forty year old widower who lived with two younger brothers , an old butler , and a Chinese cook in one of those funny old Beacon Street houses in Boston . 
The Strata , Bertram called it . 
Bright boy Bertram ! '' The Strata ! '' Yes . 
I wish you could see that house , Arkwright . 
It's a regular layer cake . 
Cyril he's the second brother must be thirty four or five now lives on the top floor in a rugless , curtainless , music mad existence just a plain crank . 
William collects things everything from tenpenny nails to teapots , I should say , and they're all there in his rooms . 
Farther down somewhere comes Bertram . 
He's the Bertram Henshaw , you understand the artist . 
'' Not the Face of a Girl' Henshaw ? '' The same only of course four years ago he wasn't quite so well known as he is now . 
Well , to resume and go on . 
It was into this house , this masculine paradise ruled over by Pete and Dong Ling in the kitchen , that Billy's na i ve request for a home came . 
'' Great Scott ! '' breathed Arkwright , appreciatively . 
Well , the letter was signed Billy . 
They took her for a boy , naturally , and after something of a struggle they agreed to let him' come . 
For his particular delectation they fixed up a room next to Bertram with guns and fishing rods , and such ladylike specialties and William went to the station to meet the boy . 
'' With never a suspicion ? '' With never a suspicion . 
'' Gorry ! '' Well , he' came , and she' conquered . 
I guess things were lively for a while , though . 
Oh , there was a kitten , too , I believe , Spunk , who added to the gayety of nations . 
'' So that's how it happened ! Well , by George ! '' cried Arkwright . 
Yes , '' nodded the other . 
So you see there are untold possibilities just in a name . 
Oh , it's only that I happen to have a devouring curiosity to meet that special young lady . 
, I've heard a lot about her , and I've seen her picture . 
So you see I would , indeed , like to occupy a corner in the fair Miss Billy's household . 
I could write to Aunt Hannah and beg a home with her , you know eh ? '' Of course ! Why don't you Mary Jane' ? '' laughed Calderwell . 
Billy'd take you all right . 
She's had a little Miss Hawthorn , a music teacher , there for months . 
She's always doing stunts of that sort . 
So you see she'd take you , without a doubt . 
But how about it ? '' he asked . 
I thought she was keeping house with Aunt Hannah . 
Didn't she stay at all with the Henshaws ? '' Oh , yes , a few months . 
So she took herself off . 
She went to school , and travelled considerably . 
She was over here when I met her first . 
After that she was with us all one summer on the yacht . 
A couple of years ago , or so , she went back to Boston , bought a house and settled down with Aunt Hannah . 
'' And she's not married or even engaged ? '' Wasn't the last I heard . 
I haven't seen her since December , and I've heard from her only indirectly . 
She corresponds with my sister , and so do I intermittently . 
I heard a month ago from Belle , and she had a letter from Billy in August . 
But I heard nothing of any engagement . 
'' How about the Henshaws ? I should think there might be a chance there for a romance a charming girl , and three unattached men . 
'' Calderwell gave a slow shake of the head . 
William is let me see nearly forty five , I guess , by this time and he isn't a marrying man . 
He buried his heart with his wife and baby years ago . 
Cyril , according to Bertram , hates women and all other confusion , so that ought to let him out . 
As for Bertram himself Bertram is only Bertram . 
Bertram loves girls to paint but I can't imagine him making serious love to any one . 
It would always be the tilt of a chin or the turn of a cheek that he was admiring to paint . 
No , there's no chance for a romance there , I'll warrant . 
'' Calderwell's eyebrows rose the fraction of an inch . 
I presume January or February will find me back there , '' he admitted with a sigh and a shrug . 
Then , a little bitterly , he added No , Arkwright . 
I shall keep away if I can . 
I know there's no chance for me now . 
'' Then you'll leave me a clear field ? '' bantered the other . 
Of course Mary Jane , '' retorted Calderwell , with equal lightness . 
'' Oh , you needn't , '' laughed Calderwell . 
My giving you the right of way doesn't insure you a thoroughfare for yourself there are others , you know . 
Billy Neilson has had sighing swains about I her , I imagine , since she could walk and talk . 
She is a wonderfully fascinating little bit of femininity , and she has a heart of pure gold . 
All is , I envy the man who wins it for the man who wins that , wins her . 
'' There was no answer . 
Arkwright sat with his eyes on the moving throng outside the window near them . 
Perhaps he had not heard . 
At all events , when he spoke some time later , it was of a matter far removed from Miss Billy Neilson , or the way to her heart . 
Nor was the young lady mentioned between them again that day . 
I I'm going home next week . 
'' Home ! Hang it , Arkwright ! I'd counted on you . 
Isn't this rather sudden ? '' Yes , and no . 
I'll own I've been drifting about with you contentedly enough for the last six months to make you think mountain climbing and boat paddling were the end and aim of my existence . 
But they aren't , you know , really . 
'' Nonsense ! At heart you're as much of a vagabond as I am and you know it . 
But unfortunately I don't happen to carry your pocketbook . 
'' You may , if you like . 
I'll hand it over any time , '' grinned Calderwell . 
You know well enough what I mean , '' shrugged the other . 
There was a moment's silence then Calderwell queried Arkwright , how old are you ? '' Twenty four . 
'' Good ! Then you're merely travelling to supplement your education , see ? '' Oh , yes , I see . 
But something besides my education has got to be supplemented now , I reckon . 
You can sing like the devil , '' he admitted . 
Thanks , '' returned his friend , with uplifted eyebrows . 
Do you mind calling it an angel' just for this occasion ? '' Oh , the matin e' e girls will do that fast enough . 
But , I say , Arkwright , what are you going to do with those initials then ? '' Let 'em alone . 
'' Oh , no , you won't . 
And you won't be Mary Jane , either . 
Imagine a Mary Jane in Grand Opera ! I know what you'll be . 
But my going isn't a joke , Calderwell . 
And I'm going to work . 
'' But how shall you manage ? '' Time will tell . 
'' Calderwell frowned and stirred restlessly in his chair . 
But , honestly , now , to to follow that trail of yours will take money . 
'' Thanks , old man . 
'' The red was duplicated this time above the brown silky beard . 
That was mighty kind of you , and I appreciate it but it won't be necessary . 
'' Where you going to study ? New York ? '' Again there was an almost imperceptible hesitation before the answer came . 
I'm not quite prepared to say . 
'' Why not try it here ? '' Arkwright shook his head . 
I did plan to , when I came over but I've changed my mind . 
I believe I'd rather work while longer in America . 
'' Hm m , '' murmured Calderwell . 
There was a brief silence , followed by other questions and other answers after which the friends said good night . 
Her pen had just traced the date , October twenty fifth , '' when Mrs. Stetson entered with a letter in her hand . 
Writing , my dear ? Then don't let me disturb you . 
'' She turned as if to go . 
Billy dropped her pen , sprang to her feet , flew to the little woman's side and whirled her half across the room . 
There ! '' she exclaimed , as she plumped the breathless and scandalized Aunt Hannah into the biggest easy chair . 
I just had to let off steam some way . 
My grief and conscience , Billy ! Wors't you ever grow up ? '' Hope not , '' purred Billy cheerfully , dropping herself on to a low hassock at Aunt Hannah's feet . 
But , my dear , you you're engaged ! '' Billy bubbled into a chuckling laugh . 
Eh ? '' Billy's eyes were roguish . 
You didn't write that in those notes ! '' Write it ? Oh , no ! That's only what I wanted to write , '' chuckled Billy . 
What I really did write was as staid and proper as here , let me show you , '' she broke off , springing to her feet and running over to her desk . 
Hm m that is very good for you , '' admitted the lady . 
Well , I like that ! after all my stern self control and self sacrifice to keep out all those things I wanted to write , '' bridled Billy . 
Besides , they'd have been ever so much more interesting reading than these will be , '' she pouted , as she took the note from her companion's hand . 
I don't doubt it , '' observed Aunt Hannah , dryly . 
Billy laughed , and tossed the note back on the desk . 
I'm writing to Belle Calderwell , now , '' she announced musingly , dropping herself again on the hassock . 
I suppose she'll tell Hugh . 
'' Poor boy ! He'll be disappointed . 
'' Billy sighed , but she uptilted her chin a little . 
He ought not to be . 
I told him long , long ago , the very first time , that that I couldn't . 
'' I know , dear but they don't always understand . 
'' Aunt Hannah sighed in sympathy with the far away Hugh Calderwell , as she looked down at the bright young face near her . 
There was a moment's silence then Billy gave a little laugh . 
He will be surprised , '' she said . 
He told me once that Bertram wouldn't ever care for any girl except to paint . 
To paint , indeed ! As if Bertram didn't love me just me ! if he never saw another tube of paint ! '' I think he does , my dear . 
'' Again there was silence then , from Billy's lips there came softly Just think we've been engaged almost four weeks and to morrow it'll be announced . 
I'm so glad I didn't ever announce the other two ! '' The other two ! '' cried Aunt Hannah . 
You didn't know about Cyril . 
'' Cyril ! '' Oh , there didn't anybody know it , either not even Cyril himself , '' dimpled Billy , mischievously . 
I just engaged myself to him in imagination , you know , to see how I'd like it . 
But it didn't last , anyhow , very long just three weeks , I believe . 
Then I broke it off , '' she finished , with unsmiling mouth , but dancing eyes . 
Billy ! '' protested Aunt Hannah , feebly . 
But I am glad only the family knew about my engagement to Uncle William oh , Aunt Hannah , you don't know how good it does seem to call him Uncle' again . 
It was always slipping out , anyhow , all the time we were engaged and of course it was awful then . 
'' That only goes to prove , my dear , how entirely unsuitable it was , from the start . 
'' A bright color flooded Billy's face . 
A tender light came into Billy's eyes . 
I'm thinking that term belonged somewhere else . 
A month ago , Billy Neilson , you did not look as if you'd live out half your days . 
But I suppose you'd have gone to the altar , too , with never a flicker of an eyelid ! '' But I thought I had to , '' protested Billy . 
I couldn't grieve Uncle William so , after Mrs. Hartwell had said how he he wanted me . 
'' Aunt Hannah's lips grew stern at the corners . 
There are times when when I think it would be wiser if Mrs. Kate Hartwell would attend to her own affairs ! '' Aunt Hannah's voice fairly shook with wrath . 
Why Aunt Hannah ! '' reproved Billy in mischievous horror . 
I'm shocked at you ! '' Aunt Hannah flushed miserably . 
There , there , child , forget I said it . 
I ought not to have said it , of course , '' she murmured agitatedly . 
You should have heard what Uncle William said ! But never mind . 
We all found out the mistake before it was too late , and everything is lovely now , even to Cyril and Marie . 
If I'm not actually forgetting what I came in here for , '' cried Aunt Hannah , fumbling in the folds of her dress for the letter that had slipped from her lap . 
I've had word from a young niece . 
She's going to study music in Boston . 
'' A niece ? '' Well , not really , you know . 
She calls me Aunt , just as you and the Henshaw boys do . 
But I really am related to her , for her mother and I are third cousins , while it was my husband who was distantly related to the Henshaw family . 
'' What's her name ? '' Mary Jane Arkwright . 
Where is that letter ? '' Here it is , on the floor , '' reported Billy . 
Were you going to read it to me ? '' she asked , as she picked it up . 
Yes if you don't mind . 
'' I'd love to hear it . 
'' Then I'll read it . 
It it rather annoys me in some ways . 
I thought the whole family understood that I wasn't living by myself any longer that I was living with you . 
I'm sure I thought I wrote them that , long ago . 
But this sounds almost as if they didn't understand it at least , as if this girl didn't . 
'' You don't remember her , then ? '' Aunt Hannah frowned and paused , the letter half withdrawn from its envelope . 
No but that isn't strange . 
I haven't seen any of them for years . 
I know there are several children and I suppose I've been told their names . 
Very well , '' sighed Aunt Hannah and she opened the letter and began to read . 
DEAR AUNT HANNAH This is to tell you that I'm coming to Boston to study singing in the school for Grand Opera , and I'm planning to look you up . 
But I know I shall be lonesome , Aunt Hannah , and I hope you'll let me see you once in a while , anyway . 
I plan now to come next week I've already got as far as New York , as you see by the address and I shall hope to see you soon . 
All the family would send love , I know . 
'' Grand Opera ! Oh , how perfectly lovely , '' cried Billy . 
'' Billy frowned and hesitated . 
Why , it sounded a little that way but '' Suddenly her face cleared . 
Aunt Hannah , I've thought of the very thing . 
We will take her ! '' Oh , Billy , I couldn't think of letting you do that , '' demurred Aunt Hannah . 
You're very kind but , oh , no not that ! '' Why not ? I think it would be lovely and we can just as well as not . 
After Marie is married in December , she can have that room . 
Until then she can have the little blue room next to me . 
'' But but we don't know anything about her . 
'' We know she's your niece , and she's lonesome and we know she's musical . 
I shall love her for every one of those things . 
Of course we'll take her ! '' But I don't know anything about her age . 
'' All the more reason why she should be looked out for , then , '' retorted Billy , promptly . 
But what if we we shouldn't like her ? '' Nonsense ! What if she shouldn't like us ? '' laughed Billy . 
However , if you'd feel better , just ask her to come and stay with us a month . 
We shall keep her all right , afterwards . 
See if we don't ! '' Slowly Aunt Hannah got to her feet . 
I'll write , of course , as you tell me to and it's lovely of you to do it . 
Now I'll leave you to your letters . 
I've hindered you far too long , as it is . 
'' You've rested me , '' declared Billy , flinging wide her arms . 
Aunt Hannah , fearing a second dizzying whirl impelled by those same young arms , drew her shawls about her shoulders and backed hastily toward the hall door . 
Oh , I won't again to day , '' she promised merrily . 
Then , as the lady reached the arched doorway Tell Mary Jane to let us know the day and train and we'll meet her . 
Oh , and Aunt Hannah , tell her to wear a pink a white pink and tell her we will , too , '' she finished gayly . 
CHAPTER III BILLY AND BERTRAM Bertram called that evening . 
Why , darling , what's the matter ? '' he demanded , his own eyes growing wide and frightened . 
Bertram , it's done ! '' What's done ? What do you mean ? '' Our engagement . 
I wrote stacks of notes to day , and even now there are some left for to morrow . 
And then there's the newspapers . 
Bertram , right away , now , everybody will know it . 
'' Her voice was tragic . 
A tender light came to his eyes . 
Well , didn't you expect everybody would know it , my dear ? '' Y yes but '' At her hesitation , the tender light changed to a quick fear . 
Billy , you aren't sorry ? '' The pink glory that suffused her face answered him before her words did . 
Sorry ! Oh , never , Bertram ! It's only that it won't be ours any longer that is , it won't belong to just our two selves . 
And they'll bow and smile and say How lovely ! to our faces , and Did you ever ? to our backs . 
Oh , no , I'm not sorry , Bertram but I am afraid . 
'' Afraid Billy ! '' Yes . 
'' Billy sighed , and gazed with pensive eyes into the fire . 
Across Bertram's face swept surprise , consternation , and dismay . 
Bertram had thought he knew Billy in all her moods and fancies but he did not know her in this one . 
Why , Billy ! '' he breathed . 
It seemed to come from the very bottoms of her small , satin slippered feet . 
You know lots and lots of people that I never even saw . 
And they'll come and stand around and stare and lift their lorgnettes and say Is that the one ? Dear me ! '' Bertram gave a relieved laugh . 
Nonsense , sweetheart ! I should think you were a picture I'd painted and hung on a wall . 
'' I shall feel as if I were with all those friends of yours . 
Bertram , what if they don't like it ? '' Her voice had grown tragic again . 
Like it ! '' Yes . 
The picture me , I mean . 
'' They can't help liking it , '' he retorted , with the prompt certainty of an adoring lover . 
Her eyes had gone back to the fire . 
Oh , yes , they can . 
But the words that followed the laugh , and the caressing touch of the man's hands sent a flood of shy color to her face . 
Yes if there be any , '' laughed Bertram , fondly . 
But , see , '' he added , taking a tiny box from his pocket , see what I've brought for this same Billy to wear . 
She'd have had it long ago if she hadn't insisted on waiting for this announcement business . 
Now you are mine really mine , sweetheart ! '' The man's voice and hand shook as he slipped the ring on Billy's outstretched finger . 
Billy caught her breath with almost a sob . 
And I'm so glad to be yours , dear , '' she murmured brokenly . 
And and I'll make you proud that I am yours , even if I am just Billy , '' she choked . 
Oh , I know I'll write such beautiful , beautiful songs now . 
'' The man drew her into a close embrace . 
As if I cared for that , '' he scoffed lovingly . 
Billy looked up in quick horror . 
Why , Bertram , you don't mean you don't care ? '' He laughed lightly , and took the dismayed little face between his two hands . 
Care , darling ? of course I care ! You know how I love your music . 
I care about everything that concerns you . 
I meant that I'm proud of you now just you . 
I love you , you know . 
'' There was a moment's pause . 
Billy's eyes , as they looked at him , carried a curious intentness in their dark depths . 
You mean , you like the turn of my head and the tilt of my chin ? '' she asked a little breathlessly . 
I adore them ! '' came the prompt answer . 
To Bertram's utter amazement , Billy drew back with a sharp cry . 
No , no not that ! '' Why , Billy ! '' Billy laughed unexpectedly then she sighed . 
Oh , it's all right , of course , '' she assured him hastily . 
It's only '' Billy stopped and blushed . 
Well only what ? '' demanded Bertram . 
Billy blushed the more deeply , but she gave a light laugh . 
Nothing , only something Hugh Calderwell said to me once . 
You see , Bertram , I don't think Hugh ever thought you would marry . 
'' Oh , didn't he ? '' bridled Bertram . 
Well , that only goes to show how much he knows about it . 
Er did you announce it to him ? '' Bertram's voice was almost savage now . 
No but I did to his sister , and she'll tell him . 
Oh , Bertram , such a time as I had over those notes , '' went on Billy , with a chuckle . 
Her eyes were dancing , and she was seeming more like her usual self , Bertram thought . 
Billy threw him a roguish glance . 
Goosey ! You are as bad as Aunt Hannah ! I said that was what I wanted to say . 
What I really said was quite another matter , '' she finished with a saucy uptilting of her chin . 
Bertram relaxed with a laugh . 
You witch ! '' His admiring eyes still lingered on her face . 
Billy , I'm going to paint you sometime in just that pose . 
You're adorable ! '' Pooh ! Just another face of a girl , '' teased the adorable one . 
Bertram gave a sudden exclamation . 
There ! And I haven't told you , yet . 
Guess what my next commission is . 
'' To paint a portrait ? '' Yes . 
Who is it ? '' J. G. Winthrop's daughter . 
'' Not the J. G. Winthrop ? '' The same . 
She hasn't been in Boston for years until now . 
'' No , I haven't seen her . 
Is she so very beautiful ? '' Billy spoke a little soberly . 
'' The artist lifted his head alertly . 
What Billy called his painting look'' came to his face . 
It isn't that her features are so regular though her mouth and chin are perfect . 
'' Will it ? I'm so glad and you'll get it , I know you will , '' claimed Billy , clearing her throat a little nervously . 
I wish I felt so sure , '' sighed Bertram . 
But it'll be a great thing if I do get it J. G. Winthrop's daughter , you know , besides the merit of the likeness itself . 
'' Yes yes , indeed ! '' Billy cleared her throat again . 
You've seen her , of course , lately ? '' Oh , yes . 
I was there half the morning discussing the details sittings and costume , and deciding on the pose . 
'' Did you find one to suit ? '' Find one ! '' The artist made a despairing gesture . 
I found a dozen that I wanted . 
The trouble was to tell which I wanted the most . 
'' Billy gave a nervous little laugh . 
Isn't that unusual ? '' she asked . 
Bertram lifted his eyebrows with a quizzical smile . 
Well , they aren't all Marguerite Winthrops , '' he reminded her . 
Marguerite ! '' cried Billy . 
Oh , is her name Marguerite ? I do think Marguerite is the dearest name ! '' Billy's eyes and voice were wistful . 
I don't not the dearest . 
I'm afraid you're not a good judge of names , '' she objected . 
Yes , I am though , for that matter , I should love your name , no matter what it was . 
'' Even if 'twas Mary Jane , eh ? '' bantered Billy . 
Well , you'll have a chance to find out how you like that name pretty quick , sir . 
We're going to have one here . 
'' You're going to have a Mary Jane here ? Do you mean that Rosa's going away ? '' Mercy ! I hope not , '' shuddered Billy . 
You don't find a Rosa in every kitchen and never in employment agencies ! My Mary Jane is a niece of Aunt Hannah's , or rather , a cousin . 
She's coming to Boston to study music , and I've invited her here . 
We've asked her for a month , though I presume we shall keep her right along . 
Well , of course , that's very nice for Mary Jane , '' he sighed with meaning emphasis . 
She won't bother us any . 
'' Oh , yes , she will , '' sighed Bertram . 
She'll be 'round lots you see if she isn't . 
Billy , I think sometimes you're almost too kind to other folks . 
'' Never ! '' laughed Billy . 
Besides , what would you have me do when a lonesome young girl was coming to Boston ? Anyhow , you're not the one to talk , young man . 
I've known you to take in a lonesome girl and give her a home , '' she flashed merrily . 
Jove ! What a time that was ! '' he exclaimed , regarding his companion with fond eyes . 
And Spunk , too ! Is she going to bring a Spunk ? '' Not that I've heard , '' smiled Billy but she is going to wear a pink . 
'' Not really , Billy ? '' Of course she is ! I told her to . 
How do you suppose we could know her when we saw her , if she didn't ? '' demanded the girl , indignantly . 
And what is more , sir , there will be two pinks worn this time . 
I sha'n't do as Uncle William did , and leave off my pink . 
Well , your Mary Jane won't probably turn out to be quite such a bombshell as our Billy did unless she should prove to be a boy , '' he added whimsically . 
Oh , but Billy , she can't turn out to be such a dear treasure , '' finished the man . 
And at the adoring look in his eyes Billy blushed deeply and promptly forgot all about Mary Jane and her pink . 
CHAPTER IV FOR MARY JANE I have a letter here from Mary Jane , my dear , '' announced Aunt Hannah at the luncheon table one day . 
Have you ? '' Billy raised interested eyes from her own letters . 
What does she say ? '' She will be here Thursday . 
Her train is due at the South Station at four thirty . 
'' Nonsense ! She doesn't refuse , does she ? '' Oh , no she doesn't refuse but she doesn't accept either , exactly , as I can see . 
I've read the letter over twice , too . 
I'll let you judge for yourself by and by , when you have time to read it . 
I don't want to read it . 
She's just a little shy about coming , that's all . 
She'll stay all right , when we come to meet her . 
What time did you say it was , Thursday ? '' Half past four , South Station . 
'' Thursday , at half past four . 
Let me see that's the day of the Carletons' At Home , isn't it ? '' Oh , my grief and conscience , yes ! But I had forgotten it . 
What shall we do ? '' Oh , that will be easy . 
We'll just go to the Carletons' early and have John wait , then take us from there to the South Station . 
Meanwhile we'll make sure that the little blue room is all ready for her . 
I put in my white enamel work basket yesterday , and that pretty little blue case for hairpins and curling tongs that I bought at the fair . 
I want the room to look homey to her , you know . 
'' As if it could look any other way , if you had anything to do with it , '' sighed Aunt Hannah , admiringly . 
If we get stranded we might ask the Henshaw boys to help us out , Aunt Hannah . 
They'd probably suggest guns and swords . 
That's the way they fixed up my room . 
'' Aunt Hannah raised shocked hands of protest . 
As if we would ! Mercy , what a time that was ! '' Billy laughed again . 
I never shall forget , never , my first glimpse of that room when Mrs. Hartwell switched on the lights . 
Dear Uncle William ! What an old saint he has been all the way through , '' mused Billy aloud . 
It's been just seven days , you know . 
She comes to morrow , doesn't she ? '' Yes , and I'm glad . 
I shall tell Marie she needn't leave Cyril on my hands again . 
By the way , '' she added , as she rose from the table , that's another surprise in store for Hugh Calderwell . 
He always declared that Cyril wasn't a marrying man , either , any more than Bertram . 
You know he said Bertram only cared for girls to paint but '' She stopped and looked inquiringly at Rosa , who had appeared at that moment in the hall doorway . 
It's the telephone , Miss Neilson . 
Mr. Bertram Henshaw wants you . 
'' A few minutes later Aunt Hannah heard Billy at the piano . 
At the end of forty five minutes Aunt Hannah went down stairs . 
Her fingers busied themselves with some music on the piano . 
We aren't going , Aunt Hannah , '' she said . 
'' Can't ! '' Well , he didn't want to so of course I said not to . 
He's been painting this morning on a new portrait , and she said he might stay to luncheon and keep right on for a while this afternoon , if he liked . 
And he did like , so he stayed . 
'' Why , how how '' Aunt Hannah stopped helplessly . 
Oh , no , not at all , '' interposed Billy , lightly . 
He told me all about it the other night . 
Slowly Aunt Hannah turned and went up stairs . 
Not since Billy's engagement had she heard Billy play like that . 
Bertram did not find a pensive Billy awaiting him that evening . 
Sweetheart , you were a dear this noon to let me off like that , '' he began in a voice shaken with emotion . 
You don't know , perhaps , exactly what you did . 
You see , I was nearly wild between wanting to be with you , and wanting to go on with my work . 
And I was just at that point where one little word from you , one hint that you wanted me to come anyway and I should have come . 
But you didn't say it , nor hint it . 
Like the brave little bit of inspiration that you are , you bade me stay and go on with my work . 
And so I stayed , Billy , and I did good work I know I did good work . 
Why , Billy , '' Bertram stepped back now , and held Billy by the shoulders at arms' length Billy , that's going to be the best work I've ever done . 
I can see it coming even now , under my fingers . 
'' Billy lifted her head and looked into her lover's face . 
His whole countenance was aflame with the soul of the artist who sees his vision taking shape before him . 
And Billy , looking at him , felt suddenly ashamed . 
Oh , Bertram , I'm proud , proud , proud of you ! '' she breathed . 
Come , let's go over to the fire and talk ! '' CHAPTER V MARIE SPEAKS HER MIND Billy with John and Peggy met Marie Hawthorn at the station . 
Peggy'' was short for Pegasus , '' and was what Billy always called her luxurious , seven seated touring car . 
I simply won't call it automobile , '' she had declared when she bought it . 
Neither will I insult the beautiful thing by calling it a machine . 
I shall call it Peggy . 
'' And Peggy'' she called it . 
When Marie Hawthorn stepped from the train at the North Station she greeted Billy with affectionate warmth , though at once her blue eyes swept the space beyond expectantly and eagerly . 
Billy's lips curved in a mischievous smile . 
No , he didn't come , '' she said . 
He didn't want to a little bit . 
'' Marie grew actually pale . 
Didn't want to ! '' she stammered . 
Billy gave her a spasmodic hug . 
Goosey ! No , he didn't a little bit but he did a great big bit . 
As if you didn't know he was dying to come , Marie ! But he simply couldn't something about his concert Monday night . 
But he's coming to dinner to night , so he'll doubtless tell you all about it . 
'' Marie sighed her relief . 
Oh , that's all right then . 
I was afraid he was sick when I didn't see him . 
No , he isn't sick , Marie but you needn't go away again before the wedding not to leave him on my hands . 
I wouldn't have believed Cyril Henshaw , confirmed old bachelor and avowed woman hater , could have acted the part of a love sick boy as he has the last week or two . 
'' The rose flush on Marie's cheek spread to the roots of her fine yellow hair . 
Billy , dear , he he didn't ! '' Marie , dear he he did ! '' Marie laughed . 
She did not say anything , but the rose flush deepened as she occupied herself very busily in getting her trunk check from the little hand bag she carried . 
Cyril was not mentioned again until the two girls , veils tied and coats buttoned , were snugly ensconced in the tonneau , and Peggy's nose was turned toward home . 
Then Billy asked Have you settled on where you're going to live ? '' Not quite . 
We're going to talk of that to night but we do know that we aren't going to live at the Strata . 
'' Marie ! '' Marie stirred uneasily at the obvious disappointment and reproach in her friend's voice . 
But , dear , it wouldn't be wise , I'm sure , '' she argued hastily . 
There will be you and Bertram '' We sha'n't be there for a year , nearly , '' cut in Billy , with swift promptness . 
Besides , I think it would be lovely all together . 
'' Marie smiled , but she shook her head . 
Lovely but not practical , dear . 
I know you're worrying about those puddings of yours . 
'' Billy , what are you talking about ? '' Billy threw a roguish glance into her friend's amazed blue eyes . 
Did he say that ? '' Yes . 
Oh , he declared he shouldn't want her to sit under that lamp all the time , of course but he hoped she'd like that sort of thing . 
'' Marie threw a quick glance at the stolid back of John beyond the two empty seats in front of them . 
Although she knew he could not hear her words , instinctively she lowered her voice . 
Did you know then about me ? '' she asked , with heightened color . 
No , only that there was a girl somewhere who , he hoped , would sit under the lamp some day . 
Then I knew , of course , 'twas you , for I'd heard you say the same thing . 
So I sent him right along out to you in the summer house . 
'' The pink flush on Marie's face grew to a red one . 
Her blue eyes turned again to John's broad back , then drifted to the long , imposing line of windowed walls and doorways on the right . 
The automobile was passing smoothly along Beacon Street now with the Public Garden just behind them on the left . 
After a moment Marie turned to Billy again . 
I'm so glad he wants just puddings and stockings , '' she began a little breathlessly . 
You see , for so long I supposed he wouldn't want anything but a very brilliant , talented wife who could play and sing beautifully a wife he'd be proud of like you . 
'' Me ? Nonsense ! '' laughed Billy . 
Cyril never wanted me , and I never wanted him only once for a few minutes , so to speak , when I thought , I did . 
In spite of our music , we aren't a mite congenial . 
I like people around he doesn't . 
I like to go to plays he doesn't . 
He likes rainy days , and I abhor them . 
Mercy ! Life with me for him would be one long jangling discord , my love , while with you it'll be one long sweet song ! '' Marie drew a deep breath . 
Her eyes were fixed on a point far ahead up the curveless street . 
I hope it will , indeed ! '' she breathed . 
'' Er yes , Cyril told me , '' admitted Marie . 
Didn't like it , I suppose eh ? '' she queried shrewdly . 
N no , I'm afraid he didn't very well . 
He said she'd be one more to be around . 
'' There , what did I tell you ? '' dimpled Billy . 
The man lifted his hat and waved it gayly , baring a slightly bald head to the sun . 
It's Uncle William bless his heart ! '' cried Billy . 
I hope you won't be lonesome , '' she finished mischievously , as the car drew up before the door . 
CHAPTER VI AT THE SIGN OF THE PINK After a week of beautiful autumn weather , Thursday dawned raw and cold . 
By noon an east wind had made the temperature still more uncomfortable . 
At two o'clock Aunt Hannah tapped at Billy's chamber door . 
She showed a troubled face to the girl who answered her knock . 
Billy , would you mind very much if I asked you to go alone to the Carletons' and to meet Mary Jane ? '' she inquired anxiously . 
Why , no that is , of course I should mind , dear , because I always like to have you go to places with me . 
No , I'm not cold , and I haven't felt a draft , '' said Aunt Hannah now . 
I put on my thickest gray shawl this morning with the little pink one for down stairs , and the blue one for breakfast so you see I've been very careful . 
But I have sneezed six times , so I think 'twould be safer not to go out in this east wind . 
You were going to stop for Mrs. Granger , anyway , weren't you ? So you'll have her with you for the tea . 
'' Yes , dear , don't worry . 
I'll take your cards and explain to Mrs. Carleton and her daughters . 
Not a bit , '' smiled Billy , cheerily . 
Don't give it another thought , my dear . 
I sha'n't have a bit of trouble . 
All I'll have to do is to look for a girl alone with a pink . 
Of course I'll have mine on , too , and she'll be watching for me . 
Well , thank you , my dear perhaps I will , '' sighed Aunt Hannah , drawing the gray shawl about her as she turned away contentedly . 
Mrs. Carleton's tea that afternoon was , for Billy , not an occasion of unalloyed joy . 
But Billy did not stay long in Mrs. Carleton's softly lighted , flower perfumed rooms . 
At ten minutes past four she was saying good by to a group of friends who were vainly urging her to remain longer . 
I can't I really can't , '' she declared . 
I'm due at the South Station at half past four to meet a Miss Arkwright , a young cousin of Aunt Hannah's , whom I've never seen before . 
We're to meet at the sign of the pink , '' she explained smilingly , just touching the single flower she wore . 
Her hostess gave a sudden laugh . 
Let me see , my dear if I remember rightly , you've had experience before , meeting at this sign of the pink . 
At least , I have a very vivid recollection of Mr. William Henshaw's going once to meet a boy with a pink , who turned out to be a girl . 
Now , to even things up , your girl should turn out to be a boy ! '' Billy smiled and reddened . 
Perhaps but I don't think to day will strike the balance , '' she retorted , backing toward the door . 
'' At twenty nine minutes past four Billy left her seat and walked down the train shed platform to Track Number Fourteen . 
She had pinned the pink now to the outside of her long coat , and it made an attractive dash of white against the dark blue velvet . 
Billy was looking particularly lovely to day . 
Framing her face was the big dark blue velvet picture hat with its becoming white plumes . 
Dear Uncle William ! '' she murmured tenderly . 
Then suddenly she laughed so nearly aloud that a man behind her gave her a covert glance from curious eyes . 
My ! but what a jolt I must have been to Uncle William ! '' Billy was thinking . 
The next minute she drew nearer the gate and regarded with absorbed attention the long line of passengers already sweeping up the narrow aisle between the cars . 
Hurrying men came first , with long strides , and eyes that looked straight ahead . 
These Billy let pass with a mere glance . 
The next group showed a sprinkling of women women whose trig hats and linen collars spelled promptness as well as certainty of aim and accomplishment . 
To these , also , Billy paid scant attention . 
The crowd was thickening fast , now , and Billy's eyes were alert . 
Children were appearing , and young women walking alone . 
One of these wore a bunch of violets . 
Billy gave her a second glance . 
Then she saw a pink but it was on the coat lapel of a tall young fellow with a brown beard so with a slight frown she looked beyond down the line . 
Old men came now , and old women fleshy women , and women with small children and babies . 
Couples came , too dawdling couples , plainly newly married the men were not two steps ahead , and the women's gloves were buttoned and their furs in place . 
Gradually the line thinned , and soon there were left only an old man with a cane , and a young woman with three children . 
Yet nowhere had Billy seen a girl wearing a white carnation , and walking alone . 
With a deeper frown on her face Billy turned and looked about her . 
She thought that somewhere in the crowd she had missed Mary Jane , and that she would find her now , standing near . 
As she glanced toward him , their eyes met . 
Then , to Billy's unbounded amazement , the man advanced with uplifted hat . 
I beg your pardon , but is not this Miss Neilson ? '' Billy drew back with just a touch of hauteur . 
Y yes , '' she murmured . 
I thought so yet I was expecting to see you with Aunt Hannah . 
I am M. J. Arkwright , Miss Neilson . 
'' For a brief instant Billy stared dazedly . 
You don't mean Mary Jane ? '' she gasped . 
But I thought we were expecting '' She stopped helplessly . 
For one more brief instant she stared then , suddenly , a swift change came to her face . 
Oh oh ! '' she chuckled . 
How perfectly funny ! You have evened things up , after all . 
To think that Mary Jane should be a '' She paused and flashed almost angrily suspicious eyes into his face . 
But mine was Billy , '' she cried . 
Your name isn't really Mary Jane' ? '' I am often called that . 
'' His brown eyes twinkled , but they did not swerve from their direct gaze into her own . 
But '' Billy hesitated , and turned her eyes away . 
She saw then that many curious glances were already being flung in her direction . 
The color in her cheeks deepened . 
With an odd little gesture she seemed to toss something aside . 
Never mind , '' she laughed a little hysterically . 
If you'll pick up your bag , please , Mr. Mary Jane , and come with me . 
John and Peggy are waiting . 
Or I forgot you have a trunk , of course ? '' The man raised a protesting hand . 
Thank you but , Miss Neilson , really I couldn't think of trespassing on your hospitality now , you know . 
'' But we we invited you , '' stammered Billy . 
You invited Miss Mary Jane . 
'' Billy bubbled into low laughter . 
I beg your pardon , but it is funny , '' she sighed . 
Thank you , but I shall go to a hotel , of course . 
Later , if you'll be so good as to let me call , and explain ! '' But I'm afraid Aunt Hannah will think '' Billy stopped abruptly . 
Some distance away she saw John coming toward them . 
She turned hurriedly to the man at her side . 
Her eyes still danced , but her voice was mockingly serious . 
Really , Mr. Mary Jane , I'm afraid you'll have to come to dinner then you can settle the rest with Aunt Hannah . 
John is almost upon us and I don't want to make explanations . 
, take Mr. Arkwright's bag , please , and show him where Peggy is waiting . 
It will be five minutes , perhaps , before I can come if you'll kindly excuse me , '' she added to Arkwright , with a flashing glance from merry eyes . 
I have some telephoning to do . 
'' All the way to the telephone booth Billy was trying to bring order out of the chaos of her mind but all the way , too , she was chuckling . 
To think that this thing should have happened to me ! '' she said , almost aloud . 
And here I am telephoning just like Uncle William Bertram said Uncle William did telephone about me ! '' In due course Billy had Aunt Hannah at the other end of the wire . 
I'd never have believed it , but it's happened . 
Mary Jane is a man . 
'' Billy heard a dismayed gasp and a muttered Oh , my grief and conscience ! '' then a shaking Wha at ? '' I say , Mary Jane is a man . 
'' Billy was enjoying herself hugely . 
A ma an ! '' Yes a great big man with a brown beard . 
He's waiting now with John and I must go . 
'' But , Billy , I don't understand , '' chattered an agitated voice over the line . 
He he called himself Mary Jane . 
You asked him ! How he will like that little blue room Aunt Hannah ! '' Billy's voice turned suddenly tragic . 
For pity's sake take out those curling tongs and hairpins , and the work basket . 
I'd never hear the last of it if he saw those , I know . 
He's just that kind ! '' A half stifled groan came over the wire . 
Billy , he can't stay here . 
No , no , dear he won't , I know . 
He says he's going to a hotel . 
But I had to bring him home to dinner there was no other way , under the circumstances . 
Remember those curling tongs ! '' And the receiver clicked sharply against the hook . 
In the automobile some minutes later , Billy and Mr. M. J. Arkwright were speeding toward Corey Hill . 
It was during a slight pause in the conversation that Billy turned to her companion with a demure I telephoned Aunt Hannah , Mr. Arkwright . 
I thought she ought to be warned . 
'' You are very kind . 
What did she say ? if I may ask . 
'' There was a brief moment of hesitation before Billy answered . 
She said you called yourself Mary Jane , and that you hadn't any business to be a big man with a brown beard . 
I'm afraid I owe Aunt Hannah an apology , '' he said . 
He hesitated , glanced admiringly at the glowing , half averted face near him , then went on decisively . 
He wore the air of a man who has set the match to his bridges . 
I signed both letters M. J. Arkwright , but in the first one I quoted a remark of a friend , and in that remark I was addressed as Mary Jane . 
I did not know but Aunt Hannah knew of the nickname . 
But when she answered , I saw that she did not for , from something she said , I realized that she thought I was a real Mary Jane . 
For the joke of the thing I let it pass . 
But if she noticed my letter carefully , she saw that I did not accept your kind invitation to give Mary Jane' a home . 
'' Yes , we noticed that , '' nodded Billy , merrily . 
But we didn't think you meant it . 
You see we pictured you as a shy young thing . 
And only to day a lady warned me that your coming might even things up . 
But I didn't believe it would a Mary Jane ! '' Arkwright laughed . 
Again he hesitated , and seemed to be weighing his words . 
Yes , I heard about that coming of yours . 
I might almost say that's why I let the mistake pass in Aunt Hannah's letter , '' he said . 
Billy turned with reproachful eyes . 
Oh , how could you ? But then it was a temptation ! '' She laughed suddenly . 
What sinful joy you must have had watching me hunt for Mary Jane . 
'' I didn't , '' acknowledged the other , with unexpected candor . 
And when I saw you were there alone without Aunt Hannah , I came very near not speaking at all until I realized that that would be even worse , under the circumstances . 
'' Of course it would , '' smiled Billy , brightly so I don't see but I shall have to forgive you , after all . 
And here we are at home , Mr. Mary Jane . 
By the way , what did you say that M. J. did stand for ? '' she asked , as the car came to a stop . 
The man did not seem to hear at least he did not answer . 
He was helping his hostess to alight . 
A moment later a plainly agitated Aunt Hannah her gray shawl topped with a huge black one opened the door of the house . 
Her countenance , too , carried a peculiar something that the artist's eye was quick to detect , and that the artist's fingers tingled to put on canvas . 
Jove ! Billy , '' he said low in her ear , as he greeted her , I wish I had a brush in my hand this minute . 
I'd have a Face of a Girl' that would be worth while ! '' Billy laughed and dimpled her appreciation but down in her heart she was conscious of a vague unrest . 
Billy wished , sometimes , that she did not so often seem to Bertram a picture . 
She turned to Cyril with outstretched hand . 
Oh , yes , Marie's coming , '' she smiled in answer to the quick shifting of Cyril's eyes to the hall doorway . 
And Aunt Hannah , too . 
'' And Mary Jane ? '' demanded William , a little anxiously Will's getting nervous , '' volunteered Bertram , airily . 
He wants to see Mary Jane . 
You see we've told him that we shall expect him to see that she doesn't bother us four too much , you know . 
He's expected always to remove her quietly but effectually , whenever he sees that she is likely to interrupt a t e te a ! t e te . 
Naturally , then , Will wants to see Mary Jane . 
'' Billy began to laugh hysterically . 
She dropped into a chair and raised both her hands , palms outward . 
Don't , don't please don't ! '' she choked , or I shall die . 
I've had all I can stand , already . 
Billy dropped her hands and lifted her head . 
By heroic effort she pulled her face into sobriety all but her eyes and announced Mary Jane is a man . 
'' Wha at ? '' A man ! '' Billy ! '' Three masculine forms sat suddenly erect . 
Oh , Uncle William , I know now just how you felt I know , I know , '' gurgled Billy , incoherently . 
A man ! Mary Jane ! '' Cyril was merely cross . 
Billy , what does this mean ? '' Bertram had grown a little white . 
Billy began to laugh again , yet she was plainly trying to control herself . 
Aunt Hannah is keeping him up stairs so I can tell you , '' she panted . 
Oh , it was so funny ! '' Billy , my my dear , '' remonstrated Uncle William , mildly . 
But what is his name ? '' demanded Cyril . 
Did the creature sign himself Mary Jane' ? '' exploded Bertram . 
I don't know his name , except that it's M. J. and that's how he signed the letters . 
Didn't he write again ? '' asked William . 
'' Well , why didn't he correct the mistake , then ? '' demanded Bertram . 
He didn't want to , I guess . 
He thought it was too good a joke . 
'' Joke ! '' scoffed Cyril . 
But , see here , Billy , he isn't going to live here now ? '' Bertram's voice was almost savage . 
Oh , no , he isn't going to live here now , '' interposed smooth tones from the doorway . 
Mr. Arkwright ! '' breathed Billy , confusedly . 
Three crimson faced men sprang to their feet . 
The situation , for a moment , threatened embarrassed misery for all concerned but Arkwright , with a cheery smile , advanced straight toward Bertram , and held out a friendly hand . 
The proverbial fate of listeners , '' he said easily but I don't blame you at all . 
Billy laughed in relief , and motioned Mr. Arkwright to a seat near her . 
William said Of course , of course ! '' and shook hands again . 
Bertram and Cyril laughed shamefacedly and sat down . 
Somebody said But what does the M. J. stand for , anyhow ? '' Nobody answered this , however perhaps because Aunt Hannah and Marie appeared just then in the doorway . 
Dinner proved to be a lively meal . 
After dinner somebody suggested music . 
Cyril frowned , and got up abruptly . 
Still frowning , he turned to a bookcase near him and began to take down and examine some of the books . 
Bertram twinkled and glanced at Billy . 
Which is it , Cyril ? '' he called with cheerful impertinence stool , piano , or audience that is the matter to night ? '' Only a shrug from Cyril answered . 
I don't feel like playing to night that's all . 
'' You see , '' nodded Bertram again . 
I see , '' bowed Arkwright with quiet amusement . 
I believe Mr. Mary Jane sings , '' observed Billy , at this point , demurely . 
Why , yes , of course , chimed in Aunt Hannah with some nervousness . 
That's what she I mean he was coming to Boston for to study music . 
Won't you sing , please ? '' asked Billy . 
Can you without your notes ? I have lots of songs if you want them . 
'' For a moment but only a moment Arkwright hesitated then he rose and went to the piano . 
Cyril's chin had lifted at the first tone . 
He was listening now with very obvious pleasure . 
Bertram , too , was showing by his attitude the keenest appreciation . 
William and Aunt Hannah , resting back in their chairs , were contentedly nodding their approval to each other . 
Marie in her corner was motionless with rapture . 
As to Billy Billy was plainly oblivious of everything but the song and the singer . 
She seemed scarcely to move or to breathe till the song's completion then there came a low Oh , how beautiful ! '' through her parted lips . 
Bertram , looking at her , was conscious of a vague irritation . 
Arkwright , you're a lucky dog , '' he declared almost crossly . 
I wish I could sing like that ! '' I wish I could paint a Face of a Girl , '' smiled the tenor as he turned from the piano . 
Oh , but , Mr. Arkwright , don't stop , '' objected Billy , springing to her feet and going to her music cabinet by the piano . 
There's a little song of Nevin's I want you to sing . 
There , here it is . 
Just let me play it for you . 
'' And she slipped into the place the singer had just left . 
It was the beginning of the end . 
After Nevin came De Koven , and after De Koven , Gounod . 
Then came Nevin again , Billy still playing the accompaniment . 
Billy did not consider herself much of a singer , but her voice was sweet and true , and not without training . 
It blended very prettily with the clear , pure tenor . 
William and Aunt Hannah still smiled contentedly in their chairs , though Aunt Hannah had reached for the pink shawl near her the music had sent little shivers down her spine . 
Bertram , still sitting stiffly erect in his chair , was not conscious of a vague irritation now . 
He wished he could sing . 
He wondered how long it took to teach a man to sing , anyhow and he wondered if a man could sing who never had sung . 
At this point the duet came to an end , and Billy and her guest left the piano . 
William went home then , and Aunt Hannah went up stairs . 
Cyril and Marie withdrew into a still more secluded corner to look at their plans , and Bertram found himself at last alone with Billy . 
Bertram's manner said Oh , yes , anybody can sing . 
Aunt Hannah wore only one shawl this morning , which meant that she was feeling unusually well . 
Aunt Hannah smiled tranquilly , but she did not speak . 
I suppose you don't happen to know if Cyril does wear big holes in his socks , '' resumed Billy , after a moment's silence . 
If you'll believe it , that thought popped into my head last night when Cyril was playing that concerto so superbly . 
It did , actually right in the middle of the adagio movement , too . 
'' Billy ! '' gasped the shocked Aunt Hannah but the gasp broke at once into what in Aunt Hannah passed for a chuckle . 
'' Horrors ! '' Billy waved her stocking in mock despair . 
That will never do in the world . 
It would break Marie's heart . 
You know how she dotes on darning . 
'' Yes , I know , '' smiled Aunt Hannah . 
By the way , where is she this morning ? '' Billy raised her eyebrows quizzically . 
Gone to look at an apartment in Cambridge , I believe . 
Her trousseau ! Oh , yes , it was . 
I'll tell you what she got for her trousseau that first day . 
Marie got into the kitchen department and I simply couldn't get her out of it . 
But the next day I was not to be inveigled below stairs by any plaintive prayer for a nutmeg grater or a soda spoon . 
She shopped that day , and to some purpose . 
'' Aunt Hannah looked a little concerned . 
But she must have some things started ! '' Oh , she has 'most everything now . 
Of course her outfit is very simple , anyway . 
Marie hasn't much money , you know , and she simply won't let me do half what I want to . 
That name will fetch her every time , and I've learned to use it beautifully . 
I think if I told her Cyril approved of short hair and near sightedness she'd I cut off her golden locks and don spectacles on the spot . 
'' Aunt Hannah laughed softly . 
Well , of course , any girl cares something for the man she loves . 
Bertram is is painting her portrait , you know . 
'' Oh , is that the one ? '' murmured Aunt Hannah . 
Hm m well , she has a beautiful face . 
'' Yes , she has . 
'' Billy spoke very cheerfully . 
She even hummed a little tune as she carefully selected a needle from the cushion in her basket . 
There's a peculiar something in her face , '' mused Aunt Hannah , aloud . 
The little tune stopped abruptly , ending in a nervous laugh . 
Dear me ! I wonder how it feels to have a peculiar something in your face . 
Bertram , too , says she has it . 
He's trying to catch it , he says . 
I wonder now if he does catch it , does she lose it ? '' Flippant as were the words , the voice that uttered them shook a little . 
Aunt Hannah smiled indulgently Aunt Hannah had heard only the flippancy , not the shake . 
I don't know , my dear . 
You might ask him this afternoon . 
'' Billy made a sudden movement . 
The china egg in her lap rolled to the floor . 
Oh , but I don't see him this afternoon , '' she said lightly , as she stooped to pick up the egg . 
Why , I'm sure he told me '' Aunt Hannah's sentence ended in a questioning pause . 
Yes , I know , '' nodded Billy , brightly but he's told me something since . 
He telephoned me this morning . 
Miss Winthrop wanted the sitting changed from to morrow to this afternoon . 
He said he knew I'd understand . 
'' Why , yes but '' Aunt Hannah did not finish her sentence . 
The whir of an electric bell had sounded through the house . 
A few moments later Rosa appeared in the open doorway . 
It , 's Mr. Arkwright , Miss . 
He said as how he had brought the music , '' she announced . 
Tell him I'll be down at once , '' directed the mistress of Hillside . 
As the maid disappeared , Billy put aside her work and sprang lightly to her feet . 
Now wasn't that nice of him ? We were talking last night about some duets he had , and he said he'd bring them over . 
I didn't know he'd come so soon , though . 
'' Billy had almost reached the bottom of the stairway , when a low , familiar strain of music drifted out from the living room . 
Billy caught her breath , and held her foot suspended . 
The next moment the familiar strain of music had become a lullaby one of Billy's own and sung now by a melting tenor voice that lingered caressingly and understandingly on every tender cadence . 
Motionless and almost breathless , Billy waited until the last low lul la by'' vibrated into silence then with shining eyes and outstretched hands she entered the living room . 
Oh , that was beautiful , '' she breathed . 
Arkwright was on his feet instantly . 
His eyes , too , were alight . 
I could not resist singing it just once here , '' he said a little unsteadily , as their hands met . 
But to hear my little song sung like that ! I couldn't believe it was mine , '' choked Billy , still plainly very much moved . 
You sang it as I've never heard it sung before . 
'' Arkwright shook his head slowly . 
The inspiration of the room that is all , '' , he said . 
It is a beautiful song . 
All of your songs are beautiful . 
You know more of them , then ? '' I think I know them all unless you have some new ones out . 
Have you some new ones , lately ? '' Billy shook her head . 
No I haven't written anything since last spring . 
'' But you're going to ? '' She drew a long sigh . 
Yes , oh , yes . 
I know that now '' With a swift biting of her lower lip Billy caught herself up in time . 
Oh , yes , I think I shall write more one of these days , '' she finished lightly . 
But come , this isn't singing duets ! I want to see the music you brought . 
'' They sang then , one after another of the duets . 
To Billy , the music was new and interesting . 
to hear her own voice blending with another's so perfectly to feel herself a part of such exquisite harmony . 
Oh , oh ! '' she breathed ecstatically , after the last note of a particularly beautiful phrase . 
I never knew before how lovely it was to sing duets . 
'' Nor I , '' replied Arkwright in a voice that was not quite steady . 
Arkwright's eyes were on the enraptured face of the girl so near him . 
It was well , perhaps , that Billy did not happen to turn and catch their expression . 
Still , it might have been better if she had turned , after all . 
But Billy's eyes were on the music before her . 
Her fingers were busy with the fluttering pages , searching for another duet . 
Didn't you ? '' she murmured abstractedly . 
I supposed you'd sung them before but you see I never did until the other night . 
There , let's try this one ! '' This one'' was followed by another and another . 
Then Billy drew a long breath . 
There ! that must positively be the last , '' she declared reluctantly . 
I'm so hoarse now I can scarcely croak . 
You see , I don't pretend to sing , really . 
'' Don't you ? You sing far better than some who do , anyhow , ''retorted the man , warmly . 
Thank you , '' smiled Billy that was nice of you to say so for my sake and the others aren't here to care . 
But tell me of yourself . 
I haven't had a chance to ask you yet and I think you said Mary Jane was going to study for Grand Opera . 
'' Arkwright laughed and shrugged his shoulders . 
She is but , as I told Calderwell , she's quite likely to bring up in vaudeville . 
'' Calderwell ! Do you mean Hugh Calderwell ? '' Billy's cheeks showed a deeper color . 
The man gave an embarrassed little laugh . 
He had not meant to let that name slip out just yet . 
'' He hesitated , then plunged on recklessly . 
We tramped half over Europe together last summer . 
'' Did you ? '' Billy left her seat at the piano for one nearer the fire . 
But this isn't telling me about your own plans , '' she hurried on a little precipitately . 
You've studied before , of course . 
'' Oh , yes I've studied singing several years , and I've had a year or two of church work , besides a little concert practice of a mild sort . 
'' Have you begun here , yet ? '' Y yes , I've had my voice tried . 
'' Billy sat erect with eager interest . 
They liked it , of course ? '' Arkwright laughed . 
'' No , but I am , '' declared Billy , with conviction . 
They couldn't help liking it . 
Just how well they had liked it'' he did not intend to say . 
Their remarks had been quite too flattering to repeat even to this very plainly interested young woman delightful and heart warming as was this same show of interest , to himself . 
Thank you , '' was all he said . 
Billy gave an excited little bounce in her chair . 
And you'll begin to learn r o les right away ? '' I already have , some after a fashion before I came here . 
'' Really ? How splendid ! Why , then you'll be acting them next right on the Boston Opera House stage , and we'll all go to hear you . 
How perfectly lovely ! I can hardly wait . 
'' Arkwright laughed but his eyes glowed with pleasure . 
Aren't you hurrying things a little ? '' he ventured . 
But they do let the students appear , '' argued Billy . 
I knew a girl last year who went on in Aida , and she was a pupil at the School . 
She sang first in a Sunday concert , then they put her in the bill for a Saturday night . 
She did splendidly so well that they gave her a chance later at a subscription performance . 
I don't worry any , '' nodded Billy , only please don't arrive' too soon not before the wedding , you know , '' she added jokingly . 
We shall be too busy to give you proper attention until after that . 
'' A peculiar look crossed Arkwright's face . 
The wedding ? '' he asked , a little faintly . 
Didn't you know ? My friend , Miss Hawthorn , is to marry Mr. Cyril Henshaw next month . 
'' The man opposite relaxed visibly . 
'' Arkwright paused , then went on almost defiantly . 
You see , Calderwell was telling me only last September how very unmarriageable all the Henshaw brothers were . 
So I am surprised naturally , '' finished Arkwright , as he rose to take his leave . 
A swift crimson stained Billy's face . 
But Calderwell made it so emphatic , you see , about all the brothers . 
But again was she unable to finish her sentence , and again was she forced to listen to a very different completion from the smiling lips of the man at her side . 
Is an artist , of course , '' said Arkwright . 
That's what Calderwell declared that it would always be the tilt of a chin or the curve of a cheek that the artist loved to paint . 
'' Billy drew back suddenly . 
CHAPTER IX A RUG , A PICTURE , AND A GIRL AFRAID Thanksgiving came . 
Once again the Henshaw brothers invited Billy and Aunt Hannah to spend the day with them . 
This time , however , there was to be an additional guest present in the person of Marie Hawthorn . 
In the drawing room and in Bertram's den and studio , great clusters of pink roses perfumed the air , and brightened the sombre richness of the old time furnishings . 
winked and blinked sleepy yellow eyes . 
In Bertram's studio the latest Face of a Girl'' had made way for a group of canvases and plaques , every one of which showed Billy Neilson in one pose or another . 
In Cyril's rooms usually so austerely bare a handsome Oriental rug and several curtain draped chairs hinted at purchases made at the instigation of a taste other than his own . 
When the doorbell rang Pete admitted the ladies with a promptness that was suggestive of surreptitious watching at some window . 
On Pete's face the dignity of his high office and the delight of the moment were fighting for mastery . 
The dignity held firmly through Mrs. Stetson's friendly greeting but it fled in defeat when Billy Neilson stepped over the threshold with a cheery Good morning , Pete . 
'' Laws ! But it's good to be seein' you here again , '' stammered the man , delight now in sole possession . 
She'll be coming to stay , one of these days , Pete , '' smiled the eldest Henshaw , hurrying forward . 
I wish she had now , '' whispered Bertram , who , in spite of William's quick stride , had reached Billy's side first . 
From the stairway came the patter of a man's slippered feet . 
The rug has come , and the curtains , too , '' called a householder'' sort of voice that few would have recognized as belonging to Cyril Henshaw . 
You must all come up stairs and see them after dinner . 
You know I've never been where you live before , '' explained Marie Hawthorn in a low , vibrant tone , when Cyril bent over her to take the furs from her shoulders . 
In Bertram's den a little later , as hosts and guests advanced toward the fire , the sleek gray cat rose , stretched lazily , and turned her head with majestic condescension . 
Well , Spunkie , come here , '' commanded Billy , snapping her fingers at the slow moving creature on the hearthrug . 
Spunkie , when I am your mistress , you'll have to change either your name or your nature . 
As if I were going to have such a bunch of independent moderation as you masquerading as an understudy to my frisky little Spunk ! '' Everybody laughed . 
William regarded his namesake with fond eyes as he said Spunkie doesn't seem to be worrying . 
'' The cat had jumped into Billy's lap with a matter of course air that was unmistakable and to Bertram , adorable . 
Bertram's eyes , as they rested on Billy , were even fonder than were his brother's . 
I don't think any one is worrying , '' he said with quiet emphasis . 
I should think they might be , '' she answered . 
Only think how dreadfully upsetting I was in the first place ! '' William's beaming face grew a little stern . 
Nobody knew it but Kate and she didn't know it she only imagined it , '' he said tersely . 
I'm not so sure , '' she demurred . 
As I look back at it now , I think I can discern a few evidences myself that I was upsetting . 
I was a bother to Bertram in his painting , I am sure . 
'' You were an inspiration , '' corrected Bertram . 
Think of the posing you did for me . 
'' A swift something like a shadow crossed Billy's face but before her lover could question its meaning , it was gone . 
And I know I was a torment to Cyril . 
'' Billy had turned to the musician now . 
Well , I admit you were a little upsetting , at times , '' retorted that individual , with something of his old imperturbable rudeness . 
Nonsense ! '' cut in William , sharply . 
You were never anything but a comfort in the house , Billy , my dear and you never will be . 
'' Thank you , '' murmured Billy , demurely . 
I'll remember that when Pete and I disagree about the table decorations , and Dong Ling doesn't like the way I want my soup seasoned . 
'' An anxious frown showed on Bertram's face . 
Billy , '' he said in a low voice , as the others laughed at her sally , you needn't have Pete nor Dong Ling here if you don't want them . 
'' Don't want them ! '' echoed Billy , indignantly . 
She looked up to find Pete in the doorway . 
Dinner is served , sir , '' announced the old butler , his eyes on his master's face . 
William rose with alacrity , and gave his arm to Aunt Hannah . 
Well , I'm sure we're ready for dinner , '' he declared . 
It was a good dinner , and it was well served . 
It could scarcely have been otherwise with Dong Ling in the kitchen and Pete in the dining room doing their utmost to please . 
And now , '' said Cyril , when dinner was over , suppose you come up and see the rug . 
'' In compliance with this suggestion , the six trailed up the long flights of stairs then , Billy carrying an extra shawl for Aunt Hannah Cyril's rooms were always cool . 
That's why I brought it . 
Well , I'm not sure I could if I were always to eat a Thanksgiving dinner just before , '' laughed Cyril . 
Maybe I ought to have waited and let you rest an hour or two . 
'' But 'twould have been too dark , then , to see the rug , '' objected Marie . 
It's a genuine Persian a Kirman , you know and I'm so proud of it , '' she added , turning to the others . 
I wanted you to see the colors by daylight . 
Cyril likes it better , anyhow , in the daytime . 
'' Fancy Cyril liking any sort of a rug at any time , '' chuckled Bertram , his eyes on the rich , softly blended colors of the rug before him . 
'' A startled dismay came into Marie's blue eyes . 
Why , I thought he wanted rugs , '' she faltered . 
I'm sure he said '' Of course I want rugs , '' interrupted Cyril , irritably . 
I want them everywhere except in my own especial den . 
I hope , Miss Marie , that you wear rubber heels on your shoes , '' he observed solicitously . 
Even Cyril laughed at this , though all he said was Come , come , I got you up here to look at the rug . 
'' Bertram , however , was not to be silenced . 
And another thing , Miss Marie , '' he resumed , with the air of a true and tried adviser . 
Just let me give you a pointer . 
I've lived with your future husband a good many years , and I know what I'm talking about . 
'' Bertram , be still , '' growled Cyril . 
Bertram refused to be still . 
Whenever you want to know anything about Cyril , listen to his playing . 
For instance if , after dinner , you hear a dreamy waltz or a sleepy nocturne , you may know that all is well . 
'' Bertram , will you be still ? '' cut in Cyril , testily , again . 
What happened next was a surprise to every one . 
Bertram , very much as if he were a naughty little boy , was jerked by a wrathful brother's hand off the piano stool . 
Billy , perhaps , of them all , best understood . 
Billy knew that all this and more were finding voice at Cyril's finger tips . 
The music was softer now . 
In a breathless hush the melody quivered into silence . 
If you've seen all you want of the rug we'll go down stairs , '' he said nonchalantly . 
But we haven't ! '' chorussed several indignant voices . 
And for the next few minutes not even the owner of the beautiful Kirman could find any fault with the quantity or the quality of the attention bestowed on his new possession . 
On the way down stairs they stopped at William's rooms . 
I want you to see a couple of Batterseas I got last week , '' cried the collector eagerly , as he led the way to the black velvet square . 
Oh , how pretty ! '' exclaimed Marie , over Billy's shoulder . 
But what are they ? '' The collector turned , his face alight . 
I've got lots of them . 
Would you like to see them really ? They're right here . 
Oh , how pretty , '' cried Marie again but how how queer ! Tell me about them , please . 
'' William drew a long breath . 
William loved to talk when he had a curio and a listener . 
Our great grandmothers used them , you know , to support their mirrors , or to fasten back their curtains , '' he explained ardently . 
Now here's another Battersea enamel , but it isn't so good as my new ones that face is almost a caricature . 
'' But what a beautiful ship on that round one ! '' exclaimed Marie . 
And what's this one ? glass ? '' Yes but that's not so rare as the others . 
Still , it's pretty enough . 
Did you notice this one , with the bright red and blue and green on the white background ? regular Chinese mode of decoration , that is . 
'' Er any time , William , '' began Bertram , mischievously but William did not seem to hear . 
Now in this corner , '' he went on , warming to his subject , are the enamelled porcelains . 
They were probably made at the Worcester works England , you know and I think many of them are quite as pretty as the Batterseas . 
Now engravings for that kind of printing were usually in stipple work dots , you know so the prints on these knobs can easily be distinguished from those of the transfer printing . 
See ? Now , this one is '' Er , of course , William , any time '' interposed Bertram again , his eyes twinkling . 
William stopped with a laugh . 
'Tis time I talked of something else , Bertram , '' he conceded . 
But 'twas lovely , and I was interested , really , '' claimed Marie . 
Besides , there are such a lot of things here that I'd like to see , '' she finished , turning slowly about . 
Well , here is something you will enjoy , '' declared Bertram , with an airy flourish . 
Do you see those teapots ? Well , we can have tea every day in the year , and not use one of them but five times . 
There are exactly seventy three , '' he concluded , as he laughingly led the way from the room . 
How about leap year ? '' quizzed Billy . 
Ho ! Trust Will to find another Old Blue' or a perfect treasure of a black basalt' by that time , '' shrugged Bertram . 
Below William's rooms was the floor once Bertram's , but afterwards given over to the use of Billy and Aunt Hannah . 
The rooms were open to day , and were bright with sunshine and roses but they were very plainly unoccupied . 
And you don't use them yet ? '' remonstrated Billy , as she paused at an open door . 
No. These are Mrs. Bertram Henshaw's rooms , '' said the youngest Henshaw brother in a voice that made Billy hurry away with a dimpling blush . 
They were Billy's and they can never seem any one's but Billy's , now , '' declared William to Marie , as they went down the stairs . 
And now for the den and some good stories before the fire , '' proposed Bertram , as the six reached the first floor again . 
But we haven't seen your pictures , yet , '' objected Billy . 
Bertram made a deprecatory gesture . 
There's nothing much '' he began but he stopped at once , with an odd laugh . 
Well , I sha'n't say that , '' he finished , flinging open the door of his studio , and pressing a button that flooded the room with light . 
Much , indeed ! '' exclaimed William . 
Oh , how lovely ! '' breathed Marie . 
But how when did you do them ? '' queried Marie . 
Some of them from memory . 
More of them from life . 
A lot of them were just sketches that I did when she was here in the house four or five years ago , '' answered Bertram like this , for instance . 
'' And he pulled into a better light a picture of a laughing , dark eyed girl holding against her cheek a small gray kitten , with alert , bright eyes . 
The original and only Spunk , '' he announced . 
What a dear little cat ! '' cried Marie . 
You should have seen it in the flesh , '' remarked Cyril , dryly . 
No paint nor painter could imprison that untamed bit of Satanic mischief on any canvas that ever grew ! '' Everybody laughed everybody but Billy . 
Billy , indeed , of them all , had been strangely silent ever since they entered the studio . 
She stood now a little apart . 
Her eyes were wide , and a bit frightened . 
Her fingers were twisting the corners of her handkerchief nervously . 
She was looking to the right and to the left , and everywhere she saw herself . 
Sometimes it was her full face , sometimes her profile sometimes there were only her eyes peeping from above a fan , or peering from out brown shadows of nothingness . 
Once it was merely the back of her head showing the mass of waving hair with its high lights of burnished bronze . 
Again it was still the back of her head with below it the bare , slender neck and the scarf draped shoulders . 
Sometimes it was a merry Billy with dancing eyes sometimes a demure Billy with long lashes caressing a flushed cheek . 
Sometimes it was a wistful Billy with eyes that looked straight into yours with peculiar appeal . 
But always it was Billy . 
There , I think the tilt of this chin is perfect . 
'' It was Bertram speaking . 
Billy gave a sudden cry . 
No , no , Bertram , you you didn't mean the the tilt of the chin , '' she faltered wildly . 
The man turned in amazement . 
Why Billy ! '' he stammered . 
Billy , what is it ? '' The girl fell back at once . 
She tried to laugh lightly . 
She had seen the dismayed questioning in her lover's eyes , and in the eyes of William and the others . 
N nothing , '' she gesticulated hurriedly . 
It was nothing at all , truly . 
'' But , Billy , it was something . 
'' Bertram's eyes were still troubled . 
Was it the picture ? I thought you liked this picture . 
'' Billy laughed again this time more naturally . 
Bertram , I'm ashamed of you expecting me to say I like' any of this , '' she scolded , with a wave of her hands toward the omnipresent Billy . 
Aunt Hannah and Marie gave an indulgent smile . 
Bertram only still wore a puzzled expression as he laid aside the canvas in his hands . 
Billy examined intently a sketch she had found with its back to the wall . 
It was not a pretty sketch it was not even a finished one , and Billy did not in the least care what it was . 
But her lips cried interestedly Oh , Bertram , what is this ? '' There was no answer . 
Bertram was still engaged , apparently , in putting away some sketches . 
Over by the doorway leading to the den Marie and Aunt Hannah , followed by William and Cyril , were just disappearing behind a huge easel . 
In another minute the merry chatter of their voices came from the room beyond . 
Bertram hurried then straight across the studio to the girl still bending over the sketch in the corner . 
Bertram ! '' gasped Billy , as a kiss brushed her cheek . 
Bertram , if you say another word about about the tilt of that chin , I shall scream ! '' she panted . 
Why , Billy ! '' With a nervous little movement Billy turned and began to reverse the canvases nearest her . 
Come , sir , '' she commanded gayly . 
Billy has been on exhibition quite long enough . 
It is high time she was turned face to the wall to meditate , and grow more modest . 
'' Bertram did not answer . 
Neither did he make a move to assist her . 
His ardent gray eyes were following her slim , graceful figure admiringly . 
Billy , it doesn't seem true , yet , that you're really mine , '' he said at last , in a low voice shaken with emotion . 
A peculiar radiance shone in her eyes and glorified her face . 
As she stood , she was close to a picture on an easel and full in the soft glow of the shaded lights above it . 
Then you do want me , '' she began , just me ! not to '' she stopped short . 
The man opposite had taken an eager step toward her . 
On his face was the look she knew so well , the look she had come almost to dread the painting look . 
'' Billy , stand just as you are , '' he was saying . 
Jove ! But that effect is perfect with those dark shadows beyond , and just your hair and face and throat showing . 
I declare , I've half a mind to sketch '' But Billy , with a little cry , was gone . 
CHAPTER X A JOB FOR PETE AND FOR BERTRAM The early days in December were busy ones , certainly , in the little house on Corey Hill . 
Marie was to be married the twelfth . 
It was to be a home wedding , and a very simple one according to Billy , and according to what Marie had said it was to be . 
Billy still serenely spoke of it as a simple affair , '' but Marie was beginning to be fearful . 
But Billy , it was to be a simple wedding , '' she cried . 
'' But what is this I hear about a breakfast ? '' Billy's chin assumed its most stubborn squareness . 
I don't know , I'm sure , what you did hear , '' she retorted calmly . 
Billy ! '' Billy laughed . 
The chin was just as stubborn , but the smiling lips above it graced it with an air of charming concession . 
There , there , dear , '' coaxed the mistress of Hillside , don't fret . 
Besides , I'm sure I should think you , of all people , would want your guests fed ! '' But this is so elaborate , from what I hear . 
'' Nonsense ! Not a bit of it . 
'' Rosa says there'll be salads and cakes and ices and I don't know what all . 
Well , of course , Marie , if you'd rather have oatmeal and doughnuts , '' she began with kind solicitude but she got no farther . 
Billy ! '' besought the bride elect . 
Won't you be serious ? And there's the cake in wedding boxes , too . 
'' I know , but boxes are so much easier and cleaner than just fingers , '' apologized an anxiously serious voice . 
Marie answered with an indignant , grieved glance and hurried on . 
And the flowers roses , dozens of them , in December ! Billy , I can't let you do all this for me . 
'' Nonsense , dear ! '' laughed Billy . 
Why , I love to do it . 
The frown still lay between her delicate brows . 
And for my trousseau there were so many things that you simply would buy ! '' I didn't get one of the egg beaters , '' Billy reminded her anxiously . 
Marie smiled now , but she shook her head , too . 
Billy , I cannot have you do all this for me . 
'' Why not ? '' At the unexpectedly direct question , Marie fell back a little . 
Why , because I I can't , '' she stammered . 
I can't get them for myself , and and '' Don't you love me ? '' A pink flush stole to Marie's face . 
Indeed I do , dearly . 
'' Don't I love you ? '' The flush deepened . 
And just now I want pink roses and ice cream and lace flounces for you . 
Marie sprang to her feet and cuddled the bowed head in a loving embrace . 
But I do want them , dear I want them all every single one , '' she urged . 
'' I do , dear indeed I do . 
I love pretty weddings , and I I always hoped that I could have one if I ever married . 
So you must know , dear , how I really do want all those things , '' declared Marie , fervently . 
And now I must go . 
I promised to meet Cyril at Park Street at three o'clock . 
Her cheeks burned with shame then . 
But almost at once she smiled . 
Now wasn't that just like Billy ? '' she was saying to herself , with a tender glow in her eyes . 
It was early in December that Pete came one day with a package for Marie from Cyril . 
Marie was not at home , and Billy herself went downstairs to take the package from the old man's hands . 
'' I'm afraid I'll have to take it , Pete , unless you want to carry it back with you , '' she smiled . 
I'll see that Miss Hawthorn has it the very first moment she comes in . 
'' Thank you , Miss . 
It does my old eyes good to see your bright face . 
'' He hesitated , then turned slowly . 
Good day , Miss Billy . 
'' Billy laid the package on the table . 
Her eyes were thoughtful as she looked after the old man , who was now almost to the door . 
Something in his bowed form appealed to her strangely . 
She took a quick step toward him . 
You'll miss Mr. Cyril , Pete , '' she said pleasantly . 
The old man stopped at once and turned . 
He lifted his head a little proudly . 
I I was there when he was born . 
Mr. Cyril's a fine man . 
For a moment Billy thought she had succeeded . 
The old servant drew himself stiffly erect . 
In his eyes shone the loyal pride of more than fifty years' honest service . 
Almost at once , however , the pride died away , and the wistfulness returned . 
Thank ye , Miss but I don't lay no claim to that , of course , '' he said . 
Mr. Cyril's a fine man , and we shall miss him but I cal'late changes must come to all of us . 
'' Billy's brown eyes grew a little misty . 
I suppose they must , '' she admitted . 
I understand , of course , that when you get there you'll be wantin' younger blood to serve ye . 
My feet ain't so spry as they once was , and my old hands blunder sometimes , in spite of what my head bids 'em do . 
So I wanted to tell ye that of course I shouldn't expect to stay . 
'' As he said the words , Pete stood with head and shoulders erect , his eyes looking straight forward but not at Billy . 
Don't you want to stay ? '' The girlish voice was a little reproachful . 
Not if I'm not wanted , '' came the husky reply . 
With an impulsive movement Billy came straight to the old man's side and held out her hand . 
With a choking cry he took the slim little hand in both his rough and twisted ones much as if he were possessing himself of a treasured bit of eggshell china . 
Now run home , and don't ever let me hear another syllable about your leaving ! '' They were not the words Billy had intended to say . 
Not another syllable ! '' she repeated sternly . 
Miss Billy ! '' choked Pete again . 
Then he turned and fled with anything but his usual dignity . 
When Billy came to him in the living room , her slender self was almost hidden behind the swirls of damask linen in her arms . 
Do you expect me to hug all that ? '' he demanded . 
Billy flashed him a mischievous glance . 
Of course not ! You don't have to hug anything , you know . 
'' For answer he impetuously swept the offending linen into the nearest chair and drew the girl into his arms . 
Oh ! And see how you've crushed poor Marie's table cloth ! '' she cried , with reproachful eyes . 
I'm not sure but I'd like to crush Marie , '' he alleged . 
Bertram ! '' I can't help it . 
'' He loosened his clasp and held the girl off at arm's length , regarding her with stormy eyes . 
It's Marie , Marie , Marie always . 
If I telephone in the morning , you've gone shopping with Marie . 
If I want you in the afternoon for something , you're at the dressmaker's with Marie . 
If I call in the evening '' I'm here , '' interrupted Billy , with decision . 
They all belong to Marie , and they fill your arms and your thoughts full , until there isn't an inch of room for me . 
Billy , when is this thing going to end ? '' Billy laughed softly . 
The twelfth that is , there'll be a pause , then . 
'' Well , I'm thankful if eh ? '' broke off the man , with a sudden change of manner . 
What do you mean by a pause' ? '' Billy cast down her eyes demurely . 
Well , of course this ends the twelfth with Marie's wedding but I've sort of regarded it as an understudy for one that's coming next October , you see . 
'' Billy , you darling ! '' breathed a supremely happy voice in a shell like ear Billy was not at arm's length now . 
Billy smiled , but she drew away with gentle firmness . 
And now I must go back to my sewing , '' she said . 
Bertram's arms did not loosen . 
His eyes had grown mutinous again . 
That is , '' she amended , I must be practising my part of the understudy , you know . 
'' You darling ! '' breathed Bertram again this time , however , he let her go . 
But , honestly , is it all necessary ? '' he sighed despairingly , as she seated herself and gathered the table cloth into her lap . 
Is it so bad as that ? '' No , of course not quite . 
But never have I seen a bride so utterly oblivious to clothes as Marie was till one day in despair I told her that Cyril never could bear a dowdy woman . 
'' As if Cyril , in the old days , ever could bear any sort of woman ! '' scoffed Bertram , merrily . 
I know but I didn't mention that part , '' smiled Billy . 
I just singled out the dowdy one . 
'' Did it work ? '' Billy made a gesture of despair . 
Did it work ! It worked too well . 
Marie gave me one horrified look , then at once and immediately she became possessed with the idea that she was a dowdy woman . 
'' You poor dear , '' laughed Bertram . 
No wonder you don't have time to give to me ! '' A peculiar expression crossed Billy's face . 
Oh , but I'm not the only one who , at times , is otherwise engaged , sir , '' she reminded him . 
And you said '' That I didn't wish to interfere with your work which was quite true , '' interrupted Billy in her turn , smoothly . 
She's going to Washington next week , too , to be gone nearly a fortnight , '' finished Bertram , gloomily . 
Aren't you putting more work than usual into this one and more sittings ? '' Well , yes , '' laughed Bertram , a little shortly . 
You see , she's changed the pose twice already . 
'' Changed it ! '' Yes . 
Fancied she wanted it different . 
'' But can't you don't you have something to say about it ? '' Oh , yes , of course and she claims she'll yield to my judgment , anyhow . 
But what's the use ? She's been a spoiled darling all her life , and in the habit of having her own way about everything . 
Naturally , under those circumstances , I can't expect to get a satisfactory portrait , if she's out of tune with the pose . 
Besides , I will own , so far her suggestions have made for improvement probably because she's been happy in making them , so her expression has been good . 
'' Billy wet her lips . 
I saw her the other night , '' she said lightly . 
She is certainly very beautiful . 
'' Bertram got to his feet and began to walk up and down the little room . 
On his face the painting look'' was king . 
It's going to mean a lot to me this picture , Billy . 
In the first place I'm just at the point in my career where a big success would mean a lot and where a big failure would mean more . 
And this portrait is bound to be one or the other from the very nature of the thing . 
'' I is it ? '' Billy's voice was a little faint . 
First , because of who the sitter is , and secondly because of what she is . 
She is , of course , the most famous subject I've had , and half the artistic world knows by this time that Marguerite Winthrop is being done by Henshaw . 
You can see what it'll be if I fail . 
'' But you won't fail , Bertram ! '' The artist lifted his chin and threw back his shoulders . 
No , of course not but '' He hesitated , frowned , and dropped himself into a chair . 
His eyes studied the fire moodily . 
a something that isn't easily caught by the brush . 
Anderson and Fullam big fellows , both of them didn't catch it . 
At least , I've understood that neither her family nor her friends are satisfied with their portraits . 
Billy tossed her work aside and sprang to her feet . 
Her eyes , too , were alight , now . 
But you aren't going to fail , dear , '' she cried , holding out both her hands . 
You're going to succeed ! '' Bertram caught the hands and kissed first one then the other of their soft little palms . 
Of course I am , '' he agreed passionately , leading her to the sofa , and seating himself at her side . 
Yes , but you must really feel it , '' she urged feel the sure in yourself . 
You have to ! to doing things . 
That's what I told Mary Jane yesterday , when he was running on about what he wanted to do in his singing , you know . 
'' Bertram stiffened a little . 
A quick frown came to his face . 
'' Billy broke into a rippling laugh . 
I wish I could , dear , '' she sighed ingenuously . 
Honestly , it bothers me because I can't think of him as anything but Mary Jane . 
It seems so silly ! '' It certainly does when one remembers his beard . 
'' Oh , he's shaved that off now . 
He looks rather better , too . 
'' Bertram turned a little sharply . 
Do you see the fellow often ? '' Billy laughed merrily . 
No. He's about as disgruntled as you are over the way the wedding monopolizes everything . 
'' Indeed ! Well , that's a pity , I'm sure , '' rejoined Bertram , icily . 
Billy turned in slight surprise . 
Why , Bertram , don't you like Mary Jane ? '' Billy , for heaven's sake ! Hasn't he got any name but that ? '' Billy clapped her hands together suddenly . 
There , that makes me think . 
He told Aunt Hannah and me to guess what his name was , and we never hit it once . 
What do you think it is ? The initials are M. J. '' I couldn't say , I'm sure . 
What is it ? '' Oh , he didn't tell us . 
You see he left us to guess it . 
'' Did he ? '' Yes , '' mused Billy , abstractedly , her eyes on the dancing fire . 
The next minute she stirred and settled herself more comfortably in the curve of her lover's arm . 
But there ! who cares what his name is ? I'm sure I don't . 
'' Nor I , '' echoed Bertram in a voice that he tried to make not too fervent . 
He had not forgotten Billy's surprised Why , Bertram , don't you like Mary Jane ? '' and he did not like to call forth a repetition of it . 
Abruptly , therefore , he changed the subject . 
By the way , what did you do to Pete to day ? '' he asked laughingly . 
He came home in a seventh heaven of happiness babbling of what an angel straight from the sky Miss Billy was . 
Naturally I agreed with him on that point . 
But what did you do to him ? '' Billy smiled . 
Nothing only engaged him for our butler for life . 
'' Oh , I see . 
That was dear of you , Billy . 
'' As if I'd do anything else ! And now for Dong Ling , I suppose , some day . 
Well , maybe I can help you there , '' he hinted . 
'' Dear me , '' smiled Billy , what a happy state of affairs for him . 
Her husband could not come , she had written , but she would bring with her , little Kate , the youngest child . 
The boys , Paul and Egbert , would stay with their father . 
Billy received the news of little Kate's coming with outspoken delight . 
The very thing ! '' she cried . 
We'll have her for a flower girl . 
She was a dear little creature , as I remember her . 
'' Aunt Hannah gave a sudden low laugh . 
Yes , I remember , '' she observed . 
Kate told me , after you spent the first day with her , that you graciously informed her that little Kate was almost as nice as Spunk . 
Kate did not fully appreciate the compliment , I fear . 
'' Billy made a wry face . 
'' I think I should have liked to know Spunk , '' smiled Marie from the other side of the sewing table . 
He was a dear , '' declared Billy . 
I had another 'most as good when I first came to Hillside , but he got lost . 
You see I shall be lonesome after you're gone , Marie , and I'll have to have something , '' she finished mischievously . 
Oh , I don't mind the inference as long as I know your admiration of cats , '' laughed Marie . 
Let me see Kate writes she is coming the tenth , '' murmured Aunt Hannah , going back to the letter in her hand . 
Good ! '' nodded Billy . 
That will give time to put little Kate through her paces as flower girl . 
Cyril ! '' chorussed the three ladies in horror , adoration , and amusement according to whether the voice belonged to Aunt Hannah , Marie , or Billy . 
Cyril shrugged his shoulders and smiled . 
I beg your pardon , '' he apologized but Rosa said you were in here sewing , and I told her not to bother . 
Just as I got to the door I chanced to hear Billy's speech , and I couldn't resist making the amendment . 
Maybe you've forgotten Kate's love of managing but I haven't , '' he finished , as he sauntered over to the chair nearest Marie . 
No , I haven't forgotten , '' observed Billy , meaningly . 
Nor I nor anybody else , '' declared a severe voice both the words and the severity being most extraordinary as coming from the usually gentle Aunt Hannah . 
Oh , well , never mind , '' spoke up Billy , quickly . 
Everything's all right now , so let's forget it . 
She always meant it for kindness , I'm sure . 
'' Even when she told you in the first place what a er torment you were to us ? '' quizzed Cyril . 
Yes , '' flashed Billy . 
She was being kind to you , then . 
'' Humph ! '' vouchsafed Cyril . 
For a moment no one spoke . 
Cyril's eyes were on Marie , who was nervously trying to smooth back a few fluffy wisps of hair that had escaped from restraining combs and pins . 
What's the matter with the hair , little girl ? '' asked Cyril in a voice that was caressingly irritable . 
You've been fussing with that long suffering curl for the last five minutes ! '' Marie's delicate face flushed painfully . 
It's got loose my hair , '' she stammered , and it looks so dowdy that way ! '' Billy dropped her thread suddenly . 
She sprang for it at once , before Cyril could make a move to get it . 
She had to dive far under a chair to capture it which may explain why her face was so very red when she finally reached her seat again . 
Billy's fingers , in particular , were flying very fast . 
I told John to have Peggy at the door at eleven , '' she said , after a time but I think I can finish running in this ribbon before then . 
I haven't much to do to get ready to go . 
'' I hope Kate's train won't be late , '' worried Aunt Hannah . 
I hope not , '' replied Billy but I told Rosa to delay luncheon , anyway , till we get here . 
I '' She stopped abruptly and turned a listening ear toward the door of Aunt Hannah's room , which was open . 
Mercy ! that can't be eleven now , '' she cried . 
But it must be it was ten before I came up stairs . 
'' She got to her feet hurriedly . 
Aunt Hannah put out a restraining hand . 
No , no , dear , that's half past ten . 
'' But it struck eleven . 
'' Yes , I know . 
It does at half past ten . 
'' Why , the little wretch , '' laughed Billy , dropping back into her chair and picking up her work again . 
The idea of its telling fibs like that and frightening people half out of their lives ! I'll have it fixed right away . 
Maybe John can do it he's always so handy about such things . 
'' But I don't want it fixed , '' demurred Aunt Hannah . 
You don't want it fixed ! Maybe you like to have it strike eleven when it's half past ten ! '' Billy's voice was merrily sarcastic . 
Y yes , I do , '' stammered the lady , apologetically . 
You see , I I worked very hard to fix it so it would strike that way . 
'' Aunt Hannah ! '' Well , I did , '' retorted the lady , with unexpected spirit . 
I wanted to know what time it was in the night I'm awake such a lot . 
'' But I don't see . 
'' Billy's eyes were perplexed . 
Why must you make it tell fibs in order to to find out the truth ? '' she laughed . 
Aunt Hannah elevated her chin a little . 
Because that clock was always striking one . 
'' One ! '' Yes half past , you know and I never knew which half past it was . 
'' But it must strike half past now , just the same ! '' It does . 
'' There was the triumphant ring of the conqueror in Aunt Hannah's voice . 
But now it strikes half past on the hour , and the clock in the hall tells me then what time it is , so I don't care . 
'' For one more brief minute Billy stared , before a sudden light of understanding illumined her face . 
Then her laugh rang out gleefully . 
Oh , Aunt Hannah , Aunt Hannah , '' she gurgled . 
If Bertram wouldn't call you the limit making a clock strike eleven so you'll know it's half past ten ! '' Aunt Hannah colored a little , but she stood her ground . 
'' Of course , '' chuckled Billy . 
I'm sure I think it's a splendid idea , '' chimed in Marie , valiantly and I'm going to write it to mother's Cousin Jane right away . 
She's an invalid , and she's always lying awake nights wondering what time it is . 
She can't bear a light in the room , and it wakes her all up to turn an electric switch , or anything of that kind . 
'' Why doesn't she have one of those phosphorous things ? '' questioned Billy . 
I sent her one , and she stood it just one night . 
'' Stood it ! '' Yes . 
She declared it gave her the creeps , and that she wouldn't have the spooky thing staring at her all night like that . 
So it's got to be something she can hear , and I'm going to tell her Mrs. Stetson's plan right away . 
'' Well , I'm sure I wish you would , '' cried that lady , with prompt interest and she'll like it , I'm sure . 
And tell her if she can hear a town clock strike , it's just the same , and even better for there aren't any half hours at all to think of there . 
'' I will and I think it's lovely , '' declared Marie . 
Yes'm , 'tis a little chilly , Miss , '' said John , in answer to her greeting , as he tucked the heavy robes about her . 
Oh , well , I shall be very comfortable , I'm sure , '' smiled Billy . 
Just don't drive too rapidly , specially coming home . 
I shall have to get a limousine , I think , when my ship comes in , John . 
'' John's grizzled old face twitched . 
So evident were the words that were not spoken that Billy asked laughingly Well , John , what is it ? '' John reddened furiously . 
I was only thinkin' that if you didn't 'tend ter haulin' in so many other folks's ships , yours might get in sooner . 
'' Why , John ! Nonsense ! I I love to haul in other folks's ships , '' laughed the girl , embarrassedly . 
Yes , Miss I know you do , '' grunted John . 
No , no that is , I mean I don't do it very much , '' she stammered . 
John did not answer apparently but Billy was sure she caught a low muttered , indignant much ! '' as he snapped the door shut and took his place at the wheel . 
To herself she laughed softly . 
She thought she possessed the secret now of some of John's disapproving glances toward her humble guests of the summer before . 
Accompanying her was a little girl with big blue eyes and yellow curls . 
I am very glad to see you both , '' smiled Billy , holding out a friendly hand to Mrs. Hartwell , and stooping to kiss the round cheek of the little girl . 
Bertram did mean to come , but he telephoned this morning that he couldn't , after all . 
I'm sorry , but I'm afraid you'll have to make the best of just me , '' condoled Billy . 
They'll be out to the house this evening , of course all but Uncle William . 
He doesn't return until to morrow . 
'' Oh , doesn't he ? '' murmured the lady , reaching for her daughter's hand . 
Billy looked down with a smile . 
And this is little Kate , I suppose , '' she said , whom I haven't seen for such a long , long time . 
Let me see , you are how old now ? '' I'm eight . 
I've been eight six weeks . 
And you don't remember me , I suppose . 
'' The little girl shook her head . 
No but I know who you are , '' she added , with shy eagerness . 
You're going to be my Aunt Billy , and you're going to marry my Uncle William I mean , my Uncle Bertram . 
'' Billy's face changed color . 
Mrs. Hartwell gave a despairing gesture . 
Kate , my dear , I told you to be sure and remember that it was your Uncle Bertram now . 
You see , '' she added in a discouraged aside to Billy , she can't seem to forget the first one . 
But then , what can you expect ? '' laughed Mrs. Hartwell , a little disagreeably . 
Such abrupt changes from one brother to another are somewhat disconcerting , you know . 
'' Billy bit her lip . 
For a moment she said nothing , then , a little constrainedly , she rejoined Perhaps . 
Still let us hope we have the right one , now . 
'' Mrs. Hartwell raised her eyebrows . 
Well , my dear , I'm not so confident of that . 
My choice has been and always will be William . 
'' Billy bit her lip again . 
This time her brown eyes flashed a little . 
Is that so ? But you see , after all , you aren't making the the choice . 
'' Billy spoke lightly , gayly and she ended with a bright little laugh , as if to hide any intended impertinence . 
It was Mrs. Hartwell's turn to bite her lip and she did it . 
So it seems , '' she rejoined frigidly , after the briefest of pauses . 
'' Oh , what a pity ! Church weddings are so attractive ! '' To those who like them , '' amended Billy in spite of herself . 
To every one , I think , '' corrected Mrs. Hartwell , positively . 
She was beginning to discern that it did not do much harm nor much good to disagree with her guest . 
It's in the evening , then , of course ? '' pursued Mrs. Hartwell . 
'' Oh , how could you let them ? '' But they preferred it , Mrs. Hartwell . 
'' What if they did ? '' retorted the lady , sharply . 
Can't you do as you please in your own home ? Evening weddings are so much prettier ! We can't change now , of course , with the guests all invited . 
That is , I suppose you do have guests ! '' Mrs. Hartwell's voice was aggrievedly despairing . 
Oh , yes , '' smiled Billy , demurely . 
We have guests invited and I'm afraid we can't change the time . 
'' No , of course not but it's too bad . 
I conclude there are announcements only , as I got no cards . 
Announcements only , '' bowed Billy . 
I wish Cyril had consulted me , a little , about this affair . 
'' Billy did not answer . 
She could not trust herself to speak just then . 
Cyril's words of two days before were in her ears Yes , and it will give Big Kate time to try to make your breakfast supper , and your roses pinks or sunflowers . 
'' In a moment Mrs. Hartwell spoke again . 
Of course a noon wedding is quite pretty if you darken the rooms and have lights you're going to do that , I suppose ? '' Billy shook her head slowly . 
I'm afraid not , Mrs. Hartwell . 
That isn't the plan , now . 
'' Not darken the rooms ! '' exclaimed Mrs. Hartwell . 
Why , it won't '' She stopped suddenly , and fell back in her seat . 
The look of annoyed disappointment gave way to one of confident relief . 
But then , that can be changed , '' she finished serenely . 
Billy opened her lips , but she shut them without speaking . 
After a minute she opened them again . 
You might consult Cyril about that , '' she said in a quiet voice . 
Yes , I will , '' nodded Mrs. Hartwell , brightly . 
She was looking pleased and happy again . 
Don't you ? You can do so much with them ! '' Can you ? '' laughed Billy , irrepressibly . 
Cyril is happy , of course . 
Still , I can't imagine him in love with any woman . 
'' I think Marie can . 
I don't seem to remember her much still , I think I saw her once or twice when I was on last June . 
Music teacher , wasn't she ? '' Yes . 
She is a very sweet girl . 
'' Hm m I suppose so . 
Still , I think 'twould have been better if Cyril could have selected some one that wasn't musical say a more domestic wife . 
He's so terribly unpractical himself about household matters . 
'' Billy gave a ringing laugh and stood up . 
The car had come to a stop before her own door . 
Do you ? Just you wait till you see Marie's trousseau of egg beaters and cake tins , '' she chuckled . 
Whatever in the world do you mean , Billy ? '' she demanded fretfully , as she followed her hostess from the car . 
Luncheon in the cozy dining room at Hillside that day was not entirely a success . 
At least there were not present exactly the harmony and tranquillity that are conceded to be the best sauce for one's food . 
If it had not been for two or three diversions created by little Kate , the meal would have been , indeed , a dismal failure . 
But little Kate most of the time the personification of proper little girlhood had a disconcerting faculty of occasionally dropping a word here , or a question there , with startling effect . 
After luncheon Aunt Hannah went up stairs for rest and recuperation . 
Marie took little Kate and went for a brisk walk for the same purpose . 
This left Billy alone with her guest . 
Perhaps you would like a nap , too , Mrs. Hartwell , '' suggested Billy , as they passed into the living room . 
There was a curious note of almost hopefulness in her voice . 
Mrs. Hartwell scorned naps , and she said so very emphatically . 
She said something else , too . 
Billy , why do you always call me Mrs. Hartwell' in that stiff , formal fashion ? You used to call me Aunt Kate . 
'' But I was very young then . 
'' Billy's voice was troubled . 
Billy had been trying so hard for the last two hours to be the graciously cordial hostess to this woman Bertram's sister . 
Then why not Kate' now ? '' Billy hesitated . 
She was wondering why it seemed so hard to call Mrs. Hartwell Kate . 
'' Of course , '' resumed the lady , when you're Bertram's wife and my sister '' Why , of course , '' cried Billy , in a sudden flood of understanding . 
Curiously enough , she had never before thought of Mrs. Hartwell as her sister . 
I shall be glad to call you Kate' if you like . 
I shall like it very much , Billy , '' nodded the other cordially . 
Indeed , my dear , I'm very fond of you , and I was delighted to hear you were to be my sister . 
If only it could have stayed William instead of Bertram . 
'' But it couldn't , '' smiled Billy . 
It wasn't William that I loved . 
'' But Bertram ! it's so absurd . 
'' Absurd ! '' The smile was gone now . 
Forgive me , Billy , but I was about as much surprised to hear of Bertram's engagement as I was of Cyril's . 
'' Billy grew a little white . 
But Bertram was never an avowed woman hater , like Cyril , was he ? '' Woman hater' dear me , no ! He was a woman lover , always . 
As if his eternal Face of a Girl' didn't prove that ! Bertram has always loved women to paint . 
But as for his ever taking them seriously why , Billy , what's the matter ? '' Billy had risen suddenly . 
If you'll excuse me , please , just a few minutes , '' Billy said very quietly . 
I want to speak to Rosa in the kitchen . 
'' In the kitchen Billy spoke to Rosa she wondered afterwards what she said . 
Certainly she did not stay in the kitchen long enough to say much . 
I didn't listen ! I didn't stay ! Do you hear ? I came to you . 
She shall not say anything that will make trouble between you and me . 
I've suffered enough through her already ! And she doesn't know she didn't know before , and she doesn't now . 
I will not not not believe that you love me just to paint . 
No matter what they say all of them ! I will not ! '' Billy put the photograph back on the table then , and went down stairs to her guest . 
She smiled brightly , though her face was a little pale . 
I wondered if perhaps you wouldn't like some music , '' she said pleasantly , going straight to the piano . 
Indeed I would ! '' agreed Mrs. Hartwell . 
Billy sat down then and played played as Mrs. Hartwell had never heard her play before . 
Why , Billy , you amaze me , '' she cried , when the pianist stopped and whirled about . 
I had no idea you could play like that ! '' Billy smiled enigmatically . 
They say Happy is the bride that the sun shines on , '' she whispered softly to an English sparrow that cocked his eye at her from a neighboring tree branch . 
As if a bride wouldn't be happy , sun or no sun , '' she scoffed tenderly , as she turned to go down stairs . 
Hullo , is that you , Kate ? '' called a despairing voice . 
'' A lunatic ! '' Yes . 
Maybe you have , though . 
Is Marie rampaging around the house like a wild creature , and asking ten questions and making twenty threats to the minute ? '' Certainly not ! Don't be absurd , Bertram . 
What do you mean ? '' See here , Kate , that show comes off at twelve sharp , doesn't it ? '' Show , indeed ! '' retorted Kate , indignantly . 
The wedding is at noon sharp as the best man should know very well . 
'' All right then tell Billy , please , to see that it is sharp , or I won't answer for the consequences . 
'' What do you mean ? What is the matter ? '' Cyril . 
He's broken loose at last . 
I've been expecting it all along . 
I've simply marvelled at the meekness with which he has submitted himself to be tied up with white ribbons and topped with roses . 
'' Nonsense , Bertram ! '' Well , it amounts to that . 
Anyhow , he thinks it does , and he's wild . 
I wish you could have heard the thunderous performance on his piano with which he woke me up this morning . 
Billy says he plays everything his past , present , and future . 
All is , if he was playing his future this morning , I pity the girl who's got to live it with him . 
'' Bertram ! '' Bertram chuckled remorselessly . 
But I'll warrant he wasn't playing his future this morning . 
He was playing his present the wedding . 
You see , he's just waked up to the fact that it'll be a perfect orgy of women and other confusion , and he doesn't like it . 
'' What an absurd idea ! '' Cyril doesn't think so . 
'' Well , you remind Cyril , please , that there are other people besides himself concerned in this wedding , '' observed Kate , icily . 
I have , '' purred Bertram , and he says all right , let them have it , then . 
He's gone now to look up proxy marriages , I believe . 
'' Proxy marriages , indeed ! Come , come , Bertram , I've got something to do this morning besides to stand here listening to your nonsense . 
See that you and Cyril get here on time that's all ! '' And she hung up the receiver with an impatient jerk . 
She turned to confront the startled eyes of the bride elect . 
What is it ? Is anything wrong with Cyril ? '' faltered Marie . 
Kate laughed and raised her eyebrows slightly . 
Nothing but a little stage fright , my dear . 
'' Stage fright ! '' Yes . 
Bertram says he's trying to find some one to play his r o le , I believe , in the ceremony . 
'' Mrs. Hartwell ! '' At the look of dismayed terror that came into Marie's face , Mrs. Hartwell laughed reassuringly . 
There , there , dear child , don't look so horror stricken . 
There probably never was a man yet who wouldn't have fled from the wedding part of his marriage if he could and you know how Cyril hates fuss and feathers . 
The wonder to me is that he's stood it as long as he has . 
I thought I saw it coming , last night at the rehearsal and now I know I did . 
'' Marie still looked distressed . 
But he never said I thought '' She stopped helplessly . 
Of course he didn't , child . 
He never said anything but that he loved you , and he never thought anything but that you were going to be his . 
Men never do till the wedding day . 
But if he'd told me in time , I wouldn't have had a thing but the minister , '' faltered Marie . 
Her nostrils dilated a little . 
It wouldn't be a whim , Mrs. Hartwell , and I should be glad to give up , '' she said with decision . 
Mrs. Hartwell laughed again , her amused eyes on Marie's face . 
A little precipitately Marie turned and hurried away . 
A moment later she was laying a restraining hand on Billy , who was filling tall vases with superb long stemmed roses in the kitchen . 
By degrees , then , the whole story came out . 
Billy almost laughed but she almost cried , too . 
'' Billy's lips puckered into a half smile , but her eyes were grave . 
Only think how disappointed they'd all be if I should say Never mind stop that . 
Marie's just going to have a minister . 
Besides , there's your guests . 
'' Oh , of course , I knew I couldn't really , '' sighed Marie , as she turned to go up stairs , all the light and joy gone from her face . 
Billy , once assured that Marie was out of hearing , ran to the telephone . 
Bertram , tell Cyril I want to speak to him , please . 
'' All right , dear , but go easy . 
Better strike up your tuning fork to find his pitch to day . 
You'll discover it's a high one , all right . 
'' A moment later Cyril's tersely nervous Good morning , Billy , '' came across the line . 
Billy drew in her breath and cast a hurriedly apprehensive glance over her shoulder to make sure Marie was not near . 
'' Oh , yes , you do to day ! You would if you could see Marie now . 
'' Sensible girl ! '' Yes , but she can't , you know , with fifty guests coming to the wedding , and twice as many more to the reception . 
Honestly , Cyril , she's broken hearted . 
She's coming ! '' And the receiver clicked sharply into place . 
Five minutes later Marie was called to the telephone . 
Dejectedly , wistful eyed , she went . 
Contentedly , then , Billy went back to her roses . 
It was a pretty wedding , a very pretty wedding . 
, the pretty frocks and smiling faces of the guests all helped . 
There was , too , not quite unnoticed , the bridegroom tall , of distinguished bearing , and with features that were clear cut and to day rather pale . 
Then came the reception the women and confusion of Cyril's fears followed by the going away of the bride and groom with its merry warfare of confetti and old shoes . 
At four o'clock , however , with only William and Bertram remaining for guests , something like quiet descended at last on the little house . 
Well , it's over , '' sighed Billy , dropping exhaustedly into a big chair in the living room . 
And well over , '' supplemented Aunt Hannah , covering her white shawl with a warmer blue one . 
Yes , I think it was , '' nodded Kate . 
It was really a very pretty wedding . 
'' With your help , Kate eh ? '' teased William . 
Well , I flatter myself I did do some good , '' bridled Kate , as she turned to help little Kate take the flower wreath from her head . 
Even if you did hurry into my room and scare me into conniption fits telling me I'd be late , '' laughed Billy . 
Well , how was I to know that Aunt Hannah's clock only meant half past eleven when it struck twelve ? '' she retorted . 
Oh , well , it was a pretty wedding , '' declared William , with a long sigh . 
It'll do for an understudy , '' said Bertram softly , for Billy's ears alone . 
'' Oh , no , he wasn't begging your pardon , my dear , '' objected Bertram . 
I watched him , too , even more closely than you did , and it was always the woman who was talking to Cyril ! '' Billy laughed . 
Well , anyhow , '' she maintained , he listened . 
'' As if a bridegroom could ! '' cried Kate . 
I'm going to , '' avowed Bertram , his nose in the air . 
Pooh ! '' scoffed Kate . 
Then she added eagerly You must be married in church , Billy , and in the evening . 
'' Bertram's nose came suddenly out of the air . 
His eyes met Kate's squarely . 
Billy hasn't decided yet how she does want to be married , '' he said with unnecessary emphasis . 
Billy laughed and interposed a quick change of subject . 
I think people had a pretty good time , too , for a wedding , don't you ? '' she asked . 
I was sorry Mary Jane couldn't be here 'twould have been such a good chance for him to meet our friends . 
'' As Mary Jane ? '' asked Bertram , a little stiffly . 
Really , my dear , '' murmured Aunt Hannah , I think it would be more respectful to call him by his name . 
'' By the way , what is his name ? '' questioned William . 
That's what we don't know , '' laughed Billy . 
Well , you know the Arkwright , don't you ? '' put in Bertram . 
Bertram , too , laughed , but it was a little forcedly . 
There ! we never thought of Methuselah , '' she gurgled gleefully . 
As if I'd let you go back to a forlorn dinner in that great house to night ! Indeed , no ! '' William smiled , hesitated , and sat down . 
Well , of course '' he began . 
Yes , of course , '' finished Billy , quickly . 
I'll telephone Pete that you'll stay here both of you . 
'' It was at this point that little Kate , who had been turning interested eyes from one brother to the other , interposed a clear , high pitched question . 
Bertram said a low word under his breath . 
Aunt Hannah's Oh , my grief and conscience ! '' was almost a groan . 
Well , my little lady , '' he suggested , let us put it the other way and say that quite probably she didn't want to marry me . 
'' Does she want to marry Uncle Bertram ? '' Kate ! '' gasped Billy and Mrs. Hartwell together this time , fearful of what might be coming next . 
We'll hope so , '' nodded Uncle William , speaking in a cheerfully matter of fact voice , intended to discourage curiosity . 
The little girl frowned and pondered . 
Her elders cast about in their minds for a speedy change of subject but their somewhat scattered wits were not quick enough . 
It was little Kate who spoke next . 
Uncle William , would she have got Uncle Cyril if Aunt Marie hadn't nabbed him first ? '' Kate ! '' The word was a chorus of dismay this time . 
Mrs. Hartwell struggled to her feet . 
Come , come , Kate , we must go up stairs to bed , '' she stammered . 
The little girl drew back indignantly . 
To bed ? Why , mama , I haven't had my supper yet ! '' What ? Oh , sure enough the lights ! I forgot . 
Well , then , come up to change your dress , '' finished Mrs. Hartwell , as with a despairing look and gesture she led her young daughter from the room . 
It's just as if everything had stopped at Marie's wedding , and there wasn't anything more to do , '' she complained to Aunt Hannah at the breakfast table . 
Everything seems so queer ! '' It won't long , dear , '' smiled Aunt Hannah , tranquilly , as she buttered her roll , specially after Bertram comes back . 
How long does he stay in New York ? '' Only three days but I'm just sure it's going to seem three weeks , now , '' sighed Billy . 
But he simply had to go else he wouldn't have gone . 
'' I've no doubt of it , '' observed Aunt Hannah . 
And at the meaning emphasis of her words , Billy laughed a little . 
After a minute she said aggrievedly I had supposed that I could at least have a sort of after the ball' celebration this morning picking up and straightening things around . 
But John and Rosa have done it all . 
There isn't so much as a rose leaf anywhere on the floor . 
Of course most of the flowers went to the hospital last night , anyway . 
As for Marie's room it looks as spick and span as if it had never seen a scrap of ribbon or an inch of tulle . 
'' But the wedding presents ? '' All carried down to the kitchen and half packed now , ready to go over to the new home . 
John says he'll take them over in Peggy this afternoon , after he takes Mrs. Hartwell's trunk to Uncle William's . 
'' Well , you can at least go over to the apartment and work , '' suggested Aunt Hannah , hopefully . 
Humph ! Can I ? '' scoffed Billy . 
As if I could when Marie left strict orders that not one thing was to be touched till she got here . 
They arranged everything but the presents before the wedding , anyway and Marie wants to fix those herself after she gets back . 
No , I can't go to work over there . 
'' But there's your music , my dear . 
You said you were going to write some new songs after the wedding . 
'' No , of course not but they'll come , dear , in time . 
You're tired , now , '' soothed Aunt Hannah , as she turned to leave the room . 
It's the reaction , of course , '' murmured Aunt Hannah to herself , on the way up stairs . 
She's had the whole thing on her hands dear child ! '' A few minutes later , from the living room , came a plaintive little minor melody . 
Billy was at the piano . 
Kate and little Kate had , the night before , gone home with William . 
It had been a sudden decision , brought about by the realization that Bertram's trip to New York would leave William alone . 
Her trunk was to be carried there to day , and she would leave for home from there , at the end of a two or three days' visit . 
It began to snow at twelve o'clock . 
Billy , however , with a rare frown upon her face , looked out upon it with disapproving eyes . 
I was going in town and I believe I'll go now , '' she cried . 
Don't , dear , please don't , '' begged Aunt Hannah . 
See , the flakes are smaller now , and the wind is coming up . 
We're in for a blizzard I'm sure we are . 
And you know you have some cold , already . 
'' All right , '' sighed Billy . 
Then it's me for the knitting work and the fire , I suppose , '' she finished , with a whimsicality that did not hide the wistful disappointment of her voice . 
She was not knitting , however , she was sewing with Aunt Hannah when at four o'clock Rosa brought in the card . 
Billy glanced at the name , then sprang to her feet with a glad little cry . 
It's Mary Jane ! '' she exclaimed , as Rosa disappeared . 
Now wasn't he a dear to think to come to day ? You'll be down , won't you ? '' Aunt Hannah smiled even while she frowned . 
Oh , Billy ! '' she remonstrated . 
Yes , I'll come down , of course , a little later , and I'm glad Mr. Arkwright came , '' she said with reproving emphasis . 
Billy laughed and threw a mischievous glance over her shoulder . 
All right , '' she nodded . 
I'll go and tell Mr. Arkwright you'll be down directly . 
'' In the living room Billy greeted her visitor with a frankly cordial hand . 
How did you know , Mr. Arkwright , that I was feeling specially restless and lonesome to day ? '' she demanded . 
A glad light sprang to the man's dark eyes . 
I didn't know it , '' he rejoined . 
I only knew that I was specially restless and lonesome myself . 
'' Arkwright's voice was not quite steady . 
The unmistakable friendliness in the girl's words and manner had sent a quick throb of joy to his heart . 
Her evident delight in his coming had filled him with rapture . 
You see , the tension has snapped , '' she added laughingly , as she seated herself . 
Tension ? '' The wedding , you know . 
But it was a lovely wedding , Mr. Arkwright . 
I'm sorry you could not be here . 
'' Thank you so am I though usually , I will confess , I'm not much good at attending functions' and meeting strangers . 
As perhaps you've guessed , Miss Neilson , I'm not particularly a society chap . 
'' Of course you aren't ! People who are doing things real things seldom are . 
But we aren't the society kind ourselves , you know not the capital S kind . 
We like sociability , which is vastly different from liking Society . 
Oh , we have friends , to be sure , who dote on pink teas and purple pageants , as Cyril calls them and we even go ourselves sometimes . 
Why , we even had a poet , sir only he didn't have long hair , so he didn't look the part a bit , '' she finished laughingly . 
Is long hair necessary for poets ? '' Arkwright's smile was quizzical . 
Dear me , no not now . 
But it used to be , didn't it ? And for painters , too . 
But now they look just like folks . 
It isn't possible that you are sighing for the velvet coats and flowing ties of the past , is it , Miss Neilson ? '' I'm afraid it is , '' dimpled Billy . 
I love velvet coats and flowing ties ! '' May singers wear them ? I shall don them at once , anyhow , at a venture , '' declared the man , promptly . 
Billy smiled and shook her head . 
I don't think you will . 
You all like your horrid fuzzy tweeds and worsteds too well ! '' You speak with feeling . 
One would almost suspect that you already had tried to bring about a reform and failed . 
Perhaps Mr. Cyril , now , or Mr. Bertram '' Arkwright stopped with a whimsical smile . 
It was on the point of Billy's tongue now to say this to Arkwright but another glance at the provoking smile on his lips drove the words back in angry confusion . 
With a little gesture of playful scorn she rose and went to the piano . 
Come , let us try some duets , '' she suggested . 
That's lots nicer than quarrelling over velvet coats and Aunt Hannah will be down presently to hear us sing . 
'' Before she had ceased speaking , Arkwright was at her side with an exclamation of eager acquiescence . 
It was after the second duet that Arkwright asked , a little diffidently . 
Have you written any new songs lately ? '' No. '' You're going to ? '' Perhaps if I find one to write . 
'' You mean you have no words ? '' Yes and no . 
I have some words , both of my own and other people's but I haven't found in any one of them , yet a melody . 
His right hand went almost to his inner coat pocket then fell back at his side . 
The next moment he picked up a sheet of music . 
Are you too tired to try this ? '' he asked . 
A puzzled frown appeared on Billy's face . 
'' Of course , '' cried Billy , rising at once . 
You shall have a dozen shawls , if you like , '' she laughed , as she left the room . 
It was then that Arkwright talked of himself , telling them something of his studies , and of the life he was living . 
After all , you see there's just this difference between my friends and yours , '' he said , at last . 
Your friends are doing things . 
Mine haven't , yet they're only trying . 
'' But they will succeed , '' cried Billy . 
Some of them , '' amended the man . 
Not all of them ? '' Billy looked a little troubled . 
Arkwright shook his head slowly . 
No. They couldn't all of them , you know . 
Some haven't the talent , some haven't the perseverance , and some haven't the money . 
'' But all that seems such a pity when they've tried , '' grieved Billy . 
It is a pity , Miss Neilson . 
Disappointed hopes are always a pity , aren't they ? '' Y yes , '' sighed the girl . 
But if there were only something one could do to help ! '' Arkwright's eyes grew deep with feeling , but his voice , when he spoke , was purposely light . 
I'm afraid that would be quite too big a contract for even your generosity , Miss Neilson to mend all the broken hopes in the world , '' he prophesied . 
I have known great good to come from great disappointments , remarked Aunt Hannah , a bit didactically . 
So have I , '' laughed Arkwright , still determined to drive the troubled shadow from the face he was watching so intently . 
For instance a fellow I know was feeling all cut up last Friday because he was just too late to get into Symphony Hall on the twenty five cent admission . 
Half an hour afterwards his disappointment was turned to joy a friend who had an orchestra chair couldn't use his ticket that day , and so handed it over to him . 
What are those twenty five cent tickets to the Symphony ? '' Then you don't know ? '' Not exactly . 
I've heard of them , in a vague fashion . 
'' Then you've missed one of the sights of Boston if you haven't ever seen that long line of patient waiters at the door of Symphony Hall of a Friday morning . 
'' Morning ! But the concert isn't till afternoon ! '' No , but the waiting is , '' retorted Arkwright . 
You see , those admissions are limited five hundred and five , I believe and they're rush seats , at that . 
First come , first served and if you're too late you aren't served at all . 
So the first arrival comes bright and early . 
I've heard that he has been known to come at peep of day when there's a Paderewski or a Melba for a drawing card . 
But I've got my doubts of that . 
Anyhow , I never saw them there much before half past eight . 
But many's the cold , stormy day I've seen those steps in front of the Hall packed for hours , and a long line reaching away up the avenue . 
And they'll stand all that time and wait ? '' To be sure they will . 
You see , each pays twenty five cents at the door , until the limit is reached , then the rest are turned away . 
Naturally they don't want to be turned away , so they try to get there early enough to be among the fortunate five hundred and five . 
Besides , the earlier you are , the better seat you are likely to get . 
'' But only think of standing all that time ! '' Oh , they bring camp chairs , sometimes , I've heard , and then there are the steps . 
All the comforts of home , you see , '' smiled Arkwright . 
Why , how how dreadful ! '' stammered Billy . 
Oh , but they don't think it's dreadful at all , '' corrected Arkwright , quickly . 
For twenty five cents they can hear all that you hear down in your orchestra chair , for which you've paid so high a premium . 
'' But who who are they ? Where do they come from ? Who would go and stand hours like that to get a twenty five cent seat ? '' questioned Billy . 
Who are they ? Anybody , everybody , from anywhere ? everywhere people who have the music hunger but not the money to satisfy it , '' he rejoined . 
Really to know that line , you should see it for yourself , Miss Neilson , '' smiled Arkwright , as he reluctantly rose to go . 
But that was like Billy . 
Since then Billy had always been trying in a way to give ice cream to some one who wanted it . 
Arkwright was almost at the door when he turned abruptly . 
His face was an abashed red . 
From his pocket he had taken a small folded paper . 
Do you suppose in this you might find that melody ? '' he stammered in a low voice . 
The next moment he was gone , having left in Billy's fingers a paper upon which was written in a clear cut , masculine hand six four line stanzas . 
Billy read them at once , hurriedly , then more carefully . 
There is I know there is and I'll write it for Bertram , '' she finished , crossing joyously to the piano . 
Half way down Corey Hill at that moment , Arkwright was buffeting the wind and snow . 
He , too , was thinking joyously of those stanzas joyously , yet at the same time fearfully . 
Arkwright himself had written those lines though not for Bertram . 
BILLY'' AND MISS MARY JANE'' On the fourteenth of December Billy came down stairs alert , interested , and happy . 
, the sun was shining , and her fingers were fairly tingling to put on paper the little melody that was now surging riotously through her brain . 
Emphatically , the restlessness of the day before was gone now . 
Once more Billy's clock'' had begun to tick . 
'' After breakfast Billy went straight to the telephone and called up Arkwright . 
Even one side of the conversation Aunt Hannah did not hear very clearly but in five minutes a radiant faced Billy danced into the room . 
Billy laughed and gave the anxious eyed little old lady an impulsive hug . 
Of course ! I'll say His Majesty' if you like , dear , '' she chuckled . 
But did you hear did you realize ? They're his own words , so there's no question of rights or permission , or anything . 
And he's coming up this afternoon to hear my melody , and to make a few little changes in the words , maybe . 
Why , Aunt Hannah , aren't you glad ? You said you'd be glad ! '' Yes , dear and I am very glad . 
It's only if it doesn't take too much time and if Bertram doesn't mind . 
She laughed a little bitterly . 
'' Fiddlededee ! '' bristled Aunt Hannah . 
What did she mean by that ? '' Billy smiled ruefully . 
Well , probably I did need it . 
She said it night before last just before she went home with Uncle William . 
'' Fiddlededee ! '' ejaculated the irate Aunt Hannah , even more sharply . 
I hope you have too much good sense to mind what Kate says , Billy . 
And I will own that I've had a real struggle with myself sometimes , lately , not to mind his giving so much time to his portrait painting . 
And of course both of those are very reprehensible in an artist's wife , '' she finished , a little tremulously . 
Humph ! Well , I don't think I should worry about that , '' observed Aunt Hannah with grim positiveness . 
No , I don't mean to , '' smiled Billy , wistfully . 
I only told you so you'd understand that it was just as well if I did have something to take up my mind besides Bertram . 
And of course music would be the most natural thing . 
'' Yes , of course , '' agreed Aunt Hannah . 
And it seems actually almost providential that Mary I mean Mr. Arkwright is here to help me , now that Cyril is gone , '' went on Billy , still a little wistfully . 
He isn't like a stranger , '' murmured Aunt Hannah . 
Aunt Hannah's voice sounded as if she were trying to convince herself of something . 
No , indeed ! He seems just like one of the family to me , almost as if he were really your niece , Mary Jane , '' laughed Billy . 
Yes , yes , of course he must , '' subsided Aunt Hannah , confusedly , hoping that Billy would not divine the hidden reason behind her question . 
She was relieved when Billy's next words showed that she had not divined it . 
I told you , didn't I ? He's coming up this afternoon . 
He can't get here till five , though but he's so interested ! He's about as crazy over the thing as I am . 
And it's going to be fine , Aunt Hannah , when it's done . 
You just wait and see ! '' she finished gayly , as she tripped from the room . 
Left to herself , Aunt Hannah drew a long breath . 
I'm glad she didn't suspect , '' she was thinking . 
I believe she'd consider even the question disloyal to Bertram dear child ! And of course Mary'' Aunt Hannah corrected herself with cheeks aflame I mean Mr. Arkwright does know . 
'' It was just here , however , that Aunt Hannah was mistaken . 
Mr. Arkwright did not know . 
He had not reached Boston when the engagement was announced . 
He knew none of Billy's friends in town save the Henshaw brothers . 
He had not heard from Calderwell since he came to Boston . 
As to Bertram being Billy's lover that idea had long ago been killed at birth by Calderwell's emphatic assertion that the artist would never care for any girl except to paint . 
Since coming to Boston , Arkwright had seen little of the two together . 
His work , his friends , and his general mode of life precluded that . 
Because of all this , therefore , Arkwright did not know which was a pity for Arkwright , and for some others . 
Promptly at five o'clock that afternoon , Arkwright rang Billy's doorbell , and was admitted by Rosa to the living room , where Billy was at the piano . 
Billy sprang to her feet with a joyous word of greeting . 
I'm so glad you've come , '' she sighed happily . 
I want you to hear the melody your pretty words have sung to me . 
Though , maybe , after all , you won't like it , you know , '' she finished with arch wistfulness . 
As if I could help liking it , '' smiled the man , trying to keep from his voice the ecstatic delight that the touch of her hand had brought him . 
Billy shook her head and seated herself again at the piano . 
The words are lovely , '' she declared , sorting out two or three sheets of manuscript music from the quantity on the rack before her . 
But there's one place the rhythm , you know if you could change it . 
First I'm going to play it straight through to you . 
'' And she dropped her fingers to the keyboard . 
The next moment a tenderly sweet melody with only a chord now and then for accompaniment filled Arkwright's soul with rapture . 
Then Billy began to sing , very softly , the words ! No wonder Arkwright's soul was filled with rapture . 
They were his words , wrung straight from his heart and they were being sung by the girl for whom they were written . 
They were being sung with feeling , too so evident a feeling that the man's pulse quickened , and his eyes flashed a sudden fire . 
Arkwright could not know , of course , that Billy , in her own mind , was singing that song to Bertram Henshaw . 
The fire was still in Arkwright's eyes when the song was ended but Billy very plainly did not see it . 
Billy , however , turned an untroubled face to the newcomer . 
We're doing finely , Aunt Hannah , '' she cried . 
Then , suddenly , she flung a laughing question to the man . 
No unless it's Methuselah John . 
We did think of that the other day . 
'' Wrong again ! '' he laughed . 
Then it'll have to be Mary Jane , '' retorted Billy , with calm naughtiness , refusing to meet Aunt Hannah's beseechingly reproving eyes . 
It would be a combination , wouldn't it ? Words by Mary Jane Arkwright . 
Music by Billy Neilson' ! We'd have sighing swains writing to Dear Miss Arkwright , telling how touching were her words and lovelorn damsels thanking Mr . 
Neilson for his soul inspiring music ! '' Billy , my dear ! '' remonstrated Aunt Hannah , faintly . 
Yes , yes , I know that was bad and I won't again , truly , '' promised Billy . 
But her eyes danced , and the next moment she had whirled about on the piano stool and dashed into a Chopin waltz . 
The room itself , then , seemed to be full of the twinkling feet of elves . 
CHAPTER XVI A GIRL AND A BIT OF LOWESTOFT Immediately after breakfast the next morning , Billy was summoned to the telephone . 
Oh , good morning , Uncle William , '' she called , in answer to the masculine voice that replied to her Hullo . 
'' Billy , are you very busy this morning ? '' No , indeed not if you want me . 
'' Well , I do , my dear . 
'' Uncle William's voice was troubled . 
I want you to go with me , if you can , to see a Mrs. Greggory . 
She's got a teapot I want . 
It's a genuine Lowestoft , Harlow says . 
Will you go ? '' Of course I will ! What time ? '' Eleven if you can , at Park Street . 
She's at the West End . 
I don't dare to put it off for fear I'll lose it . 
Harlow says others will have to know of it , of course . 
You see , she's just made up her mind to sell it , and asked him to find a customer . 
I wouldn't trouble you , but he says they're peculiar the daughter , especially and may need some careful handling . 
That's why I wanted you though I wanted you to see the tea pot , too , it'll be yours some day , you know . 
'' Billy , all alone at her end of the line , blushed . 
That she was one day to be mistress of the Strata and all it contained was still anything but common'' to her . 
I'd love to see it , and I'll come gladly but I'm afraid I won't be much help , Uncle William , '' she worried . 
I'll take the risk of that . 
You see , Harlow says that about half the time she isn't sure she wants to sell it , after all . 
'' Why , how funny ! Well , I'll come . 
At eleven , you say , at Park Street ? '' Yes and thank you , my dear . 
I tried to get Kate to go , too but she wouldn't . 
By the way , I'm going to bring you home to luncheon . 
Kate leaves this afternoon , you know , and it's been so snowy she hasn't thought best to try to get over to the house . 
Maybe Aunt Hannah would come , too , for luncheon . 
Would she ? '' I'm afraid not , '' returned Billy , with a rueful laugh . 
She's got three shawls on this morning , and you know that always means that she's felt a draft somewhere poor dear . 
I'll tell her , though , and I'll see you at eleven , '' finished Billy , as she hung up the receiver . 
Promptly at the appointed time Billy met Uncle William at Park Street , and together they set out for the West End street named on the paper in his pocket . 
But when the shabby house on the narrow little street was reached , the man looked about him with a troubled frown . 
I declare , Billy , I'm not sure but we'd better turn back , '' he fretted . 
I didn't mean to take you to such a place as this . 
'' Billy shivered a little but after one glance at the man's disappointed face she lifted a determined chin . 
Nonsense , Uncle William ! Of course you won't turn back . 
I don't mind for myself but only think of the people whose homes are here , '' she finished , just above her breath . 
Even as she uttered the words , however , she looked fearfully over her shoulders as if expecting to hear from the hall behind them a voice denying her assertion . 
Mrs. Greggory was a cripple . 
Her slender little body was poised on two once costly crutches . 
Both the worn places on the crutches , and the skill with which the little woman swung herself about the room testified that the crippled condition was not a new one . 
Billy's eyes were brimming with pity and dismay . 
Mechanically she had taken the chair toward which Mrs. Greggory had motioned her . 
Mrs. Greggory had seated herself now , and William Henshaw had cleared his throat nervously . 
Billy did not know whether she herself were the more distressed or the more relieved to hear him stammer We er I came from Harlow , Mrs. Greggory . 
He gave me to understand you had an er teapot that er '' With his eyes on the cracked white crockery pitcher on the table , William Henshaw came to a helpless pause . 
A curious expression , or rather , series of expressions crossed Mrs. Greggory's face . 
Terror , joy , dismay , and relief seemed , one after the other to fight for supremacy . 
Relief in the end conquered , though even yet there was a second hurriedly apprehensive glance toward the door before she spoke . 
The Lowestoft ! Yes , I'm so glad ! that is , of course I must be glad . 
'' Her voice broke as she pulled herself from her chair . 
There was only despairing sorrow on her face now . 
The man rose at once . 
But , madam , perhaps don't let me '' I he began stammeringly . 
Of course Billy ! '' he broke off in an entirely different voice . 
Near it set a tray like plate of the same ware and decoration . 
If you'll lift it down , please , yourself , '' motioned Mrs. Greggory . 
I don't like to with these , '' she explained , tapping the crutches at her side . 
With fingers that were almost reverent in their appreciation , the collector reached for the teapot . 
You don't see that every day ! They get separated , most generally , you know . 
'' These pieces have been in our family for generations , '' said Mrs. Greggory with an accent of pride . 
You'll find them quite perfect , I think . 
'' Perfect ! I should say they were , '' cried the man . 
They are , then valuable ? '' Mrs. Greggory's voice shook . 
Indeed they are ! But you must know that . 
'' I have been told so . 
Yet to me their chief value , of course , lies in their association . 
My mother and my grandmother owned that teapot , sir . 
'' Again her voice broke . 
William Henshaw cleared his throat . 
But , madam , if you do not wish to sell '' He stopped abruptly . 
His longing eyes had gone back to the enticing bit of china . 
Mrs. Greggory gave a low cry . 
But I do that is , I must . 
Mr. Harlow says that it is valuable , and that it will bring in money and we need money . 
'' She threw a quick glance toward the hall door , though she did not pause in her remarks . 
I can't do much at work that pays . 
There was a lump in her throat and a smart in her eyes . 
And so you see , I do very much wish to sell , '' Mrs. Greggory said then . 
Perhaps you will tell me what it would be worth to you , '' she concluded tremulously . 
He picked up the teapot with careful rapture and examined it . 
Then he turned to the tray . 
After a moment he spoke . 
I have only one other in my collection as rare , '' he said . 
I paid a hundred dollars for that . 
I shall be glad to give you the same for this , madam . 
'' Mrs. Greggory started visibly . 
A hundred dollars ? So much as that ? '' she cried almost joyously . 
Why , nothing else that we've had has brought Of course , if it's worth that to you '' She paused suddenly . 
A quick step had sounded in the hall outside . 
The next moment the door flew open and a young woman , who looked to be about twenty three or twenty four years old , burst into the room . 
Mother , only think , I've '' She stopped , and drew back a little . 
Her startled eyes went from one face to another , then dropped to the Lowestoft teapot in the man's hands . 
Her expression changed at once . 
She shut the door quickly and hurried forward . 
Mother , what is it ? Who are these people ? '' she asked sharply . 
Billy lifted her chin the least bit . 
She was conscious of a feeling which she could not name Billy was not used to being called these people'' in precisely that tone of voice . 
William Henshaw , too , raised his chin . 
He , also , was not in the habit of being referred to as these people . 
'' My name is Henshaw , Miss Greggory , I presume , '' he said quietly . 
I was sent here by Mr. Harlow . 
'' About the teapot , my dear , you know , '' stammered Mrs. Greggory , wetting her lips with an air of hurried apology and conciliation . 
This gentleman says he will be glad to buy it . 
A swift red stained Alice Greggory's face . 
With barely an acknowledgment of the introductions she turned to her mother . 
Yes , dear , but that won't be necessary now . 
'' As she finished her sentence she stepped one side as if to make room for the strangers to reach the door . 
William Henshaw frowned angrily that was the man but his eyes the collector's eyes sought the teapot longingly . 
Before either the man or the collector could speak , however Mrs. Greggory interposed quick words of remonstrance . 
But , Alice , my dear , '' she almost sobbed . 
You didn't wait to let me tell you . 
Mr. Henshaw says it is worth a hundred dollars to him . 
He will give us a hundred dollars . 
'' A hundred dollars ! '' echoed the girl , faintly . 
It was plain to be seen that she was wavering . 
Billy was wondering which she herself desired more that Uncle William should buy the Lowestoft , or that he should not . 
She knew she wished Mrs. Greggory to have the hundred dollars . 
There was no doubt on that point . 
His words carried the righteous indignation of the man who thinks he has been unjustly treated , and the final plea of the collector who sees a coveted treasure slipping from his grasp . 
I am very sorry , of course , if my offer has annoyed you , '' he said stiffly . 
I certainly should not have made it had I not had Mrs. Greggory's assurance that she wished to sell the teapot . 
'' Alice Greggory turned as if stung . 
Wished to sell ! '' She repeated the words with superb disdain . 
She was plainly very angry . 
Her blue gray eyes gleamed with scorn , and her whole face was suffused with a red that had swept to the roots of her soft hair . 
I can't help it , '' stormed the girl , hotly . 
I know how much you think of that teapot that was grandmother's . 
I know what it cost you to make up your mind to sell it at all . 
With a little outward fling of her two hands Alice Greggory stepped back . 
Her face had grown white again . 
I beg your pardon , of course , '' she said in a voice that was bitterly quiet . 
I should not have spoken so . 
You are very kind , Mr. Henshaw , but I do not think we care to sell the Lowestoft to day . 
'' Both words and manner were obviously a dismissal and with a puzzled sigh William Henshaw picked up his hat . 
During the brief minute that he hesitated , however , Billy sprang forward . 
She drew herself proudly erect . 
For answer Alice Greggory walked deliberately to the door and held it open . 
Oh , Alice , my dear , '' pleaded Mrs. Greggory again , feebly . 
Come , Billy ! We'll bid you good morning , ladies , '' said William Henshaw then , decisively . 
And Billy , with a little wistful pat on Mrs. Greggory's clasped hands , went . 
Once down the long four flights of stairs and out on the sidewalk , William Henshaw drew a long breath . 
Well , by Jove ! Billy , the next time I take you curio hunting , it won't be to this place , '' he fumed . 
Wasn't it awful ! '' choked Billy . 
Awful ! The girl was the most stubborn , unreasonable , vixenish little puss I ever saw . 
Still , I was sorry for the poor little old lady . 
I wish , somehow , she could have that hundred dollars ! '' It was the man who said this , not the collector . 
So do I , '' rejoined Billy , dolefully . 
But that girl was so so queer ! '' she sighed , with a frown . 
For the first time , perhaps , in her life , she knew what it was to have her proffered ice cream'' disdainfully refused . 
CHAPTER XVII ONLY A LOVE SONG , BUT Kate and little Kate left for the West on the afternoon of the fifteenth , and Bertram arrived from New York that evening . 
Notwithstanding the confusion of all this , Billy still had time to give some thought to her experience of the morning with Uncle William . 
The forlorn little room with its poverty stricken furnishings and its crippled mistress was very vivid in Billy's memory . 
Equally vivid were the flashing eyes of Alice Greggory as she had opened the door at the last . 
The impertinence of it ! But then , you won't see them any more , sweetheart , so we'll just forget it . 
'' Forget it ! Why , Bertram , I couldn't ! You couldn't , if you'd been there . 
Besides , of course I shall see them again ! '' Bertram's jaw dropped . 
Why , Billy , you don't mean that Will , or you either , would try again for that trumpery teapot ! '' Of course not , '' flashed Billy , heatedly . 
It isn't the teapot it's that dear little Mrs. Greggory . 
Why , dearie , you don't know how poor they are ! Everything in sight is so old and thin and worn it's enough to break your heart . 
The rug isn't anything but darns , nor the tablecloth , either except patches . 
Mercy ! '' she chuckled . 
'' Or a smile which I fancy will be the best gift of the lot , '' amended Bertram , fondly . 
Billy dimpled and shook her head . 
Smiles my smiles are not so valuable , I'm afraid except to you , perhaps , '' she laughed . 
Self evident facts need no proving , '' retorted Bertram . 
Well , and what else has happened in all these ages I've been away ? '' Billy brought her hands together with a sudden cry . 
Oh , and I haven't told you ! '' she exclaimed . 
I'm writing a new song a love song . 
Mary Jane wrote the words . 
Indeed ! And is Mary Jane a poet , with all the rest ? '' he asked , with affected lightness . 
Oh , no , of course not , '' smiled Billy but these words are pretty . 
And they just sang themselves into the dearest little melody right away . 
So I'm writing the music for them . 
'' Lucky Mary Jane ! '' murmured Bertram , still with a lightness that he hoped would pass for indifference . 
And will the title page say , Words by Mary Jane Arkwright' ? '' he finished . 
That's what I asked him , '' laughed Billy . 
I even suggested Methuselah John' for a change . 
Oh , but , dearie , '' she broke off with shy eagerness , I just want you to hear a little of what I've done with it . 
It was a bad ten minutes that Bertram Henshaw spent then . 
How he could love a song and hate it at the same time he did not understand but he knew that he was doing exactly that . 
But when he looked at her and thought of Arkwright , who had made possible that singing , his heart froze with terror . 
From the very first it had been music that Bertram had feared . 
He could not forget that Billy herself had once told him that never would she love any man better than she loved her music that she was not going to marry . 
All this had been at the first the very first . 
And he had won but not until after long weeks of fearing , hoping , striving , and despairing this last when Kate's blundering had nearly made her William's wife . 
Then , on that memorable day in September , Billy had walked straight into his arms and he knew that he had , indeed , won . 
That is , he had supposed that he knew until Arkwright came . 
Very sharply now , as he listened to Billy's singing , Bertram told himself to be reasonable , to be sensible that Billy did , indeed , love him . 
Was she not , according to her own dear assertion , singing that song to him ? But it was Arkwright's song . 
He remembered that , too and grew faint at the thought . 
There ! '' she breathed , her face shyly radiant with the glory of the song . 
He saw , then , the happy light in Billy's eyes change to troubled questioning and grieved disappointment and he hated himself for a jealous brute . 
It'll be much better , later . 
'' But it s sic fine , now , sweetheart indeed it is , '' protested Bertram , hurriedly . 
Well , of course I'm glad if you like it , '' murmured Billy but the glow did not come back to her face . 
CHAPTER XVIII SUGARPLUMS Those short December days after Bertram's return from New York were busy ones for everybody . 
He was often at Hillside , however , and the lovers managed to snatch many an hour of quiet happiness from the rush and confusion of the Christmas preparations . 
Bertram was assuring himself now that his jealous fears of Arkwright were groundless . 
Billy seldom mentioned the man , and , as the days passed , she spoke only once of his being at the house . 
The song , too , she said little of and Bertram though he was ashamed to own it to himself breathed more freely . 
I'll make her care for me sometime for something besides a song , '' he told himself with fierce consolation but Billy did not know this . 
Aside from Bertram , Christmas filled all of Billy's thoughts these days . 
There were such a lot of things she wished to do . 
I can't really do much . 
'' Much ! '' scoffed Bertram . 
But it isn't much , , honestly compared to what there is to do , '' argued Billy . 
You see , dear , it's just this , '' she went on , her bright face sobering a little . 
There are such a lot of people in the world who aren't really poor . 
That is , they have bread , and probably meat , to eat , and enough clothes to keep them warm . 
But when you've said that , you've said it all . 
Books , music , fun , and frosting on their cake they know nothing about except to long for them . 
Oh , but the churches and charities don't frost cakes nor give sugarplums , '' smiled Billy . 
And it's right that they shouldn't , too , '' she added quickly . 
They have more than they can do now with the roast beef and coal and flannel petticoats that are really necessary . 
Why , Bertram , however in the world did you find out about all that ? '' I didn't . 
I just guessed it and it seems the boy guessed right the very first time , '' laughed Bertram , teasingly , but with a tender light in his eyes . 
Oh , and I suppose you'll be sending a frosted cake to the Lowestoft lady , too , eh ? '' Billy's chin rose to a defiant stubbornness . 
I'm going to try to if I can find out what kind of frosting she likes . 
'' How about the Alice lady or perhaps I should say , the Lady Alice ? '' smiled the man . 
Yes , I know , '' she sighed . 
There is the Lady Alice . 
But , anyhow , she can't call a Christmas present charity' not if it's only a little bit of frosting ! '' Billy's chin came up again . 
And you're going to , really , dare to send her something ? '' Yes , '' avowed Billy . 
I'm going down there one of these days , in the morning '' You're going down there ! Billy not alone ? '' Yes . 
Why not ? '' But , dearie , you mustn't . 
It was a horrid place , Will says . 
'' So it was horrid to live in . 
It was everything that was cheap and mean and forlorn . 
But it was quiet and respectable . 
'Tisn't as if I didn't know the way , Bertram and I'm sure that where that poor crippled woman and daughter are safe , I shall be . 
Those pitiful little worn crutches of hers were mahogany , I'm sure , Bertram , and they were silver mounted . 
'' Bertram made a restless movement . 
I know , dear but if you had some one with you ! It wouldn't do for Will , of course , nor me under the circumstances . 
But there's Aunt Hannah '' He paused hopefully . 
Still well , you can take Rosa , '' he concluded decisively . 
How Miss Alice would like that to catch me going slumming' with my maid ! '' cried Billy , righteous indignation in her voice . 
Honestly , Bertram , I think even gentle Mrs. Greggory wouldn't stand for that . 
'' Then leave Rosa outside in the hall , '' planned Bertram , promptly and after a few more arguments , Billy finally agreed to this . 
It was with Rosa , therefore , that she set out the next morning for the little room up four flights on the narrow West End street . 
Leaving the maid on the top stair of the fourth flight , Billy tapped at Mrs. Greggory's door . 
To her joy Mrs. Greggory herself answered the knock . 
Oh ! Why why , good morning , '' murmured the lady , in evident embarrassment . 
Won't you come m ? '' Thank you . 
May I ? just a minute ? '' smiled Billy , brightly . 
As she entered the room , Billy threw a hasty look about her . 
There was no one but themselves present . 
With a sigh of satisfaction , therefore , the girl took the chair Mrs. Greggory offered , and began to speak . 
We didn't want it , of course if you didn't want us to have it . 
'' A swift change crossed Mrs. Greggory's perturbed face . 
Oh , then you didn't come for it again to day , '' she said . 
I'm so glad ! I didn't want to refuse you . 
'' Indeed I didn't come for it and we sha'n't again . 
Don't worry about that , please . 
I'm afraid you thought me very rude and and impossible the other day , '' she stammered . 
And please let me take this opportunity right now to apologize for my daughter . 
She was overwrought and excited . 
She didn't know what she was saying or doing , I'm sure . 
She was ashamed , I think after you left . 
'' Billy raised a quick hand of protest . 
Don't , please don't , Mrs. Greggory , '' she begged . 
But it was our fault that you came . 
We asked you to come through Mr. Harlow , '' rejoined the other , hurriedly . 
And Mr. Henshaw was that his name ? was so kind in every way . 
Again Billy raised a protesting hand but the little woman in the opposite chair hurried on . 
There was still more , evidently , that she wished to say . 
I hope Mr. Henshaw did not feel too disappointed about the Lowestoft . 
We didn't want to let it go if we could help it and we hope now to keep it . 
'' Of course , '' murmured Billy , sympathetically . 
My daughter knew , you see , how much I have always thought of it , and she was determined that I should not give it up . 
She said I should have that much left , anyway . 
You see my daughter is very unreconciled , still , to things as they are and no wonder , perhaps . 
They are so different from what they were ! '' Her voice broke a little . 
Of course , '' said Billy again , and this time the words were tinged with impatient indignation . 
We shall get along very well , I am sure . 
My daughter has still another pupil . 
She will be home soon to tell you herself , perhaps . 
And may I leave these , please ? '' she added , hurriedly unpinning the bunch of white carnations from her coat . 
It seems a pity to let them wilt , when you can put them in water right here . 
Oh , oh , how lovely ! '' breathed Mrs. Greggory , her face deep in the feathery bed of sweetness . 
Before she could half say Thank you , '' however ? she found herself alone . 
CHAPTER XIX ALICE GREGGORY Christmas came and went and in a flurry of snow and sleet January arrived . 
The holidays over , matters and things seemed to settle down to the winter routine . 
Obviously , then , indeed , there was nothing for Bertram Henshaw to do but to begin the new portrait . 
And he began it though still , it must be confessed , with inward questionings . 
It's all right , '' he said to Billy then , one evening . 
It's going to be the best , the very best thing I've ever done I think ! by the sketches . 
'' I'm so glad ! '' exclaimed Billy . 
I'm so glad ! '' The repetition was so vehement that it sounded almost as if she were trying to convince herself as well as Bertram of something that was not true . 
Very sternly these days Billy reminded herself of what Kate had said about Bertram's belonging first to his Art . 
She thought with mortification , too , that it did look as if she were not the proper wife for an artist if she were going to feel like this always . 
Very resolutely , then , Billy turned to her music . 
Christmas being over , Mr. Arkwright had been to the house several times . 
He had changed some of the words and she had improved the melody . 
This friend was a girl whom Billy had known at school . 
As it happened , business did not take quite so long as she had expected , and half past eleven found her well on her way to Miss Henderson's home . 
Why , what '' she began under her breath then suddenly she understood . 
A world famous pianist was to play with the Symphony Orchestra that afternoon . 
This must be the line of patient waiters for the twenty five cent balcony seats that Mr. Arkwright had told about . 
With sympathetic , interested eyes , then , Billy stepped one side to watch the line , for a moment . 
But it was out of the question , of course . 
There was only one seat , and there were three girls , besides all those others . 
With a sigh , then , Billy turned her eyes back to those others those many others that made up the long line stretching its weary length up the Avenue . 
Some in the line shuffled restlessly some stood rigidly quiet . 
One had brought a camp stool many were seated on the steps . 
Beyond , where the line passed an open lot , a wooden fence afforded a convenient prop . 
One read a book , another a paper . 
Three were studying what was probably the score of the symphony or of the concerto they expected to hear that afternoon . 
A few did not appear to mind the biting wind , but most of them , by turned up coat collars or bent heads , testified to the contrary . 
Many of the faces were youthful , happy , and alert with anticipation but others carried a wistfulness and a weariness that made Billy's heart ache . 
Her eyes , indeed , filled with quick tears . 
Miss Greggory ! '' she exclaimed , when she reached the girl . 
Are you ill ? '' For a brief second only dazed questioning stared from the girl's blue gray eyes . 
Billy knew when the recognition came , for she saw the painful color stain the white face red . 
I am not ill , Miss Neilson , '' said the girl , coldly . 
But you look so tired out ! '' I have been standing here some time that is all . 
'' Billy threw a hurried glance down the far reaching line that she knew had formed since the girl's two tired feet had taken their first position . 
But you must have come so early ! It isn't twelve o'clock yet , '' she faltered . 
A slight smile curved Alice Greggory's lips . 
Yes , it was early , '' she rejoined a little bitterly but it had to be , you know . 
I wanted to hear the music and with this soloist , and this weather , I knew that many others would want to hear the music , too . 
Miss Greggory's thin shoulders rose and fell in an expressive shrug . 
'' Billy gave a dismayed cry . 
'' Miss Greggory shook her head . 
It is nothing , really , '' she insisted . 
It is only I didn't happen to feel like eating much breakfast this morning and that , with no luncheon '' She let a gesture finish her sentence . 
No luncheon ! Why oh , you couldn't leave your place , of course , '' frowned Billy . 
No , and'' Alice Greggory lifted her head a little proudly I do not care to eat here . 
'' Her scornful eyes were on one of the pieces of pie down the line no longer a triangle . 
Of course not , '' agreed Billy , promptly . 
She paused , frowned , and bit her lip . 
There ! the very thing , '' she exulted . 
You shall have my ticket this afternoon , Miss Greggory , then you won't have to stay here another minute . 
Meanwhile , there is an excellent restaurant '' Thank you no . 
I couldn't do that , '' cut in the other , sharply , but in a low voice . 
But you'll take my ticket , '' begged Billy . 
Miss Greggory shook her head . 
'' But I want you to , please . 
I shall be very unhappy if you don't , '' grieved Billy . 
The other made a peremptory gesture . 
I should be very unhappy if I did , '' she said with cold emphasis . 
You are very kind , but there is nothing you can do nothing . 
Billy's head was lifted now . 
Her eyes were no longer pleading . 
Her round little chin looked square and determined . 
If you simply will not take my ticket this afternoon , you must do this . 
Go to some restaurant near here and get a good luncheon something that will sustain you . 
I will take your place here . 
'' Miss Neilson ! '' Billy smiled radiantly . 
You will stand here ? '' Certainly I will keep your place . 
'' Billy spoke with a smiling indifference that was meant to convey the impression that standing in line for a twenty five cent seat was a daily habit of hers . 
There's a restaurant only a little way right down there , '' she finished . 
And before the dazed Alice Greggory knew quite what was happening she found herself outside the line , and the other in her place . 
use actual force to drag the owner of that chin out of the line , she bowed her head in acquiescence . 
Well , then I will , long enough for some coffee and maybe a sandwich . 
And thank you , '' she choked , as she turned and hurried away . 
The Opera House was only a short distance up the Avenue . 
Doubtless he was on his way there now . 
He was very near by this time , and Billy held her breath suspended . 
The next moment he was at her side and his dumfounded but softly breathed Billy ! '' was in her ears . 
Billy bubbled into low laughter there were such a lot of funny situations in the world , and of them all this one was about the drollest , she thought . 
Yes , I know , '' she gurgled . 
You don't have to say it your face is saying even more than your tongue could ! This is just for a girl I know . 
He looked as if he were meditating picking Billy up and walking off with her . 
As for the cold I'm as warm as toast . 
It won't be long , anyway she's just gone to get something to eat . 
Then I'm going to May Henderson's for luncheon . 
'' Bertram sighed impatiently and opened his lips only to close them with the words unsaid . 
As Bertram could see , however , the man was not reading a word he was too acutely conscious of the handsome young woman in the long sealskin coat behind him . 
Billy was already the cynosure of dozens of eyes , and Bertram knew that his own arrival on the scene had not lessened the interest of the owners of those eyes . 
He only hoped devoutly that no one in the line knew him ar Billy , and that no one quite knew what had happened . 
'' He shivered at the thought . 
Are you cold ? '' worried Billy . 
If you are , don't stand here , please ! '' He shook his head silently . 
His eyes were searching the street for the only one whose coming could bring him relief . 
It must have been but a coffee and sandwich luncheon for the girl , for soon she came . 
The man surmised that it was she , as soon as he saw her , and stepped back at once . 
He had no wish for introductions . 
A moment later the girl was in Billy's place , and Billy herself was at his side . 
That was Alice Greggory , Bertram , '' she told him , as they walked on swiftly and Bertram , she was actually almost crying when she took my place . 
'' Humph ! Well , I should think she'd better be , '' growled Bertram , perversely . 
Pooh ! It didn't hurt me any , dearie , '' laughed Billy with a conciliatory pat on his arm as they turned down the street upon which her friend lived . 
And now can you come in and see May a minute ? '' I'm afraid not , '' regretted Bertram . 
I wish I could , but I'm busier than busy to day and I was supposed to be already late when I saw you . 
Jove , Billy , I just couldn't believe my eyes ! '' You looked it , '' twinkled Billy . 
But Billy only laughed again . 
CHAPTER XX ARKWRIGHT TELLS A STORY Arkwright called Monday afternoon by appointment and together he and Billy put the finishing touches to the new song . 
You knew the girl , of course I think you said you knew the girl , '' ventured Arkwright . 
I met her with Uncle William first , over a Lowestoft teapot . 
Maybe you'd like to know how I met her , '' smiled Billy . 
Alice Greggory ? '' Arkwright's eyes showed a sudden interest . 
I used to know an Alice Greggory , but it isn't the same one , probably . 
Her mother was a cripple . 
'' Billy gave a little cry . 
Why , it is it must be ! My Alice Greggory's mother is a cripple . 
Oh , do you know them , really ? '' Well , it does look like it , '' rejoined Arkwright , showing even deeper interest . 
I haven't seen them for four or five years . 
They used to live in our town . 
The mother was a little sweet faced woman with young eyes and prematurely white hair . 
'' That describes my Mrs. Greggory exactly , '' cried Billy's eager voice . 
And the daughter ? '' Alice ? Why as I said , it's been four years since I've seen her . 
'' A touch of constraint had come into Arkwright's voice which Billy's keen ear was quick to detect . 
She was nineteen then and very pretty . 
'' About my height , and with light brown hair and big blue gray eyes that look steely cold when she's angry ? '' questioned Billy . 
I reckon that's about it , '' acknowledged the man , with a faint smile . 
Then they are the ones , '' declared the girl , plainly excited . 
Isn't that splendid ? Now we can know them , and perhaps do something for them . 
Well , I can try , '' he offered . 
To begin with , they are Judge Greggory's widow and daughter . 
They belong to fine families on both sides , and they used to be well off really wealthy , for a small town . 
That was eight years ago . 
Things went from bad to worse then , until there was almost nothing left . 
'' I knew there was some such story as that back of them , '' declared Billy . 
But how do you suppose they came here ? '' To get away from everybody , I suspect , '' replied Arkwright . 
That would be like them . 
They were very proud and it isn't easy , you know , to be nobody where you've been somebody . 
It doesn't hurt quite so hard to be nobody where you've never been anything but nobody . 
'' I suppose so , '' sighed Billy . 
Still they must have had friends . 
The Greggorys were that kind . 
You see , they didn't want that pity . 
It must have been hard , indeed , '' murmured Aunt Hannah with a sigh , as she set down her teacup . 
It was , '' nodded Arkwright . 
Of course Mrs. Greggory , with her crippled foot , could do nothing to bring in any money except to sew a little . 
It all depended on Alice and when matters got to their worst she began to teach . 
Under this last straw their courage broke utterly . 
'' Why , the poor dears ! '' cried Billy . 
How they must have suffered ! But things will be different now . 
You'll go to see them , of course , and '' At the look that came into Arkwright's face , she stopped in surprise . 
You forget they wouldn't wish to see me , '' demurred the man . 
And again Billy noticed the odd constraint in his voice . 
But they wouldn't mind you here , '' argued Billy . 
In fact , I'm sure they'd refuse entirely to see me . 
'' Billy's eyes grew determined . 
But they can't refuse if I bring about a meeting just casually , you know , '' she challenged . 
Well , I won't pretend to say as to the consequences of that , '' he rejoined , rising to his feet but they might be disastrous . 
She made a quick shift , therefore , to another phase of the matter . 
'' Oh , I wish it might , '' sighed Billy . 
Then you can tell them , '' he finished a little stiffly . 
Yes or you , '' nodded Billy , lightly . 
And because she began at once to speak of something else , the first part of her sentence passed without comment . 
The door had scarcely closed behind Arkwright when Billy turned to Aunt Hannah a beaming face . 
'' Why , no , dear I didn't see anything unusual , '' murmured the elder lady . 
And I'm going to be the fairy godmother that straightens everything all out , too . 
See if I'm not ! They'd make a splendid couple , Aunt Hannah . 
I'm going right down there to morrow . 
I'm just going down to get acquainted with the Greggorys that's all . 
I hope I'll find out that she's really good at teaching , I mean the daughter , '' resumed Billy , after a moment's pause . 
If she is , there's one thing I can do to help , anyhow . 
I can get some of Marie's old pupils for her . 
Anyhow , I'm going down to begin operations to morrow . 
'' CHAPTER XXI A MATTER OF STRAIGHT BUSINESS True to her assertion , Billy went down to the Greggorys' the next day . 
This time she did not take Rosa with her . 
Even Aunt Hannah conceded that it would not be necessary . 
She had not been gone ten minutes , however , when the telephone bell rang , and Rosa came to say that Mr. Bertram Henshaw wanted to speak with Mrs. Stetson . 
Rosa says that Billy's not there , '' called Bertram's aggrieved voice , when Aunt Hannah had said , Good morning , my boy . 
'' Dear me , no , Bertram . 
She's in a fever of excitement this morning . 
She'll probably tell you all about it when you come out here to night . 
You are coming out to night , aren't you ? '' Yes oh , yes ! But what is it ? Where's she gone ? '' Aunt Hannah laughed softly . 
Well , she's gone down to the Greggorys' . 
'' Why , Aunt Hannah , what do you mean ? '' Bertram's voice was not quite pleased . 
Oh , she'll tell you . 
It's only that the Greggorys have turned out to be old friends of Mr. Arkwright's . 
'' Friends of Arkwright's ! '' Bertram's voice was decidedly displeased now . 
Yes and there's quite a story to it all , as well . 
Billy is wildly excited , as you'd know she would be . 
You'll hear all about it to night , of course . 
'' Yes , of course , '' echoed Bertram . 
But there was no ring of enthusiasm in his voice , neither then , nor when he said good by a moment later . 
Billy , meanwhile , on her way to the Greggory home , was , as Aunt Hannah had said , wildly excited . 
She had not forgotten that Arkwright had told her of their hatred of pity . 
Just what would be her method of procedure this first morning , Billy had not determined . 
The pretty potted azalea in her hand would be excuse for her entrance into the room . 
After that , circumstances must decide for themselves . 
Mrs. Greggory was found to be alone at home as before , and Billy was glad . 
She would rather begin with one than two , she thought . 
The little woman greeted her cordially , gave misty eyed thanks for the beautiful plant , and also for Billy's kind thoughtfulness Friday afternoon . 
My daughter is studying even while she is teaching . 
She hopes to train herself for an accompanist , and for a teacher . 
She does not aspire to concert solo work . 
'' But she is probably very good at teaching . 
'' Billy hesitated a little . 
She has the best of recommendations . 
'' A little proudly Mrs. Greggory gave the names of two Boston pianists names that would carry weight anywhere . 
She did not know until that moment how she had worried for fear she could not , conscientiously , recommend this Alice Greggory . 
Of course , '' resumed the mother , Alice's pupils are few , and they pay low prices but she is gaining . 
She goes to the houses , of course . 
She herself practises two hours a day at a house up on Pinckney Street . 
She gives lessons to a little girl in return . 
'' I see , '' nodded Billy , brightly and I've been thinking , Mrs. Greggory maybe I know of some pupils she could get . 
I have a friend who has just given hers up , owing to her marriage . 
Billy flushed and bit her lip . 
She was disturbed and disappointed . 
She did not particularly wish to see Alice Greggory just then . 
She wished even less to see her when she noted the swift change that came to the girl's face at sight of herself . 
Oh ! Why good morning , Miss Neilson , '' murmured Miss Greggory with a smile so forced that her mother hurriedly looked to the azalea in search of a possible peacemaker . 
My dear , see , '' she stammered , what Miss Neilson has brought me . 
And it's so full of blossoms , too ! And she says it'll remain so for a long , long time if we'll only keep it wet . 
'' Alice Greggory murmured a low something a something that she tried , evidently , very hard to make politely appropriate and appreciative . 
My daughter is really ill this morning . 
Of course she took cold standing all those hours in that horrid wind , Friday ! '' cried Billy , indignantly . 
A quick red flew to Alice Greggory's face . 
Billy saw it at once and fervently wished she had spoken of anything but that Friday afternoon . 
It looked almost as if she were reminding them of what she had done that day . 
In her confusion , and in her anxiety to say something anything that would get their minds off that idea she uttered now the first words that came into her head . 
As it happened , they were the last words that sober second thought would have told her to say . 
Never mind , Mrs. Greggory . 
You have no idea how much good it will do her ! '' Alice Greggory got suddenly to her feet . 
Her face was very white now . 
Her eyes had the steely coldness that Billy knew so well . 
Her voice , when she spoke , was low and sternly controlled . 
Miss Neilson , you will think me rude , of course , especially after your great kindness to me the other day but I can't help it . 
It seems to me best to speak now before it goes any further . 
'' Alice , dear , '' remonstrated Mrs. Greggory , extending a frightened hand . 
I'm sure mother agrees with me that it is best , for the present , that we keep quite to ourselves . 
'' Oh , Alice , Alice , '' began the little mother , in dismay but a rippling laugh from their visitor brought an angry flush even to her gentle face . 
Billy understood the flush , and struggled for self control . 
Please please , forgive me ! '' she choked . 
But you see you couldn't , of course , know that Mary Jane and Peggy aren't girls . 
They're just a man and an automobile ! '' An unwilling smile trembled on Alice Greggory's lips but she still stood her ground . 
After all , girls , or men and automobiles , Miss Neilson it makes little difference . 
And it's not so long that we've been objects of charity that we quite really enjoy it yet . 
'' There was a moment's hush . 
Billy's eyes had filled with tears . 
I never even thought charity , '' said Billy , so gently that a faint red stole into the white cheeks opposite . 
It's all my foolish pride , of course . 
It's only that I was thinking how dearly I would love to meet girls again just as girls ! But I no longer have any business with pride , of course . 
I shall be pleased , I'm sure , '' she went on dully , to accept anything you may do for us , from automobile rides to to red flannel petticoats . 
'' Billy almost but not quite laughed . 
Still , the laugh would have been near to a sob , had it been given . 
And it was because Billy did know her story that she did not make the mistake now of offering pity . 
It's a matter of straight business . 
Your mother tells me you play accompaniments . 
Now a girls' club , of which I am a member , is getting up an operetta for charity , and we need an accompanist . 
There is no one in the club who is able , and at the same time willing , to spend the amount of time necessary for practice and rehearsals . 
So we had decided to hire one outside , and I have been given the task of finding one . 
It has occurred to me that perhaps you would be willing to undertake it for us . 
Despair and lassitude fell away from Alice Greggory almost like a garment . 
Her countenance became alert and interested . 
Indeed I would ! I should be glad to do it . 
I could come at ten in the morning for an hour , or at three in the afternoon for two hours or more , '' replied Miss Greggory , after a moment's hesitation . 
Suppose we call it in the afternoon , then , '' smiled Billy , as she rose to her feet . 
And now I must go and here's my address , '' she finished , taking out her card and laying it on the table near her . 
For reasons of her own Billy went away that morning without saying anything more about the proposed new pupils . 
On the whole , Billy felt well pleased with her morning's work . 
To Aunt Hannah , upon her return , she expressed herself thus It's splendid even better than I hoped . 
I shall have a chance to morrow , of course , to see for myself just how well she plays , and all that . 
I'm pretty sure , though , from what I hear , that that part will be all right . 
Then the operetta will give us a chance to see a good deal of her , and to bring about a natural meeting between her and Mary Jane . 
Oh , Aunt Hannah , I couldn't have planned it better and there the whole thing just tumbled into my hands ! I knew it had the minute I remembered about the operetta . 
And I'm so glad I did ! Oh , Aunt Hannah , it's coming out lovely ! I know it is . 
'' CHAPTER XXII PLANS AND PLOTTINGS To Billy , Alice Greggory's first visit to Hillside was in every way a delight and a satisfaction . 
To Alice , it was even more than that . 
No wonder that under the cheery friendliness of it all , Alice Greggory's cold reserve vanished , and that in its place came something very like her old ease and charm of manner . 
By the time Aunt Hannah according to previous agreement came into the room , the two girls were laughing and chatting over the operetta as if they had known each other for years . 
Much to Billy's delight , Alice Greggory , as a musician , proved to be eminently satisfactory . 
She was quick at sight reading , and accurate . 
She played easily , and with good expression . 
It was after the music for the operetta had been well practised and discussed that Alice Greggory chanced to see one of Billy's own songs lying near her . 
With a pleased smile she picked it up . 
Oh , you know this , too ! '' she cried . 
I played it for a lady only the other day . 
It's so pretty , I think all of hers are , that I have seen . 
Billy Neilson is a girl , you know , they say , in spite of She stopped abruptly . 
Her eyes grew wide and questioning . 
Miss Neilson it can't be you don't mean is your name it is you ! '' she finished joyously , as the telltale color dyed Billy's face . 
The next moment her own cheeks burned scarlet . 
And to think of my letting you stand in line for a twenty five cent admission ! '' she scorned . 
Nonsense ! '' laughed Billy . 
It didn't hurt me any more than it did you . 
Come ! '' in looking about for a quick something to take her guest's attention , Billy's eyes fell on the manuscript copy of her new song , bearing Arkwright's name . 
Yielding to a daring impulse , she drew it hastily forward . 
Here's a new one a brand new one , not even printed yet . 
Don't you think the words are pretty ? '' she asked . 
As she had hoped , Alice Greggory's eyes , after they had glanced half way through the first page , sought the name at the left side below the title . 
Words by M. J. '' there was a visible start , and a pause before the Arkwright' '' was uttered in a slightly different tone . 
Billy noted both the start and the pause and gloried in them . 
Yes the words are by M. J. Arkwright , '' she said with smooth unconcern , but with a covert glance at the other's face . 
Ever hear of him ? '' Alice Greggory gave a short little laugh . 
Alice Greggory turned then to the music . 
After that , Rosa brought in tea and toast , and the little frosted cakes that were always such a favorite with Billy's guests . 
Then Alice Greggory said good by her eyes full of tears that Billy pretended not to see . 
There ! '' breathed Billy , as soon as she had Aunt Hannah to herself again . 
'' Yes , of course . 
Dear child ! I hope he can , '' murmured Aunt Hannah . 
But , indeed , my dear , I didn't see anything stiff , or or repelling about Miss Greggory , as you said there was . 
'' There wasn't to day , '' smiled Billy . 
It was the next day that Cyril and Marie came home from their honeymoon . 
They went directly to their pretty little apartment on Beacon Street , Brookline , within easy walking distance of Billy's own cozy home . 
Cyril intended to build in a year or two . 
'' In it Marie had a spotlessly white kitchen where she might make puddings to her heart's content . 
Marie had again according to Bertram a visiting acquaintance with a maid . 
Marie had not arrived at this to her , delightful arrangement of a visiting acquaintance'' without some opposition from her friends . 
Even Billy had stood somewhat aghast . 
But , my dear , won't it be hard for you , to do so much ? '' she argued one day . 
You know you aren't very strong . 
'' I know but it won't be hard , as I've planned it , '' replied Marie , specially when I've been longing for years to do this very thing . 
The bride and groom , as was proper , were , soon after their arrival , invited to dine at both William's and Billy's . 
Though it is safe to say it was not far different from the one Cyril used in his thoughts . 
Bertram himself , these days , was more than busy . 
Naturally , therefore , his time was well occupied . 
Naturally , too , Billy , knowing this , lashed herself more sternly than ever into a daily reminder of Kate's assertion that he belonged first to his Art . 
That these tactics on her part were beginning to fill her lover with vague alarm and a very definite unrest , she did not once suspect . 
Eagerly , therefore , even with conscientious delight she welcomed the new song words that Arkwright brought they would give her something else to take up her time and attention . 
The first rehearsal for the operetta came on Wednesday evening . 
There would be another on Thursday afternoon . 
Such being the case , Billy had a plan she meant to carry out . 
She was highly pleased , therefore , when Thursday morning came , and everything , apparently , was working exactly to her mind . 
She had an appointment at quarter of eleven with the leading tenor , and another later with the alto . 
'' But I've just got up , '' remonstrated Miss Greggory . 
I know you have , '' smiled Billy but you were very late to bed last night , and you've got a hard day before you . 
I insist upon your resting . 
You will be absolutely undisturbed there , and you must shut the door and not come down stairs till I send for you . 
Mr. Johnson isn't due till quarter of eleven , is he ? '' N no . 
'' Then come with me , '' directed Billy , leading the way up stairs . 
There , now , don't come down till I call you , '' she went on , when they had reached the little room at the end of the hall . 
I'm going to leave Aunt Hannah's door open , so you'll have good air she isn't in there . 
Then , like the guilty conspirator she was , she went down stairs to wait for Arkwright . 
It was a fine plan . 
Arkwright was due at ten o'clock Billy had specially asked him to come at that hour . 
And then What happened next was , in Billy's mind , very vague , but very attractive as a nucleus for one's thoughts , nevertheless . 
In Billy's case the but'' had to do with things so apparently unrelated as were Aunt Hannah's clock and a negro's coal wagon . 
It was almost half past ten when Arkwright finally rang the bell at Hillside . 
Billy greeted him so eagerly , and at the same time with such evident disappointment at his late arrival , that Arkwright's heart sang with joy . 
No wonder that Arkwright , noting the sparkle in her eye , the agitation in her manner , and the embarrassed red in her cheek , took new courage . 
Then it was that the tremulous Mr. Arkwright ! '' fell from her lips . 
Billy and Arkwright had turned at her first words . 
At her last , Arkwright , with a half despairing , half reproachful glance at Billy , stepped forward . 
Miss Greggory ! you are Miss Alice Greggory , I am sure , '' he said pleasantly . 
At the first opportunity Billy murmured a hasty excuse and left the room . 
To Aunt Hannah she flew with a woebegone face . 
So down she hurried , half awake , and spoiled all my plans . 
Now she's sitting in there with him , in chairs the length of the room apart , discussing the snowstorm last night or the moonrise this morning or some other such silly thing . 
Yet there was a little . 
Friends are still trying to clear his name , and I believe are meeting with increasing success . 
I don't know , of course , whether he'll say anything about it to day now . 
To think I had to be right round under foot like that when they met ! '' went on Billy , indignantly . 
I shouldn't have been , in a minute more , though . 
And there's the doorbell , and the tenor , I suppose so of course it's all over now , '' she sighed , rising to go down stairs . 
As it chanced , however , it was not the tenor , but a message from him a message that brought dire consternation to the Chairman of the Committee of Arrangements . 
The tenor had thrown up his part . 
He could not take it it was too difficult . 
He felt that this should be told at once rather than to worry along for another week or two , and then give up . 
So he had told it . 
But what shall we do , Miss Greggory ? '' appealed Billy . 
It is a hard part , you know but if Mr. Tobey can't take it , I don't know who can . 
We don't want to hire a singer for it , if we can help it . 
The profits are to go to the Home for Crippled Children , you know , '' she explained , turning to Arkwright , and we decided to hire only the accompanist . 
'' An odd expression flitted across Miss Greggory's face . 
Mr. Arkwright used to sing tenor , '' she observed quietly . 
As if he didn't now a perfectly glorious tenor , '' retorted Billy . 
But as if he would take this ! '' For only a brief moment did Arkwright hesitate then blandly he suggested Suppose you try him , and see . 
'' Billy sat suddenly erect . 
Would you , really ? Could you take the time , and all ? '' she cried . 
Yes , I think I would under the circumstances , '' he smiled . 
I think I could , too , though I might not be able to attend all the rehearsals . 
'' Thank you ! Then it's all beautifully settled , '' rejoiced Billy , with a happy sigh and unconsciously she gave Alice Greggory's hand near her a little pat . 
In Billy's mind the circumstances'' of Arkwright's acceptance of the part were Alice Greggory and her position as accompanist , of course . 
CHAPTER XXIII THE CAUSE AND BERTRAM February came The operetta , for which Billy was working so hard , was to be given the twentieth . 
The Art Exhibition , for which Bertram was preparing his four pictures , was to open the sixteenth , with a private view for specially invited friends the evening before . 
On the eleventh day of February Mrs. Greggory and her daughter arrived at Hillside for a ten days' visit . 
Not until after a great deal of pleading and argument , however , had Billy been able to bring this about . 
But , my dears , both of you , '' Billy had at last said to them just listen . 
We shall have numberless rehearsals during those last ten days before the thing comes off . 
They will be at all hours , and of all lengths . 
You , Miss Greggory , will have to be on hand for them all , of course , and will have to stay all night several times , probably . 
You , Mrs. Greggory , ought not to be alone down here . 
'' But my pupils , '' Alice Greggory had demurred . 
Meanwhile your mother will be having a lovely time teaching Aunt Hannah how to knit a new shawl so you won't have to be worrying about her . 
'' After all , it had been the great good and pleasure which the visit would bring to Mrs. Greggory that had been the final straw to tip the scales . 
On the eleventh of February , therefore , in the company of the once scorned Peggy and Mary Jane , '' Alice Greggory and her mother had arrived at Hillside . 
Ever since the first meeting of Alice Greggory and Arkwright , Billy had been sorely troubled by the conduct of the two young people . 
She had , as she mournfully told herself , been able to make nothing of it . 
The pair called each other , ceremoniously , Mr. Arkwright , '' and Miss Greggory'' but then , that , of course , did not signify , '' Billy declared to herself . 
I suppose you don't ever call him Mary Jane , '' she said to the girl , a little mischievously , one day . 
Mary Jane' ? Mr. Arkwright ? No , I don't , '' rejoined Miss Greggory , with an odd smile . 
Then , after a moment , she added I believe his brothers and sisters used to , however . 
'' Yes , I know , '' laughed Billy . 
We thought he was a real Mary Jane , once . 
'' And she told the story of his arrival . 
So you see , '' she finished , when Alice Greggory had done laughing over the tale , he always will be Mary Jane' to us . 
By the way , what is his name ? '' Miss Greggory looked up in surprise . 
Why , it's '' She stopped short , her eyes questioning . 
Why , hasn't he ever told you ? '' she queried . 
No. He told us to guess it , and we have guessed everything we can think of , even up to Methuselah John' but he says we haven't hit it yet . 
'' Methuselah John , indeed ! '' laughed the other , merrily . 
Well , I'm sure that's a nice , solid name , '' defended Billy , her chin still at a challenging tilt . 
If it isn't Methuselah John , what is it , then ? '' But Alice Greggory shook her head . 
She , too , it seemed , could be firm , on occasion . 
And though she smiled brightly , all she would say , was If he hasn't told you , I sha'n't . 
You'll have to go to him . 
'' Oh , well , I can still call him Mary Jane , '' retorted Billy , with airy disdain . 
It occurred to her then , one day , that perhaps , after all , they were not lovers , and did not wish to be reunited . 
At this disquieting thought Billy decided , suddenly , to go almost to headquarters . 
She would speak to Mrs. Greggory if ever the opportunity offered . 
They used to know each other long ago , Mr. Arkwright tells me , '' Billy began warily . 
'' The quietly polite monosyllable was not very encouraging , to be sure but Billy , secure in her conviction that her cause was a righteous one , refused to be daunted . 
I think it was so romantic their running across each other like this , Mrs. Greggory , '' she murmured . 
And there was a romance , wasn't there ? I have just felt in my bones that there was a romance ! '' Billy held her breath . 
It was what she had meant to say , but now that she had said it , the words seemed very fearsome indeed to say to Mrs. Greggory . 
Then Mrs. Greggory spoke slowly , a little sadly . 
I don't mind saying to you that I did hope , once , that there would be a romance there . 
They were the best of friends , and they were well suited to each other in tastes and temperament . 
when '' Mrs. Greggory paused and wet her lips . 
Her voice , when she resumed , carried the stern note so familiar to Billy in her first acquaintance with this woman and her daughter . 
As I presume Mr. Arkwright has told you , we have met with many changes in our life changes which necessitated a new home and a new mode of living . 
Naturally , under those circumstances , old friends and old romances must change , too . 
'' But , Mrs. Greggory , '' stammered Billy , I'm sure Mr. Arkwright would want '' An up lifted hand silenced her peremptorily . 
No , indeed , of course not ! '' cried Billy but her heart rejoiced . 
She understood it all now . 
Arkwright and Alice Greggory had been almost lovers when the charges against the Judge's honor had plunged the family into despairing humiliation . 
Thus had come the breaking of whatever tie there was between Alice Greggory and Arkwright . 
Not to have broken it would have meant , for Alice , the placing of herself in a position where , sometime , apologies must be made for her father . 
This was what Mrs. Greggory had meant and again , as Billy thought of it , Billy's heart rejoiced . 
It was , instead , a shining beacon in letters of flame guiding straight to victory . 
Some three or four miles away down Beacon Street at that moment Bertram Henshaw , in the Strata , was , as it happened , not falling asleep . 
He was lying broadly and unhappily awake Bertram very frequently lay broadly and unhappily awake these days or rather nights . 
He told himself , on these occasions , that it was perfectly natural indeed it was ! that Billy should be with Arkwright and his friends , the Greggorys , so much . 
There were the new songs , and the operetta with its rehearsals as a cause for it all . 
With Billy's behavior toward himself , Bertram could find no fault . 
She was always her sweet , loyal , lovable self , eager to hear of his work , earnestly solicitous that it should be a success . 
Actually , Billy , it's worse than Marie's wedding , '' he declared , Then it was tablecloths and napkins that could be dumped in a chair . 
Now it's a girl who wants to rehearse , or a woman that wants a different wig , or a telephone message that the sopranos have quarrelled again . 
I loathe that operetta ! '' Billy laughed , but she frowned , too . 
I know , dear I don't like that part . 
It's going to be a great success I can say that because my part is only a small one , you know . 
We shall make lots of money for the Home , too , I'm sure . 
'' But you're wearing yourself all out with it , dear , '' scowled Bertram . 
Nonsense ! I like it besides , when I'm doing this I'm not telephoning you to come and amuse me . 
Just think what a lot of extra time you have for your work ! '' Don't want it , '' avowed Bertram . 
But the work may , '' retorted Billy , showing all her dimples . 
Never mind , though it'll all be over after the twentieth . 
This isn't an understudy like Marie's wedding , you know , '' she finished demurely . 
Thank heaven for that ! '' Bertram had breathed fervently . 
But even as he said the words he grew sick with fear . 
As Bertram , in his morbid fancy pictured it , he realized only too well what that awakening would mean to himself . 
CHAPTER XXIV THE ARTIST AND HIS ART The private view of the paintings and drawings of the Brush and Pencil Club on the evening of the fifteenth was a great success . 
Society sent its fairest women in frocks that were pictures in themselves . 
Art sent its severest critics and its most ardent devotees . 
The Press sent reporters that the World might know what Art and Society were doing , and how they did it . 
Before the canvases signed with Bertram Henshaw's name there was always to be found an admiring group representing both Art and Society with the Press on the outskirts to report . 
William Henshaw , coming unobserved upon one such group , paused a moment to smile at the various more or less disconnected comments . 
'' Isn't that just too sweet ! '' Now for realism , I consider Henshaw '' There aren't many with his sensitive , brilliant touch . 
'' Oh , what a pretty picture ! '' William moved on then . 
Billy was rapturously proud of Bertram that evening . 
He was , of course , the centre of congratulations and hearty praise . 
At his side , Billy , with sparkling eyes , welcomed each smiling congratulation and gloried in every commendatory word she heard . 
Oh , Bertram , isn't it splendid ! I'm so proud of you , '' she whispered softly , when a moment's lull gave her opportunity . 
They're all words , words , idle words , '' he laughed but his eyes shone . 
Just as if they weren't all true ! '' she bridled , turning to greet William , who came up at that moment . 
Isn't it fine , Uncle William ? '' she beamed . 
And aren't we proud of him ? '' We are , indeed , '' smiled the man . 
But if you and Bertram want to get the real opinion of this crowd , you should go and stand near one of his pictures five minutes . 
As a sort of crazy quilt criticism it can't be beat . 
'' I know , '' laughed Bertram . 
I've done it , in days long gone . 
'' Bertram , not really ? '' cried Billy . 
What didn't I hear ? '' laughed her lover . 
But I didn't do it but once or twice . 
I lost my head one day and began to argue the question of perspective with a couple of old codgers who were criticizing a bit of foreshortening that was my special pet . 
I forgot my goggles and sailed in . 
The game was up then , of course and I never put them on again . 
But it was worth a farm to see their faces when I stood discovered' as the stage folk say . 
'' Serves you right , sir listening like that , '' scolded Billy . 
Bertram laughed and shrugged his shoulders . 
Well , it cured me , anyhow . 
I haven't done it since , '' he declared . 
It was some time later , on the way home , that Bertram said It was gratifying , of course , Billy , and I liked it . 
It would be absurd to say I didn't like the many pleasant words of apparently sincere appreciation I heard to night . 
But I couldn't help thinking of the next time always the next time . 
'' The next time ? '' Billy's eyes were slightly puzzled . 
That I exhibit , I mean . 
The Bohemian Ten hold their exhibition next month , you know . 
I shall show just one picture the portrait of Miss Winthrop . 
'' Oh , Bertram ! '' It'll be Oh , Bertram ! then , dear , if it isn't a success , '' he sighed . 
I don't believe you realize yet what that thing is going to mean for me . 
'' Well , I should think I might , '' retorted Billy , a little tremulously , after all I've heard about it . 
I should think everybody knew you were doing it , Bertram . 
I am amazed and a little frightened , I'll admit at the universality of the interest . 
You see , the Winthrops have been pleased to spread it , for one reason or another , and of course many already know of the failures of Anderson and Fullam . 
That's why , if I should fail '' But you aren't going to fail , '' interposed the girl , resolutely . 
No , I know I'm not . 
I only said if , '' fenced the man , his voice not quite steady . 
There isn't going to be any if , '' settled Billy . 
Now tell me , when is the exhibition ? '' March twentieth the private view . 
Mr. Winthrop is not only willing , but anxious , that I show it . 
I wasn't sure that he'd want me to in an exhibition . 
But it seems he does . 
His daughter says he has every confidence in the portrait and wants everybody to see it . 
'' That's where he shows his good sense , '' declared Billy . 
We've had so many , many interruptions , though , that it is surprising how slow it is moving . 
, and in this portrait I'm not painting a stroke without my model before me . 
I mean to take no chances , you see and Miss Winthrop is perfectly willing to give me all the sittings I wish for . 
Of course , if she hadn't changed the pose and costume so many times , it would have been done long ago and she knows it . 
'' Of course she knows it , '' murmured Billy , a little faintly , but with a peculiar intonation in her voice . 
And so you see , '' sighed Bertram , what the twentieth of March is going to mean for me . 
'' It's going to mean a splendid triumph ! '' asserted Billy and this time her voice was not faint , and it carried only a ring of loyal confidence . 
You blessed comforter ! '' murmured Bertram , giving with his eyes the caress that his lips would so much have preferred to give under more propitious circumstances . 
Each afternoon and every evening saw rehearsals in whole , or in parts . 
A friend of the Club president's sister in law a woman whose husband was stage manager of a Boston theatre had consented to come and coach'' the performers . 
Then , on the evening of the nineteenth , came the final dress rehearsal on the stage of the pretty little hall that had been engaged for the performance of the operetta . 
The dress rehearsal , like most of its kind , was , for every one , nothing but a nightmare of discord , discouragement , and disaster . 
Everybody's nerves were on edge , everybody was sure the thing would be a flat failure . 
The chorus sang Oh , be joyful ! '' with dirge like solemnity , and danced as if legs and feet were made of wood . 
The lovers , after the fashion of amateur actors from time immemorial , made love like sticks . 
To Billy , just then , life did not look to be even half worth the living . 
Bad as these things were , however , they were only the intimate , immediate woes . 
Beyond and around them lay others many others . 
It was to be a failure , of course . 
Billy had calmly made up her mind to that , now . 
But then , she was used to failures , she told herself . 
Billy did not mean that any one should know she was crying . 
She supposed that all the performers except herself and the two earth bound fairies by the piano with Alice Greggory were gone . 
For her part , she did not see why they were struggling so hard , anyway . 
Oh , no yes well , maybe I was , a little , '' stammered Billy , trying to speak very unconcernedly . 
How warm it is in here ! Do you think it's going to rain ? that is , outdoors , of course , I mean . 
'' Arkwright dropped into the seat behind Billy and leaned forward , his eyes striving to read the girl's half averted face . 
If Billy had turned , she would have seen that Arkwright's own face showed white and a little drawn looking in the feeble rays from the light by the piano . 
But Billy did not turn . 
She kept her eyes steadily averted and she went on speaking airy , inconsequential words . 
Dear me , if those girls would only pull together ! But then , what's the difference ? I supposed you had gone home long ago , Mr. Arkwright . 
'' Miss Neilson , you are crying ! '' Arkwright's voice was low and vibrant . 
As if anything or anybody in the world could make you cry ! Please you have only to command me , and I will sally forth at once to slay the offender . 
'' His words were light , but his voice still shook with emotion . 
Billy gave an hysterical little giggle . 
Angrily she brushed the persistent tears from her eyes . 
All right , then I'll dub you my Sir Knight , '' she faltered . 
But I'll warn you you'll have your hands full . 
'' Everybody in the operetta ! '' Arkwright did look a little startled , at this wholesale slaughter . 
Did you ever see such an awful , awful thing as that was to night ? '' moaned the girl . 
Oh , so that's what it is ! '' he laughed lightly . 
Then it's only a bogy of fear that I've got to slay , after all and I'll despatch that right now with a single blow . 
Dress rehearsals always go like that to night . 
I've been in a dozen , and I never yet saw one go half decent . 
You poor child , you're worn out and no wonder ! But don't worry another bit about the operetta . 
Now is there anything else I can do for you ? Anything else I can slay ? '' Billy laughed tremulously . 
N no , thank you not that you can slay , I fancy , '' she sighed . 
That is not that you will , '' she amended wistfully , with a sudden remembrance of the Cause , for which he might do so much if he only would . 
Arkwright bent a little nearer . 
His breath stirred the loose , curling hair behind Billy's ear . 
His eyes had flashed into sudden fire . 
But you don't know what I'd do if I could , '' he murmured unsteadily . 
Arkwright answered , too , but not aloud which was wise . 
'' Billy rose to her feet , still wearily . 
She turned and saw his face . 
It was very white so white that her eyes widened in surprised questioning . 
As if answering the unspoken words , the man shook his head . 
I can't , now , of course , '' he said . 
But there is something I want to say a story I want to tell you after to morrow , perhaps . 
Her face , therefore , was a glory of tender sympathy as she reached out her hand in farewell . 
Of course you may , '' she cried . 
Come any time after to morrow night , please , '' she smiled encouragingly , as she turned toward the stage . 
A little more than twenty four hours later , Billy Neilson , in her own room , drew a long breath of relief . 
It was twelve o'clock on the night of the twentieth , and the operetta was over . 
To Billy , life was eminently worth living to night . 
The operetta was , in short , a glorious and gratifying success , both artistically and financially . 
On the whole , life did , indeed , look decidedly worth the living as Billy , with a contented sigh , turned over to go to sleep . 
CHAPTER XXVI ARKWRIGHT TELLS ANOTHER STORY Promptly at the suggested hour on the day after the operetta , Arkwright rang Billy Neilson's doorbell . 
Promptly , too , Billy herself came into the living room to greet him . 
Billy was in white to day a soft , creamy white wool with a touch of black velvet at her throat and in her hair . 
The man thought she had never looked so lovely Arkwright was still under the spell wrought by the soft radiance of Billy's face the two times he had mentioned his story . 
'' Until the night before the operetta Arkwright had been more than doubtful of the way that story would be received , should he ever summon the courage to tell it . 
Since then his fears had been changed to rapturous hopes . 
It was very eagerly , therefore , that he turned now to greet Billy as she came into the room . 
Suppose we don't have any music to day . 
Suppose we give the whole time up to the story , '' she smiled brightly , as she held out her hand . 
Arkwright's heart leaped but almost at once it throbbed with a vague uneasiness . 
He would have preferred to see her blush and be a little shy over that story . 
Still there was a chance , of course , that she did not know what the story was . 
You are very kind , '' he murmured , as he relinquished her fingers and seated himself near her . 
You are sure , then , that you wish to hear the story ? '' Very sure , '' smiled Billy . 
Again he longed to see a little embarrassment in the bright face opposite . 
You want it from the beginning ? '' By all means ! I never dip into books , nor peek at the ending . 
I don't think it's fair to the author . 
'' Then I will , indeed , begin at the beginning , '' smiled Arkwright , for I'm specially anxious that you shall be even more than fair' to me . 
'' His voice shook a little , but he hurried on . 
There's a girl in it a very dear , lovely girl . 
'' Of course if it's a nice story , '' twinkled Billy . 
And there's a man , too . 
It's a love story , you see . 
'' Again of course if it's interesting . 
'' Billy laughed mischievously , but she flushed a little . 
Still , the man doesn't amount to much , after all , perhaps . 
I might as well own up at the beginning I'm the man . 
'' That will do for you to say , as long as you're telling the story , '' smiled Billy . 
We'll let it pass for proper modesty on your part . 
But I shall say the personal touch only adds to the interest . 
'' Arkwright drew in his breath . 
We'll hope it'll really be so , '' he murmured . 
There was a moment's silence . 
Arkwright seemed to be hesitating what to say . 
Well ? '' prompted Billy , with a smile . 
Perhaps on paper but , you see , my story has been lived , so far . 
'' Very well , then what did happen ? '' smiled Billy . 
I was trying to think of the first thing . 
You see it began with a picture , a photograph of the girl . 
I saw it , and wanted it , and '' Arkwright had started to say and took it . 
'' But he stopped with the last two words unsaid . 
It was not time , yet , he deemed , to tell this girl how much that picture had been to him for so many months past . 
He hurried on a little precipitately . 
You see , I had heard about this girl a lot and I liked what I heard . 
'' You mean you didn't know her at the first ? '' Billy's eyes were surprised . 
Billy had supposed that Arkwright had always known Alice Greggory . 
No , I didn't know the girl till afterwards . 
Before that I was always dreaming and wondering what she would be like . 
'' Oh ! '' Billy subsided into her chair , still with the puzzled questioning in her eyes . 
'' Yes ? '' And she was everything and more than I had pictured her . 
'' And you fell in love at once ? '' Billy's voice had grown confident again . 
Oh , I was already in love , '' sighed Arkwright . 
'' Oh h ! '' breathed Billy , sympathetically . 
And the girl ? '' She didn't care or know for a long time . 
I'm not really sure she cares or knows even now . 
'' Arkwright's eyes were wistfully fixed on Billy's face . 
Oh , but you can't tell , always , about girls , '' murmured Billy , hurriedly . 
A faint pink had stolen to her forehead . 
Arkwright saw the color sweep to Billy's forehead , and took sudden courage . 
A tender light came to his eyes . 
The expression on his face was unmistakable . 
Billy , do you mean , really , that there is hope for me ? '' he begged brokenly . 
Billy gave a visible start . 
A quick something like shocked terror came to her eyes . 
Billy was on her feet now , holding up two protesting hands , palms outward . 
She began slowly to back away . 
Her eyes , still fixed on his , carried the shrinking terror of one who sees a horrid vision . 
But you know you must know that I am not yours to win ! '' she reproached him sharply . 
I'm to be Bertram Henshaw's wife . 
'' From Billy's shocked young lips the word dropped with a ringing force that was at once accusatory and prohibitive . 
It was as if , by the mere utterance of the word , wife , she had drawn a sacred circle about her and placed herself in sanctuary . 
From the blazing accusation in her eyes Arkwright fell back . 
Wife ! You are to be Bertram Henshaw's wife ! '' he exclaimed . 
There was no mistaking the amazed incredulity on his face . 
The righteous indignation in her eyes fled , and a terrified appeal took its place . 
You don't mean that you didn't know ? '' she faltered . 
There was a moment's silence . 
A power quite outside herself kept Billy's eyes on Arkwright's face , and forced her to watch the change there from unbelief to belief , and from belief to set misery . 
Billy sank into a low chair . 
Her fingers fluttered nervously to her throat . 
Her piteous , beseeching eyes were on the broad back and bent head of the man before her . 
But I I don't see how you could have helped knowing , '' she stammered at last . 
It's been so so much a matter of course . 
I supposed everybody knew it , '' maintained Billy . 
Perhaps that's just it that it was so much a matter of course , '' rejoined the man . 
You see , I know very few of your friends , anyway who would be apt to mention it to me . 
'' But the announcements oh , you weren't here then , '' moaned Billy . 
But you must have known that that he came here a good deal that we were together so much ! '' To a certain extent , yes , '' sighed Arkwright . 
But I took your friendship with him and his brothers as as a matter of course . 
That was my matter of course , you see , '' he went on bitterly . 
I knew you were Mr. William Henshaw's namesake , and Calderwell had told me the story of your coming to them when you were left alone in the world . 
'' Billy winced and changed color . 
She had noticed the pause , and she knew very well what it was that Calderwell had said to occasion that pause . 
Must always she be reminded that no one expected Bertram Henshaw to love any girl except to paint ? But but Mr. Calderwell must know about the engagement now , '' she stammered . 
Very likely , but I have not happened to hear from him since my arrival in Boston . 
'' There was a long silence , then Arkwright spoke again . 
I think I understand now many things . 
I've been a blind fool . 
I was so intent on my own I've been a blind fool that's all , '' repeated Arkwright , with a break in his voice . 
Billy tried to speak , but instead of words , there came only a choking sob . 
Miss Neilson , don't please , '' he begged . 
There is no need that you should suffer too . 
'' But I am so ashamed that such a thing could happen , '' she faltered . 
I'm sure , some way , I must be to blame . 
I was blind , too . 
I was wrapped up in my own affairs . 
I never even thought to suspect ! I thought of course you knew . 
It was just the music that brought us together , I supposed and you were just like one of the family , anyway . 
I always thought of you as Aunt Hannah's '' She stopped with a vivid blush . 
As Aunt Hannah's niece , Mary Jane , of course , '' supplied Arkwright , bitterly , turning back to his old position . 
And that was my own fault , too . 
My name , Miss Neilson , is Michael Jeremiah , '' he went on wearily , after a moment's hesitation , his voice showing his utter abandonment to despair . 
Naturally , the more determined persistent inquirers were to know the name , the more determined I became that they shouldn't . 
All very silly and very foolish , of course . 
Certainly it seems so now , '' he finished . 
She was trying to find something , anything , to say , when Arkwright began speaking again , still in that dull , hopeless voice that Billy thought would break her heart . 
As for the Mary Jane' that was another foolishness , of course . 
My small brothers and sisters originated it others followed , on occasion , even Calderwell . 
You see what I stooped to do , Miss Neilson , for the chance of meeting and knowing you . 
'' Billy gave a low cry . 
She had suddenly remembered the beginning of Arkwright's story . 
For the first time she realized that he had been talking then about herself , not Alice Greggory . 
But you don't mean that you cared that I was the '' She could not finish . 
Arkwright turned from the mantel with a gesture of utter despair . 
Yes , I cared then . 
I had heard of you . 
I had sung your songs . 
I was determined to meet you . 
So I came and met you . 
After that I was more determined than ever to win you . 
Perhaps you see , now , why I was so blind to to any other possibility . 
But it doesn't do any good to talk like this . 
Only , please , don't blame yourself , '' he begged as he saw her eyes fill with tears . 
The next moment he was gone . 
Billy had turned away and was crying softly , so she did not see him go . 
CHAPTER XXVII THE THING THAT WAS THE TRUTH Bertram called that evening . 
Billy had no story now to tell nothing of the interrupted romance between Alice Greggory and Arkwright . 
Billy carefully , indeed , avoided mentioning Arkwright's name . 
Sweetheart , what is the matter ? '' demanded Bertram resolutely , at last , when his more indirect questions had been evasively turned aside . 
I I want to forget it . 
'' But I want to know so I can forget it , '' persisted Bertram . 
What is it ? Maybe I could help . 
'' She shook her head with a little frightened cry . 
No , no you can't help really . 
'' But , sweetheart , you don't know . 
Won't you tell me about it ? '' Billy looked distressed . 
I can't , dear truly . 
You see , it isn't quite mine to tell . 
'' Not yours ! '' Not entirely . 
'' But it makes you feel bad ? '' Yes very . 
'' Then can't I know that part ? '' Oh , no no , indeed , no ! You see it wouldn't be fair to the other . 
'' Bertram stared a little . 
Then his mouth set into stern lines . 
Billy , what are you talking about ? Seems to me I have a right to know . 
To her mind , a girl who would tell of the unrequited love of a man for herself , was unspeakably base . 
To tell Bertram Arkwright's love story was therefore impossible . 
Yet , in some way , she must set Bertram's mind at rest . 
Dearest , '' she began slowly , her eyes wistfully pleading , just what it is , I can't tell you . 
In a way it's another's secret , and I don't feel that I have the right to tell it . 
It's just something that I learned this afternoon . 
'' But it has made you cry ! '' Yes . 
It made me feel very unhappy . 
'' Then it was something you couldn't help ? '' To Bertram's surprise , the face he was watching so intently flushed scarlet . 
No , I couldn't help it now though I might have once . 
'' Billy spoke this last just above her breath . 
Then she went on , beseechingly Bertram , please , please don't talk of it any more . 
It it's just spoiling our happy evening together ! '' Bertram bit his lip , and drew a long sigh . 
All right , dear you know best , of course since I don't know anything about it , '' he finished a little stiffly . 
Billy began to talk then very brightly of Aunt Hannah and her shawls , and of a visit she had made to Cyril and Marie that morning . 
And , do you know ? Aunt Hannah's clock has done a good turn , at last , and justified its existence . 
Listen , '' she cried gayly . 
Marie had a letter from her mother's Cousin Jane . 
Cousin Jane couldn't sleep nights , because she was always lying awake to find out just what time it was so Marie had written her about Aunt Hannah's clock . 
He , too , would be quite satisfied not to hear the word operetta'' for a year . 
No wonder , therefore , that he smiled , and that the frown disappeared from his brow . 
He thought he saw , ahead , serene , blissful days for Billy and himself . 
As the days , however , began to pass , one by one , Bertram Henshaw found them to be anything but serene and blissful . 
The operetta , with its rehearsals and its interruptions , was gone , certainly but he was becoming seriously troubled about Billy . 
Billy did not act natural . 
Sometimes she seemed like her old self and he breathed more freely , telling himself that his fears were groundless . 
Then would come the haunting shadow to her eyes , the droop to her mouth , and the nervousness to her manner that he so dreaded . 
Worse yet , all this seemed to be connected in some strange way with Arkwright . 
He found this out by accident one day . 
She had been talking and laughing brightly about something , when he chanced to introduce Arkwright's name . 
By the way , where is Mary Jane these days ? '' he asked then . 
I don't know , I'm sure . 
He hasn't been here lately , '' murmured Billy , reaching for a book on the table . 
He had said nothing more at the time , but he had not forgotten . 
He noticed then that never , of her own free will , did she herself mention the man never did she speak of him with the old frank lightness as Mary Jane . 
'' By casual questions asked from time to time , Bertram had learned that Arkwright never came there now , and that the song writing together had been given up . 
Curiously enough , this discovery , which would once have filled Bertram with joy , served now only to deepen his distress . 
That there was anything inconsistent in the fact that he was more frightened now at the man's absence than he had been before at his presence , did not occur to him . 
He knew only that he was frightened , and badly frightened . 
Bertram had not forgotten the evening after the operetta , and Billy's tear stained face on that occasion . 
He dated the whole thing , in fact , from that evening . 
He fell to wondering one day if that , too , had anything to do with Arkwright . 
He determined then to find out . 
Shamelessly for the good of the cause he set a trap for Billy's unwary feet . 
Oh , yes well , he was here once the day after the operetta . 
I haven't seen him since . 
'' Bertram answered a light something , but his face grew a little white . 
Now that the trap had been sprung and the victim caught , he almost wished that he had not set any trap at all . 
He knew now it was true . 
Arkwright had been with Billy the day after the operetta , and her tears and her distress that evening had been caused by something Arkwright had said . 
It was Arkwright's secret that she could not tell . 
It was Arkwright to whom she must be fair . 
It was Arkwright's sorrow that she could not help now . 
He understood it all now . 
Billy and Arkwright had found that they loved each other . 
On the day after the operetta , they had met , and had had some sort of scene together doubtless Arkwright had declared his love . 
That was the secret'' that Billy could not tell and be fair . 
'' Billy , of course , loyal little soul that she was , had sent him away at once . 
Was her hand not already pledged ? That was why she could not help it now . 
Since that meeting Arkwright had not been near the house . 
That Billy was still outwardly loyal to himself , and that she still kept to her engagement , did not surprise Bertram in the least . 
Bertram remembered her face as it had looked all those long summer days while her heart was being slowly broken and he thought he could see that same look in her eyes now . 
All of which only goes to prove with what woeful skill Bertram had fashioned this Thing that was looming before him as The Truth . 
The exhibition of The Bohemian Ten'' was to open with a private view on the evening of the twentieth of March . 
The Thing , indeed , was a jealous creature , and would brook no rival . 
She filled his eyes with horrid visions , and his brain with sickening thoughts . 
Between him and his model she flung a veil of fear and she set his hand to trembling , and his brush to making blunders with the paints on his palette . 
Bertram saw The Thing , and saw , too , the grievous result of her presence . 
Despairingly he fought against her and her work but The Thing had become full grown now , and was The Truth . 
Hence she was not to be banished . 
Sometimes he let his work remain . 
Sometimes one hour saw only the erasing of what the hour before had wrought . 
Sometimes the elusive something in Marguerite Winthrop's face seemed right at the tip of his brush on the canvas , even . 
He saw success then so plainly that for a moment it almost but not quite blotted out The Thing . 
At other times that elusive something on the high bred face of his model was a veritable will o' the wisp , refusing to be caught and held , even in his eye . 
The artist knew then that his picture would be hung with Anderson's and Fullam's . 
But the portrait was , irrefutably , nearing completion , and it was to be exhibited the twentieth of the month . 
Bertram knew these for facts . 
She missed , too , undeniably , Arkwright's cheery presence , and the charm and inspiration of his music . 
Nor was she finding it easy to give satisfactory answers to the questions Aunt Hannah , William , and Bertram so often asked her as to where Mary Jane was . 
Even her music was little comfort to her these days . 
She was not writing anything . 
There was no song in her heart to tempt her to write . 
Arkwright's new words that he had brought her were out of the question , of course . 
They had been put away with the manuscript of the completed song , which had not , fortunately , gone to the publishers . 
Billy had waited , intending to send them together . 
She was so glad , now , that she had waited . 
Just once , since Arkwright's last call , she had tried to sing that song . 
But she had stopped at the end of the first two lines . 
And she had presumed to sing that love song to Bertram ! Arkwright had written Billy once a kind , courteous , manly note that had made her cry . 
Billy and Aunt Hannah were great friends with the Greggorys now , and had been ever since the Greggorys' ten days' visit at Hillside . 
Billy had little to say to Alice Greggory of Arkwright . 
Billy was no longer trying to play Cupid's assistant . 
He brought us news of our old home , '' she explained a little hurriedly , to Billy . 
He had heard from his mother , and he thought some things she said would be interesting to us . 
Alice , however , had nothing more to say and Billy was left in entire ignorance of what the news was that Arkwright had brought . 
She suspected , though , that it had something to do with Alice's father certainly she hoped that it had for if Arkwright had called to tell it , it must be good . 
A little couple from South Boston , to whom Billy had given a two weeks' outing the summer before , had moved into town and taken a flat in the South End . 
Billy at once thought of the Greggorys , and spoke of them . 
'' Nonsense ! This isn't frosting it's business , '' Billy had laughed . 
And the new pupils you have found for Miss Alice they're business , too , I suppose ? '' Certainly , '' retorted Billy , with decision . 
Billy was not a little disturbed over Bertram these days . 
He did not seem to be his natural , cheery self at all . 
He talked little , and what he did say seldom showed a trace of his usually whimsical way of putting things . 
he did not really love any girl , except to paint ! The minute this thought came to her , Billy thrust it indignantly away . 
It was disloyal to Bertram and unworthy of herself , even to think such a thing . 
She told herself then that it was only the portrait of Miss Winthrop that was troubling him . 
She knew that he was worried over that . 
He had confessed to her that actually sometimes he was beginning to fear his hand had lost its cunning . 
, whose portrait had needed so much time and so many sittings to finish . 
But both thoughts , having once entered her brain , had made for themselves roads over which the second passing was much easier than the first as Billy found to her sorrow . 
Only with William and Marie , now , could Billy escape from it all . 
With William she sought new curios and catalogued the old . 
With Marie she beat eggs and whipped cream in the shining kitchen , and tried to think that nothing in the world mattered except that the cake in the oven should not fall . 
CHAPTER XXIX KATE WRITES A LETTER Bertram feared that he knew , before the portrait was hung , that it was a failure . 
But he knew , afterwards , that he did not really know it till he read the newspapers during the next few days . 
There was praise oh , yes the faint praise that kills . 
There was some adverse criticism , too but it was of the light , insincere variety that is given to mediocre work by unimportant artists . 
Then , here and there , appeared the signed critiques of the men whose opinion counted and Bertram knew that he had failed . 
Neither as a work of art , nor as a likeness , was the portrait the success that Henshaw's former work would seem to indicate that it should have been . 
'' Seldom , if ever before , had an exhibited portrait attracted so much attention . 
And when these eyes had seen , their owners talked . 
Nor did they , by any means , all talk against the portrait . 
Some were as loud in its praise as were others in its condemnation all of which , of course , but helped to attract more eyes to the cause of it all . 
For Bertram and his friends these days were , naturally , trying ones . 
William finally dreaded to open his newspaper . 
Cyril , according to Marie , played perfectly awful things on his piano every day , now . 
Of all Bertram's friends , Billy , perhaps not unnaturally , was the angriest . 
But , Bertram , why don't you do something ? Why don't you say something ? Why don't you act something ? '' she burst out one day . 
The artist shrugged his shoulders . 
But , my dear , what can I say , or do , or act ? '' he asked . 
I don't know , of course , '' sighed Billy . 
But I know what I'd like to do . 
What a fiery little champion it is , to be sure , '' he said tenderly . 
But as if fighting could do any good in this case ! '' Billy's tense muscles relaxed . 
Her eyes filled with tears . 
No , I don't suppose it would , '' she choked , beginning to cry , so that Bertram had to turn comforter . 
Come , come , dear , '' he begged don't take it so to heart . 
It's not so bad , after all . 
I've still my good right hand left , and we'll hope there's something in it yet that'll be worth while . 
'' But this one isn't bad , '' stormed Billy . 
It's splendid ! I'm sure , I think it's a b beautiful portrait , and I don't see what people mean by talking so about it ! '' Bertram shook his head . 
His eyes grew sombre again . 
But I know and you know , really that it isn't a splendid portrait . 
I've done lots better work than that . 
'' Then why don't they look at those , and let this alone ? '' wailed Billy , with indignation . 
Because I deliberately put up this for them to see , '' smiled the artist , wearily . 
Billy sighed , and twisted in her chair . 
What does Mr. Winthrop say ? '' she asked at last , in a faint voice . 
Mr. Winthrop's been a trump all through , dear . 
He's already insisted on paying for this and he's ordered another . 
'' Another ! '' Yes . 
The old fellow never minces his words , as you may know . 
He came to me one day , put his hand on my shoulder , and said tersely Will you give me another , same terms ? Go in , boy , and win . 
Show 'em ! I lost the first ten thousand I made . 
I didn't the next ! That's all he said . 
Before I could even choke out an answer he was gone . 
Perhaps his daughter influenced him some . 
'' Perhaps , '' nodded Bertram . 
She , too , has been very kind , all the way through . 
But I thought it was going so splendidly , '' she faltered , in a half stifled voice . 
So it was at the first . 
'' Then what ailed it , at the last , do you suppose ? '' Billy was holding her breath till he should answer . 
The man got to his feet . 
Billy , don't don't ask me , '' he begged . 
Please don't let's talk of it any more . 
It can't do any good ! I just flunked that's all . 
Maybe I tried too hard . 
Never mind , dear , what it was . 
It can do no good even to think of that now . 
So just let's drop it , please , dear , '' he finished , his face working with emotion . 
And Billy dropped it so far as words were concerned but she could not drop it from her thoughts specially after Kate's letter came . 
Kate's letter was addressed to Billy , and it said , after speaking of various other matters And now about poor Bertram's failure . 
Of course we have heard of it away out here . 
Now William , being a man , is not supposed to understand what the trouble is . 
Now , Billy , you don't like such frank talk , of course but , on the other hand , I know you do not want to ruin the dear boy's career . 
He can't make you happy , my dear , and you can't make him happy . 
Bertram never was and never will be a marrying man . 
He's too temperamental too thoroughly wrapped up in his Art . 
Girls have never meant anything to him but a beautiful picture to paint . 
Listen ! I can prove it to you . 
Up to this winter he's always been a care free , happy , jolly fellow , and you know what beautiful work he has done . 
Never before has he tied himself to any one girl till last fall . 
Then you two entered into this absurd engagement . 
And his picture has failed dismally . 
Of course William doesn't understand but I do . 
I know you've probably quarrelled , or something . 
You know how flighty and unreliable you can be sometimes , Billy , and I don't say that to mean anything against you , either that's your way . 
You're just as temperamental in your art , music , as Bertram is in his . 
You're utterly unsuited to him . 
If Bertram is to marry anybody , it should be some quiet , staid , sensible girl who would be a help to him . 
But when I think of you two flyaway flutterbudgets marrying ! Now , for heaven's sake , Billy , do make up or something and do it now . 
Don't , for pity's sake , let Bertram ever put out another such a piece of work to shame us all like this . 
Do you want to ruin his career ? Faithfully yours , KATE HARTWELL . 
P. S. I think William's the one for you . 
He's devoted to you , and his quiet , sensible affection is just what your temperament needs . 
I always thought William was the one for you . 
You can see by the above that it isn't you I'm objecting to , my dear . 
It's just you and Bertram . 
K. '' CHAPTER XXX I'VE HINDERED HIM'' Billy was shaking with anger and terror by the time she had finished reading Kate's letter . 
Then she went down stairs and played her noisiest , merriest Tarantella , and tried to see how fast she could make her fingers fly . 
The anger was still uppermost , but the terror was prodding her at every turn , and demanding to know just what it was that Kate had written in that letter , anyway . 
This was only another case of her trying to manage . 
'' She did so love to manage everything ! At this point Billy got out her pen and paper and wrote to Kate . 
It was a formal , cold little letter , not at all the sort that Billy's friends usually received . 
As for any quarrel'' being the cause of whatever fancied trouble there was with the new picture the letter scouted that idea in no uncertain terms . 
There had been no suggestion of a quarrel even once since the engagement . 
Then Billy signed her name and took the letter out to post immediately . 
She had sent Kate a courteous , dignified , conclusive , effectual answer , and she thought with much satisfaction of the things she had said . 
Very soon , however , she began to think not so much of what she had said but of what Kate had said . 
Many of Kate's sentences were unpleasantly vivid in her mind . 
They seemed , indeed , to stand out in letters of flame , and they began to burn , and burn , and burn . 
These were some of them William says that Bertram has been completely out of fix over something , and as gloomy as an owl for weeks past . 
'' A woman is at the bottom of it . 
'' You can't make him happy . 
'' Bertram never was and never will be a marrying man . 
'' Girls have never meant anything to him but a beautiful picture to paint . 
'' Up to this winter he's always been a carefree , happy , jolly fellow , and you know what beautiful work he has done . 
Never before has he tied himself to any one girl until last fall . 
'' Now what has it been since ? '' He's been so moody , so irritable , so fretted over his work , so unlike himself and his picture has failed , dismally . 
'' Do you want to ruin his career ? '' Billy began to see now that she had not really answered Kate's letter at all . 
The matter was not closed . 
Her reply had been , perhaps , courteous and dignified but it had not been conclusive nor effectual . 
Billy had reached home now , and she was crying . 
Bertram had acted strangely , of late . 
Bertram had seemed troubled over something . 
His picture had With a little shudder Billy tossed aside these thoughts , and dug at her teary eyes with a determined hand . 
Fiercely she told herself that the matter was settled . 
As it chanced , however , even here Billy found no peace for the first article she opened to was headed in huge black type MARRIAGE AND THE ARTISTIC TEMPERAMENT . 
'' With a little cry Billy flung the magazine far from her , and picked up another . 
Billy knew that in the end she should go over and pick that magazine up , and read that article from beginning to end . 
She was not surprised , therefore , when she did it but she was not any the happier for having done it . 
The writer of the article did not approve of marriage and the artistic temperament . 
He said the artist belonged to his Art , and to posterity through his Art . 
The essay fairly bristled with many lettered words and high sounding phrases , few of which Billy really understood . 
She did understand enough , however , to feel , guiltily , when the thing was finished , that already she had married Bertram , and by so doing had committed a Crime . 
She had slain Art , stifled Ambition , destroyed Inspiration , and been a nuisance generally . 
In consequence of which Bertram would henceforth and forevermore be doomed to Littleness . 
Naturally , in this state of mind , and with this vision before her , Billy was anything but her bright , easy self when she met Bertram an hour or two later . 
With sighs , unspoken questions , and frequently averted eyes , therefore , the wretched evening passed , a pitiful misery to them both . 
During the days that followed , Billy thought that the world itself must be in league with Kate , so often did she encounter Kate's letter masquerading under some thin disguise . 
She did not stop to realize that because she was so afraid she would find it , she did find it . 
Some writers said no , and some , yes and some said it all depended on the artist and his wife . 
Billy found much food for thought , some for amusement , and a little that made for peace of mind . 
On the whole it opened up a new phase of the matter , perhaps . 
Billy found Marie in tears . 
Why , Marie ! '' she cried in dismay . 
Sh h ! '' warned Marie , turning agonized eyes toward the closed door of Cyril's den . 
But , dear , what is it ? '' begged Billy , with no less dismay , but with greater caution . 
Sh h ! '' admonished Marie again . 
On tiptoe , then , she led the way to a room at the other end of the tiny apartment . 
Once there she explained in a more natural tone of voice Cyril's at work on a new piece for the piano . 
'' Well , what if he is ? '' demanded Billy . 
That needn't make you cry , need it ? '' Oh , no no , indeed , '' demurred Marie , in a shocked voice . 
Not good enough , Marie Henshaw ! Whatever in the world do you mean ? '' Well , not good for him , then . 
Listen ! To day , I know , in lots of ways I must have disappointed him . 
First , he put on some socks that I'd darned . 
They were the first since our marriage that I'd found to darn , and I'd been so proud and and happy while I was darning them . 
But but he took 'em off right after breakfast and threw 'em in a corner . 
Then he put on a new pair , and said that I I needn't darn any more that it made bunches . 
Billy , my darns bunches ! '' Marie's face and voice were tragic . 
Nonsense , dear ! Don't let that fret you , '' comforted Billy , promptly , trying not to laugh too hard . 
It wasn't your darns it was just darns anybody's darns . 
Cyril won't wear darned socks . 
Aunt Hannah told me so long ago , and I said then there'd be a tragedy when you found it out . 
So don't worry over that . 
'' Oh , but that isn't all , '' moaned Marie . 
Billy burst into a ringing laugh , but Marie's aghast face and upraised hand speedily reduced it to a convulsive giggle . 
You dear child ! Cyril's always like that when he's composing , '' soothed Billy . 
I supposed you knew it , dear . 
'' Marie shook her head . 
Her dismal face did not relax . 
You don't understand , '' she moaned . 
I've hindered him ! '' She brought out the word with an agony of slow horror . 
And only to day I read here , look ! '' she faltered , going to the table and picking up with shaking hands a magazine . 
Billy recognized it by the cover at once another like it had been flung not so long ago by her own hand into the corner . 
She was not surprised , therefore , to see very soon at the end of Marie's trembling finger Marriage and the Artistic Temperament . 
'' Billy did not give a ringing laugh this time . 
She gave an involuntary little shudder , though she tried valiantly to turn it all off with a light word of scorn , and a cheery pat on Marie's heaving shoulders . 
But she went home very soon and it was plain to be seen that her visit to Marie had not brought her peace . 
Before she would quite surrender to this heart sickening belief , however , she determined to ask Bertram himself . 
Falteringly , but resolutely , therefore , one day , she questioned him . 
She had it in the quick terror that sprang to his eyes , and the dull red that swept from his neck to his forehead . 
His reply , so far as words went did not count , for it evaded everything and told nothing . 
But Billy knew without words . 
She knew , too , what she must do . 
This was like Billy in all ways . 
Billy , had she lived in the days of the Christian martyrs , would have been the first to walk with head erect into the Arena of Sacrifice . 
The arena now was just everyday living , the lions were her own devouring misery , and the cause was Bertram's best good . 
From Bertram's own self she had it now that she had been the cause of his being troubled so she could doubt no longer . 
The only part that was uncertain was the reason why he had been troubled . 
Whether his bond to her had become irksome because of his love for another , or because of his love for no girl except to paint , Billy did not know . 
But that it was irksome she did not doubt now . 
This was the letter DEAR BERTRAM You won't make the move , so I must . 
I knew , from the way you spoke to day , that it was about me that you were troubled , even though you generously tried to make me think it was not . 
And so the picture did not go well . 
Now , dear , we have not been happy together lately . 
You have seen it so have I. I fear our engagement was a mistake , so I'm going to send back your ring to morrow , and I'm writing this letter to night . 
Please don't try to see me just yet . 
You know what I am doing is best all round . 
Always your friend , BILLY . 
'' CHAPTER XXXI FLIGHT Billy feared if she did not mail the letter at once she would not have the courage to mail it at all . 
For one wild minute Billy felt that she must run to the telephone , summon Bertram , and beseech him to return unread the letter he would receive from her that day . 
Then there came to her the memory of Bertram's face as it had looked the night before when she had asked him if she were the cause of his being troubled . 
The one fatal mistake now would be to let Bertram see her own distress . 
If once he should suspect how she suffered in doing this thing , there would be a scene that Billy felt she had not the courage to face . 
She must , therefore , manage in some way not to see Bertram not to let him see her until she felt more sure of her self control no matter what he said . 
The easiest way to do this was , of course , to go away . 
But where ? How ? She must think . 
Meanwhile , for these first few hours , she would not tell any one , even Aunt Hannah , what had happened . 
There must no one speak to her of it , yet . 
That she could not endure . 
Billy went down to breakfast , therefore , with a determination to act exactly as usual , so that Aunt Hannah should not know yet . 
When people try to act exactly as usual , '' they generally end in acting quite the opposite and Billy was no exception to the rule . 
'' A little later , when Aunt Hannah was glancing over the morning paper now no longer barred from the door she gave a sudden cry . 
Billy , just listen to this ! '' she exclaimed , reading from the paper in her hand . 
A new tenor in The Girl of the Golden West . 
'' Appearance of Mr. M. J. Arkwright at the Boston Opera House to night . 
Arkwright is said to have a fine voice , a particularly good stage presence , and a purity of tone and smoothness of execution that few of his age and experience can show . 
His performance is awaited with the greatest of interest . 
Now isn't that splendid for Mary Jane ? I'm so glad ! '' beamed Aunt Hannah . 
Of course we're glad ! '' cried Billy . 
And didn't it come just in time ? This is the last week of opera , anyway , you know . 
'' But it says he sang before on a Saturday night , '' declared Aunt Hannah , going back to the paper in her hand . 
I know it but it's so funny he hasn't seen us , '' contended Aunt Hannah , frowning . 
You know how much he used to be here . 
'' Billy colored , and hurried into the fray . 
Oh , but he must have been so busy , with all this , you know . 
And of course we didn't see it in the paper because we didn't have any paper at that time , probably . 
Oh , yes , that's my fault , I know , '' she laughed and I was silly , I'll own . 
But we'll make up for it now . 
I'll go down there this morning to tell them , and to get the tickets . 
I've got it all planned . 
'' Billy had , indeed , got it all planned . 
'' She had been longing for something that would take her away from the house and if possible away from herself . 
This would do the one easily , and might help on the other . 
I'll go right away , '' she said . 
But , my dear , '' frowned Aunt Hannah , anxiously , I don't believe I can go to night though I'd love to , dearly . 
'' But why not ? '' I'm tired and half sick with a headache this morning . 
I didn't sleep , and I've taken cold somewhere , '' sighed the lady , pulling the top shawl a little higher about her throat . 
Why , you poor dear , what a shame ! '' Won't Bertram go ? '' asked Aunt Hannah . 
Billy shook her head but she did not meet Aunt Hannah's eyes . 
I sha'n't even ask him . 
He said last night he had a banquet on for to night one of his art clubs , I believe . 
'' Billy's voice was casualness itself . 
But you'll have the Greggorys that is , Mrs. Greggory can go , can't she ? '' inquired Aunt Hannah . 
Oh , yes I'm sure she can , '' nodded Billy . 
You know she went to the operetta , and this is just the same only bigger . 
'' Yes , yes , I know , '' murmured Aunt Hannah . 
Dear me ! How can she get about so on those two wretched little sticks ? She's a perfect marvel to me . 
'' She is to me , too , '' sighed Billy , as she hurried from the room . 
Billy was , indeed , in a hurry . 
To herself she said she wanted to get away away ! And she got away as soon as she could . 
She had her plans all made . 
She would go first to the Greggorys' and invite them to attend the opera with her that evening . 
Then she would get the tickets . 
Just what she would do with the rest of the day she did not know . 
She knew only that she would not go home until time to dress for dinner and the opera . 
She did not tell Aunt Hannah this , however , when she left the house . 
She planned to telephone it from somewhere down town , later . 
Billy had not been long gone when the telephone bell rang . 
Why , Bertram , is that you ? '' she called , in answer to the words that came to her across the wire . 
Why , I hardly knew your voice ! '' Didn't you ? Well , is is Billy there ? '' No , she isn't . 
She's gone down to see Alice Greggory . 
'' Oh ! '' So evident was the disappointment in the voice that Aunt Hannah added hastily I'm so sorry ! She hasn't been gone ten minutes . 
But is there any message ? '' No , thank you . 
'' The voice hesitated , then went on a little constrainedly . 
How how is Billy this morning ? She she's all right , isn't she ? '' Aunt Hannah laughed in obvious amusement . 
Bless your dear heart , yes , my boy ! Has it been such a long time since last evening when you saw her yourself ? Yes , she's all right . 
In fact , I was thinking at the breakfast table how pretty she looked with her pink cheeks and her bright eyes . 
She seemed to be in such high spirits . 
'' An inarticulate something that Aunt Hannah could not quite catch came across the line then a somewhat hurried All right . 
'' The next time Aunt Hannah was called to the telephone , Billy spoke to her . 
Aunt Hannah , don't wait luncheon for me , please . 
I shall get it in town . 
And don't expect me till five o'clock . 
I have some shopping to do . 
'' All right , dear , '' replied Aunt Hannah . 
Did you get the tickets ? '' Yes , and the Greggorys will go . 
Oh , and Aunt Hannah ! '' Yes , dear . 
'' Please tell John to bring Peggy around early enough to night so we can go down and get the Greggorys . 
I told them we'd call for them . 
'' Very well , dear . 
How's the poor head ? '' Better , a little , I think . 
Won't you repent and go , too ? '' No oh , no , indeed ! '' All right , then good by . 
I'm sorry ! '' So'm I. Good by , '' sighed Aunt Hannah , as she hung up the receiver and turned away . 
There ! and I forgot , '' she confessed . 
Bertram called you up just after you left this morning , my dear . 
'' Did he ? '' Billy's face was turned away , but Aunt Hannah did not notice that . 
Oh , he didn't want anything special , '' smiled the lady , only well , he did ask if you were all right this morning , '' she finished with quiet mischief . 
Did he ? '' murmured Billy again . 
This time there was a little sound after the words , which Aunt Hannah would have taken for a sob if she had not known that it must have been a laugh . 
At eight o'clock the doorbell rang , and a minute later Rosa came up to say that Mr. Bertram Henshaw was down stairs and wished to see Mrs. Stetson . 
Mrs. Stetson went down at once . 
'' Bertram's face was pale and drawn . 
His voice did not sound natural . 
Why , Bertram , you look ill ! Are you ill ? '' The man made an impatient gesture . 
No , no , I'm not ill I'm not ill at all . 
Rosa says Billy's not here . 
'' No she's gone to the opera with the Greggorys . 
'' The opera ! '' There was a grieved hurt in Bertram's voice that Aunt Hannah quite misunderstood . 
She hastened to give an apologetic explanation . 
She would have told you she would have asked you to join them , I'm sure , but she said you were going to a banquet . 
I'm sure she said so . 
'' Yes , I did tell her so last night , '' nodded Bertram , dully . 
Aunt Hannah frowned a little . 
Still more anxiously she endeavored to explain to this disappointed lover why his sweetheart was not at home to greet him . 
Didn't you see it in the paper ? Such a splendid chance for him ! His picture was there , too . 
'' No. I didn't see it . 
'' Then you don't know about it , of course , '' smiled Aunt Hannah . 
But he's to take the part of Johnson in The Girl of the Golden West . 
Isn't that splendid ? I'm so glad ! And Billy was , too . 
She hurried right off this morning to get the tickets and to ask the Greggorys . 
'' Oh ! '' Bertram got to his feet a little abruptly , and held out his hand . 
Well , then , I might as well say good by then , I suppose , '' he suggested with a laugh that Aunt Hannah thought was a bit forced . 
Before she could remind him again , though , that Billy was really not to blame for not being there to welcome him , he was gone . 
And Aunt Hannah could only go up stairs and meditate on the unreasonableness of lovers in general , and of Bertram in particular . 
Billy , dear , come in here . 
I'm awake ! I want to hear about it . 
Was it good ? '' Billy stopped in the doorway . 
The light from the hall struck her face . 
There was no brightness in her eyes now , no pink in her cheeks . 
Oh , yes , it was good very good , '' she replied listlessly . 
'' Very good , indeed ! '' echoed the lady , indignantly . 
He must have been ! when you speak as if you'd actually forgotten that he sang at all , anyway ! '' Billy had forgotten almost . 
Billy had found that , in spite of her getting away from the house , she had not got away from herself once , all day . 
She tried now , however , to summon her acting powers of the morning . 
But it was splendid , really , Aunt Hannah , '' she cried , with some show of animation . 
And they clapped and cheered and gave him any number of curtain calls . 
We were so proud of him ! But you see , I am tired , '' she broke off wearily . 
You poor child , of course you are , and you look like a ghost ! I won't keep you another minute . 
Oh Bertram didn't go to that banquet , after all . 
He came here , '' she added , as Billy turned to go . 
Bertram ! '' The girl wheeled sharply . 
He wanted you , of course . 
I found I didn't do , at all , '' chuckled Aunt Hannah . 
Did you suppose I would ? '' There was no answer . 
In the long night watches Billy fought it out with herself . 
Already Bertram had telephoned , and called . 
He evidently meant to see her and she could not see him . 
Very early in the morning a white faced , red eyed Billy appeared at Aunt Hannah's bedside . 
Billy ! '' exclaimed Aunt Hannah , plainly appalled . 
Billy sat down on the edge of the bed . 
You were saying the other day that you would like to visit your old home town . 
Well , I think that's a very nice idea . 
If you don't mind we'll go to day . 
'' Aunt Hannah pulled herself half erect in bed . 
To day child ? '' Yes , '' nodded Billy , unsmilingly . 
We shall have to go somewhere to day , and I thought you would like that place best . 
'' But Billy ! what does this mean ? '' Billy sighed heavily . 
You'll have to know the rest , of course . 
I don't want to see Bertram . 
That's why I'm going away . 
'' Aunt Hannah fell nervelessly back on the pillow . 
Oh , my grief and conscience Billy ! Won't you please pull up that blanket , '' she moaned . 
Billy , what do you mean ? '' Billy shook her head and got to her feet . 
I can't tell any more now , really , Aunt Hannah . 
Please don't ask me and don't talk . 
That'll be best all around . 
You'll agree to that , I'm sure . 
Please don't try to see me , and please don't write . 
It wouldn't make either one of us any happier . 
As ever your friend , BILLY . 
'' Bertram , when he read it , grew only a shade more white , a degree more sick at heart . 
Then he kissed the letter gently and put it away with the other . 
To Bertram , the thing was very clear . 
Billy had come now to the conclusion that it would be wrong to give herself where she could not give her heart . 
And in this he agreed with her bitter as it was for him . 
Certainly he did not want Billy , if Billy did not want him , he told himself . 
He would now , of course , accede to her request . 
He would not write to her and make her suffer more . 
But to Bertram , at that moment , it seemed that the very sun in the heavens had gone out . 
CHAPTER XXXII PETE TO THE RESCUE One by one the weeks passed and became a month . 
Then other weeks became other months . 
It was July when Billy , homesick and weary , came back to Hillside with Aunt Hannah . 
Home looked wonderfully good to Billy , in spite of the fact that she had so dreaded to see it . 
Billy had made up her mind , however , that , come sometime she must . 
She could not , of course , stay always away . 
Perhaps , too , it would be just as easy at home as it was away . 
Certainly it could not be any harder . 
She was convinced of that . 
Besides , she did not want Bertram to think Billy had received only meagre news from Boston since she went away . 
Bertram had not written at all . 
William had written twice hurt , grieved , puzzled , questioning letters that were very hard to answer . 
From Marie , too , had come letters of much the same sort . 
By far the cheeriest epistles had come from Alice Greggory . 
When she came back to Billy she was crying and wringing her hands . 
Billy sprang to her feet . 
Why , Aunt Hannah , what is it ? What's the matter ? '' she demanded . 
Aunt Hannah sank into a chair , still wringing her hands . 
Oh , Billy , Billy , how can I tell you , how can I tell you ? '' she moaned . 
Quick , quick what do you mean ? '' For answer , Aunt Hannah covered her face with her hands and began to sob aloud . 
Billy , almost beside herself now with terror and anxiety , dropped on her knees and tried to pull away the shaking hands . 
Aunt Hannah , you must tell me ! You must you must ! '' I can't , Billy . 
He's hurt ! '' choked Aunt Hannah , hysterically . 
Hurt ! How ? '' I don't know . 
'' Pete ! '' Yes . 
Rosa had told him we were coming , and he called me up . 
He said maybe I could do something . 
'' Yes , yes ! But told you what ? '' That he was hurt . 
'' How ? '' I couldn't hear all , but I think 'twas an accident automobile . 
Not that , Aunt Hannah not that ! '' That's what Pete said . 
I couldn't get all of it , but I got that . 
And , Billy , he's been out of his head though he isn't now , Pete says and and and he's been calling for you . 
'' For me ? '' A swift change came to Billy's face . 
Over and over again he called for you while he was crazy , you know . 
That's why Pete told me . 
Her fingers were on the electric push button that would summon Rosa . 
The next moment Rosa appeared . 
Tell John to bring Peggy to the door at once , please , '' directed her mistress . 
Billy ! '' gasped Aunt Hannah again , as the maid disappeared . 
Billy was tremblingly putting on the hat she had but just taken off . 
Billy , what are you going to do ? '' Billy turned in obvious surprise . 
Why , I'm going to Bertram , of course . 
'' To Bertram ! But it's nearly half past eight , child , and it rains , and everything ! '' But Bertram wants me ! '' exclaimed Billy . 
Billy reached for her coat . 
Aunt Hannah stirred into sudden action . 
But , Billy , if you'd only wait till to morrow , '' she quavered , putting out a feebly restraining hand . 
To morrow ! '' The young voice rang with supreme scorn . 
Do you think I'd wait till to morrow after all this ? I say Bertram wants me . 
'' Billy picked up her gloves . 
But you broke it off , dear you said you did and to go down there to night like this '' Billy lifted her head . 
Her whole face was a glory of love and pride . 
He wants me , Aunt Hannah . 
Did you hear ? He wants me ! And now I won't even hinder him , if he can't p paint again ! '' Billy's voice broke . 
The glory left her face . 
Her eyes brimmed with tears , but her head was still bravely uplifted . 
I'm going to Bertram ! '' Blindly Aunt Hannah got to her feet . 
Still more blindly she reached for her bonnet and cloak on the chair near her . 
Oh , will you go , too ? '' asked Billy , abstractedly , hurrying to the window to look for the motor car . 
Will I go , too ! '' burst out Aunt Hannah's indignant voice . 
Don't know , indeed ! Oh , my grief and conscience ! '' groaned Aunt Hannah , setting her bonnet hopelessly askew on top of her agitated head . 
But Billy did not even answer now . 
Her face was pressed hard against the window pane . 
CHAPTER XXXIII BERTRAM TAKES THE REINS With stiffly pompous dignity Pete opened the door . 
Then he saw Aunt Hannah Aunt Hannah with her bonnet askew , her neck bow awry , one hand bare , and the other half covered with a glove wrong side out . 
It was one matter for her to object to this thing Billy was doing but quite another for Pete to do it . 
Of course it's she ! '' retorted Aunt Hannah , testily . 
As if you yourself didn't bring her here with your crazy messages at this time of night ! '' Pete , where is he ? '' interposed Billy . 
Tell Mr. Bertram I am here or , wait ! I'll go right in and surprise him . 
'' Billy ! '' This time it was Aunt Hannah who gasped her name . 
Pete had recovered himself by now , but he did not even glance toward Aunt Hannah . 
His face was beaming , and his old eyes were shining . 
'' Billy turned eagerly , but before she could take so much as one step toward the door at the end of the hall , Aunt Hannah's indignant voice arrested her . 
The emphatic we'' and us'' were not lost on him . 
But his face was preternaturally grave when he spoke . 
Mr. Bertram is up and dressed , ma'am . 
'' Pete , once again the punctilious butler , stalked to the door of Bertram's den and threw it wide open . 
Opposite the door , on a low couch , lay Bertram , his head bandaged , and his right arm in a sling . 
His face was turned toward the door , but his eyes were closed . 
He looked very white , and his features were pitifully drawn with suffering . 
Mr. Bertram , '' began Pete but he got no further . 
A flying figure brushed by him and fell on its knees by the couch , with a low cry . 
Across his face swept such a radiant look of unearthly joy that Pete sobbed audibly and fled to the kitchen . 
Dong Ling found him there a minute later polishing a silver teaspoon with a fringed napkin that had been spread over Bertram's tray . 
In the hall above Aunt Hannah was crying into William's gray linen duster that hung on the hall rack Aunt Hannah's handkerchief was on the floor back at Hillside . 
In the den neither Billy nor Bertram knew or cared what had become of Aunt Hannah and Pete . 
There were just two people in their world two people , and unutterable , incredible , overwhelming rapture and peace . 
Then , very gradually it dawned over them that there was , after all , something strange and unexplained in it all . 
But , dearest , what does it mean you here like this ? '' asked Bertram then . 
As if to make sure that she was here , like this , '' he drew her even closer Bertram was so thankful that he did have one arm that was usable . 
Billy , on her knees by the couch , snuggled into the curve of the one arm with a contented little sigh . 
Well , you see , just as soon as I found out to night that you wanted me , I came , '' she said . 
You darling ! That was '' Bertram stopped suddenly . 
A puzzled frown showed below the fantastic bandage about his head . 
As soon as , '' he quoted then scornfully . 
Were you ever by any possible chance thinking I didn't want you ? '' Billy's eyes widened a little . 
Why , of of course , '' stammered Billy , I couldn't help thinking that maybe you had found out you didn't want me . 
'' Didn't want you ! '' groaned Bertram , his tense muscles relaxing . 
May I ask why ? '' Billy blushed . 
Pete told you that I didn't care for any girl , only to paint ? '' demanded Bertram , angry and mystified . 
No , no , '' sobbed Billy , not that . 
There , there , dear , '' comforted Bertram , patting the bronze gold head on his breast . 
I haven't the faintest idea what you're talking about except the last but I know there can't be anything that ought to make you cry like that . 
As for my not painting again you didn't understand Pete , dearie . 
That was what they were afraid of at first that I'd lose my arm but that danger is all past now . 
Of course I'm going to paint again and better than ever before now ! '' Billy lifted her head . 
A look that was almost terror came to her eyes . 
She pulled herself half away from Bertram's encircling arm . 
Why , Billy , '' cried the man , in pained surprise . 
It's only for me , you know . 
Well , to begin with , Kate said '' Good heavens ! Is Kate in this , too ? '' Bertram's voice was savage now . 
Well , she wrote a letter . 
'' I'll warrant she did ! Great Scott , Billy ! Don't you know Kate by this time ? '' Y yes , I said so , too . 
But , Bertram , what she wrote was true . 
I found it everywhere , afterwards in magazines and papers , and even in Marie . 
I don't not right here , '' she cooed , nestling comfortably against her lover's arm . 
But you see , dear , she never has approved of the marriage . 
'' Well , who's doing the marrying she , or I ? '' That's what I said , too only in another way , '' sighed Billy . 
But she called us flyaway flutterbudgets , and she said I'd ruin your career , if I did marry you . 
'' Well , I can tell you right now , Billy , you will ruin it if you don't ! '' declared Bertram . 
That's what ailed me all the time I was painting that miserable portrait . 
I was so worried for fear I'd lose you . 
'' Lose me ! Why , Bertram Henshaw , what do you mean ? '' A shamed red crept to the man's forehead . 
Well , I suppose I might as well own up now as any time . 
I was scared blue , Billy , with jealousy of Arkwright . 
'' Billy laughed gayly but she shifted her position and did not meet her lover's eyes . 
Arkwright ? Nonsense ! '' she cried . 
Why , he's going to marry Alice Greggory . 
I know he is ! I can see it as plain as day in her letters . 
'' And you never did think for a minute , Billy , that you cared for him ? '' Bertram's gaze searched Billy's face a little fearfully . 
He had not been slow to mark that swift lowering of her eyelids . 
But Billy looked him now straight in the face it was a level , frank gaze of absolute truth . 
Never , dear , '' she said firmly . 
There has never really been any one but you . 
'' Thank God for that , '' breathed Bertram , as he drew the bright head nearer and held it close . 
After a minute Billy stirred and sighed happily . 
Aren't lovers the beat'em for imagining things ? '' she murmured . 
'' You see I wasn't in love with Mr. Arkwright . 
'' I see I hope . 
'' And and you didn't care specially for for Miss Winthrop ? '' Eh ? Well , no ! '' exploded Bertram . 
Do you mean to say you really '' Billy put a soft finger on his lips . 
Er people who live in glass houses , you know , '' she reminded him , with roguish eyes . 
Bertram kissed the finger and subsided . 
Humph ! '' he commented . 
'' Well , by Jove ! '' breathed Bertram . 
Then , suddenly , Bertram stirred . 
Billy , I'm going to marry you to morrow , '' he announced decisively . 
Billy lifted her head and sat back in palpitating dismay . 
Bertram ! What an absurd idea ! '' Well , I am . 
I'm going to marry you to morrow . 
I'll get '' He stopped short , with a sudden frown . 
Confound that law ! I forgot . 
Great Scott , Billy , I'll have to trust you five days , after all ! There's a new law about the license . 
We've got to wait five days and maybe more , counting in the notice , and all . 
Five days , indeed , sir ! I wonder if you think I can get ready to be married in five days . 
'' Don't want you to get ready , '' retorted Bertram , promptly . 
I saw Marie get ready , and I had all I wanted of it . 
If you really must have all those miles of tablecloths and napkins and doilies and lace rufflings we'll do it afterwards , not before . 
'' But '' Besides , I need you to take care of me , '' cut in Bertram , craftily . 
Bertram , do you really ? '' The tender glow on Billy's face told its own story , and Bertram's eager eyes were not slow to read it . 
Sweetheart , see here , dear , '' he cried softly , tightening his good left arm . 
And forthwith he began to tell her how much he did , indeed , need her . 
Billy , my dear ! '' It was Aunt Hannah's plaintive voice at the doorway , a little later . 
We must go home and William is here , too , and wants to see you . 
'' Billy rose at once as Aunt Hannah entered the room . 
Yes , Aunt Hannah , I'll come besides '' she glanced at Bertram mischievously '' I shall need all the time I've got to prepare for my wedding . 
'' , Your wedding ! You mean it'll be before October ? '' Aunt Hannah glanced from one to the other uncertainly . 
Something in their smiling faces sent a quick suspicion to her eyes . 
Yes , '' nodded Billy , demurely . 
It's next Tuesday , you see . 
'' Next Tuesday ! But that's only a week away , '' gasped Aunt Hannah . 
'' But , child , your trousseau the wedding the the a week ! '' Aunt Hannah could not articulate further . 
Yes , I know that is a good while , '' cut in Bertram , airily . 
We wanted it to morrow , but we had to wait , on account of the new license law . 
Otherwise it wouldn't have been so long , and '' But Aunt Hannah was gone . 
With a low breathed Long ! Oh , my grief and conscience William ! '' she had fled through the hall door . 
Well , it is long , '' maintained Bertram , with tender eyes , as he reached out his hand to say good night . 
