Scanned by Charles Keller with OmniPage Professional OCR software donated by Caere Corporation , . 
Contact Mike Lough Mikel caere . 
com MISS BILLY MARRIED BY ELEANOR H. PORTER AUTHOR OF POLLYANNA , Etc . 
TO My Cousin Maud CONTENTS CHAPTER I. SOME OPINIONS AND A WEDDING II . 
FOR WILLIAM A HOME III . 
BILLY SPEAKS HER MIND IV . 
JUST LIKE BILLY V. TIGER SKINS VI . 
THE BIG BAD QUARREL VIII . 
BILLY CULTIVATES A COMFORTABLE INDIFFERENCE'' IX . 
THE DINNER BILLY TRIED TO GET X. THE DINNER BILLY GOT XI . 
CALDERWELL DOES SOME QUESTIONING XII . 
FOR BILLY SOME ADVICE XIII . 
WHEN BERTRAM CAME HOME XV . 
INTO TRAINING FOR MARY ELLEN XVII . 
THE EFFICIENCY STAR AND BILLY XVIII . 
BILLY TRIES HER HAND AT MANAGING'' XIX . 
A TOUGH NUT TO CRACK FOR CYRIL XX . 
ARKWRIGHT'S EYES ARE OPENED XXI . 
BILLY TAKES HER TURN AT QUESTIONING XXII . 
A DOT AND A DIMPLE XXIII . 
BILLY AND THE ENORMOUS RESPONSIBILITY XXIV . 
SHOULD AULD ACQUAINTANCE BE FORGOT'' XXVI . 
GHOSTS THAT WALKED FOR BERTRAM XXVII . 
THE MOTHER THE WIFE XXVIII . 
BY A BABY'S HAND Miss Billy Married CHAPTER I SOME OPINIONS AND A WEDDING I , Bertram , take thee , Billy , '' chanted the white robed clergyman . 
I , Bertram , take thee , Billy , '' echoed the tall young bridegroom , his eyes gravely tender . 
'' To my wedded wife . 
'' The bridegroom's voice shook a little . 
To have and to hold from this day forward . 
'' To have and to hold from this day forward . 
'' Now the young voice rang with triumph . 
It had grown strong and steady . 
'' For better for worse . 
'' For richer for poorer , '' droned the clergyman , with the weariness of uncounted repetitions . 
For richer for poorer , '' avowed the bridegroom , with the decisive emphasis of one to whom the words are new and significant . 
In sickness and in health . 
'' In sickness and in health . 
'' To love and to cherish . 
'' To love and to cherish . 
'' The younger voice carried infinite tenderness now . 
Till death us do part . 
'' Till death us do part , '' repeated the bridegroom's lips but everybody knew that what his heart said was Now , and through all eternity . 
'' According to God's holy ordinance . 
'' According to God's holy ordinance . 
'' And thereto I plight thee my troth . 
'' And thereto I plight thee my troth . 
'' There was a faint stir in the room . 
In one corner a white haired woman blinked tear wet eyes and pulled a fleecy white shawl more closely about her shoulders . 
Then the minister's voice sounded again . 
I , Billy , take thee , Bertram . 
'' I , Billy , take thee , Bertram . 
The wedding was at noon . 
That evening Mrs. Kate Hartwell , sister of the bridegroom , wrote the following letter BOSTON , July th . 
MY DEAR HUSBAND Well , it's all over with , and they're married . 
I couldn't do one thing to prevent it . 
They had it in Billy's living room at noon , with nothing but the sun for light . 
There was no trousseau , either , and no reception . 
I can't say that I've got any really satisfactory explanation of the matter . 
As near as I can make out , however , she thought he didn't want her , and he thought she didn't want him . 
I believe matters were still further complicated by a girl Bertram was painting , and a young fellow that used to sing with Billy a Mr. Arkwright . 
He was wildly delirious , and called continually for Billy . 
All Billy would say , was , Bertram wants me . 
So perhaps it's just as well for Aunt Hannah's sake , at least that he was in no worse place than on his own couch at home . 
Anyhow , she went , and in half an hour they blandly informed Aunt Hannah that they were going to be married to day . 
, but Bertram was obdurate . 
, and so break the engagement again . 
Well , she's his now , so I suppose he's satisfied though , for my part , I haven't changed my mind at all . 
I still say that they are not one bit suited to each other , and that matrimony will simply ruin his career . 
Bertram never has loved and never will love any girl long except to paint . 
A more impulsive , irresponsible , regardless of consequences young woman I never saw . 
As you see , though , my trip East has been practically useless . 
However , we shall see what we shall see . 
As for me , I'm dead tired . 
'' Quite naturally , Mrs. Kate Hartwell was not the only one who was thinking that evening of the wedding . 
'' Over by the table in the glowing circle of the shaded lamp , sat Marie , Cyril's wife , a dainty sewing basket by her side . 
Her hands , however , lay idly across the stocking in her lap . 
As the music ceased , she drew a long sigh . 
What a perfectly beautiful wedding that was ! she breathed . 
Cyril whirled about on the piano stool . 
It was a very sensible wedding , '' he said with emphasis . 
'' Cyril lifted his eyebrows . 
Humph ! Well , as I said before , it was a very sensible wedding , '' he declared . 
This time Marie noticed the emphasis . 
She laughed , though her eyes looked a little troubled . 
I know , dear , of course , what you mean . 
Oh , well , I stood it for the sake of what it brought me . 
'' His face showed now only the smile the frown had vanished . 
For a man known for years to his friends as a hater of women and all other confusion , '' Cyril Henshaw was looking remarkably well pleased with himself . 
His wife of less than a year colored as she met his gaze . 
Hurriedly she picked up her needle . 
The man laughed happily at her confusion . 
What are you doing ? Is that my stocking ? '' he demanded . 
A look , half pain , half reproach , crossed her face . 
Why , Cyril , of course not ! You you told me not to , long ago . 
You said my darns made bunches . 
Ho ! I meant I didn't want to wear them , '' retorted the man , upon whom the tragic wretchedness of that half sobbed bunches'' had been quite lost . 
I love to see you mending them , '' he finished , with an approving glance at the pretty little picture of domesticity before him . 
A peculiar expression came to Marie's eyes . 
I'm afraid not , Cyril . 
'' Nor cook ? '' Marie laughed outright this time . 
'' For me ! '' Marie puckered her lips queerly . 
Well , I supposed they were for you at the time . 
At all events she was trying to make them for some one of you boys probably it was really for Bertram , though . 
'' Humph ! '' grunted Cyril . 
Then , after a minute , he observed I judge Kate thinks Billy'll never make them for anybody . 
I'm afraid Sister Kate isn't pleased . 
'' Oh , but Mrs. Hartwell was was disappointed in the wedding , '' apologized Marie , quickly . 
You know she wanted it put off anyway , and she didn't like such a simple one . 
Hm m as usual Sister Kate forgot it wasn't her funeral I mean , her wedding , '' retorted Cyril , dryly . 
Kate is never happy , you know , unless she's managing things . 
'' Yes , I know , '' nodded Marie , with a frowning smile of recollection at certain features of her own wedding . 
She doesn't approve of Billy's taste in guests , either , '' remarked Cyril , after a moment's silence . 
I thought her guests were lovely , '' spoke up Marie , in quick defense . 
'' Oh , of course Kate knows that but she says it seems as if Billy needn't have gone out and gathered in the lame and the halt and the blind . 
'' Nonsense ! '' cried Marie , with unusual sharpness for her . 
I suppose she said that just because of Mrs. Greggory's and Tommy Dunn's crutches . 
'' Yes Will told me . 
Billy's been following them up and doing little things for them ever since sugarplums and frosting on their cake , she calls it and they adore her , of course . 
His poor little face was so transfigured with joy that I almost cried , just to look at him . 
Billy says he loves music poor little fellow ! '' Well , I hope they'll be happy , in spite of Kate's doleful prophecies . 
Certainly they looked happy enough to day , '' declared Cyril , patting a yawn as he rose to his feet . 
I fancy Will and Aunt Hannah are lonesome , though , about now , '' he added . 
Yes , '' smiled Marie , mistily , as she gathered up her work . 
I know what Aunt Hannah's doing . 
She's helping Rosa put the house to rights , and she's stopping to cry over every slipper and handkerchief of Billy's she finds . 
Well , I know what Will is doing , '' he declared . 
Will is in Bertram's den dozing before the fireplace with Spunkie curled up in his lap . 
'' As it happened , both these surmises were not far from right . 
In the Strata , the Henshaws' old Beacon Street home , William was sitting before the fireplace with the cat in his lap , but he was not dozing . 
Spunkie , '' he was saying , your master , Bertram , got married to day and to Miss Billy . 
He'll be bringing her home one of these days your new mistress . 
blew in and blew out again before we scarcely knew they were here . 
That girl was Miss Billy , and she was a dear then , just as she is now , only now she's coming here to stay . 
She's coming home , Spunkie and she'll make it a home for you , for me , and for all of us . 
Up to now , you know , it hasn't really been a home , for years just us men , so . 
It'll be very different , Spunkie , as you'll soon find out . 
She was crying , too , over a glove she had found on Billy's piano but she was crying over something else , also . 
Not only had she lost Billy , but she had lost her home . 
To be sure , nothing had been said during that nightmare of a week of hurry and confusion about Aunt Hannah's future but Aunt Hannah knew very well how it must be . 
This dear little house on the side of Corey Hill was Billy's home , and Billy would not need it any longer . 
No wonder , indeed , that Aunt Hannah sat crying and patting the little white glove in her hand . 
No wonder , too , that being Aunt Hannah she reached for the shawl near by and put it on , shiveringly . 
Even July , to night , was cold to Aunt Hannah . 
In yet another home that evening was the wedding of Billy Neilson and Bertram Henshaw uppermost in thought and speech . 
Arkwright to night was plainly moody and ill at ease . 
You're not listening at all , '' complained Alice Greggory at last , reproachfully . 
With a visible effort the man roused himself . 
Indeed I am , '' he maintained . 
I thought you'd be interested in the wedding . 
You used to be friends you and Billy . 
'' The girl's voice still vibrated with reproach . 
There was a moment's silence then , a little harshly , the man said Perhaps because I wanted to be more than a friend is why you're not satisfied with my interest now . 
'' A look that was almost terror came to Alice Greggory's eyes . 
She flushed painfully , then grew very white . 
You mean '' Yes , '' he nodded dully , without looking up . 
I cared too much for her . 
I supposed Henshaw was just a friend till too late . 
'' There was a breathless hush before , a little unsteadily , the girl stammered Oh , I'm so sorry so very sorry ! I I didn't know . 
'' No , of course you didn't . 
I've almost told you , though , lots of times you've been so good to me all these weeks . 
'' He raised his head now , and looked at her , frank comradeship in his eyes . 
Her eyes swerved a little under his level gaze . 
Oh , but I've done nothing n nothing , '' she stammered . 
Then , at the light tap of crutches on a bare floor she turned in obvious relief . 
She's been in visiting with Mrs. Delano , our landlady . 
Mother , Mr. Arkwright is here . 
'' Meanwhile , speeding north as fast as steam could carry them , were the bride and groom . 
The wondrousness of the first hour of their journey side by side had become a joyous certitude that always it was to be like this now . 
Bertram , '' began the bride , after a long minute of eloquent silence . 
'' You know our wedding was very different from most weddings . 
'' Of course it was ! '' Yes , but really it was . 
'' The bride's voice grew tenderly earnest . 
I think our marriage is going to be different , too . 
'' Different ? '' Yes . 
'' Billy's tone was emphatic . 
No , no ! As Mr. Carleton is to Mrs. Carleton , I mean . 
'' Oh ! '' Bertram subsided in relief . 
And the Grahams and Whartons , and the Freddie Agnews , and and a lot of others . 
I don't mean quarrel , dear . 
Ours is going to be such a beautiful marriage ! '' Of course it will be . 
'' And we'll be so happy ! '' I shall be , and I shall try to make you so . 
'' As if I could be anything else , '' sighed Billy , blissfully . 
And now we can't have any misunderstandings , you see . 
Er what's that ? '' Why , I mean that that we can't ever repeat hose miserable weeks of misunderstanding . 
Everything is all explained up . 
I know , now , that you don't love Miss Winthrop , or just girls any girl to paint . 
Not the tilt of my chin , nor the turn of my head but me . 
'' I do just you . 
'' Bertram's eyes gave the caress his lips would have given had it not been for the presence of the man in the seat across the aisle of the sleeping car . 
And you you know now that I love you just you ? '' Not even Arkwright ? '' Not even Arkwright , '' smiled Billy . 
In Billy's opinion , a man's unrequited love for a girl was his secret , not hers , and was certainly one that the girl had no right to tell . 
Once before Bertram had asked her if she had ever cared for Arkwright , and then she had answered emphatically , as she did now Never , dear . 
'' I thought you said so , '' murmured Bertram , relaxing a little . 
I did besides , didn't I tell you ? '' she went on airily , I think he'll marry Alice Greggory . 
There was almost a romance there , I think , before the Greggorys lost their money and moved away from all their friends . 
'' Well , he may have her . 
She's a nice girl a mighty nice girl , '' answered Bertram , with the unmistakably satisfied air of the man who knows he himself possesses the nicest girl of them all . 
Billy , reading unerringly the triumph in his voice , grew suddenly grave . 
She regarded her husband with a thoughtful frown then she drew a profound sigh . 
Whew ! '' laughed Bertram , whimsically . 
So soon as this ? '' Bertram ! '' Billy's voice was tragic . 
'' The bridegroom pulled his face into sobriety then Billy spoke , with solemn impressiveness . 
Bertram , I don't know a thing about cooking except what I've been learning in Rosa's cook book this last week . 
'' Bertram laughed so loud that the man across the aisle glanced over the top of his paper surreptitiously . 
Rosa's cook book ! Is that what you were doing all this week ? '' Yes that is I tried so hard to learn something , '' stammered Billy . 
But I'm afraid I didn't much there were so many things for me to think of , you know , with only a week . 
I believe I could make peach fritters , though . 
They were the last thing I studied . 
'' Bertram laughed again , uproariously but , at Billy's unchangingly tragic face , he grew suddenly very grave and tender . 
Billy , dear , I didn't marry you to to get a cook , '' he said gently . 
I know but Aunt Hannah said that even if I never expected to cook , myself , I ought to know how it was done , so to properly oversee it . 
She said that that no woman , who didn't know how to cook and keep house properly , had any business to be a wife . 
And , Bertram , I did try , honestly , all this week . 
I tried so hard to remember when you sponged bread and when you kneaded it . 
'' I don't ever need yours , '' cut in Bertram , shamelessly but he got only a deservedly stern glance in return . 
Everything , everywhere was singing to me . 
As if anybody cared how many cupfuls of baking powder went anywhere with that in your heart ! '' Aunt Hannah says you will when you're hungry . 
And Kate said '' Bertram uttered a sharp word behind his teeth . 
Billy , for heaven's sake don't tell me what Kate said , if you want me to stay sane , and not attempt to fight somebody broken arm , and all . 
Kate thinks she's kind , and I suppose she means well but well , she's made trouble enough between us already . 
I've got you now , sweetheart . 
You're mine all mine '' his voice shook , and dropped to a tender whisper till death us do part . 
'' Yes till death us do part , '' breathed Billy . 
And then , for a time , they fell silent . 
I , Bertram , take thee , Billy , '' sang the whirring wheels beneath them , to one . 
I , Billy , take thee , Bertram , '' sang the whirring wheels beneath them , to the other . 
While straight ahead before them both , stretched fair and beautiful in their eyes , the wondrous path of life which they were to tread together . 
William went down at once . 
Well , Aunt Hannah , '' he began , reaching out a cordial hand . 
Why , what's the matter ? '' he broke off concernedly , as he caught a clearer view of the little old lady's drawn face and troubled eyes . 
William , it's silly , of course , '' cried Aunt Hannah , tremulously , but I simply had to go to some one . 
Why , no , '' he answered . 
It was all so hurried at the last , you know . 
There was really very little chance to make plans for anything except the wedding , '' he finished , with a smile . 
Yes , I know , '' sighed Aunt Hannah . 
Everything was in such confusion ! Still , I didn't know but she might have said something to you . 
'' No , she didn't . 
But I imagine it won't be hard to guess what she'll do . 
When they get back from their trip I fancy she won't lose much time in having what things she wants brought down here . 
Then she'll sell the rest and put the house on the market . 
'' Yes , of of course , '' stammered Aunt Hannah , pulling herself hastily to a more erect position . 
That's what I thought , too . 
Then don't you think we'd better dismiss Rosa and close the house at once ? '' Why yes , perhaps so . 
Why not ? Then you'd be all settled here when she comes home . 
I'm sure , the sooner you come , the better I'll be pleased , '' he smiled . 
Here ! '' she ejaculated . 
William Henshaw , you didn't suppose I was coming here to live , did you ? '' It was William's turn to look amazed . 
I shall take a room in some quiet boarding house , of course . 
'' Nonsense , Aunt Hannah ! As if Billy would listen to that ! You came before why not come now ? '' Aunt Hannah lifted her chin the fraction of an inch . 
Billy is a married woman now . 
'' Nonsense ! '' scowled William , again . 
Billy will always need you . 
'' Aunt Hannah shook her head mournfully . 
I like to think she wants me , William , but I know , in my heart , it isn't best . 
'' Why not ? '' There was a moment's pause then , decisively came the answer . 
Because I think young married folks should not have outsiders in the home . 
Oh , so that's it ! Well , Aunt Hannah , you're no outsider . 
Come , run right along home and pack your trunk . 
'' Aunt Hannah was plainly almost crying but she held her ground . 
William , I can't , '' she reiterated . 
But Billy is such a child , and '' For once in her circumspect life Aunt Hannah was guilty of an interruption . 
Pardon me , William , she is not a child . 
She is a woman now , and she has a woman's problems to meet . 
'' Well , then , why don't you help her meet them ? '' retorted William , still with a whimsical smile . 
But Aunt Hannah did not smile . 
I don't mean to spoil Billy's . 
The smile fled from his face . 
Why Aunt Hannah ! '' he exclaimed . 
The little old lady turned with a weary sigh . 
You are shocked , of course . 
I shouldn't have told you . 
Still , it is all past long ago , and I wanted to make you understand why I can't come . 
He was my husband's eldest brother a bachelor . 
He was good and kind , and meant well , I suppose but he interfered with everything . 
I was young , and probably headstrong . 
At all events , there was constant friction . 
He went away once and stayed two whole months . 
I shall never forget the utter freedom and happiness of those months for us , with the whole house to ourselves . 
No , William , I can't come . 
'' She rose abruptly and turned toward the door . 
Her eyes were wistful , and her face was still drawn with suffering but her whole frail little self quivered plainly with high resolve . 
'' But but , Aunt Hannah , '' began William , helplessly . 
She lifted a protesting hand . 
No , don't urge me , please . 
But I believe I won't close the house till Billy gets home , after all , '' she declared . 
'' Still dazedly William turned back into the house and dropped himself into the nearest chair . 
What a curious call it had been ! Aunt Hannah had not acted like herself at all . 
Still , of course she must have been once . 
Then he gave a low ejaculation and half sprang from his chair . 
Spunkie , disturbed from her doze by the fire , uttered a purring me o ow , '' and looked up inquiringly . 
There was no peace for William after that . 
'' Nor , turn which way he would , could he find anything to comfort him . 
Poor William ! Everywhere he met it the hint , the word , the story , the song , even and always it added its mite to the woeful whole . 
'' Unhappy , indeed , were these days for William . 
Like a lost spirit he wandered from room to room , touching this , fingering that . 
At other times , like a man without a home , he would go out into the Common or the Public Garden and sit for hours on some bench thinking . 
All this could have but one ending , of course . 
Before the middle of August William summoned Pete to his rooms . 
Oh , Pete , I'm going to move next week , '' he began nonchalantly . 
His voice sounded as if moving were a pleasurable circumstance that occurred in his life regularly once a month . 
I'd like you to begin to pack up these things , please , to morrow . 
'' The old servant's mouth fell open . 
You're goin' to to what , sir ? '' he stammered . 
Move move , I said . 
'' William spoke with unusual harshness . 
'' They didn't not you , sir . 
'' William turned abruptly , so that his face could not be seen . 
With stern deliberation he picked up an elaborately decorated teapot but the valuable bit of Lowestoft shook so in his hand that he set it down at once . 
It clicked sharply against its neighbor , betraying his nervous hand . 
And and who's goin' to take care of these ? '' he finished , with a glance that encompassed the overflowing cabinets and shelves of curios all about him . 
An affection that had its inception in his boyhood days shone in his eyes . 
The hand in which the Lowestoft had shaken rested now heavily on an old man's bent shoulder a shoulder that straightened itself in unconscious loyalty under the touch . 
Pete , you have spoiled me , and no mistake . 
I don't expect to find another like you . 
But maybe if I wear the woolen socks too late you'll come and hunt up the others for me . 
Eh ? '' And , with a smile that was meant to be quizzical , William turned and began to shift the teapots about again . 
But , Mr. William , why that is , what will Mr. Bertram and Miss Billy do without you ? '' ventured the old man . 
There was a sudden tinkling crash . 
On the floor lay the fragments of a silver luster teapot . 
The servant exclaimed aloud in dismay , but his master did not even glance toward his once treasured possession on the floor . 
Nonsense , Pete ! '' he was saying in a particularly cheery voice . 
CHAPTER III BILLY SPEAKS HER MIND Mr. and Mrs. Bertram Henshaw were expected home the first of September . 
The house had been very different then . 
Only Pete and his humble belongings occupied the top floor . 
Below this , however , came Billy's old rooms , and on these Pete had lavished all his skill and devotion . 
Freshly laundered curtains were at the windows , dustless rugs were on the floor . 
The old work basket had been brought down from the top floor storeroom , and the long closed piano stood invitingly open . 
In a conspicuous place , also , sat the little green god , upon whose exquisitely carved shoulders was supposed to rest the heap plenty velly good luckee'' of Dong Ling's prophecy . 
On the first floor Bertram's old rooms and the drawing room came in for their share of the general overhauling . 
Even Spunkie did not escape , but had to submit to the ignominy of a bath . 
And then dawned fair and clear the first day of September , bringing at five o'clock the bride and groom . 
Billy laughed and colored a pretty pink . 
Thank you all of you , '' she cried a little unsteadily . 
And how good , good everything does look to me ! Why , where's Uncle William ? '' she broke off , casting hurriedly anxious eyes about her . 
Well , I should say so , '' echoed Bertram . 
Where is he , Pete ? He isn't sick , is he ? '' A quick change crossed the old servant's face . 
He shook his head dumbly . 
Billy gave a gleeful laugh . 
I know he's asleep ! '' she caroled , skipping to the bottom of the stairway and looking up Ho , Uncle William ! Better wake up , sir . 
The folks have come ! '' Pete cleared his throat . 
Mr. William isn't here , Miss ma'am , '' he corrected miserably . 
Billy smiled , but she frowned , too . 
I'm glad I did , too , for our trunks didn't come , '' she continued laughingly . 
They're Batterseas the real article . 
I know enough for that and they're finer than anything he's got . 
Won't he be pleased ? '' Yes , Miss ma'am , I mean , '' stammered the old man . 
These new titles come hard , don't they , Pete ? '' laughed Bertram . 
Never mind , Pete , '' soothed his new mistress . 
You shall call me Miss Billy' all your life if you want to . 
Bertram , '' she added , turning to her husband , I'm going to just run up stairs and put these in Uncle William's rooms so they'll be there when he comes in . 
We'll see how soon he discovers them ! '' Before Pete could stop her she was half way up the first flight of stairs . 
Even then he tried to speak to his young master , to explain that Mr. William was not living there but the words refused to come . 
He could only stand dumbly waiting . 
In a minute it came Billy's sharp , startled cry . 
Bertram ! Bertram ! '' Bertram sprang for the stairway , but he had not reached the top when he met his wife coming down . 
She was white faced and trembling . 
Bertram those rooms there's not so much as a teapot there ! Uncle William's gone ! '' Gone ! '' Bertram wheeled sharply . 
Pete , what is the meaning of this ? Where is my brother ? '' To hear him , one would think he suspected the old servant of having hidden his master . 
Pete lifted a shaking hand and fumbled with his collar . 
'' Moved ! Oh , you mean to other rooms to Cyril's . 
'' Pete shook his head . 
He's moved away out of the house , sir . 
'' For a brief moment Bertram stared as if he could not believe what his ears had heard . 
Then , step by step , he began to descend the stairs . 
Do you mean to say that my brother has moved gone away left his home ? '' he demanded . 
'' Billy gave a low cry . 
But why why ? '' she choked , almost stumbling headlong down the stairway in her effort to reach the two men at the bottom . 
Pete , why did he go ? '' There was no answer . 
'' Billy laid one hand on the old servant's arm in the other hand she still tightly clutched the mirror knobs . 
Pete , if you do know , won't you tell us , please ? '' she begged . 
Pete looked down at the hand , then up at the troubled young face with the beseeching eyes . 
His own features worked convulsively . 
With a visible effort he cleared his throat . 
I know what he said , '' he stammered , his eyes averted . 
What was it ? '' There was no answer . 
Look here , Pete , you'll have to tell us , you know , '' cut in Bertram , decisively , so you might as well do it now as ever . 
'' Once more Pete cleared his throat . 
This time the words came in a burst of desperation . 
It was only that he said he said as how young folks didn't need any one else around . 
'' Didn't need any one else ! '' exclaimed Bertram , plainly not comprehending . 
You two bein' married so , now . 
'' Pete's eyes were still averted . 
Billy gave a low cry . 
You mean because I came ? '' she demanded . 
Why , yes , Miss no that is '' Pete stopped with an appealing glance at Bertram . 
Then it was it was on account of me , '' choked Billy . 
Pete looked still more distressed No , no ! '' he faltered . 
It was only that he thought you wouldn't want him here now . 
'' Want him here ! '' ejaculated Bertram . 
Want him here ! '' echoed Billy , with a sob . 
It's just down the street a bit and up the hill , '' he added excitedly , divining her purpose . 
It's a sort of a boarding house , I reckon . 
'' A boarding house for Uncle William ! '' scorned Billy , her eyes ablaze . 
Come , Bertram , we'll see about that . 
'' Bertram reached out a detaining hand . 
But , dearest , you're so tired , '' he demurred . 
Hadn't we better wait till after dinner , or till to morrow ? '' After dinner ! To morrow ! '' Billy's eyes blazed anew . 
If you'd just eat your dinner ! '' Dinner ! '' choked Billy . 
I wonder if you think I could eat any dinner with Uncle William turned out of his home ! I'm going to find Uncle William . 
'' And she stumbled blindly toward the door . 
Bertram reached for his hat . 
He threw a despairing glance into Pete's eyes . 
We'll be back when we can , '' he said , with a frown . 
Yes , sir , '' answered Pete , respectfully . 
Then , as if impelled by some hidden force , he touched his master's arm . 
It was that way she looked , sir , when she came to you that night last July with her eyes all shining , '' he whispered . 
A tender smile curved Bertram's lips . 
The frown vanished from his face . 
Bless you , Pete and bless her , too ! '' he whispered back . 
The next moment he had hurried after his wife . 
No , Mr. William Henshaw was not in his rooms . 
In fact , he was very seldom there . 
His business , she believed , called him to State Street through the day . 
Outside of that , she had been told , he spent much time sitting on a bench in the Common . 
Doubtless , if they cared to search , they could find him there now . 
A bench in the Common , indeed ! '' stormed Billy , as she and Bertram hurried down the wide stone steps . 
Uncle William on a bench ! '' But surely now , dear , '' ventured her husband , you'll come home and get your dinner ! '' Billy turned indignantly . 
And Bertram , with the eyes all shining'' still before him , could only murmur No , of course not , dear ! '' and follow obediently where she led . 
Under ordinary circumstances it would have been a delightful hour for a walk . 
The sun had almost set , and the shadows lay long across the grass . 
The air was cool and unusually bracing for a day so early in September . 
But all this was lost on Bertram . 
Bertram did not wish to take a walk . 
He wanted his dinner and he wanted , too , his old home with his new wife flitting about the rooms as he had pictured this first evening together . 
He wanted William , of course . 
Certainly he wanted William but if William would insist on running away and sitting on park benches in this ridiculous fashion , he ought to take the consequences until to morrow . 
Five , ten , fifteen minutes passed . 
Up one path and down another trudged the anxious eyed Billy and her increasingly impatient husband . 
Then when the fifteen weary minutes had become a still more weary half hour , the bonds Bertram had set on his temper snapped . 
He probably has gone home . 
Won't you come home ? '' But Billy had not even heard . 
With a glad little cry she had darted to the side of the humped up figure of a man alone on a park bench just ahead of them . 
The bent shoulders and bowed head straightened up with a jerk . 
Well , well , bless my soul ! If it isn't our little bride , '' cried Uncle William , fondly . 
And the happy bridegroom , too . 
When did you get home ? '' We haven't got home , '' retorted Bertram , promptly , before his wife could speak . 
Oh , we looked in at the door an hour or so back but we didn't stay . 
We've been hunting for you ever since . 
'' Nonsense , children ! '' Uncle William spoke with gay cheeriness but he refused to meet either Billy's or Bertram's eyes . 
Uncle William , how could you do it ? '' reproached Billy , again . 
Do what ? '' Uncle William was plainly fencing for time . 
Leave the house like that ? '' Ho ! I wanted a change . 
'' As if we'd believe that ! '' scoffed Billy . 
All right let's call it you've had the change , then , '' laughed Bertram , and we'll send over for your things to morrow . 
Come now let's go home to dinner . 
'' William shook his head . 
He essayed a gay smile . 
Why , I've only just begun . 
I'm going to stay oh , I don't know how long I'm going to stay , '' he finished blithely . 
Billy lifted her chin a little . 
Uncle William , you aren't playing square . 
Pete told us what you said when you left . 
'' Eh ? What ? '' William looked up with startled eyes . 
About about our not needing you . 
So we know , now , why you left and we sha'n't stand it . 
'' Pete ? That ? Oh , that that's nonsense I I'll settle with Pete . 
We simply dragged it out of him . 
And now we're here to tell you that we do want you , and that you must come back . 
'' Again William shook his head . 
A swift shadow crossed his face . 
Thank you , no , children , '' he said dully . 
You're very kind , but you don't need me . 
I should be just an interfering elder brother . 
I should spoil your young married life . 
'' If I went away and stayed two months , you'd never forget the utter freedom and joy of those two whole months with the house all to yourselves . 
'' Uncle William , '' gasped Billy , what are you talking about ? '' About about my not going back , of course . 
'' But you are coming back , '' cut in Bertram , almost angrily . 
Oh , come , Will , this is utter nonsense , and you know it ! Come , let's go home to dinner . 
'' A stern look came to the corners of William's mouth a look that Bertram understood well . 
All right , I'll go to dinner , of course but I sha'n't stay , '' said William , firmly . 
I've thought it all out . 
Come , we'll go to dinner now , and say no more about it , '' he finished with a cheery smile , as he rose to his feet . 
In the fast falling twilight her face looked a little white . 
I just go , '' corrected Uncle William , gayly . 
With superb disdain Billy brushed this aside . 
Oh , no , you won't , '' she declared but I shall . 
'' Billy ! '' gasped Bertram . 
My my dear ! '' expostulated William , faintly . 
Uncle William ! Bertram ! Listen , '' panted Billy . 
I never told you much before , but I'm going to , now . 
Long ago , when I went away with Aunt Hannah , your sister Kate showed me how dear the old home was to you how much you thought of it . 
And she said she said that I had upset everything . 
That's why I went and I shall go again if you don't come home to morrow to stay , Uncle William . 
Come , now let's go to dinner , please . 
Bertram's hungry , '' she finished , with a bright smile . 
There was a tense moment of silence . 
William glanced at Bertram Bertram returned the glance with interest . 
Er ah yes well , we might go to dinner , '' stammered William , after a minute . 
Er yes , '' agreed Bertram . 
And the three fell into step together . 
CHAPTER IV JUST LIKE BILLY'' Billy did not leave the Strata this time . 
Every treasure was in place , from the traditional four small stones of his babyhood days to the Batterseas Billy had just brought him . 
Pete , as of yore , was hovering near with a dust cloth . 
Bertram's gay whistle sounded from the floor below . 
William Henshaw was at home again . 
This much accomplished , Billy went to see Aunt Hannah . 
Aunt Hannah greeted her affectionately , though with tearfully troubled eyes . 
She was wearing a gray shawl to day topped with a black one sure sign of unrest , either physical or mental , as all her friends knew . 
I'd begun to think you'd forgotten me , '' she faltered , with a poor attempt at gayety . 
You've been home three whole days . 
'' I know , dearie , '' smiled Billy and 'twas a shame . 
But I have been so busy ! My trunks came at last , and I've been helping Uncle William get settled , too . 
'' Aunt Hannah looked puzzled . 
Uncle William get settled ? You mean he's changed his room ? '' Billy laughed oddly , and threw a swift glance into Aunt Hannah's face . 
Well , yes , he did change , '' she murmured but he's moved back now into the old quarters . 
Er you haven't heard from Uncle William then , lately , I take it . 
'' No. '' Aunt Hannah shook her head abstractedly . 
I did see him once , several weeks ago but I haven't , since . 
We had quite a talk , then and , Billy , I've been wanting to speak to you , '' she hurried on , a little feverishly . 
I didn't like to leave , of course , till you did come home , as long as you'd said nothing about your plans but '' Leave ! '' interposed Billy , dazedly . 
Leave where ? What do you mean ? '' Why , leave here , of course , dear . 
I didn't like to get my room while you were away but I shall now , of course , at once . 
'' Nonsense , Aunt Hannah ! As if I'd let you do that , '' laughed Billy . 
Her lips looked suddenly thin and determined . 
Even the soft little curls above her ears seemed actually to bristle with resolution . 
Billy , '' she began firmly , we might as well understand each other at once . 
I know your good heart , and I appreciate your kindness . 
But I can not come to live with you . 
I should be like an interfering elder brother in your home . 
Then Billy sat suddenly erect . 
Why , Aunt Hannah , that's exactly what Uncle William '' Billy stopped , and regarded Aunt Hannah with quick suspicion . 
The next moment she burst into gleeful laughter . 
Aunt Hannah looked grieved , and not a little surprised but Billy did not seem to notice this . 
Oh , oh , Aunt Hannah you , too ! How perfectly funny ! '' she gurgled . 
To think you two old blesseds should get your heads together like this ! '' Aunt Hannah stirred restively , and pulled the black shawl more closely about her . 
'' Bless your heart , dear , I don't want you to , '' soothed Billy , with gay promptness . 
Oh ! O h h , '' stammered Aunt Hannah , surprise , mortification , dismay , and a grieved hurt bringing a flood of color to her face . 
It is one thing to refuse a home , and quite another to have a home refused you . 
Oh ! O h h , Aunt Hannah , '' cried Billy , turning very red in her turn . 
Please , please don't look like that . 
I didn't mean it that way . 
I do want you , dear , only I want you somewhere else more . 
'' Here ! '' Aunt Hannah looked relieved , but unconvinced . 
Don't you like it here ? '' Like it ! Why , I love it , dear . 
But you don't need this house now , Billy . 
'' Oh , yes , I do , '' retorted Billy , airily . 
I'm going to keep it up , and I want you here . 
Fiddlededee , Billy ! As if I'd let you keep up this house just for me , '' scorned Aunt Hannah . 
It's for for lots of folks . 
'' My grief and conscience , Billy ! What are you talking about ? '' Billy laughed , and settled herself more comfortably on the hassock at Aunt Hannah's feet . 
Well , I'll tell you . 
Just now I want it for Tommy Dunn , and the Greggorys if I can get them , and maybe one or two others . 
You see , I had thought I'd have them at the Strata . 
'' Tommy Dunn at the Strata ! '' Billy laughed again ruefully . 
O dear ! You sound just like Bertram , '' she pouted . 
He didn't want Tommy , either , nor any of the rest of them . 
I got real enthusiastic , but Bertram didn't . 
Aunt Hannah regarded her with fond , though slightly exasperated eyes . 
Billy , you are , indeed , a most extraordinary young woman at times . 
Surely , with you , a body never knows what to expect except the unexpected . 
'' Why , Aunt Hannah ! and from you , too ! '' reproached Billy , mischievously but Aunt Hannah had yet more to say . 
Of course Bertram thought it was nonsense . 
And you'll do that for me , won't you ? '' Aunt Hannah fell back in her chair . 
Why , y yes , Billy , of course , if if you want it . 
But what an extraordinary idea , child ! '' Billy shook her head . 
A deeper color came to her cheeks , and a softer glow to her eyes . 
I don't think so , Aunt Hannah . 
I'm going to call it the Annex it will be an annex to our home . 
Don't you see ? '' Oh , yes , I see , '' replied Aunt Hannah , with a fond shake of the head . 
But , really , listen it's sensible , '' urged Billy . 
His mother died last month . 
He's at a neighbor's now , but they're going to send him to a Home for Crippled Children and he's grieving his heart out over it . 
I'm going to bring him here to a real home the kind that doesn't begin with a capital letter . 
He adores music , and he's got real talent , I think . 
'' Aunt Hannah looked dubious . 
You can't get the Greggorys to to use any of that happiness , Billy . 
I know I can't get them to use it , Aunt Hannah , but I believe I can get them to give it , '' she declared triumphantly . 
'' Oh , but Billy , '' bridled Aunt Hannah , with prompt objection . 
Tut , tut ! I know you'll be willing to be thrown as a little bit of a sop to the Greggorys' pride , '' coaxed Billy . 
You just wait till I get the Overflow Annex in running order . 
The black shawl had fallen unheeded to the floor now . 
'' Oh , my grief and conscience , Billy , don't ! '' exclaimed Aunt Hannah , lifting shocked hands of remonstrance . 
Rap on wood do ! How can you boast like that ? '' Billy dimpled roguishly and sprang to her feet . 
? ? Why , Aunt Hannah , I'm ashamed of you ! To be superstitious like that you , a good Presbyterian ! '' Aunt Hannah subsided shamefacedly . 
Yes , I know , Billy , it is silly but I just can't help it . 
'' Oh , but it's worse than silly , Aunt Hannah , '' teased Billy , with a remorseless chuckle . 
'' Ugh ! '' shuddered Aunt Hannah . 
As if I would , Billy ! How is Bertram , by the by ? '' A swift shadow crossed Billy's bright face . 
He's lovely only his arm . 
'' His arm ! But I thought that was better . 
'' Oh , it is , '' drooped Billy , but it gets along so slowly , and it frets him dreadfully . 
Did you know it ? '' Dong Ling leave ! '' Yes . 
But I don't think Bertram thought he'd do it . 
Yes Pete was furious , William says , but Dong Ling didn't mean any disrespect , I'm sure . 
He just wasn't used to having petticoats around , and didn't want to take orders from them that's all . 
'' But , Billy , what will you do ? '' Oh , Pete's fixed all that lovely , '' returned Billy , nonchalantly . 
You know his niece lives over in South Boston , and it seems she's got a daughter who's a fine cook and will be glad to come . 
Mercy ! Look at the time , '' she broke off , glancing at the clock . 
I shall be late to dinner , and Dong Ling loathes anybody who's late to his meals as I found out to my sorrow the night we got home . 
I'll be out soon again and fix it all up about the Annex , you know . 
'' And with a bright smile she was gone . 
, for it gave Bertram more time to be with her . 
'' You certainly are not , '' he retorted , with a smile . 
Then I may be just as happy as I like over it , '' settled Billy , comfortably . 
As if you ever could hinder me , '' he ridiculed . 
Oh , yes , I could , '' nodded Billy , emphatically . 
That was what worried me so . 
Everybody , even the newspapers and magazines , said I would do it , too . 
They said I'd slay your Art , stifle your Ambition , destroy your Inspiration , and be a nuisance generally . 
And Kate said '' Yes . 
Well , never mind what Kate said , '' interrupted the man , savagely . 
Billy laughed , and gave his ear a playful tweak . 
All right but I'm not going to do it , you know spoil your career , sir . 
You just wait , '' she continued dramatically . 
You witch ! '' laughed the man , fondly . 
Why , Billy , you couldn't hinder me . 
You'll be my inspiration , dear , instead of slaying it . 
This time Marguerite Winthrop's portrait is going to be a success . 
Then you are that is , you haven't I mean , you're going to paint it ? '' I just am , '' avowed the artist . 
And this time it'll be a success , too , with you to help . 
'' Billy drew in her breath tremulously . 
I didn't know but you'd already started it , '' she faltered . 
No. After the other one failed , and Mr. Winthrop asked me to try again , I couldn't then . 
I was so troubled over you . 
That's the time you did hinder me , '' he smiled . 
Then came your note breaking the engagement . 
Of course I knew too much to attempt a thing like that portrait then . 
But now now ! '' The pause and the emphasis were eloquent . 
Of course , now , '' nodded Billy , brightly , but a little feverishly . 
And when do you begin ? '' Not till January . 
Miss Winthrop won't be back till then . 
I saw J. G. last week , and I told him I'd accept his offer to try again . 
'' What did he say ? '' He gave my left hand a big grip and said Good ! and you'll win out this time . 
'' Of course you will , '' nodded Billy , again , though still a little feverishly . 
Oh , you'll see what a fine artist's wife I'll make ! '' The very best , '' declared Bertram so ardently that Billy blushed , and shook her head in reproof . 
Nonsense ! I wasn't fishing . 
I didn't mean it that way , '' she protested . 
Then , as he tried to catch her , she laughed and danced teasingly out of his reach . 
Because Bertram could not paint , therefore , Billy had him quite to herself these October days nor did she hesitate to appropriate him . 
Neither , on his part , was Bertram loath to be appropriated . 
Even William , roused from his after dinner doze by peals of laughter , was sometimes inveigled into activities that left him breathless , but curiously aglow . 
While Pete , polishing silver in the dining room down stairs , smiled indulgently at the merry clatter above and forgot the teasing pain in his side . 
But it was not all nonsense with Billy , nor gay laughter . 
Thus far , certainly , the cares of matrimony had rested anything but heavily upon the shapely young shoulders of the new wife . 
Domestic affairs at the Strata moved like a piece of well oiled machinery . 
cooked like an angel and minded her own business like a man . 
Pete , as of yore , had full charge of the house and a casual eye would see few changes . 
Even the brothers themselves saw few , for that matter . 
She had summoned Pete , too , for three mornings in succession , and with great dignity had ordered the meals for the day . 
Billy was not idle , however far from it . 
First , there were the delightful hours with Bertram . 
Then there was her music Billy was writing a new song the best she had ever written , Billy declared . 
Why , Bertram , it can't help being that , '' she said to her husband , one day . 
The words just sang themselves to me right out of my heart and the melody just dropped down from the sky . 
And now , everywhere , I'm hearing the most wonderful harmonies . 
The whole universe is singing to me . 
There were the more intimate friends to be seen , also , and Cyril and Marie to be visited . 
And always there was the Annex . 
The Annex was in fine running order now , and was a source of infinite satisfaction to its founder and great happiness to its beneficiaries . 
Tommy Dunn was there , learning wonderful things from books and still more wonderful things from the piano in the living room . 
Alice Greggory and her mother were there , too the result of much persuasion . 
Not that the house was full , either . 
There were still two unoccupied rooms . 
But then , I'm glad there are , '' Billy had declared , for there's sure to be some one that I'll want to send there . 
'' Some one , did you say ? '' Bertram had retorted , meaningly but his wife had disdained to answer this . 
Billy herself was frequently at the Annex . 
She told Aunt Hannah that she had to come often to bring the happiness it accumulated so fast . 
Certainly she always found plenty to do there , whenever she came . 
'' Billy knew that some day at the Annex she would meet Mr. M. J. Arkwright and she told herself that she hoped she should . 
since the day he had left her presence in white faced , stony eyed misery after declaring his love for her , and learning of her engagement to Bertram . 
Since then , she knew , he had been much with his old friend , Alice Greggory . 
She did not believe , should she see him now , that he would be either white faced , or stony eyed . 
His heart , she was sure , had gone where it ought to have gone in the first place to Alice . 
Very decidedly , therefore , Billy wished to meet Arkwright . 
Very pleased , consequently , was she when , one day , coming into the living room at the Annex , she found the man sitting by the fire . 
Arkwright was on his feet at once . 
Miss Mrs. H Henshaw , '' he stammered Oh , Mr. Arkwright , '' she cried , with just a shade of nervousness in her voice as she advanced , her hand outstretched . 
I'm glad to see you . 
I wanted to see Miss Greggory , '' he murmured . 
Then , as the unconscious rudeness of his reply dawned on him , he made matters infinitely worse by an attempted apology . 
That is , I mean I didn't mean '' he began to stammer miserably . 
Some girls might have tossed the floundering man a straw in the shape of a light laugh intended to turn aside all embarrassment but not Billy . 
Billy held out a frankly helping hand that was meant to set the man squarely on his feet at her side . 
Mr. Arkwright , don't , please , '' she begged earnestly . 
You and I don't need to beat about the bush . 
I am glad to see you , and I hope you're glad to see me . 
I left her up stairs . 
She'll be down at once , I dare say I met Rosa going up with your card . 
Good by , '' she finished with a bright smile , as she turned and walked rapidly from the room . 
Outside , on the steps , Billy drew a long breath . 
There , '' she whispered that's over and well over ! '' The next minute she frowned vexedly . 
She had missed her glove . 
Never mind ! I sha'n't go back in there for it now , anyway , '' she decided . 
In the living room , five minutes later , Alice Greggory found only a hastily scrawled note waiting for her . 
If you'll forgive the unforgivable , '' she read you'll forgive me for not being here when you come down . 
Circumstances over which I have no control have called me away . 
May we let it go at that ? M. J. ARKWRIGHT . 
As Alice Greggory's amazed , questioning eyes left the note they fell upon the long white glove on the floor by the door . 
Half mechanically she crossed the room and picked it up but almost at once she dropped it with a low cry . 
Billy ! He saw Billy ! '' Then a flood of understanding dyed her face scarlet as she turned and fled to the blessedly unseeing walls of her own room . 
Not ten minutes later Rosa tapped at her door with a note . 
It's from Mr. Arkwright , Miss . 
'' Rosa's eyes were puzzled , and a bit startled . 
Mr. Arkwright ! '' Yes , Miss . 
That is , I didn't know he'd went but he must have , for he's come again now . 
He wrote something in a little book then he tore it out and gave it to me . 
He said he'd wait , please , for an answer . 
'' Oh , very well , Rosa . 
'' Miss Greggory took the note and spoke with an elaborate air of indifference that was meant to express a calm ignoring of the puzzled questioning in the other's eyes . 
The next moment she read this in Arkwright's peculiar scrawl If you've already forgiven the unforgivable , you'll do it again , I know , and come down stairs . 
Won't you , please ? I want to see you . 
'' Miss Greggory lifted her head with a jerk . 
Her face was a painful red . 
Tell Mr. Arkwright I can't possibly '' She came to an abrupt pause . 
Her eyes had encountered Rosa's , and in Rosa's eyes the puzzled questioning was plainly fast becoming a shrewd suspicion . 
There was the briefest of hesitations then , lightly , Miss Greggory tossed the note aside . 
Tell Mr. Arkwright I'll be down at once , please , '' she directed carelessly , as she turned back into the room . 
But she was not down at once . 
I thought it was only women who were privileged to change their mind , '' she began brightly but Arkwright ignored her attempt to conventionalize the situation . 
Thank you for coming down , '' he said , with a weariness that instantly drove the forced smile from the girl's lips . 
I I wanted to to talk to you . 
'' Yes ? '' She seated herself and motioned him to a chair near her . 
He took the seat , and then fell silent , his eyes out the window . 
I thought you said you you wanted to talk , she reminded him nervously , after a minute . 
'' He turned with disconcerting abruptness . 
Alice , I'm going to tell you a story . 
'' I shall be glad to listen . 
People always like stories , don't they ? '' Do they ? '' The somber pain in Arkwright's eyes deepened . 
Alice Greggory did not know it , but he was thinking of another story he had once told in that same room . 
Billy was his listener then , while now A little precipitately he began to speak . 
When I was a very small boy I went to visit my uncle , who , in his young days , had been quite a hunter . 
Before the fireplace in his library was a huge tiger skin with a particularly lifelike head . 
The first time I saw it I screamed , and ran and hid . 
I refused then even to go into the room again . 
My cousins urged , scolded , pleaded , and laughed at me by turns , but I was obdurate . 
By sheer will power he forced me to go with him straight up to the dreaded creature , and stand by its side . 
He laid one of my shrinking hands on the beast's smooth head , and thrust the other one quite into the open red mouth with its gleaming teeth . 
You see , he said , there's absolutely nothing to fear . 
He can't possibly hurt you . 
Now remember , he charged me . 
Never run and hide again . 
Walk straight up and face the thing . 
Ten to one you'll find it's nothing but a dead skin masquerading as the real thing . 
Even if it isn't if it's alive face it . 
Find a weapon and fight it . 
Know that you are going to conquer it and you'll conquer . 
Men don't run , my boy ! '' Arkwright paused , and drew a long breath . 
He did not look at the girl in the opposite chair . 
If he had looked he would have seen a face transfigured . 
Even as a kid I began , then , to try not to run . 
I've tried ever since But to day I did run . 
'' Arkwright's voice had been getting lower and lower . 
The last three words would have been almost inaudible to ears less sensitively alert than were Alice Greggory's . 
Alice , I don't need to tell you , after what I said the other night , that I loved Billy Neilson . 
That was bad enough , for I found she was pledged to another man . 
But to day I discovered something worse I discovered that I loved Billy Henshaw another man's wife . 
I'm going to face the thing . 
Oh , I'm not deceiving myself ! This love of mine is no dead tiger skin . 
It's a beast , alive and alert God pity me ! to destroy my very soul . 
But I'm going to fight it and I want you to help me . 
'' The girl gave a half smothered cry . 
The man turned , but he could not see her face distinctly . 
Twilight had come , and the room was full of shadows . 
He hesitated , then went on , a little more quietly . 
That's why I've told you all this so you would help me . 
And you will , won't you ? '' There was no answer . 
Once again he tried to see her face , but it was turned now quite away from him . 
You've been a big help already , little girl . 
Your friendship , your comradeship they've been everything to me . 
You're not going to make me do without them now ? '' No oh , no ! '' The answer was low and a little breathless but he heard it . 
'' He paused , then rose to his feet . 
When he spoke again his voice carried a note of whimsical lightness that was a little forced . 
But I must go else you will take them from me , and with good reason . 
And please don't let your kind heart grieve too much over me . 
I'm no deep dyed villain in a melodrama , nor wicked lover in a ten penny novel , you know . 
I'm just an everyday man in real life and we're going to fight this thing out in everyday living . 
That's where your help is coming in . 
We'll go together to see Mrs. Bertram Henshaw . 
She's asked us to , and you'll do it , I know . 
We'll have music and everyday talk . 
We'll see Mrs. Bertram Henshaw in her own home with her husband , where she belongs and I'm not going to run again . 
But I'm counting on your help , you know , '' he smiled a little wistfully , as he held out his hand in good by . 
One minute later Alice Greggory , alone , was hurrying up stairs . 
I can't I can't I know I can't , '' she was whispering wildly . 
Then , in her own room , she faced herself in the mirror . 
Yes you can , Alice Greggory , '' she asserted , with swift change of voice and manner . 
This is your tiger skin , and you're going to fight it . 
Do you understand ? fight it ! And you're going to win , too . 
Do you want that man to know you care ? '' CHAPTER VI THE PAINTING LOOK'' It was toward the last of October that Billy began to notice her husband's growing restlessness . 
Twice , when she had been playing to him , she turned to find him testing the suppleness of his injured arm . 
Several times , failing to receive an answer to her questions , she had looked up to discover him gazing abstractedly at nothing in particular . 
But Bertram did not seem even to hear her . 
True , he leaped to his feet and hurried to meet her , his face radiantly aglow but she had not ceased to speak before he himself was talking . 
Billy , Billy , I've been sketching , '' he cried . 
My hand is almost steady . 
See , some of those lines are all right ! I just picked up a crayon and '' He stopped abruptly , his eyes on Billy's face . 
A vaguely troubled shadow crossed his own . 
Did did you were you saying anything in in particular , when you came in ? '' he stammered . 
For a short half minute Billy looked at her husband without speaking . 
Then , a little queerly , she laughed . 
Oh , no , nothing at all in particular , '' she retorted airily . 
Advancing toward her husband she held them out dramatically . 
And now paint , my lord , paint ! '' she commanded him , with stern insistence , as she thrust them into his hands . 
Oh , I say , Billy , '' he began but Billy had gone . 
Out in the hall Billy was speeding up stairs , talking fiercely to herself . 
We'll , Billy Neilson Henshaw , it's come ! Now behave yourself . 
That was the painting look ! You know what that means . 
Remember , he belongs to his Art before he does to you . 
Kate and everybody says so . 
And you you expected him to tend to you and your silly little songs . 
Were you speaking to me , my dear ? '' Billy looked up . 
Her face cleared suddenly , and she laughed though a little ruefully . 
No , Uncle William , I wasn't talking to you , '' she sighed . 
I was just just administering first aid to the injured , '' she finished , as she whisked into her own room . 
Well , well , bless the child ! What can she mean by that ? '' puzzled Uncle William , turning to go down the stairway . 
Bertram began to paint a very little the next day . 
He painted still more the next , and yet more again the day following . 
He was like a bird let out of a cage , so joyously alive was he . 
The old sparkle came back to his eye , the old gay smile to his lips . 
Then she scolded herself roundly for asking the question at all . 
They were not easy those days for Billy , though always to Bertram she managed to show a cheerfully serene face . 
To Uncle William , also , and to Aunt Hannah she showed a smiling countenance and because she could not talk to anybody else of her feelings , she talked to herself . 
This , however , was no new thing for Billy to do From earliest childhood she had fought things out in like manner . 
'' But I'm not objecting , '' stormed the other half of herself . 
I'm telling him to do it . 
It's only that he's so so pleased to do it . 
He doesn't seem to mind a bit being away from me . 
He's actually happy ! '' Well , don't you want him to be happy in his work ? Fie ! For shame ! A fine artist's wife you are . 
It seems Kate was right , then you are going to spoil his career ! '' Ho ! '' quoth Billy , and tossed her head . 
Forthwith she crossed the room to her piano and plumped herself down hard on to the stool . 
Then , from under her fingers there fell a rollicking melody that seemed to fill the room with little dancing feet . 
Faster and faster sped Billy's fingers swifter and swifter twinkled the little dancing feet . 
Then a door was jerked open , and Bertram's voice called Billy ! '' The music stopped instantly . 
Billy sprang from her seat , her eyes eagerly seeking the direction from which had come the voice . 
Perhaps perhaps Bertram wanted her . 
Perhaps he was not going to paint any longer that morning , after all . 
Billy ! '' called the voice again . 
Why , no , of course not , dear . 
I knew you wouldn't , '' sighed Bertram . 
For a long minute Billy stood motionless before she glanced at her watch and sped to the telephone . 
Is Miss Greggory there , Rosa ? '' she called when the operator's ring was answered . 
Mis' Greggory , the lame one ? '' No Miss Greggory Miss Alice . 
'' Then won't you ask her to come to the telephone , please . 
'' There was a moment's wait , during which Billy's small , well shod foot beat a nervous tattoo on the floor . 
Oh , is that you , Alice ? '' she called then . 
Are you going to be home for an hour or two ? '' Why , y yes yes , indeed . 
'' Then I'm coming over . 
We'll play duets , sing anything . 
'' Do ! And Mr. Arkwright is here . 
'' Mr. Arkwright ? You say he's there ? Then I won't Yes , I will , too . 
'' Billy spoke with renewed firmness . 
I'll be there right away . 
'' And she hung up the receiver , and went to tell Pete to order John and Peggy at once . 
I suppose I ought to have left Alice and Mr. Arkwright alone together , '' muttered the young wife feverishly , as she hurriedly prepared for departure . 
But I'll make it up to them later . 
I'm going to give them lots of chances . 
Then , rested , refreshed , and at peace with all the world , she hurried home to dinner and to Bertram . 
There ! I feel better , '' she sighed , as she took off her hat in her own room and now I'll go find Bertram . 
Bless his heart of course he didn't want me to play when he was so busy ! '' Billy went straight to the studio , but Bertram was not there . 
Neither was he in William's room , nor anywhere in the house . 
Down stairs in the dining room Pete was found looking rather white , leaning back in a chair . 
He struggled at once to his feet , however , as his mistress entered the room . 
Billy hurried forward with a startled exclamation . 
Why , Pete , what is it ? Are you sick ? '' she cried , her glance encompassing the half set table . 
No , ma'am oh , no , ma'am ! '' The old man stumbled forward and began to arrange the knives and forks . 
It's just a pesky pain beggin' yer pardon in my side . 
'' Billy frowned and shook her head . 
Her eyes were on Pete's palpably trembling hands . 
But , Pete , you are sick , '' she protested . 
'' Pete drew himself stiffly erect . 
The color had begun to come back to his face . 
There hain't no one set this table much but me for more'n fifty years , an' I've got a sort of notion that nobody can do it just ter suit me . 
Besides , I'm better now . 
'' But , Pete , what is it ? How long have you had it ? '' I hain't had it any time , steady . 
It's the comin' an' goin' kind . 
There , ye see ? I'm pert as a sparrer , now ! '' And , with stiff celerity , Pete resumed his task . 
That isn't right , Pete , '' she demurred , with a slow shake of her head . 
You should see a doctor . 
'' The old man paled a little . 
He had seen a doctor , and he had not liked what the doctor had told him . 
In fact , he stubbornly refused to believe what the doctor had said . 
He straightened himself now a little aggressively . 
Humph ! Beggin' yer pardon , Miss ma'am , but I don't think much o' them doctor chaps . 
'' Billy shook her head again as she smiled and turned away . 
Then , as if casually , she asked Oh , did Mr. Bertram go out , Pete ? '' Yes , Miss about five o'clock . 
He said he'd be back to dinner . 
'' Oh ! All right . 
'' From the hall the telephone jangled sharply . 
I'll go , '' said Pete's mistress , as she turned and hurried up stairs . 
It was Bertram's voice that answered her opening Hullo . 
'' Oh , Billy , is that you , dear ? Well , you're just the one I wanted . 
I wanted to say that is , I wanted to ask you '' The speaker cleared his throat a little nervously , and began all over again . 
The fact is , Billy , I've run across a couple of old classmates on from New York , and they are very anxious I should stay down to dinner with them . 
Would you mind very much if I did ? '' A cold hand seemed to clutch Billy's heart . 
She caught her breath with a little gasp and tried to speak but she had to try twice before the words came . 
Why , no no , of course not ! '' Billy's voice was very high pitched and a little shaky , but it was surpassingly cheerful . 
You sure you won't be lonesome ? '' Bertram's voice was vaguely troubled . 
Of course not ! '' You've only to say the word , little girl , '' came Bertram's anxious tones again , and I won't stay . 
Then , before Bertram could answer , she uttered a gay Good by ! '' and hung up the receiver . 
Didn't you hear the gong ? '' Yes , I'm coming , Uncle William . 
'' Billy spoke with breezy gayety , and threw open the door but she did not meet Uncle William's eyes . 
Her head was turned away . 
Her hands were fussing with the hang of her skirt . 
Bertram's dining out , Pete tells me , '' observed William , with cheerful nonchalance , as they went down stairs together . 
Billy bit her lip and looked up sharply . 
She had been bracing herself to meet with disdainful indifference this man's pity the pity due a poor neglected wife whose husband preferred to dine with old classmates rather than with herself . 
Now she found in William's face , not pity , but a calm , even jovial , acceptance of the situation as a matter of course . 
She had known she was going to hate that pity but now , curiously enough , she was conscious only of anger that the pity was not there that she might hate it . 
She tossed her head a little . 
So even William Uncle William regarded this monstrous thing as an insignificant matter of everyday experience . 
Maybe he expected it to occur frequently every night , or so . 
Doubtless he did expect it to occur every night , or so . 
As if she were going to show now that she cared whether Bertram were there or not ! They should see . 
So with head held high and eyes asparkle , Billy marched into the dining room and took her accustomed place . 
CHAPTER VII THE BIG BAD QUARREL It was a brilliant dinner because Billy made it so . 
At first William met her sallies of wit with mild surprise but it was not long before he rose gallantly to the occasion , and gave back full measure of retort . 
Even Pete twice had to turn his back to hide a smile , and once his hand shook so that the tea he was carrying almost spilled . 
This threatened catastrophe , however , seemed to frighten him so much that his face was very grave throughout the rest of the dinner . 
Still laughing and talking gayly , Billy and Uncle William , after the meal was over , ascended to the drawing room . 
Billy , left to her own devices , glanced at her watch . 
Half past seven ! Time , almost , for Bertram to be coming . 
He had said dinner'' and , of course , after dinner was over he would be coming home to her . 
Very well she would show him that she had at least got along without him as well as he had without her . 
, and opened a book . 
Five , ten , fifteen minutes passed . 
Billy fidgeted in her chair , twisted her neck to look out into the hall and dropped her book with a bang . 
Uncle William jerked himself awake , and Spunkie opened sleepy eyes . 
Then both settled themselves for another nap . 
Billy sighed , picked up her book , and flounced back into her chair . 
But she did not read . 
Disconsolately she sat staring straight ahead until a quick step on the sidewalk outside stirred her into instant action . 
Assuming a look of absorbed interest she twitched the book open and held it before her face . 
But the step passed by the door and Billy saw then that her book was upside down . 
Five , ten , fifteen more minutes passed . 
Billy still sat , apparently reading , though she had not turned a page . 
The book now , however , was right side up . 
One by one other minutes passed till the great clock in the hall struck nine long strokes . 
Well , well , bless my soul ! '' mumbled Uncle William , resolutely forcing himself to wake up . 
What time was that ? '' Nine o'clock . 
'' Billy spoke with tragic distinctness , yet very cheerfully . 
Eh ? Only nine ? '' blinked Uncle William . 
I thought it must be ten . 
Well , anyhow , I believe I'll go up stairs . 
I seem to be unusually sleepy . 
Only nine , indeed ! '' she was thinking wrathfully . 
At the door Uncle William turned . 
You're not going to sit up , my dear , of course , '' he remarked . 
For the second time that evening a cold hand seemed to clutch Billy's heart . 
'' Oh , but I'm not sleepy at all , yet , '' Billy managed to declare brightly . 
'' Then Uncle William went up stairs . 
Billy turned to her book , which happened to be one of William's on Fake Antiques . 
'' To collect anything , these days , requires expert knowledge , and the utmost care and discrimination , '' read Billy's eyes . 
So Uncle William expected Bertram was going to spend the whole evening as well as stay to dinner ! '' ran Billy's thoughts . 
Well , who cares if it is , '' snapped Billy , springing to her feet and tossing the volume aside . 
Spunkie , come here ! You've simply got to play with me . 
Do you hear ? I want to be gay gay GAY ! He's gay . 
He's down there with those men , where he wants to be . 
Now , come , Spunkie hurry wake up ! He'll be here right away , I'm sure . 
'' And Billy shook a pair of worsted reins , hung with little soft balls , full in Spunkie's face . 
But Spunkie would not wake up , and Spunkie would not play . 
She bit at the reins , and sank her sharp claws into the dangling balls . 
For a fleeting instant , even , something like mischief gleamed in her big yellow eyes . 
Then the jaws relaxed , the paws turned to velvet , and Spunkie's sleek gray head settled slowly back into lazy comfort . 
Billy gazed at the cat with reproachful eyes . 
And you , too , Spunkie , '' she murmured . 
Then she got to her feet and went back to her chair . 
This time she picked up a magazine and began to turn the leaves very fast , one after another . 
Half past nine came , then ten . 
Pete appeared at the door to get Spunkie , and to see that everything was all right for the night . 
Mr. Bertram is not in yet ? '' he began doubtfully . 
Billy shook her head with a bright smile . 
I expect him every minute . 
'' Thank you , ma'am . 
'' The old man picked up the sleepy cat and went down stairs . 
A little later Billy heard his quiet steps coming back through the hall and ascending the stairs . 
She listened until from away at the top of the house she heard his door close . 
Then she drew a long breath . 
She was too angry to be reasonable . 
No longer now did she wish to be gay when her husband came . 
No longer did she even pretend to assume indifference . 
He had been unkind , cruel , thoughtless , inconsiderate of her comfort and happiness . 
Billy was walking the floor now , back and forth , back and forth . 
Half past ten came , then eleven . 
As the eleven long strokes reverberated through the silent house Billy drew in her breath and held it suspended . 
A new look came to her eyes . 
A growing terror crept into them and culminated in a frightened stare at the clock . 
Billy ran then to the great outer door and pulled it open . 
A cold wind stung her face , and caused her to shut the door quickly . 
Back and forth she began to pace the floor again but in five minutes she had run to the door once more . 
This time she wore a heavy coat of Bertram's which she caught up as she passed the hall rack . 
Out on to the broad top step Billy hurried , and peered down the street . 
As far as she could see not a person was in sight . 
Across the street in the Public Garden the wind stirred the gray tree branches and set them to casting weird shadows on the bare , frozen ground . 
A warning something behind her sent Billy scurrying into the house just in time to prevent the heavy door's closing and shutting her out , keyless , in the cold . 
Half past eleven came , and again Billy ran to the door . 
This time she put the floor mat against the casing so that the door could not close . 
Once more she peered wildly up and down the street , and across into the deserted , wind swept Garden . 
There was only terror now in Billy's face . 
The anger was all gone . 
In Billy's mind there was not a shadow of doubt something had happened to Bertram . 
Bertram was ill hurt dead ! And he was so good , so kind , so noble such a dear , dear husband ! If only she could see him once . 
If only she could ask his forgiveness for those wicked , unkind , accusing thoughts . 
If only she could tell him again that she did love him . 
If only Far down the street a step rang sharply on the frosty air . 
A masculine figure was hurrying toward the house . 
Retreating well into the shadow of the doorway , Billy watched it , her heart pounding against her side in great suffocating throbs . 
Three times during the next few minutes did the waiting little bride on the doorstep watch with palpitating yearning a shadowy form appear , approach and pass by . 
At the third heart breaking disappointment , Billy wrung her hands helplessly . 
I don't see how there can be so many utterly useless people in the world ! '' she choked . 
Then , thoroughly chilled and sick at heart , she went into the house and closed the door . 
Once again , back and forth , back and forth , Billy took up her weary vigil . 
She still wore the heavy coat . 
She had forgotten to take it off . 
Her face was pitifully white and drawn . 
One of her hands was nervously caressing the rough sleeve of the coat as it hung from her shoulder . 
One two three Billy gave a sharp cry and ran into the hall . 
Yes , it was twelve o'clock . 
And now , always , all the rest of the dreary , useless hours that that clock would tick away through an endless existence , she would have to live without Bertram . 
If only she could see him once more ! But she could not . 
He must be dead , now . 
Well , well , hullo , '' he called jovially . 
Why , Billy , what's the matter ? '' he broke off , in quite a different tone of voice . 
And then a curious thing happened . 
Is this what you call staying to dinner , Bertram Henshaw ? '' Bertram stared . 
A slow red stole to his forehead . 
It was his first experience of coming home to meet angry eyes that questioned his behavior and he did not like it . 
He had been , perhaps , a little conscience smitten when he saw how late he had stayed and he had intended to say he was sorry , of course . 
The angry retort was almost spoken when something in the piteously quivering chin and white , drawn face opposite stopped it just in time . 
Why , Billy darling ! '' he murmured instead . 
It was Billy's turn to change . 
All the anger melted away before the dismayed tenderness in those dear eyes and the grieved hurt in that dear voice . 
Well , you you I '' Billy began to cry . 
I didn't have such an awfully good time , anyhow , avowed Bertram , when speech became rational . 
I'd rather have been home with you . 
'' Nonsense ! '' blinked Billy , valiantly . 
Of course you had a good time and it was perfectly right you should have it , too ! And I I hope you'll have it again . 
'' I sha'n't , '' emphasized Bertram , promptly , not and leave you ! '' Billy regarded him with adoring eyes . 
I'll tell you we'll have 'em come here , '' she proposed gayly . 
Sure we will , '' agreed Bertram . 
Yes sure we will , '' echoed Billy , with a contented sigh . 
Then , a little breathlessly , she added Anyhow , I'll know where you are . 
I won't think you're dead ! '' You blessed little goose ! '' scolded Bertram , punctuating each word with a kiss . 
Billy drew a long sigh . 
If this is a quarrel I'm going to have them often , '' she announced placidly . 
Billy ! '' The young husband was plainly aghast . 
Well , I am because I like the making up , dimpled Billy , with a mischievous twinkle as she broke from his clasp and skipped ahead up the stairway . 
To make matters worse she chanced to run across a newspaper criticism of a new book bearing the ominous title When the Honeymoon Wanes A Talk to Young Wives . 
'' Such a title , of course , attracted her supersensitive attention at once and , with a curiously faint feeling , she picked up the paper and began to read . 
Then is when the foolish wife lets her husband see how hurt she is that he can want to be with any one but herself . 
Then is when the husband used all his life to independence , perhaps begins to chafe under these new bonds that hold him so fast . 
No man likes to be held up at the end of a threatened scene and made to give an account of himself . 
Before a woman has learned to cultivate a comfortable indifference to her husband's comings and goings , she is apt to be tyrannical and exacting . 
'' Comfortable indifference , indeed ! '' stormed Billy to herself . 
Then , when spontaneity is dead , she is the chief mourner at its funeral . 
A few couples never leave the Garden of Eden . 
They grow old hand in hand . 
They are the ones who bear and forbear who have learned to adjust themselves to the intimate relationship of living together . 
A certain amount of liberty , both of action and thought , must be allowed on each side . 
The family shut in upon itself grows so narrow that all interest in the outside world is lost . 
No two people are ever fitted to fill each other's lives entirely . 
They ought not to try to do it . 
Brushing up against other interests and other personalities is good for both husband and wife . 
Then to each other they bring the best of what they have found , and each to the other continues to be new and interesting . 
The young wife , however , is apt to be jealous of everything that turns her husband's attention for one moment away from herself . 
She is jealous of his thoughts , his words , his friends , even his business . 
'' At this point Billy dropped the paper . 
She flung it down , indeed , a bit angrily . 
There were still a few more words in the criticism , mostly the critic's own opinion of the book but Billy did not care for this . 
She had read quite enough boo much , in fact . 
'' Billy frowned , and put her finger to her lips . 
And yet , that man had said With a despairing sigh Billy picked up the paper once more and read carefully every word again . 
When she had finished she stood soberly thoughtful , her eyes out of the window . 
After all , it was nothing but the same old story . 
She did want her husband's every thought . 
She gloried in peering into every last recess of his mind if she had half a chance . 
She was jealous of his work . 
She had almost hated his painting at times . 
She had held him up with a threatened scene only the night before and demanded that he should give an account of himself . 
She had , very likely , been the clinging vine when she should have been the sturdy oak . 
He should have no further cause for complaint . 
She would be an oak . 
She would cultivate that comfortable indifference to his comings and goings . 
She would brush up against other interests and personalities so as to be new'' and interesting'' to her husband . 
She would not be tyrannical , exacting , or jealous . 
She would not threaten scenes , nor peer into recesses . 
eminently satisfactory state of mind , Billy turned from the window and fell to work on a piece of manuscript music . 
Brush up against other interests , '' she admonished herself sternly , as she reached for her pen . 
Theoretically it was beautiful but practically Billy began at once to be that oak . 
Not an hour after she had first seen the fateful notice of When the Honeymoon Wanes , '' Bertram's ring sounded at the door down stairs . 
To day , when the bell sounded , Billy sprang as usual to her feet , with a joyous There's Bertram ! '' But the next moment she fell back . 
Tut , tut , Billy Neilson Henshaw ! Learn to cultivate a comfortable indifference to your husband's comings and goings , '' she whispered fiercely . 
Then she sat down and fell to work again . 
A moment later she heard her husband's voice talking to some one Pete , she surmised . 
Here ? You say she's here ? '' Then she heard Bertram's quick step on the stairs . 
The next minute , very quietly , he came to her door . 
Ho ! '' he ejaculated gayly , as she rose to receive his kiss . 
I thought I'd find you asleep , when you didn't hear my ring . 
'' Billy reddened a little . 
Oh , no , I wasn't asleep . 
'' But you didn't hear '' Bertram stopped abruptly , an odd look in his eyes . 
Maybe you did hear it , though , '' he corrected . 
The fact that she looked so distressed did not tend to clear Bertram's face . 
Why , of course , Billy , I didn't mean to insist on your coming to meet me , '' he began a little stiffly but Billy interrupted him . 
Why , Bertram , I just love to go to meet you , '' she maintained indignantly . 
A puzzled frown showed on Bertram's face . 
You did love to meet me until '' he repeated after her then his face changed . 
Billy , you aren't you can't be laying up last night against me ! '' he reproached her a little irritably . 
Already she thought she detected in Bertram's voice signs that he was beginning to chafe against those bonds . 
Bertram stared then he frowned , turned on his heel and left the room . 
Bertram , who knew nothing of the Talk to Young Wives'' in the newspaper at Billy's feet , was surprised , puzzled , and just a bit angry . 
Billy , left alone , jabbed her pen with such force against her paper that the note she was making became an unsightly blot . 
Well , if this is what that man calls being comfortably indifferent , I'd hate to try the un comfortable kind , '' she muttered with emphasis . 
Assiduously she cultivated the prescribed indifference , '' and with at least apparent enthusiasm she sought the much to be desired outside interests . 
'' That is , she did all this when she thought of it when something reminded her of the sword of destruction hanging over her happiness . 
At other times , when she was just being happy without question , she was her old self impulsive , affectionate , and altogether adorable . 
Naturally , under these circumstances , her conduct was somewhat erratic . 
For three days , perhaps , she would fly to the door at her husband's ring , and hang upon his every movement . 
That all this was puzzling and disquieting to Bertram , Billy not once suspected . 
Billy , so far as she was concerned , was but cultivating a comfortable indifference , brushing up against outside interests , and being an oak . 
December passed , and January came , bringing Miss Marguerite Winthrop to her Boston home . 
Bertram's arm was as good as ever'' now , according to its owner and the sittings for the new portrait began at once . 
It was on such a day , toward the middle of the month , that Billy was called to the telephone at half past twelve o'clock to speak to her husband . 
Billy , dear , '' began Bertram at once , if you don't mind I'm staying to luncheon at Miss Winthrop's kind request . 
We've changed the pose neither of us was satisfied , you know but we haven't quite settled on the new one . 
Miss Winthrop has two whole hours this afternoon that she can give me if I'll stay and , of course , under the circumstances , I want to do it . 
'' Of course , '' echoed Billy . 
Billy's voice was indomitably cheerful . 
I knew you'd understand , '' sighed Bertram , contentedly . 
You see , really , two whole hours , so it's a chance I can't afford to lose . 
'' Of course you can't , '' echoed Billy , again . 
Good by till to night , '' called the man . 
Good by , '' answered Billy , still cheerfully . 
As she turned away , however , she tossed her head . 
A new pose , indeed ! '' she muttered , with some asperity . 
Do you mind ? It's '' Mind ? Of course not ! I'm glad you did , '' plunged in Billy , with feverish eagerness . 
I want you to always bring them home , Bertram . 
'' All right , dear . 
We'll be there at six o'clock then . 
It's it's Calderwell , this time . 
You remember Calderwell , of course . 
'' Not Hugh Calderwell ? '' Billy's question was a little faint . 
Sure ! '' Bertram laughed oddly , and lowered his voice . 
I suspect once I wouldn't have brought him home to you . 
But now well , now maybe I want him to see what he's lost . 
Very well , he should see ! He should see that Bertram did love her her not the tilt of her chin nor the turn of her head . 
He should see how happy they were , what a good wife she made , and how devoted and satisfied Bertram was in his home . 
He should see ! And forthwith Billy picked up her skirts and tripped up stairs to select her very prettiest house gown to do honor to the occasion . 
Eliza and Pete had not yet returned so , as before , Billy answered it . 
This time Eliza's shaking voice came to her . 
Is that you , ma'am ? '' Why , yes , Eliza ? '' Yes'm , it's me , ma'am . 
He's give us a turn that's 'most scared us out of our wits . 
'' Pete ! You mean he's sick ? '' Yes , ma'am , he was . 
That is , he is , too only he's better , now , thank goodness , '' panted Eliza . 
But he ain't hisself yet . 
Don't come a minute before he's able , Eliza . 
Don't come until to morrow . 
'' Eliza gave a trembling little laugh . 
Thank you , ma'am but there wouldn't be no keepin' of Uncle Pete here till then . 
If he could take five steps alone he'd start now . 
He says he'll be all right pretty quick , though . 
He's had 'em before these spells but never quite so bad as this , I guess an' he's worryin' somethin' turrible 'cause he can't start for home right away . 
'' Nonsense ! '' cut in Mrs. Bertram Henshaw . 
I knew you'd feel that way , '' stammered Eliza , gratefully . 
And she ain't very well , too . 
So if if you could get along '' Of course we can ! And tell Pete not to worry one bit . 
I'm so sorry he's sick ! '' Thank you , ma'am . 
Then we'll be there some time this evenin' , '' sighed Eliza . 
From the telephone Billy turned away with a troubled face . 
Pete is ill , '' she was saying to herself . 
I don't like the looks of it and he's so faithful he'd come if '' With a little cry Billy stopped short . 
Then , tremblingly , she sank into the nearest chair . 
Calderwell and he's coming to dinner ! '' she moaned . 
For two benumbed minutes Billy sat staring at nothing . 
Then she ran to the telephone and called the Annex . 
'' O dear , of course it is ! I might have known , if I'd thought but Pete and Eliza have spoiled me . 
They never take days out at meal time both together , I mean until to night . 
'' But , my dear child , what will you do ? '' I don't know . 
I must do something ! '' Of course you must ! I'd come over myself if it wasn't for my cold . 
'' As if I'd let you ! '' There isn't anybody here , only Tommy . 
But I am a wife , and I'm not an efficient housekeeper and Hugh Calderwell won't wait for me to learn . 
To night ! And I've got to do something . 
I'll fix it some way . 
Good by ! '' But , Billy , Billy ! Oh , my grief and conscience , '' fluttered Aunt Hannah's voice across the wires as Billy snapped the receiver into place . 
For the second time that day Billy backed palpitatingly against the wall . 
Her eyes sought the clock fearfully . 
She had an hour and three quarters . 
She could , of course , telephone Bertram to dine Calderwell at a club or some hotel . 
Doubtless he had left the Winthrops' by this time . 
But Marie could not very well come just now , she knew and then , too , there was Cyril to be taken into consideration . 
So , there ! With a jerk Mrs. Bertram Henshaw pulled herself away from the wall and stood erect . 
Her eyes snapped , and the very poise of her chin spelled determination . 
Very well , she would show them . 
An oak would hold up its head and say I can ! '' An oak would go ahead and get that dinner . 
She would be an oak . 
She would get that dinner . 
On the way to the kitchen , Billy planned her dinner . 
As was natural , perhaps , she chose the things she herself would like to eat . 
I won't attempt anything very elaborate , '' she said to herself . 
It would be wiser to have something simple , like chicken pie , perhaps . 
I love chicken pie ! And I'll have oyster stew first that is , after the grapefruit . 
Just oysters boiled in milk must be easier than soup to make . 
I'll begin with grapefruit with a cherry in it , like Pete fixes it . 
Those don't have to be cooked , anyhow . 
I'll have fish Bertram loves the fish course . 
Let me see , halibut , I guess , with egg sauce . 
I won't have any roast nothing but the chicken pie . 
And I'll have squash and onions . 
I can have a salad , easy just lettuce and stuff . 
That doesn't have to be cooked . 
Oh , and the peach fritters , if I get time to make them . 
For dessert well , maybe I can find a new pie or pudding in the cookbook . 
I want to use that cookbook for something , after hunting all this time for it ! '' In the kitchen Billy found exquisite neatness , and silence . 
The first brought an approving light to her eyes but the second , for some unapparent reason , filled her heart with vague misgiving . 
This feeling , however , Billy resolutely cast from her as she crossed the room , dropped her book on to the table , and turned toward the shining black stove . 
There was an excellent fire . 
Glowing points of light showed that only a good draft was needed to make the whole mass of coal red hot . 
Billy , however , did not know this . 
Her experience of fires was confined to burning wood in open grates and wood in open grates had to be poked to make it red and glowing . 
With confident alacrity now , therefore , Billy caught up the poker , thrust it into the mass of coals and gave them a fine stirring up . 
Then she set back the lid of the stove and went to hunt up the ingredients for her dinner . 
As to ordering them now Billy glanced at the clock and shook her head . 
It's almost five , already , and they'd never get here in time , '' she sighed regretfully . 
I'll have to have something else . 
'' Billy looked now , not for what she wanted , but for what she could find . 
Thus laden she went back to the kitchen . 
Spread upon the table they made a brave show . 
Oh , well , I'll have quite a dinner , after all , '' she triumphed , cocking her head happily . 
And now for the dessert , '' she finished , pouncing on the cookbook . 
It was while she was turning the leaves to find the pies and puddings that she ran across the vegetables and found the word beets'' staring her in the face . 
Mechanically she read the line below . 
Winter beets will require three hours to cook . 
'' Billy's startled eyes sought the clock . 
Three hours and it was five , now ! Frenziedly , then , she ran her finger down the page . 
Onions , one and one half hours . 
Turnips require a long time , but if cut thin they will cook in an hour and a quarter . 
'' An hour and a quarter , indeed ! '' she moaned . 
Isn't there anything anywhere that doesn't take forever to cook ? '' Early peas . 
'' mumbled Billy's dry lips . 
If it took new potatoes thirty minutes to cook , how long did it take old ones ? In vain she searched for the answer . 
There were plenty of potatoes . 
They were mashed , whipped , scalloped , creamed , fried , and broiled they were made into puffs , croquettes , potato border , and potato snow . 
For many of these they were boiled first until tender , '' one rule said . 
But that doesn't tell me how long it takes to get 'em tender , '' fumed Billy , despairingly . 
I suppose they think anybody ought to know that but I don't ! '' Suddenly her eyes fell once more on the instructions for boiling turnips , and her face cleared . 
If it helps to cut turnips thin , why not potatoes ? '' she cried . 
A few minutes later , the potatoes , peeled , and cut almost to wafer thinness , were dumped into a basin of cold water . 
There ! now I guess you'll cook , '' nodded Billy to the dish in her hand as she hurried to the stove . 
Chilled by an ominous unresponsiveness , Billy lifted the stove lid and peered inside . 
Only a mass of black and graying coals greeted her . 
To think that even you had to go back on me like this ! '' upbraided Billy , eyeing the dismal mass with reproachful gaze . 
This disaster , however , as Billy knew , was not so great as it seemed , for there was still the gas stove . 
In the old days , under Dong Ling's rule , there had been no gas stove . 
Dong Ling disapproved of devil stoves'' that had no coalee , no woodee , but burned like hellee . 
'' Eliza , however , did approve of them and not long after her arrival , a fine one had been put in for her use . 
So now Billy soon had her potatoes with a brisk blaze under them . 
In frantic earnest , then , Billy went to work . 
Brushing the discarded onions , turnip , and beets into a pail under the table , she was still confronted with the beefsteak , lettuce , and grapefruit . 
All but the beefsteak she pushed to one side with gentle pats . 
You're all right , '' she nodded to them . 
No , you don't not for me ! '' she muttered , after a minute , shaking her finger at the tenderloin on the table . 
No , sir ! It's back to the refrigerator for you , and a nice cold sensible roast leg of lamb for me , that doesn't have to be cooked . 
Understand ? Cooked , '' she finished , as she carried the beefsteak away and took possession of the hitherto despised cold lamb . 
Once more Billy made a mad search through cupboards and shelves . 
This time she bore back in triumph a can of corn , another of tomatoes , and a glass jar of preserved peaches . 
In the kitchen a cheery bubbling from the potatoes on the stove greeted her . 
Billy's spirits rose with the steam . 
There , Spunkie , '' she said gayly to the cat , who had just uncurled from a nap behind the stove . 
Tell me I can't get up a dinner ! And maybe we'll have the peach fritters , too , she chirped . 
I've got the peach part , anyway . 
'' But Billy did not have the peach fritters , after all . 
CHAPTER X THE DINNER BILLY GOT At five minutes of six Bertram and Calderwell came . 
Bertram gave his peculiar ring and let himself in with his latchkey but Billy did not meet him in the hall , nor in the drawing room . 
Excusing himself , Bertram hurried up stairs . 
Billy was not in her room , nor anywhere on that floor . 
She was not in William's room . 
Coming down stairs to the hall again , Bertram confronted William , who had just come in . 
Where's Billy ? '' demanded the young husband , with just a touch of irritation , as if he suspected William of having Billy in his pocket . 
Why , I don't know . 
Isn't she here ? '' I'll ask Pete , '' frowned Bertram . 
In the dining room Bertram found no one , though the table was prettily set , and showed half a grapefruit at each place . 
Why , Billy ! '' he gasped . 
Billy , who was struggling with something at the sink , turned sharply . 
Bertram Henshaw , '' she panted , I used to think you were wonderful because you could paint a picture . 
I even used to think I was a little wonderful because I could write a song . 
Well , I don't any more ! But I'll tell you who is wonderful . 
What in the world does this mean ? '' Mean ? It means I'm getting dinner , '' choked Billy . 
Can't you see ? '' But Pete ! Eliza ! '' They're sick I mean he's sick and I said I'd do it . 
Bertram Henshaw , '' she flamed angrily , if you don't go up stairs and tend to that man up there , I shall scream . 
Now go ! I'll be up when I can . 
It was not so very long , after all , before Billy came in to greet her guest . 
She was not stately and imposing in royally sumptuous blue velvet and ermine nor yet was she cozy and homy in bronze gold cr e pe de Chine and swan's down . 
She was just herself in a pretty little morning house gown of blue gingham . 
She was minus the dust cap and the ruffled apron , but she had a dab of flour on the left cheek , and a smutch of crock on her forehead . 
She had , too , a cut finger on her right hand , and a burned thumb on her left . 
But she was Billy and being Billy , she advanced with a bright smile and held out a cordial hand not even wincing when the cut finger came under Calderwell's hearty clasp . 
I'm glad to see you , '' she welcomed him . 
You'll excuse my not appearing sooner , I'm sure , for didn't Bertram tell you ? I'm playing Bridget to night . 
But dinner is ready now , and we'll go down , please , '' she smiled , as she laid a light hand on her guest's arm . 
Behind her , Bertram , remembering the scene in the kitchen , stared in sheer amazement . 
Bertram , it might be mentioned again , had been married six months , not six years . 
The cold lamb too , met with a hearty reception , especially after the potatoes , corn , and tomatoes were served and tasted . 
Outwardly , through it all , Billy was gayety itself . 
Inwardly she was burning up with anger and mortification . 
William , picking at his dinner as only a hungry man can pick at a dinner that is uneatable watched Billy with a puzzled , uneasy frown . 
Bertram , choking over the few mouthfuls he ate , marked his wife's animated face and Calderwell's absorbed attention , and settled into gloomy silence . 
But it could not continue forever . 
The preserved peaches were eaten at last , and the stale cake left . 
Then the four trailed up stairs to the drawing room . 
At nine o'clock an anxious Eliza and a remorseful , apologetic Pete came home and descended to the horror the once orderly kitchen and dining room had become . 
At ten , Calderwell , with very evident reluctance , tore himself away from Billy's gay badinage , and said good night . 
At two minutes past ten , an exhausted , nerve racked Billy was trying to cry on the shoulders of both Uncle William and Bertram at once . 
There , there , child , don't ! It went off all right , '' patted Uncle William . 
As if I'd ever let you keep me from it , Bertram Henshaw , after this ! '' she contested . 
One of his first acts , when he did come , was to look up Mr. M. J. Arkwright at the address which Billy had given him . 
Calderwell had not seen Arkwright since they parted in Paris some two years before , after a six months tramp through Europe together . 
Calderwell liked Arkwright then , greatly , and he lost no time now in renewing the acquaintance . 
Arkwright greeted him most cordially . 
Sha'n't do it , '' retorted Arkwright , with a smile . 
I never gamble on palpable uncertainties , except for a chance throw or two , as I gave a minute ago . 
Your movements are altogether too erratic , and too far reaching , for ordinary mortals to keep track of . 
'' Well , maybe you're right , '' grinned Calderwell , appreciatively . 
Anyhow , you would have lost this time , sure thing , for I've been working . 
'' Seen the doctor yet ? '' queried Arkwright , coolly , pushing the cigars across the table . 
Thanks for both , '' sniffed Calderwell , with a reproachful glance , helping himself . 
Your good judgment in some matters is still unimpaired , I see , '' he observed , tapping the little gilded band which had told him the cigar was an old favorite . 
As to other matters , however , you're wrong again , my friend , in your surmise . 
I am not sick , and I have been working . 
'' So ? Well , I'm told they have very good specialists here . 
Some one of them ought to hit your case . 
Still how long has it been running ? '' Arkwright's face showed only grave concern . 
Oh , come , let up , Arkwright , '' snapped Calderwell , striking his match alight with a vigorous jerk . 
I'll admit I haven't ever given any special indication of an absorbing passion for work . 
But what can you expect of a fellow born with a whole dozen silver spoons in his mouth ? And that's what I was , according to Bertram Henshaw . 
According to him again , it's a wonder I ever tried to feed myself and perhaps he's right with my mouth already so full . 
'' I should say so , '' laughed Arkwright . 
Well , be that as it may . 
I'm going to feed myself , and I'm going to earn my feed , too . 
I haven't climbed a mountain or paddled a canoe , for a year . 
I've been in Chicago cultivating the acquaintance of John Doe and Richard Roe . 
'' You mean law ? '' Sure . 
I studied it here for a while , before that bout of ours a couple of years ago . 
Billy drove me away , then . 
'' Billy ! er Mrs. Henshaw ? '' Yes . 
I thought I told you . 
She turned down my tenth dozen proposal so emphatically that I lost all interest in Boston and took to the tall timber again . 
A friend of my father's wrote me to come on and consider a good opening there was in his law office . 
I came on a month ago , and considered . 
Then I went back to pack up . 
Now I've come for good , and here I am . 
You have my history to date . 
Now tell me of yourself . 
You're looking as fit as a penny from the mint , even though you have discarded that lovely' brown beard . 
Was that a concession to er Mary Jane ? '' Arkwright lifted a quick hand of protest . 
There is no Mary Jane , now , '' he said a bit stiffly . 
The other stared a little . 
Then he gave a low chuckle . 
Michael Jeremiah , '' he repeated musingly , eyeing the glowing tip of his cigar . 
'' Oh ! '' Calderwell noted the smouldering fire in the other's eyes a little curiously . 
I'll take the hint Michael Jeremiah . 
'' Arkwright relaxed a little . 
To tell the truth , I've had quite enough now of Mary Jane . 
So be it , '' nodded the other , still regarding his friend thoughtfully . 
But tell me what of yourself ? '' Arkwright shrugged his shoulders . 
'' Humph ! Very pretty , '' scoffed Calderwell . 
Then if you won't tell , I will . 
I saw Billy a month ago , you see . 
But Billy says you've made two or three appearances already on the sacred boards themselves one of them a subscription performance and that you created no end of a sensation . 
'' Nonsense ! I'm merely a student at the Opera School here , '' scowled Arkwright . 
Oh , yes , Billy said you were that , but she also said you wouldn't be , long . 
That you'd already had one good offer I'm not speaking of marriage and that you were going abroad next summer , and that they were all insufferably proud of you . 
'' Nonsense ! '' scowled Arkwright , again , coloring like a girl . 
That is only some of of Mrs. Henshaw's kind flattery . 
'' Calderwell jerked the cigar from between his lips , and sat suddenly forward in his chair . 
Arkwright , tell me about them . 
How are they making it go ? '' Arkwright frowned . 
Who ? Make what go ? '' he asked . 
Is she happy ? Is he on the square ? '' Arkwright's face darkened . 
Well , really , '' he began but Calderwell interrupted . 
Oh , come don't be squeamish . 
You think I'm butting into what doesn't concern me but I'm not . 
What concerns Billy does concern me . 
And if he doesn't make her happy , I'll I'll kill him . 
'' In spite of himself Arkwright laughed . 
Calderwell laughed this time , though without much mirth . 
Oh , I'm not in love with Billy , now , '' he explained . 
Please don't think I am . 
I shouldn't see her if I was , of course . 
'' Arkwright changed his position suddenly , bringing his face into the shadow . 
Calderwell talked on without pausing . 
No , I'm not in love with Billy . 
'' The words were low , but steadily spoken . 
Of course you do ! We all do . 
And we want her happy . 
But as for her marrying Bertram you could have bowled me over with a soap bubble when I heard she'd done it . 
Now understand Bertram is a good fellow , and I like him . 
I've known him all his life , and he's all right . 
Oh , six or eight years ago , to be sure , he got in with a set of fellows Bob Seaver and his clique that were no good . 
Went in for Bohemianism , and all that rot . 
It wasn't good for Bertram . 
Humph ! Well , that's what I think . 
But , about this marriage business . 
Bertram admires a pretty face wherever he sees it to paint , and always has . 
I I've seen them in their home together many times . 
I think they are very happy . 
'' Arkwright spoke with decision , though still a little diffidently . 
He had picked up the little gilt band he had torn from his cigar and was fingering it musingly . 
Yes I've seen them once , '' he said , after a minute . 
I took dinner with them when I was on , a month ago . 
'' I heard you did . 
'' At something in Arkwright's voice , Calderwell turned quickly . 
What do you mean ? Why do you say it like that ? '' Arkwright laughed . 
The constraint fled from his manner . 
Well , I may as well tell you . 
Mrs. Henshaw herself tells of it everywhere . 
It was her friend , Alice Greggory , who told me of it first , however . 
It seems the cook was gone , and the mistress had to get the dinner herself . 
'' Yes , I know that . 
'' But you should hear Mrs. Henshaw tell the story now , or Bertram . 
Didn't you er notice anything ? '' Notice anything ! '' exploded Calderwell . 
I noticed that Billy was so brilliant she fairly radiated sparks and I noticed that Bertram was so glum he he almost radiated thunderclaps . 
Then I saw that Billy's high spirits were all assumed to cover a threatened burst of tears , and I laid it all to him . 
I thought he'd said something to hurt her and I could have punched him . 
Great Scott ! Was that what ailed them ? '' I reckon it was . 
Alice says that since then Mrs. Henshaw has fairly haunted the kitchen , begging Eliza to teach her everything , every single thing she knows ! '' Calderwell chuckled . 
If that isn't just like Billy ! She never does anything by halves . 
By George , but she was game over that dinner ! I can see it all now . 
'' Alice says she's really learning to cook , in spite of old Pete's horror , and Eliza's pleadings not to spoil her pretty hands . 
'' Then Pete is back all right ? What a faithful old soul he is ! '' Arkwright frowned slightly . 
Yes , he's faithful , but he isn't all right , by any means . 
I think he's a sick man , myself . 
'' What makes Billy let him work , then ? '' Let him ! '' sniffed Arkwright . 
I'd like to see you try to stop him ! Mrs. Henshaw begs and pleads with him to stop , but he scouts the idea . 
'' Poor Billy ! '' chuckled Calderwell . 
I'd have gone down into the kitchen myself if I'd suspected what was going on . 
'' Arkwright raised his eyebrows . 
Perhaps it's well you didn't if Bertram's picture of what he found there when he went down is a true one . 
Mrs. Henshaw acknowledges that even the cat sought refuge under the stove . 
'' As if the veriest worm that crawls ever needed to seek refuge from Billy ! '' scoffed Calderwell . 
By the way , what's this Annex I hear of ? Bertram mentioned it , but I couldn't get either of them to tell what it was . 
Billy wouldn't , and Bertram said he couldn't not with Billy shaking her head at him like that . 
So I had my suspicions . 
One of Billy's pet charities ? '' She doesn't call it that . 
'' Arkwright's face and voice softened . 
She still keeps it open . 
She calls it the Annex to her home . 
She's filled it with a crippled woman , a poor little music teacher , a lame boy , and Aunt Hannah . 
'' But how extraordinary ! '' She doesn't think so . 
She says it's just an overflow house for the extra happiness she can't use . 
'' There was a moment's silence . 
Calderwell laid down his cigar , pulled out his handkerchief , and blew his nose furiously . 
Then he got to his feet and walked to the fireplace . 
After a minute he turned . 
Well , if she isn't the beat 'em ! '' he spluttered . 
Even as it is , they all pay a little something toward the running expenses of the house . 
They insisted on that , and Mrs. Henshaw had to let them . 
Her husband says he expects to hear any day of an Annexette to the Annex . 
'' Humph ! '' grunted Calderwell , as he turned and began to walk up and down the room . 
Bertram is still painting , I suppose . 
'' What's he doing now ? '' Several things . 
He's up to his eyes in work . 
As you probably have heard , he met with a severe accident last summer , and lost the use of his right arm for many months . 
I believe they thought at one time he had lost it forever . 
But it's all right now , and he has several commissions for portraits . 
Alice says he's doing ideal heads again , too . 
'' Same old Face of a Girl' ? '' I suppose so , though Alice didn't say . 
Of course his special work just now is painting the portrait of Miss Marguerite Winthrop . 
You may have heard that he tried it last year and and didn't make quite a success of it . 
My sister Belle told me . 
She hears from Billy once in a while . 
Will it be a go , this time ? '' We'll hope so for everybody's sake . 
I imagine no one has seen it yet it's not finished but Alice says '' Calderwell turned abruptly , a quizzical smile on his face . 
Why , I told you . 
She is Miss Alice Greggory , Mrs. Henshaw's friend and mine . 
I have known her for years . 
'' Hm m what is she like ? '' Like ? Why , she's like like herself , of course . 
You'll have to know Alice . 
She's the salt of the earth Alice is , '' smiled Arkwright , rising to his feet with a remonstrative gesture , as he saw Calderwell pick up his coat . 
What's your hurry ? '' Hm m , '' commented Calderwell again , ignoring the question . 
And when , may I ask , do you intend to appropriate this er salt to er ah season your own life with , as I might say eh ? '' Arkwright laughed . 
There was not the slightest trace of embarrassment in his face . 
You're on the wrong track , this time . 
Alice and I are good friends always have been , and always will be , I hope . 
'' Nothing more ? '' Nothing more . 
She is musical , and the Henshaws are good enough to ask us there often together . 
You will meet her , doubtless , now , yourself . 
She is frequently at the Henshaw home . 
'' Calderwell still eyed his host shrewdly . 
Then you'll give me a clear field , eh ? '' Certainly . 
'' Arkwright's eyes met his friend's gaze without swerving . 
However , I suppose you'll tell me , as I did you , once , that a right of way in such a case doesn't mean a thoroughfare for the party interested . 
If my memory serves me , I gave you right of way in Paris to win the affections of a certain elusive Miss Billy here in Boston , if you could . 
But I see you didn't seem to improve your opportunities , '' he finished teasingly . 
Arkwright stooped , of a sudden , to pick up a bit of paper from the floor . 
No , '' he said quietly . 
I didn't seem to improve my opportunities . 
'' This time he did not meet Calderwell's eyes . 
The good byes had been said when Calderwell turned abruptly at the door . 
Oh , I say , I suppose you're going to that devil's carnival at Jordan Hall to morrow night . 
'' Devil's carnival ! You don't mean Cyril Henshaw's piano recital ! '' Sure I do , '' grinned Calderwell , unabashed . 
And I'll warrant it'll be a devil's carnival , too . 
Isn't Mr. Cyril Henshaw going to play his own music ? Oh , I know I'm hopeless , from your standpoint , but I can't help it . 
I like mine with some go in it , and a tune that you can find without hunting for it . 
And I don't like lost spirits gone mad that wail and shriek through ten perfectly good minutes , and then die with a gasping moan whose home is the tombs . 
However , you're going , I take it . 
'' Of course I am , '' laughed the other . 
You couldn't hire Alice to miss one shriek of those spirits . 
Besides , I rather like them myself , you know . 
'' Yes , I suppose you do . 
You're brought up on it in your business . 
But me for the Merry Widow' and even the hoary Jingle Bells' every time ! However , I'm going to be there out of respect to the poor fellow's family . 
And , by the way , that's another thing that bowled me over Cyril's marriage . 
Why , Cyril hates women ! '' Not all women we'll hope , '' smiled Arkwright . 
Do you know his wife ? '' Not much . 
I used to see her a little at Billy's . 
Music teacher , wasn't she ? Then she's the same sort , I suppose . 
'' But she isn't , '' laughed Arkwright . 
Oh , she taught music , but that was only because of necessity , I take it . 
She's domestic through and through , with an overwhelming passion for making puddings and darning socks , I hear . 
Alice says she believes Mrs. Cyril knows every dish and spoon by its Christian name , and that there's never so much as a spool of thread out of order in the house . 
Gorry ! it was Hugh that went marching home that night . 
'' Oh , well , from reports I reckon Mrs. Cyril doesn't play either a banjo or a guitar , '' smiled Arkwright . 
Alice says she wears rubber heels on her shoes , and has put hushers on all the chair legs , and felt mats between all the plates and saucers . 
Anyhow , Cyril is building a new house , and he looks as if he were in a pretty healthy condition , as you'll see to morrow night . 
'' Humph ! I wish he'd make his music healthy , then , '' grumbled Calderwell , as he opened the door . 
CHAPTER XII FOR BILLY SOME ADVICE February brought busy days . 
He also , if possible , wished to enter two or three other canvases , upon which he was spending all the time he could get . 
Bertram felt that he was doing very good work now . 
The portrait of Marguerite Winthrop was coming on finely . 
The elusive something'' in her face , which had previously been so baffling , was now already caught and held bewitchingly on his canvas . 
He was confident that the portrait would be a success . 
He was also much interested in another piece of work which he intended to show called The Rose . 
'' The model for this was a beautiful young girl he had found selling flowers with her father in a street booth at the North End . 
On the whole , Bertram was very happy these days . 
He knew that she tried to show him that she understood it . 
At the same time , he could not help thinking , occasionally , that Billy did sometimes mind his necessary absorption in his painting . 
To himself Bertram owned that Billy was , in some ways , a puzzle to him . 
Her conduct was still erratic at times . 
And that was another thing . 
Bertram was ashamed to hint even to himself that he was jealous of either of those men . 
As to Billy Billy , too , was busy these days chief of her concerns being , perhaps , attention to that honeymoon of hers , to see that it did not wane . 
At least , the most of her thoughts , and many of her actions , centered about that object . 
Billy had the book , now the Talk to Young Wives . 
, keeping it well hidden , when not in use , in a remote corner of her desk . 
There was a good deal in the book that Billy did not like , and there were some statements that worried her but yet there was much that she tried earnestly to follow . 
She was still striving to be the oak , and she was still eagerly endeavoring to brush up against those necessary outside interests . 
She was so thankful , in this connection , for Alice Greggory , and for Arkwright and Hugh Calderwell . 
It was such a help that she had them ! They were not only very pleasant and entertaining outside interests , but one or another of them was almost always conveniently within reach . 
Then , too , it pleased her to think that she was furthering the pretty love story between Alice and Mr. Arkwright . 
And she was furthering it . 
She was sure of that . 
Billy was very sure , now , of Arkwright . 
She only wished she were as much so of Alice . 
Not but that Alice was kindness itself to the man , either . 
It was only a peculiar something almost like fear , or constraint , that Billy thought she saw in Alice's eyes , sometimes , when Arkwright made a particularly intimate appeal . 
There was Calderwell , too . 
He , also , worried Billy . 
She feared he was going to complicate matters still more by falling in love with Alice , himself and this , certainly , Billy did not want at all . 
After all , it was rather entertaining this playing at Cupid's assistant . 
If she could not have Bertram all the time , it was fortunate that these outside interests were so pleasurable . 
Most of the mornings Billy spent in the kitchen , despite the remonstrances of both Pete and Eliza . 
Almost every meal , now , was graced with a palatable cake , pudding , or muffin that Billy would proudly claim as her handiwork . 
Pete still served at table , and made strenuous efforts to keep up all his old duties but he was obviously growing weaker , and really serious blunders were beginning to be noticeable . 
Bertram even hinted once or twice that perhaps it would be just as well to insist on his going but to this Billy would not give her consent . 
Why , Bertram , I wouldn't do it , '' she declared hotly and you wouldn't , either . 
He's been here more than fifty years . 
It would break his heart . 
I'll buy more and more , if it's necessary . 
Bless his dear old heart ! He thinks he's really serving us and he is , too . 
'' Oh , yes , you're right , he is ! '' sighed Bertram , with meaning emphasis , as he abandoned the argument . 
Continually she was hearing such words as these Oh , well , what can you expect , Billy ? You're an old married woman , now . 
'' Never mind , you'll find he's like all the rest of the husbands . 
You just wait and see ! '' Better begin with a high hand , Billy . 
But in her heart she did not like it . 
Once or twice Billy was tempted to go to Marie with this honeymoon question but Marie was very busy these days , and very preoccupied . 
'' Billy tried valiantly these days not to mind that Bertram's work was so absorbing . 
Billy tried , also , these days , to so conduct herself that not by any chance could Calderwell suspect that sometimes she was jealous of Bertram's art . 
Hence , particularly gay and cheerful was Billy when Calderwell was near . 
Nor could it be said that Billy was really unhappy at any time . 
It was only that , on occasion , the very depth of her happiness in Bertram's love frightened her , lest it bring disaster to herself or Bertram . 
Billy still went frequently to the Annex . 
There were yet two unfilled rooms in the house . 
Then she laughed at Aunt Hannah's shocked gesture of protest . 
Oh , well , I don't expect to , '' she added . 
I haven't lived very long , but I've lived long enough to know that you can't always do what you want to . 
'' Just as if there were anything you wanted to do that you don't do , my dear , '' reproved Aunt Hannah , mildly . 
'' Billy drew in her breath with a little catch . 
I have so much that is lovely and that's why I need this house , you know , for the overflow , '' she nodded brightly . 
William says you're getting to be quite a cook . 
'' Well , maybe , '' conceded Billy , doubtfully . 
Oh , I can do some things all right but just wait till Pete and Eliza go away again , and Bertram brings home a friend to dinner . 
I think now I could have something besides potato mush and burned corn but maybe I wouldn't , when the time came . 
If only I could buy everything I needed to cook with , I'd be all right . 
But I can't , I find . 
'' Can't buy what you need ! What do you mean ? '' Billy laughed ruefully . 
Well , every other question I ask Eliza , she says Why , I don't know you have to use your judgment . 
I used to tell Marie By the way , how is Marie ? Have you seen her lately ? '' Oh , yes , I saw her yesterday , '' twinkled Billy . 
'' Aunt Hannah laughed , but she frowned , too . 
The idea ! I guess Cyril can stand proper crying and laughing , too from his own child ! '' she said then , crisply . 
Oh , but Marie is afraid he can't , '' smiled Billy . 
She says that's the only thing that worries her Cyril . 
'' Nonsense ! '' ejaculated Aunt Hannah . 
Oh , but it isn't nonsense to Marie , '' retorted Billy . 
You should see the preparations she's made and the precautions she's taken . 
She says she's going to teach it to be a quiet baby and hate noise . 
She says she thinks she can do it , too . 
'' Humph ! '' sniffed Aunt Hannah , scornfully . 
You should have seen Marie's disgust the other day , '' went on Billy , a bit mischievously . 
Her Cousin Jane sent on a rattle she'd made herself , all soft worsted , with bells inside . 
It was a dear but Marie was horror stricken . 
My baby have a rattle ? she cried . 
Well , I'm thinking Marie has still some things to learn in this world and Cyril , too , for that matter . 
'' I wouldn't wonder , '' laughed Billy , giving Aunt Hannah a good by kiss . 
Nor was the Winthrop portrait the only jewel in his crown on that occasion . 
His marvelously exquisite The Rose , '' and his smaller ideal picture , Expectation , '' came in for scarcely less commendation . 
There was no doubt now . 
The originator of the famous Face of a Girl'' had come into his own again . 
It was a brilliant gathering . 
Society , as usual , in costly evening gowns and correct swallow tails rubbed elbows with names famous in the world of Art and Letters . 
Everywhere were gay laughter and sparkling repartee . 
Even the austere faced J. G. Winthrop unbent to the extent of grim smiles in response to the laudatory comments bestowed upon the pictured image of his idol , his beautiful daughter . 
As to Bertram Bertram was pleased and happy and gratified , of course , as was natural but he was not one whit more so than was Bertram's wife . 
Billy fairly radiated happiness and proud joy . 
Sh h , Billy ! Some one will hear you , '' protested Bertram , tragically but , in spite of his horrified voice , he did not look displeased . 
For the first time Billy met Marguerite Winthrop that evening . 
At the outset there was just a bit of shyness and constraint in the young wife's manner . 
Billy could not forget her old insane jealousy of this beautiful girl with the envied name of Marguerite . 
But it was for only a moment , and soon she was her natural , charming self . 
Miss Winthrop was fascinated , and she made no pretense of hiding it . 
I have , '' he said . 
I have painted her many times . 
I have a whole studio full of Billys' at home . 
'' Oh , have you , really ? '' questioned Miss Winthrop , eagerly . 
Then I'm coming right away . 
May I ? I'm going to Washington next week , you see . 
Will you let me come to morrow at at half past three , then ? Will it be quite convenient for you , Mrs. Henshaw ? '' Quite convenient . 
I shall be glad to see you , '' smiled Billy . 
And Bertram echoed his wife's cordial permission . 
There was , after all , that evening , one fly in Billy's ointment . 
It fluttered in at the behest of an old acquaintance one of the advice women , '' as Billy termed some of her too interested friends . 
Well , they're lovely , perfectly lovely , of course , Mrs. Henshaw , '' said this lady , coming up to say good night . 
But , all the samee sic , I'm glad my husband is just a plain lawyer . 
As if I couldn't trust Bertram ! '' raged Billy passionately to herself , stealing a surreptitious glance at her ruined glove . 
Yes , do , '' Billy had urged . 
I think she's lovely , but you know her so much better than I do that I want you here . 
Besides , you needn't think I'm going to show her all those Billys of yours . 
I may be vain , but I'm not quite vain enough for that , sir ! '' Don't worry , '' her husband had laughed . 
'' As it chanced , however , something occurred an hour before half past three o'clock that drove every thought of Miss Winthrop's call from Billy's head . 
For three days , now , Pete had been at the home of his niece in South Boston . 
He had been forced , finally , to give up and go away . 
This suggestion Eliza had followed , leaving the house at one o'clock . 
Shortly after two Calderwell had dropped in to bring Bertram , as he expressed it , a bunch of bouquets he had gathered at the picture show the night before . 
He was still in the drawing room , chatting with Billy , when the telephone bell rang . 
If that's Bertram , tell him to come home he's got company , '' laughed Calderwell , as Billy passed into the hall . 
A moment later he heard Billy give a startled cry , followed by a few broken words at short intervals . 
Then , before he could surmise what had happened , she was back in the drawing room again , her eyes full of tears . 
It's Pete , '' she choked . 
Eliza says he can't live but a few minutes . 
He wants to see me once more . 
What shall I do ? John's got Peggy out with Aunt Hannah and Mrs. Greggory . 
It was so nice to day I made them go . 
But I must get there some way Pete is calling for me . 
Uncle William is going , and I told Eliza where she might reach Bertram but what shall I do ? How shall I go ? '' Calderwell was on his feet at once . 
Don't worry we'll get there . 
Poor old soul of course he wants to see you ! Get on your things . 
I'll have it here in no time , '' he finished , hurrying to the telephone . 
Oh , Hugh , I'm so glad I've got you here , '' sobbed Billy , stumbling blindly toward the stairway . 
I'll be ready in two minutes . 
Pete was still alive when Calderwell left Billy at the door of the modest little home where Eliza's mother lived . 
Yes , you're in time , ma'am , '' sobbed Eliza and , oh , I'm so glad you've come . 
He's been askin' and askin' for ye . 
'' From Eliza Billy learned then that Mr. William was there , but not Mr. Bertram . 
They had not been able to reach Mr. Bertram , or Mr. Cyril . 
Billy never forgot the look of reverent adoration that came into Pete's eyes as she entered the room where he lay . 
Miss Billy my Miss Billy ! You were so good to come , '' he whispered faintly . 
Billy choked back a sob . 
Of course I'd come , Pete , '' she said gently , taking one of the thin , worn hands into both her soft ones . 
It was more than a few minutes that Pete lived . 
Four o'clock came , and five , and he was still with them . 
Often he opened his eyes and smiled . 
Sometimes he spoke a low word to William or Billy , or to one of the weeping women at the foot of the bed . 
That the presence of his beloved master and mistress meant much to him was plain to be seen . 
I'm so sorry , '' he faltered once , about that pretty dress I spoiled , Miss Billy . 
But you know my hands '' I know , I know , '' soothed Billy but don't worry . 
It wasn't spoiled , Pete . 
'' Oh , I'm so glad , '' sighed the sick man . 
After another long interval of silence he turned to William . 
Them socks the medium thin ones you'd oughter be puttin' 'em on soon , sir , now . 
They're in the right hand corner of the bottom drawer you know . 
'' Yes , Pete I'll attend to it , '' William managed to stammer , after he had cleared his throat . 
Remember about the coffee , '' Pete said to her , the way Mr. William likes it . 
And always eggs , you know , for for '' His voice trailed into an indistinct murmur , and his eyelids drooped wearily . 
One by one the minutes passed . 
The doctor came and went there was nothing he could do . 
At half past five the thin old face became again alight with consciousness . 
There was a good by message for Bertram , and one for Cyril . 
Aunt Hannah was remembered , and even little Tommy Dunn . 
Then , gradually , a gray shadow crept over the wasted features . 
The words came more brokenly . 
The mind , plainly , was wandering , for old Pete was young again , and around him were the lads he loved , William , Cyril , and Bertram . 
And then , very quietly , soon after the clock struck six , Pete fell into the beginning of his long sleep . 
CHAPTER XIV WHEN BERTRAM CAME HOME It was a little after half past three o'clock that afternoon when Bertram Henshaw hurried up Beacon Street toward his home . 
He had been delayed , and he feared that Miss Winthrop would already have reached the house . 
Mindful of what Billy had said that morning , he knew how his wife would fret if he were not there when the guest arrived . 
The sight of what he surmised to be Miss Winthrop's limousine before his door hastened his steps still more . 
But as he reached the house , he was surprised to find Miss Winthrop herself turning away from the door . 
'' Wasn't answered ! '' Bertram reddened angrily . 
Why , what can that mean ? Where's the maid ? Where's my wife ? Mrs. Henshaw must be here ! She was expecting you . 
'' Bertram , in his annoyed amazement , spoke loudly , vehemently . 
As Bertram spoke , one of the small girls , Bessie Bailey , stepped forward and piped up a shrill reply . 
She ain't , Mr. Henshaw ! She ain't here . 
I saw her go away just a little while ago . 
You saw her go away ! What do you mean ? '' Small Bessie swelled with importance . 
Bessie was thirteen , in spite of her diminutive height . 
I mean she ain't here your wife , Mr. Henshaw . 
I guess likely she's eloped , sir . 
'' Eloped ! '' Bessie swelled still more importantly . 
Sure ! And 'twas just before you came quite a while before . 
A chorus of shrill exclamations brought Mr. Bertram Henshaw suddenly to his senses . 
By a desperate effort he hid his angry annoyance as he turned to the manifestly embarrassed young woman who was already descending the steps . 
My dear Miss Winthrop , '' he apologized contritely , I'm sure you'll forgive this seeming great rudeness on the part of my wife . 
Notwithstanding the lurid tales of our young friends here , I suspect nothing more serious has happened than that my wife has been hastily summoned to Aunt Hannah , perhaps . 
Or , of course , she may not have understood that you were coming to day at half past three though I thought she did . 
But I'm so sorry when you were so kind as to come '' Miss Winthrop interrupted with a quick gesture . 
Say no more , I beg of you , '' she entreated . 
Mrs. Henshaw is quite excusable , I'm sure . 
Throwing aside his hat and coat , he strode to the telephone . 
Oh , is that you , Aunt Hannah ? '' he called crisply , a moment later . 
Well , if Billy's there will you tell her I want to speak to her , please ? '' Billy ? '' answered Aunt Hannah's slow , gentle tones . 
Mrs. Greggory and I have just this minute come in from an automobile ride . 
We would have stayed longer , but it began to get chilly , and I forgot to take one of the shawls that I'd laid out . 
'' Yes well , if you will see , please , if Billy has been there , and when she left , '' said Bertram , with grim self control . 
I'll see , '' murmured Aunt Hannah . 
In a few moments her voice again sounded across the wires . 
Why , no , Bertram , Rosa says she hasn't been here since yesterday . 
The next ten minutes Bertram spent in going through the whole house , from garret to basement . 
Needless to say , he found nothing to enlighten him , or to soothe his temper . 
Four o'clock came , then half past , and five . 
At five Bertram began to look for Eliza , but in vain . 
At half past five he watched for William but William , too , did not come . 
Bertram was pacing the floor now , nervously . 
He was a little frightened , but more mortified and angry . 
Billy was not a girl any longer . 
She was a married woman . 
Nor were matters helped any by the fact that Bertram was hungry . 
Bertram's luncheon had been meager and unsatisfying . 
did not improve his temper . 
Where Billy was he could not imagine . 
He was not surprised , therefore , when he received no reply to his ring . 
That there was the slightest truth in Bessie Bailey's absurd elopement'' idea , Bertram did not , of course , for an instant believe . 
The only thing that rankled about that was the fact that she had suggested such a thing , and that Miss Winthrop and those silly children had heard her . 
At the thought of those dinner tables , he scowled again . 
He had no dinner table at least , he had no dinner on it ! Who the man might be Bertram thought he could easily guess . 
It was either Arkwright or Calderwell , of course and probably that tiresome Alice Greggory was mixed up in it somehow . 
He did wish Billy Six o'clock came , then half past . 
Bertram was indeed frightened now , but he was more angry , and still more hungry . 
He had , in fact , reached that state of blind unreasonableness said to be peculiar to hungry males from time immemorial . 
At ten minutes of seven a key clicked in the lock of the outer door , and William and Billy entered the hall . 
Bertram could not see their faces . 
He had not lighted the hall at all . 
There was a moment of dead silence . 
At Bertram's first words Billy and William had stopped short . 
Now William turned and began to speak , but Billy interrupted . 
She met her husband's gaze steadily . 
I will be down at once to get your dinner , '' she said quietly . 
Eliza will not come to night . 
'' Bertram started forward with a quick cry . 
Dead ! Oh , Billy ! Then you were there ! Billy ! '' But his wife did not apparently hear him . 
She passed him without turning her head , and went on up the stairs , leaving him to meet the sorrowful , accusing eyes of William . 
CHAPTER XV AFTER THE STORM The young husband's apologies were profuse and abject . 
Bertram was heartily ashamed of himself , and was man enough to acknowledge it . 
At first Billy did not speak , or even vouchsafe a glance in his direction . 
Very quietly she went about her preparations for a simple meal , paying apparently no more attention to Bertram than as if he were not there . 
It was all over then . 
Bertram had her in his arms in a twinkling , while to the floor clattered and rolled a knife and a half peeled baked potato . 
Naturally , after that , there could be no more dignified silences on the part of the injured wife . 
And thus , in one corner of the kitchen , some time later , a hungry , desperate William found them , the half peeled , cold baked potato still at their feet . 
Torn between his craving for food and his desire not to interfere with any possible peace making , William was obviously hesitating what to do , when Billy glanced up and saw him . 
With a little cry she broke away from her husband's arms . 
It was a silent meal , and little , after all , was eaten , though brave attempts at cheerfulness and naturalness were made by all three . 
Bertram , especially , talked , and tried to make sure that the shadow on Billy's face was at least not the one his own conduct had brought there . 
For you do you surely do forgive me , don't you ? '' he begged , as he followed her into the kitchen after the sorry meal was over . 
Why , yes , dear , yes , '' sighed Billy , trying to smile . 
And you'll forget ? '' There was no answer . 
Billy ! And you'll forget ? '' Bertram's voice was insistent , reproachful . 
Billy changed color and bit her lip . 
Billy ! '' cried the man , still more reproachfully . 
But , Bertram , I can't forget quite yet , '' faltered Billy . 
Oh , but you'll have to forget , '' he claimed , with cheery insistence , for you've promised to forgive me and one can't forgive without forgetting . 
So , there ! '' he finished , with a smilingly determined now everything is just as it was before'' air . 
She turned hurriedly and began to busy herself with the dishes at the sink . 
And not once , in all Bertram's apologies , had he referred to them those words he had uttered . 
He had not said he did not mean them . 
He had not said he was sorry he spoke them . 
He had ignored them and he expected that now she , too , would ignore them . 
With a half stifled cry she thrust it far back out of sight . 
I hate you , I hate you with all your old talk about brushing up against outside interests' ! '' she whispered fiercely . 
Well , I've brushed' and now see what I've got for it ! '' Later , however , after Bertram was asleep , Billy crept out of bed and got the book . 
'' With a long sigh she began to read and not until some minutes later did she close the book , turn off the light , and steal back to bed . 
During the next three days , until after the funeral at the shabby little South Boston house , Eliza spent only about half of each day at the Strata . 
This , much to her distress , left many of the household tasks for her young mistress to perform . 
Billy , however , attacked each new duty with a feverish eagerness that seemed to make the performance of it very like some glad penance done for past misdeeds . 
But , Billy , what are we going to do ? '' Bertram demanded , when he heard the news . 
We must have somebody ! '' I'm going to do it . 
'' Nonsense ! As if you could ! '' scoffed Bertram . 
Couldn't I , indeed , '' she retorted . 
My dear love , I'm not questioning your ability to do it , '' he soothed quickly . 
You know how it was with that concert yesterday afternoon which Alice Greggory wanted you to go to with her . 
'' I didn't want to go , '' choked Billy , under her breath . 
You haven't done a thing with that for days , yet only last week you told me the publishers were hurrying you for that last song to complete the group . 
'' I haven't felt like writing , '' stammered Billy , still half under her breath . 
Of course you haven't , '' triumphed Bertram . 
You've been too dead tired . 
And that's just what I say . 
Billy , you can't do it all yourself ! '' But I want to . 
I want to to tend to things , '' faltered Billy , with a half fearful glance into her husband's face . 
Billy was hearing very loudly now that accusing If you'd tend to your husband and your home a little more '' Bertram , however , was not hearing it , evidently . 
Indeed , he seemed never to have heard it much less to have spoken it . 
Tend to things , '' he laughed lightly . 
Well , you'll have enough to do to tend to the maid , I fancy . 
Anyhow , we're going to have one . 
An hour later Billy , struggling with the broom and the drawing room carpet , was called to the telephone . 
It was her husband's voice that came to her . 
Billy , for heaven's sake , take pity on me . 
If ever there was a place utterly devoid of intelligence but never mind ! I've interviewed four fat ladies , two thin ones , and one medium with a wart . 
Billy , will you come ? Maybe you can do something with them . 
I'm sure you can ! '' Why , of course I'll come , '' chirped Billy . 
Where shall I meet you ? '' Bertram gave the street and number . 
Good ! I'll be there , '' promised Billy , as she hung up the receiver . 
Quite forgetting the broom in the middle of the drawing room floor , Billy tripped up stairs to change her dress . 
On her lips was a gay little song . 
In her heart was joy . 
I rather guess now I'm tending to my husband and my home ! '' she was crowing to herself . 
Just as Billy was about to leave the house the telephone bell jangled again . 
Billy , dear , '' she called , can't you come out ? Mr. Arkwright and Mr. Calderwell are here , and they've brought some new music . 
Will you come ? '' I can't , dear . 
Every stratum was aquiver with apprehension , '' he declared and there was never any telling when the next grand upheaval would rock the whole structure to its foundations . 
'' Nor was Bertram so far from being right . 
It was , indeed , a chaos , as none knew better than did Bertram's wife . 
Nora was a blue eyed , black haired Irish girl , the sixth that the despairing Billy had interviewed on that fateful morning when Bertram had summoned her to his aid . 
During her reign the entire Strata echoed to banged doors , dropped china , and slammed furniture . 
She was low voiced , gentle eyed , and a good cook . 
Following Olga came a period of what Bertram called one night stands , '' so frequently were the dramatis person ae below stairs changed . 
Christine knew only four words of English salt , good by , no , and yes and Billy found need occasionally of using other words . 
Mary was impertinent and lazy . 
Jennie could not even boil a potato properly , much less cook a dinner . 
was willing and pleasant , but insufferably untidy . 
Bridget was neatness itself , but she had no conception of the value of time . 
Her meals were always from thirty to sixty minutes late , and half cooked at that . 
Vera sang when she wasn't whistling and as she was generally off the key , and always off the tune , her almost frantic mistress dismissed her before twenty four hours had passed . 
She was neat , capable , and obliging but it did not take her long to discover just how much and how little her mistress really knew of practical housekeeping . 
Matters and things were very different then . 
Mary Ellen became argumentative , impertinent , and domineering . 
And thus the days passed . 
The maids came and the maids went , and , to Billy , each one seemed a little worse than the one before . 
Nowhere was there comfort , rest , or peacefulness . 
The nights were a torture of apprehension , and the days an even greater torture of fulfilment . 
Noise , confusion , meals poorly cooked and worse served , dust , disorder , and uncertainty . 
And this was home , Billy told herself bitterly . 
No wonder that Bertram telephoned more and more frequently that he had met a friend , and was dining in town . 
No wonder , indeed ! And so it had come . 
Aunt Hannah and Kate and the Talk to Young Wives'' were right . 
She had not been fit to marry Bertram . 
She had not been fit to marry anybody . 
Her honeymoon was not only waning , but going into a total eclipse . 
Had not Bertram already declared that if she would tend to her husband and her home a little more Billy clenched her small hands and set her round chin squarely . 
Very well , she would show them . 
She would tend to her husband and her home . 
Billy was well aware now that housekeeping was a matter of more than muffins and date puffs . 
She could gauge , in a measure , the magnitude of the task to which she had set herself . 
But she did not falter and very systematically she set about making her plans . 
With a good stout woman to come in twice a week for the heavier work , she believed she could manage by herself very well until Eliza could come back . 
Yes , I see this lady is , '' retorted Bertram , grimly but I mean our real lady in the kitchen . 
Great Scott , Billy , how long are you going to stand this ? '' Billy tossed her head airily , though she shook in her shoes . 
Billy had been dreading this moment . 
She's gone , '' responded Billy , cheerfully , resuming her seat . 
Uncle William , sha'n't I give you some more pudding ? '' Gone , so soon ? '' groaned Bertram , as William passed his plate , with a smiling nod . 
Oh , well , '' went on Bertram , resignedly , she stayed longer than the last one . 
When is the next one coming ? '' She's already here . 
Here ? But you served the dessert , and '' At something in Billy's face , a quick suspicion came into his own . 
Billy , you don't mean that you you '' Yes , '' she nodded brightly , that's just what I mean . 
'' Nonsense ! '' exploded Bertram , wrathfully . 
Oh , come , Billy , we've been all over this before . 
You know I can't have it . 
'' Yes , you can . 
You've got to have it , '' retorted Billy , still with that disarming , airy cheerfulness . 
Besides , 'twon't be half so bad as you think . 
Wasn't that a good pudding to night ? Didn't you both come back for more ? Well , I made it . 
'' Puddings ! '' ejaculated Bertram , with an impatient gesture . 
Billy , as I've said before , it takes something besides puddings to run this house . 
'' Yes , I know it does , '' dimpled Billy , and I've got Mrs. Durgin for that part . 
She's coming twice a week , and more , if I need her . 
Why , dearie , you don't know anything about how comfortable you're going to be ! I'll leave it to Uncle William if '' But Uncle William had gone . 
Silently he had slipped from his chair and disappeared . 
Uncle William , it might be mentioned in passing , had never quite forgotten Aunt Hannah's fateful call with its dire revelations concerning a certain unwanted , superfluous , third party husband's brother . 
Remembering this , there were times when he thought absence was both safest and best . 
This was one of the times . 
But , Billy , dear , '' still argued Bertram , irritably , how can you ? You don't know how . 
'' Billy threw back her shoulders . 
An ominous light came to her eyes . 
She was no longer airily playful . 
That's exactly it , Bertram . 
I don't know how but I'm going to learn . 
I haven't had experience but I'm going to get it . 
I had one Mary Ellen . 
She was a good maid until she found out how little her mistress knew then well , you know what it was then . 
CHAPTER XVII THE EFFICIENCY STAR AND BILLY Billy was not a young woman that did things by halves . 
Certainly , as the days passed , it could not be said that Billy was not tending to her husband and her home . 
From morning till night , now , she tended to nothing else . 
She seldom touched her piano save to dust it and she never touched her half finished song manuscript , long since banished to the oblivion of the music cabinet . 
She made no calls except occasional flying visits to the Annex , or to the pretty new home where Marie and Cyril were now delightfully settled . 
The opera and the Symphony were over for the season , but even had they not been , Billy could not have attended them . 
Surely she was not doing any gallivanting'' now , she told herself sometimes , a little aggrievedly . 
There was , indeed , no time . 
From morning until night Billy was busy , flying from one task to another . 
Her ambition to have everything just right was equalled only by her dogged determination to just show them'' that she could do this thing . 
At first , of course , hampered as she was by ignorance and inexperience , each task consumed about twice as much time as was necessary . 
Study of cookbooks had led to the study of food values . 
Billy discovered suddenly that potatoes , beef , onions , oranges , and puddings were something besides vegetables , meat , fruit , and dessert . 
They possessed attributes known as proteids , fats , and carbohydrates . 
Faint memories of long forgotten school days hinted that these terms had been heard before but never , Billy was sure , had she fully realized what they meant . 
It was at this juncture that Billy ran across a book entitled Correct Eating for Efficiency . 
'' She bought it at once , and carried it home in triumph . 
It proved to be a marvelous book . 
At dinner that night Billy told Bertram and William of her discovery , and , with growing excitement , dilated on the wonderful good that it was to bring to them . 
Why , you don't know , you can't imagine what a treasure it is ! '' she exclaimed . 
It gives a complete table for the exact balancing of food . 
'' For what ? '' demanded Bertram , glancing up . 
The exact balancing of food and this book says that's the biggest problem that modern scientists have to solve . 
'' Humph ! '' shrugged Bertram . 
Well , you just balance my food to my hunger , and I'll agree not to complain . 
'' Oh , but , Bertram , it's serious , really , '' urged Billy , looking genuinely distressed . 
Why , it says that what you eat goes to make up what you are . 
It makes your vital energies . 
Your brain power and your body power come from what you eat . 
'' For heaven's sake , Billy , what have you got hold of now ? '' demanded Bertram , with just a touch of irritation . 
Well , I suppose I didn't sound very logical , '' she admitted . 
But the book you just wait . 
I'm going to get it . 
'' And with laughing eagerness she ran from the room . 
In a moment she had returned , book in hand . 
This is the real thing not my garbled inaccuracies . 
The food which we eat serves three purposes it builds the body substance , bone , muscle , etc . 
, it produces heat in the body , and it generates vital energy . 
Nitrogen in different chemical combinations contributes largely to the manufacture of body substances the fats produce heat and the starches and sugars go to make the vital energy . 
Now in selecting the diet for the day you should take care to choose those foods which give the proteins , fats , and carbohydrates in just the right proportion . 
'' Oh , Billy ! '' groaned Bertram . 
But it's so , Bertram , '' maintained Billy , anxiously . 
And it's every bit here . 
I don't have to guess at it at all . 
They even give the quantities of calories of energy required for different sized men . 
I'm going to measure you both to morrow and you must be weighed , too , '' she continued , ignoring the sniffs of remonstrance from her two listeners . 
Then I'll know just how many calories to give each of you . 
But you both are taller than five feet five inches , and I should think you weighed more than pounds so I can't tell just yet how many calories you will need . 
'' How many we will need , indeed ! '' ejaculated Bertram . 
But , my dear , you know I have to have my eggs , '' began Uncle William again , in a worried voice . 
Of course you do , dear and you shall have them , '' soothed Billy , brightly . 
It's only that I'll have to be careful and balance up the other things for the day accordingly . 
Don't you see ? Now listen . 
We'll see what eggs are . 
'' She turned the leaves rapidly . 
I never saw anything so wonderful . 
A b c d e here we are . 
Eggs , scrambled or boiled , fats and proteins , one egg , . 
If it's poached it's only but you like yours boiled , so we'll have to reckon on the . 
And you always have two , so that means calories in fats and proteins . 
And you've no idea how fast that'll count up . 
Why , just one serving of butter is of fats , and eight almonds is another , while a serving of lentils is of proteins . 
So you see how it'll go . 
'' Yes , I see , '' murmured Uncle William , casting a mournful glance about the generously laden table , much as if he were bidding farewell to a departing friend . 
But if I should want more to eat '' He stopped helplessly , and Bertram's aggrieved voice filled the pause . 
Look here , Billy , if you think I'm going to be measured for an egg and weighed for an almond , you're much mistaken because I'm not . 
Six thousand ! Mercy ! Bertram , I don't know what would happen if you ate that quantity but I'm sure you couldn't paint . 
You'd just have to saw wood and dig ditches to use up all that vital energy . 
'' Humph ! '' scoffed Bertram . 
Besides , this is for efficiency , '' went on Billy , with an earnest air . 
But he says one famous man does splendid work on only , calories , and another on even , . 
But that is just a matter of chewing . 
Why , Bertram , you have no idea what perfectly wonderful things chewing does . 
'' Yes , I've heard of that , '' grunted Bertram ten chews to a cherry , and sixty to a spoonful of soup . 
There's an old metronome up stairs that Cyril left . 
You might bring it down and set it going on the table so many ticks to a mouthful , I suppose . 
I reckon , with an incentive like that to eat , just about two calories would do me . 
Eh , William ? '' Bertram ! Now you're only making fun , '' chided Billy and when it's really serious , too . 
Now listen , '' she admonished , picking up the book again . 
If a man consumes a large amount of meat , and very few vegetables , his diet will be too rich in protein , and too lacking in carbohydrates . 
On the other hand , if he consumes great quantities of pastry , bread , butter , and tea , his meals will furnish too much energy , and not enough building material . 
There , Bertram , don't you see ? '' Oh , yes , I see , '' teased Bertram . 
William , better eat what you can to night . 
I foresee it's the last meal of just food we'll get for some time . 
Hereafter we'll have proteins , fats , and carbohydrates made into calory croquettes , and '' Bertram ! '' scolded Billy . 
But Bertram would not be silenced . 
Here , just let me take that book , '' he insisted , dragging the volume from Billy's reluctant fingers . 
Now , William , listen . 
boiled eggs , calories cocoa , calories which all comes to calories . 
Sounds like an English bill of fare with a new kind of foreign money , but 'tisn't , really , you know . 
You don't deserve anything to eat , '' she declared with dignity , as she returned to the dining room . 
No ? '' queried Bertram , his eyebrows uplifted . 
Well , as near as I can make out we aren't going to get much . 
'' But Billy did not deign to answer this . 
In spite of Bertram's tormenting gibes , Billy did , for some days , arrange her meals in accordance with the wonderful table of food given in Correct Eating for Efficiency . 
'' Billy alternately laughed and scolded , to the unvarying good nature of her husband . 
Her talk these days was of formaldehyde , benzoate of soda , and salicylic acid . 
Very soon , too , Billy discovered an exclusive Back Bay school for instruction in household economics and domestic hygiene . 
Billy investigated it at once , and was immediately aflame with enthusiasm . 
This school attendance , to her consternation , Billy discovered took added time but in some way she contrived to find it to take . 
And so the days passed . 
Eliza's mother , though better , was still too ill for her daughter to leave her . 
Billy , as the warm weather approached , began to look pale and thin . 
Billy , to tell the truth , was working altogether too hard but she would not admit it , even to herself . 
At first the novelty of the work , and her determination to conquer at all costs , had given a fictitious strength to her endurance . 
By June fifteenth the picture was finished . 
Bertram awoke then to his surroundings . 
He found summer was upon him with no plans made for its enjoyment . 
He found William had started West for a two weeks' business trip . 
But what he did not find one day at least at first was his wife , when he came home unexpectedly at four o'clock . 
And Bertram especially wanted to find his wife that day , for he had met three people whose words had disquieted him not a little . 
She had said Bertram , where is Billy ? She hasn't been out to the Annex for a week and the last time she was there she looked sick . 
I was real worried about her . 
'' Cyril had been next . 
Where's Billy ? '' he had asked abruptly . 
Marie says she hasn't seen her for two weeks . 
She says Billy didn't look well a bit , when she did see her . 
'' Calderwell had capped the climax . 
She hasn't sung with us , nor played for us , nor let us take her anywhere for a month of Sundays . 
Even Miss Greggory says she hasn't seen much of her , and that Billy always says she's too busy to go anywhere . 
But Miss Greggory says she looks pale and thin , and that she thinks she's worrying too much over running the house . 
I hope she isn't sick ! '' Why , no , Billy isn't sick . 
Billy's all right , '' Bertram had answered . 
He had spoken lightly , nonchalantly , with an elaborate air of carelessness but after he had left Calderwell , he had turned his steps abruptly and a little hastily toward home . 
And he had not found Billy at least , not at once . 
He had gone first down into the kitchen and dining room . 
He remembered then , uneasily , that he had always looked for Billy in the kitchen and dining room , of late . 
To day , however , she was not there . 
On the kitchen table Bertram did see a book wide open , and , mechanically , he picked it up . 
It was a much thumbed cookbook , and it was open where two once blank pages bore his wife's handwriting . 
That beets boil dry if you look out the window . 
That biscuits which look as if they'd been mixed up with a rusty stove poker haven't really been so , but have only got too much undissolved soda in them . 
'' Bertram dropped the book then with a spasmodic clearing of his throat , and hurriedly resumed his search . 
When he did find his wife , at last , he gave a cry of dismay she was on her own bed , huddled in a little heap , and shaking with sobs . 
Billy ! Why , Billy ! '' he gasped , striding to the bedside . 
Billy sat up at once , and hastily wiped her eyes . 
Oh , is it you , B Bertram ? I didn't hear you come in . 
You you s said you weren't coming till six o'clock ! '' she choked . 
Billy , what is the meaning of this ? '' N nothing . 
I I guess I'm just tired . 
'' What have you been doing ? '' Bertram spoke sternly , almost sharply . 
He was wondering why he had not noticed before the little hollows in his wife's cheeks . 
Billy , what have you been doing ? '' Why , n nothing extra , only some sweeping , and cleaning out the refrigerator . 
'' Sweeping ! Cleaning ! You ! I thought Mrs. Durgin did that . 
She broke her leg fell off the stepladder where she was three days ago . 
So I had to do it . 
And to day , someway , everything went wrong . 
With gentle yet uncompromising determination , Bertram gathered his wife into his arms and carried her to the big chair . 
There , for a few minutes , he soothed and petted her as if she were a tired child which , indeed , she was . 
Billy , this thing has got to stop , '' he said then . 
There was a very inexorable ring of decision in his voice . 
What thing ? '' This housework business . 
'' Billy sat up with a jerk . 
But , Bertram , it isn't fair . 
You can't you mustn't just because of to day ! I can do it . 
I've done it days and days , and it's gone beautifully even if they did say I couldn't ! '' Couldn't what ? '' Be an e efficient housekeeper . 
'' Who said you couldn't ? '' Aunt Hannah and K Kate . 
'' Bertram said a savage word under his breath . 
Holy smoke , Billy ! I didn't marry you for a cook or a scrub lady . 
But I didn't marry for a cook , and I knew I wasn't getting one when I married you . 
'' Billy bridled into instant wrath . 
Bless your spunky little heart , of course you have ! But that doesn't mean that I want you to do it . 
You see , it so happens that you can do other things , too and I'd rather you did those . 
Billy , you haven't played to me for a week , nor sung to me for a month . 
You're too tired every night to talk , or read together , or go anywhere with me . 
I married for companionship not cooking and sweeping ! '' Billy shook her head stubbornly . 
Her mouth settled into determined lines . 
That's all very well to say . 
You aren't hungry now , Bertram . 
But it's different when you are , and they said 'twould be . 
'' Humph ! They' are Aunt Hannah and Kate , I suppose . 
'' Yes and the Talk to Young Wives . 
'' The w what ? '' Billy choked a little . 
She had forgotten that Bertram did not know about the Talk to Young Wives . 
'' She wished that she had not mentioned the book , but now that she had , she would make the best of it . 
She drew herself up with dignity . 
It's a book a very nice book . 
It says lots of things that have come true . 
'' Where is that book ? Let me see it , please . 
'' With visible reluctance Billy got down from her perch on Bertram's knee , went to her desk and brought back the book . 
Bertram regarded it frowningly , so frowningly that Billy hastened to its defense . 
And it's true what it says in there , and what Aunt Hannah and Kate said . 
It is different when they're hungry ! You said yourself if I'd tend to my husband and my home a little more , and '' Bertram looked up with unfeigned amazement . 
I said what ? '' he demanded . 
In a voice shaken with emotion , Billy repeated the fateful words . 
I never when did I say that ? '' The night Uncle William and I came home from Pete's . 
'' For a moment Bertram stared dumbly then a shamed red swept to his forehead . 
Billy , did I say that ? I ought to be shot if I did . 
But , Billy , you said you'd forgiven me ! '' I did , dear truly I did but , don't you see ? it was true . 
I hadn't tended to things . 
So I've been doing it since . 
'' A sudden comprehension illuminated Bertram's face . 
It's there about the outside interests . 
See ? I was trying to brush up against them , so that I wouldn't interfere with your Art . 
Then , when you accused me of gallivanting off with '' But Bertram swept her back into his arms , and not for some minutes could Billy make a coherent speech again . 
We'll concede that point , if you like . 
But you do know now . 
What you need now is a good rest and you're going to have it , too . 
I'm going to have six Mary Ellens here to morrow morning . 
Six ! Do you hear ? And all you've got to do is to get your gladdest rags together for a trip to Europe with me next month . 
I shall get the tickets to morrow , after I send the six Mary Ellens packing up here . 
Now come , put on your bonnet . 
We're going down town to dinner . 
Billy agreed promptly , and declared herself as more than willing to put up with such an arrangement . 
Bertram , it is true , when he heard of the plan , rebelled , and asserted that what Billy needed was a rest , an entire rest from care and labor . 
In fact , what he wanted her to do , he said , was to gallivant to gallivant all day long . 
Nonsense ! '' Billy had laughed , coloring to the tips of her ears . 
You'll see ! '' All right , I'll see , then , '' Bertram had nodded meaningly . 
But just make sure that it is play for you ! '' I will , '' laughed Billy and there the matter had ended . 
Eliza began work the next day , and Billy did indeed soon find herself playing'' under Bertram's watchful insistence . 
She resumed her music , and brought out of exile the unfinished song . 
With Bertram she took drives and walks and every two or three days she went to see Aunt Hannah and Marie . 
At the Annex Billy found Calderwell and Arkwright , one day . 
They greeted her as if she had just returned from a far country . 
Well , if you aren't the stranger lady , '' began Calderwell , looking frankly pleased to see her . 
We'd thought of advertising in the daily press somewhat after this fashion Lost , strayed , or stolen , one Billy comrade , good friend , and kind cheerer up of lonely hearts . 
Any information thankfully received by her bereft , sorrowing friends . 
Calderwell , however , was not to be silenced . 
Where did you get hold of that ? '' she demanded . 
Oh , I didn't , '' returned the man , defensively . 
I never got hold of it at all . 
With her disdainful nose in the air she walked to the piano . 
Come , Mr. Arkwright , '' she said with dignity . 
'' Arkwright rose at once and accompanied her to the piano . 
Billy frowned , and twitched the corners of a pile of music , with restless fingers . 
I wonder if Alice hasn't got some quartets here somewhere , '' she murmured , her disapproving eyes still bent on the absorbed couple across the room . 
Billy , throwing a hurried glance into his face , thought she detected a somber shadow in his eyes . 
She thought , too , she knew why it was there . 
Instinctively , therefore , as to a coworker in a common cause , she turned a disturbed face to the man at her side . 
It is , indeed , high time that I looked after something besides lost calories , '' she said significantly . 
Then , at the evident uncomprehension in Arkwright's face , she added Has it been going on like this very long ? '' Arkwright still , apparently , did not understand . 
Has what been going on ? '' he questioned . 
wilfully blind insistence on her making her meaning more plain . 
Has it been going on long such utter devotion ? '' As she asked the question Billy turned and looked squarely into Arkwright's face . 
She saw , therefore , the great change that came to it , as her meaning became clear to him . 
Her first feeling was one of shocked realization that Arkwright had , indeed , been really blind . 
Her second she turned away her eyes hurriedly from what she thought she saw in the man's countenance . 
With an assumedly gay little cry she sprang to her feet . 
Come , come , what are you two children chuckling over ? '' she demanded , crossing the room abruptly . 
She declared that she ought to have known better , and she asked herself if this were the way she was furthering matters'' between Alice Greggory and Arkwright . 
Billy was really seriously disturbed . 
She had never quite forgiven herself for being so blind to Arkwright's feeling for herself during those days when he had not known of her engagement to Bertram . 
She had never forgotten , either , the painful scene when he had hopefully told of his love , only to be met with her own shocked repudiation . 
For long weeks after that , his face had haunted her . 
She had wished , oh , so ardently , that she could do something in some way to bring him happiness . 
When , therefore , it had come to her knowledge afterward that he was frequently with his old friend , Alice Greggory , she had been so glad . 
Billy told herself , virtuously , however , that not only for Arkwright did she desire this marriage to take place , but for Alice Greggory . 
In the very nature of things Alice would one day be left alone . 
She was poor , and not very strong . 
She sorely needed the shielding love and care of a good husband . 
Billy's distress at this turn of affairs indicated very plainly that it was not just a husband , but a certain one particular husband that she desired for Alice Greggory . 
It was to be Alice and Calderwell , not Alice and Arkwright . 
Arkwright was again to be disappointed in his dearest hopes . 
Telling herself indignantly that it could not be , it should not be , Billy determined to remain after the men had gone , and speak to Alice . 
Just what she would say she did not know . 
Even what she could say , she was not sure . 
But certainly there must be something , some little thing that she could say , which would open Alice's eyes to what she was doing , and what she ought to do . 
It was in this frame of mind , therefore , that Billy , after Arkwright and Calderwell had gone , spoke to Alice . 
She began warily , with assumed nonchalance . 
I believe Mr. Arkwright sings better every time I hear him . 
'' There was no answer . 
Alice was sorting music at the piano . 
Don't you think so ? '' Billy raised her voice a little . 
Alice turned almost with a start . 
What's that ? Oh , yes . 
Well , I don't know maybe I do . 
'' You would if you didn't hear him any oftener than I do , '' laughed Billy . 
But then , of course you do hear him oftener . 
'' I ? Oh , no , indeed . 
Not so very much oftener . 
'' Alice had turned back to her music . 
There was a slight embarrassment in her manner . 
I wonder where that new song is , '' she murmured . 
Billy , who knew very well where the song lay , was not to be diverted . 
For that matter , I fancy he asks your opinion of everything , anyway . 
'' Why , Billy , he doesn't ! '' exclaimed Alice , a deep red flaming into her cheeks . 
She had not been slow to note the color in her friend's face , or to ascribe to it the one meaning she wished to ascribe to it . 
So sure , indeed , was she now that her fears had been groundless , that she flung caution to the winds . 
Ho ! My dear Alice , you can't expect us all to be blind , '' she teased . 
Besides , we all think it's such a lovely arrangement that we're just glad to see it . 
Why , Alice ! '' she faltered then . 
With a visible effort Alice forced her trembling lips to speak . 
Friends ! Nonsense ! When '' But Alice interrupted feverishly . 
Alice , in an agony of fear lest the true state of affairs should be suspected , was hiding behind a bulwark of pride . 
Now , Billy , please ! Say no more . 
You're quite wrong , entirely . 
You'll never , never hear of my marrying Mr. Arkwright . 
As I said before , we're friends the best of friends that is all . 
We couldn't be anything else , possibly ! '' Billy , plainly discomfited , fell back but she threw a sharp glance into her friend's flushed countenance . 
You mean because of Hugh Calderwell ? '' she demanded . 
Then , for the second time that afternoon throwing discretion to the winds , she went on plaintively You won't listen , of course . 
Girls in love never do . 
Hugh is all right , and I like him but there's more real solid worth in Mr. Arkwright's little finger than there is in Hugh's whole self . 
And '' But a merry peal of laughter from Alice Greggory interrupted . 
And , pray , do you think I'm in love with Hugh Calderwell ? '' she demanded . 
There was a curious note of something very like relief in her voice . 
Well , I didn't know , '' began Billy , uncertainly . 
Then I'll tell you now , '' smiled Alice . 
Furthermore , perhaps it's just as well that you should know right now that I don't intend to marry ever . 
'' Oh , Alice ! '' No. '' There was determination , and there was still that curious note of relief in the girl's voice . 
It was as if , somewhere , a great danger had been avoided . 
I'm not intending to marry . 
At that moment , too , Aunt Hannah came in from the street , so Billy could say no more . 
Aunt Hannah dropped herself a little wearily into a chair . 
I've just come from Marie's , '' she said . 
How is she ? '' asked Billy . 
Aunt Hannah smiled , and raised her eyebrows . 
Well , just now she's quite exercised over another rattle from her cousin out West , this time . 
There were four little silver bells on it , and she hasn't got any janitor's wife now to give it to . 
'' Billy laughed softly , but Aunt Hannah had more to say . 
You know she isn't going to allow any toys but Teddy bears and woolly lambs , of which , I believe , she has already bought quite an assortment . 
She says they don't rattle or squeak . 
I declare , when I see the woolen pads and rubber hushers that that child has put everywhere all over the house , I don't know whether to laugh or cry . 
But what he'll do when the baby comes she says she doesn't know , for she says she can't she just can't keep it from bothering him some , she's afraid . 
Eliza's face was not a little troubled . 
I'm afraid , maybe , it isn't good news , '' she stammered , as her mistress hurriedly arose . 
She's at Mr. Cyril Henshaw's Mrs. Stetson is and she seemed so terribly upset about something that there was no making real sense out of what she said . 
But she asked for you , and said to have you come quick . 
'' Billy , her own face paling , was already at the telephone . 
What is it ? '' Oh , my grief and conscience , Billy , if you can , come up here , please . 
You must come ! Can't you come ? '' Why , yes , of course . 
But but Marie ! The the baby ! '' A faint groan came across the wires . 
Oh , my grief and conscience , Billy ! It isn't the baby . 
It's babies ! It's twins boys . 
Cyril has them now the nurse hasn't got here yet . 
'' Twins ! Cyril has them ! '' broke in Billy , hysterically . 
Yes , and they're crying something terrible . 
We've sent for a second nurse to come , too , of course , but she hasn't got here yet , either . 
And those babies if you could hear them ! That's what we want you for , to '' But Billy was almost laughing now . 
All right , I'll come out and hear them , '' she called a bit wildly , as she hung up the receiver . 
Some little time later , a palpably nervous maid admitted Billy to the home of Mr. and Mrs. Cyril Henshaw . 
Even as the door was opened , Billy heard faintly , but unmistakably , the moaning wails of two infants . 
Mrs. Stetson says if you will please to help Mr. Henshaw with the babies , '' stammered the maid , after the preliminary questions and answers . 
I've been in when I could , and they're all right , only they're crying . 
We had to put them as far away as possible their crying worried Mrs. Henshaw so . 
'' Yes , I see , '' murmured Billy . 
I'll go to them at once . 
No , don't trouble to come . 
Just tell Mrs. Stetson I'm here , please , '' she finished , as she tossed her hat and gloves on to the hall table , and turned to go upstairs . 
Billy's feet made no sound on the soft rugs . 
The crying , however , grew louder and louder as she approached the den . 
Softly she turned the knob and pushed open the door . 
She stopped short , then , at what she saw . 
Cyril had not heard her , nor seen her . 
His back was partly toward the door . 
His coat was off , and his hair stood fiercely on end as if a nervous hand had ruffled it . 
His usually pale face was very red , and his forehead showed great drops of perspiration . 
In one hand Cyril held a Teddy bear , in the other his watch , dangling from its fob chain . 
Both of these he shook feebly , one after the other , above the tiny faces . 
Oh , come , come , pretty baby , good baby , hush , hush , '' he begged agitatedly . 
In the doorway Billy clapped her hands to her lips and stifled a laugh . 
Cyril laid down the watch and flung the Teddy bear aside . 
Then , in very evident despair , he gingerly picked up one of the rumpled rolls of flannel , lace , and linen , and held it straight out before him . 
After a moment's indecision he began awkwardly to jounce it , teeter it , rock it back and forth , and to pat it jerkily . 
Oh , come , come , pretty baby , good baby , hush , hush , '' he begged again , frantically . 
Perhaps it was the change of position perhaps it was the novelty of the motion , perhaps it was only utter weariness , or lack of breath . 
Whatever the cause , the wailing sobs from the bundle in his arms dwindled suddenly to a gentle whisper , then ceased altogether . 
With a ray of hope illuminating his drawn countenance , Cyril carefully laid the baby down and picked up the other . 
Almost confidently now he began the jouncing and teetering and rocking as before . 
There , there ! Oh , come , come , pretty baby , good baby , hush , hush , '' he chanted again . 
This time he was not so successful . 
Perhaps he had lost his skill . 
Perhaps it was merely the world old difference in babies . 
Billy hurried forward then , tearfully , remorsefully , her face all sympathy , her arms all tenderness . 
Here , Cyril , let me help you , '' she cried . 
Thank God , some one's come , '' he groaned , holding out both the babies , with an exuberance of generosity . 
Billy , you've saved my life ! '' Billy laughed tremulously . 
Yes , I've come , Cyril , and I'll help every bit I can but I don't know a thing not a single thing about them myself . 
Dear me , aren't they cunning ? But , Cyril , do they always cry so ? '' The father of an hour drew himself stiffly erect . 
Cry ? What do you mean ? Why shouldn't they cry ? '' he demanded indignantly . 
Billy , following the direction of his eyes , suppressed a smile . 
On the top of Cyril's manuscript music on the table lay a hot water bottle . 
Draped over the back of his favorite chair was a pink bordered baby blanket . 
On the piano stool rested a beribboned and beruffled baby's toilet basket . 
From behind the sofa pillow leered ridiculously the Teddy bear , just as it had left Cyril's desperate hand . 
No wonder , indeed , that Billy smiled . 
Billy was thinking of what Marie had said not a week before I shall keep the baby , of course , in the nursery . 
I've been in homes where they've had baby things strewn from one end of the house to the other but it won't be that way here . 
In the first place , I don't believe in it but , even if I did , I'd have to be careful on account of Cyril . 
'' Billy suppressed many a smile during the days that immediately followed the coming of the twins . 
Some of the smiles , however , refused to be suppressed . 
They became , indeed , shamelessly audible chuckles . 
The twins were proving themselves to be fine , healthy boys . 
Two trained maids , and two trained nurses ruled the household with a rod of iron . 
As to Cyril Billy declared that Cyril was learning something every day of his life now . 
Oh , yes , he's learning things , '' she said to Aunt Hannah , one morning lots of things . 
For instance he has his breakfast now , not when he wants it , but when the maid wants to give it to him which is precisely at eight o'clock every morning . 
'' Aunt Hannah laughed , though she frowned , too . 
But , surely , Billy , with two nurses and the maids , Cyril doesn't have to to '' She came to a helpless pause . 
You see , Marie must be kept quiet , and the nursery is very near her room . 
It worries her terribly when either of the children cries . 
'' You mean they take those babies into Cyril's den now ? '' Even Aunt Hannah was plainly aghast . 
Yes , '' twinkled Billy . 
I fancy their Hygienic Immaculacies approved of Cyril's bare floors , undraped windows , and generally knick knackless condition . 
Anyhow , they've made his den a sort of of annex to the nursery . 
'' But but Cyril ! What does he say ? '' stammered the dumfounded Aunt Hannah . 
Think of Cyril's standing a thing like that ! Doesn't he do anything or say anything ? '' Billy smiled , and lifted her brows quizzically . 
He's as meek as Moses , and has been ever since his two young sons were laid in his reluctant , trembling arms . 
'' Nonsense ! '' scoffed Aunt Hannah . 
But it's so , '' maintained Billy , merrily . 
by playing exactly as he feels . 
Of course I don't know exactly what happened , but Julia Marie's second maid , you know tells the story . 
She's been with them long enough to know something of the way the whole household always turns on the pivot of the master's whims so she fully appreciated the situation . 
But I didn't do it , ma'am , Julia says . 
I wa'n't lookin' for losin' my place , an' I let the young woman do the job herself . 
An' she done it , pert as you please . 
So you see , '' finished Billy , Cyril is learning things lots of things . 
'' Oh , my grief and conscience ! I should say he was , '' half shivered Aunt Hannah . 
Cyril looking meek as a lamb , indeed ! '' Billy laughed merrily . 
Well , it must be a new experience for Cyril . 
However , it'll be different , of course , when Marie is on her feet again . 
'' Does she know at all how things are going ? '' Not very much , as yet , though I believe she has begun to worry some . 
'' Do something noisy , indeed ! '' ejaculated Aunt Hannah . 
As for the real state of affairs , Marie doesn't dream that Cyril's sacred den is given over to Teddy bears and baby blankets . 
All is , I hope she'll be measurably strong before she does find it out , '' laughed Billy , as she rose to go . 
CHAPTER XX ARKWRIGHT'S EYES ARE OPENED William came back from his business trip the eighth of July , and on the ninth Billy and Bertram went to New York . 
Eliza's mother was so well now that Eliza had taken up her old quarters in the Strata , and the household affairs were once more running like clockwork . 
Later in the season William would go away for a month's fishing trip , and the house would be closed . 
Marie and the babies were doing finely , and Aunt Hannah's health , and affairs at the Annex , were all that could be desired . 
There was , then , this one cloud on Billy's horizon as the big boat that was to bear her across the water steamed down the harbor that beautiful July day . 
As it chanced , naturally , perhaps , not only was Billy thinking of Arkwright that morning , but Arkwright was thinking of Billy . 
Arkwright had thought frequently of Billy during the last few days , particularly since that afternoon meeting at the Annex when the four had renewed their old good times together . 
Up to that day Arkwright had been trying not to think of Billy . 
He had been fighting his tiger skin . 
He had known , of course , that deep down in his heart he loved her , always had loved her , and always would love her . 
Hopelessly and drearily he accepted this as a fact even while with all his might fighting that tiger skin . 
The first intimation of all this had come with his curious feeling of unreasoning hatred and blind indignation toward Calderwell as , through Billy's eyes , he had seen the two together . 
Then had come the overwhelming longing to pick up Alice Greggory and run off with her somewhere , anywhere , so that Calderwell could not follow . 
He was in love with Billy that is It was all confusion then , in his mind , and he was glad indeed when he could leave the house . 
He wanted to be alone . 
He must , in some way , thrash out this astounding thing that had come to him . 
Arkwright did not visit the Annex again for some days . 
Until he was more nearly sure of himself and of his feelings , he did not wish to see Alice Greggory . 
It was then that he began to think of Billy , deliberately , purposefully , for it must be , of course , that he had made a mistake , he told himself . 
It must be that he did , really , still care for Billy though of course he ought not to . 
Arkwright made another discovery then . 
He learned that , however deliberately he started in to think of Billy , he ended every time in thinking of Alice . 
He thought of how good she had been to him , and of how faithful she had been in helping him to fight his love for Billy . 
No longer was there any use in beating about the bush . 
He did love Alice Greggory but so curiously and unbelievably stupid had he been that he had not found it out until now . 
And now it was too late . 
Away back in their young days in their native town they had been , indeed , almost sweethearts , in a boy and girl fashion . 
It would not have taken much in those days , he believed , to have made the relationship more interesting . 
Alice had left town , and for years they had drifted apart . 
Then had come Billy , and Billy had found Alice , thus bringing about the odd circumstance of their renewing of acquaintanceship . 
Perhaps , at that time , if he had not already thought he cared for Billy , there would have been something more than acquaintanceship . 
It was while he was in this unenviable frame of mind that he went to see Alice . 
Not that he had planned definitely to speak to her of his discovery , nor yet that he had planned not to . 
He had , indeed , planned nothing . 
For a man usually so decided as to purpose and energetic as to action , he was in a most unhappy state of uncertainty and changeableness . 
One thing only was unmistakably clear to him , and that was that he must see Alice . 
To Alice , therefore , now he turned as a matter of course , telling himself vaguely that , perhaps , after he had seen Alice , he would feel better . 
Just how intimately this particular problem of his concerned Alice herself , he did not stop to realize . 
He did not , indeed , think of it at all from Alice's standpoint until he came face to face with the girl in the living room at the Annex . 
Then , suddenly , he did . 
His manner became at once , consequently , full of embarrassment and quite devoid of its usual frank friendliness . 
Alice had not been slow to note Arkwright's prolonged absence from the Annex . 
Coming as it did so soon after her most disconcerting talk with Billy in regard to her own relations with him , it had filled her with frightened questionings . 
Perhaps he was even doing it to show her that Even in her thoughts Alice could scarcely bring herself to finish the sentence . 
That Arkwright should ever suspect for a moment that she cared for him was intolerable . 
Painfully conscious as she was that she did care for him , it was easy to fear that others must be conscious of it , too . 
When , therefore , he finally did appear , only to become at once obviously embarrassed in her presence , her fears instantly became convictions . 
It was true , then . 
The man did believe she cared for him , and he had been trying to teach her to save her . 
How do you do ? '' she greeted him , with a particularly bright smile . 
I'm sure I hope you are well , such a beautiful day as this . 
'' Oh , yes , I'm well , I suppose . 
Still , I have felt better in my life , '' smiled Arkwright , with some constraint . 
Oh , I'm sorry , '' murmured the girl , striving so hard to speak with impersonal unconcern that she did not notice the inaptness of her reply . 
Eh ? Sorry I've felt better , are you ? '' retorted Arkwright , with nervous humor . 
'' Alice , smarting under the sting of what she judged to be the only possible cause for his embarrassment , leaped to this new opportunity to show her lack of interest . 
Oh , has it ? '' she murmured carelessly . 
Well , I don't know but it has , now that I come to think of it . 
A week ago he would have tossed back a laughingly aggrieved remark as to her unflattering indifference to his presence . 
Now he was in no mood for such joking . 
It was too serious a matter with him . 
You've been busy , no doubt , with other matters , '' he presumed forlornly , thinking of Calderwell . 
Yes , I have been busy , '' assented the girl . 
One is always happier , I think , to be busy . 
Not that I meant that I needed the work to be happy , '' she added hastily , in a panic lest he think she had a consuming sorrow to kill . 
No , of course not , '' he murmured abstractedly , rising to his feet and crossing the room to the piano . 
Then , with an elaborate air of trying to appear very natural , he asked jovially Anything new to play to me ? '' Alice arose at once . 
I have a little nocturne that I was playing to Mr. Calderwell last night . 
'' Oh , to Calderwell ! '' Arkwright had stiffened perceptibly . 
I'll play it to you and see what you say , '' she smiled , seating herself at the piano . 
Well , if he had liked it , it's safe to say I shouldn't , '' shrugged Arkwright . 
Nonsense ! '' laughed the girl , beginning to appear more like her natural self . 
I should think you were Mr. Cyril Henshaw ! Mr. Calderwell is partial to ragtime , I'll admit . 
But there are some good things he likes . 
Alice , unaware both of the melancholy gaze bent upon herself and of the cause thereof , laughed again merrily . 
Poor Mr. Calderwell , '' she cried , as she let her fingers slide into soft , introductory chords . 
He isn't to blame for not liking what he calls our lost spirits that wail . 
It's just the way he's made . 
'' Arkwright vouchsafed no reply . 
With an abrupt gesture he turned and began to pace the room moodily . 
At the piano Alice slipped from the chords into the nocturne . 
She played it straight through , then , with a charm and skill that brought Arkwright's feet to a pause before it was half finished . 
By George , that's great ! '' he breathed , when the last tone had quivered into silence . 
Yes , isn't it beautiful ? '' she murmured . 
The room was very quiet , and in semi darkness . 
The last rays of a late June sunset had been filling the room with golden light , but it was gone now . 
Even at the piano by the window , Alice had barely been able to see clearly enough to read the notes of her nocturne . 
To Arkwright the air still trembled with the exquisite melody that had but just left her fingers . 
A quick fire came to his eyes . 
He forgot everything but that it was Alice there in the half light by the window Alice , whom he loved . 
With a low cry he took a swift step toward her . 
Alice ! '' Instantly the girl was on her feet . 
But it was not toward him that she turned . 
It was away resolutely , and with a haste that was strangely like terror . 
Alice , too , had forgotten , for just a moment . 
She had let herself drift into a dream world where there was nothing but the music she was playing and the man she loved . 
Then the music had stopped , and the man had spoken her name . 
She remembered Billy , whom this man loved . 
She remembered the long days just passed when this man had stayed away , presumably to teach her to save her . 
And now , at the sound of his voice speaking her name , she had almost bared her heart to him . 
No wonder that Alice , with a haste that looked like terror , crossed the floor and flooded the room with light . 
Dear me ! '' she shivered , carefully avoiding Arkwright's eyes . 
If Mr. Calderwell were here now he'd have some excuse to talk about our lost spirits that wail . 
Once again at the mention of Calderwell's name Arkwright stiffened perceptibly . 
The fire left his eyes . 
For a moment he did not speak then , gravely , he said Calderwell ? Yes , perhaps he would and you ought to be a judge , I should think . 
You see him quite frequently , don't you ? '' Why , yes , of course . 
He often comes out here , you know . 
'' Yes I had heard that he did since you came . 
'' His meaning was unmistakable . 
She could not affirm , of course but she need not deny yet . 
Nonsense ! '' she laughed lightly , pleased that she could feel what she hoped would pass for a telltale color burning her cheeks . 
Come , let us try some duets , '' she proposed , leading the way to the piano . 
And Arkwright , interpreting the apparently embarrassed change of subject exactly as she had hoped that he would interpret it , followed her , sick at heart . 
O wert thou in the cauld blast , '' sang Arkwright's lips a few moments later . 
I can't tell her now when I know she cares for Calderwell , '' gloomily ran his thoughts , the while . 
It would do no possible good , and would only make her unhappy to grieve me . 
'' O wert thou in the cauld blast , '' chimed in Alice's alto , low and sweet . 
I reckon now he won't be staying away from here any more just to save me ! '' ran Alice's thoughts , palpitatingly triumphant . 
CHAPTER XXI BILLY TAKES HER TURN AT QUESTIONING Arkwright did not call to see Alice Greggory for some days . 
He did not want to see Alice now . 
So he deliberately stayed away from the Annex until the day before he sailed for Germany . 
Then he went out to say good by . 
Naturally , therefore , the call was anything but a joy and comfort to either one . 
Arkwright was nervous , gloomy , and abnormally gay by turns . 
Alice was nervous and abnormally gay all the time . 
Then they said good by and Arkwright went away . 
He sailed the next day , and Alice settled down to the summer of study and hard work she had laid out for herself . 
On the tenth of September Billy came home . 
She was brown , plump cheeked , and smiling . 
She declared that she had had a perfectly beautiful time , and that there couldn't be anything in the world nicer than the trip she and Bertram had taken just they two together . 
In answer to Aunt Hannah's solicitous inquiries , she asserted that she was all well and rested now . 
But there was a vaguely troubled questioning in her eyes that Aunt Hannah did not quite like . 
Aunt Hannah , however , said nothing even to Billy herself about this . 
One of the first friends Billy saw after her return was Hugh Calderwell . 
As it happened Bertram was out when he came , so Billy had the first half hour of the call to herself . 
She was not sorry for this , as it gave her a chance to question Calderwell a little concerning Alice Greggory something she had long ago determined to do at the first opportunity . 
Now tell me everything everything about everybody , '' she began diplomatically , settling herself comfortably for a good visit . 
I have been to Revere once , to the circus once , to Nantasket three times , and to Keith's and the movies' ten times , perhaps to be accurate . 
I have also But perhaps there was some one else you desired to inquire for , '' he broke off , turning upon his hostess a bland but unsmiling countenance . 
Oh , no , how could there be ? '' twinkled Billy . 
Really , Hugh , I always knew you had a pretty good opinion of yourself , but I didn't credit you with thinking you were everybody . 
I'm so interested ! '' Hugh chuckled softly but there was a plaintive tone in his voice as he answered . 
I've rather lost my interest now . 
Lack of appreciation always did discourage me . 
We'll talk of something else , please . 
You enjoyed your trip ? '' Very much . 
It just couldn't have been nicer ! '' You were lucky . 
The heat here has been something fierce ! '' What made you stay ? '' Reasons too numerous , and one too heart breaking , to mention . 
Besides , you forget , '' with dignity . 
I have joined the workers of the world now , you know . 
'' Oh , fudge , Hugh ! '' laughed Billy . 
You know very well you're as likely as not to start for the ends of the earth to morrow morning ! '' Hugh drew himself up . 
I don't seem to succeed in making people understand that I'm serious , '' he began aggrievedly . 
I '' With an expressive flourish of his hands he relaxed suddenly , and fell back in his chair . 
A slow smile came to his lips . 
Well , Billy , I'll give up . 
You've hit it , '' he confessed . 
I have thought seriously of starting to morrow morning for half way to the ends of the earth Panama . 
'' Hugh ! '' Well , I have . 
Even this call was to be a good by if I went . 
'' Oh , Hugh ! But I really thought in spite of my teasing that you had settled down , this time . 
'' Yes , so did I , '' sighed the man , a little soberly . 
But I guess it's no use , Billy . 
Oh , I'm coming back , of course , and link arms again with their worthy Highnesses , John Doe and Richard Roe but just now I've got a restless fit on me . 
I want to see the wheels go 'round . 
Of course , if I had my bread and butter and cigars to earn , 'twould be different . 
But I haven't , and I know I haven't and I suspect that's where the trouble lies . 
If it wasn't for those natal silver spoons of mine that Bertram is always talking about , things might be different . 
So I just say the word . 
'' And you've said it now ? '' Yes , I think so for a while . 
Then , with the feeling that she had followed a blind alley to its termination , she retreated and made a fresh start . 
Well , you haven't yet told me everything about everybody , you know , '' she hinted smilingly . 
You might begin that I mean the less important everybodies , of course , now that I've heard about you . 
'' Meaning '' Oh , Aunt Hannah , and the Greggorys , and Cyril and Marie , and the twins , and Mr. Arkwright , and all the rest . 
'' But you've had letters , surely . 
'' Yes , I've had letters from some of them , and I've seen most of them since I came back . 
It's just that I wanted to know your viewpoint of what's happened through the summer . 
Aunt Hannah is as dear as ever , wears just as many shawls , and still keeps her clock striking twelve when it's half past eleven . 
Mrs. Greggory is just as sweet as ever and a little more frail , I fear , bless her heart ! Mr. Arkwright is still abroad , as I presume you know . 
I hear he is doing great stunts over there , and will sing in Berlin and Paris this winter . 
I'm thinking of going across from Panama later . 
If I do I shall look him up . 
Mr. and Mrs. Cyril are as well as could be expected when you realize that they haven't yet settled on a pair of names for the twins . 
'' I know it and the poor little things three months old , too ! I think it's a shame . 
You've heard the reason , I suppose . 
He wants to wait till the twins are eighteen , and then make each of them a birthday present of the name of their own choosing . 
'' Well , if that isn't the limit ! '' laughed Calderwell . 
I'd heard some such thing before , but I hadn't supposed it was really so . 
'' Well , it is . 
'' Humph ! '' grunted Calderwell . 
I saw Cyril last week , and he said he hadn't named the twins yet , but he didn't tell me why . 
I offered him two perfectly good names myself , but he didn't seem interested . 
'' What were they ? '' Eldad and Bildad . 
'' Hugh ! '' protested Billy . 
Well , why not ? '' bridled the man . 
I'm sure those are new and unique , and really musical , too 'way ahead of your Franz and Felix . 
'' But those aren't really names ! '' Indeed they are . 
'' Where did you get them ? '' Off our family tree , though they're Bible names , Belle says . 
Perhaps you didn't know , but Sister Belle has been making the dirt fly quite lively of late around that family tree of ours , and she wrote me some of her discoveries . 
It seems two of the roots , or branches say , are ancestors roots , or branches ? were called Eldad and Bildad . 
Now I thought those names were good enough to pass along , but , as I said before , Cyril wasn't interested . 
'' I should say not , '' laughed Billy . 
But , honestly , Hugh , it's really serious . 
Marie wants them named something , but she doesn't say much to Cyril . 
Marie wouldn't really breathe , you know , if she thought Cyril disapproved of breathing . 
And in this case Cyril does not hesitate to declare that the boys shall name themselves . 
'' What a situation ! '' laughed Calderwell . 
Isn't it ? But , do you know , I can sympathize with it , in a way , for I've always mourned so over my name . 
Billy' was always such a trial to me ! Poor Uncle William wasn't the only one that prepared guns and fishing rods to entertain the expected boy . 
Evidently I thought that Helen Clarabella' was the most feminine appellation possible , and the most foreign to the despised Billy . 
So you see I can sympathize with Cyril to a certain extent . 
'' But they must call the little chaps something , now , '' argued Hugh . 
Billy gave a sudden merry laugh . 
They do , '' she gurgled , and that's the funniest part of it . 
He always calls them impersonally they' or it . 
He doesn't see much of them anyway , now , I understand . 
Marie was horrified when she realized how the nurses had been using his den as a nursery annex and she changed all that instanter , when she took charge of things again . 
The twins stay in the nursery now , I'm told . 
But about the names the nurses , it seems , have got into the way of calling them Dot' and Dimple . 
One has a dimple in his cheek , and the other is a little smaller of the two . 
Not I regard that as worse than my Eldad' and Bildad . 
'' I know it , and Alice says By the way , you haven't mentioned Alice , but I suppose you see her occasionally . 
'' Billy paused in evident expectation of a reply . 
Billy was , in fact , quite pluming herself on the adroit casualness with which she had introduced the subject nearest her heart . 
Oh , yes , I see her . 
'' But you hadn't mentioned her . 
'' There was the briefest of pauses then with a half quizzical dejection , there came the remark You seem to forget . 
I told you that I stayed here this summer for reasons too numerous , and one too heart breaking , to mention . 
'' You mean '' Yes . 
Oh , I haven't asked her yet as many times as I did you , but '' Hugh ! '' Hugh tossed her a grim smile and went on imperturbably . 
I'm older now , of course , and know more , perhaps . 
Besides , the finality of her remarks was not to be mistaken . 
'' Billy , in spite of her sympathy for Calderwell , was conscious of a throb of relief that at least one stumbling block was removed from Arkwright's possible pathway to Alice's heart . 
Did she give any special reason ? '' hazarded Billy , a shade too anxiously . 
She said she wasn't going to marry anybody only her music . 
'' Nonsense ! '' ejaculated Billy , falling back in her chair a little . 
Yes , I said that , too , '' gloomed the man but it didn't do any good . 
You see , I had known another girl who'd said the same thing once . 
And she when the right one came forgot all about the music , and married the man . 
So I naturally suspected that Alice would do the same thing . 
In fact , I said so to her . 
'' Oh h ! '' said Billy , in a disappointed voice , falling quite back in her chair this time . 
And so that's why I'm wanting especially just now to see the wheels go 'round , '' smiled Calderwell , a little wistfully . 
Oh , I shall get over it , I suppose . 
It isn't the first time , I'll own but some day I take it there will be a last time . 
Enough of this , however ! You haven't told me a thing about yourself . 
Eliza has come back , and her cousin from Vermont is coming as second girl to help her . 
It was the next afternoon that Billy called on Marie . 
Not until just before Billy went home did something occur to give Aunt Hannah a possible clue as to what was the meaning of it . 
That something was a question from Billy . 
I don't find anything like that in my face , when I look in the glass . 
And I don't feel detached and absorbed and heavenly . 
'' Billy ! Third person , indeed ! '' There ! I knew 'twould shock you , '' mourned Billy . 
I want to feel detached and heavenly and absorbed . 
'' But Billy , dear , think of it calling your own baby a third person ! '' Billy sighed despairingly . 
And I suppose I might as well own up to the rest of it too . 
I I'm actually afraid of babies , Aunt Hannah ! Well , I am , '' she reiterated , in answer to Aunt Hannah's gasp of disapproval . 
I'm not used to them at all . 
I never had any little brothers and sisters , and I don't know how to treat babies . 
I I'm always afraid they'll break , or something . 
I'm just as afraid of the twins as I can be . 
How Marie can handle them , and toss them about as she does , I don't see . 
'' Toss them about , indeed ! '' Well , it looks that way to me , '' sighed Billy . 
Everybody always is , it seems , but just me . 
'' Fiddlededee , my dear ! '' scoffed Aunt Hannah , patting Billy's downcast face . 
Wait till a year from now , and we'll see about that third person bugaboo you're worrying about . 
Cyril , in quest of his wife at about ten o'clock that morning , and not finding her , pursued his search even to the nursery a room he very seldom entered . 
Cyril did not like to go into the nursery . 
He felt ill at ease , and as if he were away from home and Cyril was known to abhor being away from home since he was married . 
Now that Marie had taken over the reins of government again , he had been obliged to see very little of those strange women and babies . 
Not but that he liked the babies , of course . 
They were his sons , and he was proud of them . 
They should have every advantage that college , special training , and travel could give them . 
He quite anticipated what they would be to him when they really knew anything . 
Since Marie had been at the helm , however , he had not been troubled in such a way . 
For that reason , therefore , he always avoided the nursery when possible . 
But to day he wanted his wife , and his wife was not to be found anywhere else in the house . 
So , reluctantly , he turned his steps toward the nursery , and , with a frown , knocked and pushed open the door . 
Is Mrs. Henshaw here ? '' he demanded , not over gently . 
Absolute silence greeted his question . 
The man saw then that there was no one in the room save a baby sitting on a mat in the middle of the floor , barricaded on all sides with pillows . 
With a deeper frown the man turned to go , when a gleeful Ah goo ! '' halted his steps midway . 
Er eh ? '' he queried , uncertainly eyeing his small son on the floor . 
, with greater emphasis and this time he sent into his father's eyes the most bewitching of smiles . 
Well , by George ! '' murmured the man , weakly , a dawning amazement driving the frown from his face . 
Spgggh oo wah ! '' gurgled the boy , holding out two tiny fists . 
A slow smile came to the man's face . 
Well , I'll be darned , '' he muttered half shamefacedly , wholly delightedly . 
If the rascal doesn't act as if he knew me ! '' Ah goo spggghh ! '' grinned the infant , toothlessly , but entrancingly . 
With almost a stealthy touch Cyril closed the door back of him , and advanced a little dubiously toward his son . 
His countenance carried a mixture of guilt , curiosity , and dogged determination so ludicrous that it was a pity none but baby eyes could see it . 
As if to meet more nearly on a level this baffling new acquaintance , Cyril got to his knees somewhat stiffly , it must be confessed and faced his son . 
Goo eee ooo yah ! '' crowed the baby now , thrashing legs and arms about in a transport of joy at the acquisition of this new playmate . 
Well , well , young man , you you don't say so ! '' stammered the growingly proud father , thrusting a plainly timid and unaccustomed finger toward his offspring . 
Well , I expect I am , and '' Oh , Cyril ! '' The door had opened , and Marie was in the room . 
If she gave a start of surprise at her husband's unaccustomed attitude , she quickly controlled herself . 
Julia said you wanted me . 
Before Mrs. Henshaw could answer , Cyril , who had got to his feet , turned sharply . 
Is it who ? '' he demanded . 
Oh ! Oh , Mr. Henshaw , '' stammered the girl . 
I didn't know you were here . 
It was only that I wanted to know which baby it was . 
We thought we had Dot with us , until '' Dot ! Dimple ! '' exploded the man . 
Cyril turned to his wife . 
Marie , what is the meaning of this ? '' he demanded . 
Why , Cyril , dear , don't don't get so wrought up , '' she begged . 
It's only as Mary said , we had to call them something , and '' Wrought up , indeed ! '' interrupted Cyril , savagely . 
Dot and Dimple , indeed ! '' he went on wrathfully . 
We'll name those boys to day , Marie , to day ! Not once again will I let the sun go down on a Dot and a Dimple under my roof . 
'' Marie turned with a quick little cry of happiness . 
Great Scott ! '' And , entirely forgetting what he had come to the nursery for , Cyril strode from the room . 
Ah goo spggggh ! '' commented baby from the middle of the floor . 
It was on a very windy March day that Bertram Henshaw's son , Bertram , Jr . 
, arrived at the Strata . 
Even when the days had become weeks , and Bertram , Jr . 
, was a month and a half old , the extreme lassitude and weariness of his young mother was a source of ever growing anxiety to her family and friends . 
Billy was so unlike herself , they all said . 
If something could only rouse her , '' suggested the Henshaw's old family physician one day . 
A certain sort of mental shock if not too severe would do the deed , I think , and with no injury only benefit . 
Her physical condition is in just the state that needs a stimulus to stir it into new life and vigor . 
'' As it happened , this was said on a certain Monday . 
Two days later Bertram's sister Kate , on her way with her husband to Mr. Hartwell's old home in Vermont , stopped over in Boston for a two days' visit . 
She made her headquarters at Cyril's home , but very naturally she went , without much delay , to pay her respects to Bertram , Jr . 
Mr. Hartwell's brother isn't well , '' she explained to Billy , after the greetings were over . 
You know he's the only one left there , since Mother and Father Hartwell came West . 
By the way , how perfectly ridiculous Cyril is over those boys ! '' Is he ? '' smiled Billy , faintly . 
One would think there were never any babies born before , to hear him talk . 
He thinks they're the most wonderful things in the world and they are cunning little fellows , I'll admit . 
But Cyril thinks they know so much , '' went on Kate , laughingly . 
He's always bragging of something one or the other of them has done . 
Think of it Cyril ! Marie says it all started from the time last January when he discovered the nurses had been calling them Dot and Dimple . 
'' Yes , I know , '' smiled Billy again , faintly , lifting a thin , white , very un Billy like hand to her head . 
Kate frowned , and regarded her sister in law thoughtfully . 
Mercy ! how you look , Billy ! '' she exclaimed , with cheerful tactlessness . 
They said you did , but , I declare , you look worse than I thought . 
'' Billy's pale face reddened perceptibly . 
Nonsense ! It's just that I'm so so tired , '' she insisted . 
I shall be all right soon . 
How did you leave the children ? '' Well , and happy 'specially little Kate , because mother was going away . 
Kate is mistress , you know , when I'm gone , and she takes herself very seriously . 
'' Mistress ! A little thing like her ! Why , she can't be more than ten or eleven , '' murmured Billy . 
She was ten last month . 
But you'd think she was forty , the airs she gives herself , sometimes . 
'' Billy suppressed a smile . 
Billy was thinking that little Kate came naturally by at least one of her traits . 
Really , that child is impossible , sometimes , '' resumed Mrs. Hartwell , with a sigh . 
You know the absurd things she was always saying two or three years ago , when we came on to Cyril's wedding . 
'' Yes , I remember . 
'' Well , I thought she would get over it . 
She's worse , if anything and sometimes her insight , or intuition , or whatever you may call it , is positively uncanny . 
I never know what she's going to remark next , when I take her anywhere but it's safe to say , whatever it is , it'll be unexpected and usually embarrassing to somebody . 
And is that the baby ? '' broke off Mrs. Hartwell , as a cooing laugh and a woman's voice came from the next room . 
The nurse has just brought him in , I think , '' said Billy . 
Then I'll go right now and see him , '' rejoined Kate , rising to her feet and hurrying into the next room . 
Left alone , Billy lay back wearily in her reclining chair . 
She wondered why Kate always tired her so . 
She wished she had had on her blue kimono , then perhaps Kate would not have thought she looked so badly . 
Blue was always more becoming to her than Billy turned her head suddenly . 
From the next room had come Kate's clear cut , decisive voice . 
Oh , no , I don't think he looks a bit like his father . 
That little snubby nose was never the Henshaw nose . 
'' Billy drew in her breath sharply , and pulled herself half erect in her chair . 
From the next room came Kate's voice again , after a low murmur from the nurse . 
Oh , but he isn't , I tell you . 
He isn't one bit of a Henshaw baby ! The Henshaw babies are always pretty ones . 
They have more hair , and they look well , different . 
'' Billy gave a low cry , and struggled to her feet . 
Oh , no , '' spoke up Kate , in answer to another indistinct something from the nurse . 
I don't think he's near as pretty as the twins . 
Of course the twins are a good deal older , but they have such a bright look , and they did have , from the very first . 
I saw it in their tiniest baby pictures . 
But this baby '' This baby is mine , please , '' cut in a tremulous , but resolute voice and Mrs. Hartwell turned to confront Bertram , Jr . 
's mother , manifestly weak and trembling , but no less manifestly blazing eyed and determined . 
Why , Billy ! '' expostulated Mrs. Hartwell , as Billy stumbled forward and snatched the child into her arms . 
Perhaps he doesn't look like the Henshaw babies . 
Perhaps he isn't as pretty as the twins . 
Perhaps he hasn't much hair , and does have a snub nose . 
But the doctor only chuckled the more , and said You wait and see . 
'' If Billy's friends were worried before because of her lassitude and lack of ambition , they were almost as worried now over her amazing alertness and insistent activity . 
Even Aunt Hannah remonstrated with her at last . 
But , Billy , dear , '' she exclaimed , one would almost get the idea that you thought there wasn't a thing in the world but that baby ! '' Billy laughed . 
Well , do you know , sometimes I 'most think there isn't , '' she retorted unblushingly . 
I couldn't know how perfectly wonderful a baby is , especially such a baby as Bertram , Jr . 
Why , Aunt Hannah , that little thing knows a whole lot already . 
He's known me for weeks I know he has . 
And ages and ages ago he began to give me little smiles when he saw me . 
They were smiles real smiles ! Oh , yes , I know nurse said they weren't smiles at the first , '' admitted Billy , in answer to Aunt Hannah's doubting expression . 
I know nurse said it was only wind on his stomach . 
He looked at the ceiling fixedly . 
'' Well , probably he wanted to look at the ceiling , then , '' defended the young mother , promptly . 
By the time Bertram , Jr . 
, was three months old , Billy was unmistakably her old happy , merry self , strong and well . 
Affairs at the Strata once more were moving as by clockwork only this time it was a baby's hand that set the clock , and that wound it , too . 
Billy told her husband very earnestly that now they had entered upon a period of Enormous Responsibility . 
The Life , Character , and Destiny of a Human Soul was intrusted to their care , and they must be Wise , Faithful , and Efficient . 
They must be at once Proud and Humble at this their Great Opportunity . 
They must Observe , Learn , and Practice . 
First and foremost in their eyes must always be this wonderful Important Trust . 
Bertram laughed at first very heartily at Billy's instructions , which , he declared , were so bristling with capitals that he could fairly see them drop from her lips . 
And he told her that he wasn't really slighting her lips , only that they moved so fast he could not catch them . 
No , I know I don't , '' beamed Bertram , with cheerful unrepentance but I am , just the same , '' he finished triumphantly . 
And this time he contrived to find his wife's lips . 
Oh , Bertram , '' sighed Billy , despairingly . 
You're an old dear , of course , and one just can't be cross with you but you don't , you just don't realize your Immense Responsibility . 
'' Oh , yes , I do , '' maintained Bertram so seriously that even Billy herself almost believed him . 
Billy joined a Mothers' Club and entered a class in Child Training with an elaborate system of Charts , Rules , and Tests . 
Undeniably Billy , if not Bertram , was indeed realizing the Enormous Responsibility , and was keeping ever before her the Important Trust . 
In June Bertram took a cottage at the South Shore , and by the time the really hot weather arrived the family were well settled . 
But you'll be so lonesome , Uncle William , '' Billy demurred , in this great house all alone ! '' Oh , no , I sha'n't , '' rejoined Uncle William . 
I shall only be sleeping here , you know , '' he finished . 
with a slightly peculiar smile . 
William , to tell the truth , was quite anticipating that sleeping . 
William's nights had not been exactly restful since the baby came . 
His evenings , too , had not been the peaceful things they were wont to be . 
Some of Billy's Rules and Tests were strenuously objected to on the part of her small son , and the young man did not hesitate to show it . 
Billy said that it was good for the baby to cry , that it developed his lungs but William was very sure that it was not good for him . 
Very soon after Billy's arrival at the cottage , Aunt Hannah and Alice Greggory came down for a day's visit . 
Aunt Hannah had been away from Boston for several weeks , so it was some time since she had seen the baby . 
My , but hasn't he grown ! '' she exclaimed , picking the baby up and stooping to give him a snuggling kiss . 
The next instant she almost dropped the little fellow , so startling had been Billy's cry . 
No , no , wait , Aunt Hannah , please , '' Billy was entreating , hurrying to the little corner cupboard . 
In a moment she was back with a small bottle and a bit of antiseptic cotton . 
We always sterilize our lips now before we kiss him it's so much safer , you know . 
'' Aunt Hannah sat down limply , the baby still in her arms . 
No , you can't nor even his foot . 
He might get them in his mouth . 
Oh , did you read about that , too ? '' she cried . 
I thought it was so interesting , and I wondered if I could do it . 
You don't mean to say they actually have such things , '' she challenged . 
Well , I read about them in a magazine , '' asserted Billy , how you could have a germ proof room . 
They said it was very simple , too . 
Just pasteurize the air , you know , by heating it to one hundred and ten and one half degrees Fahrenheit for seventeen and one half minutes . 
I remember just the figures . 
'' Simple , indeed ! It sounds so , '' scoffed Aunt Hannah , with uplifted eyebrows . 
Oh , well , I couldn't do it , of course , '' admitted Billy , regretfully . 
Bertram never'd stand for that in the world . 
'' Oh , my grief and conscience locks , indeed ! '' almost groaned Aunt Hannah . 
Here , Alice , will you please take this child that is , if you have a germ proof certificate about you to show to his mother . 
I want to take off my bonnet and gloves . 
'' Take him ? Of course I'll take him , '' laughed Alice and right under his mother's nose , too , '' she added , with a playful grimace at Billy . 
Eh , babykins ? '' Babykins'' cooed his unqualified approval of this plan but his mother looked troubled . 
That's all right , Alice . 
You may play with him , '' she frowned doubtfully but you mustn't do it long , you know not over five minutes . 
'' Five minutes ! Well , I like that , when I've come all the way from Boston purposely to see him , '' pouted Alice . 
What's the matter now ? Time for his nap ? '' Oh , no , not for thirteen minutes , '' replied Billy , consulting the watch at her belt . 
But we never play with Baby more than five minutes at a time . 
My Scientific Care of Infants' says it isn't wise that with some babies it's positively dangerous , until after they're six months old . 
It makes them nervous , and forces their mind , you know , '' she explained anxiously . 
So of course we'd want to be careful . 
, isn't quite four , yet . 
'' Why , yes , of course , '' murmured Alice , politely , stopping a pat a cake before it was half baked . 
The infant , as if suspecting that he was being deprived of his lawful baby rights , began to fret and whimper . 
Poor itty sing , '' crooned Aunt Hannah , who , having divested herself of bonnet and gloves , came hurriedly forward with outstretched hands . 
Do they just 'buse 'em ? Come here to your old auntie , sweetems , and we'll go walkee . 
I saw a bow wow such a tunnin' ickey wickey bow wow on the steps when I came in . 
Come , we go see ickey wickey bow wow ? '' Aunt Hannah , please ! '' protested Billy , both hands upraised in horror . 
So that's why we're trying to be so careful with Baby . 
You didn't mind my speaking , I know , Aunt Hannah . 
'' Oh , no , of course not , Billy , '' retorted Aunt Hannah , a little tartly , and with a touch of sarcasm most unlike her gentle self . 
I'm sure I shouldn't wish to fill this infant's plastic mind with anything so appalling as trivial inaccuracies . 
Well , doesn't your system of scientific training allow him to be given such trivial absurdities as food and naps ? '' inquired the lady , mildly . 
Of course it does , Aunt Hannah , '' retorted Billy , laughing in spite of herself . 
And it's almost time now . 
There are only a few more minutes to wait . 
'' Few more minutes to wait , indeed ! '' scorned Aunt Hannah . 
My Daily Guide for Mothers' says that a time for everything and everything in its time , is the very A B C and whole alphabet of Right Training . 
He does everything by the clock , and to the minute , '' declared Billy , proudly . 
Aunt Hannah sniffed , obviously skeptical and rebellious . 
Aunt Hannah looks as if she'd like to bring down her clock that strikes half an hour ahead , '' she said mischievously but Aunt Hannah did not deign to answer this . 
How long do you rock him ? '' she demanded of Billy . 
I suppose I may do that , mayn't I ? '' Mercy , I don't rock him at all , Aunt Hannah , '' exclaimed Billy . 
Nor sing to him ? '' Certainly not . 
'' But you did before I went away . 
I remember that you did . 
'' Yes , I know I did , '' admitted Billy , and I had an awful time , too . 
Some evenings , every single one of us , even to Uncle William , had to try before we could get him off to sleep . 
But that was before I got my Efficiency of Mother and Child , or my Scientific Training , and , oh , lots of others . 
I've had an awful time changing but I've done it . 
I just put him in his little crib , or his carriage , and after a while he goes to sleep . 
Sometimes , now , he doesn't cry hardly any . 
I'm afraid , to day , though , he will , '' she worried . 
Yes , I'm afraid he will , '' almost screamed Aunt Hannah , in order to make herself heard above Bertram , Jr . 
, who , by this time , was voicing his opinion of matters and things in no uncertain manner . 
It was not , after all , so very long before peace and order reigned and , in due course , Bertram , Jr . 
, in his carriage , lay fast asleep . 
Then , while Aunt Hannah went to Billy's room for a short rest , Billy and Alice went out on to the wide veranda which faced the wonderful expanse of sky and sea . 
Now tell me of yourself , '' commanded Billy , almost at once . 
It's been ages since I've heard or seen a thing of you . 
'' There's nothing to tell . 
'' Nonsense ! But there must be , '' insisted Billy . 
You know it's months since I've seen anything of you , hardly . 
We feel quite neglected at the Annex , '' said Alice . 
But I don't go anywhere , '' defended Billy . 
'' Even to bring us the extra happiness ? '' smiled Alice . 
A quick change came to Billy's face . 
It doesn't seem as if anybody ought to be so happy . 
'' Oh , Billy , dear , '' demurred Alice , her eyes filling suddenly with tears . 
Well , I've got the Annex . 
I'm glad I've got that for the overflow , anyway , '' resumed Billy , trying to steady her voice . 
I've sent a whole lot of happiness up there mentally , if I haven't actually carried it so I'm sure you must have got it . 
Now tell me of yourself . 
'' There's nothing to tell , '' insisted Alice , as before . 
You're working as hard as ever ? '' Yes harder . 
'' New pupils ? '' Yes , and some concert engagements good ones , for next season . 
Yes I've heard of you already twice , lately , in that line , and very flatteringly , too . 
'' Have you ? Well , that's good . 
'' There was a moment's silence , then , abruptly , Billy changed the subject . 
I had a letter from Belle Calderwell , yesterday . 
'' She paused expectantly , but there was no comment . 
You don't seem interested , '' she frowned , after a minute . 
Pardon me , but I don't know the Lady , you see . 
Was it a good letter ? '' You know her brother . 
'' Alice's cheeks showed a deeper color . 
Did she say anything of him ? '' Yes . 
She said he was coming back to Boston next winter . 
'' Indeed ! '' Yes . 
She says that this time he declares he really is going to settle down to work , '' murmured Billy , demurely , with a sidelong glance at her companion . 
She says he's engaged to be married one of her friends over there . 
'' There was no reply . 
Alice appeared to be absorbed in watching a tiny white sail far out at sea . 
Then , with studied carelessness , she said Yes , and you know Mr. Arkwright , too . 
'' Yes ? Well , what of him ? '' Alice's voice was studiedly indifferent . 
Oh , there was quite a lot of him . 
Belle had just been to hear him sing , and then her brother had introduced him to her . 
She thinks he's perfectly wonderful , in every way , I should judge . 
In fact , she simply raved over him . 
It seems that while we've been hearing nothing from him all winter , he's been winning no end of laurels for himself in Paris and Berlin . 
'' Then he won't be coming home that is , to Boston at all this winter , probably , '' said Alice , with a cheerfulness that sounded just a little forced . 
But he is coming then . 
He's been engaged for six performances with the Boston Opera Company as a star tenor , mind you ! Isn't that splendid ? '' Indeed it is , '' murmured Alice . 
Belle writes that Hugh says he's improved wonderfully , and that even he can see that his singing is marvelous . 
He says Paris is wild over him but for my part , I wish he'd come home and stay here where he belongs , '' finished Billy , a bit petulantly . 
Why , why , Billy ! '' murmured her friend , a curiously startled look coming into her eyes . 
Well , I do , '' maintained Billy then , recklessly , she added I had such beautiful plans for him , once , Alice . 
Oh , if you only could have cared for him , you'd have made such a splendid couple ! '' A vivid scarlet flew to Alice's face . 
Nonsense ! '' she cried , getting quickly to her feet and bending over one of the flower boxes along the veranda railing . 
Mr. Arkwright never thought of marrying me and I'm not going to marry anybody but my music . 
I know that's what you say now but if '' She stopped abruptly . 
Around the turn of the veranda had appeared Aunt Hannah , wheeling Bertram , Jr . 
, still asleep in his carriage . 
I came out the other door , '' she explained softly . 
And it was so lovely I just had to go in and get the baby . 
I thought it would be so nice for him to finish his nap out here . 
'' Billy arose with a troubled frown . 
But , Aunt Hannah , he mustn't he can't stay out here . 
I'm sorry , but we'll have to take him back . 
'' Aunt Hannah's eyes grew mutinous . 
But I thought the outdoor air was just the thing for him . 
It's not the same out here , I'm sure . 
In fact I looked at the thermometer to see , just before I came out myself . 
So , Aunt Hannah , I'm afraid I'll have to take him back . 
'' But you used to have him sleep out of doors all the time , on that little balcony out of your room , '' argued Aunt Hannah , still plainly unconvinced . 
Yes , I know I did . 
I was following the other man's rules , then . 
So what she should do with him for those should have been sleeping ten minutes and a half , she did not know . 
CHAPTER XXIV A NIGHT OFF The Henshaw family did not return to the Strata until late in September . 
William came back from his fishing trip in August , and resumed his old habit of sleeping at the house and taking his meals at the club . 
To be sure , for a week he went back and forth between the city and the beach house but it happened to be a time when Bertram , Jr . 
, was cutting a tooth , and this so wore upon William's sympathy William still could not help insisting it might be a pin that he concluded peace lay only in flight . 
So he went back to the Strata . 
Bertram had stayed at the cottage all summer , painting industriously . 
Heretofore he had taken more of a vacation through the summer months , but this year there seemed to be nothing for him to do but to paint . 
All right , then , we'll just stay at the beach , and have a fine vacation together , '' he had answered her . 
As Bertram saw it , however , he could detect very little vacation'' to it . 
Billy had no time for anything but the baby . 
When she was not actually engaged in caring for it , she was studying how to care for it . 
Never had she been sweeter or dearer , and never had Bertram loved her half so well . 
She would return to her old interest in her husband , her music , her friends , and her own personal appearance . 
Meanwhile there was always , of course , for him , his painting . 
'' Billy was clearly both surprised and shocked . 
Why , Bertram , I can't you know I can't ! '' she exclaimed reprovingly . 
Bertram's heart sank but he kept a brave front . 
'' Billy's forehead puckered into an anxious frown . 
Something might happen to him , Bertram . 
I couldn't be happy a minute . 
'' But , dearest , aren't you ever going to leave him ? '' demanded the young husband , forlornly . 
Why , yes , of course , when it's reasonable and necessary . 
I went out to the Annex yesterday afternoon . 
I was gone almost two whole hours . 
'' Well , did anything happen ? '' N no but then I telephoned , you see , several times , so I knew everything was all right . 
Y yes , you could do that , couldn't you ? '' conceded Billy and , of course , I haven't been anywhere much , lately . 
'' Indeed I could , '' agreed Bertram , with a promptness that carefully hid his surprise at her literal acceptance of what he had proposed as a huge joke . 
Come , is it a go ? Shall I telephone to see if I can get seats ? '' You think Baby'll surely be all right ? '' I certainly do . 
'' And you'll telephone home between every act ? '' I will . 
'' Bertram's voice sounded almost as if he were repeating the marriage service . 
And we'll come straight home afterwards as fast as John and Peggy can bring us ? '' Certainly . 
'' Then I think I'll go , '' breathed Billy , tremulously , plainly showing what a momentous concession she thought she was making . 
When the time came , they were a little late in starting . 
Hurried as they were when they did start , Billy was conscious of Bertram's frowning disapproval of her frock . 
You don't like it , of course , dear , and I don't blame you , '' she smiled remorsefully . 
Oh , I like it that is , I did , when it was new , '' rejoined her husband , with apologetic frankness . 
But , dear , didn't you have anything else ? This looks almost well , mussy , you know . 
I am a fright , though , I'll acknowledge , so far as clothes go . 
I haven't had time to get a thing since Baby came . 
I must get something right away , I suppose . 
'' Yes , indeed , '' declared Bertram , with emphasis , hurrying his wife into the waiting automobile . 
Later , though , when well established in their seats , Billy's mind was plainly not with the players on the stage . 
Do you suppose Baby is all right ? '' she whispered , after a time . 
Sh h ! Of course he is , dear ! '' There was a brief silence , during which Billy peered at her program in the semi darkness . 
Then she nudged her husband's arm ecstatically . 
Bertram , I couldn't have chosen a better play if I'd tried . 
There are five acts ! I'd forgotten there were so many . 
That means you can telephone four times ! '' Yes , dear . 
'' Bertram's voice was sternly cheerful . 
You must be sure they tell you exactly how Baby is . 
'' All right , dear . 
Sh h ! Here's Romeo . 
She even clapped a little in spasmodic enthusiasm . 
Presently she peered at her program again . 
There wouldn't be time , I suppose , to telephone between the scenes , '' she hazarded wistfully . 
As if to prove that she was interested in the play , her next whisper , some time later , had to do with one of the characters on the stage . 
Who's that the nurse ? Mercy ! We wouldn't want her for Baby , would we ? '' In spite of himself Bertram chuckled this time . 
Billy , too , laughed at herself . 
Then , resolutely , she settled into her seat again . 
The curtain was not fairly down on the first act before Billy had laid an urgent hand on her husband's arm . 
Now , remember ask if he's waked up , or anything , '' she directed . 
And be sure to say I'll come right home if they need me . 
'' Bertram rose with alacrity . 
I'll be back right away . 
'' Oh , but I don't want you to hurry too much , '' she called after him , softly . 
I want you to take plenty of time to ask questions . 
'' All right , '' nodded Bertram , with a quizzical smile , as he turned away . 
Obediently Bertram asked all the question she could think of , then came back to his wife . 
I love this balcony scene , '' she sighed happily . 
Romeo , however , had not half finished his impassioned love making when Billy clutched her husband's arm almost fiercely . 
That woman in front heard you , I know she did ! '' Well , I shall , '' sighed Billy , mournfully , turning back to the stage . 
Good night , good night ! parting is such sweet sorrow , That I shall say good night , till it be morrow , ''' sighed Juliet passionately to her Romeo . 
Mercy ! I hope not , '' whispered Billy flippantly in Bertram's ear . 
I'm sure I don't want to stay here till to morrow ! I want to go home and see Baby . 
Deceived by her apparent tranquillity , Bertram turned as the curtain went down . 
Now , Billy , surely you don't think it'll be necessary to telephone so soon as this again , '' he ventured . 
He was back more promptly this time . 
K. , '' he smiled reassuringly into Billy's anxious eyes . 
Delia said she'd just been up , and the little chap was sound asleep . 
'' To the man's unbounded surprise , his wife grew actually white . 
Up ! Up ! '' she exclaimed . 
All right' ! Perhaps he was , then but he may not be , later . 
Delia should stay in the next room all the time , where she could hear the least thing . 
'' Yes , dear , she will , I'm sure , if you tell her to , '' soothed Bertram , quickly . 
It'll be all right next time . 
'' Billy shook her head . 
She was obviously near to crying . 
Without a word he went back to the telephone . 
The curtain was up when he slipped into his seat , very red of face . 
'' Couldn't get them ! But you'd just been talking with them ! '' That's exactly it , probably . 
I had just telephoned , so they weren't watching for the bell . 
Anyhow , I couldn't get them . 
'' Then you didn't get Delia at all ! '' Of course not . 
'' And Baby is still all alone ! '' But he's all right , dear . 
Delia's keeping watch of him . 
'' For a moment there was silence then , with clear decisiveness carne Billy's voice . 
Bertram , I am going home . 
'' Billy ! '' I am . 
'' Billy , for heaven's sake don't be a silly goose ! The play's half over already . 
We'll soon be going , anyway . 
'' Billy's lips came together in a thin little determined line . 
Bertram , I am going home now , please , '' she said . 
You needn't come with me I can go alone . 
At home everything was found to be absolutely as it should be . 
, was peacefully sleeping , and Delia , who had come up from downstairs , was sewing in the next room . 
There , you see , '' observed Bertram , a little sourly . 
Billy drew a long , contented sigh . 
Yes , I see everything is all right . 
But that's exactly what I wanted to do , Bertram , you know to see for myself , '' she finished happily . 
And Bertram , looking at her rapt face as she hovered over the baby's crib , called himself a brute and a beast to mind anything that could make Billy look like that . 
CHAPTER XXV SHOULD AULD ACQUAINTANCE BE FORGOT'' Bertram did not ask Billy very soon again to go to the theater . 
For some days , indeed , he did not ask her to do anything . 
Then , one evening , he did beg for some music . 
Billy , you haven't played to me or sung to me since I could remember , '' he complained . 
'' Billy gave a merry laugh and wriggled her fingers experimentally . 
Mercy , Bertram ! I don't believe I could play a note . 
You know I'm all out of practice . 
'' But why don't you practice ? '' Why , Bertram , I can't . 
In the first place I don't seem to have any time except when Baby's asleep and I can't play then I'd wake him up . 
'' Bertram sighed irritably , rose to his feet , and began to walk up and down the room . 
He came to a pause at last , his eyes bent a trifle disapprovingly on his wife . 
Billy , dear , don't you wear anything but those wrapper things nowadays ? '' he asked plaintively . 
But this time a troubled frown followed the laugh . 
Billy , after a moment's silence , began to talk animatedly . 
Baby had done a wonderfully cunning thing that morning , and Billy had not had a chance yet to tell Bertram . 
Baby was growing more and more cunning anyway , these days , and there were several things she believed she had not told him so she told them now . 
Bertram listened politely , interestedly . 
He told himself that he was interested , too . 
Billy , '' he cried suddenly , with his old boyish eagerness , there's a glorious moon . 
I'd love to , though , if I could , '' she added hastily , as she saw disappointment cloud her husband's face . 
But I told Delia she might go out . 
It isn't her regular evening , of course , but I told her I didn't mind staying with Baby a bit . 
So I'll have to go right up now . 
But , dear , you go and take your walk . 
After a disconsolate five minutes of solitude , Bertram got his hat and coat and went out for his walk but he told himself he did not expect to enjoy it . 
Bertram Henshaw knew that the old rebellious jealousy of the summer had him fast in its grip . 
He was heartily ashamed of himself , but he could not help it . 
He wanted Billy , and he wanted her then . 
He wanted to talk to her . 
The sweetest melody in the world , if dinned into one's ears day and night , became something to be fled from . 
And Billy ought to talk of something else , too ! Bertram , Jr . 
But Billy seemed to have forgotten this . 
If it had not been so serious , it would have been really funny the way all roads led straight to one goal . 
He never , however , found one . 
But it was not funny it was serious . 
He must he patient , and wait . 
He was sure she did . 
By and by this obsession of motherhood , which had her so fast in its grasp , would relax . 
She would remember that her husband had rights as well as her child . 
Once again she would give him the companionship , love , and sympathetic interest so dear to him . 
Meanwhile there was his work . 
He must bury himself in that . 
And fortunate , indeed , he was , he told himself , that he had something so absorbing . 
In the old days he had liked this Bob Seaver well . 
Seaver was an artist like himself , and was good company always . 
But Seaver and his crowd were a little too Bohemian for William's taste and after Billy came , she , too , had objected to what she called that horrid Seaver man . 
To night , however , Seaver's genial smile and hearty friendliness were like a sudden burst of sunshine on a rainy day and Bertram detested rainy days . 
He was feeling now , too , as if he had just had a whole week of them . 
Yes , I am something of a stranger here , '' nodded Seaver . 
But I tell you what , little old Boston looks mighty good to me , all the same . 
Come on ! You're just the fellow we want . 
I'm on my way now to the old stamping ground . 
Come right about face , old chap , and come with me ! '' Bertram shook his head . 
Sorry but I guess I can't , to night , '' he sighed . 
Oh , rats ! Yes , you can , too . 
Come on ! Lots of the old crowd will be there Griggs , Beebe , Jack Jenkins , and Tully . 
We need you to complete the show . 
'' Jack Jenkins ? Is he here ? '' A new eagerness had come into Bertram's voice . 
Sure ! He came on from New York last night . 
Great boy , Jenkins ! Just back from Paris fairly covered with medals , you know . 
'' Yes , so I hear . 
I haven't seen him for four years . 
'' Better come to night then . 
'' No o , '' began Bertram , with obvious reluctance . 
It's already nine o'clock , and '' Nine o'clock ! '' cut in Seaver , with a broad grin . 
Since when has your limit been nine o'clock ? I've seen the time when you didn't mind nine o'clock in the morning , Bertie ! What's got Oh , I remember . 
I met another friend of yours in Berlin chap named Arkwright and say , he's some singer , you bet ! You're going to hear of him one of these days . 
Well , he told me all about how you'd settled down now son and heir , fireside bliss , pretty wife , and all the fixings . 
But , I say , Bertie , doesn't she let you out any ? '' Nonsense , Seaver ! '' flared Bertram in annoyed wrath . 
Well , then , why don't you come to night ? If you want to see Jenkins you'll have to he's going back to New York to morrow . 
'' For only a brief minute longer did Bertram hesitate then he turned squarely about with an air of finality . 
Is he ? Well , then , perhaps I will , '' he said . 
I'd hate to miss Jenkins entirely . 
'' Good ! '' exclaimed his companion , as they fell into step . 
Have a cigar ? '' Thanks . 
Don't mind if I do . 
'' If Bertram's chin was a little higher and his step a little more decided than usual , it was all merely by way of accompaniment to his thoughts . 
Certainly it was right that he should go , and it was sensible . 
Indeed , it was really almost imperative due to Billy , as it were after that disagreeable taunt of Seaver's . 
Besides , he himself was no undeveloped boy now . 
He was a man , presumedly able to take care of himself . 
He came back with an angry , lugubrious face and a broken arm . 
Oh , Bertram ! And your right one , too the same one you broke before ! '' mourned Billy , tearfully . 
Of course , '' retorted Bertram , trying in vain to give an air of jauntiness to his reply . 
Didn't want to be too changeable , you know ! '' But how did you do it , dear ? '' Fell into a silly little hole covered with underbrush . 
We'll just be thankful 'twas no worse . 
You can't paint for a while , of course but we won't mind that . 
Well , I like your enthusiasm , sir , '' she frowned . 
Bertram laughed , and gave his wife an affectionate kiss . 
Indeed I do appreciate my blessings , dear when those blessings are such treasures as you and Baby , but '' Only his doleful eyes fixed on his injured arm finished his sentence . 
I know , dear , of course , and I understand , '' murmured Billy , all tenderness at once . 
They were not easy for Bertram those following days . 
Once again he was obliged to accept the little intimate personal services that he so disliked . 
Once again he could do nothing but read , or wander disconsolately into his studio and gaze at his half finished Face of a Girl . 
He never could do anything with his left hand , he told himself dejectedly . 
Billy was always devotion itself to him when she was not attending to the baby he had no fault to find with Billy . 
And the baby was delightful he could find no fault with the baby . 
'' From the studio , generally , Bertram went out on to the street . 
Sometimes he dropped into a fellow artist's studio . 
Sometimes he strolled into a club or caf e' where he knew he would be likely to find some friend who would help him while away a tiresome hour . 
Particularly was this the case when , after the splints were removed , Bertram found , as the days passed , that his arm was not improving as it should improve . 
This not only disappointed and annoyed him , but worried him . 
He remembered sundry disquieting warnings given by the physician at the time of the former break warnings concerning the probable seriousness of a repetition of the injury . 
To Billy , of course , Bertram said nothing of all this but just before Christmas he went to see a noted specialist . 
An hour later , almost in front of the learned surgeon's door , Bertram met Bob Seaver . 
Great Scott , Bertie , what's up ? '' ejaculated Seaver . 
You look as if you'd seen a ghost . 
'' I have , '' answered Bertram , with grim bitterness . 
I've seen the ghost of of every Face of a Girl' I ever painted . 
Suppose we go down to Trentini's and see who's there . 
'' All right , '' agreed Bertram , dully . 
'' Bertram was not thinking of Seaver , Trentini's , or whom he might find there . 
Bertram was thinking of certain words he had heard less than half an hour ago . 
He was wondering , too , if ever again he could think of anything but those words . 
The truth ? '' the great surgeon had said . 
We'll do the best we can , of course but well , you asked for the truth , you remember so I had to give it to you . 
He had placed himself under the man's care , and there was nothing to do but to take the prescribed treatment and await results as patiently as he could . 
Meanwhile there was no need to worry Billy , or William , or anybody else with the matter . 
Poor dear , is the arm feeling horrid to day ? '' she asked one morning , when the gloom on her husband's face was deeper than usual . 
Bertram frowned and did not answer directly . 
Lots of good I am these days ! '' he exclaimed , his moody eyes on the armful of many shaped , many sized packages she carried . 
What are those for the tree ? '' Yes and it's going to be so pretty , Bertram , '' exulted Billy . 
And , do you know , Baby positively acts as if he suspected things little as he is , '' she went on eagerly . 
He's as nervous as a witch . 
I can't keep him still a minute ! '' How about his mother ? '' hinted Bertram , with a faint smile . 
Well , I'm afraid she isn't exactly calm herself , '' she confessed , as she hurried out of the room with her parcels . 
Bertram looked after her longingly , despondently . 
I wonder what she'd say if she knew , '' he muttered . 
But she sha'n't know till she just has to , '' he vowed suddenly , under his breath , striding into the hall for his hat and coat . 
Never had the Strata known such a Christmas as this was planned to be . 
Cyril , Marie , and the twins were to be there , also Kate , her husband and three children , Paul , Egbert , and little Kate , from the West . 
On Christmas Day there was to be a big family dinner , with Aunt Hannah down from the Annex . 
Then , in concession to the extreme youth of the young host and his twin cousins , there was to be an afternoon tree . 
The shades were to be drawn and the candles lighted , however , so that there might be no loss of effect . 
From garret to basement the Strata was aflame with holly , and aglitter with tinsel . 
Nowhere did there seem to be a spot that did not have its bit of tissue paper or its trail of red ribbon . 
No wonder , indeed , that even Baby scented excitement , and that Baby's mother was not exactly calm . 
No wonder , too , that Bertram , with his helpless right arm , and his heavy heart , felt peculiarly forlorn and out of it . 
'' No wonder , also , that he took himself literally out of it with growing frequency . 
Mr. and Mrs. Hartwell and little Kate were to stay at the Strata . 
The boys , Paul and Egbert , were to go to Cyril's . 
Promptly at the appointed time , two days before Christmas , they arrived . 
It was a great success , the whole affair . 
Everybody seemed pleased and happy that is , everybody but Bertram and he very plainly tried to seem pleased and happy . 
found only the extraordinarily small number of four details to change in the arrangements . 
Baby obligingly let his teeth getting go , for the occasion , and he and the twins , Franz and Felix , were the admiration and delight of all . 
Little Kate , to be sure , was a trifle disconcerting once or twice , but everybody was too absorbed to pay much attention to her . 
Billy did , however , remember her opening remarks . 
Well , little Kate , do you remember me ? '' Billy had greeted her pleasantly . 
Oh , yes , '' little Kate had answered , with a winning smile . 
You're my Aunt Billy what married my Uncle Bertram instead of Uncle William as you said you would first . 
'' Everybody laughed , and Billy colored , of course but little Kate went on eagerly And I've been wanting just awfully to see you , '' she announced . 
Have you ? I'm glad , I'm sure . 
I feel highly flattered , '' smiled Billy . 
You see , I wanted to ask you something . 
I told you You see , '' she broke off , turning to Billy despairingly . 
She's been pestering me with questions like that ever since she knew she was coming . 
She never has forgotten the way you changed from one uncle to the other . 
You may remember it made a great impression on her at the time . 
'' Yes , I I remember , '' stammered Billy , trying to laugh off her embarrassment . 
But you haven't told me yet whether you did wish you'd married Uncle William , or Uncle Cyril , '' interposed little Kate , persistently . 
There , look , my dear , here's your new cousin , little Bertram ! '' she exclaimed . 
Don't you want to see him ? '' Little Kate turned dutifully . 
Yes'm , Aunt Billy , but I'd rather see the twins . 
Mother says they're real pretty and cunning . 
'' Er y yes , they are , '' murmured Billy , on whom the emphasis of the they're'' had not been lost . 
Naturally , as may be supposed , therefore , Billy had not forgotten little Kate's opening remarks . 
Immediately after Christmas Mr. Hartwell and the boys went back to their Western home , leaving Mrs. Hartwell and her daughter to make a round of visits to friends in the East . 
For almost a week after Christmas they remained at the Strata and it was on the last day of their stay that little Kate asked the question that proved so momentous in results . 
Billy , almost unconsciously , had avoided t e te a ! t e tes with her small guest . 
But to day they were alone together . 
'' Billy flushed scarlet , then grew very white . 
At that moment Mrs. Hartwell came into the room . 
There , she hasn't forgotten , and I knew she hadn't , mother ! I asked her just now , and she said she hadn't . 
'' Hadn't what ? '' questioned Mrs. Hartwell , looking a little apprehensively at her sister in law's white face and angry eyes . 
Hadn't forgotten that she was Uncle Bertram's wife . 
Kate , I've a mind to take you home on the next train , '' she said to her daughter . 
Run away , now , down stairs . 
Your Aunt Billy and I want to talk . 
Come , come , hurry ! I mean what I say , '' she added warningly , as she saw unmistakable signs of rebellion on the small young face . 
Yes , I suppose I'll have to say it now , as long as that child has put her finger in the pie . 
But I hadn't intended to speak , no matter what I saw . 
I promised myself I wouldn't , before I came . 
And I haven't except to William , and Cyril , and Aunt Hannah but I suppose somewhere little Kate got hold of it . 
It's simply this , Billy . 
It seems to me it's high time you began to realize that you're Bertram's wife as well as the baby's mother . 
'' That , I am I don't think I quite understand , '' said Billy , unsteadily . 
No , I suppose you don't , '' sighed Kate , though where your eyes are , I don't see or , rather , I do see they're on the baby , always . 
It's all very well and lovely , Billy , to be a devoted mother , and you certainly are that . 
I'll say that much for you , and I'll admit I never thought you would be . 
But can't you see what you're doing to Bertram ? '' Doing to Bertram ! by being a devoted mother to his son ! '' Yes , doing to Bertram . 
Can't you see what a change there is in the boy ? He doesn't act like himself at all . 
He's restless and gloomy and entirely out of sorts . 
'' Yes , I know but that's his arm , '' pleaded Billy . 
Poor boy he's so tired of it ! '' Kate shook her head decisively . 
It's more than his arm , Billy . 
You'd see it yourself if you weren't blinded by your absorption in that baby . 
'' But , Kate , he can't paint now , you know , so of course he doesn't need to stay so closely at home , '' defended Billy . 
He goes out to find distraction from himself . 
'' Yes , distraction , indeed , '' sniffed Kate . 
His tastes and his temperament are altogether too Bohemian , and '' Billy interrupted with a peremptorily upraised hand . 
'' Yes well , I'm speaking of my brother , too , whom I know very well , '' shrugged Kate . 
All is , you may remember sometime that I warned you that's all . 
At least you'll know whom he's with , then . 
Cyril says he saw him last week with Bob Seaver . 
'' With Bob Seaver ? '' faltered Billy , changing color . 
I see you remember him , '' smiled Kate , not quite agreeably . 
Perhaps now you'll take some stock in what I've said , and remember it . 
'' I'll remember it , certainly , '' returned Billy , a little proudly . 
You've said a good many things to me , in the past , Mrs. Hartwell , and I've remembered them all every one . 
'' It was Kate's turn to flush , and she did it . 
And I presume very likely sometimes there hasn't been much foundation for what I've said . 
I think this time , however , you'll find there is , '' she finished , with an air of hurt dignity . 
Billy made no reply , perhaps because Delia , at that moment , brought in the baby . 
Mrs. Hartwell and little Kate left the Strata the next morning . 
Until then Billy contrived to keep , before them , a countenance serene , and a manner free from unrest . 
Even when , after dinner that evening , Bertram put on his hat and coat and went out , Billy refused to meet her sister in law's meaning gaze . 
But in the morning , after they had left the house , Billy did not attempt to deceive herself . 
Determinedly , then , she set herself to going over in her mind the past months since the baby came and she was appalled at what she found . 
She remembered Bertram's face when he had seen her , and what he had said when she begged him to come home . 
She remembered , too , what the family had said afterward . 
After that night , at all events , he had had little to do with Bob Seaver . 
And now Seaver was back again , it seemed and with Bertram . 
They had been seen together . 
Kate had said that she was so absorbed in Baby that her husband received no attention at all . 
Billy did not believe this was true but if it were true , she could at least rectify that mistake . 
If it were attention that he wanted he should want no more . 
'' If she recollected rightly , there was a chapter that covered the very claim Kate had been making . 
Billy had not thought of the book for months , but she went at once to get it now . 
There might be , after all , something in it that would help her . 
The Coming of the First Baby . 
'' Billy found the chapter without difficulty and settled herself to read , her countenance alight with interest . 
In a surprisingly short time , however , a new expression came to her face and at last a little gasp of dismay fell from her lips . 
She looked up then , with a startled gaze . 
The young mother , wrapped up in the delights and duties of motherhood , utterly forgets that she has a husband . 
She lives and moves and has her being in the nursery . 
She thinks baby , talks baby , knows only baby . 
She refuses to dress up , because it is easier to take care of baby in a frowzy wrapper . 
She will not go out with her husband for fear something might happen to the baby . 
She gives up her music because baby won't let her practice . 
In vain her husband tries to interest her in his own affairs . 
She has neither eyes nor ears for him , only for baby . 
Now no man enjoys having his nose put out of joint , even by his own child . 
It is an admirable thing , certainly , for a woman to be a devoted mother but maternal affection can be carried too far . 
Husbands have some rights as well as offspring and the wife who neglects her husband for her babies does so at her peril . 
Then is the time when the new little life that is so precious , and that should have bound the two more closely together , becomes the wedge that drives them apart . 
'' Billy did not read any more . 
With a little sobbing cry she flung the book back into her desk , and began to pull off her wrapper . 
Already she saw herself a Monster , a Wicked Destroyer of Domestic Bliss with her thoughtless absorption in Baby , until he had become that Awful Thing a Wedge . 
And Bertram poor Bertram , with his broken arm ! She had not played to him , nor sung to him , nor gone out with him . 
And when had they had one of their good long talks about Bertram's work and plans ? But it should all be changed now . 
She would play , and sing , and go out with him . 
She would dress up , too . 
He should see no more wrappers . 
She would ask about his work , and seem interested . 
Lately he had said nothing about these . 
He had seemed discouraged and no wonder , with his broken arm ! But she would change all that . 
He should see ! And forthwith Billy hurried to her closet to pick out her prettiest house frock . 
Long before dinner Billy was ready , waiting in the drawing room . 
She had on a pretty little blue silk gown that she knew Bertram liked , and she watched very anxiously for Bertram to come up the steps . 
She remembered now , with a pang , that he had long since given up his peculiar ring but she meant to meet him at the door just the same . 
Bertram , however , did not come . 
At a quarter before six he telephoned that he had met some friends , and would dine at the club . 
My , my , how pretty we are ! '' exclaimed Uncle William , when they went down to dinner together . 
New frock ? '' Why , no , Uncle William , '' laughed Billy , a little tremulously . 
You've seen it dozens of times ! '' Have I ? '' murmured the man . 
I don't seem to remember it . 
Too bad Bertram isn't here to see you . 
Somehow , you look unusually pretty to night . 
'' And Billy's heart ached anew . 
Billy spent the evening practicing softly , to be sure , so as not to wake Baby but practicing . 
As the days passed Billy discovered that it was much easier to say she would change things'' than it was really to change them . 
She changed herself , it is true her clothes , her habits , her words , and her thoughts but it was more difficult to change Bertram . 
In the first place , he was there so little . 
She was dismayed when she saw how very little , indeed , he was at home and she did not like to ask him outright to stay . 
That was not in accordance with her plans . 
Besides , the Talk to Young Wives'' said that indirect influence was much to be preferred , always , to direct persuasion which last , indeed , usually failed to produce results . 
, and even hinted shamelessly once or twice that she would like to go to the theater but all to little avail . 
True , Bertram brightened up , for a minute , when he came home and found her in a new or a favorite dress , and he told her how pretty she looked . 
He appeared to like to have her play to him , too , even declaring once or twice that it was quite like old times , yes , it was . 
But he never noticed her hints about the theater , and he did not seem to like to talk about his work , even a little bit . 
Billy laid this last fact to his injured arm . 
She decided that he had become blue and discouraged , and that he needed cheering up , especially about his work so she determinedly and systematically set herself to doing it . 
She talked of the fine work he had done , and of the still finer work he would yet do , when his arm was well . 
In none of this , however , did Bertram appear in the least interested . 
For , according to the Talk to Young Wives , '' she was doing exactly what the ideal , sympathetic , interested in her husband's work wife should do . 
When February came , bringing with it no change for the better , Billy was thoroughly frightened . 
Bertram's arm plainly was not improving . 
He was more gloomy and restless than ever . 
He seemed not to want to stay at home at all and Billy knew now for a certainty that he was spending more and more time with Bob Seaver and the boys . 
'' Poor Billy ! Nowhere could she look these days and see happiness . 
Even the adored baby seemed , at times , almost to give an added pang . 
CHAPTER XXVIII CONSPIRATORS Early in February came Arkwright's appearance at the Boston Opera House the first since he had sung there as a student a few years before . 
He was an immediate and an unquestioned success . 
His portrait adorned the front page of almost every Boston newspaper the next morning , and captious critics vied with each other to do him honor . 
His full history , from boyhood up , was featured , with special emphasis on his recent triumphs in New York and foreign capitals . 
He was interviewed as to his opinion on everything from vegetarianism to woman's suffrage and his preferences as to pies and pastimes were given headline prominence . 
There was no doubt of it . 
Mr. M. J. Arkwright was a star . 
Thank you ! I hoped you'd introduce that subject though , for that matter , if you hadn't , I should . 
Yes , there is and I'm looking to you , old man , to get them out of it . 
'' I ? '' Arkwright sat erect now . 
'' What do you mean ? '' In a way , the expected has happened though I know now that I didn't really expect it to happen , in spite of my prophecies . 
You may remember I was always skeptical on the subject of Bertram's settling down to a domestic hearthstone . 
I insisted 'twould be the turn of a girl's head and the curve of her cheek that he wanted to paint . 
'' Arkwright looked up with a quick frown . 
You don't mean that Henshaw has been cad enough to find another '' Calderwell threw up his hand . 
No , no , not that ! We haven't that to deal with yet , thank goodness ! There's no woman in it . 
And , really , when you come right down to it , if ever a fellow had an excuse to seek diversion , Bertram Henshaw has poor chap ! It's just this . 
Bertram broke his arm again last October . 
'' Yes , so I hear , and I thought he was looking badly . 
'Twas improperly set in the first place , and it's not doing well now . 
In fact , I'm told on pretty good authority that the doctor says he probably will never use it again . 
'' Oh , by George ! Calderwell ! '' Yes . 
Tough , isn't it ? 'Specially when you think of his work , and know as I happen to that he's particularly dependent on his right hand for everything . 
He doesn't tell this generally , and I understand Billy and the family know nothing of it how hopeless the case is , I mean . 
'' Bob Seaver ? Yes , I know him . 
'' Arkwright's lips snapped together crisply . 
He said he knew you . 
That's why I'm counting on your help . 
'' What do you mean ? '' I mean I want you to get Henshaw away from him , and keep him away . 
'' Arkwright's face darkened with an angry flush . 
But you can sing a song , man , which will promptly give you a through ticket to their innermost sacred circle . 
In fact , to my certain knowledge , Seaver is already planning a jamboree with you at the right hand of the toastmaster . 
Once in , stay in long enough to get Henshaw out . 
'' But , good heavens , Calderwell , it's impossible ! What can I do ? '' demanded Arkwright , savagely . 
'' No , but you can get him out of it some way . 
You can find a way for Billy's sake . 
'' There was no answer , and , after a moment , Calderwell went on more quietly . 
I haven't seen Billy but two or three times since I came back to Boston but I don't need to , to know that she's breaking her heart over something . 
And of course that something is Bertram . 
'' There was still no answer . 
Arkwright got up suddenly , and walked to the window . 
You see , I'm helpless , '' resumed Calderwell . 
I don't paint pictures , nor sing songs , nor write stories , nor dance jigs for a living and you have to do one or another to be in with that set . 
And it's got to be a Johnny on the spot with Bertram . 
All is , something will have to be done to get him out of the state of mind and body he's in now , or '' Arkwright wheeled sharply . 
When did you say this jamboree was going to be ? '' he demanded . 
Next week , some time . 
The date is not settled . 
They were going to consult you . 
'' Hm m , '' commented Arkwright . 
And , though his next remark was a complete change of subject , Calderwell gave a contented sigh . 
He had known that he was undertaking a most difficult and delicate task , and he soon began to fear that it was an impossible one , as well . 
With a dogged persistence , however , he adhered to his purpose , ever on the alert to be more watchful , more tactful , more efficient in emergencies . 
Disagreeable as was the task , in a way , in another way it was a great pleasure to him . 
He was glad of the opportunity to do anything for Billy and then , too , he was glad of something absorbing enough to take his mind off his own affairs . 
He told himself , sometimes , that this helping another man to fight his tiger skin was assisting himself to fight his own . 
Arkwright was trying very hard not to think of Alice Greggory these days . 
Since then he had seen but little of her , partly because he did not wish to see her , and partly because his time was so fully occupied . 
To this extent he met with no difficulty , for he found that M. J. Arkwright , the new star in the operatic firmament , was obviously a welcome comrade . 
Beyond this it was not so easy . 
Arkwright wondered , indeed , sometimes , if he were making any progress at all . 
He walked with Bertram , he talked with Bertram , unobtrusively he contrived to be near Bertram almost always , when they were together with the boys . 
'' Gradually he won from him the story of what the surgeon had said to him , and of how black the future looked in consequence . 
In telling the story he was careful to draw no moral for his listener , and to preach no sermon . 
He told the tale , too , with all possible whimsical lightness of touch , and immediately at its conclusion he changed the subject . 
But that he had not failed utterly in his design was evidenced a few days later when Bertram grimly declared that he guessed his tiger skin was a lively beast , all right . 
The first time Arkwright went home with Bertram , his presence was almost a necessity . 
Bertram was not quite himself that night . 
She had plainly been watching and waiting . 
Arkwright never forgot the look on her face as her eyes met his . 
Even when he bade her good night a little later , only her eyes said thank you . 
'' Her lips were dumb . 
Arkwright often went home with Bertram after that . 
Not that it was always necessary far from it . 
Some time , indeed , elapsed before he had quite the same excuse again for his presence . 
Bertram liked chess , and was a fine player . 
Since breaking his arm he had turned to games with the feverish eagerness of one who looks for something absorbing to fill an unrestful mind . 
It was Seaver's skill in chess that had at first attracted Bertram to the man long ago but Bertram could beat him easily too easily for much pleasure in it now . 
So they did not play chess often these days . 
As it happened , however , Bertram learned one day that Arkwright could play chess and play well , too , as he discovered after their first game together . 
In spite of her joy at the chessmen's efficacy in keeping Bertram at home , however , she was almost jealous of them . 
Mr. Arkwright , couldn't you show me how to play , sometime ? '' she said wistfully , one evening , when the momentary absence of Bertram had left the two alone together . 
I used to watch Bertram and Marie play years ago but I never knew how to play myself . 
Will you teach me ? '' I should be glad to , '' smiled Arkwright . 
Then will you come , maybe , sometimes when Bertram is at the doctor's ? He goes every Tuesday and Friday at three o'clock for treatment . 
'' The last words were spoken very low , and were accompanied by a painful blush . 
It was the first time Billy had ever hinted to Arkwright , in words , that she understood what he was trying to do . 
I'll come next Tuesday , '' promised Arkwright , with a cheerfully unobservant air . 
Then Bertram came in , bringing the book of Chess Problems , for which he had gone up stairs . 
But at the end of the hour she was almost ready to give up in despair . 
If there weren't so many kinds , and if they didn't all insist on doing something different , it wouldn't be so bad , '' she sighed . 
'' Whenever possible , after that , Arkwright came on Tuesdays and Fridays , and , in spite of her doubts , Billy did very soon begin to remember . 
'' Spurred by her great desire to play with Bertram and surprise him , Billy spared no pains to learn well her lessons . 
Not at present , therefore , was she willing Bertram should know what she was attempting to do . 
Billy had not yet learned what the great surgeon had said to Bertram . 
She knew only that his arm was no better , and that he never voluntarily spoke of his painting . 
Over her now seemed to be hanging a vague horror . 
But what it was she could not fathom . 
She realized that Arkwright was trying to help , and her gratitude , though silent , knew no bounds . 
Not even to Aunt Hannah or Uncle William could she speak of this thing that was troubling her . 
That they , too , understood , in a measure , she realized . 
But still she said no word . 
And she did not like it . 
She was not pleased that he was there . 
She was less pleased that he blushed for being there . 
It so happened that Alice found him there again several times . 
If , the first time that Alice Greggory found Arkwright opposite Billy at the chess table , she was surprised and displeased , the second and third times she was much more so . 
was this idol of hers to show feet of clay , after all ? She could not believe it . 
And yet Sick at heart , but imbued with the determination of a righteous cause , Alice Greggory resolved , for Billy's sake , to watch and wait . 
If necessary she should speak to some one though to whom she did not know . 
Billy's happiness should not be put in jeopardy if she could help it . 
Indeed , no ! As the weeks passed , Alice came to be more and more uneasy , distressed , and grieved . 
Of Billy she could believe no evil but of Arkwright she was beginning to think she could believe everything that was dishonorable and despicable . 
And to believe that of the man she still loved no wonder that Alice did not look nor act like herself these days . 
At the first she had told herself confidently that she would speak to somebody . 
'' But , as time passed , she saw the impracticability of that idea . 
At least that seemed to be the r o le which she was expected to play . 
It was when Alice had reached this unhappy frame of mind that Arkwright himself unexpectedly opened the door for her . 
The two were alone together in Bertram Henshaw's den . 
Alice had called to find Billy and Arkwright deep in their usual game of chess . 
Then a matter of domestic affairs had taken Billy from the room . 
I'm afraid I'll have to be gone ten minutes , or more , '' she had said , as she rose from the table reluctantly . 
But you might be showing Alice the moves , Mr. Arkwright , '' she had added , with a laugh , as she disappeared . 
Shall I teach you the moves ? '' he had smiled , when they were alone together . 
At all events , I seem to have been making some moves lately that have not suited you , judging by your actions . 
Have I offended you in any way , Alice ? '' The girl turned with a quick lifting of her head . 
Alice knew that if ever she were to speak , it must be now . 
Never again could she hope for such an opportunity as this . 
Suddenly throwing circumspect caution quite aside , she determined that she would speak . 
Springing to her feet she crossed the room and seated herself in Billy's chair at the chess table . 
Me ! Offend me ! '' she exclaimed , in a low voice . 
As if I were the one you were offending ! '' Why , Alice ! '' murmured the man , in obvious stupefaction . 
Alice raised her hand , palm outward . 
Now don't , please don't pretend you don't know , '' she begged , almost piteously . 
Please don't add that to all the rest . 
At first I couldn't believe it , '' she plunged on , plainly hurrying against Billy's return . 
After all you'd told me of how you meant to fight it your tiger skin . 
And I thought it merely happened that you were here alone with her those days I came . 
Then , when I found out they were always the days Mr. Henshaw was away at the doctor's , I had to believe . 
'' She stopped for breath . 
Arkwright , who , up to this moment had shown that he was completely mystified as to what she was talking about , suddenly flushed a painful red . 
He was obviously about to speak , but she prevented him with a quick gesture . 
There's a little more I've got to say , please . 
You pretend to be his friend . 
You go with him everywhere . 
It's just as if you were helping to to pull him down . 
You're one with the whole bunch . 
A deep pain looked from his eyes . 
He was still very pale , and his mouth had settled into sad lines . 
I think , perhaps , it may be just as well if I tell you what I am doing or , rather , trying to do , '' he said quietly . 
'' Alice gave a sobbing cry . 
Horror , shame , and relief struggled for mastery in her countenance . 
Oh , but I didn't know , I didn't know , '' she moaned , twisting her hands nervously . 
He glanced at her tenderly , mournfully . 
Yes , '' he said , after a minute , in a low voice . 
I can see how it did look and so I'm going to tell you now something I had meant never to tell you . 
There really couldn't have been anything in that , you see , for I found out long ago that it was gone whatever love there had been for Billy . 
'' But your tiger skin ! '' Oh , yes , I thought it was alive , '' smiled Arkwright , sadly , when I asked you to help me fight it . 
But one day , very suddenly , I discovered that it was nothing but a dead skin of dreams and memories . 
But I made another discovery , too . 
I found that just beyond lay another one , and that was very much alive . 
'' Another one ? '' Alice turned to him in wonder . 
But you never asked me to help you fight that one ! '' He shook his head . 
No I couldn't , you see . 
You couldn't have helped me . 
You'd only have hindered me . 
'' Hindered you ? '' Yes . 
You see , it was my love for you , that I was fighting then . 
'' Alice gave a low cry and flushed vividly but Arkwright hurried on , his eyes turned away . 
I'm not asking for anything . 
I heard some time ago of your engagement to Calderwell . 
I've tried many times to say the proper , expected pretty speeches , but I couldn't . 
I will now , though . 
You have all my tenderest best wishes for your happiness dear . 
If long ago I hadn't been such a blind fool as not to know my own heart '' But but there's some mistake , '' interposed Alice , palpitatingly , with hanging head . 
I I'm not engaged to Mr. Calderwell . 
'' Arkwright turned and sent a keen glance into her face . 
You're not ? '' No. '' But I heard that Calderwell '' He stopped helplessly . 
You heard that Mr. Calderwell was engaged , very likely . 
But it so happens he isn't engaged to me , '' murmured Alice , faintly . 
But , long ago you said '' Arkwright paused , his eyes still keenly searching her face . 
Never mind what I said long ago , '' laughed Alice , trying unsuccessfully to meet his gaze . 
One says lots of things , at times , you know . 
'' Into Arkwright's eyes came a new light , a light that plainly needed but a breath to fan it into quick fire . 
Alice , '' he said softly , do you mean that maybe now I needn't try to fight that other tiger skin ? '' There was no answer . 
Arkwright reached out a pleading hand . 
Alice , dear , I've loved you so long , '' he begged unsteadily . 
Don't you think that sometime , if I was very , very patient , you could just begin to care a little for me ? '' Still there was no answer . 
Then , slowly , Alice shook her head . 
Her face was turned quite away which was a pity , for if Arkwright could have seen the sudden tender mischief in her eyes , his own would not have become so somber . 
Not even a little bit ? '' I couldn't ever begin , '' answered a half smothered voice . 
Alice ! '' cried the man , heart brokenly . 
Alice turned now , and for a fleeting instant let him see her eyes , glowing with the love so long kept in relentless exile . 
I couldn't , because , you see I began long ago , '' she whispered . 
Alice ! '' breathed the man again and this time the word was , oh , so tenderly whispered into the little pink and white ear of the girl in his arms . 
I got delayed , '' began Billy , in the doorway . 
Oh h ! '' she broke off , beating a hushed , but precipitate , retreat . 
Fully thirty minutes later , Billy came to the door again . 
This time her approach was heralded by a snatch of song . 
I hope you'll excuse my being gone so long , '' she smiled , as she entered the room where her two guests sat decorously face to face at the chess table . 
Well , you know you said you'd be gone ten minutes , '' Arkwright reminded her , politely . 
Yes , I know I did . 
'' And Billy , to her credit , did not even smile at the man who did not know ten minutes from fifty . 
It was Arkwright who told Bertram that the baby was very sick , and that Billy wanted him . 
Then came the turning point when the universe itself appeared to hang upon a baby's breath . 
Gradually , almost imperceptibly , came the fluttering back of the tiny spirit into the longing arms stretched so far , far out to meet and hold it . 
And the father and the mother , looking into each other's sleepless , dark ringed eyes , knew that their son was once more theirs to love and cherish . 
Things that were great before seem small , and some things that were small seem great . 
At least Bertram and Billy found their world thus changed when together they came back bringing their son with them . 
As if anything else mattered ! To be sure , there was Bertram's arm . 
Very early in their talks Billy found out about that . 
But Billy , with Baby getting well , was not to be daunted , even by this . 
Nonsense , darling not paint again , indeed ! Why , Bertram , of course you will , '' she cried confidently . 
But , Billy , the doctor said , '' began Bertram but Billy would not even listen . 
Very well , what if he did , dear ? '' she interrupted . 
What if he did say you couldn't use your right arm much again ? '' Billy's voice broke a little , then quickly steadied into something very much like triumph . 
You've got your left one ! '' Bertram shook his head . 
I can't paint with that . 
'' Yes , you can , '' insisted Billy , firmly . 
As if you weren't ever going to paint for Baby ! Why , Bertram , I'm going to have you paint Baby , one of these days . 
Think how pleased he'll be to see it when he grows up ! He's nicer , anyhow , than any old Face of a Girl' you ever did . 
As if I could ! '' he disclaimed . 
But that afternoon he went into his long deserted studio and hunted up his last unfinished picture . 
For some time he stood motionless before it then , with a quick gesture of determination , he got out his palette , paints , and brushes . 
The next day he worked longer , and this time he allowed a little , a very little , of what he had done to remain . 
The third day Billy herself found him at his easel . 
I wonder do you suppose I could ? '' he asked fearfully . 
I've seen you do a lot of things with it , lately , that you never used to do at all . 
But it was not always of Bertram's broken arm , nor even of his work that they talked . 
He said as much one day to Billy . 
To Billy it was a most astounding idea . 
You mean you were actually jealous of your own baby ? '' she gasped . 
Why , Bertram , how could And was that why you you sought distraction and Oh , but , Bertram , that was all my f fault , '' she quavered remorsefully . 
I'm not going to have you talk like that about my wife ! '' But I did the book said I did , '' wailed Billy . 
The book ? Good heavens ! Are there any books in this , too ? '' demanded Bertram . 
Yes , the same one the the Talks to Young Wives , '' nodded Billy . 
And then , because some things had grown small to them , and some others great , they both laughed happily . 
But even this was not quite all for one evening , very shyly , Billy brought out the chessboard . 
Of course I can't play well , '' she faltered and maybe you don't want to play with me at all . 
'' But Bertram , when he found out why she had learned , was very sure he did want very much to play with her . 
Billy did not beat , of course . 
But she did several times experience for a few blissful minutes the pleasure of seeing Bertram sit motionless , studying the board , because of a move she had made . 
By the middle of June the baby was well enough to be taken to the beach , and Bertram was so fortunate as to secure the same house they had occupied before . 
Once again William went down in Maine for his fishing trip , and the Strata was closed . 
In the beach house Bertram was painting industriously with his left hand . 
Almost he was beginning to feel Billy's enthusiasm . 
Almost he was believing that he was doing good work . 
It was not the Face of a Girl , '' now . 
It was the face of a baby smiling , laughing , even crying , sometimes at other times just gazing straight into your eyes with adorable soberness . 
Bertram still went into Boston twice a week for treatment , though the treatment itself had changed . 
The great surgeon had sent him to still another specialist . 
There's a chance though perhaps a small one , '' he had said . 
I'd like you to try it , anyway . 
'' As the summer advanced , Bertram thought sometimes that he could see a slight improvement in his injured arm but he tried not to think too much about this . 
He had thought the same thing before , only to be disappointed in the end . 
Besides , he was undeniably interested just now in seeing if he could paint with his left hand . 
In September the family returned to the Strata . 
The move was made a little earlier this year on account of Alice Greggory's wedding . 
And you see , really , anyway , '' she told Billy , I owe the whole thing to you , to begin with even my husband . 
'' Nonsense ! Of course you don't , '' disputed Billy . 
If it hadn't been for you I should never have found him again , and of course I shouldn't have had this dear little home to be married in . 
And I never could have left mother if she hadn't had Aunt Hannah and the Annex which means you . 
, and just know that every one of my old friends who shakes hands with me isn't pitying me now , because I'm my father's daughter . 
And that means you for you see I never would have known that my father's name was cleared if it hadn't been for you . 
And '' Oh , Alice , please , please , '' begged Billy , laughingly raising two protesting hands . 
Why don't you say that it's to me you owe just breathing , and be done with it ? '' Well , I will , then , '' avowed Alice , doggedly . 
'' I ? Never ! You wouldn't let me take you out , '' laughed Billy . 
If you knew how I've hated myself since for the way I acted that day and , really , you did take us away from there , you know . 
'' No , I didn't . 
I merely found two good tenants for Mr. and Mrs. Delano , '' corrected Billy , with a sober face . 
The wedding was to be on the fifteenth . 
It was soon after the wedding that Bertram told Billy he wished she would sit for him with Bertram , Jr . 
I want to try my hand at you both together , '' he coaxed . 
Why , of course , if you like , dear , '' agreed Billy , promptly , though I think Baby is just as nice , and even nicer , alone . 
'' Once again all over Bertram's studio began to appear sketches of Billy , this time a glorified , tender Billy , with the wonderful mother love in her eyes . 
Then , after several sketches of trial poses , Bertram began his picture of Billy and the baby together . 
Even now Bertram was not sure of his work . 
He knew that he could not yet paint with his old freedom and ease he knew that his stroke was not so sure , so untrammeled . 
But he knew , too , that he had gained wonderfully , during the summer , and that he was gaining now , every day . 
To Billy he said nothing of all this . 
Oh , Bertram , it is , it is the best work you have ever done . 
'' Billy was looking at the baby . 
Always she had ignored herself as part of the picture . 
And won't it be fine for the Exhibition ! '' Bertram's hand tightened on the chair back in front of him . 
For a moment he could not speak . 
Now what do you say about Baby being nicer than any old Face of a Girl' that you ever did ? '' she triumphed . 
It came just one month after the Exhibition in the shape of a terse dozen words from the doctor . 
Bertram fairly flew home that day . 
He had no consciousness of any means of locomotion . 
Why , Bertram , dearest , what what is it ? '' stammered the thoroughly frightened Billy . 
Has anything happened ? '' No , no yes yes , everything has happened . 
I mean , it's going to happen , '' choked the man . 
Billy , that old chap says that I'm going to have my arm again . 
Think of it my good right arm that I've lost so long ! '' Oh , Bertram ! '' breathed Billy . 
And she , too , fell to sobbing . 
'' Oh , but I have you to thank for all that , dear . 
'' Clocks , dear ? '' Yes . 
I was out to Aunt Hannah's to day . 
Well , that's like marriage . 
See ? There's such a lot of little cogs in everyday life that have to be fitted so they'll run smoothly that have to be adjusted , 'specially at the first . 
'' Oh , Billy , what an idea ! '' But it's so , really , Bertram . 
Anyhow , I know my cogs were always getting out of place at the first , '' laughed Billy . 
And I was like Aunt Hannah's clock , too , always going off half an hour ahead of time . 
And maybe I shall be so again , sometimes . 
But , Bertram , '' her voice shook a little if you'll just look at my face you'll see that I tell the right time there , just as Aunt Hannah's clock does . 
