Extracted from a Family Paper I address these lines written in India to my relatives in England . 
My object is to explain the motive which has induced me to refuse the right hand of friendship to my cousin , John Herncastle . 
The reserve which I have hitherto maintained in this matter has been misinterpreted by members of my family whose good opinion I cannot consent to forfeit . 
I request them to suspend their decision until they have read my narrative . 
And I declare , on my word of honour , that what I am now about to write is , strictly and literally , the truth . 
II One of the wildest of these stories related to a Yellow Diamond a famous gem in the native annals of India . 
The earliest known traditions describe the stone as having been set in the forehead of the four handed Indian god who typifies the Moon . 
The adventures of the Yellow Diamond begin with the eleventh century of the Christian era . 
Of all the deities worshipped in the temple , the moon god alone escaped the rapacity of the conquering Mohammedans . 
Here , in a new shrine in a hall inlaid with precious stones , under a roof supported by pillars of gold the moon god was set up and worshipped . 
Here , on the night when the shrine was completed , Vishnu the Preserver appeared to the three Brahmins in a dream . 
The deity breathed the breath of his divinity on the Diamond in the forehead of the god . 
And the Brahmins knelt and hid their faces in their robes . 
The deity commanded that the Moonstone should be watched , from that time forth , by three priests in turn , night and day , to the end of the generations of men . 
And the Brahmins heard , and bowed before his will . 
The deity predicted certain disaster to the presumptuous mortal who laid hands on the sacred gem , and to all of his house and name who received it after him . 
And the Brahmins caused the prophecy to be written over the gates of the shrine in letters of gold . 
One age followed another and still , generation after generation , the successors of the three Brahmins watched their priceless Moonstone , night and day . 
One age followed another until the first years of the eighteenth Christian century saw the reign of Aurungzebe , Emperor of the Moguls . 
At his command havoc and rapine were let loose once more among the temples of the worship of Brahmah . 
Powerless to recover their lost treasure by open force , the three guardian priests followed and watched it in disguise . 
Time rolled on from the first to the last years of the eighteenth Christian century . 
Even then in the palace of the Sultan himself the three guardian priests still kept their watch in secret . 
III So , as told in our camp , ran the fanciful story of the Moonstone . 
It made no serious impression on any of us except my cousin whose love of the marvellous induced him to believe it . 
On the night before the assault on Seringapatam , he was absurdly angry with me , and with others , for treating the whole thing as a fable . 
A foolish wrangle followed and Herncastle's unlucky temper got the better of him . 
He declared , in his boastful way , that we should see the Diamond on his finger , if the English army took Seringapatam . 
The sally was saluted by a roar of laughter , and there , as we all thought that night , the thing ended . 
Let me now take you on to the day of the assault . 
My cousin and I were separated at the outset . 
We were each attached to a party sent out by the general's orders to prevent the plunder and confusion which followed our conquest . 
It was in the court outside the treasury that my cousin and I met , to enforce the laws of discipline on our own soldiers . 
Herncastle's fiery temper had been , as I could plainly see , exasperated to a kind of frenzy by the terrible slaughter through which we had passed . 
He was very unfit , in my opinion , to perform the duty that had been entrusted to him . 
There was riot and confusion enough in the treasury , but no violence that I saw . 
All sorts of rough jests and catchwords were bandied about among them and the story of the Diamond turned up again unexpectedly , in the form of a mischievous joke . 
Who's got the Moonstone ? was the rallying cry which perpetually caused the plundering , as soon as it was stopped in one place , to break out in another . 
lying across the entrance , dead . 
A cry inside hurried me into a room , which appeared to serve as an armoury . 
A third Indian , mortally wounded , was sinking at the feet of a man whose back was towards me . 
The man turned at the instant when I came in , and I saw John Herncastle , with a torch in one hand , and a dagger dripping with blood in the other . 
A stone , set like a pommel , in the end of the dagger's handle , flashed in the torchlight , as he turned on me , like a gleam of fire . 
Before I could stir in the matter , the men who had followed me across the courtyard crowded in . 
My cousin rushed to meet them , like a madman . 
Clear the room ! he shouted to me , and set a guard on the door ! The men fell back as he threw himself on them with his torch and his dagger . 
I put two sentinels of my own company , on whom I could rely , to keep the door . 
Through the remainder of the night , I saw no more of my cousin . 
The provost marshal was in attendance , to prove that the General was in earnest and in the throng that followed the proclamation , Herncastle and I met again . 
He held out his hand , as usual , and said , Good morning . 
I waited before I gave him my hand in return . 
Tell me first , I said , how the Indian in the armoury met his death , and what those last words meant , when he pointed to the dagger in your hand . 
The Indian met his death , as I suppose , by a mortal wound , said Herncastle . 
What his last words meant I know no more than you do . 
I looked at him narrowly . 
His frenzy of the previous day had all calmed down . 
I determined to give him another chance . 
Is that all you have to tell me ? I asked . 
He answered , That is all . 
I turned my back on him and we have not spoken since . 
is for the information of the family only . 
Herncastle has said nothing that can justify me in speaking to our commanding officer . 
It is reported that he means to exchange into another regiment , avowedly for the purpose of separating himself from ME . 
Whether this be true or not , I cannot prevail upon myself to become his accuser and I think with good reason . 
If I made the matter public , I have no evidence but moral evidence to bring forward . 
It is my conviction , or my delusion , no matter which , that crime brings its own fatality with it . 
Only yesterday , I opened my ROBINSON CRUSOE at that place . 
Mr. Bruff thinks as I think , that the whole story ought , in the interests of truth , to be placed on record in writing and the sooner the better . 
Not perceiving his drift yet , and thinking it always desirable for the sake of peace and quietness to be on the lawyer's side , I said I thought so too . 
In this matter of the Diamond , he said , the characters of innocent people have suffered under suspicion already as you know . 
The memories of innocent people may suffer , hereafter , for want of a record of the facts to which those who come after us can appeal . 
There can be no doubt that this strange family story of ours ought to be told . 
And I think , Betteredge , Mr. Bruff and I together have hit on the right way of telling it . 
Very satisfactory to both of them , no doubt . 
But I failed to see what I myself had to do with it , so far . 
We have certain events to relate , Mr. Franklin proceeded and we have certain persons concerned in those events who are capable of relating them . 
Starting from these plain facts , the idea is that we should all write the story of the Moonstone in turn as far as our own personal experience extends , and no farther . 
We must begin by showing how the Diamond first fell into the hands of my uncle Herncastle , when he was serving in India fifty years since . 
This prefatory narrative I have already got by me in the form of an old family paper , which relates the necessary particulars on the authority of an eye witness . 
Nobody knows as much as you do , Betteredge , about what went on in the house at that time . 
So you must take the pen in hand , and start the story . 
In those terms I was informed of what my personal concern was with the matter of the Diamond . 
If you are curious to know what course I took under the circumstances , I beg to inform you that I did what you would probably have done in my place . 
Mr. Franklin , I imagine , must have seen my private sentiments in my face . 
He declined to believe in my modesty and he insisted on giving my abilities a fair chance . 
Two hours have passed since Mr. Franklin left me . 
As soon as his back was turned , I went to my writing desk to start the story . 
Though turned seventy , I possess an active memory , and legs to correspond . 
I have tried that book for years generally in combination with a pipe of tobacco and I have found it my friend in need in all the necessities of this mortal life . 
When my spirits are bad ROBINSON CRUSOE . 
When I want advice ROBINSON CRUSOE . 
In past times when my wife plagued me in present times when I have had a drop too much ROBINSON CRUSOE . 
I have worn out six stout ROBINSON CRUSOES with hard work in my service . 
On my lady's last birthday she gave me a seventh . 
I took a drop too much on the strength of it and ROBINSON CRUSOE put me right again . 
Price four shillings and sixpence , bound in blue , with a picture into the bargain . 
Still , this don't look much like starting the story of the Diamond does it ? I seem to be wandering off in search of Lord knows what , Lord knows where . 
We will take a new sheet of paper , if you please , and begin over again , with my best respects to you . 
CHAPTER II I spoke of my lady a line or two back . 
Consequently , if we begin with my lady , we are pretty sure of beginning far enough back . 
And that , let me tell you , when you have got such a job as mine in hand , is a real comfort at starting . 
If you know anything of the fashionable world , you have heard tell of the three beautiful Miss Herncastles . 
I say , I went into the service of the old lord , as page boy in waiting on the three honourable young ladies , at the age of fifteen years . 
There I lived till Miss Julia married the late Sir John Verinder . 
I have omitted to state that I went with the bride to the bride's husband's house and lands down here . 
Sir John , she says , I can't do without Gabriel Betteredge . 
My lady , says Sir John , I can't do without him , either . 
That was his way with her and that was how I went into his service . 
It was all one to me where I went , so long as my mistress and I were together . 
My lady got me put under the bailiff , and I did my best , and gave satisfaction , and got promotion accordingly . 
Some years later , on the Monday as it might be , my lady says , Sir John , your bailiff is a stupid old man . 
Pension him liberally , and let Gabriel Betteredge have his place . 
On the Tuesday as it might be , Sir John says , My lady , the bailiff is pensioned liberally and Gabriel Betteredge has got his place . 
You hear more than enough of married people living together miserably . 
Here is an example to the contrary . 
Let it be a warning to some of you , and an encouragement to others . 
In the meantime , I will go on with my story . 
Well , there I was in clover , you will say . 
The woman I fixed my eye on , was the woman who kept house for me at my cottage . 
Her name was Selina Goby . 
I agree with the late William Cobbett about picking a wife . 
See that she chews her food well and sets her foot down firmly on the ground when she walks , and you're all right . 
Selina Goby was all right in both these respects , which was one reason for marrying her . 
I had another reason , likewise , entirely of my own discovering . 
Selina , being a single woman , made me pay so much a week for her board and services . 
Selina , being my wife , couldn't charge for her board , and would have to give me her services for nothing . 
That was the point of view I looked at it from . 
Economy with a dash of love . 
I put it to my mistress , as in duty bound , just as I had put it to myself . 
I have been turning Selina Goby over in my mind , I said , and I think , my lady , it will be cheaper to marry her than to keep her . 
My lady burst out laughing , and said she didn't know which to be most shocked at my language or my principles . 
Some joke tickled her , I suppose , of the sort that you can't take unless you are a person of quality . 
Understanding nothing myself but that I was free to put it next to Selina , I went and put it accordingly . 
And what did Selina say ? Lord ! how little you must know of women , if you ask that . 
Of course she said , Yes . 
As my time drew nearer , and there got to be talk of my having a new coat for the ceremony , my mind began to misgive me . 
I went a trifle further than that myself I actually rose up , as it were , and tried to get out of it . 
Not for nothing ! I was too just a man to expect she would let me off for nothing . 
Compensation to the woman when the man gets out of it , is one of the laws of England . 
In obedience to the laws , and after turning it over carefully in my mind , I offered Selina Goby a feather bed and fifty shillings to be off the bargain . 
You will hardly believe it , but it is nevertheless true she was fool enough to refuse . 
After that it was all over with me , of course . 
I got the new coat as cheap as I could , and I went through all the rest of it as cheap as I could . 
We were not a happy couple , and not a miserable couple . 
We were six of one and half a dozen of the other . 
How it was I don't understand , but we always seemed to be getting , with the best of motives , in one another's way . 
When I wanted to go up stairs , there was my wife coming down or when my wife wanted to go down , there was I coming up . 
That is married life , according to my experience of it . 
After five years of misunderstandings on the stairs , it pleased an all wise Providence to relieve us of each other by taking my wife . 
I was left with my little girl Penelope , and with no other child . 
Shortly afterwards Sir John died , and my lady was left with her little girl , Miss Rachel , and no other child . 
As for me , I went on with my business as bailiff year after year up to Christmas , when there came a change in my life . 
On that day , my lady invited herself to a cup of tea alone with me in my cottage . 
I received this magnificent present quite at a loss to find words to thank my mistress with for the honour she had done me . 
To my great astonishment , it turned out , however , that the waistcoat was not an honour , but a bribe . 
into giving up my hard out of door work as bailiff , and taking my ease for the rest of my days as steward in the house . 
I made as good a fight of it against the indignity of taking my ease as I could . 
But my mistress knew the weak side of me she put it as a favour to herself . 
The dispute between us ended , after that , in my wiping my eyes , like an old fool , with my new woollen waistcoat , and saying I would think about it . 
I smoked a pipe and took a turn at ROBINSON CRUSOE . 
, as follows To day we love , what to morrow we hate . 
I saw my way clear directly . 
To day I was all for continuing to be farm bailiff to morrow , on the authority of ROBINSON CRUSOE , I should be all the other way . 
Take myself to morrow while in to morrow's humour , and the thing was done . 
All quite comfortable , and all through ROBINSON CRUSOE ! My daughter Penelope has just looked over my shoulder to see what I have done so far . 
She remarks that it is beautifully written , and every word of it true . 
But she points out one objection . 
She says what I have done so far isn't in the least what I was wanted to do . 
I am asked to tell the story of the Diamond and , instead of that , I have been telling the story of my own self . 
Curious , and quite beyond me to account for . 
In the meantime , here is another false start , and more waste of good writing paper . 
What's to be done now ? Nothing that I know of , except for you to keep your temper , and for me to begin it all over again for the third time . 
CHAPTER III The question of how I am to start the story properly I have tried to settle in two ways . 
First , by scratching my head , which led to nothing . 
Second , by consulting my daughter Penelope , which has resulted in an entirely new idea . 
When you come to fix your memory with a date in this way , it is wonderful what your memory will pick up for you upon that compulsion . 
The only difficulty is to fetch out the dates , in the first place . 
When I inquire what this means , Penelope says , Fiddlesticks ! I say , Sweethearts . 
Gabriel , says my lady , here is news that will surprise you . 
Franklin Blake has come back from abroad . 
He has been staying with his father in London , and he is coming to us to morrow to stop till next month , and keep Rachel's birthday . 
If I had had a hat in my hand , nothing but respect would have prevented me from throwing that hat up to the ceiling . 
I had not seen Mr. Franklin since he was a boy , living along with us in this house . 
He was , out of all sight , the nicest boy that ever spun a top or broke a window . 
I burn with indignation , and I ache with fatigue , was the way Miss Rachel summed it up , when I think of Franklin Blake . 
I answer , because his father had the misfortune to be next heir to a Dukedom , and not to be able to prove it . 
In two words , this was how the thing happened My lady's eldest sister married the celebrated Mr. Blake equally famous for his great riches , and his great suit at law . 
His wife died , and two of his three children died , before the tribunals could make up their minds to show him the door and take no more of his money . 
There ! thank God , that's told ! Neither you nor I need trouble our heads any more about Mr. Blake , senior . 
Leave him to the Dukedom and let you and I stick to the Diamond . 
The Diamond takes us back to Mr. Franklin , who was the innocent means of bringing that unlucky jewel into the house . 
Our nice boy didn't forget us after he went abroad . 
He wrote every now and then sometimes to my lady , sometimes to Miss Rachel , and sometimes to me . 
His letters to me chiefly related to borrowing more . 
I heard , however , from my lady , how he got on abroad , as he grew in years and stature . 
After he had learnt what the institutions of Germany could teach him , he gave the French a turn next , and the Italians a turn after that . 
They made him among them a sort of universal genius , as well as I could understand it . 
fell to him when he came of age , and ran through him , as it might be through a sieve . 
The more money he had , the more he wanted there was a hole in Mr. Franklin's pocket that nothing would sew up . 
Wherever he went , the lively , easy way of him made him welcome . 
being Post Office , Europe to be left till called for . 
, some unmentionable woman stood in the way and stopped him . 
His third attempt succeeded , as you know already from what my lady told me . 
On Thursday the twenty fifth of May , we were to see for the first time what our nice boy had grown to be as a man . 
He came of good blood he had a high courage and he was five and twenty years of age , by our reckoning . 
Now you know as much of Mr. Franklin Blake as I did before Mr. Franklin Blake came down to our house . 
drove out to lunch with some friends in the neighbourhood . 
When they were gone , I went and had a look at the bedroom which had been got ready for our guest , and saw that all was straight . 
then , I say , I fetched up some of our famous Latour claret , and set it in the warm summer air to take off the chill before dinner . 
Going round to the terrace , I found three mahogany coloured Indians , in white linen frocks and trousers , looking up at the house . 
The Indians , as I saw on looking closer , had small hand drums slung in front of them . 
Behind them stood a little delicate looking light haired English boy carrying a bag . 
I judged the fellows to be strolling conjurors , and the boy with the bag to be carrying the tools of their trade . 
One of the three , who spoke English and who exhibited , I must own , the most elegant manners , presently informed me that my judgment was right . 
He requested permission to show his tricks in the presence of the lady of the house . 
Now I am not a sour old man . 
I am generally all for amusement , and the last person in the world to distrust another person because he happens to be a few shades darker than myself . 
I accordingly informed the Indian that the lady of the house was out and I warned him and his party off the premises . 
He made me a beautiful bow in return and he and his party went off the premises . 
, not exactly into a sleep , but into the next best thing to it . 
I was roused up by my daughter Penelope running out at me as if the house was on fire . 
Mr. Franklin's name roused me . 
I opened my eyes , and made my girl explain herself . 
It appeared that Penelope had just come from our lodge , where she had been having a gossip with the lodge keeper's daughter . 
The two girls had seen the Indians pass out , after I had warned them off , followed by their little boy . 
Those proceedings resulted in the performance of the following extraordinary tricks . 
They first looked up the road , and down the road , and made sure that they were alone . 
Then they all three faced about , and stared hard in the direction of our house . 
Then they jabbered and disputed in their own language , and looked at each other like men in doubt . 
Then they all turned to their little English boy , as if they expected HIM to help them . 
And then the chief Indian , who spoke English , said to the boy , Hold out your hand . 
On hearing those dreadful words , my daughter Penelope said she didn't know what prevented her heart from flying straight out of her . 
I thought privately that it might have been her stays . 
All I said , however , was , You make my flesh creep . 
Well , when the Indian said , Hold out your hand , the boy shrunk back , and shook his head , and said he didn't like it . 
This , it seems , ended the difficulty . 
The little chap unwillingly held out his hand . 
Upon that , the Indian took a bottle from his bosom , and poured out of it some black stuff , like ink , into the palm of the boy's hand . 
The Indian first touching the boy's head , and making signs over it in the air then said , Look . 
The boy became quite stiff , and stood like a statue , looking into the ink in the hollow of his hand . 
The Indians looked up the road and down the road once more and then the chief Indian said these words to the boy See the English gentleman from foreign parts . 
The boy said , I see him . 
The Indian put a second question after waiting a little first . 
He said Has the English gentleman got It about him ? The boy answered also , after waiting a little first Yes . 
The boy said , I am tired . 
The mist rises in my head , and puzzles me . 
I can see no more to day . 
With that the catechism ended . 
The chief Indian said something in his own language to the other two , pointing to the boy , and pointing towards the town , in which they were lodged . 
He then , after making more signs on the boy's head , blew on his forehead , and so woke him up with a start . 
After that , they all went on their way towards the town , and the girls saw them no more . 
Most things they say have a moral , if you only look for it . 
meant to hang about till they saw my lady drive home , and then to come back , and foretell Mr. Franklin's arrival by magic . 
Third , that Penelope had heard them rehearsing their hocus pocus , like actors rehearsing a play . 
Fourth , that I should do well to have an eye , that evening , on the plate basket . 
Fifth , that Penelope would do well to cool down , and leave me , her father , to doze off again in the sun . 
That appeared to me to be the sensible view . 
If you know anything of the ways of young women , you won't be surprised to hear that Penelope wouldn't take it . 
The moral of the thing was serious , according to my daughter . 
What does 'It' mean ? We'll ask Mr. Franklin , my dear , I said , if you can wait till Mr. Franklin comes . 
I winked to show I meant that in joke . 
Penelope took it quite seriously . 
My girl's earnestness tickled me . 
What on earth should Mr. Franklin know about it ? I inquired . 
Ask him , says Penelope . 
And see whether HE thinks it a laughing matter , too . 
With that parting shot , my daughter left me . 
I settled it with myself , when she was gone , that I really would ask Mr. Franklin mainly to set Penelope's mind at rest . 
What was said between us , when I did ask him , later on that same day , you will find set out fully in its proper place . 
To my great surprise , Mr. Franklin , like Penelope , took the thing seriously . 
How seriously , you will understand , when I tell you that , in his opinion , It meant the Moonstone . 
CHAPTER IV I am truly sorry to detain you over me and my beehive chair . 
A sleepy old man , in a sunny back yard , is not an interesting object , I am well aware . 
I was just stretching my legs , when out bounced another woman on me . 
Not my daughter again only Nancy , the kitchen maid , this time . 
What are you turning your back on your dinner for ? I asked . 
What's wrong now , Nancy ? Nancy tried to push by , without answering upon which I rose up , and took her by the ear . 
She is a nice plump young lass , and it is customary with me to adopt that manner of showing that I personally approve of a girl . 
What's wrong now ? I said once more . 
Rosanna's late again for dinner , says Nancy . 
And I'm sent to fetch her in . 
All the hard work falls on my shoulders in this house . 
Let me alone , Mr. Betteredge ! The person here mentioned as Rosanna was our second housemaid . 
Where is Rosanna ? I inquired . 
At the sands , of course ! says Nancy , with a toss of her head . 
She had another of her fainting fits this morning , and she asked to go out and get a breath of fresh air . 
I have no patience with her ! Go back to your dinner , my girl , I said . 
I have patience with her , and I'll fetch her in . 
When she looks pleased , she looks nice . 
When she looks nice , I chuck her under the chin . 
It isn't immorality it's only habit . 
Well , I took my stick , and set off for the sands . 
No ! it won't do to set off yet . 
was the only new servant in our house . 
that the girl was one in a thousand , and that she only wanted a chance to prove herself worthy of any Christian woman's interest in her . 
said to the matron , upon that , Rosanna Spearman shall have her chance , in my service . 
In a week afterwards , Rosanna Spearman entered this establishment as our second housemaid . 
Not a soul was told the girl's story , excepting Miss Rachel and me . 
My lady , doing me the honour to consult me about most things , consulted me about Rosanna . 
Having fallen a good deal latterly into the late Sir John's way of always agreeing with my lady , I agreed with her heartily about Rosanna Spearman . 
A fairer chance no girl could have had than was given to this poor girl of ours . 
None of the servants could cast her past life in her teeth , for none of the servants knew what it had been . 
She had her wages and her privileges , like the rest of them and every now and then a friendly word from my lady , in private , to encourage her . 
In return , she showed herself , I am bound to say , well worthy of the kind treatment bestowed upon her . 
Though far from strong , and troubled occasionally with those fainting fits already mentioned , she went about her work modestly and uncomplainingly , doing it carefully , and doing it well . 
But , somehow , she failed to make friends among the other women servants , excepting my daughter Penelope , who was always kind to Rosanna , though never intimate with her . 
I hardly know what the girl did to offend them . 
There was certainly no beauty about her to make the others envious she was the plainest woman in the house , with the additional misfortune of having one shoulder bigger than the other . 
What the servants chiefly resented , I think , was her silent tongue and her solitary ways . 
She read or worked in leisure hours when the rest gossiped . 
And when it came to her turn to go out , nine times out of ten she quietly put on her bonnet , and had her turn by herself . 
She never quarrelled , she never took offence she only kept a certain distance , obstinately and civilly , between the rest of them and herself . 
Add to this that , plain as she was , there was just a dash of something that wasn't like a housemaid , and that WAS like a lady , about her . 
It might have been in her voice , or it might have been in her face . 
that Rosanna Spearman gave herself airs . 
Having now told the story of Rosanna , I have only to notice one of the many queer ways of this strange girl to get on next to the story of the sands . 
Our house is high up on the Yorkshire coast , and close by the sea . 
We have got beautiful walks all round us , in every direction but one . 
That one I acknowledge to be a horrid walk . 
The sand hills here run down to the sea , and end in two spits of rock jutting out opposite each other , till you lose sight of them in the water . 
One is called the North Spit , and one the South . 
Between the two , shifting backwards and forwards at certain seasons of the year , lies the most horrible quicksand on the shores of Yorkshire . 
A great bank , half a mile out , nigh the mouth of the bay , breaks the force of the main ocean coming in from the offing . 
A lonesome and a horrid retreat , I can tell you ! No boat ever ventures into this bay . 
No children from our fishing village , called Cobb's Hole , ever come here to play . 
The very birds of the air , as it seems to me , give the Shivering Sand a wide berth . 
I saw no sign of the girl in the plantation . 
She started when I came up with her , and turned her head away from me . 
My bandanna handkerchief one of six beauties given to me by my lady was handy in my pocket . 
I took it out , and I said to Rosanna , Come and sit down , my dear , on the slope of the beach along with me . 
I'll dry your eyes for you first , and then I'll make so bold as to ask what you have been crying about . 
When you come to my age , you will find sitting down on the slope of a beach a much longer job than you think it now . 
By the time I was settled , Rosanna had dried her own eyes with a very inferior handkerchief to mine cheap cambric . 
She looked very quiet , and very wretched but she sat down by me like a good girl , when I told her . 
When you want to comfort a woman by the shortest way , take her on your knee . 
I thought of this golden rule . 
My past life still comes back to me sometimes . 
Come , come , my girl , I said , your past life is all sponged out . 
Why can't you forget it ? She took me by one of the lappets of my coat . 
I am a slovenly old man , and a good deal of my meat and drink gets splashed about on my clothes . 
Sometimes one of the women , and sometimes another , cleans me of my grease . 
The day before , Rosanna had taken out a spot for me on the lappet of my coat , with a new composition , warranted to remove anything . 
The grease was gone , but there was a little dull place left on the nap of the cloth where the grease had been . 
The girl pointed to that place , and shook her head . 
The stain is taken off , she said . 
But the place shows , Mr. Betteredge the place shows ! A remark which takes a man unawares by means of his own coat is not an easy remark to answer . 
Something in the girl herself , too , made me particularly sorry for her just then . 
Not feeling myself able to comfort her , there was only one other thing to do . 
That thing was to take her in to dinner . 
Help me up , I said . 
You're late for dinner , Rosanna and I have come to fetch you in . 
You , Mr. Betteredge ! says she . 
They told Nancy to fetch you , I said . 
But thought you might like your scolding better , my dear , if it came from me . 
Instead of helping me up , the poor thing stole her hand into mine , and gave it a little squeeze . 
She tried hard to keep from crying again , and succeeded for which I respected her . 
You're very kind , Mr. Betteredge , she said . 
I don't want any dinner to day let me bide a little longer here . 
What makes you like to be here ? I asked . 
What is it that brings you everlastingly to this miserable place ? Something draws me to it , says the girl , making images with her finger in the sand . 
I try to keep away from it , and I can't . 
There's roast mutton and suet pudding waiting for you ! says I. Go in to dinner directly . 
I think the place has laid a spell on me , she said . 
I dream of it night after night I think of it when I sit stitching at my work . 
You know I am grateful , Mr. Betteredge you know I try to deserve your kindness , and my lady's confidence in me . 
It's more lonely to me to be among the other servants , knowing I am not what they are , than it is to he here . 
My lady doesn't know , the matron at the reformatory doesn't know , what a dreadful reproach honest people are in themselves to a woman like me . 
Don't scold me , there's a dear good man . 
I do my work , don't I ? Please not to tell my lady I am discontented I am not . 
My mind's unquiet , sometimes , that's all . 
She snatched her hand off my shoulder , and suddenly pointed down to the quicksand . 
The tide was on the turn , and the horrid sand began to shiver . 
The broad brown face of it heaved slowly , and then dimpled and quivered all over . 
Do you know what it looks like to ME ? says Rosanna , catching me by the shoulder again . 
Betteredge ! cries the voice , where are you ? Here ! I shouted out in return , without a notion in my mind of who it was . 
Rosanna started to her feet , and stood looking towards the voice . 
I was just thinking of getting on my own legs next , when I was staggered by a sudden change in the girl's face . 
Her complexion turned of a beautiful red , which I had never seen in it before she brightened all over with a kind of speechless and breathless surprise . 
Who is it ? I asked . 
Rosanna gave me back my own question . 
Oh ! who is it ? she said softly , more to herself than to me . 
I twisted round on the sand and looked behind me . 
Dear old Betteredge ! says he . 
I owe you seven and sixpence . 
Following his lead , I looked at the girl too . 
Very unlike her usual self a civiller and better behaved servant , in general , you never met with . 
That's an odd girl , says Mr. Franklin . 
I wonder what she sees in me to surprise her ? I suppose , sir , I answered , drolling on our young gentleman's Continental education , it's the varnish from foreign parts . 
She was out of our thoughts , poor soul , before we had seen the last flutter of her little grey cloak among the sand hills . 
And what of that ? you will ask , naturally enough . 
Read on , good friend , as patiently as you can , and perhaps you will be as sorry for Rosanna Spearman as I was , when I found out the truth . 
CHAPTER V The first thing I did , after we were left together alone , was to make a third attempt to get up from my seat on the sand . 
There is one advantage about this horrid place , he said we have got it all to ourselves . 
Stay where you are , Betteredge I have something to say to you . 
While he was speaking , I was looking at him , and trying to see something of the boy I remembered , in the man before me . 
The man put me out . 
Look as I might , I could see no more of his boy's rosy cheeks than of his boy's trim little jacket . 
His complexion had got pale his face , at the lower part was covered , to my great surprise and disappointment , with a curly brown beard and mustachios . 
He had a lively touch and go way with him , very pleasant and engaging , I admit but nothing to compare with his free and easy manners of other times . 
To make matters worse , he had promised to be tall , and had not kept his promise . 
He was neat , and slim , and well made but he wasn't by an inch or two up to the middle height . 
In short , he baffled me altogether . 
The years that had passed had left nothing of his old self , except the bright , straightforward look in his eyes . 
There I found our nice boy again , and there I concluded to stop in my investigation . 
Welcome back to the old place , Mr. Franklin , I said . 
All the more welcome , sir , that you have come some hours before we expected you . 
I have a reason for coming before you expected me , answered Mr. Franklin . 
Those words did more than surprise me . 
They brought back to my mind , in a flash , the three jugglers , and Penelope's notion that they meant some mischief to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
Who's watching you , sir , and why ? I inquired . 
Tell me about the three Indians you have had at the house to day , says Mr. Franklin , without noticing my question . 
It's just possible , Betteredge , that my stranger and your three jugglers may turn out to be pieces of the same puzzle . 
How do you come to know about the jugglers , sir ? I asked , putting one question on the top of another , which was bad manners , I own . 
But you don't expect much from poor human nature so don't expect much from me . 
I saw Penelope at the house , says Mr. Franklin and Penelope told me . 
Your daughter promised to be a pretty girl , Betteredge , and she has kept her promise . 
Penelope has got a small ear and a small foot . 
was never keeping to the matter in hand . 
She was more like a fly than a woman she couldn't settle on anything . 
She would just have suited me , says Mr. Franklin . 
I never settle on anything either . 
Betteredge , your edge is better than ever . 
Your daughter said as much , when I asked for particulars about the jugglers . 
Father will tell you , sir . 
He's a wonderful man for his age and he expresses himself beautifully . 
Penelope's own words blushing divinely . 
Not even my respect for you prevented me from never mind I knew her when she was a child , and she's none the worse for it . 
However , there was no help for it now but to mention the circumstances . 
Mr. Franklin's merriment all died away as I went on . 
He sat knitting his eyebrows , and twisting his beard . 
When I had done , he repeated after me two of the questions which the chief juggler had put to the boy seemingly for the purpose of fixing them well in his mind . 
And 'this , Betteredge , means my uncle Herncastle's famous Diamond . 
And my father , as the wicked Colonel's executor , has given it in charge to me to bring down here . 
He belonged to your time , not to mine . 
Tell me what you know about him , and I'll tell you how my father came to be his executor , and more besides . 
I have made some discoveries in London about my uncle Herncastle and his Diamond , which have rather an ugly look to my eyes and I want you to confirm them . 
You called him the 'wicked Colonel' just now . 
Search your memory , my old friend , and tell me why . 
I saw he was in earnest , and I told him . 
Here follows the substance of what I said , written out entirely for your benefit . 
Pay attention to it , or you will be all abroad , when we get deeper into the story . 
Clear your mind of the children , or the dinner , or the new bonnet , or what not . 
Try if you can't forget politics , horses , prices in the City , and grievances at the club . 
I hope you won't take this freedom on my part amiss it's only a way I have of appealing to the gentle reader . 
He had five children in all . 
Of the two sons , the eldest , Arthur , inherited the title and estates . 
The second , the Honourable John , got a fine fortune left him by a relative , and went into the army . 
It's an ill bird , they say , that fouls its own nest . 
He was , I honestly believe , one of the greatest blackguards that ever lived . 
I can hardly say more or less for him than that . 
He went into the army , beginning in the Guards . 
He had to leave the Guards before he was two and twenty never mind why . 
They are very strict in the army , and they were too strict for the Honourable John . 
He went out to India to see whether they were equally strict there , and to try a little active service . 
, he was a mixture of bull dog and game cock , with a dash of the savage . 
He was at the taking of Seringapatam . 
Soon afterwards he changed into another regiment , and , in course of time , changed into a third . 
In the third he got his last step as lieutenant colonel , and , getting that , got also a sunstroke , and came home to England . 
that her brother should never enter any house of hers . 
There was more than one slur on the Colonel that made people shy of him but the blot of the Diamond is all I need mention here . 
It was said he had got possession of his Indian jewel by means which , bold as he was , he didn't dare acknowledge . 
He never attempted to sell it not being in need of money , and not making money an object . 
He never gave it away he never even showed it to any living soul . 
said he was afraid , if he showed it , of its costing him his life . 
There was perhaps a grain of truth mixed up with this last report . 
When he came back to England , and found himself avoided by everybody , the Moonstone was thought to be at the bottom of it again . 
The mystery of the Colonel's life got in the Colonel's way , and outlawed him , as you may say , among his own people . 
Some men in this mess would have tried to set themselves right with the world . 
But to give in , even when he was wrong , and had all society against him , was not the way of the Honourable John . 
He had kept the Diamond , in flat defiance of assassination , in India . 
He kept the Diamond , in flat defiance of public opinion , in England . 
We heard different rumours about him from time to time . 
Anyhow , a solitary , vicious , underground life was the life the Colonel led . 
Once , and once only , after his return to England , I myself saw him , face to face . 
It was the night of Miss Rachel's birthday , the twenty first of June and there was a party in honour of it , as usual . 
I received a message from the footman to say that a gentleman wanted to see me . 
Going up into the hall , there I found the Colonel , wasted , and worn , and old , and shabby , and as wild and as wicked as ever . 
Go up to my sister , says he and say that I have called to wish my niece many happy returns of the day . 
He had made attempts by letter , more than once already , to be reconciled with my lady , for no other purpose , I am firmly persuaded , than to annoy her . 
But this was the first time he had actually come to the house . 
I had it on the tip of my tongue to say that my mistress had a party that night . 
But the devilish look of him daunted me . 
I went up stairs with his message , and left him , by his own desire , waiting in the hall . 
My lady had a dash no more of the family temper . 
Tell Colonel Herncastle , she said , when I gave her her brother's message , that Miss Verinder is engaged , and that I decline to see him . 
I tried to plead for a civiller answer than that knowing the Colonel's constitutional superiority to the restraints which govern gentlemen in general . 
Quite useless ! The family temper flashed out at me directly . 
When I want your advice , says my lady , you know that I always ask for it . 
I don't ask for it now . 
I expected him to break out , even at that polite way of putting it . 
To my surprise he did nothing of the sort he alarmed me by taking the thing with an unnatural quiet . 
Thank you , Betteredge , he said . 
I shall remember my niece's birthday . 
With that , he turned on his heel , and walked out of the house . 
The next birthday came round , and we heard he was ill in bed . 
Six months afterwards that is to say , six months before the time I am now writing of there came a letter from a highly respectable clergyman to my lady . 
It communicated two wonderful things in the way of family news . 
First , that the Colonel had forgiven his sister on his death bed . 
Second , that he had forgiven everybody else , and had made a most edifying end . 
to take the clergyman in ! This was the sum total of what I had to tell Mr. Franklin . 
I remarked that he listened more and more eagerly the longer I went on . 
Though he didn't acknowledge it , I saw that I had made him uneasy , plainly enough , in his face . 
You have said your say , Betteredge , he remarked . 
You look , my old friend , as if you didn't quite understand the object to be answered by this consultation of ours . 
Do your looks belie you ? No , sir , I said . 
My looks , on this occasion at any rate , tell the truth . 
In that case , says Mr. Franklin , suppose I put you up to my point of view , before we go any further . 
I see three very serious questions involved in the Colonel's birthday gift to my cousin Rachel . 
Don't let me frighten you . 
It was all very well to say that , but he HAD frightened me . 
I shall go on with my story , however , in spite of that . 
When you get a sudden alarm , of the sort that I had got now , nine times out of ten the place you feel it in is your stomach . 
When you feel it in your stomach , your attention wanders , and you begin to fidget . 
I fidgeted silently in my place on the sand . 
I wanted a whiff of my pipe , and a turn at ROBINSON CRUSOE . 
CHAPTER VI Keeping my private sentiments to myself , I respectfully requested Mr. Franklin to go on . 
Mr. Franklin replied , Don't fidget , Betteredge , and went on . 
The facts here are really so extraordinary , that I doubt if I can trust my own language to do justice to them . 
I prefer trying to report Mr. Franklin's discoveries , as nearly as may be , in Mr. Franklin's own words . 
My father discovered that his brother in law was in possession of certain papers which were likely to be of service to him in his lawsuit . 
He called on the Colonel , on pretence of welcoming him back to England . 
The Colonel was not to be deluded in that way . 
You want something , he said , or you would never have compromised your reputation by calling on ME . 
My father saw that the one chance for him was to show his hand he admitted , at once , that he wanted the papers . 
The Colonel asked for a day to consider his answer . 
His answer came in the shape of a most extraordinary letter , which my friend the lawyer showed me . 
The Colonel began by saying that he wanted something of my father , and that he begged to propose an exchange of friendly services between them . 
Under these alarming circumstances , he had determined to place his Diamond in the keeping of another person . 
That person was not expected to run any risk . 
He might deposit the precious stone in any place especially guarded and set apart like a banker's or jeweller's strong room for the safe custody of valuables of high price . 
His main personal responsibility in the matter was to be of the passive kind . 
In the event of the date passing over without the note being received , the Colonel's silence might be taken as a sure token of the Colonel's death by murder . 
In that case , and in no other , certain sealed instructions relating to the disposal of the Diamond , and deposited with it , were to be opened , and followed implicitly . 
If my father chose to accept this strange charge , the Colonel's papers were at his disposal in return . 
What did your father do , sir ? I asked . 
Do ? says Mr. Franklin . 
I'll tell you what he did . 
He brought the invaluable faculty , called common sense , to bear on the Colonel's letter . 
The whole thing , he declared , was simply absurd . 
Somewhere in his Indian wanderings , the Colonel had picked up with some wretched crystal which he took for a diamond . 
No sensible person , in a similar position , could have viewed the matter in any other way . 
Nothing in this world , Betteredge , is probable unless it appeals to our own trumpery experience and we only believe in a romance when we see it in a newspaper . 
It was plain to me from this , that Mr. Franklin thought his father's notion about the Colonel hasty and wrong . 
What is your own private opinion about the matter , sir ? I asked . 
Let's finish the story of the Colonel first , says Mr. Franklin . 
There is a curious want of system , Betteredge , in the English mind and your question , my old friend , is an instance of it . 
the most slovenly people in the universe . 
So much , I thought to myself , for a foreign education ! He has learned that way of girding at us in France , I suppose . 
Mr. Franklin took up the lost thread , and went on . 
My father , he said , got the papers he wanted , and never saw his brother in law again from that time . 
Year after year , on the prearranged days , the prearranged letter came from the Colonel , and was opened by Mr. Bruff . 
That was all he ever wrote , and that came regularly to the day until some six or eight months since , when the form of the letter varied for the first time . 
It ran now Sir , They tell me I am dying . 
Come to me , and help me to make my will . 
Mr. Bruff went , and found him , in the little suburban villa , surrounded by its own grounds , in which he had lived alone , ever since he had left India . 
The will was a very simple matter . 
The Colonel had dissipated the greater part of his fortune in his chemical investigations . 
His will began and ended in three clauses , which he dictated from his bed , in perfect possession of his faculties . 
The first clause provided for the safe keeping and support of his animals . 
The second founded a professorship of experimental chemistry at a northern university . 
The third bequeathed the Moonstone as a birthday present to his niece , on condition that my father would act as executor . 
My father at first refused to act . 
I have got an extract , which you shall see presently . 
Don't be slovenly minded , Betteredge ! One thing at a time . 
You have heard about the Colonel's Will now you must hear what happened after the Colonel's death . 
It was formally necessary to have the Diamond valued , before the Will could be proved . 
All the jewellers consulted , at once confirmed the Colonel's assertion that he possessed one of the largest diamonds in the world . 
The question of accurately valuing it presented some serious difficulties . 
Even with this last serious draw back , however , the lowest of the various estimates given was twenty thousand pounds . 
Conceive my father's astonishment ! He had been within a hair's breadth of refusing to act as executor , and of allowing this magnificent jewel to be lost to the family . 
The interest he took in the matter now , induced him to open the sealed instructions which had been deposited with the Diamond . 
a clue to the nature of the conspiracy which threatened the Colonel's life . 
The sealed instructions , as I think , explain how it was that he died , after all , quietly in his bed . 
, my father was then directed to send the Moonstone secretly to Amsterdam . 
It was to be deposited in that city with a famous diamond cutter , and it was to be cut up into from four to six separate stones . 
Now , Betteredge , exert those sharp wits of yours , and observe the conclusion to which the Colonel's instructions point ! I instantly exerted my wits . 
They were of the slovenly English sort and they consequently muddled it all , until Mr. Franklin took them in hand , and pointed out what they ought to see . 
Remark , says Mr. Franklin , that the integrity of the Diamond , as a whole stone , is here artfully made dependent on the preservation from violence of the Colonel's life . 
He says instead , Kill me and the Diamond will be the Diamond no longer its identity will be destroyed . 
What does that mean ? Here I had a flash of the wonderful foreign brightness . 
I know , I said . 
It means lowering the value of the stone , and cheating the rogues in that way ! Nothing of the sort , says Mr. Franklin . 
I have inquired about that . 
If robbery for the purpose of gain was at the bottom of the conspiracy , the Colonel's instructions absolutely made the Diamond better worth stealing . 
Lord bless us , sir ! I burst out . 
That is my opinion , confirmed by a family paper which I have about me at this moment . 
I saw , now , why the appearance of the three Indian jugglers at our house had presented itself to Mr. Franklin in the light of a circumstance worth noting . 
I don't want to force my opinion on you , Mr. Franklin went on . 
But then I am an imaginative man and the butcher , the baker , and the tax gatherer , are not the only credible realities in existence to my mind . 
Let the guess I have made at the truth in this matter go for what it is worth , and let us get on to the only practical question that concerns us . 
Not a word he said escaped me . 
I was not very willing , when I discovered the story of the Moonstone , said Mr. Franklin , to be the means of bringing it here . 
But Mr. Bruff reminded me that somebody must put my cousin's legacy into my cousin's hands and that I might as well do it as anybody else . 
After taking the Diamond out of the bank , I fancied I was followed in the streets by a shabby , dark complexioned man . 
I went to my father's house to pick up my luggage , and found a letter there , which unexpectedly detained me in London . 
I went back to the bank with the Diamond , and thought I saw the shabby man again . 
by the morning instead of the afternoon train . 
is hocus pocus in my opinion , as it is in yours . 
We looked at each other , and then we looked at the tide , oozing in smoothly , higher and higher , over the Shivering Sand . 
What are you thinking of ? says Mr. Franklin , suddenly . 
I was thinking , sir , I answered , that I should like to shy the Diamond into the quicksand , and settle the question in THAT way . 
Mr. Franklin was the first to bring the talk back to the talk's proper purpose . 
He took an envelope out of his pocket , opened it , and handed to me the paper inside . 
Betteredge , he said , we must face the question of the Colonel's motive in leaving this legacy to his niece , for my aunt's sake . 
Bear in mind how Lady Verinder treated her brother from the time when he returned to England , to the time when he told you he should remember his niece's birthday . 
He gave me the extract from the Colonel's Will . 
The proceeds of the sale were , in that case , to be added to the money already left by the Will for the professorship of chemistry at the university in the north . 
I handed the paper back to Mr. Franklin , sorely troubled what to say to him . 
that the Colonel had died as wickedly as he had lived . 
I don't say the copy from his Will actually converted me from that opinion I only say it staggered me . 
God alone knows the truth . 
Mr. Franklin sat twisting and turning the extract from the Will in his fingers , as if he expected to squeeze the truth out of it in that manner . 
He altered quite remarkably , at the same time . 
From being brisk and bright , he now became , most unaccountably , a slow , solemn , and pondering young man . 
This question has two sides , he said . 
An Objective side , and a Subjective side . 
Which are we to take ? He had had a German education as well as a French . 
One of the two had been in undisturbed possession of him up to this time . 
And now the other was taking its place . 
It is one of my rules in life , never to notice what I don't understand . 
I steered a middle course between the Objective side and the Subjective side . 
In plain English I stared hard , and said nothing . 
Let's extract the inner meaning of this , says Mr. Franklin . 
Why did my uncle leave the Diamond to Rachel ? Why didn't he leave it to my aunt ? That's not beyond guessing , sir , at any rate , I said . 
Colonel Herncastle knew my lady well enough to know that she would have refused to accept any legacy that came to her from HIM . 
It does you great credit , Betteredge , to be able to take the Subjective view . 
But there's another mystery about the Colonel's legacy which is not accounted for yet . 
How are we to explain his only giving Rachel her birthday present conditionally on her mother being alive ? I don't want to slander a dead man , sir , I answered . 
Oh ! That's your interpretation of his motive , is it ? The Subjective interpretation again ! Have you ever been in Germany , Betteredge ? No , sir . 
There is a totally different explanation from yours , Betteredge , taking its rise in a Subjective Objective point of view . 
From all I can see , one interpretation is just as likely to be right as the other . 
Having brought matters to this pleasant and comforting issue , Mr. Franklin appeared to think that he had completed all that was required of him . 
He laid down flat on his back on the sand , and asked what was to be done next . 
You will do him no injustice , I think , if you conclude that the Italian side of him was uppermost now . 
I don't want to alarm my aunt without reason , he said . 
And I don't want to leave her without what may be a needful warning . 
If you were in my place , Betteredge , tell me , in one word , what would you do ? In one word , I told him Wait . 
With all my heart , says Mr. Franklin . 
How long ? I proceeded to explain myself . 
This is the twenty fifth of May , and the birthday is on the twenty first of June . 
We have got close on four weeks before us . 
Let's wait and see what happens in that time and let's warn my lady , or not , as the circumstances direct us . 
Perfect , Betteredge , as far as it goes ! says Mr. Franklin . 
But between this and the birthday , what's to be done with the Diamond ? What your father did with it , to be sure , sir ! I answered . 
Your father put it in the safe keeping of a bank in London . 
You put in the safe keeping of the bank at Frizinghall . 
If I were you , sir , I added , I would ride straight away with it to Frizinghall before the ladies come back . 
The prospect of doing something and , what is more , of doing that something on a horse brought Mr. Franklin up like lightning from the flat of his back . 
He sprang to his feet , and pulled me up , without ceremony , on to mine . 
Betteredge , you are worth your weight in gold , he said . 
Come along , and saddle the best horse in the stables directly . 
, and instantly summoned me to tell her all that had passed at the conference between Mr. Franklin and me . 
Under present circumstances , the one thing to be done was to clap the extinguisher upon Penelope's curiosity on the spot . 
The afternoon wore on , and my lady and Miss Rachel came back . 
Needless to say how astonished they were , when they heard that Mr. Franklin Blake had arrived , and had gone off again on horseback . 
Needless also to say , that THEY asked awkward questions directly , and that the foreign politics and the falling asleep in the sun wouldn't serve a second time over with THEM . 
Being at the end of my invention , I said Mr. Franklin's arrival by the early train was entirely attributable to one of Mr. Franklin's freaks . 
Having got over my difficulties with the ladies , I found more difficulties waiting for me when I went back to my own room . 
In came Penelope with the natural sweetness of women to kiss and make it up again and with the natural curiosity of women to ask another question . 
This time she only wanted me to tell her what was the matter with our second housemaid , Rosanna Spearman . 
After leaving Mr. Franklin and me at the Shivering Sand , Rosanna , it appeared , had returned to the house in a very unaccountable state of mind . 
all the colours of the rainbow . 
She had been merry without reason , and sad without reason . 
She had been surprised , smiling , and scribbling Mr. Franklin's name inside her workbox . 
She had been surprised again , crying and looking at her deformed shoulder in the glass . 
Penelope could speak to the girl's inquisitiveness as genuine , when she asked questions about Mr. Franklin . 
Father ! says Penelope , quite seriously , there's only one explanation of it . 
Rosanna has fallen in love with Mr. Franklin Blake at first sight ! You have heard of beautiful young ladies falling in love at first sight , and have thought it natural enough . 
Penelope resented my merriment , in rather a strange way . 
I never knew you cruel before , father , she said , very gently , and went out . 
My girl's words fell upon me like a splash of cold water . 
I was savage with myself , for feeling uneasy in myself the moment she had spoken them but so it was . 
We will change the subject , if you please . 
I am sorry I drifted into writing about it and not without reason , as you will see when we have gone on together a little longer . 
The evening came , and the dressing bell for dinner rang , before Mr. Franklin returned from Frizinghall . 
I took his hot water up to his room myself , expecting to hear , after this extraordinary delay , that something had happened . 
He had not met with the Indians , either going or returning . 
He had deposited the Moonstone in the bank describing it merely as a valuable of great price and he had got the receipt for it safe in his pocket . 
I went down stairs , feeling that this was rather a flat ending , after all our excitement about the Diamond earlier in the day . 
How the meeting between Mr. Franklin and his aunt and cousin went off , is more than I can tell you . 
I would have given something to have waited at table that day . 
was letting down my dignity in the eyes of the other servants a thing which my lady considered me quite prone enough to do already , without seeking occasions for it . 
The news brought to me from the upper regions , that evening , came from Penelope and the footman . 
Towards midnight , I went round the house to lock up , accompanied by my second in command , as usual . 
The night was still and close , and the moon was at the full in the heavens . 
As the house stood , the terrace side was the dark side but the broad moonlight showed fair on the gravel walk that ran along the next side to the terrace . 
Looking this way , after looking up at the sky , I saw the shadow of a person in the moonlight thrown forward from behind the corner of the house . 
Being old and sly , I forbore to call out but being also , unfortunately , old and heavy , my feet betrayed me on the gravel . 
From the shrubbery , they could easily make their way , over our fence into the road . 
If I had been forty years younger , I might have had a chance of catching them before they got clear of our premises . 
As it was , I went back to set a going a younger pair of legs than mine . 
Without disturbing anybody , Samuel and I got a couple of guns , and went all round the house and through the shrubbery . 
Having made sure that no persons were lurking about anywhere in our grounds , we turned back . 
Picking the object up , I discovered it was a small bottle , containing a thick sweet smelling liquor , as black as ink . 
I said nothing to Samuel . 
CHAPTER VIII Here , for one moment , I find it necessary to call a halt . 
For the greater part of that time the days passed , and brought nothing with them worth recording . 
This said , we may now go on again beginning , of course , with the bottle of sweet smelling ink which I found on the gravel walk at night . 
I showed Mr. Franklin this article of jugglery , and told him what I have already told you . 
and who call it by a French name , signifying something like brightness of sight . 
Do you think they'll try again , sir ? I asked . 
It depends , says Mr. Franklin , on what the boy can really do . 
If he can see the Diamond through the iron safe of the bank at Frizinghall , we shall be troubled with no more visits from the Indians for the present . 
If he can't , we shall have another chance of catching them in the shrubbery , before many more nights are over our heads . 
I waited pretty confidently for that latter chance but , strange to relate , it never came . 
With this report of the proceedings on either side , ends all that I have to say about the Indians for the present . 
There are reasons for taking particular notice here of the occupation that amused them . 
You will find it has a bearing on something that is still to come . 
Gentlefolks in general have a very awkward rock ahead in life the rock ahead of their own idleness . 
Sometimes , again , you see them occupied for hours together in spoiling a pretty flower with pointed instruments , out of a stupid curiosity to know what the flower is made of . 
As for Mr. Franklin and Miss Rachel , they tortured nothing , I am glad to say . 
They simply confined themselves to making a mess and all they spoilt , to do them justice , was the panelling of a door . 
Mr. Franklin's universal genius , dabbling in everything , dabbled in what he called decorative painting . 
He had invented , he informed us , a new mixture to moisten paint with , which he described as a vehicle . 
What it was made of , I don't know . 
What it did , I can tell you in two words it stank . 
They began with the inside of the door . 
Mr. Franklin scraped off all the nice varnish with pumice stone , and made what he described as a surface to work on . 
Viewed as work , this decoration was slow to do , and dirty to deal with . 
But our young lady and gentleman never seemed to tire of it . 
The next date worthy of notice is Sunday the fourth of June . 
Some of us said there would be a wedding in the house before the summer was over . 
whether her bridegroom would be Mr. Franklin Blake . 
That Mr. Franklin was in love , on his side , nobody who saw and heard him could doubt . 
The difficulty was to fathom Miss Rachel . 
Let me do myself the honour of making you acquainted with her after which , I will leave you to fathom for yourself if you can . 
My young lady's eighteenth birthday was the birthday now coming , on the twenty first of June . 
, and if you have no particular prejudice in favour of size , I answer for Miss Rachel as one of the prettiest girls your eyes ever looked on . 
She was small and slim , but all in fine proportion from top to toe . 
were in her flesh and not in her clothes . 
Her hair was the blackest I ever saw . 
Her eyes matched her hair . 
Her nose was not quite large enough , I admit . 
was as warm as the sun itself , with this great advantage over the sun , that it was always in nice order to look at . 
To put it seriously , my dear pretty Miss Rachel , possessing a host of graces and attractions , had one defect , which strict impartiality compels me to acknowledge . 
, Miss Rachel always went on a way of her own , sufficient for herself in the joys and sorrows of her life . 
Over and over again I have heard my lady say , Rachel's best friend and Rachel's worst enemy are , one and the other Rachel herself . 
Add one thing more to this , and I have done . 
With all her secrecy , and self will , there was not so much as the shadow of anything false in her . 
I never remember her breaking her word I never remember her saying No , and meaning Yes . 
Nobody ever knew her to confess to it , when the thing was found out , and she was charged with it afterwards . 
But nobody ever knew her to lie about it , either . 
Self willed devilish self willed sometimes I grant but the finest creature , nevertheless , that ever walked the ways of this lower world . 
Perhaps you think you see a certain contradiction here ? In that case , a word in your ear . 
Study your wife closely , for the next four and twenty hours . 
If your good lady doesn't exhibit something in the shape of a contradiction in that time , Heaven help you ! you have married a monster . 
I have now brought you acquainted with Miss Rachel , which you will find puts us face to face , next , with the question of that young lady's matrimonial views . 
On June the twelfth , an invitation from my mistress was sent to a gentleman in London , to come and help to keep Miss Rachel's birthday . 
This was the fortunate individual on whom I believed her heart to be privately set ! Like Mr. Franklin , he was a cousin of hers . 
His name was Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite . 
my lady's second sister , I say , had a disappointment in love and taking a husband afterwards , on the neck or nothing principle , made what they call a misalliance . 
There was terrible work in the family when the Honourable Caroline insisted on marrying plain Mr. Ablewhite , the banker at Frizinghall . 
He was very rich and very respectable , and he begot a prodigious large family all in his favour , so far . 
But he had presumed to raise himself from a low station in the world and that was against him . 
However , Time and the progress of modern enlightenment put things right and the mis alliance passed muster very well . 
The Ablewhites lived in a fine house and grounds , a little out of Frizinghall . 
Very worthy people , and greatly respected in the neighbourhood . 
In the first place , Mr. Godfrey was , in point of size , the finest man by far of the two . 
He was a barrister by profession a ladies' man by temperament and a good Samaritan by choice . 
Female benevolence and female destitution could do nothing without him . 
I do suppose this was the most accomplished philanthropist that England ever produced . 
As a speaker at charitable meetings the like of him for drawing your tears and your money was not easy to find . 
He was quite a public character . 
The last time I was in London , my mistress gave me two treats . 
She sent me to the theatre to see a dancing woman who was all the rage and she sent me to Exeter Hall to hear Mr. Godfrey . 
The lady did it , with a band of music . 
The gentleman did it , with a handkerchief and a glass of water . 
Crowds at the performance with the legs . 
Ditto at the performance with the tongue . 
the simplest and pleasantest and easiest to please you ever met with . 
What chance had Mr. Franklin what chance had anybody of average reputation and capacities against such a man as this ? On the fourteenth , came Mr. Godfrey's answer . 
He accepted my mistress's invitation , from the Wednesday of the birthday to the evening of Friday when his duties to the Ladies' Charities would oblige him to return to town . 
He also enclosed a copy of verses on what he elegantly called his cousin's natal day . 
Miss Rachel has led you off on a false scent , my dear , I replied but MY nose is not so easily mystified . 
Wait till Mr. Ablewhite's verses are followed by Mr. Ablewhite himself . 
My daughter replied , that Mr. Franklin might strike in , and try his luck , before the verses were followed by the poet . 
In favour of this view , I must acknowledge that Mr. Franklin left no chance untried of winning Miss Rachel's good graces . 
, could never fail of producing the right effect on Miss Rachel backed up , too , as it was , by the decorating work every day on the door . 
He would be looking on , in reality , before long that was my opinion of it . 
June the sixteenth brought an event which made Mr. Franklin's chance look , to my mind , a worse chance than ever . 
A strange gentleman , speaking English with a foreign accent , came that morning to the house , and asked to see Mr. Franklin Blake on business . 
She probably hinted something about it next to her daughter . 
The next day , for the first time , nothing was done towards the decoration of the door . 
I suspect some imprudence of Mr. Franklin's on the Continent with a woman or a debt at the bottom of it had followed him to England . 
But that is all guesswork . 
In this case , not only Mr. Franklin , but my lady too , for a wonder , left me in the dark . 
On the seventeenth , to all appearance , the cloud passed away again . 
They returned to their decorating work on the door , and seemed to be as good friends as ever . 
If Penelope was to be believed , Mr. Franklin had seized the opportunity of the reconciliation to make an offer to Miss Rachel , and had neither been accepted nor refused . 
that her young mistress had fought Mr. Franklin off by declining to believe that he was in earnest , and had then secretly regretted treating him in that way afterwards . 
What my daughter told me , on the present occasion , was , as I suspected , more what she wished than what she really knew . 
On the nineteenth another event happened . 
We had the doctor in the house professionally . 
He was summoned to prescribe for a person whom I have had occasion to present to you in these pages our second housemaid , Rosanna Spearman . 
seemed to be just as absurd as ever . 
For example , the girl constantly put herself in Mr. Franklin's way very slyly and quietly , but she did it . 
He took about as much notice of her as he took of the cat it never seemed to occur to him to waste a look on Rosanna's plain face . 
The poor thing's appetite , never much , fell away dreadfully and her eyes in the morning showed plain signs of waking and crying at night . 
One day Penelope made an awkward discovery , which we hushed up on the spot . 
My lady noticed the change , and asked me what I thought about it . 
I tried to screen the girl by answering that I thought she was out of health and it ended in the doctor being sent for , as already mentioned , on the nineteenth . 
He said it was her nerves , and doubted if she was fit for service . 
My lady offered to remove her for change of air to one of our farms , inland . 
As the event proved , and as you will soon see , this was the worst advice I could have given . 
If I could only have looked a little way into the future , I would have taken Rosanna Spearman out of the house , then and there , with my own hand . 
On the twentieth , there came a note from Mr. Godfrey . 
He had arranged to stop at Frizinghall that night , having occasion to consult his father on business . 
On the afternoon of the next day , he and his two eldest sisters would ride over to us on horseback , in good time before dinner . 
An elegant little casket in China accompanied the note , presented to Miss Rachel , with her cousin's love and best wishes . 
Mr. Franklin had only given her a plain locket not worth half the money . 
My daughter Penelope , nevertheless such is the obstinacy of women still backed him to win . 
Cheer up ! I'll ease you with another new chapter here and , what is more , that chapter shall take you straight into the thick of the story . 
CHAPTER IX June twenty first , the day of the birthday , was cloudy and unsettled at sunrise , but towards noon it cleared up bravely . 
I follow the plan adopted by the Queen in opening Parliament namely , the plan of saying much the same thing regularly every year . 
is looked for as eagerly as if nothing of the kind had ever been heard before . 
When it is delivered , and turns out not to be the novelty anticipated , though they grumble a little , they look forward hopefully to something newer next year . 
An easy people to govern , in the Parliament and in the Kitchen that's the moral of it . 
But certain it is , that Mr. Franklin failed to show himself at his best on the morning of the birthday . 
He was in twenty different minds about the Diamond in as many minutes . 
For my part , I stuck fast by the plain facts a we knew them . 
That was my view of the matter and , twist and turn it as he might , he was forced in the end to make it his view too . 
This settled , our young gentleman went back to Miss Rachel . 
, and trying vainly to get the two artists away from their work . 
, and cleaned themselves of their mess . 
But they had done what they wanted they had finished the door on the birthday , and proud enough they were of it . 
If I add that Penelope ended her part of the morning's work by being sick in the back kitchen , it is in no unfriendly spirit towards the vehicle . 
To fetch the Moonstone , as was privately known to himself and to me . 
Having seen to the wine , and reviewed my men and women who were to wait at dinner , I retired to collect myself before the company came . 
A whiff of you know what , and a turn at a certain book which I have had occasion to mention in these pages , composed me , body and mind . 
Mr. Godfrey struck me , strangely enough , as being like Mr. Franklin in this respect that he did not seem to be in his customary spirits . 
He kindly shook hands with me as usual , and was most politely glad to see his old friend Betteredge wearing so well . 
However , the two Miss Ablewhites were cheerful enough for twenty , which more than restored the balance . 
They were nearly as big as their brother spanking , yellow haired , rosy lasses , overflowing with super abundant flesh and blood bursting from head to foot with health and spirits . 
, I declare they bounced on the ground as if they were made of india rubber . 
Bouncers that's what I call them . 
Under cover of the noise made by the young ladies , I had an opportunity of saying a private word to Mr. Franklin in the hall . 
Have you got the Diamond safe , sir ? He nodded , and tapped the breast pocket of his coat . 
Have you seen anything of the Indians ? Not a glimpse . 
With that answer , he asked for my lady , and , hearing she was in the small drawing room , went there straight . 
The bell rang , before he had been a minute in the room , and Penelope was sent to tell Miss Rachel that Mr. Franklin Blake wanted to speak to her . 
Crossing the hall , about half an hour afterwards , I was brought to a sudden standstill by an outbreak of screams from the small drawing room . 
I can't say I was at all alarmed for I recognised in the screams the favourite large O of the Miss Ablewhites . 
to discover whether anything serious had really happened . 
There stood Miss Rachel at the table , like a person fascinated , with the Colonel's unlucky Diamond in her hand . 
She faced me , when I asked for my instructions and I saw the family frown gathering over her eyes , and the family temper twitching at the corners of her mouth . 
Come to my room in half an hour , she answered . 
I shall have something to say to you then . 
With those words she went out . 
It was plain enough that she was posed by the same difficulty which had posed Mr. Franklin and me in our conference at the Shivering Sand . 
Before I could leave the room in my turn , Miss Rachel , always considerate to the old servant who had been in the house when she was born , stopped me . 
Look , Gabriel ! she said , and flashed the jewel before my eyes in a ray of sunlight that poured through the window . 
When you looked down into the stone , you looked into a yellow deep that drew your eyes into it so that they saw nothing else . 
It seemed unfathomable this jewel , that you could hold between your finger and thumb , seemed unfathomable as the heavens themselves . 
No wonder Miss Rachel was fascinated no wonder her cousins screamed . 
The Diamond laid such a hold on ME that I burst out with as large an O as the Bouncers themselves . 
The only one of us who kept his senses was Mr. Godfrey . 
All he did , however , was to remind me of the dinner . 
I hobbled off to my army of waiters downstairs . 
Something like a stock of love to draw on THERE ! Mr. Franklin was a perfect savage by comparison with him . 
At the end of half an hour , I presented myself , as directed , in my lady's room . 
On my way back to my own part of the house , I was encountered by Mr. Franklin . 
He wanted to know if I had seen anything of his cousin Rachel . 
I had seen nothing of her . 
Could I tell him where his cousin Godfrey was ? I didn't know but I began to suspect that cousin Godfrey might not be far away from cousin Rachel . 
Mr. Franklin's suspicions apparently took the same turn . 
He tugged hard at his beard , and went and shut himself up in the library with a bang of the door that had a world of meaning in it . 
I was interrupted no more in the business of preparing for the birthday dinner till it was time for me to smarten myself up for receiving the company . 
My girl was in high spirits , and I saw she had something to say to me . 
She gave me a kiss on the top of my bald head , and whispered , News for you , father ! Miss Rachel has refused him . 
Who's 'HIM' ? I asked . 
The ladies' committee man , father , says Penelope . 
But my daughter happened to be improving the tie of my cravat at that moment , and the whole strength of her feelings found its way into her fingers . 
I never was more nearly strangled in my life . 
I saw him take her away alone into the rose garden , says Penelope . 
And I waited behind the holly to see how they came back . 
They had gone out arm in arm , both laughing . 
They came back , walking separate , as grave as grave could be , and looking straight away from each other in a manner which there was no mistaking . 
But my daughter had got the hair brush by this time , and the whole strength of her feelings had passed into THAT . 
If you are bald , you will understand how she sacrificed me . 
If you are not , skip this bit , and thank God you have got something in the way of a defence between your hair brush and your head . 
Just on the other side of the holly , Penelope went on , Mr. Godfrey came to a standstill . 
'You prefer , says he , 'that I should stop here as if nothing had happened ? Miss Rachel turned on him like lightning . 
'You have accepted my mother's invitation , she said 'and you are here to meet her guests . 
Unless you wish to make a scandal in the house , you will remain , of course ! She went on a few steps , and then seemed to relent a little . 
'Let us forget what has passed , Godfrey , she said , 'and let us remain cousins still . 
She gave him her hand . 
He kissed it , which I should have considered taking a liberty , and then she left him . 
Awkward enough , I'm sure . 
And the end of it is , father , what I told you all along , cries Penelope , finishing me off with a last scarification , the hottest of all . 
Before I could say a word , the crash of carriage wheels outside struck in , and stopped me . 
The first of the dinner company had come . 
I put on my coat , and looked in the glass . 
My head was as red as a lobster but , in other respects , I was as nicely dressed for the ceremonies of the evening as a man need be . 
I got into the hall just in time to announce the two first of the guests . 
You needn't feel particularly interested about them . 
Only the philanthropist's father and mother Mr. and Mrs. Ablewhite . 
CHAPTER X One on the top of the other the rest of the company followed the Ablewhites , till we had the whole tale of them complete . 
Including the family , they were twenty four in all . 
It was a noble sight to see , when they were settled in their places round the dinner table , and the Rector of Frizinghall rose and said grace . 
There is no need to worry you with a list of the guests . 
You will meet none of them a second time in my part of the story , at any rate with the exception of two . 
Those two sat on either side of Miss Rachel , who , as queen of the day , was naturally the great attraction of the party . 
she wore her wonderful birthday present , which eclipsed all the rest the Moonstone . 
Everybody wondered at the prodigious size and beauty of the Diamond , as a matter of course . 
The guest on her left was Mr. Candy , our doctor at Frizinghall . 
In society he was constantly making mistakes , and setting people unintentionally by the ears together . 
by a kind of instinct , and proving to be generally right where more carefully conducted doctors turned out to be wrong . 
What HE said about the Diamond to Miss Rachel was said , as usual , by way of a mystification or joke . 
He gravely entreated her to let him take it home and burn it . 
This was a long , lean , wiry , brown , silent man . 
He had a weary look , and a very steady , attentive eye . 
Except what he said to Miss Rachel about her jewel , I doubt if he spoke six words or drank so much as a single glass of wine , all through the dinner . 
The Moonstone was the only object that interested him in the smallest degree . 
The fame of it seemed to have reached him , in some of those perilous Indian places where his wanderings had lain . 
A Hindoo diamond is sometimes part of a Hindoo religion . 
I know a certain city , and a certain temple in that city , where , dressed as you are now , your life would not be worth five minutes' purchase . 
Miss Rachel , safe in England , was quite delighted to hear of her danger in India . 
As the dinner got on , I became aware , little by little , that this festival was not prospering as other like festivals had prospered before it . 
Nine times out of ten they changed their minds out of regard for their old original Betteredge , they were pleased to say but all to no purpose . 
There were gaps of silence in the talk , as the dinner got on , that made me feel personally uncomfortable . 
When they did use their tongues again , they used them innocently , in the most unfortunate manner and to the worst possible purpose . 
Mr. Candy , the doctor , for instance , said more unlucky things than I ever knew him to say before . 
One of our ladies present at dinner was worthy Mrs. Threadgall , widow of the late Professor of that name . 
Talking of her deceased husband perpetually , this good lady never mentioned to strangers that he WAS deceased . 
She thought , I suppose , that every able bodied adult in England ought to know as much as that . 
Anatomy she described as the Professor's favourite recreation in his leisure hours . 
As ill luck would have it , Mr. Candy , sitting opposite , heard her . 
Being the most polite of men , he seized the opportunity of assisting the Professor's anatomical amusements on the spot . 
They have got some remarkably fine skeletons lately at the College of Surgeons , says Mr. Candy , across the table , in a loud cheerful voice . 
I strongly recommend the Professor , ma'am , when he next has an hour to spare , to pay them a visit . 
You might have heard a pin fall . 
I was behind Mrs. Threadgall at the time , plying her confidentially with a glass of hock . 
She dropped her head , and said in a very low voice , My beloved husband is no more . 
Unluckily Mr. Candy , hearing nothing , and miles away from suspecting the truth , went on across the table louder and politer than ever . 
Mrs. Threadgall dropped her head right into her tucker , and , in a lower voice still , repeated the solemn words , My beloved husband is no more . 
I winked hard at Mr. Candy across the table . 
Miss Rachel touched his arm . 
My lady looked unutterable things at him . 
Quite useless ! On he went , with a cordiality that there was no stopping anyhow . 
I shall be delighted , says he , to send the Professor my card , if you will oblige me by mentioning his present address . 
His present address , sir , is THE GRAVE , says Mrs. Threadgall , suddenly losing her temper , and speaking with an emphasis and fury that made the glasses ring again . 
The Professor has been dead these ten years . 
Oh , good heavens ! says Mr. Candy . 
So much for Mr. Candy . 
The rest of them were nearly as provoking in their different ways as the doctor himself . 
When they ought to have spoken , they didn't speak or when they did speak they were perpetually at cross purposes . 
Mr. Godfrey , though so eloquent in public , declined to exert himself in private . 
Whether he was sulky , or whether he was bashful , after his discomfiture in the rose garden , I can't say . 
He kept all his talk for the private ear of the lady who sat next to him . 
What they said about their Charities I didn't hear . 
And earth was heaven a little the worse for wear . 
And heaven was earth , done up again to look like new . 
The dispute between them began in Mr. Franklin being led I forget how to acknowledge that he had latterly slept very badly at night . 
Mr. Candy thereupon told him that his nerves were all out of order and that he ought to go through a course of medicine immediately . 
Mr. Franklin replied that a course of medicine , and a course of groping in the dark , meant , in his estimation , one and the same thing . 
This necessary act of authority put the last extinguisher on the spirits of the company . 
The talk spurted up again here and there , for a minute or two at a time but there was a miserable lack of life and sparkle in it . 
possessed that dinner party and it was a relief to everybody when my mistress rose , and gave the ladies the signal to leave the gentlemen over their wine . 
, when there came a sound from the terrace which , startled me out of my company manners on the instant . 
Mr. Franklin and I looked at each other it was the sound of the Indian drum . 
But , as ill luck would have it , the two Bouncers were beforehand with me . 
They whizzed out on to the terrace like a couple of skyrockets , wild to see the Indians exhibit their tricks . 
The other ladies followed the gentlemen came out on their side . 
Before you could say , Lord bless us ! the rogues were making their salaams and the Bouncers were kissing the pretty little boy . 
Mr. Franklin got on one side of Miss Rachel , and I put myself behind her . 
The first thing that I remember noticing was the sudden appearance on the scene of the Indian traveller , Mr. Murthwaite . 
Skirting the half circle in which the gentlefolks stood or sat , he came quietly behind the jugglers and spoke to them on a sudden in the language of their own country . 
The next moment they were bowing and salaaming to him in their most polite and snaky way . 
After a few words in the unknown tongue had passed on either side , Mr. Murthwaite withdrew as quietly as he had approached . 
The chief Indian , who acted as interpreter , thereupon wheeled about again towards the gentlefolks . 
I noticed that the fellow's coffee coloured face had turned grey since Mr. Murthwaite had spoken to him . 
He bowed to my lady , and informed her that the exhibition was over . 
The Bouncers , indescribably disappointed , burst out with a loud O ! directed against Mr. Murthwaite for stopping the performance . 
The chief Indian laid his hand humbly on his breast , and said a second time that the juggling was over . 
The little boy went round with the hat . 
The ladies withdrew to the drawing room and the gentlemen returned to their wine . 
I and the footman followed the Indians , and saw them safe off the premises . 
walking slowly up and down among the trees . 
Mr. Franklin beckoned to me to join them . 
This , says Mr. Franklin , presenting me to the great traveller , is Gabriel Betteredge , the old servant and friend of our family of whom I spoke to you just now . 
Tell him , if you please , what you have just told me . 
Mr. Murthwaite took his cheroot out of his mouth , and leaned , in his weary way , against the trunk of a tree . 
Mr. Betteredge , he began , those three Indians are no more jugglers than you and I are . 
Here was a new surprise ! I naturally asked the traveller if he had ever met with the Indians before . 
Never , says Mr. Murthwaite but I know what Indian juggling really is . 
All you have seen to night is a very bad and clumsy imitation of it . 
Unless , after long experience , I am utterly mistaken , those men are high caste Brahmins . 
I charged them with being disguised , and you saw how it told on them , clever as the Hindoo people are in concealing their feelings . 
There is a mystery about their conduct that I can't explain . 
They have doubly sacrificed their caste first , in crossing the sea secondly , in disguising themselves as jugglers . 
In the land they live in that is a tremendous sacrifice to make . 
Mr. Murthwaite went on with his cheroot . 
Even the immovable Mr. Murthwaite was so interested in what he heard , that he let his cheroot go out . 
It was Mr. Franklin's turn to be astonished now . 
Is it really as serious as that ? he asked . 
In my opinion it is , answered Mr. Murthwaite . 
Those men will wait their opportunity with the patience of cats , and will use it with the ferocity of tigers . 
How you have escaped them I can't imagine , says the eminent traveller , lighting his cheroot again , and staring hard at Mr. Franklin . 
You have been carrying the Diamond backwards and forwards , here and in London , and you are still a living man ! Let us try and account for it . 
It was daylight , both times , I suppose , when you took the jewel out of the bank in London ? Broad daylight , says Mr. Franklin . 
And plenty of people in the streets ? Plenty . 
You settled , of course , to arrive at Lady Verinder's house at a certain time ? It's a lonely country between this and the station . 
Did you keep your appointment ? No. I arrived four hours earlier than my appointment . 
I beg to congratulate you again ! Did you bring it back here alone ? No. I happened to ride back with my cousins and the groom . 
You are a lucky man . 
This sort of thing didn't at all square with my English ideas . 
Do you care much for the ashes left in your pipe when you empty it ? No , sir . 
In the country those men came from , they care just as much about killing a man , as you care about emptying the ashes out of your pipe . 
If a thousand lives stood between them and the getting back of their Diamond and if they thought they could destroy those lives without discovery they would take them all . 
The sacrifice of caste is a serious thing in India , if you like . 
The sacrifice of life is nothing at all . 
I expressed my opinion upon this , that they were a set of murdering thieves . 
Mr. Murthwaite expressed HIS opinion that they were a wonderful people . 
Mr. Franklin , expressing no opinion at all , brought us back to the matter in hand . 
They have seen the Moonstone on Miss Verinder's dress , he said . 
What is to be done ? What your uncle threatened to do , answered Mr. Murthwaite . 
Colonel Herncastle understood the people he had to deal with . 
to be cut up at Amsterdam . 
Make half a dozen diamonds of it , instead of one . 
There is an end of its sacred identity as The Moonstone and there is an end of the conspiracy . 
Mr. Franklin turned to me . 
There is no help for it , he said . 
We must speak to Lady Verinder to morrow . 
What about to night , sir ? I asked . 
Suppose the Indians come back ? Mr. Murthwaite answered me before Mr. Franklin could speak . 
The Indians won't risk coming back to night , he said . 
The direct way is hardly ever the way they take to anything let alone a matter like this , in which the slightest mistake might be fatal to their reaching their end . 
But suppose the rogues are bolder than you think , sir ? I persisted . 
In that case , says Mr. Murthwaite , let the dogs loose . 
Have you got any big dogs in the yard ? Two , sir . 
A mastiff and a bloodhound . 
In the present emergency , Mr. Betteredge , the mastiff and the bloodhound have one great merit they are not likely to be troubled with your scruples about the sanctity of human life . 
The strumming of the piano reached us from the drawing room , as he fired that shot at me . 
He threw away his cheroot , and took Mr. Franklin's arm , to go back to the ladies . 
I noticed that the sky was clouding over fast , as I followed them to the house . 
Mr. Murthwaite noticed it too . 
I went into my own little room , and sat down in my chair in a perspiration , and wondered helplessly what was to be done next . 
In this anxious frame of mind , other men might have ended by working themselves up into a fever I ended in a different way . 
I lit my pipe , and took a turn at ROBINSON CRUSOE . 
came in with her report from the drawing room . 
She had left the Bouncers singing a duet words beginning with a large O , and music to correspond . 
She had observed that my lady made mistakes in her game of whist for the first time in our experience of her . 
She had seen the great traveller asleep in a corner . 
Finally , she had missed Mr. Candy , the doctor , who had mysteriously disappeared from the drawing room , and had then mysteriously returned , and entered into conversation with Mr. Godfrey . 
Upon the whole , things were prospering better than the experience of the dinner gave us any right to expect . 
If we could only hold on for another hour , old Father Time would bring up their carriages , and relieve us of them altogether . 
Everything wears off in this world and even the comforting effect of ROBINSON CRUSOE wore off , after Penelope left me . 
I got fidgety again , and resolved on making a survey of the grounds before the rain came . 
Instead of taking the footman , whose nose was human , and therefore useless in any emergency , I took the bloodhound with me . 
HIS nose for a stranger was to be depended on . 
We went all round the premises , and out into the road and returned as wise as we went , having discovered no such thing as a lurking human creature anywhere . 
The arrival of the carriages was the signal for the arrival of the rain . 
It poured as if it meant to pour all night . 
With the exception of the doctor , whose gig was waiting for him , the rest of the company went home snugly , under cover , in close carriages . 
I told Mr. Candy that I was afraid he would get wet through . 
He told me , in return , that he wondered I had arrived at my time of life , without knowing that a doctor's skin was waterproof . 
So he drove away in the rain , laughing over his own little joke and so we got rid of our dinner company . 
The next thing to tell is the story of the night . 
My lady and Miss Rachel came out of the drawing room , followed by the two gentlemen . 
Mr. Godfrey had some brandy and soda water , Mr. Franklin took nothing . 
He sat down , looking dead tired the talking on this birthday occasion had , I suppose , been too much for him . 
My lady , turning round to wish them good night , looked hard at the wicked Colonel's legacy shining in her daughter's dress . 
First , she declared she didn't know where to put the Diamond . 
Then she said , on her dressing table , of course , along with her other things . 
Then she remembered that the Diamond might take to shining of itself , with its awful moony light in the dark and that would terrify her in the dead of night . 
Having let her little flow of nonsense run on as far as that point , her mother interposed and stopped her . 
My dear ! your Indian cabinet has no lock to it , says my lady . 
She next turned to Miss Rachel , and kissed her . 
Why not let ME keep the Diamond for you to night ? she asked . 
Miss Rachel received that proposal as she might , ten years since , have received a proposal to part her from a new doll . 
My lady saw there was no reasoning with her that night . 
Come into my room , Rachel , the first thing to morrow morning , she said . 
I shall have something to say to you . 
With those last words she left us slowly thinking her own thoughts , and , to all appearance , not best pleased with the way by which they were leading her . 
Miss Rachel was the next to say good night . 
She shook hands first with Mr. Godfrey , who was standing at the other end of the hall , looking at a picture . 
Then she turned back to Mr. Franklin , still sitting weary and silent in a corner . 
What words passed between them I can't say . 
This incident staggered me a little in the reliance I had previously felt on my own judgment . 
I began to think that Penelope might be right about the state of her young lady's affections , after all . 
As soon as Miss Rachel left him eyes to see with , Mr. Franklin noticed me . 
His variable humour , shifting about everything , had shifted about the Indians already . 
Betteredge , he said , I'm half inclined to think I took Mr. Murthwaite too seriously , when we had that talk in the shrubbery . 
All right , says Mr. Franklin . 
We'll see what is to be done to morrow . 
I am not at all disposed to alarm my aunt , Betteredge , without a very pressing reason for it . 
Mr. Godfrey , walking towards us from the other end of the hall , backed me . 
He pressed Mr. Franklin , in the friendliest manner , to take something , before he went to bed . 
, and their rivalry for the best place in Miss Rachel's good graces , seemed to have set no serious difference between them . 
But there ! they were both good tempered , and both men of the world . 
And there is certainly this merit in people of station , that they are not nearly so quarrelsome among each other as people of no station at all . 
Mr. Franklin declined the brandy and water , and went up stairs with Mr. Godfrey , their rooms being next door to each other . 
On the landing , however , either his cousin persuaded him , or he veered about and changed his mind as usual . 
Perhaps I may want it in the night , he called down to me . 
Send up some brandy and water into my room . 
I sent up Samuel with the brandy and water and then went out and unbuckled the dogs' collars . 
As I went into the house I noticed signs in the sky which betokened a break in the weather for the better . 
For the present , it still poured heavily , and the ground was in a perfect sop . 
Samuel and I went all over the house , and shut up as usual . 
I examined everything myself , and trusted nothing to my deputy on this occasion . 
All was safe and fast when I rested my old bones in bed , between midnight and one in the morning . 
The worries of the day had been a little too much for me , I suppose . 
At any rate , I had a touch of Mr. Franklin's malady that night . 
It was sunrise before I fell off at last into a sleep . 
All the time I lay awake the house was as quiet as the grave . 
Not a sound stirred but the splash of the rain , and the sighing of the wind among the trees as a breeze sprang up with the morning . 
About half past seven I woke , and opened my window on a fine sunshiny day . 
The clock had struck eight , and I was just going out to chain up the dogs again , when I heard a sudden whisking of petticoats on the stairs behind me . 
I turned about , and there was Penelope flying down after me like mad . 
Father ! she screamed , come up stairs , for God's sake ! THE DIAMOND IS GONE ! Are you out of your mind ? I asked her . 
Gone , nobody knows how ! Come up and see . 
She dragged me after her into our young lady's sitting room , which opened into her bedroom . 
There , on the threshold of her bedroom door , stood Miss Rachel , almost as white in the face as the white dressinggown that clothed her . 
There also stood the two doors of the Indian cabinet , wide open . 
One , of the drawers inside was pulled out as far as it would go . 
I myself saw Miss Rachel put the Diamond into that drawer last night . 
I went to the cabinet . 
Is this true , miss ? I asked . 
Before we knew which way to turn next , my lady came in , hearing my voice in her daughter's sittingroom , and wondering what had happened . 
The news of the loss of the Diamond seemed to petrify her . 
She went straight to Miss Rachel's bedroom , and insisted on being admitted . 
Miss Rachel let here in . 
The alarm , running through the house like fire , caught the two gentlemen next . 
Mr. Godfrey was the first to come out of his room . 
All he did when he heard what had happened was to hold up his hands in a state of bewilderment , which didn't say much for his natural strength of mind . 
Mr. Franklin , whose clear head I had confidently counted on to advise us , seemed to be as helpless as his cousin when he heard the news in his turn . 
For a wonder , he had had a good night's rest at last and the unaccustomed luxury of sleep had , as he said himself , apparently stupefied him . 
exactly as they had been left when we locked up over night . 
My lady answered the knock , and closed the door behind her . 
The moment after we heard it locked inside by Miss Rachel . 
My mistress came out among us , looking sorely puzzled and distressed . 
The loss of the Diamond seems to have quite overwhelmed Rachel , she said , in reply to Mr. Franklin . 
She shrinks , in the strangest manner , from speaking of it , even to ME . 
It is impossible you can see her for the present . 
Having added to our perplexities by this account of Miss Rachel , my lady , after a little effort , recovered her usual composure , and acted with her usual decision . 
I suppose there is no help for it ? she said , quietly . 
both started , and both looked surprised . 
I can't stop to explain myself now , Mr. Franklin went on . 
I can only tell you that the Indians have certainly stolen the Diamond . 
Our chance of catching the thieves may depend on our not wasting one unnecessary minute . 
wrote the letter he wanted a little unwillingly . 
could possibly have got into the house . 
One of them might have slipped into the hall , in the confusion , when the dinner company were going away , says Mr. Franklin . 
The fellow may have been under the sofa while my aunt and Rachel were talking about where the Diamond was to be put for the night . 
He would only have to wait till the house was quiet , and there it would be in the cabinet , to be had for the taking . 
With those words , he called to the groom to open the gate , and galloped off . 
This seemed certainly to be the only rational explanation . 
As for the other doors and windows , there they were still , all safe and fast , to speak for themselves . 
The more I turned it over in my mind , the less satisfactory Mr. Franklin's explanation appeared to be . 
We had our breakfasts whatever happens in a house , robbery or murder , it doesn't matter , you must have your breakfast . 
When we had done , my lady sent for me and I found myself compelled to tell her all that I had hitherto concealed , relating to the Indians and their plot . 
Being a woman of a high courage , she soon got over the first startling effect of what I had to communicate . 
Her mind seemed to be far more perturbed about her daughter than about the heathen rogues and their conspiracy . 
You know how odd Rachel is , and how differently she behaves sometimes from other girls , my lady said to me . 
But I have never , in all my experience , seen her so strange and so reserved as she is now . 
The loss of her jewel seems almost to have turned her brain . 
Who would have thought that horrible Diamond could have laid such a hold on her in so short a time ? It was certainly strange . 
Taking toys and trinkets in general , Miss Rachel was nothing like so mad after them as most young girls . 
Yet there she was , still locked up inconsolably in her bedroom . 
It is but fair to add that she was not the only one of us in the house who was thrown out of the regular groove . 
Mr. Godfrey , for instance though professionally a sort of consoler general seemed to be at a loss where to look for his own resources . 
He was in two different minds about what it became him to do , after the misfortune that had happened to us . 
Circumstances try the metal a man is really made of . 
Mr. Godfrey , tried by circumstances , showed himself of weaker metal than I had thought him to be . 
I myself acknowledge to have been fidgety and ill tempered . 
The cursed Moonstone had turned us all upside down . 
A little before eleven Mr. Franklin came back . 
The resolute side of him had , to all appearance , given way , in the interval since his departure , under the stress that had been laid on it . 
He had left us at a gallop he came back to us at a walk . 
When he went away , he was made of iron . 
When he returned , he was stuffed with cotton , as limp as limp could be . 
Well , says my lady , are the police coming ? Yes , says Mr. Franklin they said they would follow me in a fly . 
Superintendent Seegrave , of your local police force , and two of his men . 
A mere form ! The case is hopeless . 
What ! have the Indians escaped , sir ? I asked . 
The poor ill used Indians have been most unjustly put in prison , says Mr. Franklin . 
They are as innocent as the babe unborn . 
My idea that one of them was hidden in the house has ended , like all the rest of my ideas , in smoke . 
It's been proved , says Mr. Franklin , dwelling with great relish on his own incapacity , to be simply impossible . 
After astonishing us by announcing this totally new turn in the matter of the Moonstone , our young gentleman , at his aunt's request , took a seat , and explained himself . 
It appeared that the resolute side of him had held out as far as Frizinghall . 
He had put the whole case plainly before the magistrate , and the magistrate had at once sent for the police . 
The first inquiries instituted about the Indians showed that they had not so much as attempted to leave the town . 
also proved that they had walked straight back after performing on our terrace . 
Soon after midnight I myself had safely shut up the house . 
Plainer evidence than this , in favour of the Indians , there could not well be . 
The magistrate said there was not even a case of suspicion against them so far . 
in the town , which barely brought them within the operation of the law . 
will stretch a little , if you only pull it the right way . 
The worthy magistrate was an old friend of my lady's , and the Indians were committed for a week , as soon as the court opened that morning . 
Such was Mr. Franklin's narrative of events at Frizinghall . 
The Indian clue to the mystery of the lost jewel was now , to all appearance , a clue that had broken in our hands . 
, and warning the police , as they went by , that the investigation was hopeless , before the investigation had begun . 
For a family in our situation , the Superintendent of the Frizinghall police was the most comforting officer you could wish to see . 
Mr. Seegrave was tall and portly , and military in his manners . 
He had a fine commanding voice , and a mighty resolute eye , and a grand frock coat which buttoned beautifully up to his leather stock . 
I leave you to imagine the state the servants were in when this official announcement first reached their ears . 
The Superintendent decided to begin by examining the boudoir , and , that done , to examine the servants next . 
At this latter proceeding , the weaker half of the human family went distracted on the spot . 
, burst in on Superintendent Seegrave , and , all looking equally guilty , summoned him to say which of them he suspected , at once . 
Mr. Superintendent proved equal to the occasion he looked at them with his resolute eye , and he cowed them with his military voice . 
Now , then , you women , go down stairs again , every one of you I won't have you here . 
Look ! says Mr. Superintendent , suddenly pointing to a little smear of the decorative painting on Miss Rachel's door , at the outer edge , just under the lock . 
Look what mischief the petticoats of some of you have done already . 
The rest followed her out . 
The Superintendent finished his examination of the room , and , making nothing of it , asked me who had first discovered the robbery . 
My daughter had first discovered it . 
My daughter was sent for . 
Mr. Superintendent proved to be a little too sharp with Penelope at starting . 
Now , young woman , attend to me , and mind you speak the truth . 
The questions and answers went swimmingly , and ended in nothing worth mentioning . 
My daughter had seen Miss Rachel put the Diamond in the drawer of the cabinet the last thing at night . 
She had gone in with Miss Rachel's cup of tea at eight the next morning , and had found the drawer open and empty . 
Upon that , she had alarmed the house and there was an end of Penelope's evidence . 
Mr. Superintendent next asked to see Miss Rachel herself . 
Penelope mentioned his request through the door . 
The answer reached us by the same road I have nothing to tell the policeman I can't see anybody . 
Our experienced officer looked equally surprised and offended when he heard that reply . 
I told him my young lady was ill , and begged him to wait a little and see her later . 
We thereupon went downstairs again , and were met by Mr. Godfrey and Mr. Franklin crossing the hall . 
The two gentlemen , being inmates of the house , were summoned to say if they could throw any light on the matter . 
Neither of them knew anything about it . 
Had they heard any suspicious noises during the previous night ? They had heard nothing but the pattering of the rain . 
Superintendent Seegrave is an ass . 
Released in his turn , Mr. Godfrey whispered to me Evidently a most competent person . 
Betteredge , I have the greatest faith in him ! Many men , many opinions , as one of the ancients said , before my time . 
Mr. Superintendent's next proceeding took him back to the boudoir again , with my daughter and me at his heels . 
While we were still poking about among the chairs and tables , the door of the bed room was suddenly opened . 
After having denied herself to everybody , Miss Rachel , to our astonishment , walked into the midst of us of her own accord . 
He wished to speak to me , didn't he ? Yes , miss . 
Where is he now ? Hearing voices on the terrace below , I looked out of window , and saw the two gentlemen walking up and down together . 
Answering for my daughter , I said , Mr. Franklin is on the terrace , miss . 
She went up to Mr. Franklin without appearing to notice Mr. Godfrey , who thereupon drew back and left them by themselves . 
What she said to Mr. Franklin appeared to be spoken vehemently . 
It lasted but for a short time , and , judging by what I saw of his face from the window , seemed to astonish him beyond all power of expression . 
While they were still together , my lady appeared on the terrace . 
Miss Rachel saw her said a few last words to Mr. Franklin and suddenly went back into the house again , before her mother came up with her . 
My lady surprised herself , and noticing Mr. Franklin's surprise , spoke to him . 
Mr. Godfrey joined them , and spoke also . 
I had just seen as much as this , when the door of the sitting room was opened violently . 
Miss Rachel walked swiftly through to her bed room , wild and angry , with fierce eyes and flaming cheeks . 
Mr. Superintendent once more attempted to question her . 
She turned round on him at her bed room door . 
I have not sent for you ! she cried out vehemently . 
Neither you nor anybody else will ever find it ! With those words she went in , and locked the door in our faces . 
Penelope , standing nearest to it , heard her burst out crying the moment she was alone again . 
In my own private mind I was more puzzled by Miss Rachel's extraordinary language and conduct than words can tell . 
Mr. Godfrey , who , as a gentleman and a relative , had been probably admitted into Mr. Franklin's confidence , respected that confidence as he was bound to do . 
My lady , who was also in the secret no doubt , and who alone had access to Miss Rachel , owned openly that she could make nothing of her . 
You madden me when you talk of the Diamond ! All her mother's influence failed to extract from her a word more than that . 
Here we were , then , at a dead lock about Miss Rachel and at a dead lock about the Moonstone . 
In the first case , my lady was powerless to help us . 
, Mr. Seegrave was fast approaching the condition of a superintendent at his wits' end . 
I knew where it was put , sir , I said , to begin with . 
Samuel , the footman , knew also for he was present in the hall , when they were talking about where the Diamond was to be kept that night . 
My daughter knew , as she has already told you . 
For all I can tell , everybody in the house may have known where the jewel was , last night . 
My answer presenting rather a wide field for Mr. Superintendent's suspicions to range over , he tried to narrow it by asking about the servants' characters next . 
I thought directly of Rosanna Spearman . 
But it was neither my place nor my wish to direct suspicion against a poor girl , whose honesty had been above all doubt as long as I had known her . 
The matron at the Reformatory had reported her to my lady as a sincerely penitent and thoroughly trustworthy girl . 
All our people have excellent characters , I said . 
And all have deserved the trust their mistress has placed in them . 
After that , there was but one thing left for Mr. Seegrave to do namely , to set to work , and tackle the servants' characters himself . 
One after another , they were examined . 
at great length , and with a very angry sense of the embargo laid on their bed rooms . 
The rest of them being sent back to their places downstairs , Penelope was then summoned , and examined separately a second time . 
My daughter's little outbreak of temper in the boudoir , and her readiness to think herself suspected , appeared to have produced an unfavourable impression on Superintendent Seegrave . 
It seemed also to dwell a little on his mind , that she had been the last person who saw the Diamond at night . 
When the second questioning was over , my girl came back to me in a frenzy . 
to be quite such an ass as that . 
But , though he said nothing , the eye with which he looked at my daughter was not a very pleasant eye to see . 
I laughed it off with poor Penelope , as something too ridiculous to be treated seriously which it certainly was . 
Secretly , I am afraid I was foolish enough to be angry too . 
It was a little trying it was , indeed . 
My girl sat down in a corner , with her apron over her head , quite broken hearted . 
Foolish of her , you will say . 
she might have waited till he openly accused her . 
Well , being a man of just an equal temper , I admit that . 
Still Mr. Superintendent might have remembered never mind what he might have remembered . 
The devil take him ! The next and last step in the investigation brought matters , as they say , to a crisis . 
My good mistress , like the generous high bred woman she was , refused to let us be treated like thieves . 
I will never consent to make such a return as that , she said , for all I owe to the faithful servants who are employed in my house . 
We gratefully thank your ladyship , I said but we ask your permission to do what is right in this matter by giving up our keys . 
When Gabriel Betteredge sets the example , says I , stopping Superintendent Seegrave at the door , the rest of the servants will follow , I promise you . 
There are my keys , to begin with ! My lady took me by the hand , and thanked me with the tears in her eyes . 
The women were a sight to see , while the police officers were rummaging among their things . 
The cook looked as if she could grill Mr. Superintendent alive on a furnace , and the other women looked as if they could eat him when he was done . 
While the police officer was still pondering in solitude , I was sent for to see Mr. Franklin in the library . 
I stopped Rosanna Spearman , and charged her with a breach of domestic discipline on the spot . 
What might you want in the library at this time of day ? I inquired . 
Mr. Franklin Blake dropped one of his rings up stairs , says Rosanna and I have been into the library to give it to him . 
I found Mr. Franklin writing at the library table . 
He asked for a conveyance to the railway station the moment I entered the room . 
The first sound of his voice informed me that we now had the resolute side of him uppermost once more . 
The man made of cotton had disappeared and the man made of iron sat before me again . 
Going to London , sir ? I asked . 
Going to telegraph to London , says Mr. Franklin . 
I have convinced my aunt that we must have a cleverer head than Superintendent Seegrave's to help us and I have got her permission to despatch a telegram to my father . 
He knows the Chief Commissioner of Police , and the Commissioner can lay his hand on the right man to solve the mystery of the Diamond . 
Talking of mysteries , by the bye , says Mr. Franklin , dropping his voice , I have another word to say to you before you go to the stables . 
I can hardly tell whether I was more startled or distressed at hearing him say that . 
If I had been younger , I might have confessed as much to Mr. Franklin . 
But when you are old , you acquire one excellent habit . 
In cases where you don't see your way clearly , you hold your tongue . 
She came in here with a ring I dropped in my bed room , Mr. Franklin went on . 
When I had thanked her , of course I expected her to go . 
Instead of that , she stood opposite to me at the table , looking at me in the oddest manner half frightened , and half familiar I couldn't make it out . 
'This is a strange thing about the Diamond , sir , she said , in a curiously sudden , headlong way . 
I said , 'Yes , it was , and wondered what was coming next . 
She actually nodded and smiled at me ! Before I could ask her what she meant , we heard your step outside . 
I suppose she was afraid of your catching her here . 
At any rate , she changed colour , and left the room . 
What on earth does it mean ? I could not bring myself to tell him the girl's story , even then . 
It would have been almost as good as telling him that she was the thief . 
I can't bear the idea of getting the poor girl into a scrape , merely because she has a flighty way with her , and talks very strangely , Mr. Franklin went on . 
And yet if she had said to , the Superintendent what she said to me , fool as he is , I'm afraid He stopped there , and left the rest unspoken . 
The best way , sir , I said , will be for me to say two words privately to my mistress about it at the first opportunity . 
My lady has a very friendly interest in Rosanna and the girl may only have been forward and foolish , after all . 
If there's anybody ill , trust the women for prophesying that the person will die . 
If it's a jewel lost , trust them for prophesying that it will never be found again . 
seemed to relieve Mr. Franklin mightily he folded up his telegram , and dismissed the subject . 
On my way to the stables , to order the pony chaise , I looked in at the servants' hall , where they were at dinner . 
Rosanna Spearman was not among them . 
On inquiry , I found that she had been suddenly taken ill , and had gone up stairs to her own room to lie down . 
Curious ! She looked well enough when I saw her last , I remarked . 
Don't talk in that way before the rest of them , father , she said . 
You only make them harder on Rosanna than ever . 
The poor thing is breaking her heart about Mr. Franklin Blake . 
Here was another view of the girl's conduct . 
Granting that to be the right reading of the riddle , it accounted , perhaps , for her flighty , self conceited manner when she passed me in the hall . 
Though he had only said three words , still she had carried her point , and Mr. Franklin had spoken to her . 
I saw the pony harnessed myself . 
And that , let me tell you , was becoming a treat of the rarest kind in our household . 
Going round with the chaise to the front door , I found not only Mr. Franklin , but Mr. Godfrey and Superintendent Seegrave also waiting for me on the steps . 
had led him , it appeared , to an entirely new conclusion . 
had been acting in concert with the Indians and he accordingly proposed shifting his inquiries to the jugglers in the prison at Frizinghall . 
Hearing of this new move , Mr. Franklin had volunteered to take the Superintendent back to the town , from which he could telegraph to London as easily as from our station . 
Mr. Godfrey , still devoutly believing in Mr. Seegrave , and greatly interested in witnessing the examination of the Indians , had begged leave to accompany the officer to Frizinghall . 
One of the two inferior policemen was to be left at the house , in case anything happened . 
The other was to go back with the Superintendent to the town . 
So the four places in the pony chaise were just filled . 
Before he took the reins to drive off , Mr. Franklin walked me away a few steps out of hearing of the others . 
I will wait to telegraph to London , he said , till I see what comes of our examination of the Indians . 
My own conviction is , that this muddle headed local police officer is as much in the dark as ever , and is simply trying to gain time . 
The idea of any of the servants being in league with the Indians is a preposterous absurdity , in my opinion . 
Keep about the house , Betteredge , till I come back , and try what you can make of Rosanna Spearman . 
I don't ask you to do anything degrading to your own self respect , or anything cruel towards the girl . 
I only ask you to exercise your observation more carefully than usual . 
We will make as light of it as we can before my aunt but this is a more important matter than you may suppose . 
It is a matter of twenty thousand pounds , sir , I said , thinking of the value of the Diamond . 
It's a matter of quieting Rachel's mind , answered Mr. Franklin gravely . 
I am very uneasy about her . 
He left me suddenly as if he desired to cut short any further talk between us . 
I thought I understood why . 
Further talk might have let me into the secret of what Miss Rachel had said to him on the terrace . 
So they drove away to Frizinghall . 
I was ready enough , in the girl's own interest , to have a little talk with Rosanna in private . 
But the needful opportunity failed to present itself . 
She only came downstairs again at tea time . 
The day wore on to its end drearily and miserably enough , I can tell you . 
Miss Rachel still kept her room , declaring that she was too ill to come down to dinner that day . 
My lady was in such low spirits about her daughter , that I could not bring myself to make her additionally anxious , by reporting what Rosanna Spearman had said to Mr. Franklin . 
Penelope persisted in believing that she was to be forthwith tried , sentenced , and transported for theft . 
As for me , I hadn't even heart enough to open my ROBINSON CRUSOE . 
I went out into the yard , and , being hard up for a little cheerful society , set my chair by the kennels , and talked to the dogs . 
Half an hour before dinner time , the two gentlemen came back from Frizinghall , having arranged with Superintendent Seegrave that he was to return to us the next day . 
They had called on Mr. Murthwaite , the Indian traveller , at his present residence , near the town . 
On reaching that conclusion , Mr. Franklin had sent his telegraphic message to London , and there the matter now rested till to morrow came . 
So much for the history of the day that followed the birthday . 
Not a glimmer of light had broken in on us , so far . 
A day or two after , however , the darkness lifted a little . 
How , and with what result , you shall presently see . 
CHAPTER XII The Thursday night passed , and nothing happened . 
With the Friday morning came two pieces of news . 
Item the second came through the postman . 
In spite of his skin , the wet had got through him . 
He had caught a chill that night , and was now down with a fever . 
We were all sorry for the little doctor but Mr. Franklin appeared to regret his illness , chiefly on Miss Rachel's account . 
Breakfast had not been over long , when a telegram from Mr. Blake , the elder , arrived , in answer to his son . 
on the right man to help us . 
The name of him was Sergeant Cuff and the arrival of him from London might be expected by the morning train . 
At reading the name of the new police officer , Mr. Franklin gave a start . 
It seems that he had heard some curious anecdotes about Sergeant Cuff , from his father's lawyer , during his stay in London . 
I begin to hope we are seeing the end of our anxieties already , he said . 
I should have liked to have gone to the station myself , to fetch the Sergeant . 
But my lady's carriage and horses were not to be thought of , even for the celebrated Cuff and the pony chaise was required later for Mr. Godfrey . 
But on Friday night he must be in town , having a Ladies' Charity , in difficulties , waiting to consult him on Saturday morning . 
When the time came for the Sergeant's arrival , I went down to the gate to look out for him . 
He was dressed all in decent black , with a white cravat round his neck . 
His face was as sharp as a hatchet , and the skin of it was as yellow and dry and withered as an autumn leaf . 
His walk was soft his voice was melancholy his long lanky fingers were hooked like claws . 
He might have been a parson , or an undertaker or anything else you like , except what he really was . 
Is this Lady Verinder's ? he asked . 
This way , sir , if you please . 
Not a word did he say about the business , however , for all that . 
He admired the grounds , and remarked that he felt the sea air very brisk and refreshing . 
I privately wondered , on my side , how the celebrated Cuff had got his reputation . 
We reached the house , in the temper of two strange dogs , coupled up together for the first time in their lives by the same chain . 
Asking for my lady , and hearing that she was in one of the conservatories , we went round to the gardens at the back , and sent a servant to seek her . 
To the gardener's astonishment , and to my disgust , this celebrated policeman proved to be quite a mine of learning on the trumpery subject of rose gardens . 
This is the shape for a rosery nothing like a circle set in a square . 
Yes , yes with walks between all the beds . 
But they oughtn't to be gravel walks like these . 
Grass , Mr. Gardener grass walks between your roses gravel's too hard for them . 
That's a sweet pretty bed of white roses and blush roses . 
Pretty dear ! says the Sergeant , fondling the Musk Rose with his lanky fingers , and speaking to it as if he was speaking to a child . 
I haven't much time to be fond of anything , 'says Sergeant Cuff . 
But when I HAVE a moment's fondness to bestow , most times , Mr. Betteredge , the roses get it . 
I began my life among them in my father's nursery garden , and I shall end my life among them , if I can . 
I shall retire from catching thieves , and try my hand at growing roses . 
There will be grass walks , Mr. Gardener , between my beds , says the Sergeant , on whose mind the gravel paths of our rosery seemed to dwell unpleasantly . 
It seems an odd taste , sir , I ventured to say , for a man in your line of life . 
, says Sergeant Cuff , you will see that the nature of a man's tastes is , most times , as opposite as possible to the nature of a man's business . 
Show me any two things more opposite one from the other than a rose and a thief and I'll correct my tastes accordingly if it isn't too late at my time of life . 
You find the damask rose a goodish stock for most of the tender sorts , don't you , Mr. Gardener ? Ah ! I thought so . 
Is it Lady Verinder ? He had seen her before either I or the gardener had seen her , though we knew which way to look , and he didn't . 
I began to think him rather a quicker man than he appeared to be at first sight . 
The Sergeant's appearance , or the Sergeant's errand one or both seemed to cause my lady some little embarrassment . 
She was , for the first time in all my experience of her , at a loss what to say at an interview with a stranger . 
Sergeant Cuff put her at her ease directly . 
My lady led the way back . 
Before he followed her , the Sergeant relieved his mind on the subject of the gravel walks by a parting word to the gardener . 
Get her ladyship to try grass , he said , with a sour look at the paths . 
No gravel ! no gravel ! Why Superintendent Seegrave should have appeared to be several sizes smaller than life , on being presented to Sergeant Cuff , I can't undertake to explain . 
I can only state the fact . 
They retired together and remained a weary long time shut up from all mortal intrusion . 
When they came out , Mr. Superintendent was excited , and Mr. Sergeant was yawning . 
The Sergeant wishes to see Miss Verinder's sitting room , says Mr. Seegrave , addressing me with great pomp and eagerness . 
The Sergeant may have some questions to ask . 
Attend the Sergeant , if you please ! While I was being ordered about in this way , I looked at the great Cuff . 
The great Cuff , on his side , looked at Superintendent Seegrave in that quietly expecting way which I have already noticed . 
I can't affirm that he was on the watch for his brother officer's speedy appearance in the character of an Ass I can only say that I strongly suspected it . 
I led the way up stairs . 
, the drift of which I believe to have been equally unintelligible to both of us . 
In due time , his course brought him to the door , and put him face to face with the decorative painting that you know of . 
That's a pity , says Sergeant Cuff . 
How did it happen ? He put the question to me . 
Right ! says Mr. Superintendent in his military way . 
The petticoats did it , Sergeant the petticoats did it . 
Did you notice which petticoat did it ? asked Sergeant Cuff , still addressing himself , not to his brother officer , but to me . 
He turned to Superintendent Seegrave upon that , and said , You noticed , I suppose ? Mr. Superintendent looked a little taken aback but he made the best of it . 
I can't charge my memory , Sergeant , he said , a mere trifle a mere trifle . 
I made a private inquiry last week , Mr. Superintendent , he said . 
At one end of the inquiry there was a murder , and at the other end there was a spot of ink on a table cloth that nobody could account for . 
In all my experience along the dirtiest ways of this dirty little world , I have never met with such a thing as a trifle yet . 
Before we go a step further in this business we must see the petticoat that made the smear , and we must know for certain when that paint was wet . 
Mr. Superintendent taking his set down rather sulkily asked if he should summon the women . 
Sergeant Cuff , after considering a minute , sighed , and shook his head . 
No , he said , we'll take the matter of the paint first . 
It's a question of Yes or No with the paint which is short . 
It's a question of petticoats with the women which is long . 
Is the gentleman in the house ? Mr. Franklin was as close at hand as could be waiting for his first chance of being introduced to the great Cuff . 
The vehicle dries whatever colours may be used with it , in twelve hours . 
Do you remember when the smeared bit was done , sir ? asked the Sergeant . 
Perfectly , answered Mr. Franklin . 
That was the last morsel of the door to be finished . 
We wanted to get it done , on Wednesday last and I myself completed it by three in the afternoon , or soon after . 
To day is Friday , said Sergeant Cuff , addressing himself to Superintendent Seegrave . 
Let us reckon back , sir . 
At three on the Wednesday afternoon , that bit of the painting was completed . 
The vehicle dried it in twelve hours that is to say , dried it by three o'clock on Thursday morning . 
At eleven on Thursday morning you held your inquiry here . 
Take three from eleven , and eight remains . 
That paint had been EIGHT HOURS DRY , Mr. Superintendent , when you supposed that the women servants' petticoats smeared it . 
First knock down blow for Mr. Seegrave ! If he had not suspected poor Penelope , I should have pitied him . 
It's quite on the cards , sir , he said , that you have put the clue into our hands . 
As the words passed his lips , the bedroom door opened , and Miss Rachel came out among us suddenly . 
She addressed herself to the Sergeant , without appearing to notice that he was a perfect stranger to her . 
That gentleman , miss , says the Sergeant with his steely grey eyes carefully studying my young lady's face has possibly put the clue into our hands . 
She turned for one moment , and tried to look at Mr. Franklin . 
I say , tried , for she suddenly looked away again before their eyes met . 
There seemed to be some strange disturbance in her mind . 
She coloured up , and then she turned pale again . 
With the paleness , there came a new look into her face a look which it startled me to see . 
Having answered your question , miss , says the Sergeant , I beg leave to make an inquiry in my turn . 
There is a smear on the painting of your door , here . 
Are you another police officer ? she asked . 
I am Sergeant Cuff , miss , of the Detective Police . 
Do you think a young lady's advice worth having ? I shall be glad to hear it , miss . 
Sergeant Cuff's immovable eyes never stirred from off her face . 
Thank you , miss , he said . 
Do you happen to know anything about the smear ? Might you have done it by accident yourself ? I know nothing about the smear . 
With that answer , she turned away , and shut herself up again in her bed room . 
This time , I heard her as Penelope had heard her before burst out crying as soon as she was alone again . 
I couldn't bring myself to look at the Sergeant I looked at Mr. Franklin , who stood nearest to me . 
He seemed to be even more sorely distressed at what had passed than I was . 
I told you I was uneasy about her , he said . 
And now you see why . 
Miss Verinder appears to be a little out of temper about the loss of her Diamond , remarked the Sergeant . 
A young lady's tongue is a privileged member , sir , says the Sergeant to Mr. Franklin . 
Let us forget what has passed , and go straight on with this business . 
Thanks to you , we know when the paint was dry . 
The next thing to discover is when the paint was last seen without that smear . 
YOU have got a head on your shoulders and you understand what I mean . 
Mr. Franklin composed himself , and came back with an effort from Miss Rachel to the matter in hand . 
I think I do understand , he said . 
The more we narrow the question of time , the more we also narrow the field of inquiry . 
That's it , sir , said the Sergeant . 
Did you notice your work here , on the Wednesday afternoon , after you had done it ? Mr. Franklin shook his head , and answered , I can't say I did . 
Did you ? inquired Sergeant Cuff , turning to me . 
I can't say I did either , sir . 
Who was the last person in the room , the last thing on Wednesday night ? Miss Rachel , I suppose , sir . 
Mr. Franklin struck in there , Or possibly your daughter , Betteredge . 
He turned to Sergeant Cuff , and explained that my daughter was Miss Verinder's maid . 
Mr. Betteredge , ask your daughter to step up . 
Among other things , he has , by his own confession , set the servants' backs up . 
It's very important to smooth them down again . 
Second , that my business here with the servants is simply to ask them to lay their heads together and help me to find it . 
My experience of the women servants , when Superintendent Seegrave laid his embargo on their rooms , came in handy here . 
May I make so bold , Sergeant , as to tell the women a third thing ? I asked . 
to fidget up and downstairs , and whisk in and out of their bed rooms , if the fit takes them ? Perfectly free , said the Sergeant . 
THAT will smooth them down , sir , I remarked , from the cook to the scullion . 
Go , and do it at once , Mr. Betteredge . 
I did it in less than five minutes . 
There was only one difficulty when I came to the bit about the bed rooms . 
The Sergeant seemed to approve of Penelope . 
He became a trifle less dreary and he looked much as he had looked when he noticed the white musk rose in the flower garden . 
Here is my daughter's evidence , as drawn off from her by the Sergeant . 
Noticed the bit of work under the lock , because it was the last bit done . 
Had seen it , some hours afterwards , without a smear . 
Had left it , as late as twelve at night , without a smear . 
End of Penelope's evidence and very pretty and convincing , too . 
The Sergeant's next proceeding was to question me about any large dogs in the house who might have got into the room , and done the mischief with a whisk of their tails . 
Hearing that this was impossible , he next sent for a magnifying glass , and tried how the smear looked , seen that way . 
No skin mark printed off on the paint . 
All the signs visible signs which told that the paint had been smeared by some loose article of somebody's dress touching it in going by . 
must have been in the room , and done the mischief , between midnight and three o'clock on the Thursday morning . 
At the present stage of the inquiry there are , as I take it , three discoveries to make , starting from that smear . 
whether there is any article of dress in this house with the smear of the paint on it . 
Find out who that dress belongs to . 
how the person can account for having been in this room , and smeared the paint , between midnight and three in the morning . 
If the person can't satisfy you , you haven't far to look for the hand that has got the Diamond . 
I'll work this by myself , if you please , and detain you no longer from your regular business in the town . 
You have got one of your men here , I see . 
Leave him here at my disposal , in case I want him and allow me to wish you good morning . 
Superintendent Seegrave's respect for the Sergeant was great but his respect for himself was greater still . 
Hit hard by the celebrated Cuff , he hit back smartly , to the best of his ability , on leaving the room . 
I have abstained from expressing any opinion , so far , says Mr. Superintendent , with his military voice still in good working order . 
I have now only one remark to offer on leaving this case in your hands . 
There IS such a thing , Sergeant , as making a mountain out of a molehill . 
There is also such a thing as making nothing out of a molehill , in consequence of your head being too high to see it . 
Having returned his brother officer's compliments in those terms , Sergeant Cuff wheeled about , and walked away to the window by himself . 
Mr. Franklin and I waited to see what was coming next . 
The Sergeant stood at the window with his hands in his pockets , looking out , and whistling the tune of The Last Rose of Summer softly to himself . 
I suppose it fitted in somehow with his character . 
It reminded him , you see , of his favourite roses , and , as HE whistled it , it was the most melancholy tune going . 
Leaving the room with this message , I heard Mr. Franklin ask the Sergeant a question , and stopped to hear the answer also at the threshold of the door . 
Can you guess yet , inquired Mr. Franklin , who has stolen the Diamond ? NOBODY HAS STOLEN THE DIAMOND , answered Sergeant Cuff . 
We both started at that extraordinary view of the case , and both earnestly begged him to tell us what he meant . 
Wait a little , said the Sergeant . 
The pieces of the puzzle are not all put together yet . 
CHAPTER XIII I found my lady in her own sitting room . 
She started and looked annoyed when I mentioned that Sergeant Cuff wished to speak to her . 
MUST I see him ? she asked . 
Can't you represent me , Gabriel ? I felt at a loss to understand this , and showed it plainly , I suppose , in my face . 
My lady was so good as to explain herself . 
I am afraid my nerves are a little shaken , she said . 
There is something in that police officer from London which I recoil from I don't know why . 
I have a presentiment that he is bringing trouble and misery with him into the house . 
Very foolish , and very unlike ME but so it is . 
I hardly knew what to say to this . 
The more I saw of Sergeant Cuff , the better I liked him . 
My lady rallied a little after having opened her heart to me being , naturally , a woman of a high courage , as I have already told you . 
If I must see him , I must , she said . 
But I can't prevail on myself to see him alone . 
Bring him in , Gabriel , and stay here as long as he stays . 
This was the first attack of the megrims that I remembered in my mistress since the time when she was a young girl . 
I went back to the boudoir . 
Mr. Franklin strolled out into the garden , and joined Mr. Godfrey , whose time for departure was now drawing near . 
Sergeant Cuff and I went straight to my mistress's room . 
My lady pointed to two chairs , and we set in for our conference immediately . 
I have already formed an opinion on this case , says Sergeant Cuff , which I beg your ladyship's permission to keep to myself for the present . 
He then went into the matter of the smear on the paint , and stated the conclusions he drew from it just as he had stated them to Superintendent Seegrave . 
One thing , he said , in conclusion , is certain . 
The Diamond is missing out of the drawer in the cabinet . 
Another thing is next to certain . 
The marks from the smear on the door must be on some article of dress belonging to somebody in this house . 
We must discover that article of dress before we go a step further . 
And that discovery , remarked my mistress , implies , I presume , the discovery of the thief ? I beg your ladyship's pardon I don't say the Diamond is stolen . 
I only say , at present , that the Diamond is missing . 
The discovery of the stained dress may lead the way to finding it . 
Her ladyship looked at me . 
Do you understand this ? she said . 
Sergeant Cuff understands it , my lady , I answered . 
How do you propose to discover the stained dress ? inquired my mistress , addressing herself once more to the Sergeant . 
My good servants , who have been with me for years , have , I am ashamed to say , had their boxes and rooms searched already by the other officer . 
That is the very point I was about to put to your ladyship , said the Sergeant . 
The other officer has done a world of harm to this inquiry , by letting the servants see that he suspected them . 
If I give them cause to think themselves suspected a second time , there's no knowing what obstacles they may not throw in my way the women especially . 
I quite agree with you , my lady , that the servants' feelings ought to be consulted . 
But I am equally clear that the servants' wardrobes ought to be searched . 
This looked very like a dead lock . 
My lady said so , in choicer language than mine . 
I have got a plan to meet the difficulty , said Sergeant Cuff , if your ladyship will consent to it . 
I propose explaining the case to the servants . 
The women will think themselves suspected directly , I said , interrupting him . 
I saw the truth of that . 
My lady , after her first surprise was over , saw the truth of it also . 
You are certain the investigation is necessary ? she said . 
It's the shortest way that I can see , my lady , to the end we have in view . 
My mistress rose to ring the bell for her maid . 
You shall speak to the servants , she said , with the keys of my wardrobe in your hand . 
Sergeant Cuff stopped her by a very unexpected question . 
The only gentlemen are my nephews , Mr. Blake and Mr. Ablewhite . 
There is not the least fear of a refusal from any of the three . 
I reminded my lady here that Mr. Godfrey was going away . 
My lady explained the difficulty . 
Mr. Godfrey settled it directly . 
He called to Samuel , through the window , to take his portmanteau up stairs again , and he then put the key himself into Sergeant Cuff's hand . 
My luggage can follow me to London , he said , when the inquiry is over . 
The Sergeant received the key with a becoming apology . 
I am sorry to put you to any inconvenience , sir , for a mere formality but the example of their betters will do wonders in reconciling the servants to this inquiry . 
Mr. Franklin , on following his cousin out , informed the Sergeant that all his clothes were open to examination , and that nothing he possessed was kept under lock and key . 
Sergeant Cuff made his best acknowledgments . 
His views , you will observe , had been met with the utmost readiness by my lady , by Mr. Godfrey , and by Mr. Franklin . 
Rachel now wanting to follow their lead , before we called the servants together , and began the search for the stained dress . 
My lady's unaccountable objection to the Sergeant seemed to make our conference more distasteful to her than ever , as soon as we were left alone again . 
Before we begin , I should like , if convenient , to have the washing book . 
The stained article of dress may be an article of linen . 
If the search leads to nothing , I want to be able to account next for all the linen in the house , and for all the linen sent to the wash . 
Superintendent Seegrave , added the Sergeant , turning to me , pointed the attention of the women servants to the smear , when they all crowded into the room on Thursday morning . 
That may turn out , Mr. Betteredge , to have been one more of Superintendent Seegrave's many mistakes . 
My lady desired me to ring the bell , and order the washing book . 
She remained with us until it was produced , in case Sergeant Cuff had any further request to make of her after looking at it . 
The washing book was brought in by Rosanna Spearman . 
The girl had come down to breakfast that morning miserably pale and haggard , but sufficiently recovered from her illness of the previous day to do her usual work . 
Sergeant Cuff looked attentively at our second housemaid at her face , when she came in at her crooked shoulder , when she went out . 
Have you anything more to say to me ? asked my lady , still as eager as ever to be out of the Sergeant's society . 
The great Cuff opened the washing book , understood it perfectly in half a minute , and shut it up again . 
I venture to trouble your ladyship with one last question , he said . 
Has the young woman who brought us this book been in your employment as long as the other servants ? Why do you ask ? said my lady . 
The last time I saw her , answered the Sergeant , she was in prison for theft . 
After that , there was no help for it , but to tell him the truth . 
My mistress dwelt strongly on Rosanna's good conduct in her service , and on the high opinion entertained of her by the matron at the reformatory . 
You don't suspect her , I hope ? my lady added , in conclusion , very earnestly . 
I have already told your ladyship that I don't suspect any person in the house of thieving up to the present time . 
After that answer , my lady rose to go up stairs , and ask for Miss Rachel's keys . 
The Sergeant was before hand with me in opening the door for her . 
He made a very low bow . 
My lady shuddered as she passed him . 
We waited , and waited , and no keys appeared . 
Sergeant Cuff made no remark to me . 
He turned his melancholy face to the window he put his lanky hands into his pockets and he whistled The Last Rose of Summer softly to himself . 
At last , Samuel came in , not with the keys , but with a morsel of paper for me . 
I got at my spectacles , with some fumbling and difficulty , feeling the Sergeant's dismal eyes fixed on me all the time . 
There were two or three lines on the paper , written in pencil by my lady . 
They informed me that Miss Rachel flatly refused to have her wardrobe examined . 
Asked for her reasons , she had burst out crying . 
Asked again , she had said I won't , because I won't . 
I must yield to force if you use it , but I will yield to nothing else . 
I understood my lady's disinclination to face Sergeant Cuff with such an answer from her daughter as that . 
If I had not been too old for the amiable weaknesses of youth , I believe I should have blushed at the notion of facing him myself . 
Any news of Miss Verinder's keys ? asked the Sergeant . 
My young lady refuses to have her wardrobe examined . 
Ah ! said the Sergeant . 
His voice was not quite in such a perfect state of discipline as his face . 
When he said Ah ! he said it in the tone of a man who had heard something which he expected to hear . 
He half angered and half frightened me why , I couldn't tell , but he did it . 
Must the search be given up ? I asked . 
Yes , said the Sergeant , the search must be given up , because your young lady refuses to submit to it like the rest . 
We must examine all the wardrobes in the house or none . 
Send Mr. Ablewhite's portmanteau to London by the next train , and return the washing book , with my compliments and thanks , to the young woman who brought it in . 
He laid the washing book on the table , and taking out his penknife , began to trim his nails . 
You don't seem to be much disappointed , I said . 
No , said Sergeant Cuff I am not much disappointed . 
I tried to make him explain himself . 
Why should Miss Rachel put an obstacle in your way ? I inquired . 
Isn't it her interest to help you ? Wait a little , Mr. Betteredge wait a little . 
Cleverer heads than mine might have seen his drift . 
Or a person less fond of Miss Rachel than I was , might have seen his drift . 
I didn't see it yet that's all I know . 
What's to be done next ? I asked . 
Sergeant Cuff finished the nail on which he was then at work , looked at it for a moment with a melancholy interest , and put up his penknife . 
Come out into the garden , he said and let's have a look at the roses . 
CHAPTER XIV The nearest way to the garden , on going out of my lady's sitting room , was by the shrubbery path , which you already know of . 
For the sake of your better understanding of what is now to come , I may add to this , that the shrubbery path was Mr. Franklin's favourite walk . 
When he was out in the grounds , and when we failed to find him anywhere else , we generally found him here . 
I am afraid I must own that I am rather an obstinate old man . 
The more firmly Sergeant Cuff kept his thoughts shut up from me , the more firmly I persisted in trying to look in at them . 
As we turned into the shrubbery path , I attempted to circumvent him in another way . 
As things are now , I said , if I was in your place , I should be at my wits' end . 
Never mind for the present what those conclusions are , Mr. Betteredge . 
I haven't brought you out here to draw me like a badger I have brought you out here to ask for some information . 
You might have given it to me no doubt , in the house , instead of out of it . 
But doors and listeners have a knack of getting together and , in my line of life , we cultivate a healthy taste for the open air . 
Who was to circumvent THIS man ? I gave in and waited as patiently as I could to hear what was coming next . 
I have decided to see the servants , and to search their thoughts and actions , Mr. Betteredge , instead of searching their wardrobes . 
Before I begin , however , I want to ask you a question or two . 
A touch of the rheumatics in my back , said the Sergeant , in a loud voice , as if he wanted some third person to hear us . 
We shall have a change in the weather before long . 
A few steps further brought us to the corner of the house . 
Turning off sharp to the right , we entered on the terrace , and went down , by the steps in the middle , into the garden below . 
Sergeant Cuff stopped there , in the open space , where we could see round us on every side . 
About that young person , Rosanna Spearman ? he said . 
It isn't very likely , with her personal appearance , that she has got a lover . 
I saw Rosanna Spearman hiding in the shrubbery as we went by , said the Sergeant . 
When you said 'Hullo' ? Yes when I said 'Hullo ! If there's a sweetheart in the case , the hiding doesn't much matter . 
If there isn't as things are in this house the hiding is a highly suspicious circumstance , and it will be my painful duty to act on it accordingly . 
If my daughter was right , she might well have been lying in wait for Mr. Franklin's return when the Sergeant noticed her . 
On the few occasions when anything amused him , he curled up a little at the corners of the lips , nothing more . 
Hadn't you better say she's mad enough to be an ugly girl and only a servant ? he asked . 
The falling in love with a gentleman of Mr. Franklin Blake's manners and appearance doesn't seem to me to be the maddest part of her conduct by any means . 
However , I'm glad the thing is cleared up it relieves one's mind to have things cleared up . 
Yes , I'll keep it a secret , Mr. Betteredge . 
I like to be tender to human infirmity though I don't get many chances of exercising that virtue in my line of life . 
You think Mr. Franklin Blake hasn't got a suspicion of the girl's fancy for him ? Ah ! he would have found it out fast enough if she had been nice looking . 
The ugly women have a bad time of it in this world let's hope it will be made up to them in another . 
You have got a nice garden here , and a well kept lawn . 
See for yourself how much better the flowers look with grass about them instead of gravel . 
I won't take a rose . 
It goes to my heart to break them off the stem . 
Just as it goes to your heart , you know , when there's something wrong in the servants' hall . 
But the slyness with which he slipped in that last question put me on my guard . 
I noticed nothing , I said , except that we all lost our heads together , myself included . 
an unmoved countenance , That is all . 
Sergeant Cuff's dismal eyes looked me hard in the face . 
Mr. Betteredge , he said , have you any objection to oblige me by shaking hands ? I have taken an extraordinary liking to you . 
, one after another , in the order of their rank , from first to last . 
I showed Sergeant Cuff into my own room , and then called the servants together in the hall . 
Rosanna Spearman appeared among them , much as usual . 
There she was , at any rate , looking as if she had never heard of such a place as the shrubbery in her life . 
I sent them in , one by one , as desired . 
The cook was the first to enter the Court of Justice , otherwise my room . 
She remained but a short time . 
Report , on coming out Sergeant Cuff is depressed in his spirits but Sergeant Cuff is a perfect gentleman . 
My lady's own maid followed . 
Report , on coming out If Sergeant Cuff doesn't believe a respectable woman , he might keep his opinion to himself , at any rate ! Penelope went next . 
Remained only a moment or two . 
Report , on coming out Sergeant Cuff is much to be pitied . 
He must have been crossed in love , father , when he was a young man . 
The first housemaid followed Penelope . 
Remained , like my lady's maid , a long time . 
Report , on coming out I didn't enter her ladyship's service , Mr. Betteredge , to be doubted to my face by a low police officer ! Rosanna Spearman went next . 
Remained longer than any of them . 
No report on coming out dead silence , and lips as pale as ashes . 
Samuel , the footman , followed Rosanna . 
Remained a minute or two . 
Report , on coming out Whoever blacks Sergeant Cuff's boots ought to be ashamed of himself . 
Nancy , the kitchen maid , went last . 
Remained a minute or two . 
Report , on coming out Sergeant Cuff has a heart HE doesn't cut jokes , Mr. Betteredge , with a poor hard working girl . 
Any discoveries , sir ? I inquired . 
If Rosanna Spearman asks leave to go out , said the Sergeant , let the poor thing go but let me know first . 
I hope you don't think Rosanna is concerned in the loss of the Diamond ? I ventured to say . 
The corners of the Sergeant's melancholy mouth curled up , and he looked hard in my face , just as he had looked in the garden . 
I think I had better not tell you , Mr. Betteredge , he said . 
You might lose your head , you know , for the second time . 
Rosanna Spearman HAD asked to go out , for the usual reason , that her head was bad , and she wanted a breath of fresh air . 
At a sign from the Sergeant , I said , Yes . 
Which is the servants' way out ? he asked , when the messenger had gone . 
I showed him the servants' way out . 
Lock the door of your room , says the Sergeant and if anybody asks for me , say I'm in there , composing my mind . 
He curled up again at the corners of the lips , and disappeared . 
Left alone , under those circumstances , a devouring curiosity pushed me on to make some discoveries for myself . 
It was plain that Sergeant Cuff's suspicions of Rosanna had been roused by something that he had found out at his examination of the servants in my room . 
My reliance on the tea pot , as an ally , did not go unrewarded . 
In less than half an hour I knew as much as the Sergeant himself . 
My lady's maid and the housemaid , had , it appeared , neither of them believed in Rosanna's illness of the previous day . 
at four in the morning . 
Hence , the unfavourable reports of him which these two women had brought out with them from the examination . 
, their readiness to let their tongues run to any length on the subject of the Sergeant's ungracious behaviour to them . 
I walked out in the fine summer afternoon , very sorry for the poor girl , and very uneasy in my mind at the turn things had taken . 
Drifting towards the shrubbery , some time later , there I met Mr. Franklin . 
After returning from seeing his cousin off at the station , he had been with my lady , holding a long conversation with her . 
The family temper appeared in his face that evening , for the first time in my experience of him . 
We walked silently , side by side , for a minute or two , and then he asked me what had become of Sergeant Cuff . 
It was impossible to put Mr. Franklin off with the excuse of the Sergeant being in my room , composing his mind . 
I told him exactly what had happened , mentioning particularly what my lady's maid and the house maid had said about Rosanna Spearman . 
Mr. Franklin's clear head saw the turn the Sergeant's suspicions had taken , in the twinkling of an eye . 
If my aunt's maid and the other woman have spoken the truth , you may depend upon it the tradesman did meet her . 
The girl's attack of illness was a blind to deceive us . 
She had some guilty reason for going to the town secretly . 
The paint stained dress is a dress of hers and the fire heard crackling in her room at four in the morning was a fire lit to destroy it . 
Rosanna Spearman has stolen the Diamond . 
I'll go in directly , and tell my aunt the turn things have taken . 
Not just yet , if you please , sir , said a melancholy voice behind us . 
We both turned about , and found ourselves face to face with Sergeant Cuff . 
Why not just yet ? asked Mr. Franklin . 
Because , sir , if you tell her ladyship , her ladyship will tell Miss Verinder . 
What then ? Mr. Franklin said those words with a sudden heat and vehemence , as if the Sergeant had mortally offended him . 
The two looked each other straight in the face . 
Mr. Franklin spoke first , dropping his voice as suddenly as he had raised it . 
Mr. Franklin had no choice but to submit . 
He turned away in anger and left us . 
I had stood there listening to them , all in a tremble not knowing whom to suspect , or what to think next . 
In the midst of my confusion , two things , however , were plain to me . 
First , that my young lady was , in some unaccountable manner , at the bottom of the sharp speeches that had passed between them . 
Second , that they thoroughly understood each other , without having previously exchanged a word of explanation on either side . 
Mr. Betteredge , says the Sergeant , you have done a very foolish thing in my absence . 
You have done a little detective business on your own account . 
For the future , perhaps you will be so obliging as to do your detective business along with me . 
He took me by the arm , and walked me away with him along the road by which he had come . 
I dare say I had deserved his reproof but I was not going to help him to set traps for Rosanna Spearman , for all that . 
Thief or no thief , legal or not legal , I don't care I pitied her . 
What do you want of me ? I asked , shaking him off , and stopping short . 
Only a little information about the country round here , said the Sergeant . 
I couldn't well object to improve Sergeant Cuff in his geography . 
Is there any path , in that direction , leading to the sea beach from this house ? asked the Sergeant . 
He pointed , as he spoke , to the fir plantation which led to the Shivering Sand . 
Yes , I said , there is a path . 
Side by side , in the grey of the summer evening , Sergeant Cuff and I set forth for the Shivering Sand . 
CHAPTER XV The Sergeant remained silent , thinking his own thoughts , till we entered the plantation of firs which led to the quicksand . 
There he roused himself , like a man whose mind was made up , and spoke to me again . 
You are determined to give me no information to the prejudice of Rosanna Spearman , because she has been a good girl to YOU , and because you pity her heartily . 
Those humane considerations do you a world of credit , but they happen in this instance to be humane considerations clean thrown away . 
I mean that your lady CAN'T prosecute , said the Sergeant . 
Rosanna Spearman is simply an instrument in the hands of another person , and Rosanna Spearman will be held harmless for that other person's sake . 
He spoke like a man in earnest there was no denying that . 
Still , I felt something stirring uneasily against him in my mind . 
Can't you give that other person a name ? I said . 
Can't you , Mr. Betteredge ? No. Sergeant Cuff stood stock still , and surveyed me with a look of melancholy interest . 
It's always a pleasure to me to be tender towards human infirmity , he said . 
I feel particularly tender at the present moment , Mr. Betteredge , towards you . 
, had given her a new outfit not a fortnight since . 
This is a miserable world , says the Sergeant . 
Human life , Mr. Betteredge , is a sort of target misfortune is always firing at it , and always hitting the mark . 
But for that outfit , we should have discovered a new nightgown or petticoat among Rosanna's things , and have nailed her in that way . 
You're not at a loss to follow me , are you ? You have examined the servants yourself , and you know what discoveries two of them made outside Rosanna's door . 
points out to all the women servants the smear on the door . 
, and is at this moment occupied in making away with it , in some convenient place , on that lonely bit of beach ahead of us . 
I have traced her this evening to your fishing village , and to one particular cottage , which we may possibly have to visit , before we go back . 
She stopped in the cottage for some time , and she came out with something hidden under her cloak . 
is an emblem of charity it covers a multitude of sins . 
I saw her set off northwards along the coast , after leaving the cottage . 
Is your sea shore here considered a fine specimen of marine landscape , Mr. Betteredge ? I answered , Yes , as shortly as might be . 
Tastes differ , says Sergeant Cuff . 
Looking at it from my point of view , I never saw a marine landscape that I admired less . 
If you happen to be following another person along your sea coast , and if that person happens to look round , there isn't a scrap of cover to hide you anywhere . 
I had to choose between taking Rosanna in custody on suspicion , or leaving her , for the time being , with her little game in her own hands . 
I came back to the house to ask you to take me to the north end of the beach by another way . 
Sand in respect of its printing off people's footsteps is one of the best detective officers I know . 
Sergeant Cuff went on between the hillocks of sand , down to the beach . 
and waited at a little distance for what was to happen next . 
While my eyes were watching the Sergeant , my mind wandered away in spite of me to what had passed , on that former occasion , between Rosanna and me . 
I declare I almost felt the poor thing slip her hand again into mine , and give it a little grateful squeeze to thank me for speaking kindly to her . 
The last of the evening light was fading away and over all the desolate place there hung a still and awful calm . 
The heave of the main ocean on the great sandbank out in the bay , was a heave that made no sound . 
The inner sea lay lost and dim , without a breath of wind to stir it . 
Patches of nasty ooze floated , yellow white , on the dead surface of the water . 
I saw the Sergeant start as the shiver of the sand caught his eye . 
After looking at it for a minute or so , he turned and came back to me . 
A treacherous place , Mr. Betteredge , he said and no signs of Rosanna Spearman anywhere on the beach , look where you may . 
He took me down lower on the shore , and I saw for myself that his footsteps and mine were the only footsteps printed off on the sand . 
How does the fishing village bear , standing where we are now ? asked Sergeant Cuff . 
, bears as near as may be , due south . 
I saw the girl this evening , walking northward along the shore , from Cobb's Hole , said the Sergeant . 
Consequently , she must have been walking towards this place . 
If you'll excuse my suggesting it , we'll step out briskly , said the Sergeant . 
I want to find the place where she left the shore , before it gets dark . 
There's something to be said for your marine landscape here , after all , remarked the Sergeant . 
Here are a woman's footsteps , Mr. Betteredge ! Let us call them Rosanna's footsteps , until we find evidence to the contrary that we can't resist . 
Very confused footsteps , you will please to observe purposely confused , I should say . 
Here's one footstep going FROM Cobb's Hole and here is another going back to it . 
It looks as if she had determined to get to that place you and I have just come from , without leaving any marks on the sand to trace her by . 
It seems to fit in with my notion that she had something under her cloak , when she left the cottage . 
Perhaps , if we go on to the cottage , we may find out what that something is ? At this proposal , my detective fever suddenly cooled . 
You don't want me , I said . 
What good can I do ? The longer I know you , Mr. Betteredge , said the Sergeant , the more virtues I discover . 
If I go with you , I go introduced by a justly respected neighbour , and a flow of conversation is the necessary result . 
Those friends were the Yollands respectable , worthy people , a credit to the neighbourhood . 
Rosanna's acquaintance with them had begun by means of the daughter , who was afflicted with a misshapen foot , and who was known in our parts by the name of Limping Lucy . 
The two deformed girls had , I suppose , a kind of fellow feeling for each other . 
Anyway , the Yollands and Rosanna always appeared to get on together , at the few chances they had of meeting , in a pleasant and friendly manner . 
The fact of Sergeant Cuff having traced the girl to THEIR cottage , set the matter of my helping his inquiries in quite a new light . 
It would be doing the girl a service , therefore , instead of an injury , if I allowed myself to be convinced by Sergeant Cuff's logic . 
I professed myself convinced by it accordingly . 
We went on to Cobb's Hole , seeing the footsteps on the sand , as long as the light lasted . 
On reaching the cottage , the fisherman and his son proved to be out in the boat and Limping Lucy , always weak and weary , was resting on her bed up stairs . 
Good Mrs. Yolland received us alone in her kitchen . 
I sat quiet in a corner , waiting to hear how the Sergeant would find his way to the subject of Rosanna Spearman . 
His usual roundabout manner of going to work proved , on this occasion , to be more roundabout than ever . 
How he managed it is more than I could tell at the time , and more than I can tell now . 
to the loss of the Moonstone , the spitefulness of our first house maid , and the hard behaviour of the women servants generally towards Rosanna Spearman . 
His last effort was made , when we had looked at our watches , and had got on our legs previous to taking leave . 
I shall now wish you good night , ma'am , says the Sergeant . 
And I shall only say , at parting , that Rosanna Spearman has a sincere well wisher in myself , your obedient servant . 
But , oh dear me ! she will never get on in her present place and my advice to her is leave it . 
Bless your heart alive ! she is GOING to leave it ! cries Mrs. Yolland . 
Rosanna Spearman going to leave us ! I pricked up my ears at that . 
It seemed strange , to say the least of it , that she should have given no warning , in the first place , to my lady or to me . 
A certain doubt came up in my mind whether Sergeant Cuff's last random shot might not have hit the mark . 
I began to question whether my share in the proceedings was quite as harmless a one as I had thought it . 
Beginning to smell mischief in the air , I tried to take Sergeant Cuff out . 
He sat down again instantly , and asked for a little drop of comfort out of the Dutch bottle . 
Mrs Yolland sat down opposite to him , and gave him his nip . 
I went on to the door , excessively uncomfortable , and said I thought I must bid them good night and yet I didn't go . 
So she means to leave ? says the Sergeant . 
What is she to do when she does leave ? Sad , sad ! The poor creature has got no friends in the world , except you and me . 
Ah , but she has though ! says Mrs. Yolland . 
It's the only room in our place where there's pen and ink . 
I want to write a letter to a friend , she says and I can't do it for the prying and peeping of the servants up at the house . 
Who the letter was written to I can't tell you it must have been a mortal long one , judging by the time she stopped up stairs over it . 
I offered her a postage stamp when she came down . 
She hadn't got the letter in her hand , and she didn't accept the stamp . 
A little close , poor soul , about herself and her doings . 
But a friend she has got somewhere , I can tell you and to that friend you may depend upon it , she will go . 
Soon ? asked the Sergeant . 
As soon as she can . 
Here I stepped in again from the door . 
You must be mistaken about Rosanna Spearman , I said . 
If she had been going to leave her present situation , she would have mentioned it , in the first place , to ME . 
Mistaken ? cries Mrs. Yolland . 
Why , only an hour ago she bought some things she wanted for travelling of my own self , Mr. Betteredge , in this very room . 
Mrs. Yolland produced out of her pocket , a few shillings and sixpences , and counted them out with a most particular and exasperating carefulness in the palm of her hand . 
She offered the money to the Sergeant , looking mighty loth to part with it all the while . 
Might I ask you to give this back to Rosanna , with my love and respects ? says Mrs. Yolland . 
She insisted on paying me for the one or two things she took a fancy to this evening and money's welcome enough in our house , I don't deny it . 
Still , I m not easy in my mind about taking the poor thing's little savings . 
Please say she's heartily welcome to the things she bought of me as a gift . 
Come along ! I said , I can't wait any longer I must go back to the house . 
I'll follow you directly , says Sergeant Cuff . 
For the second time , I went to the door and , for the second time , try as I might , I couldn't cross the threshold . 
It's a delicate matter , ma'am , I heard the Sergeant say , giving money back . 
You charged her cheap for the things , I'm sure ? Cheap ! says Mrs. Yolland . 
Come and judge for yourself . 
She took up the candle and led the Sergeant to a corner of the kitchen . 
For the life of me , I couldn't help following them . 
, which the fisherman had picked up at different times from wrecked ships , and which he hadn't found a market for yet , to his own mind . 
When Rosanna came in this evening , she bought the fellow to that . 
'It will just do , she says , 'to put my cuffs and collars in , and keep them from being crumpled in my box . 
One and ninepence , Mr. Cuff . 
As I live by bread , not a halfpenny more ! Dirt cheap ! says the Sergeant , with a heavy sigh . 
He weighed the case in his hand . 
I thought I heard a note or two of The Last Rose of Summer as he looked at it . 
That will do , I said . 
Without paying the least attention to me , Mrs. Yolland took another dive into the rubbish , and came up out of it , this time , with a dog chain . 
Weigh it in your hand , sir , she said to the Sergeant . 
We had three of these and Rosanna has taken two of them . 
'What can you want , my dear , with a couple of dog's chains ? says I. 'If I join them together they'll do round my box nicely , says she . 
'Rope's cheapest , says I. 'Chain's surest , says she . 
There ! I humoured her . 
On the word of an honest woman , three and sixpence , Mr. Cuff ! Each ? says the Sergeant . 
Both together ! says Mrs. Yolland . 
Three and sixpence for the two . 
Given away , ma'am , says the Sergeant , shaking his head . 
The tin case and the dog chains were all she bought , and all she took away . 
One and ninepence and three and sixpence total , five and three . 
With my love and respects and I can't find it in my conscience to take a poor girl's savings , when she may want them herself . 
I can't find it in MY conscience , ma'am , to give the money back , says Sergeant Cuff . 
You have as good as made her a present of the things you have indeed . 
Is that your sincere opinion , sir ? says Mrs. Yolland brightening up wonderfully . 
There can't be a doubt about it , answered the Sergeant . 
It was no use asking ME . 
All they got out of ME was , Good night . 
Bother the money ! says Mrs. Yolland . 
Explain it how you may , I felt as if one or both of them had mortally offended me . 
Before I had taken three steps down the village , I heard the Sergeant behind me . 
Thank you for your introduction , Mr. Betteredge , he said . 
I am indebted to the fisherman's wife for an entirely new sensation . 
Mrs. Yolland has puzzled me . 
But when he owned to being puzzled , a comforting doubt crossed my mind whether any great harm had been done after all . 
I waited in discreet silence to hear more . 
Yes , says the Sergeant , as if he was actually reading my thoughts in the dark . 
, that you have been the means of throwing me off . 
What the girl has done , to night , is clear enough , of course . 
She has joined the two chains , and has fastened them to the hasp in the tin case . 
She has sunk the case , in the water or in the quicksand . 
She has made the loose end of the chain fast to some place under the rocks , known only to herself . 
All perfectly plain , so far . 
The whole experience of my life is at fault , if Rosanna Spearman has got the Diamond . 
On hearing those words , the infernal detective fever began , I suppose , to burn in me again . 
At any rate , I forgot myself in the interest of guessing this new riddle . 
I said rashly , The stained dress ! Sergeant Cuff stopped short in the dark , and laid his hand on my arm . 
Is anything thrown into that quicksand of yours , ever thrown up on the surface again ? he asked . 
Light or heavy whatever goes into the Shivering Sand is sucked down , and seen no more . 
Does Rosanna Spearman know that ? She knows it as well as I do . 
It's a risk to leave the house , as things are now but it's a worse risk still to stir another step in this matter in the dark . 
Excuse my being a little out of temper I'm degraded in my own estimation I have let Rosanna Spearman puzzle me . 
When we got back , the servants were at supper . 
The first person we saw in the outer yard was the policeman whom Superintendent Seegrave had left at the Sergeant's disposal . 
The Sergeant asked if Rosanna Spearman had returned . 
When ? Nearly an hour since . 
What had she done ? She had gone up stairs to take off her bonnet and cloak and she was now at supper quietly with the rest . 
Without making any remark , Sergeant Cuff walked on , sinking lower and lower in his own estimation , to the back of the house . 
till he was stopped by a wicket gate which led into the garden . 
Isn't that Miss Verinder's room ? asked Sergeant Cuff . 
I replied that it was , and invited him to go in with me to supper . 
The Sergeant remained in his place , and said something about enjoying the smell of the garden at night . 
I left him to his enjoyment . 
Just as I was turning in at the door , I heard The Last Rose of Summer at the wicket gate . 
Is there anything you don't understand up there ? I added , pointing to Miss Rachel's window . 
Judging by his voice , Sergeant Cuff had suddenly risen again to the right place in his own estimation . 
You are great people for betting in Yorkshire , are you not ? he asked . 
If I won on that event , I should offer to lay another sovereign , that the idea has occurred to her within the last hour . 
The first of the Sergeant's guesses startled me . 
The second mixed itself up somehow in my head with the report we had heard from the policeman , that Rosanna Spearman had returned from the sands with in the last hour . 
The two together had a curious effect on me as we went in to supper . 
I shook off Sergeant Cuff's arm , and , forgetting my manners , pushed by him through the door to make my own inquiries for myself . 
Samuel , the footman , was the first person I met in the passage . 
Her ladyship is waiting to see you and Sergeant Cuff , he said , before I could put any questions to him . 
How long has she been waiting ? asked the Sergeant's voice behind me . 
For the last hour , sir . 
I went on upstairs , without looking at Sergeant Cuff , or speaking to him . 
My hand took a sudden fit of trembling as I lifted it to knock at my mistress's door . 
I shouldn't be surprised , whispered the Sergeant over my shoulder , if a scandal was to burst up in the house to night . 
Don't be alarmed ! I have put the muzzle on worse family difficulties than this , in my time . 
As he said the words I heard my mistress's voice calling to us to come in . 
CHAPTER XVI We found my lady with no light in the room but the reading lamp . 
The shade was screwed down so as to overshadow her face . 
Instead of looking up at us in her usual straightforward way , she sat close at the table , and kept her eyes fixed obstinately on an open book . 
I have to tell you , then , that Miss Verinder proposes going to stay with her aunt , Mrs. Ablewhite , of Frizinghall . 
She has arranged to leave us the first thing to morrow morning . 
Sergeant Cuff looked at me . 
, took a step back again , and said nothing . 
May I ask your ladyship WHEN Miss Verinder informed you that she was going to her aunt's ? inquired the Sergeant . 
About an hour since , answered my mistress . 
Sergeant Cuff looked at me once more . 
They say old people's hearts are not very easily moved . 
All I can ask you to do is to put off her departure , if possible , till later in the day . 
I must go to Frizinghall myself to morrow morning and I shall be back by two o'clock , if not before . 
If Miss Verinder can be kept here till that time , I should wish to say two words to her unexpectedly before she goes . 
My lady directed me to give the coachman her orders , that the carriage was not to come for Miss Rachel until two o'clock . 
Have you more to say ? she asked of the Sergeant , when this had been done . 
Only one thing , your ladyship . 
If Miss Verinder is surprised at this change in the arrangements , please not to mention Me as being the cause of putting off her journey . 
That's a wonderful woman , said Sergeant Cuff , when we were out in the hall again . 
But for her self control , the mystery that puzzles you , Mr. Betteredge , would have been at an end to night . 
At those words , the truth rushed at last into my stupid old head . 
For the moment , I suppose I must have gone clean out of my senses . 
I seized the Sergeant by the collar of his coat , and pinned him against the wall . 
Ah , he said , you've guessed it at last . 
My hand dropped from his collar , and my head sunk on my breast . 
Please to remember , as some excuse for my breaking out as I did , that I had served the family for fifty years . 
Miss Rachel had climbed upon my knees , and pulled my whiskers , many and many a time when she was a child . 
Miss Rachel , with all her faults , had been , to my mind , the dearest and prettiest and best young mistress that ever an old servant waited on , and loved . 
I begged Sergeant's Cuff's pardon , but I am afraid I did it with watery eyes , and not in a very becoming way . 
Don't distress yourself , Mr. Betteredge , says the Sergeant , with more kindness than I had any right to expect from him . 
In my line of life if we were quick at taking offence , we shouldn't be worth salt to our porridge . 
If it's any comfort to you , collar me again . 
You don't in the least know how to do it but I'll overlook your awkwardness in consideration of your feelings . 
He curled up at the corners of his lips , and , in his own dreary way , seemed to think he had delivered himself of a very good joke . 
I led him into my own little sitting room , and closed the door . 
Tell me the truth , Sergeant , I said . 
What do you suspect ? It's no kindness to hide it from me now . 
I don't suspect , said Sergeant Cuff . 
My unlucky temper began to get the better of me again . 
There is the whole case in a nutshell . 
Collar me again , Mr. Betteredge . 
If it's any vent to your feelings , collar me again . 
God help me ! my feelings were not to be relieved in that way . 
Give me your reasons ! That was all I could say to him . 
You shall hear my reasons to morrow , said the Sergeant . 
, I shall be obliged to lay the whole case before your mistress to morrow . 
And , as I don't know what may come of it , I shall request you to be present , and to hear what passes on both sides . 
Let the matter rest for to night . 
No , Mr. Betteredge , you don't get a word more on the subject of the Moonstone out of me . 
There is your table spread for supper . 
That's one of the many human infirmities which I always treat tenderly . 
If you will ring the bell , I'll say grace . 
'For what we are going to receive I wish you a good appetite to it , Sergeant , I said . 
I'll wait and see you served , and then I'll ask you to excuse me , if I go away , and try to get the better of this by myself . 
I saw him served with the best of everything and I shouldn't have been sorry if the best of everything had choked him . 
came in at the same time , with his weekly account . 
The Sergeant got on the subject of roses and the merits of grass walks and gravel walks immediately . 
I left the two together , and went out with a heavy heart . 
Being restless and miserable , and having no particular room to go to , I took a turn on the terrace , and thought it over in peace and quietness by myself . 
It doesn't much matter what my thoughts were . 
With all this , I held firm , notwithstanding , to my belief in Miss Rachel . 
My meditations were interrupted by Samuel . 
He brought me a written message from my mistress . 
Going into the house to get a light to read it by , Samuel remarked that there seemed a change coming in the weather . 
My troubled mind had prevented me from noticing it before . 
But , now my attention was roused , I heard the dogs uneasy , and the wind moaning low . 
Looking up at the sky , I saw the rack of clouds getting blacker and blacker , and hurrying faster and faster over a watery moon . 
Wild weather coming Samuel was right , wild weather coming . 
The message from my lady informed me , that the magistrate at Frizinghall had written to remind her about the three Indians . 
Early in the coming week , the rogues must needs be released , and left free to follow their own devices . 
If we had any more questions to ask them , there was no time to lose . 
Having forgotten to mention this , when she had last seen Sergeant Cuff , my mistress now desired me to supply the omission . 
I didn't see much use in stirring that subject again . 
However , I obeyed my orders on the spot , as a matter of course . 
I found Sergeant Cuff and the gardener , with a bottle of Scotch whisky between them , head over ears in an argument on the growing of roses . 
The Sergeant was so deeply interested that he held up his hand , and signed to me not to interrupt the discussion , when I came in . 
Mr. Begbie said , Yes and Sergeant Cuff said , No. They appealed to me , as hotly as a couple of boys . 
Gentlemen , I remarked , there is much to be said on both sides . 
In the temporary lull produced by that impartial sentence , I laid my lady's written message on the table , under the eyes of Sergeant Cuff . 
I had got by this time , as nearly as might be , to hate the Sergeant . 
But truth compels me to acknowledge that , in respect of readiness of mind , he was a wonderful man . 
A certain great traveller , who understood the Indians and their language , had figured in Mr. Seegrave's report , hadn't he ? Very well . 
Did I know the gentleman's name and address ? Very well again . 
Would I write them on the back of my lady's message ? Much obliged to me . 
Sergeant Cuff would look that gentleman up , when he went to Frizinghall in the morning . 
Do you expect anything to come of it ? I asked . 
Superintendent Seegrave found the Indians as innocent as the babe unborn . 
Superintendent Seegrave has been proved wrong , up to this time , in all his conclusions , answered the Sergeant . 
It may be worth while to find out to morrow whether Superintendent Seegrave was wrong about the Indians as well . 
With that he turned to Mr. Begbie , and took up the argument again exactly at the place where it had left off . 
This question between us is a question of soils and seasons , and patience and pains , Mr. Gardener . 
Now let me put it to you from another point of view . 
You take your white moss rose By that time , I had closed the door on them , and was out of hearing of the rest of the dispute . 
In the passage , I met Penelope hanging about , and asked what she was waiting for . 
She was waiting for her young lady's bell , when her young lady chose to call her back to go on with the packing for the next day's journey . 
On being informed , half an hour since , that her departure would be delayed till two in the afternoon , she had flown into a violent passion . 
had sent Penelope out of the room . 
My girl was in wretchedly low spirits about the changed state of things in the house . 
Nothing goes right , father nothing is like what it used to be . 
I feel as if some dreadful misfortune was hanging over us all . 
That was my feeling too . 
But I put a good face on it , before my daughter . 
Miss Rachel's bell rang while we were talking . 
Penelope ran up the back stairs to go on with the packing . 
I went by the other way to the hall , to see what the glass said about the change in the weather . 
What's the matter , my girl ? I asked , stopping her . 
Are you ill ? For God's sake , don't speak to me , she answered , and twisted herself out of my hands , and ran on towards the servants' staircase . 
I called to the cook to look after the poor girl . 
Two other persons proved to be within hearing , as well as the cook . 
Sergeant Cuff darted softly out of my room , and asked what was the matter . 
Mr. Franklin , on the other side , pulled open the swing door , and beckoning me into the hall , inquired if I had seen anything of Rosanna Spearman . 
She has just passed me , sir , with a very disturbed face , and in a very odd manner . 
I am afraid I am innocently the cause of that disturbance , Betteredge . 
Looking towards the swing door , as he said those last words , I fancied I saw it opened a little way from the inner side . 
Was there anybody listening ? The door fell to , before I could get to it . 
Looking through , the moment after , I thought I saw the tails of Sergeant Cuff's respectable black coat disappearing round the corner of the passage . 
He knew , as well as I did , that he could expect no more help from me , now that I had discovered the turn which his investigations were really taking . 
Under those circumstances , it was quite in his character to help himself , and to do it by the underground way . 
Were you passing through the hall , sir ? I asked . 
Did you meet her accidentally , when she spoke to you ? Mr. Franklin pointed to the billiard table . 
I was knocking the balls about , he said , and trying to get this miserable business of the Diamond out of my mind . 
Seeing a very anxious expression in her face , I asked her if she wished to speak to me . 
She answered , Yes , if I dare . 
Knowing what suspicion attached to her , I could only put one construction on such language as that . 
I confess it made me uncomfortable . 
I had no wish to invite the girl's confidence . 
It was an awkward position and I dare say I got out of it awkwardly enough . 
I said to her , I don't quite understand you . 
Is there anything you want me to do ? Mind , Betteredge , I didn't speak unkindly ! The poor girl can't help being ugly I felt that , at the time . 
The cue was still in my hand , and I went on knocking the balls about , to take off the awkwardness of the thing . 
As it turned out , I only made matters worse still . 
I'm afraid I mortified her without meaning it ! She suddenly turned away . 
He looks at the billiard balls , I heard her say . 
Anything rather than look at ME ! Before I could stop her , she had left the hall . 
I am not quite easy about it , Betteredge . 
Not from any ill will to the poor girl but He stopped there , and going back to the billiard table , began to knock the balls about once more . 
After what had passed between the Sergeant and me , I knew what it was that he had left unspoken as well as he knew it himself . 
Nothing but the tracing of the Moonstone to our second housemaid could now raise Miss Rachel above the infamous suspicion that rested on her in the mind of Sergeant Cuff . 
It was no longer a question of quieting my young lady's nervous excitement it was a question of proving her innocence . 
If Rosanna had done nothing to compromise herself , the hope which Mr. Franklin confessed to having felt would have been hard enough on her in all conscience . 
But this was not the case . 
She had pretended to be ill , and had gone secretly to Frizinghall . 
She had been up all night , making something or destroying something , in private . 
And she had been at the Shivering Sand , that evening , under circumstances which were highly suspicious , to say the least of them . 
I could not but think that Mr. Franklin's way of looking at the matter was neither unnatural nor unreasonable , in Mr. Franklin's position . 
I said a word to him to that effect . 
Yes , yes ! he said in return . 
But there is just a chance a very poor one , certainly that Rosanna's conduct may admit of some explanation which we don't see at present . 
I hate hurting a woman's feelings , Betteredge ! Tell the poor creature what I told you to tell her . 
And if she wants to speak to me I don't care whether I get into a scrape or not send her to me in the library . 
With those kind words he laid down the cue and left me . 
Inquiry at the servants' offices informed me that Rosanna had retired to her own room . 
She had declined all offers of assistance with thanks , and had only asked to be left to rest in quiet . 
I reported the result to Mr. Franklin , who , thereupon , left the library , and went up to bed . 
I was putting the lights out , and making the windows fast , when Samuel came in with news of the two guests whom I had left in my room . 
The argument about the white moss rose had apparently come to an end at last . 
The gardener had gone home , and Sergeant Cuff was nowhere to be found in the lower regions of the house . 
I looked into my room . 
Quite true nothing was to be discovered there but a couple of empty tumblers and a strong smell of hot grog . 
Had the Sergeant gone of his own accord to the bed chamber that was prepared for him ? I went up stairs to see . 
After reaching the second landing , I thought I heard a sound of quiet and regular breathing on my left hand side . 
My left hand side led to the corridor which communicated with Miss Rachel's room . 
Good night , Mr. Betteredge , he said . 
There was a coincidence , this evening , between the period of Rosanna Spearman's return from the Sands and the period when Miss Verinder stated her resolution to leave the house . 
Whatever Rosanna may have hidden , it's clear to my mind that your young lady couldn't go away until she knew that it WAS hidden . 
The two must have communicated privately once already to night . 
If they try to communicate again , when the house is quiet , I want to be in the way , and stop it . 
Don't blame me for upsetting your sleeping arrangements , Mr. Betteredge blame the Diamond . 
I wish to God the Diamond had never found its way into this house ! I broke out . 
Sergeant Cuff looked with a rueful face at the three chairs on which he had condemned himself to pass the night . 
So do I , he said , gravely . 
no attempt at communication between Miss Rachel and Rosanna rewarded the vigilance of Sergeant Cuff . 
I had expected the Sergeant to set off for Frizinghall the first thing in the morning . 
He waited about , however , as if he had something else to do first . 
I left him to his own devices and going into the grounds shortly after , met Mr. Franklin on his favourite walk by the shrubbery side . 
Before we had exchanged two words , the Sergeant unexpectedly joined us . 
He made up to Mr. Franklin , who received him , I must own , haughtily enough . 
Have you anything to say to me ? was all the return he got for politely wishing Mr. Franklin good morning . 
I have something to say to you , sir , answered the Sergeant , on the subject of the inquiry I am conducting here . 
You detected the turn that inquiry was really taking , yesterday . 
Naturally enough , in your position , you are shocked and distressed . 
Naturally enough , also , you visit your own angry sense of your own family scandal upon Me . 
What do you want ? Mr. Franklin broke in , sharply enough . 
I want to remind you , sir , that I have at any rate , thus far , not been PROVED to be wrong . 
Sergeant Cuff put that answer by him , as if no answer had been made . 
You may save my time , sir , from being wasted on an inquiry at a distance , he went on , if you choose to understand me and speak out . 
I don't understand you , answered Mr. Franklin and I have nothing to say . 
spoke to you privately , sir , last night . 
Once more Mr. Franklin cut him short once more Mr. Franklin answered , I have nothing to say . 
Standing by in silence , I thought of the movement in the swing door on the previous evening , and of the coat tails which I had seen disappearing down the passage . 
Sergeant Cuff had , no doubt , just heard enough , before I interrupted him , to make him suspect that Rosanna had relieved her mind by confessing something to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
Seeing that Mr. Franklin was not alone , Rosanna came to a standstill , evidently in great perplexity what to do next . 
Mr. Franklin saw the girls as soon as I saw them . 
The Sergeant , with his devilish cunning , took on not to have noticed them at all . 
All this happened in an instant . 
Before either Mr. Franklin or I could say a word , Sergeant Cuff struck in smoothly , with an appearance of continuing the previous conversation . 
You needn't be afraid of harming the girl , sir , he said to Mr. Franklin , speaking in a loud voice , so that Rosanna might hear him . 
On the contrary , I recommend you to honour me with your confidence , if you feel any interest in Rosanna Spearman . 
Mr. Franklin instantly took on not to have noticed the girls either . 
He answered , speaking loudly on his side I take no interest whatever in Rosanna Spearman . 
I looked towards the end of the walk . 
All I saw at the distance was that Rosanna suddenly turned round , the moment Mr. Franklin had spoken . 
Instead of resisting Penelope , as she had done the moment before , she now let my daughter take her by the arm and lead her back to the house . 
He went his way without a word more and for some few hours we were well rid of him . 
You must make it right with Rosanna , Mr. Franklin said to me , when we were alone . 
I seem to be fated to say or do something awkward , before that unlucky girl . 
You must have seen yourself that Sergeant Cuff laid a trap for both of us . 
If he could confuse ME , or irritate HER into breaking out , either she or I might have said something which would answer his purpose . 
On the spur of the moment , I saw no better way out of it than the way I took . 
It stopped the girl from saying anything , and it showed the Sergeant that I saw through him . 
He was evidently listening , Betteredge , when I was speaking to you last night . 
He had done worse than listen , as I privately thought to myself . 
, we shall all be rowing in the same boat if this sort of thing goes on much longer . 
Prying , and peeping , and listening are the natural occupations of people situated as we are . 
Excuse my breaking out , sir . 
The horrid mystery hanging over us in this house gets into my head like liquor , and makes me wild . 
I won't forget what you have told me . 
I'll take the first opportunity of making it right with Rosanna Spearman . 
You haven't said anything to her yet about last night , have you ? Mr. Franklin asked . 
I had better not invite the girl's confidence , with the Sergeant on the look out to surprise us together . 
And yet I can't , and won't , help Sergeant Cuff to find the girl out . 
Unreasonable enough , no doubt . 
But it was my state of mind as well . 
If you will , for once in your life , remember that you are mortal , perhaps you will thoroughly understand him too . 
My lady and Mr. Franklin breakfasted together . 
After breakfast , Mr. Franklin took one of his sudden resolutions , and went out precipitately to quiet his mind by a long walk . 
I was the only person who saw him go and he told me he should be back before the Sergeant returned . 
The change in the weather , foreshadowed overnight , had come . 
Heavy rain had been followed soon after dawn , by high wind . 
It was blowing fresh , as the day got on . 
But though the clouds threatened more than once , the rain still held off . 
It was not a bad day for a walk , if you were young and strong , and could breast the great gusts of wind which came sweeping in from the sea . 
I attended my lady after breakfast , and assisted her in the settlement of our household accounts . 
She only once alluded to the matter of the Moonstone , and that was in the way of forbidding any present mention of it between us . 
Wait till that man comes back , she said , meaning the Sergeant . 
We MUST speak of it then we are not obliged to speak of it now . 
After leaving my mistress , I found Penelope waiting for me in my room . 
I wish , father , you would come and speak to Rosanna , she said . 
I am very uneasy about her . 
I suspected what was the matter readily enough . 
are bound to improve women if they can . 
, I always insist on knowing why . 
The oftener you make them rummage their own minds for a reason , the more manageable you will find them in all the relations of life . 
that they act first and think afterwards it's the fault of the fools who humour them . 
Penelope's reason why , on this occasion , may be given in her own words . 
I am afraid , father , she said , Mr. Franklin has hurt Rosanna cruelly , without intending it . 
What took Rosanna into the shrubbery walk ? I asked . 
Her own madness , says Penelope I can call it nothing else . 
She was bent on speaking to Mr. Franklin , this morning , come what might of it . 
I did my best to stop her you saw that . 
If I could only have got her away before she heard those dreadful words There ! there ! I said , don't lose your head . 
I can't call to mind that anything happened to alarm Rosanna . 
Nothing to alarm her , father . 
I told her that , says Penelope . 
It's quite monstrous that she should forget herself and her station in that way . 
But she seems to have lost pride , and proper feeling , and everything . 
She frightened me , father , when Mr. Franklin said those words . 
They seemed to turn her into stone . 
A sudden quiet came over her , and she has gone about her work , ever since , like a woman in a dream . 
I began to feel a little uneasy . 
There was something in the way Penelope put it which silenced my superior sense . 
I called to mind , now my thoughts were directed that way , what had passed between Mr. Franklin and Rosanna overnight . 
She looked cut to the heart on that occasion and now , as ill luck would have it , she had been unavoidably stung again , poor soul , on the tender place . 
Sad ! sad ! all the more sad because the girl had no reason to justify her , and no right to feel it . 
I had promised Mr. Franklin to speak to Rosanna , and this seemed the fittest time for keeping my word . 
We found the girl sweeping the corridor outside the bedrooms , pale and composed , and neat as ever in her modest print dress . 
I noticed a curious dimness and dullness in her eyes not as if she had been crying but as if she had been looking at something too long . 
Possibly , it was a misty something raised by her own thoughts . 
There was certainly no object about her to look at which she had not seen already hundreds on hundreds of times . 
Cheer up , Rosanna ! I said . 
You mustn't fret over your own fancies . 
I have got something to say to you from Mr. Franklin . 
I thereupon put the matter in the right view before her , in the friendliest and most comforting words I could find . 
My principles , in regard to the other sex , are , as you may have noticed , very severe . 
Mr. Franklin is very kind and considerate . 
That was all the answer she made me . 
My daughter had already noticed that Rosanna went about her work like a woman in a dream . 
I now added to this observation , that she also listened and spoke like a woman in a dream . 
I doubted if her mind was in a fit condition to take in what I had said to her . 
Are you quite sure , Rosanna , that you understand me ? I asked . 
She echoed me , not like a living woman , but like a creature moved by machinery . 
She went on sweeping all the time . 
I took away the broom as gently and as kindly as I could . 
Come , come , my girl ! I said , this is not like yourself . 
You have got something on your mind . 
I'm your friend and I'll stand your friend , even if you have done wrong . 
I could see no change in them now . 
Yes , she said , I'll make a clean breast of it . 
To my lady ? I asked . 
No. To Mr. Franklin ? Yes to Mr. Franklin . 
I hardly knew what to say to that . 
She was in no condition to understand the caution against speaking to him in private , which Mr. Franklin had directed me to give her . 
Feeling my way , little by little , I only told her Mr. Franklin had gone out for a walk . 
It doesn't matter , she answered . 
I shan't trouble Mr. Franklin , to day . 
Why not speak to my lady ? I said . 
The way to relieve your mind is to speak to the merciful and Christian mistress who has always been kind to you . 
She looked at me for a moment with a grave and steady attention , as if she was fixing what I said in her mind . 
Then she took the broom out of my hands and moved off with it slowly , a little way down the corridor . 
No , she said , going on with her sweeping , and speaking to herself I know a better way of relieving my mind than that . 
What is it ? Please to let me go on with my work . 
Penelope followed her , and offered to help her . 
She answered , No. I want to do my work . 
She looked round at me . 
Thank you , Mr. Betteredge . 
There was no moving her there was nothing more to be said . 
I signed to Penelope to come away with me . 
We left her , as we had found her , sweeping the corridor , like a woman in a dream . 
This is a matter for the doctor to look into , I said . 
to the chill he had caught on the night of the dinner party . 
His assistant a certain Mr. Ezra Jennings was at our disposal , to be sure . 
But nobody knew much about him in our parts . 
He had been engaged by Mr. Candy under rather peculiar circumstances and , right or wrong , we none of us liked him or trusted him . 
There were other doctors at Frizinghall . 
But they were strangers to our house and Penelope doubted , in Rosanna's present state , whether strangers might not do her more harm than good . 
I thought of speaking to my lady . 
But , remembering the heavy weight of anxiety which she already had on her mind , I hesitated to add to all the other vexations this new trouble . 
Still , there was a necessity for doing something . 
The girl's state was , to my thinking , downright alarming and my mistress ought to be informed of it . 
Unwilling enough , I went to her sitting room . 
My lady was shut up with Miss Rachel . 
It was impossible for me to see her till she came out again . 
I waited in vain till the clock on the front staircase struck the quarter to two . 
Five minutes afterwards , I heard my name called , from the drive outside the house . 
I knew the voice directly . 
Sergeant Cuff had returned from Frizinghall . 
CHAPTER XVIII Going down to the front door , I met the Sergeant on the steps . 
It went against the grain with me , after what had passed between us , to show him that I felt any sort of interest in his proceedings . 
In spite of myself , however , I felt an interest that there was no resisting . 
My sense of dignity sank from under me , and out came the words What news from Frizinghall ? I have seen the Indians , answered Sergeant Cuff . 
And I have found out what Rosanna bought privately in the town , on Thursday last . 
The Indians will be set free on Wednesday in next week . 
There isn't a doubt on my mind , and there isn't a doubt on Mr. Murthwaite's mind , that they came to this place to steal the Moonstone . 
But I can tell you one thing , Mr. Betteredge if WE don't find the Moonstone , THEY will . 
You have not heard the last of the three jugglers yet . 
Mr. Franklin came back from his walk as the Sergeant said those startling words . 
Governing his curiosity better than I had governed mine , he passed us without a word , and went on into the house . 
As for me , having already dropped my dignity , I determined to have the whole benefit of the sacrifice . 
So much for the Indians , I said . 
What about Rosanna next ? Sergeant Cuff shook his head . 
The mystery in that quarter is thicker than ever , he said . 
I have traced her to a shop at Frizinghall , kept by a linen draper named Maltby . 
She bought nothing whatever at any of the other drapers' shops , or at any milliners' or tailors' shops and she bought nothing at Maltby's but a piece of long cloth . 
She was very particular in choosing a certain quality . 
As to quantity , she bought enough to make a nightgown . 
Whose nightgown ? I asked . 
Her own , to be sure . 
In going back to her own room , her nightgown must have brushed the wet paint on the door . 
She couldn't wash out the stain and she couldn't safely destroy the night gown without first providing another like it , to make the inventory of her linen complete . 
What proves that it was Rosanna's nightgown ? I objected . 
The material she bought for making the substitute dress , answered the Sergeant . 
Plain long cloth means a plain servant's nightgown . 
No , no , Mr. Betteredge all that is clear enough . 
The hiding place at the Shivering Sand must be searched and the true state of the case will be discovered there . 
How are you to find the place ? I inquired . 
I am sorry to disappoint you , said the Sergeant but that's a secret which I mean to keep to myself . 
Now , Mr. Betteredge , he went on , suppose we drop speculation , and get to business . 
I told Joyce to have an eye on Rosanna . 
Where is Joyce ? Joyce was the Frizinghall policeman , who had been left by Superintendent Seegrave at Sergeant Cuff's disposal . 
The clock struck two , as he put the question and , punctual to the moment , the carriage came round to take Miss Rachel to her aunt's . 
One thing at a time , said the Sergeant , stopping me as I was about to send in search of Joyce . 
I must attend to Miss Verinder first . 
As the rain was still threatening , it was the close carriage that had been appointed to take Miss Rachel to Frizinghall . 
Sergeant Cuff beckoned Samuel to come down to him from the rumble behind . 
You will see a friend of mine waiting among the trees , on this side of the lodge gate , he said . 
My friend , without stopping the carriage , will get up into the rumble with you . 
You have nothing to do but to hold your tongue , and shut your eyes . 
Otherwise , you will get into trouble . 
With that advice , he sent the footman back to his place . 
What Samuel thought I don't know . 
It was plain , to my mind , that Miss Rachel was to be privately kept in view from the time when she left our house if she did leave it . 
The first person to come out of the house was my lady . 
She stood aside , on the top step , posting herself there to see what happened . 
Not a word did she say , either to the Sergeant or to me . 
In a minute more , Miss Rachel came downstairs very nicely dressed in some soft yellow stuff , that set off her dark complexion , and clipped her tight round the waist . 
She had a smart little straw hat on her head , with a white veil twisted round it . 
She had primrose coloured gloves that fitted her hands like a second skin . 
Her beautiful black hair looked as smooth as satin under her hat . 
Her little ears were like rosy shells they had a pearl dangling from each of them . 
She came swiftly out to us , as straight as a lily on its stem , and as lithe and supple in every movement she made as a young cat . 
Nothing that I could discover was altered in her pretty face , but her eyes and her lips . 
Her eyes were brighter and fiercer than I liked to see and her lips had so completely lost their colour and their smile that I hardly knew them again . 
She kissed her mother in a hasty and sudden manner on the cheek . 
She said , Try to forgive me , mamma and then pulled down her veil over her face so vehemently that she tore it . 
In another moment she had run down the steps , and had rushed into the carriage as if it was a hiding place . 
Sergeant Cuff was just as quick on his side . 
He put Samuel back , and stood before Miss Rachel , with the open carriage door in his hand , at the instant when she settled herself in her place . 
What do you want ? says Miss Rachel , from behind her veil . 
I want to say one word to you , miss , answered the Sergeant , before you go . 
I can't presume to stop your paying a visit to your aunt . 
I can only venture to say that your leaving us , as things are now , puts an obstacle in the way of my recovering your Diamond . 
Please to understand that and now decide for yourself whether you go or stay . 
Miss Rachel never even answered him . 
Drive on , James ! she called out to the coachman . 
Without another word , the Sergeant shut the carriage door . 
Just as he closed it , Mr. Franklin came running down the steps . 
Good bye , Rachel , he said , holding out his hand . 
Drive on ! cried Miss Rachel , louder than ever , and taking no more notice of Mr. Franklin than she had taken of Sergeant Cuff . 
Mr. Franklin stepped back thunderstruck , as well he might be . 
The coachman , not knowing what to do , looked towards my lady , still standing immovable on the top step . 
My lady , with anger and sorrow and shame all struggling together in her face , made him a sign to start the horses , and then turned back hastily into the house . 
Mr. Franklin , recovering the use of his speech , called after her , as the carriage drove off , Aunt ! you were quite right . 
Accept my thanks for all your kindness and let me go . 
My lady turned as though to speak to him . 
Then , as if distrusting herself , waved her hand kindly . 
Let me see you , before you leave us , Franklin , she said , in a broken voice and went on to her own room . 
Do me a last favour , Betteredge , says Mr. Franklin , turning to me , with the tears in his eyes . 
Get me away to the train as soon as you can ! He too went his way into the house . 
For the moment , Miss Rachel had completely unmanned him . 
Judge from that , how fond he must have been of her ! Sergeant Cuff and I were left face to face , at the bottom of the steps . 
The Sergeant stood with his face set towards a gap in the trees , commanding a view of one of the windings of the drive which led from the house . 
He had his hands in his pockets , and he was softly whistling The Last Rose of Summer to himself . 
There's a time for everything , I said savagely enough . 
This isn't a time for whistling . 
At that moment , the carriage appeared in the distance , through the gap , on its way to the lodge gate . 
There was another man , besides Samuel , plainly visible in the rumble behind . 
All right ! said the Sergeant to himself . 
He turned round to me . 
It's no time for whistling , Mr. Betteredge , as you say . 
It's time to take this business in hand , now , without sparing anybody . 
We'll begin with Rosanna Spearman . 
Where is Joyce ? We both called for Joyce , and received no answer . 
I sent one of the stable boys to look for him . 
You heard what I said to Miss Verinder ? remarked the Sergeant , while we were waiting . 
I only held on like death to my belief in Miss Rachel . 
The stable boy came back , followed very unwillingly , as it appeared to me by Joyce . 
Where is Rosanna Spearman ? asked Sergeant Cuff . 
I can't account for it , sir , Joyce began and I am very sorry . 
There are such a many passages in the lower parts of this house How long is it since you missed her ? Nigh on an hour since , sir . 
You can go back to your regular business at Frizinghall , said the Sergeant , speaking just as composedly as ever , in his usual quiet and dreary way . 
I don't think your talents are at all in our line , Mr. Joyce . 
Your present form of employment is a trifle beyond you . 
I find it very difficult to describe how I was affected by the discovery that Rosanna Spearman was missing . 
I seemed to be in fifty different minds about it , all at the same time . 
In that state , I stood staring at Sergeant Cuff and my powers of language quite failed me . 
No , Mr. Betteredge , said the Sergeant , as if he had discovered the uppermost thought in me , and was picking it out to be answered , before all the rest . 
Your young friend , Rosanna , won't slip through my fingers so easy as you think . 
As long as I know where Miss Verinder is , I have the means at my disposal of tracing Miss Verinder's accomplice . 
I prevented them from communicating last night . 
They will get together at Frizinghall , instead of getting together here . 
from this house , to the house at which Miss Verinder is visiting . 
In the meantime , I'm afraid I must trouble you to call the servants together again . 
I went round with him to the servants' hall . 
It is very disgraceful , but it is not the less true , that I had another attack of the detective fever , when he said those last words . 
I forgot that I hated Sergeant Cuff . 
I seized him confidentially by the arm . 
This is how it stands , he said , dropping down again to business . 
Rosanna has done one of two things . 
, or she has gone first to visit her hiding place at the Shivering Sand . 
The first thing to find out is , which of the servants saw the last of her before she left the house . 
On instituting this inquiry , it turned out that the last person who had set eyes on Rosanna was Nancy , the kitchenmaid . 
Nancy had seen her slip out with a letter in her hand , and stop the butcher's man who had just been delivering some meat at the back door . 
Nancy had heard her ask the man to post the letter when he got back to Frizinghall . 
The only thing she wished to be sure of was that the man would do what she told him . 
The man had promised to do it , and had driven away . 
Nancy had been called back to her work in the kitchen . 
And no other person had seen anything afterwards of Rosanna Spearman . 
Well ? I asked , when we were alone again . 
Well , says the Sergeant . 
I must go to Frizinghall . 
About the letter , sir ? Yes . 
The memorandum of the hiding place is in that letter . 
I must see the address at the post office . 
If it is the address I suspect , I shall pay our friend , Mrs. Yolland , another visit on Monday next . 
I went with the Sergeant to order the pony chaise . 
In the stable yard we got a new light thrown on the missing girl . 
CHAPTER XIX The news of Rosanna's disappearance had , as it appeared , spread among the out of door servants . 
Duffy was certain that the girl had passed him in the fir plantation , not walking , but RUNNING , in the direction of the sea shore . 
Does this boy know the coast hereabouts ? asked Sergeant Cuff . 
He has been born and bred on the coast , I answered . 
Duffy ! says the Sergeant , do you want to earn a shilling ? If you do , come along with me . 
Keep the pony chaise ready , Mr. Betteredge , till I come back . 
had no hope of matching . 
Little Duffy , as the way is with the young savages in our parts when they are in high spirits , gave a howl , and trotted off at the Sergeant's heels . 
Here again , I find it impossible to give anything like a clear account of the state of my mind in the interval after Sergeant Cuff had left us . 
A curious and stupefying restlessness got possession of me . 
I did a dozen different needless things in and out of the house , not one of which I can now remember . 
I don't even know how long it was after the Sergeant had gone to the sands , when Duffy came running back with a message for me . 
I despatched the first woman servant I could find to Rosanna's room and I sent the boy back to say that I myself would follow him with the boot . 
This , I am well aware , was not the quickest way to take of obeying the directions which I had received . 
But I was resolved to see for myself what new mystification was going on before I trusted Rosanna's boot in the Sergeant's hands . 
My old notion of screening the girl , if I could , seemed to have come back on me again , at the eleventh hour . 
hurried me off , as soon as I had got the boot , at the nearest approach to a run which a man turned seventy can reasonably hope to make . 
As I got near the shore , the clouds gathered black , and the rain came down , drifting in great white sheets of water before the wind . 
I heard the thunder of the sea on the sand bank at the mouth of the bay . 
A little further on , I passed the boy crouching for shelter under the lee of the sand hills . 
He waved his hand towards the north , when he first saw me . 
Keep on that side ! he shouted . 
And come on down here to me ! I went down to him , choking for breath , with my heart leaping as if it was like to leap out of me . 
I had a hundred questions to put to him and not one of them would pass my lips . 
I saw a look in his eyes which was a look of horror . 
The mark was not yet blurred out by the rain and the girl's boot fitted it to a hair . 
The Sergeant pointed to the boot in the footmark , without saying a word . 
I caught at his arm , and tried to speak to him , and failed as I had failed when I tried before . 
He went on , following the footsteps down and down to where the rocks and the sand joined . 
The South Spit was just awash with the flowing tide the waters heaved over the hidden face of the Shivering Sand . 
Hunt as he might , no sign could he find anywhere of the footsteps walking FROM them . 
He gave it up at last . 
Still keeping silence , he looked again at me and then he looked out at the waters before us , heaving in deeper and deeper over the quicksand . 
I looked where he looked and I saw his thought in his face . 
A dreadful dumb trembling crawled all over me on a sudden . 
I fell upon my knees on the beach . 
She has been back at the hiding place , I heard the Sergeant say to himself . 
Some fatal accident has happened to her on those rocks . 
I tried to tell him of the fear that had frozen me up . 
I tried to say , The death she has died , Sergeant , was a death of her own seeking . 
No ! the words wouldn't come . 
The dumb trembling held me in its grip . 
I couldn't feel the driving rain . 
I couldn't see the rising tide . 
As in the vision of a dream , the poor lost creature came back before me . 
I saw her again as I had seen her in the past time on the morning when I went to fetch her into the house . 
I heard her again , telling me that the Shivering Sand seemed to draw her to it against her will , and wondering whether her grave was waiting for her THERE . 
The horror of it struck at me , in some unfathomable way , through my own child . 
My girl was just her age . 
My girl , tried as Rosanna was tried , might have lived that miserable life , and died this dreadful death . 
The Sergeant kindly lifted me up , and turned me away from the sight of the place where she had perished . 
With that relief , I began to fetch my breath again , and to see things about me , as things really were . 
In the fewest words , the Sergeant showed them the evidence of the footmarks , and told them that a fatal accident must have happened to her . 
He then picked out the fisherman from the rest , and put a question to him , turning about again towards the sea Tell me , he said . 
No boat that ever was built , he answered , could have got to her through THAT . 
Sergeant Cuff looked for the last time at the foot marks on the sand , which the rain was now fast blurring out . 
There , he said , is the evidence that she can't have left this place by land . 
And here , he went on , looking at the fisherman , is the evidence that she can't have got away by sea . 
He stopped , and considered for a minute . 
She was seen running towards this place , half an hour before I got here from the house , he said to Yolland . 
Some time has passed since then . 
Call it , altogether , an hour ago . 
As the tide makes to day , said the fisherman , there wouldn't have been water enough to drown a kitten on that side of the Spit , an hour since . 
Sergeant Cuff turned about northward , towards the quicksand . 
How much on this side ? he asked . 
Less still , answered Yolland . 
The Shivering Sand would have been just awash , and no more . 
The Sergeant turned to me , and said that the accident must have happened on the side of the quicksand . 
My tongue was loosened at that . 
No accident ! I told him . 
When she came to this place , she came weary of her life , to end it here . 
He started back from me . 
How do you know ? he asked . 
The rest of them crowded round . 
The Sergeant recovered himself instantly . 
He put them back from me he said I was an old man he said the discovery had shaken me he said , Let him alone a little . 
Then he turned to Yolland , and asked , Is there any chance of finding her , when the tide ebbs again ? And Yolland answered , None . 
What the Sand gets , the Sand keeps for ever . 
Having said that , the fisherman came a step nearer , and addressed himself to me . 
Mr. Betteredge , he said , I have a word to say to you about the young woman's death . 
Four foot out , broadwise , along the side of the Spit , there's a shelf of rock , about half fathom down under the sand . 
She must have waded out , or jumped out , into the Deeps beyond or she wouldn't be missing now . 
No accident , sir ! The Deeps of the Quicksand have got her . 
And they have got her by her own act . 
After that testimony from a man whose knowledge was to be relied on , the Sergeant was silent . 
The rest of us , like him , held our peace . 
With one accord , we all turned back up the slope of the beach . 
At the sand hillocks we were met by the under groom , running to us from the house . 
The lad is a good lad , and has an honest respect for me . 
He handed me a little note , with a decent sorrow in his face . 
Penelope sent me with this , Mr. Betteredge , he said . 
She found it in Rosanna's room . 
It was her last farewell word to the old man who had done his best thank God , always done his best to befriend her . 
You have often forgiven me , Mr. Betteredge , in past times . 
When you next see the Shivering Sand , try to forgive me once more . 
I have found my grave where my grave was waiting for me . 
I have lived , and died , sir , grateful for your kindness . 
There was no more than that . 
Little as it was , I hadn't manhood enough to hold up against it . 
Your tears come easy , when you're young , and beginning the world . 
Your tears come easy , when you're old , and leaving it . 
Sergeant Cuff took a step nearer to me meaning kindly , I don't doubt . 
I shrank back from him . 
Don't touch me , I said . 
It's the dread of you , that has driven her to it . 
You are wrong , Mr. Betteredge , he answered , quietly . 
But there will be time enough to speak of it when we are indoors again . 
I followed the rest of them , with the help of the groom's arm . 
Through the driving rain we went back to meet the trouble and the terror that were waiting for us at the house . 
CHAPTER XX Those in front had spread the news before us . 
We found the servants in a state of panic . 
As we passed my lady's door , it was thrown open violently from the inner side . 
, quite beside herself with the horror of the thing . 
You are answerable for this ! she cried out , threatening the Sergeant wildly with her hand . 
I am no more answerable for this distressing calamity , my lady , than you are , he said . 
If , in half an hour from this , you still insist on my leaving the house , I will accept your ladyship's dismissal , but not your ladyship's money . 
It was spoken very respectfully , but very firmly at the same time and it had its effect on my mistress as well as on me . 
She suffered Mr. Franklin to lead her back into the room . 
When your father has changed his wet clothes , he said to her , come and speak to us , in your father's room . 
Before the half hour was out , I had got my dry clothes on , and had lent Sergeant Cuff such change of dress as he required . 
Penelope came in to us to hear what the Sergeant wanted with her . 
I don't think I ever felt what a good dutiful daughter I had , so strongly as I felt it at that moment . 
I took her and sat her on my knee and I prayed God bless her . 
She hid her head on my bosom , and put her arms round my neck and we waited a little while in silence . 
The poor dead girl must have been at the bottom of it , I think , with my daughter and with me . 
The Sergeant went to the window , and stood there looking out . 
I thought it right to thank him for considering us both in this way and I did . 
People in high life have all the luxuries to themselves among others , the luxury of indulging their feelings . 
People in low life have no such privilege . 
Necessity , which spares our betters , has no pity on us . 
We learn to put our feelings back into ourselves , and to jog on with our duties as patiently as may be . 
I don't complain of this I only notice it . 
Penelope and I were ready for the Sergeant , as soon as the Sergeant was ready on his side . 
Asked if she knew what had led her fellow servant to destroy herself , my daughter answered that it was for love of Mr. Franklin Blake . 
Asked next , if she had mentioned this notion of hers to any other person , Penelope answered , I have not mentioned it , for Rosanna's sake . 
I felt it necessary to add a word to this . 
I said , And for Mr. Franklin's sake , my dear , as well . 
If Rosanna HAS died for love of him , it is not with his knowledge or by his fault . 
Let him leave the house to day , if he does leave it , without the useless pain of knowing the truth . 
with some other notion of his own which he kept to himself . 
At the end of the half hour , my mistress's bell rang . 
On my way to answer it , I met Mr. Franklin coming out of his aunt's sitting room . 
He mentioned that her ladyship was ready to see Sergeant Cuff in my presence as before and he added that he himself wanted to say two words to the Sergeant first . 
On our way back to my room , he stopped , and looked at the railway time table in the hall . 
Are you really going to leave us , sir ? I asked . 
I thought he spoke in resentment of my young lady's treatment of him . 
But it was not so . 
My mistress had noticed , from the time when the police first came into the house , that the bare mention of him was enough to set Miss Rachel's temper in a flame . 
He had been too fond of his cousin to like to confess this to himself , until the truth had been forced on him , when she drove off to her aunt's . 
What he had to say to the Sergeant was spoken in my presence . 
He described her ladyship as willing to acknowledge that she had spoken over hastily . 
And he asked if Sergeant Cuff would consent in that case to accept his fee , and to leave the matter of the Diamond where the matter stood now . 
The Sergeant answered , No , sir . 
My fee is paid me for doing my duty . 
I decline to take it , until my duty is done . 
I don't understand you , says Mr. Franklin . 
I'll explain myself , sir , says the Sergeant . 
When I came here , I undertook to throw the necessary light on the matter of the missing Diamond . 
I am now ready , and waiting to redeem my pledge . 
Let her ladyship decide , after that , whether she does , or does not , allow me to go on . 
I shall then have done what I undertook to do and I'll take my fee . 
In those words Sergeant Cuff reminded us that , even in the Detective Police , a man may have a reputation to lose . 
The view he took was so plainly the right one , that there was no more to be said . 
As I rose to conduct him to my lady's room , he asked if Mr. Franklin wished to be present . 
Mr. Franklin answered , Not unless Lady Verinder desires it . 
I left him , miserable enough , leaning on the sill of my window , with his face hidden in his hands and Penelope peeping through the door , longing to comfort him . 
In Mr. Franklin's place , I should have called her in . 
When you are ill used by one woman , there is great comfort in telling it to another because , nine times out of ten , the other always takes your side . 
In the meantime , Sergeant Cuff and I proceeded to my lady's room . 
At the last conference we had held with her , we had found her not over willing to lift her eyes from the book which she had on the table . 
On this occasion there was a change for the better . 
She met the Sergeant's eye with an eye that was as steady as his own . 
CHAPTER XXI The first words , when we had taken our seats , were spoken by my lady . 
Sergeant Cuff , she said , there was perhaps some excuse for the inconsiderate manner in which I spoke to you half an hour since . 
I have no wish , however , to claim that excuse . 
I say , with perfect sincerity , that I regret it , if I wronged you . 
The grace of voice and manner with which she made him that atonement had its due effect on the Sergeant . 
He requested permission to justify himself putting his justification as an act of respect to my mistress . 
He appealed to me to testify whether he had , or had not , carried that object out . 
I could , and did , bear witness that he had . 
And there , as I thought , the matter might have been judiciously left to come to an end . 
with the purpose of forcing the most painful of all possible explanations to take place between her ladyship and himself . 
I have heard a motive assigned for the young woman's suicide , said the Sergeant , which may possibly be the right one . 
It is a motive quite unconnected with the case which I am conducting here . 
I am bound to add , however , that my own opinion points the other way . 
Some unbearable anxiety in connexion with the missing Diamond , has , I believe , driven the poor creature to her own destruction . 
I don't pretend to know what that unbearable anxiety may have been . 
I can lay my hand on a person who is capable of deciding whether I am right or wrong . 
Is the person now in the house ? my mistress asked , after waiting a little . 
The person has left the house , my lady . 
That answer pointed as straight to Miss Rachel as straight could be . 
A silence dropped on us which I thought would never come to an end . 
Do you refer to my daughter ? I do , said Sergeant Cuff , in so many words . 
My mistress had her cheque book on the table when we entered the room no doubt to pay the Sergeant his fee . 
She now put it back in the drawer . 
My nephew has probably said something of this , before you came into my room ? Mr. Blake gave his message , my lady . 
And I gave Mr. Blake a reason It is needless to tell me your reason . 
After what you have just said , you know as well as I do that you have gone too far to go back . 
I owe it to myself , and I owe it to my child , to insist on your remaining here , and to insist on your speaking out . 
The Sergeant looked at his watch . 
If there had been time , my lady , he answered , I should have preferred writing my report , instead of communicating it by word of mouth . 
But , if this inquiry is to go on , time is of too much importance to be wasted in writing . 
I am ready to go into the matter at once . 
It is a very painful matter for me to speak of , and for you to hear There my mistress stopped him once more . 
You suspect Miss Verinder of deceiving us all , by secreting the Diamond for some purpose of her own ? Is that true ? Quite true , my lady . 
Now , before you begin , I have to tell you , as Miss Verinder's mother , that she is ABSOLUTELY INCAPABLE of doing what you suppose her to have done . 
Your knowledge of her character dates from a day or two since . 
My knowledge of her character dates from the beginning of her life . 
State your suspicion of her as strongly as you please it is impossible that you can offend me by doing so . 
the circumstances have fatally misled you in this case . 
Mind ! I am in possession of no private information . 
I am as absolutely shut out of my daughter's confidence as you are . 
My one reason for speaking positively , is the reason you have heard already . 
She turned to me , and gave me her hand . 
I kissed it in silence . 
You may go on , she said , facing the Sergeant again as steadily as ever . 
My mistress had produced but one effect on him . 
His hatchet face softened for a moment , as if he was sorry for her . 
As to shaking him in his own conviction , it was plain to see that she had not moved him by a single inch . 
The Sergeant went on For the last twenty years , he said , I have been largely employed in cases of family scandal , acting in the capacity of confidential man . 
The one result of my domestic practice which has any bearing on the matter now in hand , is a result which I may state in two words . 
It is well within my experience , that young ladies of rank and position do occasionally have private debts which they dare not acknowledge to their nearest relatives and friends . 
Sometimes , the milliner and the jeweller are at the bottom of it . 
Sometimes , the money is wanted for purposes which I don't suspect in this case , and which I won't shock you by mentioning . 
My first information relating to the loss of the Moonstone , said the Sergeant , came to me from Superintendent Seegrave . 
He proved to my complete satisfaction that he was perfectly incapable of managing the case . 
I thought this curious but I attributed it mainly to some clumsiness on the Superintendent's part which might have offended the young lady . 
After that , I put it by in my mind , and applied myself , single handed , to the case . 
So far , if I suspected anything , I suspected that the Moonstone had been stolen , and that one of the servants might prove to be the thief . 
In this state of things , what happens ? Miss Verinder suddenly comes out of her room , and speaks to me . 
I observe three suspicious appearances in that young lady . 
She is still violently agitated , though more than four and twenty hours have passed since the Diamond was lost . 
She treats me as she has already treated Superintendent Seegrave . 
And she is mortally offended with Mr. Franklin Blake . 
is a young lady who has lost a valuable jewel a young lady , also , as my own eyes and ears inform me , who is of an impetuous temperament . 
Having brought my inquiry to that point THEN , my lady , and not till then , I begin to look back into my own mind for my own experience . 
My own experience explains Miss Verinder's otherwise incomprehensible conduct . 
It associates her with those other young ladies that I know of . 
It tells me she has debts she daren't acknowledge , that must be paid . 
And it sets me asking myself , whether the loss of the Diamond may not mean that the Diamond must be secretly pledged to pay them . 
That is the conclusion which my experience draws from plain facts . 
What does your ladyship's experience say against it ? What I have said already , answered my mistress . 
The circumstances have misled you . 
I said nothing on my side . 
ROBINSON CRUSOE God knows how had got into my muddled old head . 
Sergeant Cuff went on Right or wrong , my lady , he said , having drawn my conclusion , the next thing to do was to put it to the test . 
I suggested to your ladyship the examination of all the wardrobes in the house . 
It was a means of finding the article of dress which had , in all probability , made the smear and it was a means of putting my conclusion to the test . 
How did it turn out ? Your ladyship consented Mr. Blake consented Mr. Ablewhite consented . 
Miss Verinder alone stopped the whole proceeding by refusing point blank . 
That result satisfied me that my view was the right one . 
If your ladyship and Mr. Betteredge persist in not agreeing with me , you must be blind to what happened before you this very day . 
would put an obstacle in the way of my recovering her jewel . 
You saw yourselves that she drove off in the face of that statement . 
What do these things mean ? If Miss Verinder is not privy to the suppression of the Diamond , what do these things mean ? This time he looked my way . 
This enabled me to hold firm to my lady's view , which was my view also . 
This roused my spirit , and made me put a bold face on it before Sergeant Cuff . 
Profit , good friends , I beseech you , by my example . 
It will save you from many troubles of the vexing sort . 
The next thing is to put the case as it stands against Miss Verinder and the deceased Rosanna Spearman taken together . 
We will go back for a moment , if you please , to your daughter's refusal to let her wardrobe be examined . 
My mind being made up , after that circumstance , I had two questions to consider next . 
First , as to the right method of conducting my inquiry . 
Second , as to whether Miss Verinder had an accomplice among the female servants in the house . 
After carefully thinking it over , I determined to conduct the inquiry in , what we should call at our office , a highly irregular manner . 
For this reason I had a family scandal to deal with , which it was my business to keep within the family limits . 
The less noise made , and the fewer strangers employed to help me , the better . 
I should have tried Mr. Blake as well but for one obstacle in the way . 
HE saw the drift of my proceedings at a very early date and , with his interest in Miss Verinder , any mutual understanding was impossible between him and me . 
I trouble your ladyship with these particulars to show you that I have kept the family secret within the family circle . 
I am the only outsider who knows it and my professional existence depends on holding my tongue . 
Here I felt that my professional existence depended on not holding my tongue . 
Her ladyship honoured me by a little friendly pat on the shoulder . 
I looked with righteous indignation at the Sergeant , to see what he thought of such a testimony as THAT . 
The Sergeant looked back like a lamb , and seemed to like me better than ever . 
My lady informed him that he might continue his statement . 
I understand , she said , that you have honestly done your best , in what you believe to be my interest . 
I am ready to hear what you have to say next . 
What I have to say next , answered Sergeant Cuff , relates to Rosanna Spearman . 
I recognised the young woman , as your ladyship may remember , when she brought the washing book into this room . 
Up to that time I was inclined to doubt whether Miss Verinder had trusted her secret to any one . 
When I saw Rosanna , I altered my mind . 
I suspected her at once of being privy to the suppression of the Diamond . 
The poor creature has met her death by a dreadful end , and I don't want your ladyship to think , now she's gone , that I was unduly hard on her . 
But this was not a common case of thieving . 
It was a case in my mind of a deeply planned fraud , with the owner of the Diamond at the bottom of it . 
that he could put his case against Miss Rachel and Rosanna in a more horrid point of view than this ? It WAS possible , as you shall now see . 
I had another reason for suspecting the deceased woman , he said , which appears to me to have been stronger still . 
Who would be the very person to help Miss Verinder in raising money privately on the Diamond ? Rosanna Spearman . 
No young lady in Miss Verinder's position could manage such a risky matter as that by herself . 
who would advance a large sum on such a notable jewel as the Moonstone , without asking awkward questions , or insisting on awkward conditions . 
He thereupon passed the whole of Rosanna's proceedings under review . 
Even my mistress was daunted by what he said now . 
She made him no answer when he had done . 
It didn't seem to matter to the Sergeant whether he was answered or not . 
On he went , just as steady as ever . 
Having stated the whole case as I understand it , he said , I have only to tell your ladyship , now , what I propose to do next . 
I see two ways of bringing this inquiry successfully to an end . 
One of those ways I look upon as a certainty . 
The other , I admit , is a bold experiment , and nothing more . 
Shall we take the certainty first ? My mistress made him a sign to take his own way , and choose for himself . 
Thank you , said the Sergeant . 
We'll begin with the certainty , as your ladyship is so good as to leave it to me . 
What next ? asked my mistress . 
What next ? repeated my mistress . 
I don't deny that the course of action I am now suggesting will cost money , and consume time . 
But the result is certain . 
We run a line round the Moonstone , and we draw that line closer and closer till we find it in Miss Verinder's possession , supposing she decides to keep it . 
If her debts press , and she decides on sending it away , then we have our man ready , and we meet the Moonstone on its arrival in London . 
To hear her own daughter made the subject of such a proposal as this , stung my mistress into speaking angrily for the first time . 
Consider your proposal declined , in every particular , she said . 
And go on to your other way of bringing the inquiry to an end . 
My other way , said the Sergeant , going on as easy as ever , is to try that bold experiment to which I have alluded . 
I think I have formed a pretty correct estimate of Miss Verinder's temperament . 
of committing a daring fraud . 
Her feelings , in this case , have repeatedly got beyond her control , at the very time when it was plainly her interest to conceal them . 
It is on this peculiarity in her character that I now propose to act . 
I want to give her a great shock suddenly , under circumstances that will touch her to the quick . 
Does your ladyship accept that alternative ? My mistress astonished me beyond all power of expression . 
She answered him on the instant Yes I do . 
The pony chaise is ready , said the Sergeant . 
I wish your ladyship good morning . 
My lady held up her hand , and stopped him at the door . 
My daughter's better feelings shall be appealed to , as you propose , she said . 
But I claim the right , as her mother , of putting her to the test myself . 
You will remain here , if you please and I will go to Frizinghall . 
For once in his life , the great Cuff stood speechless with amazement , like an ordinary man . 
My mistress rang the bell , and ordered her water proof things . 
It was still pouring with rain and the close carriage had gone , as you know , with Miss Rachel to Frizinghall . 
I tried to dissuade her ladyship from facing the severity of the weather . 
Quite useless ! I asked leave to go with her , and hold the umbrella . 
She wouldn't hear of it . 
The pony chaise came round , with the groom in charge . 
You may rely on two things , she said to Sergeant Cuff , in the hall . 
I will try the experiment on Miss Verinder as boldly as you could try it yourself . 
And I will inform you of the result , either personally or by letter , before the last train leaves for London to night . 
With that , she stepped into the chaise , and , taking the reins herself , drove off to Frizinghall . 
CHAPTER XXII My mistress having left us , I had leisure to think of Sergeant Cuff . 
I found him sitting in a snug corner of the hall , consulting his memorandum book , and curling up viciously at the corners of the lips . 
Making notes of the case ? I asked . 
No , said the Sergeant . 
Looking to see what my next professional engagement is . 
You think it's all over then , here ? I think , answered Sergeant Cuff , that Lady Verinder is one of the cleverest women in England . 
I also think a rose much better worth looking at than a diamond . 
Where is the gardener , Mr. Betteredge ? There was no getting a word more out of him on the matter of the Moonstone . 
He had lost all interest in his own inquiry and he would persist in looking for the gardener . 
An hour afterwards , I heard them at high words in the conservatory , with the dog rose once more at the bottom of the dispute . 
In the meantime , it was my business to find out whether Mr. Franklin persisted in his resolution to leave us by the afternoon train . 
After having been informed of the conference in my lady's room , and of how it had ended , he immediately decided on waiting to hear the news from Frizinghall . 
This very natural alteration in his plans which , with ordinary people , would have led to nothing in particular proved , in Mr. Franklin's case , to have one objectionable result . 
in the library , sitting under the map of Modern Italy , and quite unaware of any other method of meeting his troubles , except the method of talking about them . 
I hobbled out to my own room , and hobbled back with that immortal book . 
Nobody in the library ! The map of Modern Italy stared at ME and I stared at the map of Modern Italy . 
I tried the drawing room . 
There was his handkerchief on the floor , to prove that he had drifted in . 
And there was the empty room to prove that he had drifted out again . 
I tried the dining room , and discovered Samuel with a biscuit and a glass of sherry , silently investigating the empty air . 
A minute since , Mr. Franklin had rung furiously for a little light refreshment . 
On its production , in a violent hurry , by Samuel , Mr. Franklin had vanished before the bell downstairs had quite done ringing with the pull he had given to it . 
I tried the morning room , and found him at last . 
There he was at the window , drawing hieroglyphics with his finger in the damp on the glass . 
Your sherry is waiting for you , sir , I said to him . 
I might as well have addressed myself to one of the four walls of the room he was down in the bottomless deep of his own meditations , past all pulling up . 
How do YOU explain Rachel's conduct , Betteredge ? was the only answer I received . 
Mr. Franklin shut up ROBINSON CRUSOE , and floundered into his German English gibberish on the spot . 
Why not look into it ? he said , as if I had personally objected to looking into it . 
Why the devil lose your patience , Betteredge , when patience is all that's wanted to arrive at the truth ? Don't interrupt me . 
Rachel's conduct is perfectly intelligible , if you will only do her the common justice to take the Objective view first . 
and the Subjective view next , and the Objective Subjective view to wind up with . 
Do you mean to deny the Objective view , so far ? Very well , then don't interrupt me . 
I defy you to controvert the Subjective view . 
Very well then what follows ? Good Heavens ! the Objective Subjective explanation follows , of course ! Rachel , properly speaking , is not Rachel , but Somebody Else . 
Do I mind being cruelly treated by Somebody Else ? You are unreasonable enough , Betteredge but you can hardly accuse me of that . 
Then how does it end ? It ends , in spite of your confounded English narrowness and prejudice , in my being perfectly happy and comfortable . 
Where's the sherry ? My head was by this time in such a condition , that I was not quite sure whether it was my own head , or Mr. Franklin's . 
In this deplorable state , I contrived to do , what I take to have been , three Objective things . 
I got Mr. Franklin his sherry I retired to my own room and I solaced myself with the most composing pipe of tobacco I ever remember to have smoked in my life . 
Don't suppose , however , that I was quit of Mr. Franklin on such easy terms as these . 
Give me a light , Betteredge . 
You choose a cigar , you try it , and it disappoints you . 
What do you do upon that ? You throw it away and try another . 
Now observe the application ! You choose a woman , you try her , and she breaks your heart . 
Fool ! take a lesson from your cigar case . 
Throw her away , and try another ! I shook my head at that . 
Wonderfully clever , I dare say , but my own experience was dead against it . 
In the time of the late Mrs. Betteredge , I said , I felt pretty often inclined to try your philosophy , Mr. Franklin . 
But the law insists on your smoking your cigar , sir , when you have once chosen it . 
I pointed that observation with a wink . 
Mr. Franklin burst out laughing and we were as merry as crickets , until the next new side of his character turned up in due course . 
we two spent the interval before the news came back from Frizinghall . 
The pony chaise returned a good half hour before I had ventured to expect it . 
My lady had decided to remain for the present , at her sister's house . 
The groom brought two letters from his mistress one addressed to Mr. Franklin , and the other to me . 
Mr. Franklin's letter I sent to him in the library into which refuge his driftings had now taken him for the second time . 
My own letter , I read in my own room . 
that Sergeant Cuff's dismissal from the inquiry after the Moonstone was now a settled thing . 
I sent to the conservatory to say that I wished to speak to the Sergeant directly . 
I requested him to dismiss such wretched trifling as this from our conversation , and to give his best attention to a really serious matter . 
Upon that he exerted himself sufficiently to notice the letter in my hand . 
Ah ! he said in a weary way , you have heard from her ladyship . 
Have I anything to do with it , Mr. Betteredge ? You shall judge for yourself , Sergeant . 
Miss Verinder solemnly declares , that she has never spoken a word in private to Rosanna , since that unhappy woman first entered my house . 
After telling my daughter suddenly , and in so many words , of Rosanna Spearman's suicide this is what has come of it . 
Go on , Mr. Betteredge , he said , with the most exasperating resignation , go on . 
When I remembered that this man had had the audacity to complain of our gardener's obstinacy , my tongue itched to go on in other words than my mistress's . 
This time , however , my Christianity held firm . 
On two different occasions , before my daughter left my roof , I privately warned her that she was exposing herself to suspicion of the most unendurable and most degrading kind . 
I have now told her , in the plainest terms , that my apprehensions have been realised . 
Her answer to this , on her own solemn affirmation , is as plain as words can be . 
In the first place , she owes no money privately to any living creature . 
In the second place , the Diamond is not now , and never has been , in her possession , since she put it into her cabinet on Wednesday night . 
The confidence which my daughter has placed in me goes no further than this . 
She maintains an obstinate silence , when I ask her if she can explain the disappearance of the Diamond . 
She refuses , with tears , when I appeal to her to speak out for my sake . 
The day will come when you will know why I am careless about being suspected , and why I am silent even to you . 
I have done much to make my mother pity me nothing to make my mother blush for me . 
Those are my daughter's own words . 
After what has passed between the officer and me , I think stranger as he is that he should be made acquainted with what Miss Verinder has said , as well as you . 
Read my letter to him , and then place in his hands the cheque which I enclose . 
Before presenting the cheque , I asked Sergeant Cuff if he had any remark to make . 
It's no part of my duty , Mr. Betteredge , he answered , to make remarks on a case , when I have done with it . 
I tossed the cheque across the table to him . 
Do you believe in THAT part of her ladyship's letter ? I said , indignantly . 
The Sergeant looked at the cheque , and lifted up his dismal eyebrows in acknowledgment of her ladyship's liberality . 
This is such a generous estimate of the value of my time , he said , that I feel bound to make some return for it . 
I'll bear in mind the amount in this cheque , Mr. Betteredge , when the occasion comes round for remembering it . 
What do you mean ? I asked . 
Her ladyship has smoothed matters over for the present very cleverly , said the Sergeant . 
But THIS family scandal is of the sort that bursts up again when you least expect it . 
We shall have more detective business on our hands , sir , before the Moonstone is many months older . 
If those words meant anything , and if the manner in which he spoke them meant anything it came to this . 
by a series of abominable lies . 
How other people , in my place , might have replied to the Sergeant , I don't know . 
Hot and angry as I was , the infernal confidence with which he gave me that answer closed my lips . 
I walked to the window to compose myself . 
My compliments to the Sairgent , said Mr. Begbie , the moment he set eyes on me . 
If he's minded to walk to the station , I'm agreeable to go with him . 
What ! cries the Sergeant , behind me , are you not convinced yet ? The de'il a bit I'm convinced ! answered Mr. Begbie . 
Then I'll walk to the station ! says the Sergeant . 
Then I'll meet you at the gate ! says Mr. Begbie . 
I cooled slowly down to my customary level . 
I regarded any other opinion of Miss Rachel , than my lady's opinion or mine , with a lofty contempt . 
Sergeant Cuff had hit me on the raw , and , though I did look down upon him with contempt , the tender place still tingled for all that . 
The end of it was that I perversely led him back to the subject of her ladyship's letter . 
I am quite satisfied myself , I said . 
But never mind that ! Go on , as if I was still open to conviction . 
You think Miss Rachel is not to be believed on her word and you say we shall hear of the Moonstone again . 
Back your opinion , Sergeant , I concluded , in an airy way . 
Instead of taking offence , Sergeant Cuff seized my hand , and shook it till my fingers ached again . 
There ! there ! we won't begin to dispute again . 
You shall have it out of me on easier terms than that . 
I won't say a word more about her ladyship , or about Miss Verinder I'll only turn prophet , for once in a way , and for your sake . 
I have warned you already that you haven't done with the Moonstone yet . 
Go on ! I said , quite unabashed , and just as airy as ever . 
First , said the Sergeant , you will hear something from the Yollands when the postman delivers Rosanna's letter at Cobb's Hole , on Monday next . 
If he had thrown a bucket of cold water over me , I doubt if I could have felt it much more unpleasantly than I felt those words . 
Miss Rachel's assertion of her innocence had left Rosanna's conduct the making the new nightgown , the hiding the smeared nightgown , and all the rest of it entirely without explanation . 
You will hear of them in the neighbourhood , if Miss Rachel remains in the neighbourhood . 
You will hear of them in London , if Miss Rachel goes to London . 
Having lost all interest in the three jugglers , and having thoroughly convinced myself of my young lady's innocence , I took this second prophecy easily enough . 
So much for two of the three things that are going to happen , I said . 
Give me your pocket book , and I'll make a note for you of his name and address so that there may be no mistake about it if the thing really happens . 
He wrote accordingly on a blank leaf Mr. Septimus Luker , Middlesex place , Lambeth , London . 
There , he said , pointing to the address , are the last words , on the subject of the Moonstone , which I shall trouble you with for the present . 
Time will show whether I am right or wrong . 
In the meanwhile , sir , I carry away with me a sincere personal liking for you , which I think does honour to both of us . 
There will be grass walks , Mr. Betteredge , I promise you , in my garden . 
There was the everlasting Mr. Begbie , too eager for the controversy to wait any longer at the gate . 
The Sergeant wrung my hand , and darted out into the court yard , hotter still on his side . 
Gentlemen , both ! I answered , moderating them again as I had moderated them once already . 
have whistled jigs to a milestone . 
Away they went together , fighting the battle of the roses without asking or giving quarter on either side . 
The last I saw of them , Mr. Begbie was shaking his obstinate head , and Sergeant Cuff had got him by the arm like a prisoner in charge . 
Ah , well ! well ! I own I couldn't help liking the Sergeant though I hated him all the time . 
Explain that state of mind , if you can . 
You will soon be rid , now , of me and my contradictions . 
When I have reported Mr. Franklin's departure , the history of the Saturday's events will be finished at last . 
The appearance of the luggage , followed downstairs by Mr. Franklin himself , informed me plainly enough that he had held firm to a resolution for once in his life . 
So you have really made up your mind , sir ? I said , as we met in the hall . 
Instead of replying to me in words , he put the letter which her ladyship had addressed to him into my hand . 
The greater part of it said over again what had been said already in the other communication received by me . 
But there was a bit about Miss Rachel added at the end , which will account for the steadiness of Mr. Franklin's determination , if it accounts for nothing else . 
, at my allowing my own daughter to keep me perfectly in the dark . 
Is it conceivable that I should allow myself to be trifled with in this way ? It is quite conceivable , in Rachel's present state . 
She is in a condition of nervous agitation pitiable to see . 
I dare not approach the subject of the Moonstone again until time has done something to quiet her . 
To help this end , I have not hesitated to dismiss the police officer . 
The mystery which baffles us , baffles him too . 
This is not a matter in which any stranger can help us . 
He adds to what I have to suffer and he maddens Rachel if she only hears his name . 
My plans for the future are as well settled as they can be . 
My present idea is to take Rachel to London partly to relieve her mind by a complete change , partly to try what may be done by consulting the best medical advice . 
The valuable assistance which you rendered to the inquiry after the lost jewel is still an unpardoned offence , in the present dreadful state of Rachel's mind . 
Moving blindfold in this matter , you have added to the burden of anxiety which she has had to bear , by innocently threatening her secret with discovery , through your exertions . 
It is impossible for me to excuse the perversity that holds you responsible for consequences which neither you nor I could imagine or foresee . 
She is not to be reasoned with she can only be pitied . 
I am grieved to have to say it , but for the present , you and Rachel are better apart . 
The only advice I can offer you is , to give her time . 
You know the proverb , sir , was all I said to him . 
When things are at the worst , they're sure to mend . 
Things can't be much worse , Mr. Franklin , than they are now . 
Mr. Franklin folded up his aunt's letter , without appearing to be much comforted by the remark which I had ventured on addressing to him . 
When I came here from London with that horrible Diamond , he said , I don't believe there was a happier household in England than this . 
I followed him down the steps . 
It was very miserable to see him leaving the old place , where he had spent the happiest years of his life , in this way . 
came round crying , to bid him good bye . 
I waved my hand as much as to say , You're heartily welcome , sir . 
Some of the other female servants appeared , peeping after him round the corner . 
He was one of those men whom the women all like . 
At the last moment , I stopped the pony chaise , and begged as a favour that he would let us hear from him by letter . 
He didn't seem to heed what I said he was looking round from one thing to another , taking a sort of farewell of the old house and grounds . 
Tell us where you are going to , sir ! I said , holding on by the chaise , and trying to get at his future plans in that way . 
Mr. Franklin pulled his hat down suddenly over his eyes . 
Going ? says he , echoing the word after me . 
I am going to the devil ! The pony started at the word , as if he had felt a Christian horror of it . 
God bless you , sir , go where you may ! was all I had time to say , before he was out of sight and hearing . 
A sweet and pleasant gentleman ! With all his faults and follies , a sweet and pleasant gentleman ! He left a sad gap behind him , when he left my lady's house . 
It was dull and dreary enough , when the long summer evening closed in , on that Saturday night . 
I kept my spirits from sinking by sticking fast to my pipe and my ROBINSON CRUSOE . 
beguiled the time by talking of Rosanna's suicide . 
They were all obstinately of opinion that the poor girl had stolen the Moonstone , and that she had destroyed herself in terror of being found out . 
My daughter , of course , privately held fast to what she had said all along . 
Her notion of the motive which was really at the bottom of the suicide failed , oddly enough , just where my young lady's assertion of her innocence failed also . 
It left Rosanna's secret journey to Frizinghall , and Rosanna's proceedings in the matter of the nightgown entirely unaccounted for . 
There was no use in pointing this out to Penelope the objection made about as much impression on her as a shower of rain on a waterproof coat . 
The truth is , my daughter inherits my superiority to reason and , in respect to that accomplishment , has got a long way ahead of her own father . 
, the close carriage , which had been kept at Mr. Ablewhite's , came back to us empty . 
The coachman brought a message for me , and written instructions for my lady's own maid and for Penelope . 
The message informed me that my mistress had determined to take Miss Rachel to her house in London , on the Monday . 
The written instructions informed the two maids of the clothing that was wanted , and directed them to meet their mistresses in town at a given hour . 
Most of the other servants were to follow . 
My lady had found Miss Rachel so unwilling to return to the house , after what had happened in it , that she had decided on going to London direct from Frizinghall . 
I was to remain in the country , until further orders , to look after things indoors and out . 
The servants left with me were to be put on board wages . 
Being reminded , by all this , of what Mr. Franklin had said about our being a scattered and disunited household , my mind was led naturally to Mr. Franklin himself . 
The more I thought of him , the more uneasy I felt about his future proceedings . 
to beg he would let me know what Mr. Franklin had settled to do , on arriving in London . 
The Sunday evening was , if possible , duller even than the Saturday evening . 
How the Monday affected the rest of the household I don't know . 
The Monday gave ME a good shake up . 
The first of Sergeant Cuff's prophecies of what was to happen namely , that I should hear from the Yollands came true on that day . 
I had seen Penelope and my lady's maid off in the railway with the luggage for London , and was pottering about the grounds , when I heard my name called . 
Turning round , I found myself face to face with the fisherman's daughter , Limping Lucy . 
, the girl had some pleasing qualities in the eye of a man . 
A dark , keen , clever face , and a nice clear voice , and a beautiful brown head of hair counted among her merits . 
A crutch appeared in the list of her misfortunes . 
And a temper reckoned high in the sum total of her defects . 
That's not a respectful way to speak of any gentleman , I answered . 
If you wish to inquire for my lady's nephew , you will please to mention him as MR . 
She limped a step nearer to me , and looked as if she could have eaten me alive . 
Franklin Blake ? she repeated after me . 
Murderer Franklin Blake would be a fitter name for him . 
My practice with the late Mrs. Betteredge came in handy here . 
Whenever a woman tries to put you out of temper , turn the tables , and put HER out of temper instead . 
They are generally prepared for every effort you can make in your own defence , but that . 
One word does it as well as a hundred and one word did it with Limping Lucy . 
I looked her pleasantly in the face and I said Pooh ! The girl's temper flamed out directly . 
She poised herself on her sound foot , and she took her crutch , and beat it furiously three times on the ground . 
He's a murderer ! he's a murderer ! he's a murderer ! He has been the death of Rosanna Spearman ! She screamed that answer out at the top of her voice . 
One or two of the people at work in the grounds near us looked up saw it was Limping Lucy knew what to expect from that quarter and looked away again . 
He has been the death of Rosanna Spearman ? I repeated . 
I spoke those words in as comforting a manner as I could . 
The truth is , I hadn't the heart to irritate the girl by another of my smart replies . 
I had only noticed her temper at first . 
I noticed her wretchedness now and wretchedness is not uncommonly insolent , you will find , in humble life . 
My answer melted Limping Lucy . 
She bent her head down , and laid it on the top of her crutch . 
I loved her , the girl said softly . 
She had lived a miserable life , Mr. Betteredge vile people had ill treated her and led her wrong and it hadn't spoiled her sweet temper . 
She might have been happy with me . 
I had a plan for our going to London together like sisters , and living by our needles . 
That man came here , and spoilt it all . 
Don't tell me he didn't mean it , and didn't know it . 
He ought to have known it . 
He ought to have taken pity on her . 
'I can't live without him and , oh , Lucy , he never even looks at me . 
Cruel , cruel , cruel . 
I said , 'No man is worth fretting for in that way . 
And she said , 'There are men worth dying for , Lucy , and he is one of them . 
I had saved up a little money . 
I had settled things with father and mother . 
I meant to take her away from the mortification she was suffering here . 
We should have had a little lodging in London , and lived together like sisters . 
She had a good education , sir , as you know , and she wrote a good hand . 
She was quick at her needle . 
I have a good education , and I write a good hand . 
I am not as quick at my needle as she was but I could have done . 
We might have got our living nicely . 
And , oh ! what happens this morning ? what happens this morning ? Her letter comes and tells me that she has done with the burden of her life . 
Her letter comes , and bids me good bye for ever . 
Where is he ? cries the girl , lifting her head from the crutch , and flaming out again through her tears . 
Where's this gentleman that I mustn't speak of , except with respect ? Ha , Mr. Betteredge , the day is not far off when the poor will rise against the rich . 
I pray Heaven they may begin with HIM . 
I pray Heaven they may begin with HIM . 
could hardly have lectured the girl in the state she was in now . 
All I ventured to do was to keep her to the point in the hope of something turning up which might be worth hearing . 
What do you want with Mr. Franklin Blake ? I asked . 
I want to see him . 
For anything particular ? I have got a letter to give him . 
From Rosanna Spearman ? Yes . 
Sent to you in your own letter ? Yes . 
Sergeant Cuff had left his infection behind him . 
Certain signs and tokens , personal to myself , warned me that the detective fever was beginning to set in again . 
You can't see Mr. Franklin , I said . 
I must , and will , see him . 
He went to London last night . 
Limping Lucy looked me hard in the face , and saw that I was speaking the truth . 
Without a word more , she turned about again instantly towards Cobb's Hole . 
I expect news of Mr. Franklin Blake to morrow . 
Give me your letter , and I'll send it on to him by the post . 
Limping Lucy steadied herself on her crutch and looked back at me over her shoulder . 
I am to give it from my hands into his hands , she said . 
And I am to give it to him in no other way . 
Shall I write , and tell him what you have said ? Tell him I hate him . 
And you will tell him the truth . 
But about the letter ? If he wants the letter , he must come back here , and get it from Me . 
With those words she limped off on the way to Cobb's Hole . 
The detective fever burnt up all my dignity on the spot . 
I followed her , and tried to make her talk . 
It was my misfortune to be a man and Limping Lucy enjoyed disappointing me . 
Later in the day , I tried my luck with her mother . 
Good Mrs. Yolland could only cry , and recommend a drop of comfort out of the Dutch bottle . 
I found the fisherman on the beach . 
He said it was a bad job , and went on mending his net . 
Neither father nor mother knew more than I knew . 
The one way left to try was the chance , which might come with the morning , of writing to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
I leave you to imagine how I watched for the postman on Tuesday morning . 
He brought me two letters . 
, announced that my lady and Miss Rachel were safely established in London . 
The other , from Mr. Jeffco , informed me that his master's son had left England already . 
On reaching the metropolis , Mr. Franklin had , it appeared , gone straight to his father's residence . 
He arrived at an awkward time . 
Mr. Jeffco himself showed Mr. Franklin into his father's study . 
My dear Franklin ! why do you surprise me in this way ? Anything wrong ? Yes something wrong with Rachel I am dreadfully distressed about it . 
But I can't listen to you now . 
When can you listen ? My dear boy ! I won't deceive you . 
I can listen at the end of the session , not a moment before . 
Such was the conversation , inside the study , as reported to me by Mr. Jeffco . 
The conversation outside the study , was shorter still . 
Jeffco , see what time the tidal train starts to morrow morning . 
At six forty , Mr. Franklin . 
Have me called at five . 
Going abroad , sir ? Going , Jeffco , wherever the railway chooses to take me . 
Shall I tell your father , sir ? Yes tell him at the end of the session . 
The next morning Mr. Franklin had started for foreign parts . 
We might hear of him next in Europe , Asia , Africa , or America . 
The chances were as equally divided as possible , in Mr. Jeffco's opinion , among the four quarters of the globe . 
This news by closing up all prospects of my bringing Limping Lucy and Mr. Franklin together at once stopped any further progress of mine on the way to discovery . 
Penelope's belief that her fellow servant had destroyed herself through unrequited love for Mr. Franklin Blake , was confirmed and that was all . 
It might be only a farewell word , telling nothing but the secret of her unhappy fancy for a person beyond her reach . 
A sealed letter it had been placed in Limping Lucy's hand , and a sealed letter it remained to me and to every one about the girl , her own parents included . 
We all suspected her of having been in the dead woman's confidence we all tried to make her speak we all failed . 
The tide ebbed , and the tide flowed the summer went on , and the autumn came . 
And the Quicksand , which hid her body , hid her secret too . 
The Wednesday came , and brought nothing . 
The Thursday produced a second budget of news from Penelope . 
My girl's letter informed me that some great London doctor had been consulted about her young lady , and had earned a guinea by remarking that she had better be amused . 
Flower shows , operas , balls there was a whole round of gaieties in prospect and Miss Rachel , to her mother's astonishment , eagerly took to it all . 
To Penelope's great regret , he had been most graciously received , and had added Miss Rachel's name to one of his Ladies' Charities on the spot . 
My mistress was reported to be out of spirits , and to have held two long interviews with her lawyer . 
Penelope was astonished to find that Miss Clack had not called yet . 
This would not have been worth mentioning , I admit , but for one reason . 
I hear you are likely to be turned over to Miss Clack , after parting with me . 
In that case , just do me the favour of not believing a word she says , if she speaks of your humble servant . 
On Friday , nothing happened except that one of the dogs showed signs of a breaking out behind the ears . 
I gave him a dose of syrup of buckthorn , and put him on a diet of pot liquor and vegetables till further orders . 
It has slipped in somehow . 
I am fast coming to the end of my offences against your cultivated modern taste . 
Besides , the dog was a good creature , and deserved a good physicking he did indeed . 
Saturday , the last day of the week , is also the last day in my narrative . 
The morning's post brought me a surprise in the shape of a London newspaper . 
The handwriting on the direction puzzled me . 
I compared it with the money lender's name and address as recorded in my pocket pook , and identified it at once as the writing of Sergeant Cuff . 
Looking through the paper eagerly enough , after this discovery , I found an ink mark drawn round one of the police reports . 
Here it is , at your service . 
, applied to the sitting magistrate for advice . 
The applicant stated that he had been annoyed , at intervals throughout the day , by the proceedings of some of those strolling Indians who infest the streets . 
The persons complained of were three in number . 
After having been sent away by the police , they had returned again and again , and had attempted to enter the house on pretence of asking for charity . 
Warned off in the front , they had been discovered again at the back of the premises . 
Besides the annoyance complained of , Mr. Luker expressed himself as being under some apprehension that robbery might be contemplated . 
His collection contained many unique gems , both classical and Oriental , of the highest value . 
, on suspicion of attempted theft and he felt by no means sure that this man and the street jugglers of whom he complained , might not be acting in concert . 
It might be their object to collect a crowd , and create a disturbance in the street , and , in the confusion thus caused , to obtain access to the house . 
In reply to the magistrate , Mr. Luker admitted that he had no evidence to produce of any attempt at robbery being in contemplation . 
He could speak positively to the annoyance and interruption caused by the Indians , but not to anything else . 
The magistrate remarked that , if the annoyance were repeated , the applicant could summon the Indians to that court , where they might easily be dealt with under the Act . 
As to the valuables in Mr. Luker's possession , Mr. Luker himself must take the best measures for their safe custody . 
He would do well perhaps to communicate with the police , and to adopt such additional precautions as their experience might suggest . 
The applicant thanked his worship , and withdrew . 
as having recommended his fellow creatures to look to the end . 
You see , I put things at their worst , even when they tell dead against my own view . 
In the dark , I have brought you thus far . 
In the dark I am compelled to leave you , with my best respects . 
Why compelled ? it may be asked . 
in the interests of truth . 
I am forbidden to tell more in this narrative than I knew myself at the time . 
In this matter of the Moonstone the plan is , not to present reports , but to produce witnesses . 
I picture to myself a member of the family reading these pages fifty years hence . 
Lord ! what a compliment he will feel it , to be asked to take nothing on hear say , and to be treated in all respects like a Judge on the bench . 
At this place , then , we part for the present , at least after long journeying together , with a companionable feeling , I hope , on both sides . 
The devil's dance of the Indian Diamond has threaded its way to London and to London you must go after it , leaving me at the country house . 
Please to excuse the faults of this composition my talking so much of myself , and being too familiar , I am afraid , with you . 
to your health and prosperity , in a tankard of her ladyship's ale . 
THE END OF THE FIRST PERIOD . 
The events related in several narratives . 
for having had habits of order and regularity instilled into me at a very early age . 
An entry of the day's events in my little diary invariably preceded the folding up . 
The Evening Hymn invariably followed the folding up . 
And the sweet sleep of childhood invariably followed the Evening Hymn . 
the Hymn has been succeeded by sad and bitter meditations and the sweet sleep has been but ill exchanged for the broken slumbers which haunt the uneasy pillow of care . 
On the other hand , I have continued to fold my clothes , and to keep my little diary . 
The former habit links me to my happy childhood before papa was ruined . 
The latter habit hitherto mainly useful in helping me to discipline the fallen nature which we all inherit from Adam has unexpectedly proved important to my humble interests in quite another way . 
It has enabled poor Me to serve the caprice of a wealthy member of the family into which my late uncle married . 
I am fortunate enough to be useful to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
I have been cut off from all news of my relatives by marriage for some time past . 
When we are isolated and poor , we are not infrequently forgotten . 
In this retirement a Patmos amid the howling ocean of popery that surrounds us a letter from England has reached me at last . 
I find my insignificant existence suddenly remembered by Mr. Franklin Blake . 
My wealthy relative would that I could add my spiritually wealthy relative ! writes , without even an attempt at disguising that he wants something of me . 
Pecuniary remuneration is offered to me with the want of feeling peculiar to the rich . 
It cost me a hard struggle , before Christian humility conquered sinful pride , and self denial accepted the cheque . 
Without my diary , I doubt pray let me express it in the grossest terms ! if I could have honestly earned my money . 
With my diary , the poor labourer is worthy of her hire . 
Nothing escaped me at the time I was visiting dear Aunt Verinder . 
day by day as it happened and everything down to the smallest particular , shall be told here . 
far above my respect for persons . 
It will be easy for Mr. Blake to suppress what may not prove to be sufficiently flattering in these pages to the person chiefly concerned in them . 
He has purchased my time , but not even HIS wealth can purchase my conscience too . 
Miss Clack may make her mind quite easy on this point . 
Nothing will be added , altered or removed , in her manuscript , or in any of the other manuscripts which pass through my hands . 
As genuine documents they are sent to me and as genuine documents I shall preserve them , endorsed by the attestations of witnesses who can speak to the facts . 
My diary informs me , that I was accidentally passing Aunt Verinder's house in Montagu Square , on Monday , rd July , . 
Seeing the shutters opened , and the blinds drawn up , I felt that it would be an act of polite attention to knock , and make inquiries . 
had arrived from the country a week since , and meditated making some stay in London . 
I sent up a message at once , declining to disturb them , and only begging to know whether I could be of any use . 
The person who answered the door , took my message in insolent silence , and left me standing in the hall . 
She is the daughter of a heathen old man named Betteredge long , too long , tolerated in my aunt's family . 
The hall was dirty , and the chair was hard but the blessed consciousness of returning good for evil raised me quite above any trifling considerations of that kind . 
The tract was one of a series addressed to young women on the sinfulness of dress . 
In style it was devoutly familiar . 
Its title was , A Word With You On Your Cap Ribbons . 
My lady is much obliged , and begs you will come and lunch to morrow at two . 
I passed over the manner in which she gave her message , and the dreadful boldness of her look . 
I thanked this young castaway and I said , in a tone of Christian interest , Will you favour me by accepting a tract ? She looked at the title . 
Is it written by a man or a woman , Miss ? If it's written by a woman , I had rather not read it on that account . 
If it's written by a man , I beg to inform him that he knows nothing about it . 
She handed me back the tract , and opened the door . 
We must sow the good seed somehow . 
I waited till the door was shut on me , and slipped the tract into the letter box . 
When I had dropped another tract through the area railings , I felt relieved , in some small degree , of a heavy responsibility towards others . 
We had a meeting that evening of the Select Committee of the Mothers' Small Clothes Conversion Society . 
To my great disappointment he never appeared . 
, and asked in amazement , if I had not heard the news . 
I acknowledged my ignorance , and was then told , for the first time , of an event which forms , so to speak , the starting point of this narrative . 
On the previous Friday , two gentlemen occupying widely different positions in society had been the victims of an outrage which had startled all London . 
One of the gentlemen was Mr. Septimus Luker , of Lambeth . 
The other was Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite . 
Living in my present isolation , I have no means of introducing the newspaper account of the outrage into my narrative . 
I was also deprived , at the time , of the inestimable advantage of hearing the events related by the fervid eloquence of Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite . 
Everything shall be put neatly , and everything shall be put in its place . 
These lines are written by a poor weak woman . 
Early on that memorable day , our gifted Mr. Godfrey happened to be cashing a cheque at a banking house in Lombard Street . 
The name of the firm is accidentally blotted in my diary , and my sacred regard for truth forbids me to hazard a guess in a matter of this kind . 
Fortunately , the name of the firm doesn't matter . 
What does matter is a circumstance that occurred when Mr. Godfrey had transacted his business . 
On gaining the door , he encountered a gentleman a perfect stranger to him who was accidentally leaving the office exactly at the same time as himself . 
A momentary contest of politeness ensued between them as to who should be the first to pass through the door of the bank . 
The stranger insisted on making Mr. Godfrey precede him Mr. Godfrey said a few civil words they bowed , and parted in the street . 
Thoughtless and superficial people may say , Here is surely a very trumpery little incident related in an absurdly circumstantial manner . 
Oh , my young friends and fellow sinners ! beware of presuming to exercise your poor carnal reason . 
Oh , be morally tidy . 
Let your faith be as your stockings , and your stockings as your faith . 
Both ever spotless , and both ready to put on at a moment's notice ! I beg a thousand pardons . 
I have fallen insensibly into my Sunday school style . 
Most inappropriate in such a record as this . 
Let me try to be worldly let me say that trifles , in this case as in many others , led to terrible results . 
Merely premising that the polite stranger was Mr. Luker , of Lambeth , we will now follow Mr. Godfrey home to his residence at Kilburn . 
He found waiting for him , in the hall , a poorly clad but delicate and interesting looking little boy . 
Such incidents as these were not uncommon in Mr. Godfrey's large experience as a promoter of public charities . 
He let the boy go , and opened the letter . 
The handwriting was entirely unfamiliar to him . 
It requested his attendance , within an hour's time , at a house in Northumberland Street , Strand , which he had never had occasion to enter before . 
She mentioned her name , and she added that the shortness of her stay in London prevented her from giving any longer notice to the eminent philanthropist whom she addressed . 
Ordinary people might have hesitated before setting aside their own engagements to suit the convenience of a stranger . 
The Christian Hero never hesitates where good is to be done . 
Mr. Godfrey instantly turned back , and proceeded to the house in Northumberland Street . 
He noticed two unusual things on entering the room . 
One of them was a faint odour of musk and camphor . 
The other was an ancient Oriental manuscript , richly illuminated with Indian figures and devices , that lay open to inspection on a table . 
A third rifled his pockets , and if , as a lady , I may venture to use such an expression searched him , without ceremony , through and through to his skin . 
Here I should greatly enjoy saying a few cheering words on the devout confidence which could alone have sustained Mr. Godfrey in an emergency so terrible as this . 
are hardly within the proper limits of female discussion . 
Let me pass over the next few moments , and return to Mr. Godfrey at the time when the odious search of his person had been completed . 
The outrage had been perpetrated throughout in dead silence . 
He was suddenly lifted from the ground , placed in a chair , and bound there hand and foot . 
The next moment he felt the air flowing in from the open door , listened , and concluded that he was alone again in the room . 
An interval elapsed , and he heard a sound below like the rustling sound of a woman's dress . 
It advanced up the stairs , and stopped . 
A female scream rent the atmosphere of guilt . 
A man's voice below exclaimed Hullo ! A man's feet ascended the stairs . 
Mr. Godfrey felt Christian fingers unfastening his bandage , and extracting his gag . 
No ! Let me be scrupulously particular . 
Sal volatile and water followed , to compose dear Mr. Godfrey's nerves . 
Early on the morning of the outrage , two of the Oriental strangers , accompanied by their respectable English friend , took possession of the apartments . 
was announced to follow when it had passed through the Custom house , late in the afternoon . 
Not more than ten minutes previous to Mr. Godfrey's visit , the third foreigner had arrived . 
After a short discussion with her husband , she had considered it advisable to ascertain whether anything was wrong . 
The result had followed , as I have already attempted to describe it and there the explanation of the landlord and the landlady came to an end . 
An investigation was next made in the room . 
Dear Mr. Godfrey's property was found scattered in all directions . 
In the same way , not the smallest morsel of property belonging to the proprietors of the house had been abstracted . 
The Oriental noblemen had removed their own illuminated manuscript , and had removed nothing else . 
What did it mean ? Taking the worldly point of view , it appeared to mean that Mr. Godfrey had been the victim of some incomprehensible error , committed by certain unknown men . 
A dark conspiracy was on foot in the midst of us and our beloved and innocent friend had been entangled in its meshes . 
My wealthy relative's cheque henceforth , the incubus of my existence warns me that I have not done with this record of violence yet . 
We must leave Mr. Godfrey to recover in Northumberland Street , and must follow the proceedings of Mr. Luker at a later period of the day . 
After leaving the bank , Mr. Luker had visited various parts of London on business errands . 
Returning to his own residence , he found a letter waiting for him , which was described as having been left a short time previously by a boy . 
In this case , as in Mr. Godfrey's case , the handwriting was strange but the name mentioned was the name of one of Mr. Luker's customers . 
that he had been unexpectedly summoned to London . 
He had just established himself in lodgings in Alfred Place , Tottenham Court Road and he desired to see Mr. Luker immediately , on the subject of a purchase which he contemplated making . 
The gentleman was an enthusiastic collector of Oriental antiquities , and had been for many years a liberal patron of the establishment in Lambeth . 
Oh , when shall we wean ourselves from the worship of Mammon ! Mr. Luker called a cab , and drove off instantly to his liberal patron . 
Exactly what had happened to Mr. Godfrey in Northumberland Street now happened to Mr. Luker in Alfred Place . 
Once more the respectable man answered the door , and showed the visitor up stairs into the back drawing room . 
There , again , lay the illuminated manuscript on a table . 
Mr. Luker's attention was absorbed , as Mr. Godfrey's attention had been absorbed , by this beautiful work of Indian art . 
He too was aroused from his studies by a tawny naked arm round his throat , by a bandage over his eyes , and by a gag in his mouth . 
He too was thrown prostrate and searched to the skin . 
Precisely the same explanation which the landlord in Northumberland Street had given to Mr. Godfrey , the landlord in Alfred Place now gave to Mr. Luker . 
Both had been imposed on in the same way by the plausible address and well filled purse of the respectable stranger , who introduced himself as acting for his foreign friends . 
The one point of difference between the two cases occurred when the scattered contents of Mr. Luker's pockets were being collected from the floor . 
one of the loose papers that he carried about him had been taken away . 
The paper in question acknowledged the receipt of a valuable of great price which Mr. Luker had that day left in the care of his bankers . 
This document would be useless for purposes of fraud , inasmuch as it provided that the valuable should only be given up on the personal application of the owner . 
As soon as he recovered himself , Mr. Luker hurried to the bank , on the chance that the thieves who had robbed him might ignorantly present themselves with the receipt . 
Nothing had been seen of them when he arrived at the establishment , and nothing was seen of them afterwards . 
looked the receipt over before they attempted to make use of it , and had given them the necessary warning in good time . 
Information of both outrages was communicated to the police , and the needful investigations were pursued , I believe , with great energy . 
The authorities held that a robbery had been planned , on insufficient information received by the thieves . 
I was punctual to the luncheon hour on Tuesday . 
Reference to my diary shows this to have been a chequered day much in it to be devoutly regretted , much in it to be devoutly thankful for . 
Dear Aunt Verinder received me with her usual grace and kindness . 
But I noticed , after a little while , that something was wrong . 
Certain anxious looks escaped my aunt , all of which took the direction of her daughter . 
I never see Rachel myself without wondering how it can be that so insignificant looking a person should be the child of such distinguished parents as Sir John and Lady Verinder . 
On this occasion , however , she not only disappointed she really shocked me . 
There was an absence of all lady like restraint in her language and manner most painful to see . 
She was possessed by some feverish excitement which made her distressingly loud when she laughed , and sinfully wasteful and capricious in what she ate and drank at lunch . 
I felt deeply for her poor mother , even before the true state of the case had been confidentially made known to me . 
Luncheon over , my aunt said Remember what the doctor told you , Rachel , about quieting yourself with a book after taking your meals . 
I'll go into the library , mamma , she answered . 
But if Godfrey calls , mind I am told of it . 
I am dying for more news of him , after his adventure in Northumberland Street . 
She kissed her mother on the forehead , and looked my way . 
Good bye , Clack , she said , carelessly . 
Her insolence roused no angry feeling in me I only made a private memorandum to pray for her . 
She did not conceal from me that she would have preferred keeping silence on the subject . 
Some persons , hearing what I now heard , would have been probably overwhelmed with astonishment . 
Here surely was a case for a clergyman , if ever there was one yet ! Lady Verinder had thought it a case for a physician . 
All my poor aunt's early life had been passed in her father's godless household . 
Oh , what heathen advice ! I thought to myself . 
In this Christian country , what heathen advice ! My aunt went on , I do my best to carry out my instructions . 
But this strange adventure of Godfrey's happens at a most unfortunate time . 
Rachel has been incessantly restless and excited since she first heard of it . 
She left me no peace till I had written and asked my nephew Ablewhite to come here . 
She even feels an interest in the other person who was roughly used Mr. Luker , or some such name though the man is , of course , a total stranger to her . 
Your knowledge of the world , dear aunt , is superior to mine , I suggested diffidently . 
But there must be a reason surely for this extraordinary conduct on Rachel's part . 
She is keeping a sinful secret from you and from everybody . 
May there not be something in these recent events which threatens her secret with discovery ? Discovery ? repeated my aunt . 
What can you possibly mean ? Discovery through Mr. Luker ? Discovery through my nephew ? As the word passed her lips , a special providence occurred . 
The servant opened the door , and announced Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite . 
CHAPTER II Mr. Godfrey followed the announcement of his name as Mr. Godfrey does everything else exactly at the right time . 
He was not so close on the servant's heels as to startle us . 
He was not so far behind as to cause us the double inconvenience of a pause and an open door . 
It is in the completeness of his daily life that the true Christian appears . 
This dear man was very complete . 
Go to Miss Verinder , said my aunt , addressing the servant , and tell her Mr. Ablewhite is here . 
We both inquired after his health . 
We both asked him together whether he felt like himself again , after his terrible adventure of the past week . 
With perfect tact , he contrived to answer us at the same moment . 
Lady Verinder had his reply in words . 
I had his charming smile . 
I have only been blindfolded I have only been strangled I have only been thrown flat on my back , on a very thin carpet , covering a particularly hard floor . 
Just think how much worse it might have been ! I might have been murdered I might have been robbed . 
What have I lost ? Nothing but Nervous Force which the law doesn't recognise as property so that , strictly speaking , I have lost nothing at all . 
If I could have had my own way , I would have kept my adventure to myself I shrink from all this fuss and publicity . 
But Mr. Luker made HIS injuries public , and my injuries , as the necessary consequence , have been proclaimed in their turn . 
I have become the property of the newspapers , until the gentle reader gets sick of the subject . 
I am very sick indeed of it myself . 
I am sadly behind hand with my Committee Work and my dear Ladies . 
But I really do hope to look in at the Mothers' Small Clothes next week . 
The richness of his deep voice added its own indescribable charm to the interesting business question which he had just addressed to me . 
In truth , we were almost TOO nicely off for Trousers we were quite overwhelmed by them . 
I was just about to say so , when the door opened again , and an element of worldly disturbance entered the room , in the person of Miss Verinder . 
She approached dear Mr. Godfrey at a most unladylike rate of speed , with her hair shockingly untidy , and her face , what I should call , unbecomingly flushed . 
I am charmed to see you , Godfrey , she said , addressing him , I grieve to add , in the off hand manner of one young man talking to another . 
I wish you had brought Mr. Luker with you . 
are the two most interesting men in all London . 
It's morbid to say this it's unhealthy it's all that a well regulated mind like Miss Clack's most instinctively shudders at . 
Tell me the whole of the Northumberland Street story directly . 
I know the newspapers have left some of it out . 
Even dear Mr. Godfrey partakes of the fallen nature which we all inherit from Adam it is a very small share of our human legacy , but , alas ! he has it . 
I confess it grieved me to see him take Rachel's hand in both of his own hands , and lay it softly on the left side of his waistcoat . 
It was a direct encouragement to her reckless way of talking , and her insolent reference to me . 
Godfrey thinks we all make too much of the matter , my aunt remarked . 
He has just been saying that he doesn't care to speak of it . 
Why ? She put the question with a sudden flash in her eyes , and a sudden look up into Mr. Godfrey's face . 
On his side , he looked down at her with an indulgence so injudicious and so ill deserved , that I really felt called on to interfere . 
Rachel , darling ! I remonstrated gently , true greatness and true courage are ever modest . 
You have some private reason for not talking of your adventure in Northumberland Street and I mean to know it . 
My reason is the simplest imaginable , and the most easily acknowledged , he answered , still bearing with her . 
I am tired of the subject . 
You are tired of the subject ? My dear Godfrey , I am going to make a remark . 
What is it ? You live a great deal too much in the society of women . 
And you have contracted two very bad habits in consequence . 
You have learnt to talk nonsense seriously , and you have got into a way of telling fibs for the pleasure of telling them . 
You can't go straight with your lady worshippers . 
I mean to make you go straight with me . 
Come , and sit down . 
I am brimful of downright questions and I expect you to be brimful of downright answers . 
She actually dragged him across the room to a chair by the window , where the light would fall on his face . 
I deeply feel being obliged to report such language , and to describe such conduct . 
She sat unmoved apparently in no way disposed to interfere . 
I had never noticed this kind of torpor in her before . 
It was , perhaps , the reaction after the trying time she had had in the country . 
Not a pleasant symptom to remark , be it what it might , at dear Lady Verinder's age , and with dear Lady Verinder's autumnal exuberance of figure . 
In the meantime , Rachel had settled herself at the window with our amiable and forbearing our too forbearing Mr. Godfrey . 
Have the police done anything , Godfrey ? Nothing whatever . 
And not a trace of them has been discovered ? Not a trace . 
It is thought is it not ? that these three men are the three Indians who came to our house in the country . 
Do you think so ? My dear Rachel , they blindfolded me before I could see their faces . 
I know nothing whatever of the matter . 
How can I offer an opinion on it ? Even the angelic gentleness of Mr. Godfrey was , you see , beginning to give way at last under the persecution inflicted on him . 
Whether unbridled curiosity , or ungovernable dread , dictated Miss Verinder's questions I do not presume to inquire . 
My Christian friends , indeed , indeed , indeed , we must not judge others ! She went on with her questions , unabashed . 
I want to know something about Mr. Luker , Godfrey . 
I am again unfortunate , Rachel . 
No man knows less of Mr. Luker than I do . 
You never saw him before you and he met accidentally at the bank ? Never . 
You have seen him since ? Yes . 
We have been examined together , as well as separately , to assist the police . 
That's what the newspapers say . 
It may be enough for the general reader but it is not enough for me . 
The banker's receipt must have mentioned what the gem was ? The banker's receipt , Rachel as I have heard it described mentioned nothing of the kind . 
A valuable gem , belonging to Mr. Luker deposited by Mr. Luker sealed with Mr. Luker's seal and only to be given up on Mr. Luker's personal application . 
That was the form , and that is all I know about it . 
She waited a moment , after he had said that . 
She looked at her mother , and sighed . 
She looked back again at Mr. Godfrey , and went on . 
Some of our private affairs , at home , she said , seem to have got into the newspapers ? I grieve to say , it is so . 
The people who say that the three unknown men who ill used you and Mr. Luker are the three Indians , also say that the valuable gem There she stopped . 
She had become gradually , within the last few moments , whiter and whiter in the face . 
Dear Mr. Godfrey made a second attempt to leave his chair . 
My aunt entreated her to say no more . 
I followed my aunt with a modest medicinal peace offering , in the shape of a bottle of salts . 
We none of us produced the slightest effect on her . 
Godfrey , stay where you are . 
Mamma , there is not the least reason to be alarmed about me . 
Clack , you're dying to hear the end of it I won't faint , expressly to oblige YOU . 
Those were the exact words she used taken down in my diary the moment I got home . 
But , oh , don't let us judge ! My Christian friends , don't let us judge ! She turned once more to Mr. Godfrey . 
He lost the genial suavity of manner which is one of his greatest charms . 
A noble indignation inspired his reply . 
They DO say it , he answered . 
There are people who don't hesitate to accuse Mr. Luker of telling a falsehood to serve some private interests of his own . 
He has over and over again solemnly declared that , until this scandal assailed him , he had never even heard of the Moonstone . 
And these vile people reply , without a shadow of proof to justify them , He has his reasons for concealment we decline to believe him on his oath . 
Shameful ! shameful ! Rachel looked at him very strangely I can't well describe how while he was speaking . 
When he had done , she said , Considering that Mr. Luker is only a chance acquaintance of yours , you take up his cause , Godfrey , rather warmly . 
My gifted friend made her one of the most truly evangelical answers I ever heard in my life . 
I hope , Rachel , I take up the cause of all oppressed people rather warmly , he said . 
The tone in which those words were spoken might have melted a stone . 
But , oh dear , what is the hardness of stone ? Nothing , compared to the hardness of the unregenerate human heart ! She sneered . 
I blush to record it she sneered at him to his face . 
Keep your noble sentiments for your Ladies' Committees , Godfrey . 
I am certain that the scandal which has assailed Mr. Luker , has not spared You . 
Even my aunt's torpor was roused by those words . 
My dear Rachel , she remonstrated , you have really no right to say that ! I mean no harm , mamma I mean good . 
Have a moment's patience with me , and you will see . 
She looked back at Mr. Godfrey , with what appeared to be a sudden pity for him . 
She went the length the very unladylike length of taking him by the hand . 
I am certain , she said , that I have found out the true reason of your unwillingness to speak of this matter before my mother and before me . 
An unlucky accident has associated you in people's minds with Mr. Luker . 
You have told me what scandal says of HIM . 
What does scandal say of you ? Even at the eleventh hour , dear Mr. Godfrey always ready to return good for evil tried to spare her . 
Don't ask me ! he said . 
It's better forgotten , Rachel it is , indeed . 
I WILL hear it ! she cried out , fiercely , at the top of her voice . 
Tell her , Godfrey ! entreated my aunt . 
Nothing can do her such harm as your silence is doing now ! Mr. Godfrey's fine eyes filled with tears . 
She started to her feet with a scream . 
She looked backwards and forwards from Mr. Godfrey to my aunt , and from my aunt to Mr. Godfrey , in such a frantic manner that I really thought she had gone mad . 
Don't speak to me ! Don't touch me ! she exclaimed , shrinking back from all of us into a corner of the room . 
This is my fault ! I must set it right . 
I have sacrificed myself I had a right to do that , if I liked . 
She called to me faintly , and pointed to a little phial in her work box . 
Six drops , in water . 
Under other circumstances , I should have thought this strange . 
There was no time now to think there was only time to give the medicine . 
Dear Mr. Godfrey unconsciously assisted me in concealing what I was about from Rachel , by speaking composing words to her at the other end of the room . 
Indeed , indeed , you exaggerate , I heard him say . 
My reputation stands too high to be destroyed by a miserable passing scandal like this . 
It will be all forgotten in another week . 
Let us never speak of it again . 
She was perfectly inaccessible , even to such generosity as this . 
She went on from bad to worse . 
I must , and will , stop it , she said . 
Mamma ! hear what I say . 
Miss Clack ! hear what I say . 
I know the hand that took the Moonstone . 
I know she laid a strong emphasis on the words she stamped her foot in the rage that possessed her I KNOW THAT GODFREY ABLEWHITE IS INNOCENT . 
Don't let Rachel see me . 
I noticed a bluish tinge in her face which alarmed me . 
She saw I was startled . 
The drops will put me right in a minute or two , she said , and so closed her eyes , and waited a little . 
While this was going on , I heard dear Mr. Godfrey still gently remonstrating . 
You must not appear publicly in such a thing as this , he sad . 
YOUR reputation , dearest Rachel , is something too pure and too sacred to be trifled with . 
MY reputation ! She burst out laughing . 
Why , I am accused , Godfrey , as well as you . 
The best detective officer in England declares that I have stolen my own Diamond . 
I won't let you I won't let any innocent man be accused and disgraced through my fault . 
If you won't take me before the magistrate , draw out a declaration of your innocence on paper , and I will sign it . 
Indulgent Mr. Godfrey pacified her by taking a sheet of paper , and drawing out the declaration . 
She signed it in a feverish hurry . 
Show it everywhere don't think of ME , she said , as she gave it to him . 
I am afraid , Godfrey , I have not done you justice , hitherto , in my thoughts . 
You are more unselfish you are a better man than I believed you to be . 
Come here when you can , and I will try and repair the wrong I have done you . 
She gave him her hand . 
I will come , dearest , he said , on condition that we don't speak of this hateful subject again . 
Never had I seen and heard our Christian Hero to less advantage than on this occasion . 
Before another word could be said by anybody , a thundering knock at the street door startled us all . 
Rachel started , and composed herself . 
She crossed the room to her mother . 
They have come to take me to the flower show , she said . 
One word , mamma , before I go . 
The drops had produced their effect . 
My poor aunt's complexion was like itself again . 
No , no , my dear , she said . 
Go with our friends , and enjoy yourself . 
Her daughter stooped , and kissed her . 
I had left the window , and was near the door , when Rachel approached it to go out . 
Another change had come over her she was in tears . 
I looked with interest at the momentary softening of that obdurate heart . 
I felt inclined to say a few earnest words . 
Alas ! my well meant sympathy only gave offence . 
What do you mean by pitying me ? she asked in a bitter whisper , as she passed to the door . 
Don't you see how happy I am ? I'm going to the flower show , Clack and I've got the prettiest bonnet in London . 
She completed the hollow mockery of that address by blowing me a kiss and so left the room . 
I wish I could describe in words the compassion I felt for this miserable and misguided girl . 
But I am almost as poorly provided with words as with money . 
Permit me to say my heart bled for her . 
Returning to my aunt's chair , I observed dear Mr. Godfrey searching for something softly , here and there , in different parts of the room . 
Before I could offer to assist him he had found what he wanted . 
He came back to my aunt and me , with his declaration of innocence in one hand , and with a box of matches in the other . 
Dear aunt , a little conspiracy ! he said . 
Any trifling inconvenience that I may suffer is as nothing , he remarked , compared with the importance of preserving that pure name from the contaminating contact of the world . 
I was too deeply affected by his noble conduct to speak . 
I closed my eyes I put his hand , in a kind of spiritual self forgetfulness , to my lips . 
He murmured a soft remonstrance . 
Oh the ecstasy , the pure , unearthly ecstasy of that moment ! I sat I hardly know on what quite lost in my own exalted feelings . 
When I opened my eyes again , it was like descending from heaven to earth . 
There was nobody but my aunt in the room . 
I should like to stop here I should like to close my narrative with the record of Mr. Godfrey's noble conduct . 
Unhappily there is more , much more , which the unrelenting pecuniary pressure of Mr. Blake's cheque obliges me to tell . 
The painful disclosures which were to reveal themselves in my presence , during that Tuesday's visit to Montagu Square , were not at an end yet . 
My aunt's reply greatly surprised me . 
, you are touching quite innocently , I know on a very distressing subject . 
Delicacy left me but one alternative the alternative , after first making my apologies , of taking my leave . 
Lady Verinder stopped me , and insisted on my sitting down again . 
You have surprised a secret , she said , which I had confided to my sister Mrs. Ablewhite , and to my lawyer Mr. Bruff , and to no one else . 
I can trust in their discretion and I am sure , when I tell you the circumstances , I can trust in yours . 
Have you any pressing engagement , Drusilla ? or is your time your own this afternoon ? It is needless to say that my time was entirely at my aunt's disposal . 
Keep me company then , she said , for another hour . 
I have something to tell you which I believe you will be sorry to hear . 
And I shall have a service to ask of you afterwards , if you don't object to assist me . 
It is again needless to say that , so far from objecting , I was all eagerness to assist her . 
You can wait here , she went on , till Mr. Bruff comes at five . 
And you can be one of the witnesses , Drusilla , when I sign my Will . 
Her Will ! I thought of the drops which I had seen in her work box . 
I thought of the bluish tinge which I had noticed in her complexion . 
A light which was not of this world a light shining prophetically from an unmade grave dawned on my mind . 
My aunt's secret was a secret no longer . 
CHAPTER III Consideration for poor Lady Verinder forbade me even to hint that I had guessed the melancholy truth , before she opened her lips . 
I have been seriously ill , Drusilla , for some time past , my aunt began . 
And , strange to say , without knowing it myself . 
I thought of the thousands and thousands of perishing human creatures who were all at that moment spiritually ill , without knowing it themselves . 
And I greatly feared that my poor aunt might be one of the number . 
Yes , dear , I said , sadly . 
I brought Rachel to London , as you know , for medical advice , she went on . 
I thought it right to consult two doctors . 
, not one clergyman ! Yes , dear ? I said once more . 
Yes ? One of the two medical men , proceeded my aunt , was a stranger to me . 
The other had been an old friend of my husband's , and had always felt a sincere interest in me for my husband's sake . 
After prescribing for Rachel , he said he wished to speak to me privately in another room . 
I expected , of course , to receive some special directions for the management of my daughter's health . 
You are , I am afraid , far more urgently in need of medical advice than your daughter . 
He put some questions to me , which I was at first inclined to treat lightly enough , until I observed that my answers distressed him . 
I may live for some months , or I may die before another day has passed over my head the doctors cannot , and dare not , speak more positively than this . 
It would be vain to say , my dear , that I have not had some miserable moments since my real situation has been made known to me . 
But I am more resigned than I was , and I am doing my best to set my worldly affairs in order . 
My one great anxiety is that Rachel should be kept in ignorance of the truth . 
Both the doctors agree that the mischief began two , if not three years since . 
I am sure you will keep my secret , Drusilla for I am sure I see sincere sorrow and sympathy for me in your face . 
I took my aunt in my arms my overflowing tenderness was not to be satisfied , now , with anything less than an embrace . 
Alas ! the result was far from encouraging . 
Poor Lady Verinder looked puzzled and frightened , and met everything I could say to her with the purely worldly objection that she was not strong enough to face strangers . 
I yielded for the moment only , of course . 
informed me that this was another case for preparation by books . 
I possessed a little library of works , all suitable to the present emergency , all calculated to arouse , convince , prepare , enlighten , and fortify my aunt . 
You will read , dear , won't you ? I said , in my most winning way . 
You will read , if I bring you my own precious books ? Turned down at all the right places , aunt . 
She said , I will do what I can , Drusilla , to please you , with a look of surprise , which was at once instructive and terrible to see . 
Not a moment was to be lost . 
and to return in time to meet the lawyer , and witness Lady Verinder's Will . 
Promising faithfully to be back by five o'clock , I left the house on my errand of mercy . 
When no interests but my own are involved , I am humbly content to get from place to place by the omnibus . 
Permit me to give an idea of my devotion to my aunt's interests by recording that , on this occasion , I committed the prodigality of taking a cab . 
I paid the cabman exactly his fare . 
He received it with an oath upon which I instantly gave him a tract . 
If I had presented a pistol at his head , this abandoned wretch could hardly have exhibited greater consternation . 
He jumped up on his box , and , with profane exclamations of dismay , drove off furiously . 
Quite useless , I am happy to say ! I sowed the good seed , in spite of him , by throwing a second tract in at the window of the cab . 
Mr. Bruff , the lawyer , had arrived a minute since and was waiting in the library . 
I was shown into the library to wait too . 
Mr. Bruff looked surprised to see me . 
He is the family solicitor , and we had met more than once , on previous occasions , under Lady Verinder's roof . 
A man , I grieve to say , grown old and grizzled in the service of the world . 
Have you come to stay here , Miss Clack ? he asked , with a look at my carpet bag . 
To reveal the contents of my precious bag to such a person as this would have been simply to invite an outburst of profanity . 
I lowered myself to his own level , and mentioned my business in the house . 
My aunt has informed me that she is about to sign her Will , I answered . 
She has been so good as to ask me to be one of the witnesses . 
Aye ? aye ? Well , Miss Clack , you will do . 
You are over twenty one , and you have not the slightest pecuniary interest in Lady Verinder's Will . 
Not the slightest pecuniary interest in Lady Verinder's Will . 
Not the cruellest scoffer of them all could doubt now . 
Much better as it was ! Oh , surely , surely , much better as it was ! I was aroused from these consoling reflections by the voice of Mr. Bruff . 
My meditative silence appeared to weigh upon the spirits of this worldling , and to force him , as it were , into talking to me against his own will . 
But the tone in which he alluded to dear Mr. Godfrey was too much for my forbearance . 
I live very much out of the world , I said and I don't possess the advantage , sir , of belonging to a club . 
But I happen to know the story to which you allude and I also know that a viler falsehood than that story never was told . 
Yes , yes , Miss Clack you believe in your friend . 
Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite , won't find the world in general quite so easy to convince as a committee of charitable ladies . 
Appearances are dead against him . 
He was in the house when the Diamond was lost . 
And he was the first person in the house to go to London afterwards . 
Those are ugly circumstances , ma'am , viewed by the light of later events . 
I ought , I know , to have set him right before he went any farther . 
Alas ! the temptation to lead the lawyer artfully on to his own discomfiture was too much for me . 
I asked what he meant by later events with an appearance of the utmost innocence . 
What do the Indians do , the moment they are let out of the prison at Frizinghall ? They go straight to London , and fix on Mr. Luker . 
What follows ? Mr. Luker feels alarmed for the safety of a valuable of great price , which he has got in the house . 
in his bankers' strong room . 
Wonderfully clever of him but the Indians are just as clever on their side . 
They have their suspicions that the valuable of great price is being shifted from one place to another and they hit on a singularly bold and complete way of clearing those suspicions up . 
Whom do they seize and search ? Not Mr. Luker only which would be intelligible enough but Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite as well . 
Why ? Mr. Ablewhite's explanation is , that they acted on blind suspicion , after seeing him accidentally speaking to Mr. Luker . 
Absurd ! Half a dozen other people spoke to Mr. Luker that morning . 
Public opinion says that , Miss Clack . 
And public opinion , on this occasion , is not easily refuted . 
could not resist leading him a little farther still , before I overwhelmed him with the truth . 
I don't presume to argue with a clever lawyer like you , I said . 
Do you mean to tell me , Miss Clack , that you agree with the Sergeant ? I judge nobody , sir , and I offer no opinion . 
And I commit both those enormities , ma'am . 
I admit that she has her faults she is secret , and self willed odd and wild , and unlike other girls of her age . 
But true as steel , and high minded and generous to a fault . 
She is so absolutely to be relied on as that ? So absolutely to be relied on as that . 
I enjoyed the triumph the unholy triumph , I fear I must admit of seeing Mr. Bruff utterly confounded and overthrown by a few plain words from Me . 
He started to his feet , and stared at me in silence . 
I kept my seat , undisturbed , and related the whole scene as it had occurred . 
And what do you say about Mr. Ablewhite now ? I asked , with the utmost possible gentleness , as soon as I had done . 
You would have done great things in my profession , ma'am , if you had happened to be a man . 
With those words he turned away from me , and began walking irritably up and down the room . 
I could see plainly that the new light I had thrown on the subject had greatly surprised and disturbed him . 
He had not scrupled to suspect dear Mr. Godfrey of the infamy of stealing the Diamond , and to attribute Rachel's conduct to a generous resolution to conceal the crime . 
On Miss Verinder's own authority a perfectly unassailable authority , as you are aware , in the estimation of Mr. Bruff that explanation of the circumstances was now shown to be utterly wrong . 
The perplexity into which I had plunged this high legal authority was so overwhelming that he was quite unable to conceal it from notice . 
What a case ! I heard him say to himself , stopping at the window in his walk , and drumming on the glass with his fingers . 
It not only defies explanation , it's even beyond conjecture . 
It seems almost beyond mere mortal perversity that I should have discovered , in what he had just said , a new opportunity of making myself personally disagreeable to him . 
But surely there is a conjecture to make which has not occurred to us yet . 
I own I don't know what it is . 
Permit me to remind you that Mr. Franklin Blake was also in the house at the time when the Diamond was lost . 
The old wordling left the window , took a chair exactly opposite to mine , and looked at me steadily , with a hard and vicious smile . 
You are not so good a lawyer , Miss Clack , he remarked in a meditative manner , as I supposed . 
You don't know how to let well alone . 
I am afraid I fail to follow you , Mr. Bruff , I said , modestly . 
It won't do , Miss Clack it really won't do a second time . 
Franklin Blake is a prime favourite of mine , as you are well aware . 
I'll adopt your view , on this occasion , before you have time to turn round on me . 
You're quite right , ma'am . 
I have suspected Mr. Ablewhite , on grounds which abstractedly justify suspecting Mr. Blake too . 
Very good let's suspect them together . 
It's quite in his character , we will say , to be capable of stealing the Moonstone . 
The only question is , whether it was his interest to do so . 
Mr. Franklin Blake's debts , I remarked , are matters of family notoriety . 
And Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite's debts have not arrived at that stage of development yet . 
But there happen to be two difficulties in the way of your theory , Miss Clack . 
are quite content to charge interest on their debts , and to wait for their money . 
There is the first difficulty which is tough enough . 
You will find the second tougher still . 
I have it on the authority of Lady Verinder herself , that her daughter was ready to marry Franklin Blake , before that infernal Indian Diamond disappeared from the house . 
She had drawn him on and put him off again , with the coquetry of a young girl . 
But she had confessed to her mother that she loved cousin Franklin , and her mother had trusted cousin Franklin with the secret . 
So there he was , Miss Clack , with his creditors content to wait , and with the certain prospect before him of marrying an heiress . 
By all means consider him a scoundrel but tell me , if you please , why he should steal the Moonstone ? The human heart is unsearchable , I said gently . 
Why the devil I beg your pardon , Mr. Bruff . 
If I hear the devil referred to in that manner , I must leave the room . 
I beg YOUR pardon , Miss Clack I'll be more careful in my choice of language for the future . 
All I meant to ask was this . 
I answer that he had no need to divert suspicion because nobody suspected him . 
That is the monstrous proposition which you are driven to assert , if you attempt to associate the disappearance of the Moonstone with Franklin Blake . 
No , no , Miss Clack ! After what has passed here to day , between us two , the dead lock , in this case , is complete . 
Mr. Ablewhite's innocence is equally certain or Rachel would never have testified to it . 
And Franklin Blake's innocence , as you have just seen , unanswerably asserts itself . 
On the one hand , we are morally certain of all these things . 
It had not baffled Sergeant Cuff . 
Mr. Bruff collected his papers , looking a little exhausted by the demands which our conversation had made on him . 
I took up my bag full of precious publications , feeling as if I could have gone on talking for hours . 
We proceeded in silence to Lady Verinder's room . 
I have been obliged to acknowledge that my fallen nature got the better of me . 
In making that humiliating confession , I get the better of my fallen nature . 
The moral balance is restored the spiritual atmosphere feels clear once more . 
Dear friends , we may go on again . 
CHAPTER IV The signing of the Will was a much shorter matter than I had anticipated . 
It was hurried over , to my thinking , in indecent haste . 
Samuel , the footman , was sent for to act as second witness and the pen was put at once into my aunt's hand . 
I felt strongly urged to say a few appropriate words on this solemn occasion . 
But Mr. Bruff's manner convinced me that it was wisest to check the impulse while he was in the room . 
Mr. Bruff folded up the Will , and then looked my way apparently wondering whether I did or did not mean to leave him alone with my aunt . 
I had my mission of mercy to fulfil , and my bag of precious publications ready on my lap . 
He might as well have expected to move St . 
Paul's Cathedral by looking at it , as to move Me . 
There was one merit about him which I have no wish to deny . 
He was quick at seeing things . 
I appeared to produce almost the same impression on him which I had produced on the cabman . 
HE too uttered a profane expression , and withdrew in a violent hurry , and left me mistress of the field . 
As soon as we were alone , my aunt reclined on the sofa , and then alluded , with some appearance of confusion , to the subject of her Will . 
I hope you won't think yourself neglected , Drusilla , she said . 
I mean to GIVE you your little legacy , my dear , with my own hand . 
Here was a golden opportunity ! I seized it on the spot . 
In other words , I instantly opened my bag , and took out the top publication . 
, entitled THE SERPENT AT HOME . 
The chapters best adapted to female perusal are Satan in the Hair Brush Satan behind the Looking Glass Satan under the Tea Table Satan out of the Window' and many others . 
Give your attention , dear aunt , to this precious book and you will give me all I ask . 
With those words , I handed it to her open , at a marked passage one continuous burst of burning eloquence ! Subject Satan among the Sofa Cushions . 
glanced at the book , and handed it back to me looking more confused than ever . 
I'm afraid , Drusilla , she said , I must wait till I am a little better , before I can read that . 
The doctor The moment she mentioned the doctor's name , I knew what was coming . 
now sought to rob me of the only right of property that my poverty could claim my right of spiritual property in my perishing aunt . 
The doctor tells me , my poor misguided relative went on , that I am not so well to day . 
He forbids me to see any strangers and he orders me , if I read at all , only to read the lightest and the most amusing books . 
'Do nothing , Lady Verinder , to weary your head , or to quicken your pulse' those were his last words , Drusilla , when he left me to day . 
There was no help for it but to yield again for the moment only , as before . 
Happily , there are more ways than one of sowing the good seed , and few persons are better versed in those ways than myself . 
You might feel stronger , dear , in an hour or two , I said . 
Or you might wake , to morrow morning , with a sense of something wanting , and even this unpretending volume might be able to supply it . 
Every time her hand searched for either of these , it would touch the book and , sooner or later the book might touch HER . 
After making this arrangement , I thought it wise to withdraw . 
Let me leave you to repose , dear aunt I will call again to morrow . 
I looked accidentally towards the window as I said that . 
It was full of flowers , in boxes and pots . 
Lady Verinder was extravagantly fond of these perishable treasures , and had a habit of rising every now and then , and going to look at them and smell them . 
A new idea flashed across my mind . 
Oh ! may I take a flower ? I said and got to the window unsuspected , in that way . 
Samuel , coming up to let me out , and supposing I had gone , went down stairs again . 
On the library table I noticed two of the amusing books which the infidel doctor had recommended . 
I instantly covered them from sight with two of my own precious publications . 
In the breakfast room I found my aunt's favourite canary singing in his cage . 
She was always in the habit of feeding the bird herself . 
Some groundsel was strewed on a table which stood immediately under the cage . 
I put a book among the groundsel . 
In the drawing room I found more cheering opportunities of emptying my bag . 
My aunt's favourite musical pieces were on the piano . 
I slipped in two more books among the music . 
I disposed of another in the back drawing room , under some unfinished embroidery , which I knew to be of Lady Verinder's working . 
A third little room opened out of the back drawing room , from which it was shut off by curtains instead of a door . 
My aunt's plain old fashioned fan was on the chimney piece . 
I opened my ninth book at a very special passage , and put the fan in as a marker , to keep the place . 
But oh , what of that ? It is a poor Christian that is afraid of being insulted . 
I went upstairs , prepared to bear anything . 
All was silent and solitary it was the servants' tea time , I suppose . 
My aunt's room was in front . 
The minature of my late dear uncle , Sir John , hung on the wall opposite the bed . 
It seemed to smile at me it seemed to say , Drusilla ! deposit a book . 
There were tables on either side of my aunt's bed . 
She was a bad sleeper , and wanted , or thought she wanted , many things at night . 
I put a book near the matches on one side , and a book under the box of chocolate drops on the other . 
I observed a dressing gown thrown across a chair . 
It had a pocket in it , and in that pocket I put my last book . 
I was so light hearted that I sang a verse of the Evening Hymn . 
I was so light hearted that I fell asleep before I could sing another . 
Quite like a child again ! quite like a child again ! So I passed that blissful night . 
But I am not capable and I add nothing . 
Towards luncheon time not for the sake of the creature comforts , but for the certainty of finding dear aunt I put on my bonnet to go to Montagu Square . 
Just as I was ready , the maid at the lodgings in which I then lived looked in at the door , and said , Lady Verinder's servant , to see Miss Clack . 
I occupied the parlour floor , at that period of my residence in London . 
The front parlour was my sitting room . 
It was the young footman , Samuel a civil fresh coloured person , with a teachable look and a very obliging manner . 
I had always felt a spiritual interest in Samuel , and a wish to try him with a few serious words . 
On this occasion , I invited him into my sitting room . 
He came in , with a large parcel under his arm . 
When he put the parcel down , it appeared to frighten him . 
My lady's love , Miss and I was to say that you would find a letter inside . 
Having given that message , the fresh coloured young footman surprised me by looking as if he would have liked to run away . 
I detained him to make a few kind inquiries . 
Could I see my aunt , if I called in Montagu Square ? No she had gone out for a drive . 
Miss Rachel had gone with her , and Mr. Ablewhite had taken a seat in the carriage , too . 
Knowing how sadly dear Mr. Godfrey's charitable work was in arrear , I thought it odd that he should be going out driving , like an idle man . 
I stopped Samuel at the door , and made a few more kind inquiries . 
Miss Rachel was going to a ball that night , and Mr. Ablewhite had arranged to come to coffee , and go with her . 
There was a morning concert advertised for to morrow , and Samuel was ordered to take places for a large party , including a place for Mr. Ablewhite . 
We had a special meeting of the Mothers' Small Clothes Conversion Society that night , summoned expressly with a view to obtaining Mr. Godfrey's advice and assistance . 
To return , however , to the history of the passing day . 
On finding myself alone in my room , I naturally turned my attention to the parcel which appeared to have so strangely intimidated the fresh coloured young footman . 
What was to be done now ? With my training and my principles , I never had a moment's doubt . 
Once self supported by conscience , once embarked on a career of manifest usefulness , the true Christian never yields . 
Neither public nor private influences produce the slightest effect on us , when we have once got our mission . 
We are above reason we are beyond ridicule we see with nobody's eyes , we hear with nobody's ears , we feel with nobody's hearts , but our own . 
In the case of my misguided aunt , the form which pious perseverance was next to take revealed itself to me plainly enough . 
Preparation by clerical friends had failed , owing to Lady Verinder's own reluctance . 
Preparation by books had failed , owing to the doctor's infidel obstinacy . 
So be it ! What was the next thing to try ? The next thing to try was Preparation by Little Notes . 
As letters they would excite no suspicion as letters they would be opened and , once opened , might be read . 
Some of them I wrote myself . 
Dear aunt , may I ask your attention to a few lines ? c . 
Dear aunt , I was reading last night , and I chanced on the following passage , c . 
Other letters were written for me by my valued fellow workers , the sisterhood at the Mothers' Small Clothes . 
Dear madam , pardon the interest taken in you by a true , though humble , friend . 
Before the shades of evening had closed around us , I had a dozen awakening letters for my aunt , instead of a dozen awakening books . 
Six I made immediate arrangements for sending through the post , and six I kept in my pocket for personal distribution in the house the next day . 
Soon after two o'clock I was again on the field of pious conflict , addressing more kind inquiries to Samuel at Lady Verinder's door . 
My aunt had had a bad night . 
She was again in the room in which I had witnessed her Will , resting on the sofa , and trying to get a little sleep . 
I said I would wait in the library , on the chance of seeing her . 
In the fervour of my zeal to distribute the letters , it never occurred to me to inquire about Rachel . 
The house was quiet , and it was past the hour at which the musical performance began . 
were all at the concert , and eagerly devoted myself to my good work , while time and opportunity were still at my own disposal . 
My aunt's correspondence of the morning including the six awakening letters which I had posted overnight was lying unopened on the library table . 
A second letter I put purposely on the floor in the breakfast room . 
The first servant who went in after me would conclude that my aunt had dropped it , and would be specially careful to restore it to her . 
The field thus sown on the basement story , I ran lightly upstairs to scatter my mercies next over the drawing room floor . 
Just as I entered the front room , I heard a double knock at the street door a soft , fluttering , considerate little knock . 
, the active young footman was in the hall , answering the door . 
It mattered little , as I thought . 
In my aunt's state of health , visitors in general were not admitted . 
To my horror and amazement , the performer of the soft little knock proved to be an exception to general rules . 
said , unmistakably , Upstairs , if you please , sir . 
The next moment I heard footsteps a man's footsteps approaching the drawing room floor . 
Who could this favoured male visitor possibly be ? Almost as soon as I asked myself the question , the answer occurred to me . 
Who COULD it be but the doctor ? In the case of any other visitor , I should have allowed myself to be discovered in the drawing room . 
There would have been nothing out of the common in my having got tired of the library , and having gone upstairs for a change . 
But my own self respect stood in the way of my meeting the person who had insulted me by sending me back my books . 
I slipped into the little third room , which I have mentioned as communicating with the back drawing room , and dropped the curtains which closed the open doorway . 
If I only waited there for a minute or two , the usual result in such cases would take place . 
That is to say , the doctor would be conducted to his patient's room . 
I waited a minute or two , and more than a minute or two . 
I heard the visitor walking restlessly backwards and forwards . 
I also heard him talking to himself . 
I even thought I recognised the voice . 
Whoever he was , he was still talking to himself . 
I parted the heavy curtains the least little morsel in the world , and listened . 
The words I heard were , I'll do it to day ! And the voice that spoke them was Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite's . 
CHAPTER V My hand dropped from the curtain . 
No ! I thought only of the words the startling words which had just fallen from his lips . 
He would do it to day . 
He had said , in a tone of terrible resolution , he would do it to day . 
It penetrated through the curtains it was loud , it was bold , it was wanting in every female charm . 
The voice of Rachel Verinder . 
Why have you come up here , Godfrey ? she asked . 
Why didn't you go into the library ? He laughed softly , and answered , Miss Clack is in the library . 
Clack in the library ! She instantly seated herself on the ottoman in the back drawing room . 
You are quite right , Godfrey . 
We had much better stop here . 
I had been in a burning fever , a moment since , and in some doubt what to do next . 
I became extremely cold now , and felt no doubt whatever . 
To show myself , after what I had heard , was impossible . 
To retreat except into the fireplace was equally out of the question . 
A martyrdom was before me . 
In justice to myself , I noiselessly arranged the curtains so that I could both see and hear . 
And then I met my martyrdom , with the spirit of a primitive Christian . 
Don't sit on the ottoman , the young lady proceeded . 
Bring a chair , Godfrey . 
I like people to be opposite to me when I talk to them . 
He took the nearest seat . 
It was a low chair . 
He was very tall , and many sizes too large for it . 
I never saw his legs to such disadvantage before . 
Well ? she went on . 
What did you say to them ? Just what you said , dear Rachel , to me . 
That mamma was not at all well to day ? And that I didn't quite like leaving her to go to the concert ? Those were the words . 
They were grieved to lose you at the concert , but they quite understood . 
All sent their love and all expressed a cheering belief that Lady Verinder's indisposition would soon pass away . 
YOU don't think it's serious , do you , Godfrey ? Far from it ! In a few days , I feel quite sure , all will be well again . 
I think so , too . 
I was a little frightened at first , but I think so too . 
It was very kind to go and make my excuses for me to people who are almost strangers to you . 
But why not have gone with them to the concert ? It seems very hard that you should miss the music too . 
Don't say that , Rachel ! If you only knew how much happier I am here , with you ! He clasped his hands , and looked at her . 
In the position which he occupied , when he did that , he turned my way . 
But do try to get over the habit of paying compliments do , to please me . 
I never paid you a compliment , Rachel , in my life . 
Successful love may sometimes use the language of flattery , I admit . 
But hopeless love , dearest , always speaks the truth . 
He drew his chair close , and took her hand , when he said hopeless love . 
There was a momentary silence . 
He , who thrilled everybody , had doubtless thrilled HER . 
I thought I now understood the words which had dropped from him when he was alone in the drawing room , I'll do it to day . 
Alas ! the most rigid propriety could hardly have failed to discover that he was doing it now . 
Have you forgotten what we agreed on , Godfrey , when you spoke to me in the country ? We agreed that we were to be cousins , and nothing more . 
I break the agreement , Rachel , every time I see you . 
Quite useless ! I break the agreement every time I think of you . 
Exeter Hall again ! Nothing wanting to complete the parallel but the audience , the cheers , and the glass of water . 
Even her obdurate nature was touched . 
I saw her lean a little nearer to him . 
I heard a new tone of interest in her next words . 
Are you really sure , Godfrey , that you are so fond of me as that ? Sure ! You know what I was , Rachel . 
Let me tell you what I am . 
I have lost every interest in life , but my interest in you . 
A transformation has come over me which I can't account for , myself . 
I thought of the Mothers' Small Clothes . 
I thought of the Sunday Sweetheart Supervision . 
I thought of the other Societies , too numerous to mention , all built up on this man as on a tower of strength . 
At the same time , it is only justice to myself to add , that I didn't lose a syllable of the conversation . 
Rachel was the next to speak . 
You have made your confession , she said . 
I wonder whether it would cure you of your unhappy attachment to me , if I made mine ? He started . 
I confess I started too . 
He thought , and I thought , that she was about to divulge the mystery of the Moonstone . 
Would you think , to look at me , she went on , that I am the wretchedest girl living ? It's true , Godfrey . 
What greater wretchedness can there be than to live degraded in your own estimation ? That is my life now . 
Your silence , dearest , has never lowered you in the estimation of your true friends . 
I can hear of the loss of the Moonstone , let who will speak of it , without feeling degraded in my own estimation . 
It's my fault for not speaking more plainly . 
Cost me what it may , I will be plainer now . 
No ! you mustn't leave me you mustn't carry away a wrong impression . 
I must say what is to be said in my own defence . 
Mind this ! HE doesn't know he never will know , what I have told you . 
Her head dropped on the cushions and she burst out crying . 
Before I had time to feel shocked , at this , I was horror struck by an entirely unexpected proceeding on the part of Mr. Godfrey . 
Will it be credited that he fell on his knees at her feet . 
She sat , either quite thunderstruck , or quite fascinated I don't know which without even making an effort to put his arms back where his arms ought to have been . 
As for me , my sense of propriety was completely bewildered . 
I was so painfully uncertain whether it was my first duty to close my eyes , or to stop my ears , that I did neither . 
I attribute my being still able to hold the curtain in the right position for looking and listening , entirely to suppressed hysterics . 
In suppressed hysterics , it is admitted , even by the doctors , that one must hold something . 
When such a woman marries , if her husband only wins her esteem and regard , he wins enough to ennoble his whole life . 
You have spoken , dearest , of your place in my estimation . 
Judge what that place is when I implore you on my knees , to let the cure of your poor wounded heart be my care . 
Godfrey ! she said , you must be mad ! I never spoke more reasonably , dearest in your interests , as well as in mine . 
Look for a moment to the future . 
Surround yourself with nobler interests than the wretched interests of the world . 
Let the rest be left , confidently left , to your husband's devotion , and to Time that heals even wounds as deep as yours . 
She began to yield already . 
Don't tempt me to be more wretched and more wreckless still ! One question , Rachel . 
Have you any personal objection to me ? I ! I always liked you . 
After what you have just said to me , I should be insensible indeed if I didn't respect and admire you as well . 
Do you know many wives , my dear Rachel , who respect and admire their husbands ? And yet they and their husbands get on very well . 
Look at your own case once again . 
At your age , and with your attractions , is it possible for you to sentence yourself to a single life ? Trust my knowledge of the world nothing is less possible . 
It is merely a question of time . 
You may marry some other man , some years hence . 
Gently , Godfrey ! you are putting something into my head which I never thought of before . 
You are tempting me with a new prospect , when all my other prospects are closed before me . 
I tell you again , I am miserable enough and desperate enough , if you say another word , to marry you on your own terms . 
Do you feel as confidently as you speak ? You shall judge for yourself . 
I speak from what I have seen in my own family . 
Tell me what you think of our household at Frizinghall . 
Do my father and mother live unhappily together ? Far from it so far as I can see . 
, she had loved as you love she had given her heart to a man who was unworthy of her . 
She married my father , respecting him , admiring him , but nothing more . 
Your own eyes have seen the result . 
Is there no encouragement in it for you and for me ? See Betteredge's Narrative , chapter viii . 
You won't hurry me , Godfrey ? My time shall be yours . 
You won't ask me for more than I can give ? My angel ! I only ask you to give me yourself . 
Take me ! In those two words she accepted him ! He had another burst a burst of unholy rapture this time . 
He drew her nearer and nearer to him till her face touched his and then No ! I really cannot prevail upon myself to carry this shocking disclosure any farther . 
Let me only say , that I tried to close my eyes before it happened , and that I was just one moment too late . 
I had calculated , you see , on her resisting . 
To every right feeling person of my own sex , volumes could say no more . 
Even my innocence in such matters began to see its way to the end of the interview now . 
They understood each other so thoroughly by this time , that I fully expected to see them walk off together , arm in arm , to be married . 
There appeared , however , judging by Mr. Godfrey's next words , to be one more trifling formality which it was necessary to observe . 
He seated himself unforbidden this time on the ottoman by her side . 
Shall I speak to your dear mother ? he asked . 
Or will you ? She declined both alternatives . 
Let my mother hear nothing from either of us , until she is better . 
I wish it to be kept a secret for the present , Godfrey . 
Go now , and come back this evening . 
We have been here alone together quite long enough . 
She rose , and in rising , looked for the first time towards the little room in which my martyrdom was going on . 
Who has drawn those curtains ? she exclaimed . 
The room is close enough , as it is , without keeping the air out of it in that way . 
She advanced to the curtains . 
It was unmistakably the voice of a man in great alarm . 
Miss Rachel ! he called out , where are you , Miss Rachel ? She sprang back from the curtains , and ran to the door . 
The footman came just inside the room . 
His ruddy colour was all gone . 
He said , Please to come down stairs , Miss ! My lady has fainted , and we can't bring her to again . 
In a moment more I was alone , and free to go down stairs in my turn , quite unobserved . 
Mr. Godfrey passed me in the hall , hurrying out , to fetch the doctor . 
Go in , and help them ! he said , pointing to the room . 
I found Rachel on her knees by the sofa , with her mother's head on her bosom . 
was enough to warn me of the dreadful truth . 
I kept my thoughts to myself till the doctor came in . 
It was not long before he arrived . 
He began by sending Rachel out of the room and then he told the rest of us that Lady Verinder was no more . 
Serious persons , in search of proofs of hardened scepticism , may be interested in hearing that he showed no signs of remorse when he looked at Me . 
At a later hour I peeped into the breakfast room , and the library . 
My aunt had died without opening one of the letters which I had addressed to her . 
I was so shocked at this , that it never occurred to me , until some days afterwards , that she had also died without giving me my little legacy . 
She has , therefore , attached to her own manuscripts , copious Extracts from precious publications in her possession , all bearing on this terrible subject . 
sound as the blast of a trumpet in the ears of her respected kinsman , Mr. Franklin Blake . 
Mr. Franklin Blake presents his compliments to Miss Clack , and begs to thank her for the fifth chapter of her narrative . 
Miss Clack begs to acknowledge the return of her Extracts . 
She affectionately reminds Mr. Franklin Blake that she is a Christian , and that it is , therefore , quite impossible for him to offend her . 
Mr. Franklin Blake is sorry to disappoint Miss Clack . 
He can only repeat the instructions which he had the honour of giving her when she began her narrative . 
She is requested to limit herself to her own individual experience of persons and events , as recorded in her diary . 
Later discoveries she will be good enough to leave to the pens of those persons who can write in the capacity of actual witnesses . 
Miss Clack is extremely sorry to trouble Mr. Franklin Blake with another letter . 
Her Extracts have been returned , and the expression of her matured views on the subject of the Moonstone has been forbidden . 
to feel herself put down . 
But , no Miss C. has learnt Perseverance in the School of Adversity . 
And Miss Clack , on her side , is most anxious that her letters should be produced to speak for themselves . 
Mr. Franklin Blake agrees to Miss Clack's proposal , on the understanding that she will kindly consider this intimation of his consent as closing the correspondence between them . 
to inform Mr. Franklin Blake that his last letter evidently intended to offend her has not succeeded in accomplishing the object of the writer . 
On being favoured with an intimation to that effect , Miss C. solemnly pledges herself to send back the complete series of her Extracts to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
To this letter no answer was received . 
That meeting was the occasion of my spending a few days under the same roof with her . 
In the course of my visit , something happened , relative to her marriage engagement with Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite , which is important enough to require special notice in these pages . 
My aunt's remains were removed from London , and were buried in the little cemetery attached to the church in her own park . 
I was invited to the funeral with the rest of the family . 
to rouse myself in a few days only from the shock which this death had caused me . 
I was informed , moreover , that the rector of Frizinghall was to read the service . 
Lady Verinder's death left her daughter under the care of her brother in law , Mr. Ablewhite the elder . 
He was appointed guardian by the will , until his niece married , or came of age . 
Under these circumstances , Mr. Godfrey informed his father , I suppose , of the new relation in which he stood towards Rachel . 
Rachel gave him some trouble at the outset , about the choice of a place in which she could be prevailed upon to reside . 
The house in Montagu Square was associated with the calamity of her mother's death . 
The house in Yorkshire was associated with the scandalous affair of the lost Moonstone . 
Her guardian's own residence at Frizinghall was open to neither of these objections . 
It ended in a proposal , emanating from old Mr. Ablewhite , to try a furnished house at Brighton . 
His wife , an invalid daughter , and Rachel were to inhabit it together , and were to expect him to join them later in the season . 
They would see no society but a few old friends , and they would have his son Godfrey , travelling backwards and forwards by the London train , always at their disposal . 
I describe this aimless flitting about from one place of residence to another this insatiate restlessness of body and appalling stagnation of soul merely with the view to arriving at results . 
proved to be the means of bringing Rachel Verinder and myself together again , was no other than the hiring of the house at Brighton . 
My Aunt Ablewhite is a large , silent , fair complexioned woman , with one noteworthy point in her character . 
From the hour of her birth she has never been known to do anything for herself . 
She has gone through life , accepting everybody's help , and adopting everybody's opinions . 
A more hopeless person , in a spiritual point of view , I have never met with there is absolutely , in this perplexing case , no obstructive material to work upon . 
Aunt Ablewhite would listen to the Grand Lama of Thibet exactly as she listens to Me , and would reflect his views quite as readily as she reflects mine . 
She found the furnished house at Brighton by stopping at an hotel in London , composing herself on a sofa , and sending for her son . 
, and giving her maid a holiday on condition that the girl would begin enjoying herself by fetching Miss Clack . 
I found her placidly fanning herself in her dressing gown at eleven o'clock . 
Drusilla , dear , I want some servants . 
You are so clever please get them for me . 
I looked round the untidy room . 
The church bells were going for a week day service they suggested a word of affectionate remonstrance on my part . 
Oh , aunt ! I said sadly . 
What was to be said after that ? I have done wonders with murderesses I have never advanced an inch with Aunt Ablewhite . 
Where is the list , I asked , of the servants whom you require ? My aunt shook her head she hadn't even energy enough to keep the list . 
Rachel has got it , dear , she said , in the next room . 
I went into the next room , and so saw Rachel again for the first time since we had parted in Montagu Square . 
She looked pitiably small and thin in her deep mourning . 
I am glad to see you , she said . 
Drusilla , I have been in the habit of speaking very foolishly and very rudely to you , on former occasions . 
I hope you will forgive me . 
My face , I suppose , betrayed the astonishment I felt at this . 
She coloured up for a moment , and then proceeded to explain herself . 
In my poor mother's lifetime , she went on , her friends were not always my friends , too . 
Now I have lost her , my heart turns for comfort to the people she liked . 
Try to be friends with me , Drusilla , if you can . 
To any rightly constituted mind , the motive thus acknowledged was simply shocking . 
There could be no harm , I thought , in ascertaining the extent of the change which the loss of her mother had wrought in Rachel's character . 
I decided , as a useful test , to probe her on the subject of her marriage engagement to Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite . 
Having first met her advances with all possible cordiality , I sat by her on the sofa , at her own request . 
We discussed family affairs and future plans always excepting that one future plan which was to end in her marriage . 
Try as I might to turn the conversation that way , she resolutely declined to take the hint . 
Any open reference to the question , on my part , would have been premature at this early stage of our reconciliation . 
Besides , I had discovered all I wanted to know . 
She was no longer the reckless , defiant creature whom I had heard and seen , on the occasion of my martyrdom in Montagu Square . 
Rapidity of proceeding was , as I believed , of importance in this case . 
I went back at once to the question of the servants wanted for the furnished house . 
Where is the list , dear ? Rachel produced it . 
Cook , kitchen maid , housemaid , and footman , I read . 
My dear Rachel , these servants are only wanted for a term the term during which your guardian has taken the house . 
We shall have great difficulty in finding persons of character and capacity to accept a temporary engagement of that sort , if we try in London . 
Has the house in Brighton been found yet ? Yes . 
Godfrey has taken it and persons in the house wanted him to hire them as servants . 
He thought they would hardly do for us , and came back having settled nothing . 
And you have no experience yourself in these matters , Rachel ? None whatever . 
And Aunt Ablewhite won't exert herself ? No , poor dear . 
Don't blame her , Drusilla . 
I think she is the only really happy woman I have ever met with . 
There are degrees in happiness , darling . 
We must have a little talk , some day , on that subject . 
In the meantime I will undertake to meet the difficulty about the servants . 
Your aunt will write a letter to the people of the house She will sign a letter , if I write it for her , which comes to the same thing . 
I shall get the letter , and I will go to Brighton to morrow . 
How extremely kind of you ! We will join you as soon as you are ready for us . 
And you will stay , I hope , as my guest . 
Brighton is so lively you are sure to enjoy it . 
In those words the invitation was given , and the glorious prospect of interference was opened before me . 
It was then the middle of the week . 
By Saturday afternoon the house was ready for them . 
One of them a clerical friend kindly helped me to take sittings for our little party in the church in which he himself ministered . 
I borrowed half a dozen works , all carefully chosen with a view to Rachel . 
When these had been judiciously distributed in the various rooms she would be likely to occupy , I considered that my preparations were complete . 
The giddy throng passed and repassed before my eyes . 
Alas ! how many of them felt my exquisite sense of duty done ? An awful question . 
Let us not pursue it . 
Between six and seven the travellers arrived . 
, but by the lawyer , Mr. Bruff . 
How do you do , Miss Clack ? he said . 
I mean to stay this time . 
There was something in the way which kept him in town . 
Mr. Bruff volunteered to take his place , and make a holiday of it till Monday morning . 
By the by , Mr. Bruff , I'm ordered to take exercise , and I don't like it . 
That , added Aunt Ablewhite , pointing out of window to an invalid going by in a chair on wheels , drawn by a man , is my idea of exercise . 
If it's air you want , you get it in your chair . 
And if it's fatigue you want , I am sure it's fatigue enough to look at the man . 
Rachel stood silent , at a window by herself , with her eyes fixed on the sea . 
Tired , love ? I inquired . 
No. Only a little out of spirits , she answered . 
I have often seen the sea , on our Yorkshire coast , with that light on it . 
And I was thinking , Drusilla , of the days that can never come again . 
Mr. Bruff remained to dinner , and stayed through the evening . 
The more I saw of him , the more certain I felt that he had some private end to serve in coming to Brighton . 
He maintained the same appearance of ease , and talked the same godless gossip , hour after hour , until it was time to take leave . 
As he shook hands with Rachel , I caught his hard and cunning eyes resting on her for a moment with a peculiar interest and attention . 
She was plainly concerned in the object that he had in view . 
He said nothing out of the common to her or to anyone on leaving . 
He invited himself to luncheon the next day , and then he went away to his hotel . 
It was impossible the next morning to get my Aunt Ablewhite out of her dressing gown in time for church . 
announced that she meant to remain in bed for the day . 
Rachel and I went alone together to church . 
A magnificent sermon was preached by my gifted friend on the heathen indifference of the world to the sinfulness of little sins . 
thundered through the sacred edifice . 
I said to Rachel , when we came out , Has it found its way to your heart , dear ? And she answered , No it has only made my head ache . 
This might have been discouraging to some people but , once embarked on a career of manifest usefulness , nothing discourages Me . 
We found Aunt Ablewhite and Mr. Bruff at luncheon . 
There is only one remedy for a headache , said this horrible old man . 
A walk , Miss Rachel , is the thing to cure you . 
I am entirely at your service , if you will honour me by accepting my arm . 
A walk is the very thing I was longing for . 
It's past two , I gently suggested . 
And the afternoon service , Rachel , begins at three . 
How can you expect me to go to church again , she asked , petulantly , with such a headache as mine ? Mr. Bruff officiously opened the door for her . 
In another minute more they were both out of the house . 
I don't know when I have felt the solemn duty of interfering so strongly as I felt it at that moment . 
But what was to be done ? Nothing was to be done but to interfere at the first opportunity , later in the day . 
On my return from the afternoon service I found that they had just got back . 
One look at them told me that the lawyer had said what he wanted to say . 
I had never before seen Rachel so silent and so thoughtful . 
I had never before seen Mr. Bruff pay her such devoted attention , and look at her with such marked respect . 
an engagement to dinner that day and he took an early leave of us all intending to go back to London by the first train the next morning . 
Are you sure of your own resolution ? he said to Rachel at the door . 
Quite sure , she answered and so they parted . 
The moment his back was turned , Rachel withdrew to her own room . 
She never appeared at dinner . 
was sent down stairs to announce that her headache had returned . 
I ran up to her and made all sorts of sisterly offers through the door . 
It was locked , and she kept it locked . 
Plenty of obstructive material to work on here ! I felt greatly cheered and stimulated by her locking the door . 
When her cup of tea went up to her the next morning , I followed it in . 
I sat by her bedside and said a few earnest words . 
She listened with languid civility . 
I noticed my serious friend's precious publications huddled together on a table in a corner . 
Had she chanced to look into them ? I asked . 
Yes and they had not interested her . 
Would she allow me to read a few passages of the deepest interest , which had probably escaped her eye ? No , not now she had other things to think of . 
She gave these answers , with her attention apparently absorbed in folding and refolding the frilling on her nightgown . 
It was plainly necessary to rouse her by some reference to those worldly interests which she still had at heart . 
Her fingers dropped from the frilling of her nightgown , and her fierce black eyes flashed at me . 
Quite the contrary ! she said . 
It was news I was interested in hearing and I am deeply indebted to Mr. Bruff for telling me of it . 
Yes ? I said , in a tone of gentle interest . 
Her fingers went back to the frilling , and she turned her head sullenly away from me . 
I had been met in this manner , in the course of plying the good work , hundreds of times . 
She merely stimulated me to try again . 
In my dauntless zeal for her welfare , I ran the great risk , and openly alluded to her marriage engagement . 
News you were interested in hearing ? I repeated . 
I suppose , my dear Rachel , that must be news of Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite ? She started up in the bed , and turned deadly pale . 
It was evidently on the tip of her tongue to retort on me with the unbridled insolence of former times . 
She checked herself laid her head back on the pillow considered a minute and then answered in these remarkable words I SHALL NEVER MARRY MR . 
It was my turn to start at that . 
What can you possibly mean ? I exclaimed . 
The marriage is considered by the whole family as a settled thing ! Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite is expected here to day , she said doggedly . 
Wait till he comes and you will see . 
But my dear Rachel She rang the bell at the head of her bed . 
The person with the cap ribbons appeared . 
Let me give her her due . 
In the state of my feelings at that moment , I do sincerely believe that she had hit on the only possible way of forcing me to leave the room . 
By the mere worldly mind my position towards Rachel might have been viewed as presenting difficulties of no ordinary kind . 
I had reckoned on leading her to higher things by means of a little earnest exhortation on the subject of her marriage . 
And now , if she was to be believed , no such event as her marriage was to take place at all . 
takes broader views than these . 
And what would be the effect on Rachel when the stormy interview was over ? A salutary moral depression would be the effect . 
Her pride would be exhausted , her stubbornness would be exhausted , by the resolute resistance which it was in her character to make under the circumstances . 
She would turn for sympathy to the nearest person who had sympathy to offer . 
And I was that nearest person brimful of comfort , charged to overflowing with seasonable and reviving words . 
Never had the evangelising prospect looked brighter , to my eyes , than it looked now . 
She came down to breakfast , but she ate nothing , and hardly uttered a word . 
After breakfast she wandered listlessly from room to room then suddenly roused herself , and opened the piano . 
The music she selected to play was of the most scandalously profane sort , associated with performances on the stage which it curdles one's blood to think of . 
It would have been premature to interfere with her at such a time as this . 
I privately ascertained the hour at which Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite was expected , and then I escaped the music by leaving the house . 
Being out alone , I took the opportunity of calling upon my two resident friends . 
It was an indescribable luxury to find myself indulging in earnest conversation with serious persons . 
Infinitely encouraged and refreshed , I turned my steps back again to the house , in excellent time to await the arrival of our expected visitor . 
He advanced to meet me with the utmost eagerness . 
Not the slightest embarrassment encumbered his explanation , though this was his first meeting with me after the scene in Montagu Square . 
He was not aware , it is true , of my having been a witness of that scene . 
And yet there he was before me , in full possession of his charming voice and his irresistible smile ! Have you seen Rachel yet ? I asked . 
He sighed gently , and took me by the hand . 
I should certainly have snatched my hand away , if the manner in which he gave his answer had not paralysed me with astonishment . 
I have seen Rachel , he said with perfect tranquillity . 
You are aware , dear friend , that she was engaged to me ? Well , she has taken a sudden resolution to break the engagement . 
Reflection has convinced her that she will best consult her welfare and mine by retracting a rash promise , and leaving me free to make some happier choice elsewhere . 
That is the only reason she will give , and the only answer she will make to every question that I can ask of her . 
What have you done on your side ? I inquired . 
Yes , he said with the most unruffled composure , I have submitted . 
His conduct , under the circumstances , was so utterly inconceivable , that I stood bewildered with my hand in his . 
It is a piece of rudeness to stare at anybody , and it is an act of indelicacy to stare at a gentleman . 
I committed both those improprieties . 
And I said , as if in a dream , What does it mean ? Permit me to tell you , he replied . 
And suppose we sit down ? He led me to a chair . 
I have an indistinct remembrance that he was very affectionate . 
I don't think he put his arm round my waist to support me but I am not sure . 
I was quite helpless , and his ways with ladies were very endearing . 
At any rate , we sat down . 
I can answer for that , if I can answer for nothing more . 
CHAPTER VIII I have lost a beautiful girl , an excellent social position , and a handsome income , Mr. Godfrey began and I have submitted to it without a struggle . 
What can be the motive for such extraordinary conduct as that ? My precious friend , there is no motive . 
No motive ? I repeated . 
Let me appeal , my dear Miss Clack , to your experience of children , he went on . 
A child pursues a certain course of conduct . 
You are greatly struck by it , and you attempt to get at the motive . 
The dear little thing is incapable of telling you its motive . 
You might as well ask the grass why it grows , or the birds why they sing . 
Well ! in this matter , I am like the dear little thing like the grass like the birds . 
I don't know why I made a proposal of marriage to Miss Verinder . 
I don't know why I have shamefully neglected my dear Ladies . 
I don't know why I have apostatised from the Mothers' Small Clothes . 
You say to the child , Why have you been naughty ? And the little angel puts its finger into its mouth , and doesn't know . 
My case exactly , Miss Clack ! I couldn't confess it to anybody else . 
I feel impelled to confess it to YOU ! I began to recover myself . 
A mental problem was involved here . 
I am deeply interested in mental problems and I am not , it is thought , without some skill in solving them . 
Best of friends , exert your intellect , and help me , he proceeded . 
that she loves another man , and that her only idea in marrying me is to try and put that other man out of her head . 
What a horrid union is this ! Oh , dear me , what a horrid union is this ! Such are my reflections , Miss Clack , on my way to Brighton . 
I approach Rachel with the feeling of a criminal who is going to receive his sentence . 
a most overpowering sense of relief . 
A month ago I was pressing her rapturously to my bosom . 
An hour ago , the happiness of knowing that I shall never press her again , intoxicates me like strong liquor . 
The thing seems impossible the thing can't be . 
And yet there are the facts , as I had the honour of stating them when we first sat down together in these two chairs . 
I have lost a beautiful girl , an excellent social position , and a handsome income and I have submitted to it without a struggle . 
Can you account for it , dear friend ? It's quite beyond ME . 
His magnificent head sank on his breast , and he gave up his own mental problem in despair . 
was now quite plain to me . 
It is no uncommon event , in the experience of us all , to see the possessors of exalted ability occasionally humbled to the level of the most poorly gifted people about them . 
It was now to my mind easy to discern one of these salutary humiliations in the deplorable proceedings on dear Mr. Godfrey's part , of which I had been the unseen witness . 
I put this view before him in a few simple and sisterly words . 
His joy was beautiful to see . 
He compared himself , as I went on , to a lost man emerging from the darkness into the light . 
When I answered for a loving reception of him at the Mothers' Small Clothes , the grateful heart of our Christian Hero overflowed . 
He pressed my hands alternately to his lips . 
Overwhelmed by the exquisite triumph of having got him back among us , I let him do what he liked with my hands . 
I felt my head , in an ecstasy of spiritual self forgetfulness , sinking on his shoulder . 
In a moment more I should certainly have swooned away in his arms , but for an interruption from the outer world , which brought me to myself again . 
A horrid rattling of knives and forks sounded outside the door , and the footman came in to lay the table for luncheon . 
Mr. Godfrey started up , and looked at the clock on the mantelpiece . 
How time flies with YOU ! he exclaimed . 
I shall barely catch the train . 
I ventured on asking why he was in such a hurry to get back to town . 
His answer reminded me of family difficulties that were still to be reconciled , and of family disagreements that were yet to come . 
I have heard from my father , he said . 
Business obliges him to leave Frizinghall for London to day , and he proposes coming on here , either this evening or to morrow . 
I must tell him what has happened between Rachel and me . 
His heart is set on our marriage there will be great difficulty , I fear , in reconciling him to the breaking off of the engagement . 
I must stop him , for all our sakes , from coming here till he IS reconciled . 
Best and dearest of friends , we shall meet again ! With those words he hurried out . 
In equal haste on my side , I ran upstairs to compose myself in my own room before meeting Aunt Ablewhite and Rachel at the luncheon table . 
with a venerable committee woman at the Mothers' Small Clothes , abundantly blessed with the goods of this world , and a beloved and intimate friend of my own . 
I only notice these odious slanders for the sake of declaring that they never had a moment's influence on my mind . 
In obedience to my instructions , I have exhibited the fluctuations in my opinion of our Christian Hero , exactly as I find them recorded in my diary . 
In justice to myself , let me here add that , once reinstated in his place in my estimation , my gifted friend never lost that place again . 
I write with the tears in my eyes , burning to say more . 
But no I am cruelly limited to my actual experience of persons and things . 
forced me into foreign exile , and left me with nothing but a loving remembrance of Mr. Godfrey which the slander of the world has assailed , and assailed in vain . 
Let me dry my eyes , and return to my narrative . 
I went downstairs to luncheon , naturally anxious to see how Rachel was affected by her release from her marriage engagement . 
Who was the man ? I had my suspicions but it was needless to waste time in idle speculation . 
When I had converted her , she would , as a matter of course , have no concealments from Me . 
I should hear all about the man I should hear all about the Moonstone . 
Aunt Ablewhite took her exercise in the afternoon in an invalid chair . 
I wish I could drag the chair , she broke out , recklessly . 
I wish I could fatigue myself till I was ready to drop . 
She was in the same humour in the evening . 
Upon my proposing to read them , she went to the piano . 
Old Mr. Ablewhite never made his appearance that night . 
that we should see him the next day . 
With his interference in the matter , the storm on which I had counted would certainly come , and the salutary exhaustion of Rachel's resisting powers would as certainly follow . 
of being a remarkably good natured man . 
According to my observation of him , he deserves his reputation as long as he has his own way , and not a moment longer . 
The next day , exactly as I had foreseen , Aunt Ablewhite was as near to being astonished as her nature would permit , by the sudden appearance of her husband . 
He had barely been a minute in the house , before he was followed , to MY astonishment this time , by an unexpected complication in the shape of Mr. Bruff . 
I never remember feeling the presence of the lawyer to be more unwelcome than I felt it at that moment . 
When I left your office yesterday , I didn't expect to have the honour of seeing you at Brighton to day . 
I turned over our conversation in my mind , after you had gone , replied Mr. Bruff . 
And it occurred to me that I might perhaps be of some use on this occasion . 
I was just in time to catch the train , and I had no opportunity of discovering the carriage in which you were travelling . 
Having given that explanation , he seated himself by Rachel . 
I retired modestly to a corner with Miss Jane Ann Stamper on my lap , in case of emergency . 
My aunt sat at the window placidly fanning herself as usual . 
Rachel , my dear , he said , I have heard some very extraordinary news from Godfrey . 
And I am here to inquire about it . 
You have a sitting room of your own in this house . 
Will you honour me by showing me the way to it ? Rachel never moved . 
Whether she was determined to bring matters to a crisis , or whether she was prompted by some private sign from Mr. Bruff , is more than I can tell . 
She declined doing old Mr. Ablewhite the honour of conducting him into her sitting room . 
of my mother's trusted old friend . 
Just as you please , my dear , said the amiable Mr. Ablewhite . 
The rest of them looked at his face as if they expected it , after seventy years of worldly training , to speak the truth . 
I looked at the top of his bald head having noticed on other occasions that the temper which was really in him had a habit of registering itself THERE . 
Some weeks ago , pursued the old gentleman , my son informed me that Miss Verinder had done him the honour to engage herself to marry him . 
Is it possible , Rachel , that he can have misinterpreted or presumed upon what you really said to him ? Certainly not , she replied . 
I did engage myself to marry him . 
Very frankly answered ! said Mr. Ablewhite . 
And most satisfactory , my dear , so far . 
In respect to what happened some weeks since , Godfrey has made no mistake . 
The error is evidently in what he told me yesterday . 
I begin to see it now . 
You and he have had a lovers' quarrel and my foolish son has interpreted it seriously . 
Ah ! I should have known better than that at his age . 
The fallen nature in Rachel the mother Eve , so to speak began to chafe at this . 
Pray let us understand each other , Mr. Ablewhite , she said . 
Nothing in the least like a quarrel took place yesterday between your son and me . 
If he told you that I proposed breaking off our marriage engagement , and that he agreed on his side he told you the truth . 
The self registering thermometer at the top of Mr. Ablewhite's bald head began to indicate a rise of temper . 
Once for all , it is a settled thing between your son and myself that we remain , for the rest of our lives , cousins and nothing more . 
Is that plain enough ? The tone in which she said those words made it impossible , even for old Mr. Ablewhite , to mistake her any longer . 
His thermometer went up another degree , and his voice when he next spoke , ceased to be the voice which is appropriate to a notoriously good natured man . 
I am to understand , then , he said , that your marriage engagement is broken off ? You are to understand that , Mr. Ablewhite , if you please . 
And it met , as I have told you , with your son's consent and approval . 
The thermometer went up to the top of the register . 
I mean , the pink changed suddenly to scarlet . 
My son is a mean spirited hound ! cried this furious old worldling . 
You are not bound to answer that question , he said to Rachel . 
Old Mr. Ablewhite fastened on him instantly . 
Don't forget , sir , he said , that you are a self invited guest here . 
Your interference would have come with a better grace if you had waited until it was asked for . 
Mr. Bruff took no notice . 
The smooth varnish on HIS wicked old face never cracked . 
was simply awful to see . 
Your son put the same question to me which you have just asked , she said . 
I had only one answer for him , and I have only one answer for you . 
What has my son done ? persisted Mr. Ablewhite . 
I have a right to know that . 
What has my son done ? She persisted just as obstinately on her side . 
You have had the only explanation which I think it necessary to give to you , or to him , she answered . 
In plain English , it's your sovereign will and pleasure , Miss Verinder , to jilt my son ? Rachel was silent for a moment . 
Sitting close behind her , I heard her sigh . 
Mr. Bruff took her hand , and gave it a little squeeze . 
She recovered herself , and answered Mr. Ablewhite as boldly as ever . 
I have exposed myself to worse misconstruction than that , she said . 
And I have borne it patiently . 
The time has gone by , when you could mortify me by calling me a jilt . 
She spoke with a bitterness of tone which satisfied me that the scandal of the Moonstone had been in some way recalled to her mind . 
Mr. Ablewhite got upon his feet , and pushed away his chair so violently that it toppled over and fell on the floor . 
I have something more to say on my side , he announced , bringing down the flat of his hand on the table with a bang . 
I have to say that if my son doesn't feel this insult , I do ! Rachel started , and looked at him in sudden surprise . 
What do you mean ? Insult ! reiterated Mr. Ablewhite . 
I know your motive , Miss Verinder , for breaking your promise to my son ! I know it as certainly as if you had confessed it in so many words . 
Your cursed family pride is insulting Godfrey , as it insulted ME when I married your aunt . 
Her family her beggarly family turned their backs on her for marrying an honest man , who had made his own place and won his own fortune . 
I wasn't descended from a set of cut throat scoundrels who lived by robbery and murder . 
I. couldn't point to the time when the Ablewhites hadn't a shirt to their backs , and couldn't sign their own names . 
Ha ! ha ! I wasn't good enough for the Herncastles , when I married . 
And now , it comes to the pinch , my son isn't good enough for YOU . 
I suspected it , all along . 
You have got the Herncastle blood in you , my young lady ! I suspected it all along . 
A very unworthy suspicion , remarked Mr. Bruff . 
I am astonished that you have the courage to acknowledge it . 
Before Mr. Ablewhite could find words to answer in , Rachel spoke in a tone of the most exasperating contempt . 
Surely , she said to the lawyer , this is beneath notice . 
If he can think in THAT way , let us leave him to think as he pleases . 
From scarlet , Mr. Ablewhite was now becoming purple . 
He gasped for breath he looked backwards and forwards from Rachel to Mr. Bruff in such a frenzy of rage with both of them that he didn't know which to attack first . 
His wife , who had sat impenetrably fanning herself up to this time , began to be alarmed , and attempted , quite uselessly , to quiet him . 
At the point at which matters had now arrived , I rose superior to all considerations of mere expediency . 
If I had contemplated interposing any remonstrance of my own humble devising , I might possibly have still hesitated . 
I rose in my modest corner , and I opened my precious book . 
My sisterly form of address checked him . 
He stared at me in heathen astonishment . 
He began to recover himself he was on the point of breaking out he WOULD have broken out , with anybody else . 
But my voice possesses a high note or so , in emergencies . 
In this emergency , I felt imperatively called upon to have the highest voice of the two . 
I held up my precious book before him I rapped the open page impressively with my forefinger . 
Not my words ! I exclaimed , in a burst of fervent interruption . 
He tore it in two , and threw it back at me across the table . 
The rest of them rose in alarm , not knowing what might happen next . 
I instantly sat down again in my corner . 
There had once been an occasion , under somewhat similar circumstances , when Miss Jane Ann Stamper had been taken by the two shoulders and turned out of a room . 
I waited , inspired by HER spirit , for a repetition of HER martyrdom . 
But no it was not to be . 
His wife was the next person whom he addressed . 
Miss Clack is here , she said , as my guest . 
Those words had a singular effect on Mr. Ablewhite . 
They suddenly changed him from a man in a state of red hot anger to a man in a state of icy cold contempt . 
It was plain to everybody that Rachel had said something short and plain as her answer had been which gave him the upper hand of her at last . 
Miss Clack is here as YOUR guest in MY house ? It was Rachel's turn to lose her temper at that . 
Her colour rose , and her eyes brightened fiercely . 
She turned to the lawyer , and , pointing to Mr. Ablewhite , asked haughtily , What does he mean ? Mr. Bruff interfered for the third time . 
You appear to forget , he said , addressing Mr. Ablewhite , that you took this house as Miss Verinder's guardian , for Miss Verinder's use . 
Not quite so fast , interposed Mr. Ablewhite . 
Understand , if you please , that I refuse to accept the position which is offered to me by Lady Verinder's will . 
In your legal phrase , I decline to act . 
This house has necessarily been hired in my name . 
I take the entire responsibility of it on my shoulders . 
I can keep it , or let it , just as I please . 
I have no wish to hurry Miss Verinder . 
On the contrary , I beg her to remove her guest and her luggage , at her own entire convenience . 
He made a low bow , and walked out of the room . 
That was Mr. Ablewhite's revenge on Rachel , for refusing to marry his son ! The instant the door closed , Aunt Ablewhite exhibited a phenomenon which silenced us all . 
I hope I shall never see you or your tracts again . 
She went back to Rachel and kissed her . 
I beg your pardon , my dear , she said , in my husband's name . 
If I may be permitted to answer for Miss Verinder , said Mr. Bruff , might I ask you , Mrs. Ablewhite , to send Penelope down with her mistress's bonnet and shawl . 
Leave us ten minutes together , he added , in a lower tone , and you may rely on my setting matters right , to your satisfaction as well as to Rachel's . 
The trust of the family in this man was something wonderful to see . 
Without a word more , on her side , Aunt Ablewhite left the room . 
Ah ! said Mr. Bruff , looking after her . 
The Herncastle blood has its drawbacks , I admit . 
But there IS something in good breeding after all ! Having made that purely worldly remark , he looked hard at my corner , as if he expected me to go . 
My interest in Rachel an infinitely higher interest than his riveted me to my chair . 
Mr. Bruff gave it up , exactly as he had given it up at Aunt Verinder's , in Montagu Square . 
He led Rachel to a chair by the window , and spoke to her there . 
My dear young lady , he said , Mr. Ablewhite's conduct has naturally shocked you , and taken you by surprise . 
If it was worth while to contest the question with such a man , we might soon show him that he is not to have things all his own way . 
But it isn't worth while . 
You were quite right in what you said just now he is beneath our notice . 
He stopped , and looked round at my corner . 
I sat there quite immovable , with my tracts at my elbow and with Miss Jane Ann Stamper on my lap . 
She named her brother in law your guardian because she believed in him , and because she thought it would please her sister . 
One of those events has happened to day and I find myself in a position to end all these dry business details , I hope agreeably , with a message from my wife . 
Mr. Bruff had done exactly what I had dreaded he would do , when he asked Mrs. Ablewhite for Rachel's bonnet and shawl . 
Before I could interpose a word , Rachel had accepted his invitation in the warmest terms . 
I cast the miserable trammels of worldly discretion to the winds , and spoke with the fervour that filled me , in the words that came first . 
Stop ! I said stop ! I must be heard . 
Mr. Bruff ! you are not related to her , and I am . 
I invite her I summon the executors to appoint me guardian . 
Rachel , dearest Rachel , I offer you my modest home come to London by the next train , love , and share it with me ! Mr. Bruff said nothing . 
Rachel looked at me with a cruel astonishment which she made no effort to conceal . 
You are very kind , Drusilla , she said . 
I shall hope to visit you whenever I happen to be in London . 
But I have accepted Mr. Bruff's invitation , and I think it will be best , for the present , if I remain under Mr. Bruff's care . 
Oh , don't say so ! I pleaded . 
I can't part with you , Rachel I can't part with you ! I tried to fold her in my arms . 
My fervour did not communicate itself it only alarmed her . 
Surely , she said , this is a very unnecessary display of agitation ? I don't understand it . 
No more do I , said Mr. Bruff . 
Their hardness their hideous , worldly hardness revolted me . 
Oh , Rachel ! Rachel ! I burst out . 
I don't understand your reference to my mother , she said . 
You had better not pursue the subject , my dear , he said . 
And Miss Clack had better not explain herself . 
If I had been a stock or a stone , such an interference as this must have roused me into testifying to the truth . 
Rachel started back from me I blush to write with a scream of horror . 
Come away ! she said to Mr. Bruff . 
At the same moment , her maid entered with her bonnet and shawl . 
She huddled them on anyhow . 
Pack my things , she said , and bring them to Mr. Bruff's . 
I attempted to approach her I was shocked and grieved , but , it is needless to say , not offended . 
I bore the insult with my customary fortitude . 
I remember it now with my customary superiority to all feeling of offence . 
Mr. Bruff had his parting word of mockery for me , before he too hurried out , in his turn . 
You had better not have explained yourself , Miss Clack , he said , and bowed , and left the room . 
The person with the cap ribbons followed . 
It's easy to see who has set them all by the ears together , she said . 
I'm only a poor servant but I declare I'm ashamed of you ! She too went out , and banged the door after her . 
I was left alone in the room . 
Reviled by them all , deserted by them all , I was left alone in the room . 
From that day forth , I never saw Rachel Verinder again . 
She had my forgiveness at the time when she insulted me . 
She has had my prayerful good wishes ever since . 
In the first place , I am in a position to throw the necessary light on certain points of interest which have thus far been left in the dark . 
Miss Verinder had her own private reason for breaking her marriage engagement and I was at the bottom of it . 
Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite had his own private reason for withdrawing all claim to the hand of his charming cousin and I discovered what it was . 
And there you have the statement of my claims to fill the position which I occupy in these pages . 
The true story of the broken marriage engagement comes first in point of time , and must therefore take the first place in the present narrative . 
Sir John had his share perhaps rather a large share of the more harmless and amiable of the weaknesses incidental to humanity . 
Lady Verinder exerted her influence to rouse him to a sense of duty in this matter and I exerted my influence . 
He admitted the justice of our views but he went no further than that , until he found himself afflicted with the illness which ultimately brought him to his grave . 
Then , I was sent for at last , to take my client's instructions on the subject of his will . 
They proved to be the simplest instructions I had ever received in the whole of my professional career . 
Sir John was dozing , when I entered the room . 
He roused himself at the sight of me . 
How do you do , Mr. Bruff ? he said . 
I sha'n't be very long about this . 
And then I'll go to sleep again . 
He looked on with great interest while I collected pens , ink , and paper . 
Are you ready ? he asked . 
I bowed and took a dip of ink , and waited for my instructions . 
I leave everything to my wife , said Sir John . 
He turned round on his pillow , and composed himself to sleep again . 
I was obliged to disturb him . 
Only , I put it shorter . 
Why can't you put it shorter , and let me go to sleep again ? Everything to my wife . 
His property was entirely at his own disposal , and was of two kinds . 
, and property in money . 
In the majority of cases , I am afraid I should have felt it my duty to my client to ask him to reconsider his Will . 
In ten minutes , Sir John's Will was drawn , and executed , and Sir John himself , good man , was finishing his interrupted nap . 
Lady Verinder amply justified the confidence which her husband had placed in her . 
In the first days of her widowhood , she sent for me , and made her Will . 
The view she took of her position was so thoroughly sound and sensible , that I was relieved of all necessity for advising her . 
My responsibility began and ended with shaping her instructions into the proper legal form . 
Before Sir John had been a fortnight in his grave , the future of his daughter had been most wisely and most affectionately provided for . 
The Will remained in its fireproof box at my office , through more years than I Like to reckon up . 
It was not till the summer of eighteen hundred and forty eight that I found occasion to look at it again under very melancholy circumstances . 
At the date I have mentioned , the doctors pronounced the sentence on poor Lady Verinder , which was literally a sentence of death . 
I was the first person whom she informed of her situation and I found her anxious to go over her Will again with me . 
It was impossible to improve the provisions relating to her daughter . 
Having done this at once , for fear of accident , I obtained her ladyship's permission to embody her recent instructions in a second Will . 
The execution of this second Will has been described by Miss Clack , who was so obliging as to witness it . 
So far as regarded Rachel Verinder's pecuniary interests , it was , word for word , the exact counterpart of the first Will . 
The only changes introduced related to the appointment of a guardian , and to certain provisions concerning that appointment , which were made under my advice . 
On Lady Verinder's death , the Will was placed in the hands of my proctor to be proved in the usual way . 
In about three weeks from that time as well as I can remember the first warning reached me of something unusual going on under the surface . 
I happened to be looking in at my friend the proctor's office , and I observed that he received me with an appearance of greater interest than usual . 
I have some news for you , he said . 
Did you hear who asked for the Will ? I asked . 
Yes the clerk had no hesitation in telling ME . 
Mr. Smalley , of the firm of Skipp and Smalley , asked for it . 
The Will has not been copied yet into the great Folio Registers . 
So there was no alternative but to depart from the usual course , and to let him see the original document . 
He looked it over carefully , and made a note in his pocket book . 
Have you any idea of what he wanted with it ? I shook my head . 
I shall find out , I answered , before I am a day older . 
With that I went back at once to my own office . 
If any other firm of solicitors had been concerned in this unaccountable examination of my deceased client's Will , I might have found some difficulty in making the necessary discovery . 
But I had a hold over Skipp and Smalley which made my course in this matter a comparatively easy one . 
My professional patronage was , in this way , of some importance to the firm . 
I intended , if necessary , to remind them of that patronage , on the present occasion . 
Skipp and Smalley had found it necessary to examine Lady Verinder's will . 
This message brought Mr. Smalley back to my office in company with his brother . 
He acknowledged that he had acted under instructions received from a client . 
And then he put it to me , whether it would not be a breach of professional confidence on his part to say more . 
We had a smart discussion upon that . 
He was right , no doubt and I was wrong . 
The truth is , I was angry and suspicious and I insisted on knowing more . 
Worse still , I declined to consider any additional information offered me , as a secret placed in my keeping I claimed perfect freedom to use my own discretion . 
Worse even than that , I took an unwarrantable advantage of my position . 
Choose , sir , I said to Mr. Smalley , between the risk of losing your client's business and the risk of losing Mine . 
Quite indefensible , I admit an act of tyranny , and nothing less . 
Like other tyrants , I carried my point . 
Mr. Smalley chose his alternative , without a moment's hesitation . 
He smiled resignedly , and gave up the name of his client Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite . 
That was enough for me I wanted to know no more . 
Let me state , then , in the fewest possible words , that Rachel Verinder had nothing but a life interest in the property . 
, could raise sixpence , either on the property in land , or on the property in money . 
They would have the houses in London and in Yorkshire to live in , and they would have the handsome income and that was all . 
When I came to think over what I had discovered , I was sorely perplexed what to do next . 
of Miss Verinder's proposed marriage . 
I had the sincerest admiration and affection for her and I had been inexpressibly grieved when I heard that she was about to throw herself away on Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite . 
Granted , my dear sir . 
with your own sister ? The first consideration which now naturally occurred to me was this . 
Would Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite hold to his engagement , after what his lawyer had discovered for him ? It depended entirely on his pecuniary position , of which I knew nothing . 
If that position was not a desperate one , it would be well worth his while to marry Miss Verinder for her income alone . 
In the former event , if I remained silent , I should be conniving at a marriage which would make her miserable for life . 
My doubts ended in my calling at the hotel in London , at which I knew Mrs. Ablewhite and Miss Verinder to be staying . 
They informed me that they were going to Brighton the next day , and that an unexpected obstacle prevented Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite from accompanying them . 
I at once proposed to take his place . 
While I was only thinking of Rachel Verinder , it was possible to hesitate . 
When I actually saw her , my mind was made up directly , come what might of it , to tell her the truth . 
I found my opportunity , when I was out walking with her , on the day after my arrival . 
May I speak to you , I asked , about your marriage engagement ? Yes , she said , indifferently , if you have nothing more interesting to talk about . 
Strong language ! and suggestive of something below the surface , in the shape of a romance . 
to pursue the question into its side issues . 
Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite can hardly be of your way of thinking , I said . 
HIS heart must be set on the marriage at any rate ? He says so , and I suppose I ought to believe him . 
He would hardly marry me , after what I have owned to him , unless he was fond of me . 
Poor thing ! the bare idea of a man marrying her for his own selfish and mercenary ends had never entered her head . 
The task I had set myself began to look like a harder task than I had bargained for . 
It sounds strangely , I went on , in my old fashioned ears What sounds strangely ? she asked . 
To hear you speak of your future husband as if you were not quite sure of the sincerity of his attachment . 
She stopped , and taking her arm out of mine , looked me searchingly in the face . 
Mr. Bruff , she said , you have something to tell me about Godfrey Ablewhite . 
I knew her well enough to take her at her word . 
She put her arm again into mine , and walked on with me slowly . 
When I had done , she still kept silence . 
I made no attempt to disturb her . 
My experience of her disposition warned me , on this , as on former occasions , to give her time . 
Rachel Verinder's first instinct , under similar circumstances , was to shut herself up in her own mind , and to think it over by herself . 
This absolute self dependence is a great virtue in a man . 
In a woman it has a serious drawback of morally separating her from the mass of her sex , and so exposing her to misconstruction by the general opinion . 
I strongly suspect myself of thinking as the rest of the world think in this matter except in the case of Rachel Verinder . 
We had walked on , for nearly a mile I should say before Rachel roused herself . 
She suddenly looked up at me with a faint reflection of her smile of happier times the most irresistible smile I have ever seen on a woman's face . 
I owe much already to your kindness , she said . 
And I feel more deeply indebted to it now than ever . 
If you hear any rumours of my marriage when you get back to London contradict them at once , on my authority . 
Have you resolved to break your engagement ? I asked . 
Have you no one I mean a lady , of course whom you could consult ? No one , she answered . 
It distressed me , it did indeed distress me , to hear her say that . 
I have advised a prodigious number of clients , and have dealt with some exceedingly awkward difficulties , in my time . 
But this was the first occasion on which I had ever found myself advising a young lady how to obtain her release from a marriage engagement . 
The suggestion I offered amounted briefly to this . 
If he attempted to defend himself , or to deny the facts , she was , in that event , to refer him to ME . 
Miss Verinder listened attentively till I had done . 
She then thanked me very prettily for my advice , but informed me at the same time that it was impossible for her to follow it . 
May I ask , I said , what objection you see to following it ? She hesitated and then met me with a question on her side . 
Suppose you were asked to express your opinion of Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite's conduct ? she began . 
Yes ? What would you call it ? I should call it the conduct of a meanly deceitful man . 
Mr. Bruff ! I have believed in that man . 
I have promised to marry that man . 
If I say what you tell me to say to him l am owning that I have degraded myself to his face . 
After what has passed between us , I can't do that ! The shame of it would be nothing to HIM . 
But the shame of it would be unendurable to ME . 
Here was another of the marked peculiarities in her character disclosing itself to me without reserve . 
She only shook her head , and repeated her objection in other words . 
He has been intimate enough with me to ask me to be his wife . 
He has stood high enough in my estimation to obtain my consent . 
I shall say that I have thought it over , and that I am satisfied it will be best for both of us if we part . 
No more than that ? No more . 
Have you thought of what he may say , on his side ? He may say what he pleases . 
It was impossible not to admire her delicacy and her resolution , and it was equally impossible not to feel that she was putting herself in the wrong . 
I entreated her to consider her own position I reminded her that she would be exposing herself to the most odious misconstruction of her motives . 
You can't brave public opinion , I said , at the command of private feeling . 
I can , she answered . 
I have done it already . 
What do you mean ? You have forgotten the Moonstone , Mr. Bruff . 
Have I not braved public opinion , THERE , with my own private reasons for it ? Her answer silenced me for the moment . 
It set me trying to trace the explanation of her conduct , at the time of the loss of the Moonstone , out of the strange avowal which had just escaped her . 
I might perhaps have done it when I was younger . 
I certainly couldn't do it now . 
I tried a last remonstrance before we returned to the house . 
She was just as immovable as ever . 
My mind was in a strange conflict of feelings about her when I left her that day . 
She was obstinate she was wrong . 
She was interesting she was admirable she was deeply to be pitied . 
I made her promise to write to me the moment she had any news to send . 
And I went back to my business in London , with a mind exceedingly ill at ease . 
He needed a large sum of money and he needed it by a given time . 
Rachel's income , which would have helped him to anything else , would not help him here and Rachel had accordingly released herself , without encountering a moment's serious opposition on his part . 
He came , of course , to know whether I could give him any explanation of Miss Verinder's extraordinary conduct . 
It is needless to say that I was quite unable to afford him the information he wanted . 
The annoyance which I thus inflicted , following on the irritation produced by a recent interview with his son , threw Mr. Ablewhite off his guard . 
Both his looks and his language convinced me that Miss Verinder would find him a merciless man to deal with , when he joined the ladies at Brighton the next day . 
I had a restless night , considering what I ought to do next . 
have already been put tidily in their proper places , by that exemplary person , Miss Clack . 
I have only to add in completion of her narrative that Miss Verinder found the quiet and repose which she sadly needed , poor thing , in my house at Hampstead . 
She honoured us by making a long stay . 
of some importance , nevertheless , in respect of its bearing very remarkably on events which are still to come . 
I looked at the card . 
There was a foreign name written on it , which has escaped my memory . 
It was followed by a line written in English at the bottom of the card , which I remember perfectly well Recommended by Mr. Septimus Luker . 
The clerk , observing my bewilderment , favoured me with the result of his own observation of the stranger who was waiting downstairs . 
He is rather a remarkable looking man , sir . 
So dark in the complexion that we all set him down in the office for an Indian , or something of that sort . 
To the astonishment of my clerk , I at once decided on granting an interview to the gentleman below . 
can claim to have had such an intimate connexion with the romance of the Indian Diamond as mine has been . 
I was trusted with the secret of Colonel Herncastle's plan for escaping assassination . 
I received the Colonel's letters , periodically reporting himself a living man . 
I drew his Will , leaving the Moonstone to Miss Verinder . 
I persuaded his executor to act , on the chance that the jewel might prove to be a valuable acquisition to the family . 
And , lastly , I combated Mr. Franklin Blake's scruples , and induced him to be the means of transporting the Diamond to Lady Verinder's house . 
If anyone can claim a prescriptive right of interest in the Moonstone , and in everything connected with it , I think it is hardly to be denied that I am the man . 
The moment my mysterious client was shown in , I felt an inner conviction that I was in the presence of one of the three Indians probably of the chief . 
He was carefully dressed in European costume . 
But his swarthy complexion , his long lithe figure , and his grave and graceful politeness of manner were enough to betray his Oriental origin to any intelligent eyes that looked at him . 
I pointed to a chair , and begged to be informed of the nature of his business with me . 
I have come , sir , he said , to ask you to lend me some money . 
And I leave this as an assurance to you that my debt will be paid back . 
I pointed to his card . 
And you apply to me , I rejoined , at Mr. Luker's recommendation ? The Indian bowed . 
May I ask how it is that Mr. Luker himself did not advance the money that you require ? Mr. Luker informed me , sir , that he had no money to lend . 
And so he recommended you to come to me ? The Indian , in his turn , pointed to the card . 
It is written there , he said . 
At the same time , and barring that slight drawback , I am bound to testify that he was the perfect model of a client . 
He might not have respected my life . 
But he did what none of my own countrymen had ever done , in all my experience of them he respected my time . 
I am sorry , I said , that you should have had the trouble of coming to me . 
Mr. Luker is quite mistaken in sending you here . 
I am trusted , like other men in my profession , with money to lend . 
But I never lend it to strangers , and I never lend it on such a security as you have produced . 
Only one question at parting ! The average in my experience was fifty . 
in one year's time from the date at which it was first advanced to you . 
The Indian made me a last bow , the lowest of all and suddenly and softly walked out of the room . 
It was done in a moment , in a noiseless , supple , cat like way , which a little startled me , I own . 
As soon as I was composed enough to think , I arrived at one distinct conclusion in reference to the otherwise incomprehensible visitor who had favoured me with a call . 
His face , voice , and manner while I was in his company were under such perfect control that they set all scrutiny at defiance . 
But he had given me one chance of looking under the smooth outer surface of him , for all that . 
When I gave him that piece of information , he looked me straight in the face , while I was speaking , for the first time . 
The inference I drew from this was that he had a special purpose in asking me his last question , and a special interest in hearing my answer to it . 
He asked my pardon in terms of sickening servility , and assured me that he could explain matters to my satisfaction , if I would honour him by consenting to a personal interview . 
I made another unprofessional sacrifice to mere curiosity . 
I honoured him by making an appointment at my office , for the next day . 
that he must certainly be in the company of one of the three men , who had blindfolded him , gagged him , and robbed him of his banker's receipt . 
The result was that he became quite paralysed with terror , and that he firmly believed his last hour had come . 
On his side , the Indian preserved the character of a perfect stranger . 
He produced the little casket , and made exactly the same application which he had afterwards made to me . 
As the speediest way of getting rid of him , Mr. Luker had at once declared that he had no money . 
The Indian had thereupon asked to be informed of the best and safest person to apply to for the loan he wanted . 
Mr. Luker had answered that the best and safest person , in such cases , was usually a respectable solicitor . 
The perspiration was pouring off me like rain , sir , the wretched creature concluded . 
I didn't know what I was talking about . 
And I hope you'll look over it , Mr. Bruff , sir , in consideration of my having been really and truly frightened out of my wits . 
I excused the fellow graciously enough . 
It was the readiest way of releasing myself from the sight of him . 
Before he left me , I detained him to make one inquiry . 
What did it mean ? Mr. Luker's explanation gave me no assistance towards solving the problem . 
My own unaided ingenuity , consulted next , proved quite unequal to grapple with the difficulty . 
CHAPTER III The prominent personage among the guests at the dinner party I found to be Mr. Murthwaite . 
He had now announced his intention of returning to the scene of his exploits , and of penetrating into regions left still unexplored . 
This magnificent indifference to placing his safety in peril for the second time , revived the flagging interest of the worshippers in the hero . 
The law of chances was clearly against his escaping on this occasion . 
When the gentlemen were left by themselves in the dining room , I found myself sitting next to Mr. Murthwaite . 
In respect to this all absorbing national topic , I happen to be one of the most un English Englishmen living . 
As a general rule , political talk appears to me to be of all talk the most dreary and the most profitless . 
Glancing at Mr. Murthwaite , when the bottles had made their first round of the table , I found that he was apparently of my way of thinking . 
He was doing it very dexterously with all possible consideration for the feelings of his host but it is not the less certain that he was composing himself for a nap . 
I informed him of my professional connection with the Herncastle family , not forgetting the curious position which I had occupied towards the Colonel and his Diamond in the bygone time . 
, and concentrated his whole attention on plain Mr. Bruff , of Gray's Inn Square . 
Have you heard anything , lately , of the Indians ? he asked . 
I have every reason to believe , I answered , that one of them had an interview with me , in my office , yesterday . 
Mr. Murthwaite was not an easy man to astonish but that last answer of mine completely staggered him . 
I described what had happened to Mr. Luker , and what had happened to myself , exactly as I have described it here . 
It is clear that the Indian's parting inquiry had an object , I added . 
The great traveller became quite interested in sounding the immense vacuity of my dulness to its lowest depths . 
Let me ask you one question , he said . 
In what position does the conspiracy to seize the Moonstone now stand ? I can't say , I answered . 
The Indian plot is a mystery to me . 
The Indian plot , Mr. Bruff , can only be a mystery to you , because you have never seriously examined it . 
Very good , said Mr. Murthwaite . 
We will take the question of the ages of the three Indians first . 
Not forty , you think ? My idea too . 
We will say not forty . 
Now look back to the time when Colonel Herncastle came to England , and when you were concerned in the plan he adopted to preserve his life . 
I don't want you to count the years . 
who followed the Colonel to these shores . 
These present men of ours have succeeded to the men who were here before them . 
If they had only done that , the matter would not have been worth inquiring into . 
But they have done more . 
They have succeeded to the organisation which their predecessors established in this country . 
Don't start ! The organisation is a very trumpery affair , according to our ideas , I have no doubt . 
of their own religion , as happen to be employed in ministering to some of the multitudinous wants of this great city . 
Nothing very formidable , as you see ! But worth notice at starting , because we may find occasion to refer to this modest little Indian organisation as we go on . 
Having now cleared the ground , I am going to ask you a question and I expect your experience to answer it . 
What was the event which gave the Indians their first chance of seizing the Diamond ? I understood the allusion to my experience . 
The first chance they got , I replied , was clearly offered to them by Colonel Herncastle's death . 
They would be aware of his death , I suppose , as a matter of course ? As a matter of course . 
And his death , as you say , gave them their first chance . 
Up to that time the Moonstone was safe in the strong room of the bank . 
You drew the Colonel's Will leaving his jewel to his niece and the Will was proved in the usual way . 
They would provide themselves with a copy of the Will from Doctors' Commons , I said . 
One or other of those shady Englishmen to whom I have alluded , would get them the copy you have described . 
You will agree with me that the necessary information about persons in the position of Lady Verinder and Mr. Blake , would be perfectly easy information to obtain . 
The second way would be manifestly the safest way and there you have the explanation of the appearance of the Indians at Frizinghall , disguised as jugglers , and waiting their time . 
In London , it is needless to say , they had their organisation at their disposal to keep them informed of events . 
Two men would do it . 
One to follow anybody who went from Mr. Blake's house to the bank . 
And one to treat the lower men servants with beer , and to hear the news of the house . 
What actually followed upon that discovery , you remember , no doubt , quite as correctly as I do . 
he had lodged the Diamond in the bank at Frizinghall , before the Indians were so much as prepared to see him in the neighbourhood . 
All perfectly clear so far . 
Nor to mine either , said Mr. Murthwaite . 
The clairvoyance in this case is simply a development of the romantic side of the Indian character . 
Their boy is unquestionably a sensitive subject to the mesmeric influence and , under that influence , he has no doubt reflected what was already in the mind of the person mesmerising him . 
I have tested the theory of clairvoyance and I have never found the manifestations get beyond that point . 
I only notice this as offering a curious view of human character , which must be quite new to you . 
My object in following the Indian plot , step by step , is to trace results back , by rational means , to natural causes . 
It's the easiest difficulty to deal with of all , he said . 
Permit me to begin by admitting your statement of the case as a perfectly correct one . 
Their first mistake ? I repeated . 
Certainly ! The mistake of allowing themselves to be surprised , lurking about the terrace at night , by Gabriel Betteredge . 
Why , Mr. Murthwaite ? That's what I want to know ! Why ? Because no Indian , Mr. Bruff , ever runs an unnecessary risk . 
that the Moonstone was to pass absolutely into Miss Verinder's possession on her birthday . 
The first act in the conspiracy closes there . 
The first chance the Indians had of seizing the Diamond was a chance lost , on the day when they were committed to the prison at Frizinghall . 
When did the second chance offer itself ? The second chance offered itself as I am in a condition to prove while they were still in confinement . 
He took out his pocket book , and opened it at a particular leaf , before he went on . 
I was staying , he resumed , with some friends at Frizinghall , at the time . 
, the governor of the prison came to me with a letter . 
On opening it , they had found the contents to be written in a foreign language , which they rightly guessed at as Hindustani . 
Their object in coming to me was , of course , to have the letter translated to them . 
I took a copy in my pocket book of the original , and of my translation and there they are at your service . 
He handed me the open pocket book . 
The address on the letter was the first thing copied . 
It was all written in one paragraph , without any attempt at punctuation , thus To the three Indian men living with the lady called Macann at Frizinghall in Yorkshire . 
Brothers , turn your faces to the south , and come to me in the street of many noises , which leads down to the muddy river . 
My own eyes have seen it . 
There the letter ended , without either date or signature . 
I handed it back to Mr. Murthwaite , and owned that this curious specimen of Hindoo correspondence rather puzzled me . 
I can explain the first sentence to you , he said and the conduct of the Indians themselves will explain the rest . 
Here , then , to begin with , is something which looks suspiciously like an indirect reference to the Moonstone . 
Now , let us see what the Indians did , after the prison authorities had allowed them to receive their letter . 
On the very day when they were set free they went at once to the railway station , and took their places in the first train that started for London . 
We all thought it a pity at Frizinghall that their proceedings were not privately watched . 
The Indians were free to go to London , and to London they went . 
What was the next news we heard of them , Mr. Bruff ? They were annoying Mr. Luker , I answered , by loitering about the house at Lambeth . 
Did you read the report of Mr. Luker's application to the magistrate ? Yes . 
was too plain to need being pointed out . 
I had never doubted that the Moonstone had found its way into Mr. Luker's hands , at the time Mr. Murthwaite alluded to . 
had now received its answer , like the rest . 
I paid him the compliment of telling him this , and found my little concession very graciously received . 
You shall give me a piece of information in your turn before we go on , he said . 
Somebody must have taken the Moonstone from Yorkshire to London . 
And somebody must have raised money on it , or it would never have been in Mr. Luker's possession . 
Has there been any discovery made of who that person was ? None that I know of . 
There was a story about Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite . 
I am told he is an eminent philanthropist which is decidedly against him , to begin with . 
I heartily agreed in this with Mr. Murthwaite . 
that Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite had been cleared of all suspicion , on evidence which I could answer for as entirely beyond dispute . 
Very well , said Mr. Murthwaite , quietly , let us leave it to time to clear the matter up . 
In the meanwhile , Mr. Bruff , we must get back again to the Indians , on your account . 
Their journey to London simply ended in their becoming the victims of another defeat . 
By the prompt transport of the Moonstone to his banker's , he took the conspirators by surprise before they were prepared with a new plan for robbing him . 
in a banker's strong room . 
In a year from the time when the Moonstone was pledged , the Indians will be on the watch for their third chance . 
Mr. Luker's own lips have told them how long they will have to wait , and your respectable authority has satisfied them that Mr. Luker has spoken the truth . 
And we are now in the year 'forty eight . 
If the unknown person who has pledged the Moonstone can redeem it in a year , the jewel will be in that person's possession again at the end of June , 'forty nine . 
I shall be thousands of miles from England and English news at that date . 
But it may be worth YOUR while to take a note of it , and to arrange to be in London at the time . 
You think something serious will happen ? I said . 
The Indians have been defeated twice running , Mr. Bruff . 
It's my firm belief that they won't be defeated a third time . 
Those were the last words he said on the subject . 
The coffee came in the guests rose , and dispersed themselves about the room and we joined the ladies of the dinner party upstairs . 
I made a note of the date , and it may not be amiss if I close my narrative by repeating that note here JUNE , 'FORTY NINE . 
EXPECT NEWS OF THE INDIANS , TOWARDS THE END OF THE MONTH . 
And that done , I hand the pen , which I have now no further claim to use , to the writer who follows me next . 
The man was to join me again at an appointed place and time . 
An accident , for which he was not responsible , delayed him on his errand . 
For a week I and my people waited , encamped on the borders of a desert . 
At the end of that time the missing man made his appearance , with the money and the letters , at the entrance of my tent . 
I know nothing , in a case of this kind , so unendurable as suspense . 
The letter with the mourning border was the letter that I opened first . 
It informed me that my father was dead , and that I was heir to his great fortune . 
The wealth which had thus fallen into my hands brought its responsibilities with it , and Mr. Bruff entreated me to lose no time in returning to England . 
By daybreak the next morning , I was on my way back to my own country . 
The picture presented of me , by my old friend Betteredge , at the time of my departure from England , is a little overdrawn . 
I went abroad , resolved if change and absence could help me to forget her . 
The nearer I drew to the country which she inhabited , and to the prospect of seeing her again , the more irresistibly her influence began to recover its hold on me . 
On leaving England she was the last person in the world whose name I would have suffered to pass my lips . 
On returning to England , she was the first person I inquired after , when Mr. Bruff and I met again . 
I troubled him with no embarrassing questions on this delicate subject . 
advanced naturally to the present time . 
They were reported to me as getting on together admirably well , and as being now established , for the season , in Mrs. Merridew's house in Portland Place . 
I sent him upstairs with my card , as the speediest way of setting the question at rest . 
The man came down again with an impenetrable face , and informed me that Miss Verinder was out . 
I might have suspected other people of purposely denying themselves to me . 
But it was impossible to suspect Rachel . 
I left word that I would call again at six o'clock that evening . 
At six o'clock I was informed for the second time that Miss Verinder was not at home . 
Had any message been left for me . 
No message had been left for me . 
Had Miss Verinder not received my card ? The servant begged my pardon Miss Verinder HAD received it . 
The inference was too plain to be resisted . 
Rachel declined to see me . 
On my side , I declined to be treated in this way , without making an attempt , at least , to discover a reason for it . 
I sent up my name to Mrs. Merridew , and requested her to favour me with a personal interview at any hour which it might be most convenient to her to name . 
Mrs. Merridew made no difficulty about receiving me at once . 
I was shown into a comfortable little sitting room , and found myself in the presence of a comfortable little elderly lady . 
She was so good as to feel great regret and much surprise , entirely on my account . 
This was said over and over again , with a polite patience that nothing could tire and this was all I gained by applying to Mrs. Merridew . 
My last chance was to write to Rachel . 
My servant took a letter to her the next day , with strict instructions to wait for an answer . 
The answer came back , literally in one sentence . 
Miss Verinder begs to decline entering into any correspondence with Mr. Franklin Blake . 
Fond as I was of her , I felt indignantly the insult offered to me in that reply . 
Mr. Bruff came in to speak to me on business , before I had recovered possession of myself . 
I dismissed the business on the spot , and laid the whole case before him . 
He proved to be as incapable of enlightening me as Mrs. Merridew herself . 
I asked him if any slander had been spoken of me in Rachel's hearing . 
Mr. Bruff was not aware of any slander of which I was the object . 
Had she referred to me in any way while she was staying under Mr. Bruff's roof ? Never . 
Had she not so much as asked , during all my long absence , whether I was living or dead ? No such question had ever passed her lips . 
I took out of my pocket book the letter which poor Lady Verinder had written to me from Frizinghall , on the day when I left her house in Yorkshire . 
Moving blindfold in this matter , you have added to the burden of anxiety which she has had to bear , by innocently threatening her secret with discovery through your exertions . 
Is it possible , I asked , that the feeling towards me which is there described , is as bitter as ever against me now ? Mr. Bruff looked unaffectedly distressed . 
If you insist on an answer , he said , I own I can place no other interpretation on her conduct than that . 
I rang the bell , and directed my servant to pack my portmanteau , and to send out for a railway guide . 
Mr. Bruff asked , in astonishment , what I was going to do . 
I am going to Yorkshire , I answered , by the next train . 
I won't accept that position ! I am determined to find out the secret of her silence towards her mother , and her enmity towards me . 
I was deaf to everything that he could urge . 
No earthly consideration would , at that moment , have shaken the resolution that was in me . 
The gardener was the first person whom I saw in the deserted grounds . 
He had left Betteredge , an hour since , sunning himself in the customary corner of the back yard . 
I knew it well and I said I would go and seek him myself . 
I walked round by the familiar paths and passages , and looked in at the open gate of the yard . 
Either the dogs saw it , or their keen scent informed them of my approach they started up with a growl . 
Starting in his turn , the old man quieted them by a word , and then shaded his failing eyes with his hand , and looked inquiringly at the figure at the gate . 
My own eyes were full of tears . 
I was obliged to wait a moment before I could trust myself to speak to him . 
The verdict ended in favour of the book . 
Here's the bit , Mr. Franklin ! he said , as soon as he had recovered the use of his speech . 
I had expected him , naturally enough under the circumstances , to overwhelm me with questions . 
as a visitor at the house . 
Walk in , Mr. Franklin , he said , opening the door behind him , with his quaint old fashioned bow . 
I'll ask what brings you here afterwards I must make you comfortable first . 
There have been sad changes , since you went away . 
The house is shut up , and the servants are gone . 
It vexed me to disappoint him . 
But the house was Rachel's house , now . 
Could I eat in it , or sleep in it , after what had happened in London ? The commonest sense of self respect forbade me properly forbade me to cross the threshold . 
I took Betteredge by the arm , and led him out into the garden . 
There was no help for it . 
I was obliged to tell him the truth . 
Between his attachment to Rachel , and his attachment to me , he was sorely puzzled and distressed at the turn things had taken . 
His opinion , when he expressed it , was given in his usual downright manner , and was agreeably redolent of the most positive philosophy I know the philosophy of the Betteredge school . 
Miss Rachel has her faults I've never denied it , he began . 
And riding the high horse , now and then , is one of them . 
She has been trying to ride over you and you have put up with it . 
In that capacity he exhibited her now . 
Very well , Mr. Franklin . 
Different women have different ways of riding the high horse . 
The late Mrs. Betteredge took her exercise on that favourite female animal whenever I happened to deny her anything that she had set her heart on . 
I put up with it for some time just as you are putting up with it now from Miss Rachel . 
At last my patience wore out . 
I said That's the right place for you , my dear , and so went back to the kitchen . 
I locked myself in , and took off my coat , and turned up my shirt sleeves , and cooked my own dinner . 
When it was done , I served it up in my best manner , and enjoyed it most heartily . 
When things were as bright and clean again , as bright and clean could be , I opened the door and let Mrs. Betteredge in . 
I've had my dinner , my dear , I said and I hope you will find that I have left the kitchen all that your fondest wishes can desire . 
Come back to the house ! Quite unanswerable ! I could only assure my good friend that even HIS powers of persuasion were , in this case , thrown away on me . 
It's a lovely evening , I said . 
I shall walk to Frizinghall , and stay at the hotel , and you must come to morrow morning and breakfast with me . 
I have something to say to you . 
Betteredge shook his head gravely . 
I am heartily sorry for this , he said . 
I had hoped , Mr. Franklin , to hear that things were all smooth and pleasant again between you and Miss Rachel . 
If you must have your own way , sir , he continued , after a moment's reflection , there is no need to go to Frizinghall to night for a bed . 
It's to be had nearer than that . 
There's Hotherstone's Farm , barely two miles from here . 
You can hardly object to THAT on Miss Rachel's account , the old man added slily . 
Hotherstone lives , Mr. Franklin , on his own freehold . 
I remembered the place the moment Betteredge mentioned it . 
A more agreeable place of abode , during my stay in the neighbourhood , I could not have wished to find . 
Are the rooms to let ? I inquired . 
Mrs. Hotherstone herself , sir , asked for my good word to recommend the rooms , yesterday . 
I'll take them , Betteredge , with the greatest pleasure . 
We went back to the yard , in which I had left my travelling bag . 
He looked incredulously at the house , and then he wheeled about , and looked more incredulously still at me . 
I've lived a goodish long time in the world , said this best and dearest of all old servants but the like of this , I never did expect to see . 
There's only one more miracle that CAN happen , he said to me , over his shoulder . 
The next thing you'll do , Mr. Franklin , will be to pay me back that seven and sixpence you borrowed of me when you were a boy . 
This stroke of sarcasm put him in a better humour with himself and with me . 
We left the house , and passed through the lodge gates . 
ceased , and the privileges of curiosity began . 
He dropped back , so as to let me get on a level with him . 
Fine evening for a walk , Mr. Franklin , he said , as if we had just accidentally encountered each other at that moment . 
Supposing you had gone to the hotel at Frizinghall , sir ? Yes ? I should have had the honour of breakfasting with you , to morrow morning . 
Come and breakfast with me at Hotherstone's Farm , instead . 
Much obliged to you for your kindness , Mr. Franklin . 
But it wasn't exactly breakfast that I was driving at . 
What brought me here before ? I asked . 
The Moonstone , Mr. Franklin . 
But what brings you now , sir ? The Moonstone again , Betteredge . 
The old man suddenly stood still , and looked at me in the grey twilight as if he suspected his own ears of deceiving him . 
If that's a joke , sir , he said , I'm afraid I'm getting a little dull in my old age . 
It's no joke , I answered . 
I have come here to take up the inquiry which was dropped when I left England . 
I have come here to do what nobody has done yet to find out who took the Diamond . 
Let the Diamond be , Mr. Franklin ! Take my advice , and let the Diamond be ! That cursed Indian jewel has misguided everybody who has come near it . 
Don't waste your money and your temper in the fine spring time of your life , sir by meddling with the Moonstone . 
, when Sergeant Cuff himself made a mess of it ? Sergeant Cuff ! repeated Betteredge , shaking his forefinger at me sternly . 
The greatest policeman in England ! My mind is made up , my old friend . 
Even Sergeant Cuff doesn't daunt me . 
By the bye , I may want to speak to him , sooner or later . 
Have you heard anything of him lately ? The Sergeant won't help you , Mr. Franklin . 
Why not ? There has been an event , sir , in the police circles , since you went away . 
The great Cuff has retired from business . 
He has got a little cottage at Dorking and he's up to his eyes in the growing of roses . 
I have it in his own handwriting , Mr. Franklin . 
He has grown the white moss rose , without budding it on the dog rose first . 
And Mr. Begbie the gardener is to go to Dorking , and own that the Sergeant has beaten him at last . 
It doesn't much matter , I said . 
I must do without Sergeant Cuff's help . 
And I must trust to you , at starting . 
It is likely enough that I spoke rather carelessly . 
At any rate , Betteredge seemed to be piqued by something in the reply which I had just made to him . 
You might trust to worse than me , Mr. Franklin I can tell you that , he said a little sharply . 
I expect you to help me , I said , in picking up the fragments of evidence which Sergeant Cuff has left behind him . 
I know you can do that . 
Can you do no more ? What more can you expect from me , sir ? asked Betteredge , with an appearance of the utmost humility . 
I expect more from what you said just now . 
Mere boasting , Mr. Franklin , returned the old man obstinately . 
Some people are born boasters , and they never get over it to their dying day . 
There was only one way to take with him . 
I appealed to his interest in Rachel , and his interest in me . 
It said that Miss Rachel was mortally offended with you , for the part you had taken in trying to recover her jewel . 
And neither my lady , nor you , nor anybody else could guess why . 
Quite true , Betteredge ! And I come back from my travels , and find her mortally offended with me still . 
I knew that the Diamond was at the bottom of it , last year , and I know that the Diamond is at the bottom of it now . 
I have tried to speak to her , and she won't see me . 
I have tried to write to her , and she won't answer me . 
Those words evidently put the case before him , as he had not seen it yet . 
He asked a question which satisfied me that I had shaken him . 
There is no ill feeling in this , Mr. Franklin , on your side is there ? There was some anger , I answered , when I left London . 
But that is all worn out now . 
I want to make Rachel come to an understanding with me and I want nothing more . 
I am as certain of her as you are , I answered . 
The fullest disclosure of her secret will reveal nothing that can alter her place in your estimation , or in mine . 
Betteredge's last left scruples vanished at that . 
You may set that doubt at rest , Mr. Franklin , whenever you please . 
It was my turn to come to a standstill now . 
I tried vainly , in the gathering darkness , to see his face . 
In the surprise of the moment , I asked a little impatiently what he meant . 
Steady , sir ! proceeded Betteredge . 
I mean what I say . 
Rosanna Spearman left a sealed letter behind her a letter addressed to YOU . 
Where is it ? In the possession of a friend of hers , at Cobb's Hole . 
You must have heard tell , when you were here last , sir , of Limping Lucy a lame girl with a crutch . 
The fisherman's daughter ? The same , Mr. Franklin . 
Why wasn't the letter forwarded to me ? Limping Lucy has a will of her own , sir . 
She wouldn't give it into any hands but yours . 
And you had left England before I could write to you . 
Let's go back , Betteredge , and get it at once ! Too late , sir , to night . 
They're great savers of candles along our coast and they go to bed early at Cobb's Hole . 
Nonsense ! We might get there in half an hour . 
And when you did get there , you would find the door locked . 
He pointed to a light , glimmering below us and , at the same moment , I heard through the stillness of the evening the bubbling of a stream . 
Early ? As early , Mr. Franklin , as you like . 
We descended the path that led to the Farm . 
CHAPTER III I have only the most indistinct recollection of what happened at Hotherstone's Farm . 
To my great relief he proved to be quite as excited about the coming event as I was . 
I found him ready , and waiting for me , with his stick in his hand . 
How are you this morning , Betteredge ? Very poorly , sir . 
What do you complain of ? I complain of a new disease , Mr. Franklin , of my own inventing . 
I don't want to alarm you , but you're certain to catch it before the morning is out . 
I call it the detective fever and I first caught it in the company of Sergeant Cuff . 
Aye ! aye ! and the cure in this instance is to open Rosanna Spearman's letter , I suppose ? Come along , and let's get it . 
Early as it was , we found the fisherman's wife astir in her kitchen . 
Mr. Betteredge , she said , without taking her eyes off me , mention his name again , if you please . 
, is Mr. Franklin Blake . 
The girl turned her back on me , and suddenly left the room . 
translated them into polite English . 
I speak of this in complete uncertainty . 
My attention was absorbed in following the sound of the girl's crutch . 
She led me behind some boats , out of sight and hearing of the few people in the fishing village , and then stopped , and faced me for the first time . 
Stand there , she said , I want to look at you . 
There was no mistaking the expression on her face . 
I inspired her with the strongest emotions of abhorrence and disgust . 
Let me not be vain enough to say that no woman had ever looked at me in this manner before . 
I will only venture on the more modest assertion that no woman had ever let me perceive it yet . 
There is a limit to the length of the inspection which a man can endure , under certain circumstances . 
I attempted to direct Limping Lucy's attention to some less revolting object than my face . 
I think you have got a letter to give me , I began . 
Is it the letter there , in your hand ? Say that again , was the only answer I received . 
I repeated the words , like a good child learning its lesson . 
No , said the girl , speaking to herself , but keeping her eyes still mercilessly fixed on me . 
I can't find out what she saw in his face . 
I can't guess what she heard in his voice . 
She suddenly looked away from me , and rested her head wearily on the top of her crutch . 
Oh , my poor dear ! she said , in the first soft tones which had fallen from her , in my hearing . 
Oh , my lost darling ! what could you see in this man ? She lifted her head again fiercely , and looked at me once more . 
Can you eat and drink ? she asked . 
I did my best to preserve my gravity , and answered , Yes . 
Can you sleep ? Yes . 
When you see a poor girl in service , do you feel no remorse ? Certainly not . 
Why should I ? She abruptly thrust the letter into my face . 
Take it ! she exclaimed furiously . 
I never set eyes on you before . 
God Almighty forbid I should ever set eyes on you again . 
With those parting words she limped away from me at the top of her speed . 
The one interpretation that I could put on her conduct has , no doubt , been anticipated by everybody . 
I could only suppose that she was mad . 
Having reached that inevitable conclusion , I turned to the more interesting object of investigation which was presented to me by Rosanna Spearman's letter . 
The address was written as follows 'For Franklin Blake , Esq . 
To be given into his own hands , by Lucy Yolland . 
The envelope contained a letter and this , in its turn , contained a slip of paper . 
Your humble servant , ROSANNA SPEARMAN . 
I turned to the slip of paper next . 
Here is the literal copy of it , word for word Memorandum To go to the Shivering Sand at the turn of the tide . 
To walk out on the South Spit , until I get the South Spit Beacon , and the flagstaff at the Coast guard station above Cobb's Hole in a line together . 
To lay down on the rocks , a stick , or any straight thing to guide my hand , exactly in the line of the beacon and the flagstaff . 
To take care , in doing this , that one end of the stick shall be at the edge of the rocks , on the side of them which overlooks the quicksand . 
To run my hand along the Chain , when found , until I come to the part of it which stretches over the edge of the rocks , down into the quicksand . 
AND THEN TO PULL THE CHAIN . 
Just as I had read the last words underlined in the original I heard the voice of Betteredge behind me . 
The inventor of the detective fever had completely succumbed to that irresistible malady . 
I can't stand it any longer , Mr. Franklin . 
What does her letter say ? For mercy's sake , sir , tell us , what does her letter say ? I handed him the letter , and the memorandum . 
He read the first without appearing to be much interested in it . 
But the second the memorandum produced a strong impression on him . 
The Sergeant said it ! cried Betteredge . 
From first to last , sir , the Sergeant said she had got a memorandum of the hiding place . 
How long will it be till the turn of the tide ? He looked up , and observed a lad at work , at some little distance from us , mending a net . 
Tammie Bright ! he shouted at the top of his voice . 
I hear you ! Tammie shouted back . 
When's the turn of the tide ? In an hour's time . 
We both looked at our watches . 
We can go round by the coast , Mr. Franklin , said Betteredge and get to the quicksand in that way with plenty of time to spare . 
at the period of Sergeant Cuff's inquiry . 
With my old friend's help , I soon had the succession of circumstances clearly registered in my mind . 
With Betteredge's help , I soon stood in the right position to see the Beacon and the Coast guard flagstaff in a line together . 
Following the memorandum as our guide , we next laid my stick in the necessary direction , as neatly as we could , on the uneven surface of the rocks . 
And then we looked at our watches once more . 
It wanted nearly twenty minutes yet of the turn of the tide . 
I suggested waiting through this interval on the beach , instead of on the wet and slippery surface of the rocks . 
Having reached the dry sand , I prepared to sit down and , greatly to my surprise , Betteredge prepared to leave me . 
What are you going away for ? I asked . 
Look at the letter again , sir , and you will see . 
A glance at the letter reminded me that I was charged , when I made my discovery , to make it alone . 
It's hard enough for me to leave you , at such a time as this , said Betteredge . 
But she died a dreadful death , poor soul and I feel a kind of call on me , Mr. Franklin , to humour that fancy of hers . 
Besides , he added , confidentially , there's nothing in the letter against your letting out the secret afterwards . 
I'll hang about in the fir plantation , and wait till you pick me up . 
Don't be longer than you can help , sir . 
The detective fever isn't an easy disease to deal with , under THESE circumstances . 
With that parting caution , he left me . 
The interval of expectation , short as it was when reckoned by the measure of time , assumed formidable proportions when reckoned by the measure of suspense . 
This was one of the occasions on which the invaluable habit of smoking becomes especially precious and consolatory . 
I lit a cigar , and sat down on the slope of the beach . 
The sunlight poured its unclouded beauty on every object that I could see . 
The exquisite freshness of the air made the mere act of living and breathing a luxury . 
It was the finest day I had seen since my return to England . 
The turn of the tide came , before my cigar was finished . 
I threw away my cigar , and went back again to the rocks . 
My directions in the memorandum instructed me to feel along the line traced by the stick , beginning with the end which was nearest to the beacon . 
I advanced , in this manner , more than half way along the stick , without encountering anything but the edges of the rocks . 
An inch or two further on , however , my patience was rewarded . 
In a narrow little fissure , just within reach of my forefinger , I felt the chain . 
It was equally impossible to pull up the seaweed , or to force my hand through it . 
My idea was to sound immediately under the rocks , on the chance of recovering the lost trace of the chain at the point at which it entered the sand . 
I took up the stick , and knelt down on the brink of the South Spit . 
In this position , my face was within a few feet of the surface of the quicksand . 
The sight of it so near me , still disturbed at intervals by its hideous shivering fit , shook my nerves for the moment . 
I own I closed my eyes at the moment when the point of the stick first entered the quicksand . 
Sounding blindfold , at my first attempt at that first attempt I had sounded right ! The stick struck the chain . 
My right hand found the chain . 
I drew it up without the slightest difficulty . 
And there was the japanned tin case fastened to the end of it . 
The action of the water had so rusted the chain , that it was impossible for me to unfasten it from the hasp which attached it to the case . 
Putting the case between my knees and exerting my utmost strength , I contrived to draw off the cover . 
Some white substance filled the whole interior when I looked in . 
I put in my hand , and found it to be linen . 
In drawing out the linen , I also drew out a letter crumpled up with it . 
After looking at the direction , and discovering that it bore my name , I put the letter in my pocket , and completely removed the linen . 
I carried the linen to the dry sand of the beach , and there unrolled and smoothed it out . 
There was no mistaking it as an article of dress . 
The uppermost side , when I spread it out , presented to view innumerable folds and creases , and nothing more . 
Find out whether there is any article of dress in this house with the stain of paint on it . 
Find out who that dress belongs to . 
Find out how the person can account for having been in the room , and smeared the paint between midnight and three in the morning . 
If the person can't satisfy you , you haven't far to look for the hand that took the Diamond . 
One after another those words travelled over my memory , repeating themselves again and again with a wearisome , mechanical reiteration . 
I was roused from what felt like a trance of many hours from what was really , no doubt , the pause of a few moments only by a voice calling to me . 
I looked up , and saw that Betteredge's patience had failed him at last . 
He was just visible between the sandhills , returning to the beach . 
I had discovered the smear on the nightgown . 
To whom did the nightgown belong ? My first impulse was to consult the letter in my pocket the letter which I had found in the case . 
As I raised my hand to take it out , I remembered that there was a shorter way to discovery than this . 
The nightgown itself would reveal the truth , for , in all probability , the nightgown was marked with its owner's name . 
I took it up from the sand , and looked for the mark . 
I found the mark , and read MY OWN NAME . 
There were the familiar letters which told me that the nightgown was mine . 
I looked up from them . 
There was the sun there were the glittering waters of the bay there was old Betteredge , advancing nearer and nearer to me . 
I looked back again at the letters . 
Plainly confronting me my own name . 
If time , pains , and money can do it , I will lay my hand on the thief who took the Moonstone . 
I had left London , with those words on my lips . 
I had penetrated the secret which the quicksand had kept from every other living creature . 
And , on the unanswerable evidence of the paint stain , I had discovered Myself as the Thief . 
CHAPTER IV I have not a word to say about my own sensations . 
My impression is that the shock inflicted on me completely suspended my thinking and feeling power . 
Of what was said between us on the beach , I have not the faintest recollection . 
The first place in which I can now see myself again plainly is the plantation of firs . 
The scene shifts from the plantation , to Betteredge's little sitting room . 
My resolution not to enter Rachel's house is forgotten . 
I feel gratefully the coolness and shadiness and quiet of the room . 
, which my good old friend mixes with icy cold water from the well . 
Under any other circumstances , the drink would simply stupefy me . 
As things are , it strings up my nerves . 
I begin to face it , as Betteredge has predicted . 
And Betteredge , on his side , begins to face it , too . 
The picture which I am now presenting of myself , will , I suspect , be thought a very strange one , to say the least of it . 
HE'S a liar , to begin with . 
This comforting view of the matter was not the view that presented itself to my mind . 
I am as innocent of all knowledge of having taken the Diamond as you are , I said . 
But there is the witness against me ! The paint on the nightgown , and the name on the nightgown are facts . 
Betteredge lifted my glass , and put it persuasively into my hand . 
Take a drop more grog , Mr. Franklin , and you'll get over the weakness of believing in facts ! Foul play , sir ! he continued , dropping his voice confidentially . 
That is how I read the riddle . 
Foul play somewhere and you and I must find it out . 
Was there nothing else in the tin case , when you put your hand into it ? The question instantly reminded me of the letter in my pocket . 
I took it out , and opened it . 
It was a letter of many pages , closely written . 
I looked impatiently for the signature at the end . 
As I read the name , a sudden remembrance illuminated my mind , and a sudden suspicion rose out of the new light . 
Rosanna Spearman came to my aunt out of a reformatory ? Rosanna Spearman had once been a thief ? There's no denying that , Mr. Franklin . 
You will be cleared of this , Mr. Franklin , beyond all doubt . 
But I hope you won't be cleared in THAT way . 
See what the letter says , sir . 
In justice to the girl's memory , see what it says . 
I felt the earnestness with which he spoke felt it as a friendly rebuke to me . 
You shall form your own judgment on her letter , I said . 
I will read it out . 
I began and read these lines Sir I have something to own to you . 
A confession which means much misery , may sometimes be made in very few words . 
This confession can be made in three words . 
The letter dropped from my hand . 
In the name of Heaven , I said , what does it mean ? He seemed to shrink from answering the question . 
You and Limping Lucy were alone together this morning , sir , he said . 
Did she say nothing about Rosanna Spearman ? She never even mentioned Rosanna Spearman's name . 
Please to go back to the letter , Mr. Franklin . 
I tell you plainly , I can't find it in my heart to distress you , after what you have had to bear already . 
Let her speak for herself , sir . 
And get on with your grog . 
For your own sake , get on with your grog . 
I resumed the reading of the letter . 
It would be very disgraceful to me to tell you this , if I was a living woman when you read it . 
I shall be dead and gone , sir , when you find my letter . 
It is that which makes me bold . 
Not even my grave will be left to tell of me . 
I may own the truth with the quicksand waiting to hide me when the words are written . 
I did these strange things , because I loved you . 
I won't trouble you with much about myself , or my life , before you came to my lady's house . 
Lady Verinder took me out of a reformatory . 
I had gone to the reformatory from the prison . 
I was put in the prison , because I was a thief . 
I was a thief , because my mother went on the streets when I was quite a little girl . 
My mother went on the streets , because the gentleman who was my father deserted her . 
There is no need to tell such a common story as this , at any length . 
It is told quite often enough in the newspapers . 
Lady Verinder was very kind to me , and Mr. Betteredge was very kind to me . 
Those two , and the matron at the reformatory , are the only good people I have ever met with in all my life . 
I might have got on in my place not happily but I might have got on , if you had not come visiting . 
I don't blame you , sir . 
It's my fault all my fault . 
Do you remember when you came out on us from among the sand hills , that morning , looking for Mr. Betteredge ? You were like a prince in a fairy story . 
You were like a lover in a dream . 
You were the most adorable human creature I had ever seen . 
Something that felt like the happy life I had never led yet , leapt up in me at the instant I set eyes on you . 
Don't laugh at this if you can help it . 
Then , some devil no , I ought to say some good angel whispered to me , Go and look in the glass . 
The glass told me never mind what . 
I was too foolish to take the warning . 
I tried oh , dear , how I tried to get you to look at me . 
It would have been no very kind look , perhaps , if you had known how I hated Miss Rachel . 
I believe I found out you were in love with her , before you knew it yourself . 
She used to give you roses to wear in your button hole . 
If she had been really as pretty as you thought her , I might have borne it better . 
No I believe I should have been more spiteful against her still . 
Suppose you put Miss Rachel into a servant's dress , and took her ornaments off ? I don't know what is the use of my writing in this way . 
It can't be denied that she had a bad figure she was too thin . 
But who can tell what the men like ? And young ladies may behave in a manner which would cost a servant her place . 
It's no business of mine . 
I can't expect you to read my letter , if I write it in this way . 
But it does stir one up to hear Miss Rachel called pretty , when one knows all the time that it's her dress does it , and her confidence in herself . 
Try not to lose patience with me , sir . 
I will get on as fast as I can to the time which is sure to interest you the time when the Diamond was lost . 
But there is one thing which I have got it on my mind to tell you first . 
My life was not a very hard life to bear , while I was a thief . 
It was only when they had taught me at the reformatory to feel my own degradation , and to try for better things , that the days grew long and weary . 
Thoughts of the future forced themselves on me now . 
I felt the dreadful reproach that honest people even the kindest of honest people were to me in themselves . 
A heart breaking sensation of loneliness kept with me , go where I might , and do what I might , and see what persons I might . 
It was my duty , I know , to try and get on with my fellow servants in my new place . 
Somehow , I couldn't make friends with them . 
as if they suspected what I had been . 
I don't regret , far from it , having been roused to make the effort to be a reformed woman but , indeed , indeed it was a weary life . 
You had come across it like a beam of sunshine at first and then you too failed me . 
I was mad enough to love you and I couldn't even attract your notice . 
There was great misery there really was great misery in that . 
Now I am coming to what I wanted to tell you . 
In those days of bitterness , I went two or three times , when it was my turn to go out , to my favourite place the beach above the Shivering Sand . 
And I said to myself , I think it will end here . 
When I can bear it no longer , I think it will end here . 
You will understand , sir , that the place had laid a kind of spell on me before you came . 
I had always had a notion that something would happen to me at the quicksand . 
But I had never looked at it , with the thought of its being the means of my making away with myself , till the time came of which I am now writing . 
Then I did think that here was a place which would end all my troubles for me in a moment or two and hide me for ever afterwards . 
I went with the rest , because if I had done anything different from the rest , Mr. Seegrave was the sort of man who would have suspected me directly . 
We found him in Miss Rachel's room . 
passed , and noticed what I was about . 
'You needn't trouble yourself , Rosanna , she said . 
'The paint on Miss Rachel's door has been dry for hours . 
If Mr. Seegrave hadn't set a watch on our bedrooms , I might have told him as much . 
I don't know what you think I was never so insulted before in my life ! Penelope was a hot tempered girl . 
I quieted her , and brought her back to what she had said about the paint on the door having been dry for hours . 
'How do you know that ? I asked . 
'I was with Miss Rachel , and Mr. Franklin , all yesterday morning , Penelope said , 'mixing the colours , while they finished the door . 
I heard Miss Rachel ask whether the door would be dry that evening , in time for the birthday company to see it . 
And Mr. Franklin shook his head , and said it wouldn't be dry in less than twelve hours . 
It was long past luncheon time it was three o'clock before they had done . 
What does your arithmetic say , Rosanna ? Mine says the door was dry by three this morning . 
'Did some of the ladies go up stairs yesterday evening to see it ? I asked . 
'I thought I heard Miss Rachel warning them to keep clear of the door . 
'None of the ladies made the smear , Penelope answered . 
'I left Miss Rachel in bed at twelve last night . 
And I noticed the door , and there was nothing wrong with it then . 
My work , sir , was to make your bed , and to put your room tidy . 
It was the happiest hour I had in the whole day . 
I used to kiss the pillow on which your head had rested all night . 
No matter who has done it since , you have never had your clothes folded as nicely as I folded them for you . 
Of all the little knick knacks in your dressing case , there wasn't one that had so much as a speck on it . 
You never noticed it , any more than you noticed me . 
I beg your pardon I am forgetting myself . 
I will make haste , and go on again . 
Well , I went in that morning to do my work in your room . 
There was your nightgown tossed across the bed , just as you had thrown it off . 
You would only be angry and , if you were angry , you might tear my letter up and read no more of it . 
Let it be enough , if you please , to say only this . 
After thinking it over to the best of my ability , I made it out that the thing wasn't likely , for a reason that I will tell you . 
You will not have forgotten that I have owned to hating Miss Rachel . 
Try to think , if you can , that there was a little of that hatred in all this . 
It ended in my determining to keep the nightgown , and to wait , and watch , and see what use I might make of it . 
At that time , please to remember , not the ghost of an idea entered my head that you had stolen the Diamond . 
There , I broke off in the reading of the letter for the second time . 
I had read those portions of the miserable woman's confession which related to myself , with unaffected surprise , and , I can honestly add , with sincere distress . 
I had regretted , truly regretted , the aspersion which I had thoughtlessly cast on her memory , before I had seen a line of her letter . 
But when I had advanced as far as the passage which is quoted above , I own I felt my mind growing bitterer and bitterer against Rosanna Spearman as I went on . 
Read the rest for yourself , I said , handing the letter to Betteredge across the table . 
If there is anything in it that I must look at , you can tell me as you go on . 
I understand you , Mr. Franklin , he answered . 
It's natural , sir , in YOU . 
And , God help us all ! he added , in a lower tone , it's no less natural in HER . 
could turn it to in the future , the next thing to discover was how to keep it without the risk of being found out . 
being in doubt lest some accident might happen in the interval . 
, while I could count , if I played my cards properly , on having my time to myself . 
as to find out whether you had smeared off any of the paint stain from your nightgown , on the bed , or on any piece of furniture in the room . 
I suppose you felt chilly after walking to and fro in nothing but your nightdress , and put on the warmest thing you could find . 
At any rate , there were the stains , just visible , on the inside of the dressing gown . 
I easily got rid of these by scraping away the stuff of the flannel . 
This done , the only proof left against you was the proof locked up in my drawer . 
I had just finished your room when I was sent for to be questioned by Mr. Seegrave , along with the rest of the servants . 
Next came the examination of all our boxes . 
And then followed the most extraordinary event of the day to ME since I had found the paint on your nightgown . 
This event came out of the second questioning of Penelope Betteredge by Superintendent Seegrave . 
Penelope returned to us quite beside herself with rage at the manner in which Mr. Seegrave had treated her . 
He had hinted , beyond the possibility of mistaking him , that he suspected her of being the thief . 
We were all equally astonished at hearing this , and we all asked , Why ? 'Because the Diamond was in Miss Rachel's sitting room , Penelope answered . 
My head whirled round , and my thoughts were in dreadful confusion . 
The excitement of this new discovery of mine must , I think , have turned my head for a while . 
You had left one of your rings up stairs , which made as good an excuse for my intrusion as I could have desired . 
When you had thanked me , you looked back , if you remember , at your writing . 
I was so mortified at being treated in this way , that I plucked up spirit enough to speak . 
I said , 'This is a strange thing about the Diamond , sir . 
but still you kept a distance a cruel distance between us . 
I said , 'They will never find the Diamond , sir , will they ? No ! nor the person who took it I'll answer for that . 
Just at that moment , Mr. Betteredge spoilt it all by coming to the door . 
I had only just time to get out of my own accord , before he could come in and tell me to go . 
I was angry and disappointed but I was not entirely without hope for all that . 
The ice , you see , was broken between us and I thought I would take care , on the next occasion , that Mr. Betteredge was out of the way . 
When I got back to the servants' hall , the bell was going for our dinner . 
Afternoon already ! and the materials for making the new nightgown were still to be got ! There was but one chance of getting them . 
I shammed ill at dinner and so secured the whole of the interval from then till tea time to my own use . 
Sergeant Cuff discovered that much , if he discovered nothing more . 
And I can guess how . 
in the draper's shop at Frizinghall . 
At night again , when I was secretly at work , locked into my room , I heard the breathing of the women servants who suspected me , outside my door . 
It didn't matter then it doesn't matter now . 
of the newness of the nightgown betraying me . 
All your underclothing had been renewed , when you came to our house I suppose on your return home from foreign parts . 
The next thing was the arrival of Sergeant Cuff and the next great surprise was the announcement of what HE thought about the smear on the door . 
, more because I wanted you to be guilty than for any other reason . 
At that place , Betteredge looked up from the letter . 
Not a glimmer of light so far , Mr. Franklin , said the old man , taking off his heavy tortoiseshell spectacles , and pushing Rosanna Spearman's confession a little away from him . 
I shall have a word or two to say to you after that . 
I'll just rest my eyes , and then I'll go on again . 
After Mr. Bruff and the Sergeant , I don't know of a living creature who can be of the slightest use to me . 
As the words passed my lips , some person outside knocked at the door of the room . 
Betteredge looked surprised as well as annoyed by the interruption . 
Judging him by his figure and his movements , he was still young . 
Judging him by his face , and comparing him with Betteredge , he looked the elder of the two . 
His complexion was of a gipsy darkness his fleshless cheeks had fallen into deep hollows , over which the bone projected like a pent house . 
His nose presented the fine shape and modelling so often found among the ancient people of the East , so seldom visible among the newer races of the West . 
His forehead rose high and straight from the brow . 
His marks and wrinkles were innumerable . 
took your attention captive at their will . 
Add to this a quantity of thick closely curling hair , which , by some freak of Nature , had lost its colour in the most startlingly partial and capricious manner . 
Over the top of his head it was still of the deep black which was its natural colour . 
Round the sides of his head without the slightest gradation of grey to break the force of the extraordinary contrast it had turned completely white . 
The line between the two colours preserved no sort of regularity . 
At one place , the white hair ran up into the black at another , the black hair ran down into the white . 
I looked at the man with a curiosity which , I am ashamed to say , I found it quite impossible to control . 
His soft brown eyes looked back at me gently and he met my involuntary rudeness in staring at him , with an apology which I was conscious that I had not deserved . 
I beg your pardon , he said . 
I had no idea that Mr. Betteredge was engaged . 
He took a slip of paper from his pocket , and handed it to Betteredge . 
The list for next week , he said . 
His eyes just rested on me again and he left the room as quietly as he had entered it . 
Who is that ? I asked . 
Mr. Candy's assistant , said Betteredge . 
By the bye , Mr. Franklin , you will be sorry to hear that the little doctor has never recovered that illness he caught , going home from the birthday dinner . 
He's pretty well in health but he lost his memory in the fever , and he has never recovered more than the wreck of it since . 
The work all falls on his assistant . 
Not much of it now , except among the poor . 
THEY can't help themselves , you know . 
THEY must put up with the man with the piebald hair , and the gipsy complexion or they would get no doctoring at all . 
You don't seem to like him , Betteredge ? Nobody likes him , sir . 
Why is he so unpopular ? Well , Mr. Franklin , his appearance is against him , to begin with . 
And then there's a story that Mr. Candy took him with a very doubtful character . 
Nobody knows who he is and he hasn't a friend in the place . 
My lady always had a regular distribution of good sound port and sherry among the infirm poor and Miss Rachel wishes the custom to be kept up . 
Times have changed ! times have changed ! I remember when Mr. Candy himself brought the list to my mistress . 
Now it's Mr. Candy's assistant who brings the list to me . 
I'll go on with the letter , if you will allow me , sir , said Betteredge , drawing Rosanna Spearman's confession back to him . 
It isn't lively reading , I grant you . 
But , there ! it keeps me from getting sour with thinking of the past . 
He put on his spectacles , and wagged his head gloomily . 
There's a bottom of good sense , Mr. Franklin , in our conduct to our mothers , when they first start us on the journey of life . 
We are all of us more or less unwilling to be brought into the world . 
And we are all of us right . 
Mr. Candy's assistant had produced too strong an impression on me to be immediately dismissed from my thoughts . 
I passed over the last unanswerable utterance of the Betteredge philosophy and returned to the subject of the man with the piebald hair . 
What is his name ? I asked . 
As ugly a name as need be , Betteredge answered gruffly . 
CHAPTER V Having told me the name of Mr. Candy's assistant , Betteredge appeared to think that we had wasted enough of our time on an insignificant subject . 
He resumed the perusal of Rosanna Spearman's letter . 
On my side , I sat at the window , waiting until he had done . 
My thoughts flowed back into their former channel . 
Once more , I forced myself to look my own incredible position resolutely in the face . 
Once more , I reviewed in my own mind the course which I had at last summoned composure enough to plan out for the future . 
a personal interview with Rachel this was my plan of action , so far as I was capable of forming it at the time . 
There was more than an hour still to spare before the train started . 
For that chance I was now waiting . 
Anxieties and fears soon came back to me . 
With the view Sergeant Cuff took of the loss of the Diamond , he would be sure to end in examining our linen and our dresses . 
There was no place in my room there was no place in the house which I could feel satisfied would be safe from him . 
My uncertainties ended in my taking a way that may make you laugh . 
I undressed , and put the nightgown on me . 
You had worn it and I had another little moment of pleasure in wearing it after you . 
The next news that reached us in the servants' hall showed that I had not made sure of the nightgown a moment too soon . 
Sergeant Cuff wanted to see the washing book . 
I found it , and took it to him in my lady's sitting room . 
The Sergeant and I had come across each other more than once in former days . 
In this suspense , I felt it would be a relief to me to get the meeting between us over , and to know the worst of it at once . 
He looked at me as if I was a stranger , when I handed him the washing book and he was very specially polite in thanking me for bringing it . 
I thought those were both bad signs . 
There was no knowing what he might say of me behind my back there was no knowing how soon I might not find myself taken in custody on suspicion , and searched . 
You never appeared and , what was worse still , Mr. Betteredge and Sergeant Cuff passed by the place where I was hiding and the Sergeant saw me . 
I had no choice , after that , but to return to my proper place and my proper work , before more disasters happened to me . 
Just as I was going to step across the path , you came back from the railway . 
The writer is entirely mistaken , poor creature . 
My intention was certainly to have taken a turn in the shrubbery . 
But , remembering at the same moment that my aunt might wish to see me , after my return from the railway , I altered my mind , and went into the house . 
I made the best of my way indoors again , returning by the servants' entrance . 
There was nobody in the laundry room at that time and I sat down there alone . 
I have told you already of the thoughts which the Shivering Sand put into my head . 
Those thoughts came back to me now . 
I try and I can't understand it myself . 
Why didn't I stop you , when you avoided me in that cruel manner ? Why didn't I call out , 'Mr . 
of being useful to you in the future . 
Of course , I never supposed that you a gentleman had stolen the Diamond for the mere pleasure of stealing it . 
No. Penelope had heard Miss Rachel , and I had heard Mr. Betteredge , talk about your extravagance and your debts . 
It was plain enough to me that you had taken the Diamond to sell it , or pledge it , and so to get the money of which you stood in need . 
if I presumed to tell you that I had found it out . 
I had gone as near to it as I dared when I spoke to you in the library . 
You had not turned your back on me then . 
You had not started away from me as if I had got the plague . 
I tried to provoke myself into feeling angry with you , and to rouse up my courage in that way . 
No ! I couldn't feel anything but the misery and the mortification of it . 
I ask your pardon , once more , for this wandering of my pen . 
There is no fear of its happening again . 
I am close at the end now . 
The first person who disturbed me by coming into the empty room was Penelope . 
She had found out my secret long since , and she had done her best to bring me to my senses and done it kindly too . 
'Ah ! she said , 'I know why you're sitting here , and fretting , all by yourself . 
The best thing that can happen for your advantage , Rosanna , will be for Mr. Franklin's visit here to come to an end . 
It's my belief that he won't be long now before he leaves the house . 
In all my thoughts of you I had never thought of your going away . 
I couldn't speak to Penelope . 
I could only look at her . 
'I've just left Miss Rachel , Penelope went on . 
'And a hard matter I have had of it to put up with her temper . 
She says the house is unbearable to her with the police in it and she's determined to speak to my lady this evening , and to go to her Aunt Ablewhite to morrow . 
'Do you mean to say Mr. Franklin will go with her ? I asked . 
'Only too gladly , if she would let him but she won't . 
Where he may betake himself to I can't say . 
But he will never stay here , Rosanna , after Miss Rachel has left us . 
I managed to master the despair I felt at the prospect of your going away . 
To own the truth , I saw a little glimpse of hope for myself if there was really a serious disagreement between Miss Rachel and you . 
'Do you know , I asked , 'what the quarrel is between them ? 'It is all on Miss Rachel's side , Penelope said . 
'And , for anything I know to the contrary , it's all Miss Rachel's temper , and nothing else . 
I am loth to distress you , Rosanna but don't run away with the notion that Mr. Franklin is ever likely to quarrel with HER . 
He's a great deal too fond of her for that ! She had only just spoken those cruel words when there came a call to us from Mr. Betteredge . 
All the indoor servants were to assemble in the hall . 
And then we were to go in , one by one , and be questioned in Mr. Betteredge's room by Sergeant Cuff . 
It came to my turn to go in , after her ladyship's maid and the upper housemaid had been questioned first . 
had made their discoveries outside my door , on the Tuesday afternoon , and again on the Thursday night . 
They had told the Sergeant enough to open his eyes to some part of the truth . 
He rightly believed me to have made a new nightgown secretly , but he wrongly believed the paint stained nightgown to be mine . 
I felt satisfied of another thing , from what he said , which it puzzled me to understand . 
He suspected me , of course , of being concerned in the disappearance of the Diamond . 
But , at the same time , he let me see purposely , as I thought that he did not consider me as the person chiefly answerable for the loss of the jewel . 
He appeared to think that I had been acting under the direction of somebody else . 
Who that person might be , I couldn't guess then , and can't guess now . 
In this uncertainty , one thing was plain that Sergeant Cuff was miles away from knowing the whole truth . 
You were safe as long as the nightgown was safe and not a moment longer . 
I quite despair of making you understand the distress and terror which pressed upon me now . 
It was impossible for me to risk wearing your nightgown any longer . 
I might find myself taken off , at a moment's notice , to the police court at Frizinghall , to be charged on suspicion , and searched accordingly . 
If I had only been a little less fond of you , I think I should have destroyed it . 
I determined to hide it and the place I fixed on was the place I knew best the Shivering Sand . 
As soon as the questioning was over , I made the first excuse that came into my head , and got leave to go out for a breath of fresh air . 
I went straight to Cobb's Hole , to Mr. Yolland's cottage . 
His wife and daughter were the best friends I had . 
Don't suppose I trusted them with your secret I have trusted nobody . 
All I wanted was to write this letter to you , and to have a safe opportunity of taking the nightgown off me . 
Suspected as I was , I could do neither of those things with any sort of security , at the house . 
And now I have nearly got through my long letter , writing it alone in Lucy Yolland's bedroom . 
When it is done , I shall go downstairs with the nightgown rolled up , and hidden under my cloak . 
I shall find the means I want for keeping it safe and dry in its hiding place , among the litter of old things in Mrs. Yolland's kitchen . 
If you leave the house , as Penelope believes you will leave it , and if I haven't spoken to you before that , I shall lose my opportunity forever . 
Then , again , there is the comforting knowledge if my speaking does make you angry that I have got the nightgown ready to plead my cause for me as nothing else can . 
That is my other reason . 
, there will be the end of my efforts and the end of my life . 
Good bye to life , which nothing but a little kindness from you can ever make pleasurable to me again . 
Don't blame yourself , sir , if it ends in this way . 
It's time I left off . 
I am making myself cry . 
into the hiding place along with the nightgown . 
It has been hard , hard work writing my letter . 
The reading of the letter was completed by Betteredge in silence . 
After carefully putting it back in the envelope , he sat thinking , with his head bowed down , and his eyes on the ground . 
Betteredge , I said , is there any hint to guide me at the end of the letter ? He looked up slowly , with a heavy sigh . 
There is nothing to guide you , Mr. Franklin , he answered . 
If you take my advice you will keep the letter in the cover till these present anxieties of yours have come to an end . 
It will sorely distress you , whenever you read it . 
I put the letter away in my pocket book . 
Twice over , the unhappy woman had made her last attempt to speak to me . 
to repel the advances she had made to me . 
On the Friday night , as Betteredge truly describes it , she had found me alone at the billiard table . 
Her manner and language suggested to me and would have suggested to any man , under the circumstances that she was about to confess a guilty knowledge of the disappearance of the Diamond . 
She had once more attempted to meet me in the shrubbery walk , and she had found me there in company with Betteredge and Sergeant Cuff . 
In her hearing , the Sergeant , with his own underhand object in view , had appealed to my interest in Rosanna Spearman . 
From that point , I have already traced the succession of events which led me to the astounding discovery at the quicksand . 
The retrospect is now complete . 
CHAPTER VI I walked to the railway station accompanied , it is needless to say , by Gabriel Betteredge . 
We left the house in silence . 
For the first time in my experience of him , I found old Betteredge in my company without a word to say to me . 
Having something to say on my side , I opened the conversation as soon as we were clear of the lodge gates . 
Before I go to London , I began , I have two questions to ask you . 
They relate to myself , and I believe they will rather surprise you . 
If they will put that poor creature's letter out of my head , Mr. Franklin , they may do anything else they like with me . 
Please to begin surprising me , sir , as soon as you can . 
My first question , Betteredge , is this . 
Was I drunk on the night of Rachel's Birthday ? YOU drunk ! exclaimed the old man . 
I might have abandoned my regular habits , on that night of all others . 
Betteredge considered for a moment . 
You did go out of your habits , sir , he said . 
And I'll tell you how . 
You looked wretchedly ill and we persuaded you to have a drop of brandy and water to cheer you up a little . 
I am not used to brandy and water . 
It is quite possible Wait a bit , Mr. Franklin . 
I knew you were not used , too . 
I drowned that noble liquor in nigh on a tumbler full of cold water . 
A child couldn't have got drunk on it let alone a grown man ! I knew I could depend on his memory , in a matter of this kind . 
It was plainly impossible that I could have been intoxicated . 
I passed on to the second question . 
I see your drift now , Mr. Franklin ! he said You're trying to account for how you got the paint on your nightgown , without knowing it yourself . 
It won't do , sir . 
You're miles away still from getting at the truth . 
Walk in your sleep ? You never did such a thing in your life ! Here again , I felt that Betteredge must be right . 
Neither at home nor abroad had my life ever been of the solitary sort . 
Let's try it another way , sir , he said . 
Keep your own opinion , and see how far it will take you towards finding out the truth . 
Is that right , so far ? Quite right . 
We'll say you were drunk , or walking in your sleep , when you took the jewel . 
That accounts for the night and morning , after the birthday . 
But how does it account for what has happened since that time ? The Diamond has been taken to London , since that time . 
The Diamond has been pledged to Mr. Luker , since that time . 
The sooner you lay your head alongside Mr. Bruff's head , the sooner you will see your way out of the dead lock that has got you now . 
We reached the station , with only a minute or two to spare . 
This done , and just as I was bidding him farewell , I happened to glance towards the book and newspaper stall . 
There was Mr. Candy's remarkable looking assistant again , speaking to the keeper of the stall ! Our eyes met at the same moment . 
Ezra Jennings took off his hat to me . 
I returned the salute , and got into a carriage just as the train started . 
It was a relief to my mind , I suppose , to dwell on any subject which appeared to be , personally , of no sort of importance to me . 
I shall best describe the effect which my story produced on the mind of Mr. Bruff by relating his proceedings when he had heard it to the end . 
These preliminaries disposed of , he first examined the nightgown , and then devoted himself to the reading of Rosanna Spearman's letter . 
The reading completed , Mr. Bruff addressed me for the first time since we had been shut up together in the seclusion of his own room . 
Franklin Blake , said the old gentleman , this is a very serious matter , in more respects than one . 
In my opinion , it concerns Rachel quite as nearly as it concerns you . 
Her extraordinary conduct is no mystery NOW . 
She believes you have stolen the Diamond . 
I had shrunk from reasoning my own way fairly to that revolting conclusion . 
But it had forced itself on me , nevertheless . 
My resolution to obtain a personal interview with Rachel , rested really and truly on the ground just stated by Mr. Bruff . 
The first step to take in this investigation , the lawyer proceeded , is to appeal to Rachel . 
She has been silent all this time , from motives which I can readily understand . 
It is impossible , after what has happened , to submit to that silence any longer . 
She must be persuaded to tell us , or she must be forced to tell us , on what grounds she bases her belief that you took the Moonstone . 
That is a very comforting opinion for ME , I said . 
I own I should like to know You would like to know how I can justify it , inter posed Mr. Bruff . 
I can tell you in two minutes . 
Understand , in the first place , that I look at this matter from a lawyer's point of view . 
It's a question of evidence , with me . 
The evidence breaks down , at the outset , on one important point . 
On what point ? You shall hear . 
I admit that the mark of the name proves the nightgown to be yours . 
I admit that the mark of the paint proves the nightgown to have made the smear on Rachel's door . 
As to this , pursued the lawyer taking up Rosanna Spearman's confession , I can understand that the letter is a distressing one to YOU . 
I can understand that you may hesitate to analyse it from a purely impartial point of view . 
But I am not in your position . 
I can bring my professional experience to bear on this document , just as I should bring it to bear on any other . 
I won't start any theory , at present , as to what she may or may not have done . 
What do you say to that ? Some such suspicion , I answered , crossed my own mind , as soon as I opened the letter . 
Exactly ! And when you had read the letter , you pitied the poor creature , and couldn't find it in your heart to suspect her . 
But assuming the proof to be possible , the vindication of your innocence would be no easy matter . 
We won't go into that , now . 
Let us wait and see whether Rachel hasn't suspected you on the evidence of the nightgown only . 
Good God , how coolly you talk of Rachel suspecting me ! I broke out . 
What right has she to suspect Me , on any evidence , of being a thief ? A very sensible question , my dear sir . 
Rather hotly put but well worth considering for all that . 
What puzzles you , puzzles me too . 
Search your memory , and tell me this . 
in your principles generally ? I started , in ungovernable agitation , to my feet . 
The lawyer's question reminded me , for the first time since I had left England , that something HAD happened . 
The nature of his business was this . 
to accept a loan from the keeper of a small restaurant in Paris , to whom I was well known as a customer . 
impossible to keep my engagement . 
I sent the man a bill . 
My name was unfortunately too well known on such documents he failed to negotiate it . 
He was a man of violent temper and he took the wrong way with me . 
High words passed on both sides and my aunt and Rachel were unfortunately in the next room , and heard us . 
Lady Verinder came in , and insisted on knowing what was the matter . 
The Frenchman produced his credentials , and declared me to be responsible for the ruin of a poor man , who had trusted in my honour . 
My aunt instantly paid him the money , and sent him off . 
She knew me better of course than to take the Frenchman's view of the transaction . 
Either her mother told her , or Rachel heard what passed I can't say which . 
She took her own romantic , high flown view of the matter . 
The breach between us lasted for the whole of the next day . 
The day after , I succeeded in making my peace , and thought no more of it . 
It would have its effect on her mind , he said gravely . 
And I wish , for your sake , the thing had not happened . 
However , we have discovered that there WAS a predisposing influence against you and there is one uncertainty cleared out of our way , at any rate . 
I see nothing more that we can do now . 
Our next step in this inquiry must be the step that takes us to Rachel . 
He rose , and began walking thoughtfully up and down the room . 
The grand difficulty is , he resumed , how to make her show her whole mind in this matter , without reserve . 
Have you any suggestions to offer ? I have made up my mind , Mr. Bruff , to speak to Rachel myself . 
You ! He suddenly stopped in his walk , and looked at me as if he thought I had taken leave of my senses . 
You , of all the people in the world ! He abruptly checked himself , and took another turn in the room . 
Wait a little , he said . 
In cases of this extraordinary kind , the rash way is sometimes the best way . 
He considered the question for a moment or two , under that new light , and ended boldly by a decision in my favour . 
Nothing venture , nothing have , the old gentleman resumed . 
You have a chance in your favour which I don't possess and you shall be the first to try the experiment . 
A chance in my favour ? I repeated , in the greatest surprise . 
Mr. Bruff's face softened , for the first time , into a smile . 
This is how it stands , he said . 
I tell you fairly , I don't trust your discretion , and I don't trust your temper . 
But I do trust in Rachel's still preserving , in some remote little corner of her heart , a certain perverse weakness for YOU . 
May I venture to suggest if nothing was said about me beforehand that I might see her here ? Cool ! said Mr. Bruff . 
With that one word of comment on the reply that I had made to him , he took another turn up and down the room . 
If you were anybody else but Franklin Blake , and if this matter was one atom less serious than it really is , I should refuse point blank . 
As things are , I firmly believe Rachel will live to thank me for turning traitor to her in my old age . 
Rachel shall be asked to spend the day here and you shall receive due notice of it . 
When ? To morrow ? To morrow won't give us time enough to get her answer . 
How shall I hear from you ? Stay at home all the morning and expect me to call on you . 
Of the day that followed , I have only to say that it was the longest day of my life . 
that guilt can look like innocence . 
I believe it to be infinitely the truer axiom of the two that innocence can look like guilt . 
I caused myself to be denied all day , to every visitor who called and I only ventured out under cover of the night . 
The next morning , Mr. Bruff surprised me at the breakfast table . 
He handed me a large key , and announced that he felt ashamed of himself for the first time in his life . 
Is she coming ? She is coming to day , to lunch and spend the afternoon with my wife and my girls . 
Are Mrs. Bruff , and your daughters , in the secret ? Inevitably . 
But women , as you may have observed , have no principles . 
My family don't feel my pangs of conscience . 
The end being to bring you and Rachel together again , my wife and daughters pass over the means employed to gain it , as composedly as if they were Jesuits . 
I am infinitely obliged to them . 
What is this key ? The key of the gate in my back garden wall . 
Be there at three this afternoon . 
Let yourself into the garden , and make your way in by the conservatory door . 
Cross the small drawing room , and open the door in front of you which leads into the music room . 
There , you will find Rachel and find her , alone . 
How can I thank you ! I will tell you how . 
Don't blame me for what happens afterwards . 
With those words , he went out . 
I had many weary hours still to wait through . 
To while away the time , I looked at my letters . 
Among them was a letter from Betteredge . 
To my surprise and disappointment , it began with an apology warning me to expect no news of any importance . 
In the next sentence the everlasting Ezra Jennings appeared again ! He had stopped Betteredge on the way out of the station , and had asked who I was . 
Informed on this point , he had mentioned having seen me to his master Mr. Candy . 
Mr. Candy hearing of this , had himself driven over to Betteredge , to express his regret at our having missed each other . 
He had a reason for wishing particularly to speak to me and when I was next in the neighbourhood of Frizinghall , he begged I would let him know . 
Apart from a few characteristic utterances of the Betteredge philosophy , this was the sum and substance of my correspondent's letter . 
The warm hearted , faithful old man acknowledged that he had written mainly for the pleasure of writing to me . 
I crumpled up the letter in my pocket , and forgot it the moment after , in the all absorbing interest of my coming interview with Rachel . 
As the clock of Hampstead church struck three , I put Mr. Bruff's key into the lock of the door in the wall . 
I looked furtively on either side of me suspicious of the presence of some unexpected witness in some unknown corner of the garden . 
Nothing appeared , to justify my apprehensions . 
The walks were , one and all , solitudes and the birds and the bees were the only witnesses . 
I passed through the garden entered the conservatory and crossed the small drawing room . 
As I laid my hand on the door opposite , I heard a few plaintive chords struck on the piano in the room within . 
She had often idled over the instrument in this way , when I was staying at her mother's house . 
I was obliged to wait a little , to steady myself . 
The past and present rose side by side , at that supreme moment and the contrast shook me . 
After the lapse of a minute , I roused my manhood , and opened the door . 
CHAPTER VII At the moment when I showed myself in the doorway , Rachel rose from the piano . 
I closed the door behind me . 
We confronted each other in silence , with the full length of the room between us . 
The movement she had made in rising appeared to be the one exertion of which she was capable . 
All use of every other faculty , bodily or mental , seemed to be merged in the mere act of looking at me . 
A fear crossed my mind that I had shown myself too suddenly . 
I advanced a few steps towards her . 
I said gently , Rachel ! The sound of my voice brought the life back to her limbs , and the colour to her face . 
She advanced , on her side , still without speaking . 
I saw nothing but the woman I loved coming nearer and nearer to me . 
She trembled she stood irresolute . 
I could resist it no longer I caught her in my arms , and covered her face with kisses . 
There was a moment when I thought the kisses were returned a moment when it seemed as if she , too might have forgotten . 
Almost before the idea could shape itself in my mind , her first voluntary action made me feel that she remembered . 
With a cry which was like a cry of horror with a strength which I doubt if I could have resisted if I had tried she thrust me back from her . 
I saw merciless anger in her eyes I saw merciless contempt on her lips . 
She looked me over , from head to foot , as she might have looked at a stranger who had insulted her . 
You coward ! she said . 
I remember the time , Rachel , I said , when you could have told me that I had offended you , in a worthier way than that . 
Something of the bitterness that I felt may have communicated itself to my voice . 
At the first words of my reply , her eyes , which had been turned away the moment before , looked back at me unwillingly . 
She answered in a low tone , with a sullen submission of manner which was quite new in my experience of her . 
Perhaps there is some excuse for me , she said . 
It seems a cowardly surprise , to surprise me into letting you kiss me . 
But that is only a woman's view . 
I ought to have known it couldn't be your view . 
I should have done better if I had controlled myself , and said nothing . 
The apology was more unendurable than the insult . 
The most degraded man living would have felt humiliated by it . 
If my honour was not in your hands , I said , I would leave you this instant , and never see you again . 
You have spoken of what I have done . 
What have I done ? What have you done ! YOU ask that question of ME ? I ask it . 
I have kept your infamy a secret , she answered . 
And I have suffered the consequences of concealing it . 
Have I no claim to be spared the insult of your asking me what you have done ? Is ALL sense of gratitude dead in you ? You were once a gentleman . 
You were once dear to my mother , and dearer still to me Her voice failed her . 
She dropped into a chair , and turned her back on me , and covered her face with her hands . 
I waited a little before I trusted myself to say any more . 
If you will not speak first , I said , I must . 
I have come here with something serious to say to you . 
Will you do me the common justice of listening while I say it ? She neither moved , nor answered . 
I made no second appeal to her I never advanced an inch nearer to her chair . 
With a pride which was as obstinate as her pride , I told her of my discovery at the Shivering Sand , and of all that had led to it . 
The narrative , of necessity , occupied some little time . 
From beginning to end , she never looked round at me , and she never uttered a word . 
My whole future depended , in all probability , on my not losing possession of myself at that moment . 
The time had come to put Mr. Bruff's theory to the test . 
In the breathless interest of trying that experiment , I moved round so as to place myself in front of her . 
I have a question to ask you , I said . 
It obliges me to refer again to a painful subject . 
Did Rosanna Spearman show you the nightgown . 
Yes , or No ? She started to her feet and walked close up to me of her own accord . 
Her eyes looked me searchingly in the face , as if to read something there which they had never read yet . 
Are you mad ? she asked . 
I said quietly , Rachel , will you answer my question ? She went on , without heeding me . 
I could control myself no longer . 
You have done me an infamous wrong ! I broke out hotly . 
You suspect me of stealing your Diamond . 
I have a right to know , and I WILL know , the reason why ! Suspect you ! she exclaimed , her anger rising with mine . 
Innocent as I was , I stood before her in silence . 
To her eyes , to any eyes , I must have looked like a man overwhelmed by the discovery of his own guilt . 
She drew back from the spectacle of my humiliation and of her triumph . 
The sudden silence that had fallen upon me seemed to frighten her . 
I spared you , at the time , she said . 
I would have spared you now , if you had not forced me to speak . 
She moved away as if to leave the room and hesitated before she got to the door . 
Why did you come here to humiliate yourself ? she asked . 
Why did you come here to humiliate me ? She went on a few steps , and paused once more . 
For God's sake , say something ! she exclaimed , passionately . 
I had possibly some confused idea of detaining her until she had told me more . 
I took her by the hand I tried to speak firmly and to the purpose . 
All I could say was , Rachel , you once loved me . 
She shuddered , and looked away from me . 
Her hand lay powerless and trembling in mine . 
Let go of it , she said faintly . 
My touch seemed to have the same effect on her which the sound of my voice had produced when I first entered the room . 
I seated her by the side of me . 
Rachel , I said , I can't explain the contradiction in what I am going to tell you . 
I can only speak the truth as you have spoken it . 
You saw me with your own eyes , you saw me take the Diamond . 
Before God who hears us , I declare that I now know I took it for the first time ! Do you doubt me still ? She had neither heeded nor heard me . 
Let go of my hand , she repeated faintly . 
That was her only answer . 
Her head sank on my shoulder and her hand unconsciously closed on mine , at the moment when she asked me to release it . 
I refrained from pressing the question . 
But there my forbearance stopped . 
My chance of ever holding up my head again among honest men depended on my chance of inducing her to make her disclosure complete . 
I own I kept possession of her hand . 
I own I spoke to her with all that I could summon back of the sympathy and confidence of the bygone time . 
I want to ask you something , I said . 
I want you to tell me everything that happened , from the time when we wished each other good night , to the time when you saw me take the Diamond . 
She lifted her head from my shoulder , and made an effort to release her hand . 
Oh , why go back to it ! she said . 
Why go back to it ! I will tell you why , Rachel . 
You are the victim , and I am the victim , of some monstrous delusion which has worn the mask of truth . 
If we look at what happened on the night of your birthday together , we may end in understanding each other yet . 
Her head dropped back on my shoulder . 
The tears gathered in her eyes , and fell slowly over her cheeks . 
You have not tried with me to help you . 
Those words seemed to awaken in her something of the hope which I felt myself when I uttered them . 
She replied to my questions with more than docility she exerted her intelligence she willingly opened her whole mind to me . 
Let us begin , I said , with what happened after we had wished each other good night . 
Did you go to bed ? or did you sit up ? I went to bed . 
Did you notice the time ? Was it late ? Not very . 
About twelve o'clock , I think . 
Did you fall asleep ? No. I couldn't sleep that night . 
You were restless ? I was thinking of you . 
The answer almost unmanned me . 
Something in the tone , even more than in the words , went straight to my heart . 
It was only after pausing a little first that I was able to go on . 
Had you any light in your room ? I asked . 
None until I got up again , and lit my candle . 
How long was that , after you had gone to bed ? About an hour after , I think . 
Did you leave your bedroom ? I was going to leave it . 
I had put on my dressing gown and I was going into my sitting room to get a book Had you opened your bedroom door ? I had just opened it . 
But you had not gone into the sitting room ? No I was stopped from going into it . 
What stopped you ? I saw a light , under the door and I heard footsteps approaching it . 
Were you frightened ? Not then . 
I knew my poor mother was a bad sleeper and I remembered that she had tried hard , that evening , to persuade me to let her take charge of my Diamond . 
What did you do ? I blew out my candle , so that she might think I was in bed . 
I was unreasonable , on my side I was determined to keep my Diamond in the place of my own choosing . 
After blowing out the candle , did you go back to bed ? I had no time to go back . 
At the moment when I blew the candle out , the sitting room door opened , and I saw You saw ? You . 
Dressed as usual ? No. In my nightgown ? In your nightgown with your bedroom candle in your hand . 
Could you see my face ? Yes . 
The candle in your hand showed it to me . 
Were my eyes open ? Yes . 
Did you notice anything strange in them ? Anything like a fixed , vacant expression ? Nothing of the sort . 
Your eyes were bright brighter than usual . 
You looked about in the room , as if you knew you were where you ought not to be , and as if you were afraid of being found out . 
Did you observe one thing when I came into the room did you observe how I walked ? You walked as you always do . 
You came in as far as the middle of the room and then you stopped and looked about you . 
What did you do , on first seeing me ? I could do nothing . 
I couldn't speak , I couldn't call out , I couldn't even move to shut my door . 
Could I see you , where you stood ? You might certainly have seen me . 
But you never looked towards me . 
It's useless to ask the question . 
I am sure you never saw me . 
Help me to keep as calm as I can . 
Go on to something else . 
She was right in every way , right . 
I went on to other things . 
When I was at the cabinet , my back must have been turned towards you . 
How did you see what I was doing ? When you moved , I moved . 
So as to see what I was about with my hands ? There are three glasses in my sitting room . 
As you stood there , I saw all that you did , reflected in one of them . 
What did you see ? You put your candle on the top of the cabinet . 
You opened , and shut , one drawer after another , until you came to the drawer in which I had put my Diamond . 
You looked at the open drawer for a moment . 
And then you put your hand in , and took the Diamond out . 
How do you know I took the Diamond out ? I saw your hand go into the drawer . 
And I saw the gleam of the stone between your finger and thumb , when you took your hand out . 
Did I look about me again , after that ? No. Did I leave the room immediately ? No. You stood quite still , for what seemed a long time . 
I saw your face sideways in the glass . 
You looked like a man thinking , and dissatisfied with his own thoughts . 
What happened next ? You roused yourself on a sudden , and you went straight out of the room . 
Did I close the door after me ? No. You passed out quickly into the passage , and left the door open . 
And then ? Then , your light disappeared , and the sound of your steps died away , and I was left alone in the dark . 
Did nothing happen from that time , to the time when the whole house knew that the Diamond was lost ? Nothing . 
Are you sure of that ? Might you not have been asleep a part of the time ? I never slept . 
I never went back to my bed . 
Nothing happened until Penelope came in , at the usual time in the morning . 
I dropped her hand , and rose , and took a turn in the room . 
Every question that I could put had been answered . 
Every detail that I could desire to know had been placed before me . 
And not a glimpse of light now , when I had appealed to Rachel herself , and had heard the hateful story of the night from her own lips . 
She was the first , this time , to break the silence . 
Well ? she said , you have asked , and I have answered . 
You have made me hope something from all this , because you hoped something from it . 
What have you to say now ? The tone in which she spoke warned me that my influence over her was a lost influence once more . 
We were to look at what happened on my birthday night , together , she went an and we were then to understand each other . 
Have we done that ? She waited pitilessly for my reply . 
In answering her I committed a fatal error I let the exasperating helplessness of my situation get the better of my self control . 
Rashly and uselessly , I reproached her for the silence which had kept me until that moment in ignorance of the truth . 
The few words I had said seemed to have lashed her on the instant into a frenzy of rage . 
Explain myself ! she repeated . 
She followed , and snatched the door out of my hand she closed it , and pointed back to the place that I had left . 
Not yet ! It seems that I owe a justification of my conduct to you . 
You shall stay and hear it . 
Or you shall stoop to the lowest infamy of all , and force your way out . 
It wrung my heart to see her it wrung my heart to hear her . 
I answered by a sign it was all I could do that I submitted myself to her will . 
The crimson flush of anger began to fade out of her face , as I went back , and took my chair in silence . 
She waited a little , and steadied herself . 
When she went on , but one sign of feeling was discernible in her . 
She spoke without looking at me . 
Her hands were fast clasped in her lap , and her eyes were fixed on the ground . 
I ought to have done you the common justice to explain myself , she said , repeating my own words . 
You shall see whether I did try to do you justice , or not . 
I told you just now that I never slept , and never returned to my bed , after you had left my sitting room . 
I refrained from alarming the house , and telling everybody what had happened as I ought to have done . 
I thought and thought and I ended in writing to you . 
I never received the letter . 
I know you never received it . 
Wait a little , and you shall hear why . 
My letter would have told you nothing openly . 
It would not have ruined you for life , if it had fallen into some other person's hands . 
You would have remembered the visit of the French lawyer , and you would have known what I referred to . 
, of the loan of as large a sum of money as I could get . 
And I would have got it ! she exclaimed , her colour beginning to rise again , and her eyes looking up at me once more . 
I would have pledged the Diamond myself , if I could have got the money in no other way ! In those words I wrote to you . 
Wait ! I did more than that . 
I arranged with Penelope to give you the letter when nobody was near . 
I planned to shut myself into my bedroom , and to have the sitting room left open and empty all the morning . 
And I hoped with all my heart and soul I hoped ! that you would take the opportunity , and put the Diamond back secretly in the drawer . 
She lifted her hand impatiently , and stopped me . 
In the rapid alternations of her temper , her anger was beginning to rise again . 
She got up from her chair , and approached me . 
I know what you are going to say , she went on . 
You are going to remind me again that you never received my letter . 
I can tell you why . 
For what reason ? I asked . 
For the best of reasons . 
I said to myself , He has played his vile farce before everybody else in the house . 
Let me try if he can play it before me . 
Somebody told me you were on the terrace . 
I went down to the terrace . 
I forced myself to look at you I forced myself to speak to you . 
Have you forgotten what I said ? I might have answered that I remembered every word of it . 
I know what I said for I considered it with myself , before I said it . 
I gave you one opportunity after another of owning the truth . 
I left nothing unsaid that I COULD say short of actually telling you that I knew you had committed the theft . 
You talk as if this was a misunderstanding which a few words might have set right ! Well ! the misunderstanding is at an end . 
Is the thing set right ? No ! the thing is just where it was . 
I don't believe you NOW ! I don't believe you found the nightgown , I don't believe in Rosanna Spearman's letter , I don't believe a word you have said . 
on an innocent man ! You fled to the Continent with your plunder the next morning ! After all that vileness , there was but one thing more you COULD do . 
I passed by her , and opened the door for the second time . 
For the second time with the frantic perversity of a roused woman she caught me by the arm , and barred my way out . 
Let me go , Rachel I said . 
It will be better for both of us . 
The hysterical passion swelled in her bosom her quickened convulsive breathing almost beat on my face , as she held me back at the door . 
Why did you come here ? she persisted , desperately . 
Sobs and tears burst from her . 
She struggled with them fiercely she held me more and more firmly . 
Any other woman living would shrink from the disgrace of touching him ! she exclaimed . 
You shall know that you have wronged me , yet , I said . 
Or you shall never see me again ! With those words , I left her . 
Franklin ! she said , I forgive you ! Oh , Franklin , Franklin ! we shall never meet again . 
The next moment , the worst bitterness of it was over . 
I was out in the garden again . 
I saw her , and heard her , no more . 
CHAPTER VIII Late that evening , I was surprised at my lodgings by a visit from Mr. Bruff . 
There was a noticeable change in the lawyer's manner . 
It had lost its usual confidence and spirit . 
He shook hands with me , for the first time in his life , in silence . 
Are you going back to Hampstead ? I asked , by way of saying something . 
I have just left Hampstead , he answered . 
I know , Mr. Franklin , that you have got at the truth at last . 
But , I tell you plainly , if I could have foreseen the price that was to be paid for it , I should have preferred leaving you in the dark . 
You have seen Rachel ? I have come here after taking her back to Portland Place it was impossible to let her return in the carriage by herself . 
I can hardly hold you responsible considering that you saw her in my house and by my permission for the shock that this unlucky interview has inflicted on her . 
All I can do is to provide against a repetition of the mischief . 
She is young she has a resolute spirit she will get over this , with time and rest to help her . 
I want to be assured that you will do nothing to hinder her recovery . 
I have your promise ? You have my promise . 
He put down his hat , and drew his chair nearer to mine . 
That's settled ! he said . 
Now , about the future your future , I mean . 
To my mind , the result of the extraordinary turn which the matter has now taken is briefly this . 
In the first place , we are sure that Rachel has told you the whole truth , as plainly as words can tell it . 
I don't blame Rachel , I said . 
I only regret that she could not prevail on herself to speak more plainly to me at the time . 
You might as well regret that Rachel is not somebody else , rejoined Mr. Bruff . 
Anyhow , it was not in Rachel's nature to do it . 
What answer can you make to that ? There is no answer to be made to it . 
Surely you forget , I said , that the whole thing is essentially a matter of the past so far as I am concerned ? Answer me this , retorted Mr. Bruff . 
Is the Moonstone at the bottom of all the mischief or is it not ? It is of course . 
What do we believe was done with the Moonstone , when it was taken to London ? It was pledged to Mr. Luker . 
We know that you are not the person who pledged it . 
Do we know who did ? No. Where do we believe the Moonstone to be now ? Deposited in the keeping of Mr. Luker's bankers . 
We are already in the month of June . 
a year will have elapsed from the time when we believe the jewel to have been pledged . 
There is a chance to say the least that the person who pawned it , may be prepared to redeem it when the year's time has expired . 
If he redeems it , Mr. Luker must himself according to the terms of his own arrangement take the Diamond out of his banker's hands . 
that the idea was a new one , at any rate . 
It's Mr. Murthwaite's idea quite as much as mine , said Mr. Bruff . 
It might have never entered my head , but for a conversation we had together some time since . 
If Mr. Murthwaite is right , the Indians are likely to be on the lookout at the bank , towards the end of the month too and something serious may come of it . 
What comes of it doesn't matter to you and me except as it may help us to lay our hands on the mysterious Somebody who pawned the Diamond . 
for the position in which you stand at this moment and that person alone can set you right in Rachel's estimation . 
I can't deny , I said , that the plan you propose meets the difficulty in a way that is very daring , and very ingenious , and very new . 
But But you have an objection to make ? Yes . 
My objection is , that your proposal obliges us to wait . 
As I reckon the time , it requires you to wait about a fortnight more or less . 
Is that so very long ? It's a life time , Mr. Bruff , in such a situation as mine . 
My existence will be simply unendurable to me , unless I do something towards clearing my character at once . 
Well , well , I understand that . 
Have you thought yet of what you can do ? I have thought of consulting Sergeant Cuff . 
He has retired from the police . 
It's useless to expect the Sergeant to help you . 
I know where to find him and I can but try . 
Try , said Mr. Bruff , after a moment's consideration . 
The case has assumed such an extraordinary aspect since Sergeant Cuff's time , that you may revive his interest in the inquiry . 
Try , and let me hear the result . 
Mr. Bruff smiled , and took up his hat . 
Tell Sergeant Cuff , he rejoined , that I say the discovery of the truth depends on the discovery of the person who pawned the Diamond . 
And let me hear what the Sergeant's experience says to that . 
Early the next morning , I set forth for the little town of Dorking the place of Sergeant Cuff's retirement , as indicated to me by Betteredge . 
Inquiring at the hotel , I received the necessary directions for finding the Sergeant's cottage . 
The gate , ornamented at the upper part by smartly painted trellis work , was locked . 
He had started , only the day before , on a journey to Ireland . 
Has he gone there on business ? I asked . 
He has only one business now , sir , she said and that's roses . 
Some great man's gardener in Ireland has found out something new in the growing of roses and Mr. Cuff's away to inquire into it . 
Do you know when he will be back ? It's quite uncertain , sir . 
Mr. Cuff said he should come back directly , or be away some time , just according as he found the new discovery worth nothing , or worth looking into . 
If you have any message to leave for him , I'll take care , sir , that he gets it . 
I gave her my card , having first written on it in pencil I have something to say about the Moonstone . 
Let me hear from you as soon as you get back . 
That done , there was nothing left but to submit to circumstances , and return to London . 
To speak seriously , it is perhaps possible that my German training was in some degree responsible for the labyrinth of useless speculations in which I now involved myself . 
For the greater part of the night , I sat smoking , and building up theories , one more profoundly improbable than another . 
When I did get to sleep , my waking fancies pursued me in dreams . 
to consider any sort of thing as existing at all . 
How long I might have remained lost in the mist of my own metaphysics , if I had been left to extricate myself , it is impossible for me to say . 
As the event proved , accident came to my rescue , and happily delivered me . 
I happened to wear , that morning , the same coat which I had worn on the day of my interview with Rachel . 
Searching for something else in one of the pockets , I came upon a crumpled piece of paper , and , taking it out , found Betteredge's forgotten letter in my hand . 
It seemed hard on my good old friend to leave him without a reply . 
I went to my writing table , and read his letter again . 
A letter which has nothing of the slightest importance in it , is not always an easy letter to answer . 
Betteredge's present effort at corresponding with me came within this category . 
, into the waste paper basket and then and there , wrote my answer to Betteredge . 
It was a perfectly commonplace letter but it had one excellent effect on me . 
The effort of writing a few sentences , in plain English , completely cleared my mind of the cloudy nonsense which had filled it since the previous day . 
Looking back at the social event of the birthday dinner , I found myself brought to a standstill at the outset of the inquiry . 
I was not even capable of accurately remembering the number of the guests who had sat at the same table with me . 
I believe other people , in a similar situation , would have reasoned as I did . 
When the pursuit of our own interests causes us to become objects of inquiry to ourselves , we are naturally suspicious of what we don't know . 
Unlikely as it may seem , I had now actually groped my way to the root of the matter at last . 
All I wanted was a hint to guide me in the right direction at starting . 
This I could easily obtain from Gabriel Betteredge . 
I determined to go back to Yorkshire on that day , and to begin my contemplated investigation the next morning . 
It was just too late to start by the train which left London before noon . 
There was no alternative but to wait , nearly three hours , for the departure of the next train . 
Was there anything I could do in London , which might usefully occupy this interval of time ? My thoughts went back again obstinately to the birthday dinner . 
But the larger proportion was not all . 
Some few of us were not regular residents in the country . 
I myself was one of the few . 
Godfrey Ablewhite was a third . 
Mr. Bruff no I called to mind that business had prevented Mr. Bruff from making one of the party . 
Had any ladies been present , whose usual residence was in London ? I could only remember Miss Clack as coming within this latter category . 
However , here were three of the guests , at any rate , whom it was clearly advisable for me to see before I left town . 
Mr. Bruff proved to be too busy to give me more than a minute of his valuable time . 
In that minute , however , he contrived to dispose in the most discouraging manner of all the questions I had to put to him . 
In the first place , he considered my newly discovered method of finding a clue to the mystery as something too purely fanciful to be seriously discussed . 
In the hall , I met with one of the members , who was an old friend of my cousin's , and who was also an acquaintance of my own . 
His suit had prospered , and his marriage had been considered as a settled and certain thing . 
As some compensation for this second matrimonial disaster , Godfrey had soon afterwards found himself the object of fond pecuniary remembrance , on the part of one of his many admirers . 
had bequeathed to the admirable and meritorious Godfrey a legacy of five thousand pounds . 
If I wanted to see him , it would be advisable to lose no time in paying my contemplated visit . 
I went , then and there , to pay my visit . 
The same fatality which had made me just one day too late in calling on Sergeant Cuff , made me again one day too late in calling on Godfrey . 
He had left London , on the previous morning , by the tidal train , for Dover . 
He was to cross to Ostend and his servant believed he was going on to Brussels . 
The time of his return was rather uncertain but I might be sure he would be away at least three months . 
I went back to my lodgings a little depressed in spirits . 
My last hopes now rested on Betteredge , and on the friends of the late Lady Verinder whom I might still find living in the neighbourhood of Rachel's country house . 
On this occasion , I travelled straight to Frizinghall the town being now the central point in my field of inquiry . 
I arrived too late in the evening to be able to communicate with Betteredge . 
The next morning , I sent a messenger with a letter , requesting him to join me at the hotel , at his earliest convenience . 
These were my relatives , the Ablewhites , and Mr. Candy . 
The doctor had expressed a special wish to see me , and the doctor lived in the next street . 
So to Mr. Candy I went first . 
After what Betteredge had told me , I naturally anticipated finding traces in the doctor's face of the severe illness from which he had suffered . 
But I was utterly unprepared for such a change as I saw in him when he entered the room and shook hands with me . 
His eyes were dim his hair had turned completely grey his face was wizen his figure had shrunk . 
The man was a wreck but his clothes and his jewellery in cruel mockery of the change in him were as gay and as gaudy as ever . 
I have often thought of you , Mr. Blake , he said and I am heartily glad to see you again at last . 
On the journey to Frizinghall I had arranged what my explanation was to be and I seized the opportunity now offered to me of trying the effect of it on Mr. Candy . 
I was in Yorkshire , the other day , and I am in Yorkshire again now , on rather a romantic errand , I said . 
It is a matter , Mr. Candy , in which the late Lady Verinder's friends all took some interest . 
Among the obstacles in my way , there is the necessity of collecting again all the evidence which was discovered at the time , and more if possible . 
There are peculiarities in this case which make it desirable to revive my recollection of everything that happened in the house , on the evening of Miss Verinder's birthday . 
The little doctor sat restlessly picking at the points of his fingers all the time I was speaking . 
His dim watery eyes were fixed on my face with an expression of vacant and wistful inquiry very painful to see . 
What he was thinking of , it was impossible to divine . 
The one thing clearly visible was that I had failed , after the first two or three words , in fixing his attention . 
The only chance of recalling him to himself appeared to lie in changing the subject . 
I tried a new topic immediately . 
So much , I said , gaily , for what brings me to Frizinghall ! Now , Mr. Candy , it's your turn . 
You sent me a message by Gabriel Betteredge He left off picking at his fingers , and suddenly brightened up . 
Yes ! yes ! yes ! he exclaimed eagerly . 
That's it ! I sent you a message ! And Betteredge duly communicated it by letter , I went on . 
You had something to say to me , the next time I was in your neighbourhood . 
Well , Mr. Candy , here I am ! Here you are ! echoed the doctor . 
And Betteredge was quite right . 
I had something to say to you . 
Betteredge is a wonderful man . 
What a memory ! At his age , what a memory ! He dropped back into silence , and began picking at his fingers again . 
It's a long time since we met , I said . 
We last saw each other at the last birthday dinner my poor aunt was ever to give . 
That's it ! cried Mr. Candy . 
The birthday dinner ! He started impulsively to his feet , and looked at me . 
A deep flush suddenly overspread his faded face , and he abruptly sat down again , as if conscious of having betrayed a weakness which he would fain have concealed . 
It was plain , pitiably plain , that he was aware of his own defect of memory , and that he was bent on hiding it from the observation of his friends . 
Thus far he had appealed to my compassion only . 
But the words he had just said few as they were roused my curiosity instantly to the highest pitch . 
The birthday dinner had already become the one event in the past , at which I looked back with strangely mixed feelings of hope and distrust . 
And here was the birthday dinner unmistakably proclaiming itself as the subject on which Mr. Candy had something important to say to me ! I attempted to help him out once more . 
It's nearly a year now , I said , since we sat at that pleasant table . 
I require no memorandum , Mr. Blake , he said , stiffly enough . 
is to be thoroughly depended on ! It is needless to say that I declined to understand that he was offended with me . 
I wish I could say the same of my memory , I answered . 
When I try to think of matters that are a year old , I seldom find my remembrance as vivid as I could wish it to be . 
Take the dinner at Lady Verinder's , for instance Mr. Candy brightened up again , the moment the allusion passed my lips . 
Ah ! the dinner , the dinner at Lady Verinder's ! he exclaimed , more eagerly than ever . 
I have got something to say to you about that . 
His eyes looked at me again with the painful expression of inquiry , so wistful , so vacant , so miserably helpless to see . 
He was evidently trying hard , and trying in vain , to recover the lost recollection . 
It was a very pleasant dinner , he burst out suddenly , with an air of saying exactly what he wanted to say . 
It was so distressing that I at once shifted the talk deeply as I was interested in his recovering the lost remembrance to topics of local interest . 
Here , he got on glibly enough . 
Trumpery little scandals and quarrels in the town , some of them as much as a month old , appeared to recur to his memory readily . 
He chattered on , with something of the smooth gossiping fluency of former times . 
until the clock on the chimney piece told me that my visit had been prolonged beyond half an hour . 
Having now some right to consider the sacrifice as complete , I rose to take leave . 
As we shook hands , Mr. Candy reverted to the birthday festival of his own accord . 
I am so glad we have met again , he said . 
I had it on my mind I really had it on my mind , Mr. Blake , to speak to you . 
The effort of remembering that he wanted to speak to me was , but too evidently , the only effort that his enfeebled memory was now able to achieve . 
CHAPTER IX The doctor's pretty housemaid stood waiting for me , with the street door open in her hand . 
Pouring brightly into the hall , the morning light fell full on the face of Mr. Candy's assistant when I turned , and looked at him . 
It was impossible to dispute Betteredge's assertion that the appearance of Ezra Jennings , speaking from a popular point of view , was against him . 
And yet feeling this as I certainly did it is not to be denied that Ezra Jennings made some inscrutable appeal to my sympathies , which I found it impossible to resist . 
Are you walking my way , Mr. Jennings ? I said , observing that he held his hat in his hand . 
I am going to call on my aunt , Mrs. Ablewhite . 
Ezra Jennings replied that he had a patient to see , and that he was walking my way . 
We left the house together . 
The poor wretch was evidently no favourite in the house . 
Out of the house , I had Betteredge's word for it that he was unpopular everywhere . 
What a life ! I thought to myself , as we descended the doctor's doorsteps . 
Having already referred to Mr. Candy's illness on his side , Ezra Jennings now appeared determined to leave it to me to resume the subject . 
His silence said significantly , It's your turn now . 
I , too , had my reasons for referring to the doctor's illness and I readily accepted the responsibility of speaking first . 
His memory of events , at that past time , is hopelessly enfeebled , said Ezra Jennings . 
It is almost to be deplored , poor fellow , that even the wreck of it remains . 
He is painfully conscious of his own deficiency , and painfully anxious , as you must have seen , to hide it from observation . 
If he could only have recovered in a complete state of oblivion as to the past , he would have been a happier man . 
I am afraid it cannot truly be said of ALL . 
The little that he had said , thus far , had been sufficient to convince me that I was speaking to a gentleman . 
I believe I have a strong interest , I said , in tracing the lost remembrance which Mr. Candy was unable to recall . 
Mr. Candy's memory is beyond the reach of assistance , he said . 
I have tried to help it often enough since his recovery , to be able to speak positively on that point . 
This disappointed me and I owned it . 
I confess you led me to hope for a less discouraging answer than that , I said . 
It may not , perhaps , be a final answer , Mr. Blake . 
It may be possible to trace Mr. Candy's lost recollection , without the necessity of appealing to Mr. Candy himself . 
Indeed ? Is it an indiscretion , on my part , to ask how ? By no means . 
My only difficulty in answering your question , is the difficulty of explaining myself . 
My eagerness seemed to amuse perhaps , I might rather say , to please him . 
We had by this time left the last houses in the town behind us . 
Ezra Jennings stopped for a moment , and picked some wild flowers from the hedge by the roadside . 
How beautiful they are ! he said , simply , showing his little nosegay to me . 
And how few people in England seem to admire them as they deserve ! You have not always been in England ? I said . 
No. I was born , and partly brought up , in one of our colonies . 
My father was an Englishman but my mother We are straying away from our subject , Mr. Blake and it is my fault . 
The truth is , I have associations with these modest little hedgeside flowers It doesn't matter we were speaking of Mr. Candy . 
To Mr. Candy let us return . 
He had suffered as few men suffer and there was the mixture of some foreign race in his English blood . 
You have heard , I dare say , of the original cause of Mr. Candy's illness ? he resumed . 
The night of Lady Verinder's dinner party was a night of heavy rain . 
My employer drove home through it in his gig , and reached the house wetted to the skin . 
He found an urgent message from a patient , waiting for him and he most unfortunately went at once to visit the sick person , without stopping to change his clothes . 
I was myself professionally detained , that night , by a case at some distance from Frizinghall . 
When I got back the next morning , I found Mr. Candy's groom waiting in great alarm to take me to his master's room . 
By that time the mischief was done the illness had set in . 
The illness has only been described to me , in general terms , as a fever , I said . 
I can add nothing which will make the description more accurate , answered Ezra Jennings . 
From first to last the fever assumed no specific form . 
I sent at once to two of Mr. Candy's medical friends in the town , both physicians , to come and give me their opinion of the case . 
They agreed with me that it looked serious but they both strongly dissented from the view I took of the treatment . 
We differed entirely in the conclusions which we drew from the patient's pulse . 
The two doctors , arguing from the rapidity of the beat , declared that a lowering treatment was the only treatment to be adopted . 
The two doctors were for keeping him on gruel , lemonade , barley water , and so on . 
I was for giving him champagne , or brandy , ammonia , and quinine . 
A serious difference of opinion , as you see ! a difference between two physicians of established local repute , and a stranger who was only an assistant in the house . 
For the first few days , I had no choice but to give way to my elders and betters the patient steadily sinking all the time . 
I made a second attempt to appeal to the plain , undeniably plain , evidence of the pulse . 
Its rapidity was unchecked , and its feebleness had increased . 
The two doctors took offence at my obstinacy . 
They said , Mr. Jennings , either we manage this case , or you manage it . 
Which is it to be ? I said , Gentlemen , give me five minutes to consider , and that plain question shall have a plain reply . 
When the time expired , I was ready with my answer . 
I said , You positively refuse to try the stimulant treatment ? They refused in so many words . 
I mean to try it at once , gentlemen . 
Try it , Mr. Jennings , and we withdraw from the case . 
I sent down to the cellar for a bottle of champagne and I administered half a tumbler full of it to the patient with my own hand . 
The two physicians took up their hats in silence , and left the house . 
You had assumed a serious responsibility , I said . 
In your place , I am afraid I should have shrunk from it . 
In my place , Mr. Blake , you would have remembered that Mr. Candy had taken you into his employment , under circumstances which made you his debtor for life . 
If I had been a happy man , if I had led a prosperous life , I believe I should have sunk under the task I had imposed on myself . 
I took an interval in the middle of the day , when my patient's condition was at its best , for the repose I needed . 
For the rest of the four and twenty hours , as long as his life was in danger , I never left his bedside . 
Towards sunset , as usual in such cases , the delirium incidental to the fever came on . 
It is then that Death gathers in his human harvest most abundantly . 
It was then that Death and I fought our fight over the bed , which should have the man who lay on it . 
I never hesitated in pursuing the treatment on which I had staked everything . 
When wine failed , I tried brandy . 
When the other stimulants lost their influence , I doubled the dose . 
THEN , I knew that I had saved him and then I own I broke down . 
I laid the poor fellow's wasted hand back on the bed , and burst out crying . 
His tone and manner , from beginning to end , showed him to be especially , almost morbidly , anxious not to set himself up as an object of interest to me . 
You may well ask , why I have wearied you with all these details ? he went on . 
It is the only way I can see , Mr. Blake , of properly introducing to you what I have to say next . 
My work will probably never be finished and it will certainly never be published . 
I told you he was delirious , I think ? And I mentioned the time at which his delirium came on ? Yes . 
Well , I had reached a section of my book , at that time , which touched on this same question of delirium . 
I won't trouble you at any length with my theory on the subject I will confine myself to telling you only what it is your present interest to know . 
Poor Mr. Candy's illness gave me an opportunity of putting this doubt to the test . 
I understand the art of writing in shorthand and I was able to take down the patient's wanderings , exactly as they fell from his lips . 
Do you see , Mr. Blake , what I am coming to at last ? I saw it clearly , and waited with breathless interest to hear more . 
I then treated the result thus obtained , on something like the principle which one adopts in putting together a child's 'puzzle . 
It is all confusion to begin with but it may be all brought into order and shape , if you can only find the right way . 
a confirmation of the theory that I held . 
One word ! I interposed eagerly . 
Did my name occur in any of his wanderings ? You shall hear , Mr. Blake . 
For nearly the whole of one night , Mr. Candy's mind was occupied with SOMETHING between himself and you . 
I have got the broken words , as they dropped from his lips , on one sheet of paper . 
And I have got the links of my own discovering which connect those words together , on another sheet of paper . 
Let us go back directly , and look at the papers ! Quite impossible , Mr. Blake . 
Why ? Put yourself in my position for a moment , said Ezra Jennings . 
My conduct in such a delicate matter as you describe , I replied , would depend greatly on whether the disclosure was of a nature to compromise my friend or not . 
I have disposed of all necessity for considering that side of the question , long since , said Ezra Jennings . 
Wherever my notes included anything which Mr. Candy might have wished to keep secret , those notes have been destroyed . 
My manuscript experiments at my friend's bedside , include nothing , now , which he would have hesitated to communicate to others , if he had recovered the use of his memory . 
Strongly as Ezra Jennings had intensified the first impulsive interest which I had felt in him , he had not overcome my unconquerable reluctance to disclose the degrading position in which I stood . 
Ezra Jennings listened patiently , even anxiously , until I had done . 
I am sorry to have raised your expectations , Mr. Blake , only to disappoint them , he said . 
Throughout the whole period of Mr. Candy's illness , from first to last , not one word about the Diamond escaped his lips . 
The matter with which I heard him connect your name has , I can assure you , no discoverable relation whatever with the loss or the recovery of Miss Verinder's jewel . 
We arrived , as he said those words , at a place where the highway along which we had been walking branched off into two roads . 
One led to Mr. Ablewhite's house , and the other to a moorland village some two or three miles off . 
Ezra Jennings stopped at the road which led to the village . 
My way lies in this direction , he said . 
I am really and truly sorry , Mr. Blake , that I can be of no use to you . 
His voice told me that he spoke sincerely . 
His soft brown eyes rested on me for a moment with a look of melancholy interest . 
He bowed , and went , without another word , on his way to the village . 
He turned , after walking on a little way , and looked back . 
Seeing me still standing at the place where we had parted , he stopped , as if doubting whether I might not wish to speak to him again . 
I suspect I am one of the rashest of existing men . 
I called him back and then I said to myself , Now there is no help for it . 
I must tell him the truth ! He retraced his steps directly . 
I advanced along the road to meet him . 
Mr. Jennings , I said . 
I have not treated you quite fairly . 
My interest in tracing Mr. Candy's lost recollection is not the interest of recovering the Moonstone . 
A serious personal matter is at the bottom of my visit to Yorkshire . 
I have but one excuse for not having dealt frankly with you in this matter . 
It is more painful to me than I can say , to mention to anybody what my position really is . 
Ezra Jennings looked at me with the first appearance of embarrassment which I had seen in him yet . 
I have no right , Mr. Blake , and no wish , he said , to intrude myself into your private affairs . 
Allow me to ask your pardon , on my side , for having put you to a painful test . 
You have a perfect right , I rejoined , to fix the terms on which you feel justified in revealing what you heard at Mr. Candy's bedside . 
I understand and respect the delicacy which influences you in this matter . 
I have a word to say , which must be said before you go any farther . 
I looked at him in astonishment . 
The grip of some terrible emotion seemed to have seized him , and shaken him to the soul . 
Before you place any confidence in me , he went on , you ought to know , and you MUST know , under what circumstances I have been received into Mr. Candy's house . 
I don't profess , sir , to tell my story to any man . 
My story will die with me . 
All I ask , is to be permitted to tell you , what I have told Mr. Candy . 
If you are still in the mind , when you have heard that , to say what you have proposed to say , you will command my attention and command my services . 
Shall we walk on ? The suppressed misery in his face silenced me . 
I answered his question by a sign . 
After advancing a few hundred yards , Ezra Jennings stopped at a gap in the rough stone wall which shut off the moor from the road , at this part of it . 
Do you mind resting a little , Mr. Blake ? he asked . 
I am not what I was and some things shake me . 
The clouds had gathered , within the last half hour . 
The light was dull the distance was dim . 
The lovely face of Nature met us , soft and still colourless met us without a smile . 
We sat down in silence . 
Ezra Jennings laid aside his hat , and passed his hand wearily over his forehead , wearily through his startling white and black hair . 
He tossed his little nosegay of wild flowers away from him , as if the remembrances which it recalled were remembrances which hurt him now . 
Mr. Blake ! he said , suddenly . 
You are in bad company . 
The cloud of a horrible accusation has rested on me for years . 
I tell you the worst at once . 
I am a man whose life is a wreck , and whose character is gone . 
Don't commit yourself to expressions of sympathy which you may afterwards wish to recall . 
I have mentioned an accusation which has rested on me for years . 
There are circumstances in connexion with it that tell against me . 
I cannot bring myself to acknowledge what the accusation is . 
And I am incapable , perfectly incapable , of proving my innocence . 
I can only assert my innocence . 
I assert it , sir , on my oath , as a Christian . 
It is useless to appeal to my honour as a man . 
I looked round at him . 
He never looked at me in return . 
His whole being seemed to be absorbed in the agony of recollecting , and in the effort to speak . 
But the harm is done the wrong is beyond all remedy . 
I decline to weary or distress you , sir , if I can help it . 
At the outset of my career in this country , the vile slander to which I have referred struck me down at once and for ever . 
I resigned my aspirations in my profession obscurity was the only hope left for me . 
I parted with the woman I loved how could I condemn her to share my disgrace ? A medical assistant's place offered itself , in a remote corner of England . 
It promised me peace it promised me obscurity , as I thought . 
Evil report , with time and chance to help it , travels patiently , and travels far . 
The accusation from which I had fled followed me . 
I got warning of its approach . 
I was able to leave my situation voluntarily , with the testimonials that I had earned . 
They got me another situation in another remote district . 
Time passed again and again the slander that was death to my character found me out . 
On this occasion I had no warning . 
My employer said , Mr. Jennings , I have no complaint to make against you but you must set yourself right , or leave me . 
I had but one choice I left him . 
It's useless to dwell on what I suffered after that . 
I am only forty years old now . 
Look at my face , and let it tell for me the story of some miserable years . 
It ended in my drifting to this place , and meeting with Mr. Candy . 
I referred him , on the question of capacity , to my last employer . 
The question of character remained . 
I told him what I have told you and more . 
I warned him that there were difficulties in the way , even if he believed me . 
He answered , I don't do things by halves I believe you , and I pity you . 
If you will risk what may happen , I will risk it too . 
that nothing will happen now to make him regret it . 
The slander has died out ? I said . 
The slander is as active as ever . 
But when it follows me here , it will come too late . 
You will have left the place ? No , Mr. Blake I shall be dead . 
For ten years past I have suffered from an incurable internal complaint . 
I want to provide for a person very dear to me whom I shall never see again . 
My own little patrimony is hardly sufficient to make her independent of the world . 
The one effectual palliative in my case , is opium . 
To that all potent and all merciful drug I am indebted for a respite of many years from my sentence of death . 
But even the virtues of opium have their limit . 
The progress of the disease has gradually forced me from the use of opium to the abuse of it . 
I am feeling the penalty at last . 
My nervous system is shattered my nights are nights of horror . 
The end is not far off now . 
Let it come I have not lived and worked in vain . 
The little sum is nearly made up and I have the means of completing it , if my last reserves of life fail me sooner than I expect . 
I hardly know how I have wandered into telling you this . 
I don't think I am mean enough to appeal to your pity . 
There is no disguising , Mr. Blake , that you interest me . 
I have attempted to make my poor friend's loss of memory the means of bettering my acquaintance with you . 
I have speculated on the chance of your feeling a passing curiosity about what he wanted to say , and of my being able to satisfy it . 
Is there no excuse for my intruding myself on you ? Perhaps there is some excuse . 
A man who has lived as I have lived has his bitter moments when he ponders over human destiny . 
You have youth , health , riches , a place in the world , a prospect before you . 
You , and such as you , show me the sunny side of human life , and reconcile me with the world that I am leaving , before I go . 
However this talk between us may end , I shall not forget that you have done me a kindness in doing that . 
It rests with you , sir , to say what you proposed saying , or to wish me good morning . 
I had but one answer to make to that appeal . 
Without a moment's hesitation I told him the truth , as unreservedly as I have told it in these pages . 
He started to his feet , and looked at me with breathless eagerness as I approached the leading incident of my story . 
It is certain that I went into the room , I said it is certain that I took the Diamond . 
I can only meet those two plain facts by declaring that , do what I might , I did it without my own knowledge Ezra Jennings caught me excitedly by the arm . 
You have suggested more to me than you suppose . 
Have you ever been accustomed to the use of opium ? I never tasted it in my life . 
Were your nerves out of order , at this time last year ? Were you unusually restless and irritable ? Yes . 
Did you sleep badly ? Wretchedly . 
Many nights I never slept at all . 
Was the birthday night an exception ? Try , and remember . 
Did you sleep well on that one occasion ? I do remember ! I slept soundly . 
He dropped my arm as suddenly as he had taken it and looked at me with the air of a man whose mind was relieved of the last doubt that rested on it . 
This is a marked day in your life , and in mine , he said , gravely . 
Wait ! that is not all . 
I am firmly persuaded that I can prove you to have been unconscious of what you were about , when you entered the room and took the Diamond . 
Give me time to think , and time to question you . 
Before Ezra Jennings could answer me , he was hailed from the high road by a man , in great agitation , who had been evidently on the look out for him . 
I am coming , he called back I am coming as fast as I can ! He turned to me . 
There is an urgent case waiting for me at the village yonder I ought to have been there half an hour since I must attend to it at once . 
Give me two hours from this time , and call at Mr. Candy's again and I will engage to be ready for you . 
How am I to wait ! I exclaimed , impatiently . 
Can't you quiet my mind by a word of explanation before we part ? This is far too serious a matter to be explained in a hurry , Mr. Blake . 
I am not wilfully trying your patience I should only be adding to your suspense , if I attempted to relieve it as things are now . 
At Frizinghall , sir , in two hours' time ! The man on the high road hailed him again . 
He hurried away , and left me . 
CHAPTER X How the interval of suspense in which I was now condemned might have affected other men in my position , I cannot pretend to say . 
The influence of the two hours' probation upon my temperament was simply this . 
In this frame of mind , I not only abandoned my contemplated visit to Mrs. Ablewhite I even shrank from encountering Gabriel Betteredge himself . 
I requested him , in the interval , to order his dinner at the usual hour , and to amuse himself as he pleased . 
He had , as I well knew , hosts of friends in Frizinghall and he would be at no loss how to fill up his time until I returned to the hotel . 
I found Ezra Jennings ready and waiting for me . 
He was sitting alone in a bare little room , which communicated by a glazed door with a surgery . 
Hideous coloured diagrams of the ravages of hideous diseases decorated the barren buff coloured walls . 
In any other place , these everyday sounds might have spoken pleasantly of the everyday world outside . 
Here , they came in as intruders on a silence which nothing but human suffering had the privilege to disturb . 
I make no apology , Mr. Blake , for the place in which I am receiving you , he said . 
It is the only room in the house , at this hour of the day , in which we can feel quite sure of being left undisturbed . 
Here are my papers ready for you and here are two books to which we may have occasion to refer , before we have done . 
Bring your chair to the table , and we shall be able to consult them together . 
I drew up to the table and Ezra Jennings handed me his manuscript notes . 
They consisted of two large folio leaves of paper . 
One leaf contained writing which only covered the surface at intervals . 
The other presented writing , in red and black ink , which completely filled the page from top to bottom . 
In the irritated state of my curiosity , at that moment , I laid aside the second sheet of paper in despair . 
Have some mercy on me ! I said . 
Tell me what I am to expect , before I attempt to read this . 
You have already told me , he said , that you have never to your knowledge tasted opium in your life . 
To my knowledge , I repeated . 
You will understand directly why I speak with that reservation . 
You are not aware of ever having taken opium . 
At this time , last year , you were suffering from nervous irritation , and you slept wretchedly at night . 
On the night of the birthday , however , there was an exception to the rule you slept soundly . 
Am I right , so far ? Quite right ! Can you assign any cause for the nervous suffering , and your want of sleep ? I can assign no cause . 
Old Betteredge made a guess at the cause , I remember . 
But that is hardly worth mentioning . 
Anything is worth mentioning in such a case as this . 
Betteredge attributed your sleeplessness to something . 
To what ? To my leaving off smoking . 
Had you been an habitual smoker ? Yes . 
Did you leave off the habit suddenly ? Yes . 
Betteredge was perfectly right , Mr. Blake . 
When smoking is a habit a man must have no common constitution who can leave it off suddenly without some temporary damage to his nervous system . 
Your sleepless nights are accounted for , to my mind . 
My next question refers to Mr. Candy . 
The details there presented of the dispute so little had I thought of it afterwards entirely failed to recur to my memory . 
There is one thing more , said Ezra Jennings , which it is very important I should know . 
Had you any reason for feeling any special anxiety about the Diamond , at this time last year ? I had the strongest reasons for feeling anxiety about the Diamond . 
I knew it to be the object of a conspiracy and I was warned to take measures for Miss Verinder's protection , as the possessor of the stone . 
Ezra Jennings took up his notes from the table , and placed them in my hands . 
You will find First , that you entered Miss Verinder's sitting room and took the Diamond , in a state of trance , produced by opium . 
Secondly , that the opium was given to you by Mr. Candy without your own knowledge as a practical refutation of the opinions which you had expressed to him at the birthday dinner . 
I sat with the papers in my hand completely stupefied . 
Try and forgive poor Mr. Candy , said the assistant gently . 
He has done dreadful mischief , I own but he has done it innocently . 
Miss Verinder would have heard of it , and Miss Verinder would have questioned him and the truth which has laid hidden for a year would have been discovered in a day . 
I began to regain my self possession . 
Mr. Candy is beyond the reach of my resentment , I said angrily . 
But the trick that he played me is not the less an act of treachery , for all that . 
I may forgive , but I shall not forget it . 
Every medical man commits that act of treachery , Mr. Blake , in the course of his practice . 
is by no means confined to the lower and less cultivated classes . 
Every doctor in large practice finds himself , every now and then , obliged to deceive his patients , as Mr. Candy deceived you . 
I don't defend the folly of playing you a trick under the circumstances . 
I only plead with you for a more accurate and more merciful construction of motives . 
How was it done ? I asked . 
Who gave me the laudanum , without my knowing it myself ? I am not able to tell you . 
Nothing relating to that part of the matter dropped from Mr. Candy's lips , all through his illness . 
Perhaps your own memory may point to the person to be suspected . 
No. It is useless , in that case , to pursue the inquiry . 
The laudanum was secretly given to you in some way . 
Let us leave it there , and go on to matters of more immediate importance . 
Read my notes , if you can . 
Familiarise your mind with what has happened in the past . 
I have something very bold and very startling to propose to you , which relates to the future . 
Those last words roused me . 
I looked at the papers , in the order in which Ezra Jennings had placed them in my hands . 
The paper which contained the smaller quantity of writing was the uppermost of the two . 
On this , the disconnected words , and fragments of sentences , which had dropped from Mr. Candy in his delirium , appeared as follows . 
and groping in the dark mean one and the same thing . 
all the company at the dinner table . 
a night's rest in spite of his teeth . 
dose of laudanum , sir . 
There , the first of the two sheets of paper came to an end . 
I handed it back to Ezra Jennings . 
That is what you heard at his bedside ? I said . 
Literally and exactly what I heard , he answered except that the repetitions are not transferred here from my short hand notes . 
He reiterated certain words and phrases a dozen times over , fifty times over , just as he attached more or less importance to the idea which they represented . 
The repetitions , in this sense , were of some assistance to me in putting together those fragments . 
I only say that I have penetrated through the obstacle of the disconnected expression , to the thought which was underlying it connectedly all the time . 
I turned to the second sheet of paper , which I now knew to be the key to the first . 
Once more , Mr. Candy's wanderings appeared , copied in black ink the intervals between the phrases being filled up by Ezra Jennings in red ink . 
I reproduce the result here , in one plain form the original language and the interpretation of it coming close enough together in these pages to be easily compared and verified . 
Mr. Franklin Blake is clever and agreeable , but he wants taking down a peg when he talks of medicine . 
He confesses that he has been suffering from want of sleep at night . 
I tell him that his nerves are out of order , and that he ought to take medicine . 
He tells me that taking medicine and groping in the dark mean one and the same thing . 
This before all the company at the dinner table . 
I say to him , you are groping after sleep , and nothing but medicine can help you to find it . 
He says to me , I have heard of the blind leading the blind , and now I know what it means . 
Witty but I can give him a night's rest in spite of his teeth . 
He really wants sleep and Lady Verinder's medicine chest is at my disposal . 
Give him five and twenty minims of laudanum to night , without his knowing it and then call to morrow morning . 
'Well , Mr. Blake , will you try a little medicine to day ? You will never sleep without it . 
'There you are out , Mr. Candy I have had an excellent night's rest without it . 
Then , come down on him with the truth ! 'You have had something besides an excellent night's rest you had a dose of laudanum , sir , before you went to bed . 
I can only follow your opinion , and feel convinced that you are right . 
The next question is this . 
Ezra Jennings shook his head . 
Useless , Mr. Blake ! Quite useless , as they stand now for three unanswerable reasons . 
In the first place , those notes have been taken under circumstances entirely out of the experience of the mass of mankind . 
Against them , to begin with ! In the second place , those notes represent a medical and metaphysical theory . 
Remember what I told you on the moor and ask yourself what my assertion is worth . 
No ! my notes have but one value , looking to the verdict of the world outside . 
Your innocence is to be vindicated and they show how it can be done . 
We must put our conviction to the proof and You are the man to prove it ! How ? I asked . 
He leaned eagerly nearer to me across the table that divided us . 
Are you willing to try a bold experiment ? I will do anything to clear myself of the suspicion that rests on me now . 
Will you submit to some personal inconvenience for a time ? To any inconvenience , no matter what it may be . 
And , come what may , I'll do it . 
You shall do this , Mr. Blake , he answered . 
You shall steal the Diamond , unconsciously , for the second time , in the presence of witnesses whose testimony is beyond dispute . 
I started to my feet . 
I could only look at him . 
I believe it CAN be done , he went on . 
And it shall be done if you will only help me . 
Try to compose yourself sit down , and hear what I have to say to you . 
You have resumed the habit of smoking I have seen that for myself . 
How long have you resumed it . 
Do you smoke more or less than you did ? More . 
Will you give up the habit again ? Suddenly , mind ! as you gave it up before . 
I began dimly to see his drift . 
I will give it up , from this moment , I answered . 
We shall have put you back again into something assimilating to your nervous condition on the birthday night . 
In that case we may fairly hope that a repetition of the dose will lead , in a greater or lesser degree , to a repetition of the result . 
There is my proposal , expressed in a few hasty words . 
You shall now see what reasons I have to justify me in making it . 
He turned to one of the books at his side , and opened it at a place marked by a small slip of paper . 
Don't suppose that I am going to weary you with a lecture on physiology , he said . 
I think myself bound to prove , in justice to both of us , that I am not asking you to try this experiment in deference to any theory of my own devising . 
Admitted principles , and recognised authorities , justify me in the view that I take . 
Give me five minutes of your attention and I will undertake to show you that Science sanctions my proposal , fanciful as it may seem . 
Here , in the first place , is the physiological principle on which I am acting , stated by no less a person than Dr . 
He handed me the slip of paper which had marked the place in the book . 
in the brain , and may be reproduced at some subsequent time , although there may be no consciousness of its existence in the mind during the whole intermediate period . 
Is that plain , so far ? asked Ezra Jennings . 
He pushed the open book across the table to me , and pointed to a passage , marked by pencil lines . 
Observe , Mr. Blake , before you begin , that I am now referring you to one of the greatest of English physiologists . 
The book in your hand is Doctor Elliotson's HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY and the case which the doctor cites rests on the well known authority of Mr. Combe . 
The passage pointed out to me was expressed in these terms Dr . 
On one occasion , being drunk , he had lost a parcel of some value , and in his sober moments could give no account of it . 
Plain again ? asked Ezra Jennings . 
As plain as need be . 
He put back the slip of paper in its place , and closed the book . 
Are you satisfied that I have not spoken without good authority to support me ? he asked . 
If not , I have only to go to those bookshelves , and you have only to read the passages which I can point out to you . 
I am quite satisfied , I said , without reading a word more . 
In that case , we may return to your own personal interest in this matter . 
I am bound to tell you that there is something to be said against the experiment as well as for it . 
But this there is no denying it is simply impossible . 
We can only hope to approximate to the conditions and if we don't succeed in getting you nearly enough back to what you were , this venture of ours will fail . 
If there is anything that I have not made clear to you , tell me what it is and if I can enlighten you , I will . 
All that you have explained to me , I said , I understand perfectly . 
But I own I am puzzled on one point , which you have not made clear to me yet . 
What is the point ? I don't understand the effect of the laudanum on me . 
I don't understand my walking down stairs , and along corridors , and my opening and shutting the drawers of a cabinet , and my going back again to my own room . 
All these are active proceedings . 
I thought the influence of opium was first to stupefy you , and then to send you to sleep . 
in your service , under the influence of a dose of laudanum , some ten times larger than the dose Mr. Candy administered to you . 
But don't trust to my authority even on a question which comes within my own personal experience . 
He handed me the second of the two books which he had by him on the table . 
There , he said , are the far famed CONFESSIONS OF AN ENGLISH OPIUM EATER ! Take the book away with you , and read it . 
So much for the capacity of a man to occupy himself actively , and to move about from place to place under the influence of opium . 
I am answered so far , I said but I am not answered yet as to the effect produced by the opium on myself . 
I will try to answer you in a few words , said Ezra Jennings . 
The action of opium is comprised , in the majority of cases , in two influences a stimulating influence first , and a sedative influence afterwards . 
In the spiritualised intoxication of opium , you would do all that . 
Later , as the sedative action began to gain on the stimulant action , you would slowly become inert and stupefied . 
Later still you would fall into a deep sleep . 
Have I made it tolerably clear to you so far ? You have made it so clear , I said , that I want you to go farther . 
You have shown me how I entered the room , and how I came to take the Diamond . 
But Miss Verinder saw me leave the room again , with the jewel in my hand . 
Can you trace my proceedings from that moment ? Can you guess what I did next ? That is the very point I was coming to , he rejoined . 
In that event , the case of the Irish porter may be your case . 
You may remember , under the influence of the second dose of opium , the place in which you hid the Diamond under the influence of the first . 
It was my turn , now , to enlighten Ezra Jennings . 
I stopped him , before he could say any more . 
You are speculating , I said , on a result which cannot possibly take place . 
The Diamond is , at this moment , in London . 
He started , and looked at me in great surprise . 
In London ? he repeated . 
How did it get to London from Lady Verinder's house ? Nobody knows . 
You removed it with your own hand from Miss Verinder's room . 
How was it taken out of your keeping ? I have no idea how it was taken out of my keeping . 
In answering Ezra Jennings , I accordingly repeated what I had myself heard from the lawyer's own lips and what is already familiar to the readers of these pages . 
He showed plainly that he was not satisfied with my reply . 
With all deference to you , he said , and with all deference to your legal adviser , I maintain the opinion which I expressed just now . 
It rests , I am well aware , on a mere assumption . 
Pardon me for reminding you , that your opinion also rests on a mere assumption as well . 
The view he took of the matter was entirely new to me . 
I waited anxiously to hear how he would defend it . 
YOU assume that the Hindoo conspirators could by no possibility commit a mistake . 
The Indians assume that Mr. Luker is lying and you assume again that the Indians are right . 
All I say , in differing with you , is that my view is possible . 
I confess you stagger me , I replied . 
Do you object to my writing to Mr. Bruff , and telling him what you have said ? On the contrary , I shall be glad if you will write to Mr. Bruff . 
If we consult his experience , we may see the matter under a new light . 
For the present , let us return to our experiment with the opium . 
We have decided that you leave off the habit of smoking from this moment . 
From this moment ? That is the first step . 
The next step is to reproduce , as nearly as we can , the domestic circumstances which surrounded you last year . 
How was this to be done ? Lady Verinder was dead . 
Rachel and I , so long as the suspicion of theft rested on me , were parted irrevocably . 
Godfrey Ablewhite was away travelling on the Continent . 
It was simply impossible to reassemble the people who had inhabited the house , when I had slept in it last . 
The statement of this objection did not appear to embarrass Ezra Jennings . 
Above all things , he said , you must sleep in the room which you slept in , on the birthday night , and it must be furnished in the same way . 
The stairs , the corridors , and Miss Verinder's sitting room , must also be restored to what they were when you saw them last . 
It is absolutely necessary , Mr. Blake , to replace every article of furniture in that part of the house which may now be put away . 
The sacrifice of your cigars will be useless , unless we can get Miss Verinder's permission to do that . 
Who is to apply to her for permission ? I asked . 
Is it not possible for you to apply ? Quite out of the question . 
After what has passed between us on the subject of the lost Diamond , I can neither see her , nor write to her , as things are now . 
Ezra Jennings paused , and considered for a moment . 
May I ask you a delicate question ? he said . 
I signed to him to go on . 
that you felt no common interest in Miss Verinder , in former times ? Quite right . 
Was the feeling returned ? It was . 
Do you think Miss Verinder would be likely to feel a strong interest in the attempt to prove your innocence ? I am certain of it . 
In that case , I will write to Miss Verinder if you will give me leave . 
Telling her of the proposal that you have made to me ? Telling her of everything that has passed between us to day . 
It is needless to say that I eagerly accepted the service which he had offered to me . 
I shall have time to write by to day's post , he said , looking at his watch . 
Don't forget to lock up your cigars , when you get back to the hotel ! I will call to morrow morning and hear how you have passed the night . 
I rose to take leave of him and attempted to express the grateful sense of his kindness which I really felt . 
He pressed my hand gently . 
Remember what I told you on the moor , he answered . 
If I can do you this little service , Mr. Blake , I shall feel it like a last gleam of sunshine , falling on the evening of a long and clouded day . 
It was then the fifteenth of June . 
In the pages of Ezra Jennings nothing is concealed , and nothing is forgotten . 
Let Ezra Jennings tell how the venture with the opium was tried , and how it ended . 
FOURTH NARRATIVE Extracted from the Journal of EZRA JENNINGS . 
With some interruption from patients , and some interruption from pain , I finished my letter to Miss Verinder in time for to day's post . 
I failed to make it as short a letter as I could have wished . 
But I think I have made it plain . 
It leaves her entirely mistress of her own decision . 
If she consents to assist the experiment , she consents of her own free will , and not as a favour to Mr. Franklin Blake or to me . 
Rose late , after a dreadful night the vengeance of yesterday's opium , pursuing me through a series of frightful dreams . 
At one time I was whirling through empty space with the phantoms of the dead , friends and enemies together . 
At another , the one beloved face which I shall never see again , rose at my bedside , hideously phosphorescent in the black darkness , and glared and grinned at me . 
A slight return of the old pain , at the usual time in the early morning , was welcome as a change . 
It dispelled the visions and it was bearable because it did that . 
My bad night made it late in the morning , before I could get to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
I found him stretched on the sofa , breakfasting on brandy and soda water , and a dry biscuit . 
I am beginning , as well as you could possibly wish , he said . 
A miserable , restless night and a total failure of appetite this morning . 
Exactly what happened last year , when I gave up my cigars . 
The sooner I am ready for my second dose of laudanum , the better I shall be pleased . 
You shall have it on the earliest possible day , I answered . 
In the meantime , we must be as careful of your health as we can . 
If we allow you to become exhausted , we shall fail in that way . 
You must get an appetite for your dinner . 
In other words , you must get a ride or a walk this morning , in the fresh air . 
I will ride , if they can find me a horse here . 
By the by , I wrote to Mr. Bruff , yesterday . 
Have you written to Miss Verinder ? Yes by last night's post . 
We shall have some news worth hearing , to tell each other to morrow . 
Don't go yet ! I have a word to say to you . 
You appeared to think , yesterday , that our experiment with the opium was not likely to be viewed very favourably by some of my friends . 
I call old Gabriel Betteredge one of my friends and you will be amused to hear that he protested strongly when I saw him yesterday . 
Let that be enough , without seeking to know what the new interest is . 
Before breakfast , this morning , Mr. Candy informed me that he was going away for a fortnight , on a visit to a friend in the south of England . 
He gave me as many special directions , poor fellow , about the patients , as if he still had the large practice which he possessed before he was taken ill . 
The practice is worth little enough now ! Other doctors have superseded HIM and nobody who can help it will employ me . 
It is perhaps fortunate that he is to be away just at this time . 
He would have been mortified if I had not informed him of the experiment which I am going to try with Mr. Blake . 
And I hardly know what undesirable results might not have happened , if I had taken him into my confidence . 
Unquestionably , better as it is . 
The post brought me Miss Verinder's answer , after Mr. Candy had left the house . 
A charming letter ! It gives me the highest opinion of her . 
There is no attempt to conceal the interest that she feels in our proceedings . 
of putting my assertion to the proof . 
She even upbraids herself most undeservedly , poor thing ! for not having divined at the time what the true solution of the mystery might really be . 
The motive underlying all this proceeds evidently from something more than a generous eagerness to make atonement for a wrong which she has innocently inflicted on another person . 
It is plain that she has loved him , throughout the estrangement between them . 
One of them prevents me from showing it to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
I am authorised to tell him that Miss Verinder willingly consents to place her house at our disposal and , that said , I am desired to add no more . 
So far , it is easy to comply with her wishes . 
But the second request embarrasses me seriously . 
Here , again , there is a motive under the surface and , here again , I fancy that I can find it out . 
eager to tell him with her own lips , BEFORE he is put to the test which is to vindicate his character in the eyes of other people . 
I understand and admire this generous anxiety to acquit him , without waiting until his innocence may , or may not , be proved . 
It is the atonement that she is longing to make , poor girl , after having innocently and inevitably wronged him . 
But the thing cannot be done . 
It is hard enough , as things are , to reproduce in him the conditions as they existed , or nearly as they existed , last year . 
With new interests and new emotions to agitate him , the attempt would be simply useless . 
And yet , knowing this , I cannot find it in my heart to disappoint her . 
I have just returned from my round of medical visits having begun , of course , by calling at the hotel . 
Mr. Blake's report of the night is the same as before . 
He has had some intervals of broken sleep , and no more . 
But he feels it less to day , having slept after yesterday's dinner . 
This after dinner sleep is the result , no doubt , of the ride which I advised him to take . 
I fear I shall have to curtail his restorative exercise in the fresh air . 
He must not be too well he must not be too ill . 
He has not heard yet from Mr. Bruff . 
I found him eager to know if I had received any answer from Miss Verinder . 
I told him exactly what I was permitted to tell , and no more . 
It was quite needless to invent excuses for not showing him the letter . 
He told me bitterly enough , poor fellow , that he understood the delicacy which disinclined me to produce it . 
She consents , of course , as a matter of common courtesy and common justice , he said . 
But she keeps her own opinion of me , and waits to see the result . 
I was sorely tempted to hint that he was now wronging her as she had wronged him . 
On reflection , I shrank from forestalling her in the double luxury of surprising and forgiving him . 
My visit was a very short one . 
After the experience of the other night , I have been compelled once more to give up my dose of opium . 
As a necessary result , the agony of the disease that is in me has got the upper hand again . 
I felt the attack coming on , and left abruptly , so as not to alarm or distress him . 
It only lasted a quarter of an hour this time , and it left me strength enough to go on with my work . 
I have written my reply to Miss Verinder . 
The arrangement I have proposed reconciles the interests on both sides , if she will only consent to it . 
Travelling by the afternoon train from London , she would delay her arrival until nine o'clock . 
When that has been done , there can be no objection to her watching the result , with the rest of us . 
her correspondence with me , and shall satisfy him in that way that he was acquitted in her estimation , before the question of his innocence was put to the proof . 
In that sense , I have written to her . 
This is all that I can do to day . 
To morrow I must see Mr. Betteredge , and give the necessary directions for reopening the house . 
Late again , in calling on Mr. Franklin Blake . 
More of that horrible pain in the early morning followed , this time , by complete prostration , for some hours . 
I foresee , in spite of the penalties which it exacts from me , that I shall have to return to the opium for the hundredth time . 
If I had only myself to think of , I should prefer the sharp pains to the frightful dreams . 
But the physical suffering exhausts me . 
If I let myself sink , it may end in my becoming useless to Mr. Blake at the time when he wants me most . 
It was nearly one o'clock before I could get to the hotel to day . 
The visit , even in my shattered condition , proved to be a most amusing one thanks entirely to the presence on the scene of Gabriel Betteredge . 
I found him in the room , when I went in . 
He withdrew to the window and looked out , while I put my first customary question to my patient . 
Mr. Blake had slept badly again , and he felt the loss of rest this morning more than he had felt it yet . 
I asked next if he had heard from Mr. Bruff . 
A letter had reached him that morning . 
Mr. Bruff expressed the strongest disapproval of the course which his friend and client was taking under my advice . 
It was mischievous for it excited hopes that might never be realised . 
It was quite unintelligible to HIS mind , except that it looked like a piece of trickery , akin to the trickery of mesmerism , clairvoyance , and the like . 
It unsettled Miss Verinder's house , and it would end in unsettling Miss Verinder herself . 
to an eminent physician and the eminent physician had smiled , had shaken his head , and had said nothing . 
On these grounds , Mr. Bruff entered his protest , and left it there . 
My next inquiry related to the subject of the Diamond . 
Had the lawyer produced any evidence to prove that the jewel was in London ? No , the lawyer had simply declined to discuss the question . 
He was himself satisfied that the Moonstone had been pledged to Mr. Luker . 
Under these circumstances , and with the many demands already made on him , he must decline entering into any disputes on the subject of evidence . 
Time would show and Mr. Bruff was willing to wait for time . 
Having myself foreseen that result , I was neither mortified nor surprised . 
I asked Mr. Blake if his friend's protest had shaken him . 
He answered emphatically , that it had not produced the slightest effect on his mind . 
I was free after that to dismiss Mr. Bruff from consideration and I did dismiss him accordingly . 
A pause in the talk between us , followed and Gabriel Betteredge came out from his retirement at the window . 
Can you favour me with your attention , sir ? he inquired , addressing himself to me . 
I am quite at your service , I answered . 
Betteredge took a chair and seated himself at the table . 
He produced a huge old fashioned leather pocket book , with a pencil of dimensions to match . 
Having put on his spectacles , he opened the pocket book , at a blank page , and addressed himself to me once more . 
I have lived , said Betteredge , looking at me sternly , nigh on fifty years in the service of my late lady . 
I was page boy before that , in the service of the old lord , her father . 
Betteredge held up his hand , in token that he had not done yet . 
Not a word , Mr. Jennings ! he said , It don't want a word , sir , from you . 
I have got my principles , thank God . 
If an order comes to me , which is own brother to an order come from Bedlam , it don't matter . 
So long as I get it from my master or mistress , as the case may be , I obey it . 
It don't matter I withdraw my opinion , for all that . 
My young lady says , Do it . 
And I say , Miss , it shall be done . 
I'll have them in writing , sir . 
I'm determined not to be behind 'em , or before 'em , by so much as a hair's breadth . 
I'm a blind agent that's what I am . 
A blind agent ! repeated Betteredge , with infinite relish of his own description of himself . 
I am very sorry , I began , that you and I don't agree Don't bring ME , into it ! interposed Betteredge . 
This is not a matter of agreement , it's a matter of obedience . 
Issue your directions , sir issue your directions ! Mr. Blake made me a sign to take him at his word . 
I issued my directions as plainly and as gravely as I could . 
I wish certain parts of the house to be reopened , I said , and to be furnished , exactly as they were furnished at this time last year . 
Betteredge gave his imperfectly pointed pencil a preliminary lick with his tongue . 
Name the parts , Mr. Jennings ! he said loftily . 
First , the inner hall , leading to the chief staircase . 
'First , the inner hall , Betteredge wrote . 
Impossible to furnish that , sir , as it was furnished last year to begin with . 
Why ? Because there was a stuffed buzzard , Mr. Jennings , in the hall last year . 
When the family left , the buzzard was put away with the other things . 
When the buzzard was put away he burst . 
We will except the buzzard then . 
Betteredge took a note of the exception . 
'The inner hall to be furnished again , as furnished last year . 
A burst buzzard alone excepted . 
Please to go on , Mr. Jennings . 
The carpet to be laid down on the stairs , as before . 
'The carpet to be laid down on the stairs , as before . 
Sorry to disappoint you , sir . 
But that can't be done either . 
We must try the next best man in England . 
Betteredge took another note and I went on issuing my directions . 
Miss Verinder's sitting room to be restored exactly to what it was last year . 
Also , the corridor leading from the sitting room to the first landing . 
Also , the second corridor , leading from the second landing to the best bedrooms . 
Also , the bedroom occupied last June by Mr. Franklin Blake . 
Betteredge's blunt pencil followed me conscientiously , word by word . 
Go on , sir , he said , with sardonic gravity . 
There's a deal of writing left in the point of this pencil yet . 
I told him that I had no more directions to give . 
Sir , said Betteredge , in that case , I have a point or two to put on my own behalf . 
He opened the pocket book at a new page , and gave the inexhaustible pencil another preliminary lick . 
I wish to know , he began , whether I may , or may not , wash my hands You may decidedly , said Mr. Blake . 
I'll ring for the waiter . 
of certain responsibilities , pursued Betteredge , impenetrably declining to see anybody in the room but himself and me . 
As to Miss Verinder's sitting room , to begin with . 
When we took up the carpet last year , Mr. Jennings , we found a surprising quantity of pins . 
Am I responsible for putting back the pins ? Certainly not . 
Betteredge made a note of that concession , on the spot . 
As to the first corridor next , he resumed . 
When we moved the ornaments in that part , we moved a statue of a fat naked child profanely described in the catalogue of the house as Cupid , god of Love . 
He had two wings last year , in the fleshy part of his shoulders . 
My eye being off him , for the moment , he lost one of them . 
Am I responsible for Cupid's wing ? I made another concession , and Betteredge made another note . 
As to the second corridor , he went on . 
, my mind is easy , I admit , respecting that part of the house only . 
I say , who is responsible for untidying the tidiness of Mr. Franklin's room , him or me ? Mr. Blake declared that he would assume the whole responsibility with the greatest pleasure . 
Betteredge obstinately declined to listen to any solution of the difficulty , without first referring it to my sanction and approval . 
I accepted Mr. Blake's proposal and Betteredge made a last entry in the pocket book to that effect . 
Look in when you like , Mr. Jennings , beginning from to morrow , he said , getting on his legs . 
You will find me at work , with the necessary persons to assist me . 
Speaking as a servant , I am deeply indebted to you . 
Don't be afraid , on that account , of my feelings as a man getting in the way of my duty as a servant ! You shall be obeyed . 
The maggots notwithstanding , sir , you shall be obeyed . 
Do you think we can depend on him ? I asked . 
Implicitly , answered Mr. Blake . 
When we go to the house , we shall find nothing neglected , and nothing forgotten . 
Another protest against our contemplated proceedings ! From a lady this time . 
The morning's post brought me two letters . 
One from Miss Verinder , consenting , in the kindest manner , to the arrangement that I have proposed . 
The other from the lady under whose care she is living one Mrs. Merridew . 
Mrs. Merridew presents her compliments , and does not pretend to understand the subject on which I have been corresponding with Miss Verinder , in its scientific bearings . 
Viewed in its social bearings , however , she feels free to pronounce an opinion . 
I am probably , Mrs. Merridew thinks , not aware that Miss Verinder is barely nineteen years of age . 
in a house full of men among whom a medical experiment is being carried on , is an outrage on propriety which Mrs. Merridew cannot possibly permit . 
If the matter is allowed to proceed , she will feel it to be her duty at a serious sacrifice of her own personal convenience to accompany Miss Verinder to Yorkshire . 
Under these circumstances , she ventures to request that I will kindly reconsider the subject seeing that Miss Verinder declines to be guided by any opinion but mine . 
Her presence cannot possibly be necessary and a word from me , to that effect , would relieve both Mrs. Merridew and myself of a very unpleasant responsibility . 
Translated from polite commonplace into plain English , the meaning of this is , as I take it , that Mrs. Merridew stands in mortal fear of the opinion of the world . 
She has unfortunately appealed to the very last man in existence who has any reason to regard that opinion with respect . 
I won't disappoint Miss Verinder and I won't delay a reconciliation between two young people who love each other , and who have been parted too long already . 
Mr. Blake's report of himself , this morning , was the same as before . 
We determined not to disturb Betteredge by overlooking him at the house to day . 
To morrow will be time enough for our first visit of inspection . 
Mr. Blake is beginning to feel his continued restlessness at night . 
The sooner the rooms are refurnished , now , the better . 
which he had received from Sergeant Cuff . 
The Sergeant writes from Ireland . 
of a card and message which Mr. Blake left at his residence near Dorking , and announces his return to England as likely to take place in a week or less . 
on the subject of the Moonstone . 
to place himself at that gentleman's disposal . 
If not , he begs permission to remain in his retirement , surrounded by the peaceful horticultural attractions of a country life . 
On second thoughts I also suggested inviting the Sergeant to be present at the experiment , in the event of his returning to England in time to join us . 
This last consideration appeared to decide Mr. Blake . 
He promised to follow my advice . 
The sound of the hammer informed us that the work of re furnishing was in full progress , as we entered the drive that led to the house . 
Betteredge , attired for the occasion in a fisherman's red cap , and an apron of green baize , met us in the outer hall . 
The moment he saw me , he pulled out the pocket book and pencil , and obstinately insisted on taking notes of everything that I said to him . 
Look where we might , we found , as Mr. Blake had foretold that the work was advancing as rapidly and as intelligently as it was possible to desire . 
But there was still much to be done in the inner hall , and in Miss Verinder's room . 
It seemed doubtful whether the house would be ready for us before the end of the week . 
and having promised to return for a second visit of inspection in a day or two , we prepared to leave the house , going out by the back way . 
Before we were clear of the passages downstairs , I was stopped by Betteredge , just as I was passing the door which led into his own room . 
Could I say two words to you in private ? he asked , in a mysterious whisper . 
Mr. Blake walked on to wait for me in the garden , while I accompanied Betteredge into his room . 
I fully anticipated a demand for certain new concessions , following the precedent already established in the cases of the stuffed buzzard , and the Cupid's wing . 
Not since then ? inquired Betteredge . 
He fell back a few steps , and looked at me with an expression of compassionate curiosity , tempered by superstitious awe . 
He has not read ROBINSON CRUSOE since he was a child , said Betteredge , speaking to himself not to me . 
Having found a passage of which he was apparently in search , he requested me to join him in the corner still mysteriously confidential , and still speaking under his breath . 
In respect to this hocus pocus of yours , sir , with the laudanum and Mr. Franklin Blake , he began . 
While the workpeople are in the house , my duty as a servant gets the better of my feelings as a man . 
When the workpeople are gone , my feelings as a man get the better of my duty as a servant . 
Last night , Mr. Jennings , it was borne in powerfully on my mind that this new medical enterprise of yours would end badly . 
I am glad to find , from what I have seen up stairs , I said , that you resisted the secret Dictate . 
Resisted isn't the word , answered Betteredge . 
What did I find here , pursued Betteredge , at the first page I opened ? This awful bit , sir , page one hundred and seventy eight , as follows . 
You don't feel at all shaken , Mr. Jennings , in respect to this medical enterprise of yours ? Not the least in the world . 
Betteredge stared hard at me , in dead silence . 
He closed the book with great deliberation he locked it up again in the cupboard with extraordinary care he wheeled round , and stared hard at me once more . 
Sir , he said gravely , there are great allowances to be made for a man who has not read ROBINSON CRUSOE since he was a child . 
I wish you good morning . 
He opened his door with a low bow , and left me at liberty to find my own way into the garden . 
I met Mr. Blake returning to the house . 
You needn't tell me what has happened , he said . 
Betteredge has played his last card he has made another prophetic discovery in ROBINSON CRUSOE . 
Say what you like , and do what you like , for the future . 
You will find that he won't waste another word on you now . 
A short entry must suffice in my journal to day . 
Mr. Blake has had the worst night that he has passed yet . 
I have been obliged , greatly against my will , to prescribe for him . 
Men of his sensitive organisation are fortunately quick in feeling the effect of remedial measures . 
Otherwise , I should be inclined to fear that he will be totally unfit for the experiment when the time comes to try it . 
I shall close this book , and take my full dose five hundred drops . 
Our prospects look better to day . 
Mr. Blake's nervous suffering is greatly allayed . 
He slept a little last night . 
MY night , thanks to the opium , was the night of a man who is stunned . 
I can't say that I woke this morning the fitter expression would be , that I recovered my senses . 
We drove to the house to see if the refurnishing was done . 
It will be completed to morrow Saturday . 
As Mr. Blake foretold , Betteredge raised no further obstacles . 
From first to last , he was ominously polite , and ominously silent . 
must now , inevitably , be delayed until Monday next . 
Tomorrow evening the workmen will be late in the house . 
In the meanwhile , I have prevailed on him to write to Mr. Bruff , making a point of it that he shall be present as one of the witnesses . 
I especially choose the lawyer , because he is strongly prejudiced against us . 
If we convince HIM , we place our victory beyond the possibility of dispute . 
Mr. Blake has also written to Sergeant Cuff and I have sent a line to Miss Verinder . 
we shall have witnesses enough for the purpose without including Mrs. Merridew , if Mrs. Merridew persists in sacrificing herself to the opinion of the world . 
The vengeance of the opium overtook me again last night . 
No matter I must go on with it now till Monday is past and gone . 
Mr. Blake is not so well again to day . 
At two this morning , he confesses that he opened the drawer in which his cigars are put away . 
He only succeeded in locking it up again by a violent effort . 
His next proceeding , in case of temptation , was to throw the key out of window . 
The waiter brought it in this morning , discovered at the bottom of an empty cistern such is Fate ! I have taken possession of the key until Tuesday next . 
Mr. Blake and I took a long drive in an open carriage . 
We both felt beneficially the blessed influence of the soft summer air . 
I dined with him at the hotel . 
To my great relief for I found him in an over wrought , over excited state this morning he had two hours' sound sleep on the sofa after dinner . 
If he has another bad night , now I am not afraid of the consequence . 
The day of the experiment ! It is five o'clock in the afternoon . 
We have just arrived at the house . 
The first and foremost question , is the question of Mr. Blake's health . 
to be quite as susceptible to the action of the opium to night as he was at this time last year . 
He is , this afternoon , in a state of nervous sensitiveness which just stops short of nervous irritation . 
He changes colour readily his hand is not quite steady and he starts at chance noises , and at unexpected appearances of persons and things . 
Here are the same causes at work again , which operated last year and here are , apparently , the same effects . 
Will the parallel still hold good , when the final test has been tried ? The events of the night must decide . 
Have I omitted anything , thus far ? A glance at yesterday's entry shows me that I have forgotten to note the arrival of the morning's post . 
Let me set this right before I close these leaves for the present , and join Mr. Blake . 
I received a few lines then , yesterday , from Miss Verinder . 
She has arranged to travel by the afternoon train , as I recommended . 
Mrs. Merridew has insisted on accompanying her . 
The note hints that the old lady's generally excellent temper is a little ruffled , and requests all due indulgence for her , in consideration of her age and her habits . 
I will endeavour , in my relations with Mrs. Merridew , to emulate the moderation which Betteredge displays in his relations with me . 
He received us to day , portentously arrayed in his best black suit , and his stiffest white cravat . 
Whenever he looks my way , he remembers that I have not read ROBINSON CRUSOE since I was a child , and he respectfully pities me . 
Yesterday , also , Mr. Blake had the lawyer's answer . 
Mr. Bruff accepts the invitation under protest . 
For want of a better escort , Mr. Bruff himself will be that gentleman . 
So here is poor Miss Verinder provided with two chaperones . 
It is a relief to think that the opinion of the world must surely be satisfied with this ! Nothing has been heard of Sergeant Cuff . 
He is no doubt still in Ireland . 
We must not expect to see him to night . 
Betteredge has just come in , to say that Mr. Blake has asked for me . 
I must lay down my pen for the present . 
We have been all over the refurnished rooms and staircases again and we have had a pleasant stroll in the shrubbery , which was Mr. Blake's favourite walk when he was here last . 
In this way , I hope to revive the old impressions of places and things as vividly as possible in his mind . 
We are now going to dine , exactly at the hour at which the birthday dinner was given last year . 
My object , of course , is a purely medical one in this case . 
The laudanum must find the process of digestion , as nearly as may be , where the laudanum found it last year . 
Ten minutes since , I caught Betteredge at an unoccupied moment , and told him what I wanted . 
to the store room in which the medicine chest is kept . 
I discovered the bottle , carefully guarded by a glass stopper tied over with leather . 
The preparation which it contained was , as I had anticipated , the common Tincture of Opium . 
The question of the quantity which I am to administer presents certain difficulties . 
I have thought it over , and have decided on increasing the dose . 
My notes inform me that Mr. Candy only administered twenty five minims . 
This is a small dose to have produced the results which followed even in the case of a person so sensitive as Mr. Blake . 
In any case , I shall run the risk of enlarging the dose to forty minims . 
If my view is right , a larger quantity is therefore imperatively required , this time , to repeat the results which the smaller quantity produced , last year . 
reached the house an hour since . 
Five minutes after the clock in the hall had struck nine , I heard the knock and , going out immediately , met Mr. Bruff in the corridor . 
My personal appearance told against me . 
Mr. Bruff's distrust looked at me plainly enough out of Mr. Bruff's eyes . 
You have travelled here , I believe , in company with Mrs. Merridew and Miss Verinder ? I said . 
Yes , answered Mr. Bruff , as drily as might be . 
Being habitually silent on the subject of human folly , I am all the readier to keep my lips closed on this occasion . 
Does that satisfy you ? I bowed , and left Betteredge to show him to his room . 
Betteredge gave me one look at parting , which said , as if in so many words , You have caught a Tartar , Mr. Jennings and the name of him is Bruff . 
It was next necessary to get the meeting over with the two ladies . 
I descended the stairs a little nervously , I confess on my way to Miss Verinder's sitting room . 
met me in the first floor corridor . 
This excellent woman treats me with an excessive civility which is plainly the offspring of down right terror . 
She stares , trembles , and curtseys , whenever I speak to her . 
Is that Mr. Jennings ? she asked . 
Before I could answer , she came out eagerly to speak to me in the corridor . 
We met under the light of a lamp on a bracket . 
At the first sight of me , Miss Verinder stopped , and hesitated . 
She recovered herself instantly , coloured for a moment and then , with a charming frankness , offered me her hand . 
I can't treat you like a stranger , Mr. Jennings , she said . 
Nothing had prepared me for her kindness and her beauty . 
The misery of many years has not hardened my heart , thank God . 
I was as awkward and as shy with her , as if I had been a lad in my teens . 
Where is he now ? she asked , giving free expression to her one dominant interest the interest in Mr. Blake . 
Do you wonder at the interest I take in this ? No , I said . 
I venture to think that I thoroughly understand it . 
She was far above the paltry affectation of being confused . 
She answered me as she might have answered a brother or a father . 
You have relieved me of indescribable wretchedness you have given me a new life . 
Is there any excuse for me , in that ? I hope there is I am afraid it is the only excuse I have . 
When to morrow comes , and he knows that I am in the house , do you think She stopped again , and looked at me very earnestly . 
When to morrow comes , I said , I think you have only to tell him what you have just told me . 
Her face brightened she came a step nearer to me . 
Her fingers trifled nervously with a flower which I had picked in the garden , and which I had put into the button hole of my coat . 
You have seen a great deal of him lately , she said . 
Have you , really and truly , seen THAT ? Really and truly , I answered . 
I am quite certain of what will happen to morrow . 
I wish I could feel as certain of what will happen to night . 
At that point in the conversation , we were interrupted by the appearance of Betteredge with the tea tray . 
He gave me another significant look as he passed on into the sitting room . 
Aye ! aye ! make your hay while the sun shines . 
The Tartar's upstairs , Mr. Jennings the Tartar's upstairs ! We followed him into the room . 
Mrs. Merridew , said Miss Verinder , this is Mr. Jennings . 
I beg Mr. Jennings's pardon , said the old lady , looking at Miss Verinder , and speaking at me . 
Railway travelling always makes me nervous . 
I am endeavouring to quiet my mind by occupying myself as usual . 
I don't know whether my embroidery is out of place , on this extraordinary occasion . 
If it interferes with Mr. Jennings's medical views , I shall be happy to put it away of course . 
I hastened to sanction the presence of the embroidery , exactly as I had sanctioned the absence of the burst buzzard and the Cupid's wing . 
Mrs. Merridew made an effort a grateful effort to look at my hair . 
No ! it was not to be done . 
Mrs. Merridew looked back again at Miss Verinder . 
If Mr. Jennings will permit me , pursued the old lady , I should like to ask a favour . 
Mr. Jennings is about to try a scientific experiment to night . 
I used to attend scientific experiments when I was a girl at school . 
They invariably ended in an explosion . 
If Mr. Jennings will be so very kind , I should like to be warned of the explosion this time . 
With a view to getting it over , if possible , before I go to bed . 
I attempted to assure Mrs. Merridew that an explosion was not included in the programme on this occasion . 
No , said the old lady . 
I am much obliged to Mr. Jennings I am aware that he is only deceiving me for my own good . 
I am quite resigned to the explosion but I DO want to get it over , if possible , before I go to bed . 
Here the door opened , and Mrs. Merridew uttered another little scream . 
The advent of the explosion ? No only the advent of Betteredge . 
I beg your pardon , Mr. Jennings , said Betteredge , in his most elaborately confidential manner . 
Mr. Franklin wishes to know where you are . 
Being under your orders to deceive him , in respect to the presence of my young lady in the house , I have said I don't know . 
That you will please to observe , was a lie . 
There was not a moment to be wasted on the purely speculative question of Betteredge's conscience . 
Mr. Blake might make his appearance in search of me , unless I went to him at once in his own room . 
Miss Verinder followed me out into the corridor . 
They seem to be in a conspiracy to persecute you , she said . 
What does it mean ? Only the protest of the world , Miss Verinder on a very small scale against anything that is new . 
What are we to do with Mrs. Merridew ? Tell her the explosion will take place at nine to morrow morning . 
So as to send her to bed ? Yes so as to send her to bed . 
Miss Verinder went back to the sitting room , and I went upstairs to Mr. Blake . 
To my surprise I found him alone restlessly pacing his room , and a little irritated at being left by himself . 
Where is Mr. Bruff ? I asked . 
He pointed to the closed door of communication between the two rooms . 
Mr. Bruff had looked in on him , for a moment had attempted to renew his protest against our proceedings and had once more failed to produce the smallest impression on Mr. Blake . 
Upon this , the lawyer had taken refuge in a black leather bag , filled to bursting with professional papers . 
The serious business of life , he admitted , was sadly out of place on such an occasion as the present . 
But the serious business of life must be carried on , for all that . 
Mr. Blake would perhaps kindly make allowance for the old fashioned habits of a practical man . 
Time was money and , as for Mr. Jennings , he might depend on it that Mr. Bruff would be forthcoming when called upon . 
With that apology , the lawyer had gone back to his own room , and had immersed himself obstinately in his black bag . 
I thought of Mrs. Merridew and her embroidery , and of Betteredge and his conscience . 
There is a wonderful sameness in the solid side of the English character just as there is a wonderful sameness in the solid expression of the English face . 
When are you going to give me the laudanum ? asked Mr. Blake impatiently . 
You must wait a little longer , I said . 
I will stay and keep you company till the time comes . 
It was then not ten o'clock . 
I had accordingly determined not to try the second dose until that time . 
We talked a little but both our minds were preoccupied by the coming ordeal . 
The conversation soon flagged then dropped altogether . 
Mr. Blake idly turned over the books on his bedroom table . 
I had taken the precaution of looking at them , when we first entered the room . 
possessing the one great merit of enchaining nobody's interest , and exciting nobody's brain . 
I left Mr. Blake to the composing influence of Standard Literature , and occupied myself in making this entry in my journal . 
My watch informs me that it is close on eleven o'clock . 
I must shut up these leaves once more . 
Two o'clock A. M. The experiment has been tried . 
With what result , I am now to describe . 
At eleven o'clock , I rang the bell for Betteredge , and told Mr. Blake that he might at last prepare himself for bed . 
I looked out of the window at the night . 
It was mild and rainy , resembling , in this respect , the night of the birthday the twenty first of June , last year . 
Without professing to believe in omens , it was at least encouraging to find no direct nervous influences no stormy or electric perturbations in the atmosphere . 
Betteredge joined me at the window , and mysteriously put a little slip of paper into my hand . 
Pray let me see you measure out the laudanum I want to have something to do with it , even in the unimportant character of a mere looker on . 
R. V. I followed Betteredge out of the room , and told him to remove the medicine chest into Miss Verinder's sitting room . 
The order appeared to take him completely by surprise . 
Betteredge appeared to doubt his own unaided capacity to superintend me effectually , on an occasion when a medicine chest was included in the proceedings . 
Betteredge withdrew to fetch the medicine chest , without another word . 
I went back into Mr. Blake's room , and knocked at the door of communication . 
Mr. Bruff opened it , with his papers in his hand immersed in Law impenetrable to Medicine . 
I am sorry to disturb you , I said . 
But I am going to prepare the laudanum for Mr. Blake and I must request you to be present , and to see what I do . 
Yes ? said Mr. Bruff , with nine tenths of his attention riveted on his papers , and with one tenth unwillingly accorded to me . 
Anything else ? I must trouble you to return here with me , and to see me administer the dose . 
Anything else ? One thing more . 
I must put you to the inconvenience of remaining in Mr. Blake's room , and of waiting to see what happens . 
Oh , very good ! said Mr. Bruff . 
My room , or Mr. Blake's room it doesn't matter which I can go on with my papers anywhere . 
Do you really mean to say that you don't feel any interest in what we are going to do ? he asked . 
Mr. Bruff , you have no more imagination than a cow ! A cow is a very useful animal , Mr. Blake , said the lawyer . 
With that reply he followed me out of the room , still keeping his papers in his hand . 
We found Miss Verinder , pale and agitated , restlessly pacing her sitting room from end to end . 
At a table in a corner stood Betteredge , on guard over the medicine chest . 
plunged back again into his papers on the spot . 
Miss Verinder drew me aside , and reverted instantly to her one all absorbing interest her interest in Mr. Blake . 
How is he now ? she asked . 
Is he nervous ? is he out of temper ? Do you think it will succeed ? Are you sure it will do no harm ? Quite sure . 
Come , and see me measure it out . 
One moment ! It is past eleven now . 
How long will it be before anything happens ? It is not easy to say . 
I suppose the room must be dark , as it was last year ? Certainly . 
I shall wait in my bedroom just as I did before . 
I shall keep the door a little way open . 
It was a little way open last year . 
I will watch the sitting room door and the moment it moves , I will blow out my light . 
It all happened in that way , on my birthday night . 
One look at her face told me that I could trust her . 
I addressed myself again to Mr. Bruff . 
I must trouble you to put your papers aside for a moment , I said . 
Oh , certainly ! He got up with a start as if I had disturbed him at a particularly interesting place and followed me to the medicine chest . 
There , deprived of the breathless excitement incidental to the practice of his profession , he looked at Betteredge and yawned wearily . 
Miss Verinder joined me with a glass jug of cold water , which she had taken from a side table . 
Let me pour out the water , she whispered . 
I must have a hand in it ! I measured out the forty minims from the bottle , and poured the laudanum into a medicine glass . 
Fill it till it is three parts full , I said , and handed the glass to Miss Verinder . 
I then directed Betteredge to lock up the medicine chest informing him that I had done with it now . 
A look of unutterable relief overspread the old servant's countenance . 
You must have a hand in this , too , I said . 
You must put it where you put the Moonstone last year . 
She led the way to the Indian cabinet , and put the mock Diamond into the drawer which the real Diamond had occupied on the birthday night . 
Mr. Bruff witnessed this proceeding , under protest , as he had witnessed everything else . 
to be too much for Betteredge's capacity of self restraint . 
At the door , I stopped to address a last word to Miss Verinder . 
Don't be long in putting out the lights , I said . 
I will put them out at once , she answered . 
And I will wait in my bedroom , with only one candle alight . 
She closed the sitting room door behind us . 
Followed by Mr. Bruff and Betteredge , I went back to Mr. Blake's room . 
We found him moving restlessly from side to side of the bed , and wondering irritably whether he was to have the laudanum that night . 
In the presence of the two witnesses , I gave him the dose , and shook up his pillows , and told him to lie down again quietly and wait . 
The other candle I gave to Mr. Bruff the light , in this instance , being subdued by the screen of the chintz curtains . 
The window was open at the top , so as to ventilate the room . 
The rain fell softly , the house was quiet . 
It was twenty minutes past eleven , by my watch , when the preparations were completed , and I took my place on the chair set apart at the bottom of the bed . 
Mr. Bruff resumed his papers , with every appearance of being as deeply interested in them as ever . 
But looking towards him now , I saw certain signs and tokens which told me that the Law was beginning to lose its hold on him at last . 
The suspended interest of the situation in which we were now placed was slowly asserting its influence even on HIS unimaginative mind . 
As for Betteredge , consistency of principle and dignity of conduct had become , in his case , mere empty words . 
For the Lord's sake , sir , he whispered to me , tell us when it will begin to work . 
Not before midnight , I whispered back . 
Say nothing , and sit still . 
Betteredge dropped to the lowest depth of familiarity with me , without a struggle to save himself . 
The wiser course to take was to dismiss the idea of the opium from his mind , by leading him insensibly to think of something else . 
And I purposely assumed , in referring to these events , to have misunderstood much of what Mr. Blake himself had told me a few hours since . 
Little by little , he became so interested in putting me right that he forgot to fidget in the bed . 
I looked at my watch . 
It wanted five minutes to twelve , when the premonitory symptoms of the working of the laudanum first showed themselves to me . 
At this time , no unpractised eyes would have detected any change in him . 
But , as the minutes of the new morning wore away , the swiftly subtle progress of the influence began to show itself more plainly . 
The sublime intoxication of opium gleamed in his eyes the dew of a stealthy perspiration began to glisten on his face . 
In five minutes more , the talk which he still kept up with me , failed in coherence . 
He held steadily to the subject of the Diamond but he ceased to complete his sentences . 
A little later , the sentences dropped to single words . 
Then , there was an interval of silence . 
Then , he sat up in bed . 
Then , still busy with the subject of the Diamond , he began to talk again not to me , but to himself . 
That change told me that the first stage in the experiment was reached . 
The stimulant influence of the opium had got him . 
The time , now , was twenty three minutes past twelve . 
The next half hour , at most , would decide the question of whether he would , or would not , get up from his bed , and leave the room . 
lying unheeded on the floor . 
Mr. Bruff himself was looking eagerly through a crevice left in the imperfectly drawn curtains of the bed . 
And Betteredge , oblivious of all respect for social distinctions , was peeping over Mr. Bruff's shoulder . 
They both started back , on finding that I was looking at them , like two boys caught out by their schoolmaster in a fault . 
I signed to them to take off their boots quietly , as I was taking off mine . 
If Mr. Blake gave us the chance of following him , it was vitally necessary to follow him without noise . 
Ten minutes passed and nothing happened . 
Then , he suddenly threw the bed clothes off him . 
He put one leg out of bed . 
I wish I had never taken it out of the bank , he said to himself . 
It was safe in the bank . 
My heart throbbed fast the pulses at my temples beat furiously . 
The doubt about the safety of the Diamond was , once more , the dominant impression in his brain ! On that one pivot , the whole success of the experiment turned . 
The prospect thus suddenly opened before me was too much for my shattered nerves . 
I was obliged to look away from him or I should have lost my self control . 
There was another interval of silence . 
When I could trust myself to look back at him he was out of his bed , standing erect at the side of it . 
The pupils of his eyes were now contracted his eyeballs gleamed in the light of the candle as he moved his head slowly to and fro . 
He was thinking he was doubting he spoke again . 
How do I know ? he said . 
The Indians may be hidden in the house . 
He stopped , and walked slowly to the other end of the room . 
He turned waited came back to the bed . 
It's not even locked up , he went on . 
It's in the drawer of her cabinet . 
And the drawer doesn't lock . 
He sat down on the side of the bed . 
Anybody might take it , he said . 
He rose again restlessly , and reiterated his first words . 
How do I know ? The Indians may be hidden in the house . 
I drew back behind the half curtain of the bed . 
He looked about the room , with a vacant glitter in his eyes . 
It was a breathless moment . 
There was a pause of some sort . 
A pause in the action of the opium ? a pause in the action of the brain ? Who could tell ? Everything depended , now , on what he did next . 
He laid himself down again on the bed ! A horrible doubt crossed my mind . 
Was it possible that the sedative action of the opium was making itself felt already ? It was not in my experience that it should do this . 
But what is experience , where opium is concerned ? There are probably no two men in existence on whom the drug acts in exactly the same manner . 
Was some constitutional peculiarity in him , feeling the influence in some new way ? Were we to fail on the very brink of success ? No ! He got up again abruptly . 
How the devil am I to sleep , he said , with THIS on my mind ? He looked at the light , burning on the table at the head of his bed . 
After a moment , he took the candle in his hand . 
I blew out the second candle , burning behind the closed curtains . 
I drew back , with Mr. Bruff and Betteredge , into the farthest corner by the bed . 
I signed to them to be silent , as if their lives had depended on it . 
We waited seeing and hearing nothing . 
We waited , hidden from him by the curtains . 
The light which he was holding on the other side of us moved suddenly . 
The next moment he passed us , swift and noiseless , with the candle in his hand . 
He opened the bedroom door , and went out . 
We followed him along the corridor . 
We followed him down the stairs . 
We followed him along the second corridor . 
He never looked back he never hesitated . 
He opened the sitting room door , and went in , leaving it open behind him . 
on large old fashioned hinges . 
When it was opened , a crevice was opened between the door and the post . 
I signed to my two companions to look through this , so as to keep them from showing themselves . 
I placed myself outside the door also on the opposite side . 
A recess in the wall was at my left hand , in which I could instantly hide myself , if he showed any signs of looking back into the corridor . 
He advanced to the middle of the room , with the candle still in his hand he looked about him but he never looked back . 
I saw the door of Miss Verinder's bedroom , standing ajar . 
She had put out her light . 
The dim white outline of her summer dress was all that I could see . 
Nobody who had not known it beforehand would have suspected that there was a living creature in the room . 
She kept back , in the dark not a word , not a movement escaped her . 
It was now ten minutes past one . 
I heard , through the dead silence , the soft drip of the rain and the tremulous passage of the night air through the trees . 
After waiting irresolute , for a minute or more , in the middle of the room , he moved to the corner near the window , where the Indian cabinet stood . 
He put his candle on the top of the cabinet . 
He opened , and shut , one drawer after another , until he came to the drawer in which the mock Diamond was put . 
He looked into the drawer for a moment . 
Then he took the mock Diamond out with his right hand . 
With the other hand , he took the candle from the top of the cabinet . 
He walked back a few steps towards the middle of the room , and stood still again . 
Thus far , he had exactly repeated what he had done on the birthday night . 
He put the candle down on a table , and wandered on a little towards the farther end of the room . 
There was a sofa there . 
He leaned heavily on the back of it , with his left hand then roused himself , and returned to the middle of the room . 
I could now see his eyes . 
They were getting dull and heavy the glitter in them was fast dying out . 
The suspense of the moment proved too much for Miss Verinder's self control . 
She advanced a few steps then stopped again . 
Mr. Bruff and Betteredge looked across the open doorway at me for the first time . 
The prevision of a coming disappointment was impressing itself on their minds as well as on mine . 
Still , so long as he stood where he was , there was hope . 
We waited , in unutterable expectation , to see what would happen next . 
The next event was decisive . 
He let the mock Diamond drop out of his hand . 
It fell on the floor , before the doorway plainly visible to him , and to everyone . 
He made no effort to pick it up he looked down at it vacantly , and , as he looked , his head sank on his breast . 
He staggered roused himself for an instant walked back unsteadily to the sofa and sat down on it . 
He made a last effort he tried to rise , and sank back . 
His head fell on the sofa cushions . 
It was then twenty five minutes past one o'clock . 
Before I had put my watch back in my pocket , he was asleep . 
It was all over now . 
The sedative influence had got him the experiment was at an end . 
I entered the room , telling Mr. Bruff and Betteredge that they might follow me . 
There was no fear of disturbing him . 
We were free to move and speak . 
The first thing to settle , I said , is the question of what we are to do with him . 
He will probably sleep for the next six or seven hours , at least . 
It is some distance to carry him back to his own room . 
When I was younger , I could have done it alone . 
But my health and strength are not what they were I am afraid I must ask you to help me . 
Before they could answer , Miss Verinder called to me softly . 
She met me at the door of her room , with a light shawl , and with the counterpane from her own bed . 
Do you mean to watch him while he sleeps ? she asked . 
Yes , I am not sure enough of the action of the opium in his case to be willing to leave him alone . 
She handed me the shawl and the counterpane . 
Why should you disturb him ? she whispered . 
Make his bed on the sofa . 
I can shut my door , and keep in my room . 
It was infinitely the simplest and the safest way of disposing of him for the night . 
I mentioned the suggestion to Mr. Bruff and Betteredge who both approved of my adopting it . 
In five minutes I had laid him comfortably on the sofa , and had covered him lightly with the counterpane and the shawl . 
Miss Verinder wished us good night , and closed the door . 
At my request , we three then drew round the table in the middle of the room , on which the candle was still burning , and on which writing materials were placed . 
Before we separate , I began , I have a word to say about the experiment which has been tried to night . 
Two distinct objects were to be gained by it . 
After what you have both seen , are you both satisfied , so far ? They answered me in the affirmative , without a moment's hesitation . 
The gaining of this object depended , of course , on his still continuing exactly to repeat his proceedings of last year . 
He has failed to do that and the purpose of the experiment is defeated accordingly . 
I can't assert that I am not disappointed at the result but I can honestly say that I am not surprised by it . 
We have only partially reproduced the conditions , and the experiment has been only partially successful in consequence . 
It is also possible that I may have administered too large a dose of laudanum . 
But I myself look upon the first reason that I have given , as the true reason why we have to lament a failure , as well as to rejoice over a success . 
He at once took the pen , and produced the statement with the fluent readiness of a practised hand . 
I owe you this , he said , signing the paper , as some atonement for what passed between us earlier in the evening . 
I beg your pardon , Mr. Jennings , for having doubted you . 
You have done Franklin Blake an inestimable service . 
In our legal phrase , you have proved your case . 
Betteredge's apology was characteristic of the man . 
, you will find that he never scruples to acknowledge it , when he turns out to have been in the wrong . 
Please to consider me , sir , as doing what Robinson Crusoe did , on the present occasion . 
With those words he signed the paper in his turn . 
Mr. Bruff took me aside , as we rose from the table . 
One word about the Diamond , he said . 
Your theory is that Franklin Blake hid the Moonstone in his room . 
My theory is , that the Moonstone is in the possession of Mr. Luker's bankers in London . 
We won't dispute which of us is right . 
The test , in my case , rejoined Mr. Bruff , is still in process of trial . 
For the last two days I have had a watch set for Mr. Luker at the bank and I shall cause that watch to be continued until the last day of the month . 
In that case I may be able to lay my hand on the person . 
If I succeed , I clear up the mystery , exactly at the point where the mystery baffles us now ! Do you admit that , so far ? I admitted it readily . 
I am going back to town by the morning train , pursued the lawyer . 
I intend to tell him , as soon as he wakes , that he must return with me to London . 
After all that has happened , may I trust to your influence to back me ? Certainly ! I said . 
Mr. Bruff shook hands with me , and left the room . 
Betteredge followed him out I went to the sofa to look at Mr. Blake . 
He had not moved since I had laid him down and made his bed he lay locked in a deep and quiet sleep . 
While I was still looking at him , I heard the bedroom door softly opened . 
Once more , Miss Verinder appeared on the threshold , in her pretty summer dress . 
Do me a last favour ? she whispered . 
Let me watch him with you . 
I hesitated not in the interests of propriety only in the interest of her night's rest . 
She came close to me , and took my hand . 
I can't sleep I can't even sit still , in my own room , she said . 
Oh , Mr. Jennings , if you were me , only think how you would long to sit and look at him . 
Say , yes ! Do ! Is it necessary to mention that I gave way ? Surely not ! She drew a chair to the foot of the sofa . 
She looked at him in a silent ecstasy of happiness , till the tears rose in her eyes . 
She dried her eyes , and said she would fetch her work . 
She fetched her work , and never did a single stitch of it . 
It lay in her lap she was not even able to look away from him long enough to thread her needle . 
I thought of my own youth I thought of the gentle eyes which had once looked love at me . 
In the heaviness of my heart I turned to my Journal for relief , and wrote in it what is written here . 
So we kept our watch together in silence . 
One of us absorbed in his writing the other absorbed in her love . 
Hour after hour he lay in his deep sleep . 
The light of the new day grew and grew in the room , and still he never moved . 
Towards six o'clock , I felt the warning which told me that my pains were coming back . 
I was obliged to leave her alone with him for a little while . 
I said I would go up stairs , and fetch another pillow for him out of his room . 
It was not a long attack , this time . 
In a little while I was able to venture back , and let her see me again . 
I found her at the head of the sofa , when I returned . 
She was just touching his forehead with her lips . 
I shook my head as soberly as I could , and pointed to her chair . 
She looked back at me with a bright smile , and a charming colour in her face . 
You would have done it , she whispered , in my place ! It is just eight o'clock . 
He is beginning to move for the first time . 
Miss Verinder is kneeling by the side of the sofa . 
She has so placed herself that when his eyes first open , they must open on her face . 
Shall I leave them together ? Yes ! Eleven o'clock . 
The house is empty again . 
They have arranged it among themselves they have all gone to London by the ten o'clock train . 
My brief dream of happiness is over . 
I have awakened again to the realities of my friendless and lonely life . 
I dare not trust myself to write down , the kind words that have been said to me especially by Miss Verinder and Mr. Blake . 
Besides , it is needless . 
Those words will come back to me in my solitary hours , and will help me through what is left of the end of my life . 
Mr. Blake is to write , and tell me what happens in London . 
and I am to take a holiday , and be a guest in the house . 
Of what happened after my waking , I do not feel called upon to render an account in detail . 
Confining myself merely to results , I have to report that Rachel and I thoroughly understood each other , before a single word of explanation had passed on either side . 
I decline to account , and Rachel declines to account , for the extraordinary rapidity of our reconciliation . 
I have , however , no objection to add , that we should have been certainly discovered by Mrs. Merridew , but for Rachel's presence of mind . 
Explosions , Mr. Blake , are infinitely milder than they were . 
I assure you , I barely heard Mr. Jennings's explosion from the garden . 
And no smell afterwards , that I can detect , now we have come back to the house ! I must really apologise to your medical friend . 
It is only due to him to say that he has managed it beautifully ! So , after vanquishing Betteredge and Mr. Bruff , Ezra Jennings vanquished Mrs. Merridew herself . 
on accompanying us back to town so as to be within reach of the earliest news of our proceedings . 
I fully expected that he would have asked leave to accompany us . 
But Rachel had wisely provided her faithful old servant with an occupation that interested him . 
He was charged with completing the refurnishing of the house , and was too full of his domestic responsibilities to feel the detective fever as he might have felt it under other circumstances . 
Our one subject of regret , in going to London , was the necessity of parting , more abruptly than we could have wished , with Ezra Jennings . 
It was impossible to persuade him to accompany us . 
I could only promise to write to him and Rachel could only insist on his coming to see her when she returned to Yorkshire . 
They projected so far , and they rolled about so loosely , that you wondered uneasily why they remained in their sockets . 
After listening to the boy , Mr. Bruff asked the ladies whether they would excuse our accompanying them back to Portland Place . 
The boy with the ill secured eyes took his place on the box by the driver , and the driver was directed to go to Lombard Street . 
News from the bank ? I asked , as we started . 
News of Mr. Luker , said Mr. Bruff . 
If Mr. Luker's dread of the Indians is at the bottom of this precaution , the inference is plain enough . 
He is going to take the Diamond out of the bank . 
And we are going to the bank to see what comes of it ? Yes or to hear what has come of it , if it is all over by this time . 
Did you notice my boy on the box , there ? I noticed his eyes . 
They call the poor little wretch Gooseberry at the office , he said . 
I employ him to go on errands and I only wish my clerks who have nick named him were as thoroughly to be depended on as he is . 
Gooseberry is one of the sharpest boys in London , Mr. Blake , in spite of his eyes . 
It was twenty minutes to five when we drew up before the bank in Lombard Street . 
Gooseberry looked longingly at his master , as he opened the cab door . 
Do you want to come in too ? asked Mr. Bruff kindly . 
Come in then , and keep at my heels till further orders . 
He's as quick as lightning , pursued Mr. Bruff , addressing me in a whisper . 
Two words will do with Gooseberry , where twenty would be wanted with another boy . 
Two men among the crowd approached Mr. Bruff , as soon as he showed himself . 
Well , asked the lawyer . 
Have you seen him ? He passed us here half an hour since , sir , and went on into the inner office . 
Has he not come out again yet ? No , sir . 
Mr. Bruff turned to me . 
Let us wait , he said . 
I looked round among the people about me for the three Indians . 
Not a sign of them was to be seen anywhere . 
The only person present with a noticeably dark complexion was a tall man in a pilot coat , and a round hat , who looked like a sailor . 
They must have their spy somewhere , said Mr. Bruff , looking at the dark sailor in his turn . 
And he may be the man . 
Before he could say more , his coat tail was respectfully pulled by his attendant sprite with the gooseberry eyes . 
Mr. Bruff looked where the boy was looking . 
Here is Mr. Luker ! The money lender came out from the inner regions of the bank , followed by his two guardian policemen in plain clothes . 
Keep your eye on him , whispered Mr. Bruff . 
If he passes the Diamond to anybody , he will pass it here . 
Without noticing either of us , Mr. Luker slowly made his way to the door now in the thickest , now in the thinnest part of the crowd . 
I distinctly saw his hand move , as he passed a short , stout man , respectably dressed in a suit of sober grey . 
The man started a little , and looked after him . 
Mr. Luker moved on slowly through the crowd . 
At the door his guard placed themselves on either side of him . 
They were all three followed by one of Mr. Bruff's men and I saw them no more . 
I looked round at the lawyer , and then looked significantly towards the man in the suit of sober grey . 
Yes ! whispered Mr. Bruff , I saw it too ! He turned about , in search of his second man . 
The second man was nowhere to be seen . 
He looked behind him for his attendant sprite . 
What the devil does it mean ? said Mr. Bruff angrily . 
They have both left us at the very time when we want them most . 
It came to the turn of the man in the grey suit to transact his business at the counter . 
He paid in a cheque received a receipt for it and turned to go out . 
What is to be done ? asked Mr. Bruff . 
We can't degrade ourselves by following him . 
I can ! I said . 
I wouldn't lose sight of that man for ten thousand pounds ! In that case , rejoined Mr. Bruff , I wouldn't lose sight of you , for twice the money . 
A nice occupation for a man in my position , he muttered to himself , as we followed the stranger out of the bank . 
For Heaven's sake don't mention it . 
I should be ruined if it was known . 
The man in the grey suit got into an omnibus , going westward . 
We got in after him . 
There were latent reserves of youth still left in Mr. Bruff . 
I assert it positively when he took his seat in the omnibus , he blushed ! The man in the grey suit stopped the omnibus , and got out in Oxford Street . 
He went into a chemist's shop . 
My chemist ! he exclaimed . 
I am afraid we have made a mistake . 
Mr. Bruff and the proprietor exchanged a few words in private . 
The lawyer joined me again , with a very crestfallen face . 
It's greatly to our credit , he said , as he took my arm , and led me out that's one comfort ! What is to our credit ? I asked . 
Mr. Blake ! you and I are the two worst amateur detectives that ever tried their hands at the trade . 
The man in the grey suit has been thirty years in the chemist's service . 
He was sent to the bank to pay money to his master's account and he knows no more of the Moonstone than the babe unborn . 
I asked what was to be done next . 
Come back to my office , said Mr. Bruff . 
Gooseberry , and my second man , have evidently followed somebody else . 
Let us hope that THEY had their eyes about them at any rate ! When we reached Gray's Inn Square , the second man had arrived there before us . 
He had been waiting for more than a quarter of an hour . 
Well ! asked Mr. Bruff . 
What's your news ? I am sorry to say , sir , replied the man , that I have made a mistake . 
I could have taken my oath that I saw Mr. Luker pass something to an elderly gentleman , in a light coloured paletot . 
The elderly gentleman turns out , sir , to be a most respectable master iron monger in Eastcheap . 
Where is Gooseberry ? asked Mr. Bruff resignedly . 
I don't know , sir . 
I have seen nothing of him since I left the bank . 
Mr. Bruff dismissed the man . 
One of two things , he said to me . 
Either Gooseberry has run away , or he is hunting on his own account . 
We dined at Mr. Bruff's chambers . 
Before the cloth was removed , a person was announced as wanting to speak to the lawyer . 
Was the person Gooseberry ? No only the man who had been employed to follow Mr. Luker when he left the bank . 
The report , in this case , presented no feature of the slightest interest . 
Mr. Luker had gone back to his own house , and had there dismissed his guard . 
He had not gone out again afterwards . 
Towards dusk , the shutters had been put up , and the doors had been bolted . 
The street before the house , and the alley behind the house , had been carefully watched . 
No signs of the Indians had been visible . 
No person whatever had been seen loitering about the premises . 
Having stated these facts , the man waited to know whether there were any further orders . 
Mr. Bruff dismissed him for the night . 
Do you think Mr. Luker has taken the Moonstone home with him ? I asked . 
Not he , said Mr. Bruff . 
He would never have dismissed his two policemen , if he had run the risk of keeping the Diamond in his own house again . 
We waited another half hour for the boy , and waited in vain . 
It was then time for Mr. Bruff to go to Hampstead , and for me to return to Rachel in Portland Place . 
The card was to be given to the boy , if the boy came back . 
Some men have a knack of keeping appointments and other men have a knack of missing them . 
I am one of the other men . 
I read , in a neat legal handwriting , these words If you please , sir , I am getting sleepy . 
I will come back to morrow morning , between nine and ten . 
At nine , the next morning , I was ready for my visitor . 
At half past nine , I heard steps outside my door . 
Come in , Gooseberry ! I called out . 
Thank you , sir , answered a grave and melancholy voice . 
I started to my feet , and confronted Sergeant Cuff . 
I thought I would look in here , Mr. Blake , on the chance of your being in town , before I wrote to Yorkshire , said the Sergeant . 
He was as dreary and as lean as ever . 
of looking as if they expected something more from you than you were aware of yourself . 
But , so far as dress can alter a man , the great Cuff was changed beyond all recognition . 
He wore a broad brimmed white hat , a light shooting jacket , white trousers , and drab gaiters . 
He carried a stout oak stick . 
His whole aim and object seemed to be to look as if he had lived in the country all his life . 
When I complimented him on his Metamorphosis , he declined to take it as a joke . 
He complained , quite gravely , of the noises and the smells of London . 
I declare I am far from sure that he did not speak with a slightly rustic accent ! I offered him breakfast . 
The innocent countryman was quite shocked . 
Before I went to bed , I read your letter , telling me what has happened since my inquiry after the Diamond was suspended last year . 
There's only one thing to be said about the matter on my side . 
I completely mistook my case . 
How any man living was to have seen things in their true light , in such a situation as mine was at the time , I don't profess to know . 
But that doesn't alter the facts as they stand . 
I own that I made a mess of it . 
You have come in the nick of time to recover your reputation , I said . 
I beg your pardon , Mr. Blake , rejoined the Sergeant . 
Now I have retired from business , I don't care a straw about my reputation . 
I have done with my reputation , thank God ! I am here , sir , in grateful remembrance of the late Lady Verinder's liberality to me . 
I will go back to my old work if you want me , and if you will trust me on that consideration , and on no other . 
Not a farthing of money is to pass , if you please , from you to me . 
Now tell me , Mr. Blake , how the case stands since you wrote to me last . 
I told him of the experiment with the opium , and of what had occurred afterwards at the bank in Lombard Street . 
He was greatly struck by the experiment it was something entirely new in his experience . 
I don't hold with Mr. Jennings that you hid the Moonstone , said Sergeant Cuff . 
But I agree with him , that you must certainly have taken it back to your own room . 
And what happened then ? Have you no suspicion yourself of what happened , sir ? None whatever . 
Has Mr. Bruff no suspicion ? No more than I have . 
Sergeant Cuff rose , and went to my writing table . 
He came back with a sealed envelope . 
It was marked Private it was addressed to me and it had the Sergeant's signature in the corner . 
I suspected the wrong person , last year , he said and I may be suspecting the wrong person now . 
Wait to open the envelope , Mr. Blake , till you have got at the truth . 
And then compare the name of the guilty person , with the name that I have written in that sealed letter . 
I put the letter into my pocket and then asked for the Sergeant's opinion of the measures which we had taken at the bank . 
Very well intended , sir , he answered , and quite the right thing to do . 
But there was another person who ought to have been looked after besides Mr. Luker . 
The person named in the letter you have just given to me ? Yes , Mr. Blake , the person named in the letter . 
It can't be helped now . 
I shall have something to propose to you and Mr. Bruff , sir , when the time comes . 
Let's wait , first , and see if the boy has anything to tell us that is worth hearing . 
It was close on ten o'clock , and the boy had not made his appearance . 
Sergeant Cuff talked of other matters . 
He asked after his old friend Betteredge , and his old enemy the gardener . 
On being brought into the room , Gooseberry stopped at the threshold of the door , and looked distrustfully at the stranger who was in my company . 
I told the boy to come to me . 
You may speak before this gentleman , I said . 
He is here to assist me and he knows all that has happened . 
Sergeant Cuff , I added , this is the boy from Mr. Bruff's office . 
is the lever that will move anything . 
The fame of the great Cuff had even reached the ears of the small Gooseberry . 
The boy's ill fixed eyes rolled , when I mentioned the illustrious name , till I thought they really must have dropped on the carpet . 
Come here , my lad , said the Sergeant , and let's hear what you have got to tell us . 
The notice of the great man the hero of many a famous story in every lawyer's office in London appeared to fascinate the boy . 
He placed himself in front of Sergeant Cuff , and put his hands behind him , after the approved fashion of a neophyte who is examined in his catechism . 
What is your name ? said the Sergeant , beginning with the first question in the catechism . 
Octavius Guy , answered the boy . 
They call me Gooseberry at the office because of my eyes . 
Octavius Guy , otherwise Gooseberry , pursued the Sergeant , with the utmost gravity , you were missed at the bank yesterday . 
What were you about ? If you please , sir , I was following a man . 
Who was he ? A tall man , sir , with a big black beard , dressed like a sailor . 
I remember the man ! I broke in . 
Mr. Bruff and I thought he was a spy employed by the Indians . 
Sergeant Cuff did not appear to be much impressed by what Mr. Bruff and I had thought . 
He went on catechising Gooseberry . 
I saw Mr. Luker pass something to the sailor with the black beard . 
Why didn't you tell Mr. Bruff what you saw ? I hadn't time to tell anybody , sir , the sailor went out in such a hurry . 
And you ran out after him eh ? Yes , sir . 
Gooseberry , said the Sergeant , patting his head , you have got something in that small skull of yours and it isn't cotton wool . 
I am greatly pleased with you , so far . 
The boy blushed with pleasure . 
Well ? and what did the sailor do , when he got into the street ? He called a cab , sir . 
And what did you do ? Held on behind , and run after it . 
Before the Sergeant could put his next question , another visitor was announced the head clerk from Mr. Bruff's office . 
Feeling the importance of not interrupting Sergeant Cuff's examination of the boy , I received the clerk in another room . 
He came with bad news of his employer . 
The agitation and excitement of the last two days had proved too much for Mr. Bruff . 
The chief clerk had received orders to hold himself at my disposal , and was willing to do his best to replace Mr. Bruff . 
I beg your pardon , Mr. Blake , said the Sergeant . 
I was just going to send word by your servant that I wanted to speak to you . 
There isn't a doubt on my mind that this boy this most meritorious boy , added the Sergeant , patting Gooseberry on the head , has followed the right man . 
Precious time has been lost , sir , through your unfortunately not being at home at half past ten last night . 
The only thing to do , now , is to send for a cab immediately . 
were on our way eastward , towards the City . 
One of these days , said the Sergeant , pointing through the front window of the cab , that boy will do great things in my late profession . 
He is the brightest and cleverest little chap I have met with , for many a long year past . 
You shall hear the substance , Mr. Blake , of what he told me while you were out of the room . 
You were present , I think , when he mentioned that he held on behind the cab , and ran after it ? Yes . 
Well , sir , the cab went from Lombard Street to the Tower Wharf . 
The sailor with the black beard got out , and spoke to the steward of the Rotterdam steamboat , which was to start next morning . 
He asked if he could be allowed to go on board at once , and sleep in his berth over night . 
The sailor turned round , and left the wharf . 
The sailor stopped at an eating house in the neighbourhood , and went in . 
The boy not being able to make up his mind , at the moment hung about among some other boys , staring at the good things in the eating house window . 
He noticed the mechanic waiting , as he himself was waiting but still on the opposite side of the street . 
After a minute , a cab came by slowly , and stopped where the mechanic was standing . 
The boy could only see plainly one person in the cab , who leaned forward at the window to speak to the mechanic . 
He described that person , Mr. Blake , without any prompting from me , as having a dark face , like the face of an Indian . 
It was plain , by this time , that Mr. Bruff and I had made another mistake . 
The sailor with the black beard was clearly not a spy in the service of the Indian conspiracy . 
Was he , by any possibility , the man who had got the Diamond ? After a little , pursued the Sergeant , the cab moved on slowly down the street . 
The mechanic crossed the road , and went into the eating house . 
The boy waited outside till he was hungry and tired and then went into the eating house , in his turn . 
He had a shilling in his pocket and he dined sumptuously , he tells me , on a black pudding , an eel pie , and a bottle of ginger beer . 
What can a boy not digest ? The substance in question has never been found yet . 
What did he see in the eating house ? I asked . 
Well , Mr. Blake , he saw the sailor reading the newspaper at one table , and the mechanic reading the newspaper at another . 
It was dusk before the sailor got up , and left the place . 
He looked about him suspiciously when he got out into the street . 
The boy BEING a boy passed unnoticed . 
The mechanic had not come out yet . 
The sailor walked on , looking about him , and apparently not very certain of where he was going next . 
The mechanic appeared once more , on the opposite side of the road . 
The sailor went on , till he got to Shore Lane , leading into Lower Thames Street . 
There he stopped before a public house , under the sign of The Wheel of Fortune , and , after examining the place outside , went in . 
There were a great many people , mostly of the decent sort , at the bar . 
The Wheel of Fortune is a very respectable house , Mr. Blake famous for its porter and pork pies . 
The Sergeant's digressions irritated me . 
He saw it and confined himself more strictly to Gooseberry's evidence when he went on . 
The sailor , he resumed , asked if he could have a bed . 
The landlord said No they were full . 
The barmaid corrected him , and said Number Ten was empty . 
A waiter was sent for to show the sailor to Number Ten . 
Just before that , Gooseberry had noticed the mechanic among the people at the bar . 
Before the waiter had answered the call , the mechanic had vanished . 
The sailor was taken off to his room . 
Not knowing what to do next , Gooseberry had the wisdom to wait and see if anything happened . 
The landlord was called for . 
Angry voices were heard up stairs . 
The mechanic suddenly made his appearance again , collared by the landlord , and exhibiting , to Gooseberry's great surprise , all the signs and tokens of being drunk . 
The landlord thrust him out at the door , and threatened him with the police if he came back . 
Gooseberry was so struck by this sudden intoxication of a previously sober person , that he couldn't resist running out after the mechanic into the street . 
As long as he was in sight of the public house , the man reeled about in the most disgraceful manner . 
The moment he turned the corner of the street , he recovered his balance instantly , and became as sober a member of society as you could wish to see . 
Gooseberry went back to The Wheel of Fortune in a very bewildered state of mind . 
He waited about again , on the chance of something happening . 
Nothing happened and nothing more was to be heard , or seen , of the sailor . 
Gooseberry decided on going back to the office . 
The light seemed to relieve his mind . 
He left the place directly . 
The boy made his way back to Gray's Inn got your card and message called and failed to find you . 
There you have the state of the case , Mr. Blake , as it stands at the present time . 
What is your own opinion of the case , Sergeant ? I think it's serious , sir . 
Judging by what the boy saw , the Indians are in it , to begin with . 
And the sailor is evidently the person to whom Mr. Luker passed the Diamond . 
It seems odd that Mr. Bruff , and I , and the man in Mr. Bruff's employment , should all have been mistaken about who the person was . 
Not at all , Mr. Blake . 
Considering the risk that person ran , it's likely enough that Mr. Luker purposely misled you , by previous arrangement between them . 
Do you understand the proceedings at the public house ? I asked . 
The man dressed like a mechanic was acting of course in the employment of the Indians . 
But I am as much puzzled to account for his sudden assumption of drunkenness as Gooseberry himself . 
I think I can give a guess at what it means , sir , said the Sergeant . 
If you will reflect , you will see that the man must have had some pretty strict instructions from the Indians . 
They were far too noticeable themselves to risk being seen at the bank , or in the public house they were obliged to trust everything to their deputy . 
which the Diamond is to have for the night , too . 
He was found there , making his observations and he shammed drunk , as the easiest way of getting out of the difficulty . 
That's how I read the riddle . 
After he was turned out of the public house , he probably went with his report to the place where his employers were waiting for him . 
And his employers , no doubt , sent him back to make sure that the sailor was really settled at the public house till the next morning . 
As for what happened at The Wheel of Fortune , after the boy left we ought to have discovered that last night . 
It's eleven in the morning , now . 
We must hope for the best , and find out what we can . 
In a quarter of an hour more , the cab stopped in Shore Lane , and Gooseberry opened the door for us to get out . 
All right ? asked the Sergeant . 
All right , answered the boy . 
The moment we entered The Wheel of Fortune it was plain even to my inexperienced eyes that there was something wrong in the house . 
The only person behind the counter at which the liquors were served , was a bewildered servant girl , perfectly ignorant of the business . 
One or two customers , waiting for their morning drink , were tapping impatiently on the counter with their money . 
The bar maid appeared from the inner regions of the parlour , excited and preoccupied . 
She answered Sergeant Cuff's inquiry for the landlord , by telling him sharply that her master was up stairs , and was not to be bothered by anybody . 
Come along with me , sir , said Sergeant Cuff , coolly leading the way up stairs , and beckoning to the boy to follow him . 
The barmaid called to her master , and warned him that strangers were intruding themselves into the house . 
On the first floor we were encountered by the Landlord , hurrying down , in a highly irritated state , to see what was the matter . 
Who the devil are you ? and what do you want here ? he asked . 
Keep your temper , said the Sergeant , quietly . 
I'll tell you who I am to begin with . 
The illustrious name instantly produced its effect . 
The angry landlord threw open the door of a sitting room , and asked the Sergeant's pardon . 
I am annoyed and out of sorts , sir that's the truth , he said . 
Something unpleasant has happened in the house this morning . 
A man in my way of business has a deal to upset his temper , Sergeant Cuff . 
Not a doubt of it , said the Sergeant . 
I'll come at once , if you will allow me , to what brings us here . 
This gentleman and I want to trouble you with a few inquiries , on a matter of some interest to both of us . 
Relating to what , sir ? asked the landlord . 
Relating to a dark man , dressed like a sailor , who slept here last night . 
Good God ! that's the man who is upsetting the whole house at this moment ! exclaimed the landlord . 
Do you , or does this gentleman know anything about him ? We can't be certain till we see him , answered the Sergeant . 
See him ? echoed the landlord . 
That's the one thing that nobody has been able to do since seven o'clock this morning . 
That was the time when he left word , last night , that he was to be called . 
He WAS called and there was no getting an answer from him , and no opening his door to see what was the matter . 
They tried again at eight , and they tried again at nine . 
I have hammered at the door myself and all to no purpose . 
The potboy has gone to fetch a carpenter . 
If you can wait a few minutes , gentlemen , we will have the door opened , and see what it means . 
Was the man drunk last night ? asked Sergeant Cuff . 
Perfectly sober , sir or I would never have let him sleep in my house . 
But there's a trap door in the ceiling , leading out on to the roof and a little lower down the street , there's an empty house under repair . 
He would be used to climbing , and his head wouldn't fail him on the roofs of the houses . 
As he spoke , the arrival of the carpenter was announced . 
We all went up stairs , at once , to the top story . 
I noticed that the Sergeant was unusually grave , even for him . 
, to wait in the room below till we came down again . 
The carpenter's hammer and chisel disposed of the resistance of the door in a few minutes . 
But some article of furniture had been placed against it inside , as a barricade . 
By pushing at the door , we thrust this obstacle aside , and so got admission to the room . 
The landlord entered first the Sergeant second and I third . 
The other persons present followed us . 
We all looked towards the bed , and all started . 
The man had not left the room . 
He lay , dressed , on the bed with a white pillow over his face , which completely hid it from view . 
What does that mean ? said the landlord , pointing to the pillow . 
Sergeant Cuff led the way to the bed , without answering , and removed the pillow . 
The man's swarthy face was placid and still his black hair and beard were slightly , very slightly , discomposed . 
His eyes stared wide open , glassy and vacant , at the ceiling . 
The filmy look and the fixed expression of them horrified me . 
I turned away , and went to the open window . 
The rest of them remained , where Sergeant Cuff remained , at the bed . 
He's in a fit ! I heard the landlord say . 
He's dead , the Sergeant answered . 
Send for the nearest doctor , and send for the police . 
The waiter was despatched on both errands . 
Some strange fascination seemed to hold Sergeant Cuff to the bed . 
Some strange curiosity seemed to keep the rest of them waiting , to see what the Sergeant would do next . 
I turned again to the window . 
The moment afterwards , I felt a soft pull at my coat tails , and a small voice whispered , Look here , sir ! Gooseberry had followed us into the room . 
His loose eyes rolled frightfully not in terror , but in exultation . 
He had made a detective discovery on his own account . 
Look here , sir , he repeated and led me to a table in the corner of the room . 
On the table stood a little wooden box , open , and empty . 
On one side of the box lay some jewellers' cotton . 
The inscription was in these words Deposited with Messrs . 
The box , when claimed , to be only given up by Messrs . 
on the personal application of Mr. Luker . 
Those lines removed all further doubt , on one point at least . 
The sailor had been in possession of the Moonstone , when he had left the bank on the previous day . 
I felt another pull at my coat tails . 
Gooseberry had not done with me yet . 
Robbery ! whispered the boy , pointing , in high delight , to the empty box . 
You were told to wait down stairs , I said . 
Go away ! And Murder ! added Gooseberry , pointing , with a keener relish still , to the man on the bed . 
There was something so hideous in the boy's enjoyment of the horror of the scene , that I took him by the two shoulders and put him out of the room . 
At the moment when I crossed the threshold of the door , I heard Sergeant Cuff's voice , asking where I was . 
He met me , as I returned into the room , and forced me to go back with him to the bedside . 
Mr. Blake ! he said . 
Look at the man's face . 
Let's see what is under this , said the Sergeant , suddenly seizing the black hair , with a firm grip of his hand . 
My nerves were not strong enough to bear it . 
I turned away again from the bed . 
He's pulling off his wig ! whispered Gooseberry , compassionating my position , as the only person in the room who could see nothing . 
There was a pause and then a cry of astonishment among the people round the bed . 
He's pulled off his beard ! cried Gooseberry . 
There was another pause Sergeant Cuff asked for something . 
The landlord went to the wash hand stand , and returned to the bed with a basin of water and a towel . 
Gooseberry danced with excitement on the chair . 
Come back to the bed , sir ! he began . 
He looked at me closer , and checked himself No ! he resumed . 
Open the sealed letter first the letter I gave you this morning . 
Read the name , Mr. Blake , that I have written inside . 
I read the name that he had written . 
Now , said the Sergeant , come with me , and look at the man on the bed . 
I went with him , and looked at the man on the bed . 
GODFREY ABLEWHITE ! SIXTH NARRATIVE Contributed by SERGEANT CUFF I Dorking , Surrey , July th , . 
To Franklin Blake , Esq . 
Sir , I beg to apologise for the delay that has occurred in the production of the Report , with which I engaged to furnish you . 
The object which I proposed to myself has now , I hope , been attained . 
in drawing from the facts . 
II As to your cousin's death , then , first . 
by the crime , was to obtain possession of the diamond , called the Moonstone . 
The facts from which this conclusion is drawn , are derived partly from an examination of the room at the tavern and partly from the evidence obtained at the Coroner's Inquest . 
On forcing the door of the room , the deceased gentleman was discovered , dead , with the pillow of the bed over his face . 
Next , as to the motive for the crime . 
was found open , and empty , on a table in the room . 
Mr. Luker has himself personally identified the box , the seal , and the inscription . 
, on the afternoon of the twenty sixth of June last . 
The fair inference from all this is , that the stealing of the Moonstone was the motive of the crime . 
Next , as to the manner in which the crime was committed . 
, a trap door in the ceiling , leading out on to the roof of the house , was discovered open . 
, was found placed at the opening , so as to enable any person or persons , in the room , to leave it again easily . 
into the room its height , as already observed , being only seven feet . 
That some person , or persons , must have got admission in this way , appears evident from the fact of the aperture being there . 
The testimony of the inhabitants also declares , that Shore Lane , after midnight , is one of the quietest and loneliest streets in London . 
Lastly , as to the person , or persons , by whom the crime was committed . 
that the Indians had an interest in possessing themselves of the Diamond . 
under circumstances which lead to the suspicion that he was examining the room . 
There is here , moral , if not legal , evidence , that the murder was committed by the Indians . 
Whether the man personating a mechanic was , or was not , an accomplice in the crime , it is impossible to say . 
That he could have committed the murder alone , seems beyond the limits of probability . 
Acting by himself , he could hardly have smothered Mr. Ablewhite who was the taller and stronger man of the two without a struggle taking place , or a cry being heard . 
A servant girl , sleeping in the next room , heard nothing . 
The landlord , sleeping in the room below , heard nothing . 
The whole evidence points to the inference that more than one man was concerned in this crime and the circumstances , I repeat , morally justify the conclusion that the Indians committed it . 
I have only to add , that the verdict at the Coroner's Inquest was Wilful Murder against some person , or persons , unknown . 
Mr. Ablewhite's family have offered a reward , and no effort has been left untried to discover the guilty persons . 
The man dressed like a mechanic has eluded all inquiries . 
The Indians have been traced . 
As to the prospect of ultimately capturing these last , I shall have a word to say to you on that head , when I reach the end of the present Report . 
III With regard to the subject now in hand , I may state , at the outset , that Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite's life had two sides to it . 
produced a sensation in the Park , among persons well qualified to judge of the build of the one , and the breed of the others . 
All this is , so far , common enough . 
The villa and the lady are such familiar objects in London life , that I ought to apologise for introducing them to notice . 
, is that all these fine things were not only ordered , but paid for . 
As to the villa , it had been bought , out and out , and settled on the lady . 
That , pending the arrival of this period , an income of six hundred pounds was to be paid to him by his two Trustees , half yearly at Christmas and Midsummer Day . 
That this income was regularly paid by the active Trustee , Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite . 
had every farthing of it been sold out of the Funds , at different periods , ending with the end of the year eighteen hundred and forty seven . 
was a signature forged , in every case , by the active Trustee otherwise Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite . 
the twenty first of June . 
for a loan of three hundred pounds . 
Mark the sum and remember at the same time , that the half yearly payment to the young gentleman was due on the twenty fourth of the month . 
Also , that the whole of the young gentleman's fortune had been spent by his Trustee , by the end of the year 'forty seven . 
Mr. Ablewhite , senior , refused to lend his son a farthing . 
The next day Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite rode over , with you , to Lady Verinder's house . 
made a proposal of marriage to Miss Verinder . 
Here , he saw his way no doubt if accepted to the end of all his money anxieties , present and future . 
But , as events actually turned out , what happened ? Miss Verinder refused him . 
On the night of the birthday , therefore , Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite's pecuniary position was this . 
He had three hundred pounds to find on the twenty fourth of the month , and twenty thousand pounds to find in February eighteen hundred and fifty . 
Failing to raise these sums , at these times , he was a ruined man . 
Mr. Godfrey is all the readier to enter into the conspiracy , having himself suffered from your sharp tongue in the course of the evening . 
He joins Betteredge in persuading you to drink a little brandy and water before you go to bed . 
He privately drops the dose of laudanum into your cold grog . 
And you drink the mixture . 
Let us now shift the scene , if you please to Mr. Luker's house at Lambeth . 
We have carefully sifted the statement he has addressed to us and here it is at your service . 
, Mr. Luker was surprised by a visit from Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite . 
He was more than surprised , when Mr. Godfrey produced the Moonstone . 
was in the possession of any private person in Europe . 
Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite had two modest proposals to make , in relation to this magnificent gem . 
HIS estimate was thirty thousand pounds . 
Mr. Luker opened his lips again , and only said three words , this time . 
That won't do ! Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite began another story . 
Mr. Luker wasted no more words on him . 
He got up , and rang the bell for the servant to show the gentleman out . 
Upon this compulsion , Mr. Godfrey made an effort , and came out with a new and amended version of the affair , to the following effect . 
After privately slipping the laudanum into your brandy and water , he wished you good night , and went into his own room . 
It was the next room to yours and the two had a door of communication between them . 
On entering his own room Mr. Godfrey closed his door . 
His money troubles kept him awake . 
He sat , in his dressing gown and slippers , for nearly an hour , thinking over his position . 
He looked into your room to see what was the matter . 
He discovered you with the candle in your hand , just leaving your bed chamber . 
He heard you say to yourself , in a voice quite unlike your own voice , How do I know ? The Indians may be hidden in the house . 
to be helping to make you the victim of a harmless practical joke . 
It now occurred to him , that the laudanum had taken some effect on you , which had not been foreseen by the doctor , any more than by himself . 
In the fear of an accident happening he followed you softly to see what you would do . 
He followed you to Miss Verinder's sitting room , and saw you go in . 
You left the door open . 
He looked through the crevice thus produced , between the door and the post , before he ventured into the room himself . 
His own eyes satisfied him that SHE saw you take the Diamond , too . 
Before you left the sitting room again , you hesitated a little . 
Mr. Godfrey took advantage of this hesitation to get back again to his bedroom before you came out , and discovered him . 
He had barely got back , before you got back too . 
just as he was passing through the door of communication . 
At any rate , you called to him in a strange , drowsy voice . 
He came back to you . 
You looked at him in a dull sleepy way . 
You put the Diamond into his hand . 
You said to him , Take it back , Godfrey , to your father's bank . 
It's safe there it's not safe here . 
You turned away unsteadily , and put on your dressing gown . 
You sat down in the large arm chair in your room . 
You said , I can't take it back to the bank . 
My head's like lead and I can't feel my feet under me . 
Your head sank on the back of the chair you heaved a heavy sigh and you fell asleep . 
Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite went back , with the Diamond , into his own room . 
His statement is , that he came to no conclusion , at that time except that he would wait , and see what happened in the morning . 
When the morning came , your language and conduct showed that you were absolutely ignorant of what you had said and done overnight . 
At the same time , Miss Verinder's language and conduct showed that she was resolved to say nothing on her side . 
If Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite chose to keep the Diamond , he might do so with perfect impunity . 
The Moonstone stood between him and ruin . 
He put the Moonstone into his pocket . 
Mr. Luker believed the story to be , as to all main essentials , true on this ground , that Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite was too great a fool to have invented it . 
Mr. Bruff and I agree with Mr. Luker , in considering this test of the truth of the story to be a perfectly reliable one . 
The next question , was the question of what Mr. Luker would do in the matter of the Moonstone . 
a doubtful and dangerous transaction . 
Mr. Luker would consent to lend Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite the sum of two thousand pounds , on condition that the Moonstone was to be deposited with him as a pledge . 
which were then in the money lender's possession . 
It is needless to say , that Mr. Godfrey indignantly refused to listen to these monstrous terms . 
Mr. Luker thereupon , handed him back the Diamond , and wished him good night . 
Your cousin went to the door , and came back again . 
How was he to be sure that the conversation of that evening would be kept strictly secret between his friend and himself ? Mr. Luker didn't profess to know how . 
If Mr. Godfrey had accepted his terms , Mr. Godfrey would have made him an accomplice , and might have counted on his silence as on a certainty . 
As things were , Mr. Luker must be guided by his own interests . 
He looked about him in a state of helpless despair . 
The day of the month , recorded on a neat little card in a box on the money lender's chimney piece , happened to attract his eye . 
It was the twenty third of June . 
But for this miserable obstacle , he might have taken the Diamond to Amsterdam , and have made a marketable commodity of it , by having it cut up into separate stones . 
As matters stood , he had no choice but to accept Mr. Luker's terms . 
After all , he had a year at his disposal , in which to raise the three thousand pounds and a year is a long time . 
Mr. Luker drew out the necessary documents on the spot . 
When they were signed , he gave Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite two cheques . 
One , dated June rd , for three hundred pounds . 
Another , dated a week on , for the remaining balance seventeen hundred pounds . 
The next event in your cousin's life refers again to Miss Verinder . 
he consented , at her request , to consider the marriage as broken off . 
One of his reasons for making this concession has been penetrated by Mr. Bruff . 
Miss Verinder had only a life interest in her mother's property and there was no raising the twenty thousand pounds on THAT . 
But you will say , he might have saved the three thousand pounds , to redeem the pledged Diamond , if he had married . 
But even if he got over this obstacle , there was another waiting for him in the background . 
The lady at the Villa , had heard of his contemplated marriage . 
A superb woman , Mr. Blake , of the sort that are not to be triffled with the sort with the light complexion and the Roman nose . 
She felt the utmost contempt for Mr. Godfrey Ablewhite . 
It would be silent contempt , if he made a handsome provision for her . 
Otherwise , it would be contempt with a tongue to it . 
Miss Verinder's life interest allowed him no more hope of raising the provision than of raising the twenty thousand pounds . 
He couldn't marry he really couldn't marry , under all the circumstances . 
How he tried his luck again with another lady , and how THAT marriage also broke down on the question of money , you know already . 
That legacy led him to his death . 
I have ascertained that when he went abroad , on getting his five thousand pounds , he went to Amsterdam . 
There he made all the necessary arrangements for having the Diamond cut into separate stones . 
He came back , and redeemed the Moonstone , on the appointed day . 
before the jewel was actually taken out of the bank . 
to cut the Diamond , and to make a marketable commodity of the separate stones . 
Judge from this , what motives he had to run the risk which he actually ran . 
It was neck or nothing with him if ever it was neck or nothing with a man yet . 
I have only to remind you , before closing this Report , that there is a chance of laying hands on the Indians , and of recovering the Moonstone yet . 
on their passage to Bombay , in an East Indiaman . 
will be prepared to board the vessel , the moment she enters the harbour . 
Wherever the Report touches on the events of the birthday , or of the three days that followed it , compare with Betteredge's Narrative , chapters viii . 
SEVENTH NARRATIVE In a Letter from MR . 
CANDY Frizinghall , Wednesday , September th , . 
Dear Mr. Franklin Blake , you will anticipate the sad news I have to tell you , on finding your letter to Ezra Jennings returned to you , unopened , in this enclosure . 
He died in my arms , at sunrise , on Wednesday last . 
I am not to blame for having failed to warn you that his end was at hand . 
He expressly forbade me to write to you . 
I am indebted to Mr. Franklin Blake , he said , for having seen some happy days . 
Don't distress him , Mr. Candy don't distress him . 
His sufferings , up to the last six hours of his life , were terrible to see . 
In the intervals of remission , when his mind was clear , I entreated him to tell me of any relatives of his to whom I might write . 
He asked to be forgiven for refusing anything to me . 
And then he said not bitterly that he would die as he had lived , forgotten and unknown . 
He maintained that resolution to the last . 
There is no hope now of making any discoveries concerning him . 
His story is a blank . 
The day before he died , he told me where to find all his papers . 
I brought them to him on his bed . 
There was a little bundle of old letters which he put aside . 
There was his unfinished book . 
There was his Diary in many locked volumes . 
He opened the volume for this year , and tore out , one by one , the pages relating to the time when you and he were together . 
Give those , he said , to Mr. Franklin Blake . 
In years to come , he may feel an interest in looking back at what is written there . 
Then he clasped his hands , and prayed God fervently to bless you , and those dear to you . 
He said he should like to see you again . 
But the next moment he altered his mind . 
No , he answered when I offered to write . 
Promise , he said , that you will put this into my coffin with your own hand and that you will see that no other hand touches it afterwards . 
I gave him my promise . 
And the promise has been performed . 
He asked me to do one other thing for him which it cost me a hard struggle to comply with . 
He said , Let my grave be forgotten . 
Give me your word of honour that you will allow no monument of any sort not even the commonest tombstone to mark the place of my burial . 
Let me sleep , nameless . 
Let me rest , unknown . 
When I tried to plead with him to alter his resolution , he became for the first , and only time , violently agitated . 
I could not bear to see it and I gave way . 
Nothing but a little grass mound marks the place of his rest . 
In time , the tombstones will rise round it . 
And the people who come after us will look and wonder at the nameless grave . 
As I have told you , for six hours before his death his sufferings ceased . 
Once or twice he smiled . 
A woman's name , as I suppose the name of Ella was often on his lips at this time . 
A few minutes before the end he asked me to lift him on his pillow , to see the sun rise through the window . 
His head fell on my shoulder . 
He whispered , It's coming ! Then he said , Kiss me ! I kissed his forehead . 
On a sudden he lifted his head . 
The sunlight touched his face . 
A beautiful expression , an angelic expression , came over it . 
He cried out three times , Peace ! peace ! peace ! His head sank back again on my shoulder , and the long trouble of his life was at an end . 
So he has gone from us . 
This was , as I think , a great man though the world never knew him . 
He had the sweetest temper I have ever met with . 
The loss of him makes me feel very lonely . 
Perhaps I have never been quite myself since my illness . 
Sometimes , I think of giving up my practice , and going away , and trying what some of the foreign baths and waters will do for me . 
It is reported here , that you and Miss Verinder are to be married next month . 
Please to accept my best congratulations . 
The pages of my poor friend's Journal are waiting for you at my house sealed up , with your name on the wrapper . 
I was afraid to trust them to the post . 
My best respects and good wishes attend Miss Verinder . 
I remain , dear Mr. Franklin Blake , truly yours , THOMAS CANDY . 
who led the way in these pages , and opened the story . 
I am also the person who is left behind , as it were , to close the story up . 
Let nobody suppose that I have any last words to say here concerning the Indian Diamond . 
The fact to which I allude is the marriage of Miss Rachel and Mr. Franklin Blake . 
This interesting event took place at our house in Yorkshire , on Tuesday , October ninth , eighteen hundred and forty nine . 
I had a new suit of clothes on the occasion . 
And the married couple went to spend the honeymoon in Scotland . 
taken a drop too much on the strength of it . 
If you have ever done the same sort of thing yourself you will understand and feel for me . 
If you have not , you will very likely say , Disgusting old man ! why does he tell us this ? The reason why is now to come . 
, I next applied the one infallible remedy that remedy being , as you know , ROBINSON CRUSOE . 
Where I opened that unrivalled book , I can't say . 
Where the lines of print at last left off running into each other , I know , however , perfectly well . 
and my Wife then What Robinson Crusoe's wife did , or did not do , then , I felt no desire to discover . 
, and no occasion presented itself for disturbing that mark in the book . 
Does it concern the family , sir ? I asked . 
It decidedly concerns the family , says Mr. Franklin . 
You needn't say a word more , sir , I answered . 
God bless you both ! I'm heartily glad to hear it . 
Mr. Franklin stared like a person thunderstruck . 
May I venture to inquire where you got your information ? he asked . 
NOW , sir , do you believe in ROBINSON CRUSOE ? I asked , with a solemnity , suitable to the occasion . 
Betteredge ! says Mr. Franklin , with equal solemnity , I'm convinced at last . 
He shook hands with me and I felt that I had converted him . 
With the relation of this extraordinary circumstance , my reappearance in these pages comes to an end . 
Let nobody laugh at the unique anecdote here related . 
You are welcome to be as merry as you please over everything else I have written . 
But when I write of ROBINSON CRUSOE , by the Lord it's serious and I request you to take it accordingly ! When this is said , all is said . 
Ladies and gentlemen , I make my bow , and shut up the story . 
On the twenty seventh of June last , I received instructions from Sergeant Cuff to follow three men suspected of murder , and described as Indians . 
They had been seen on the Tower Wharf that morning , embarking on board the steamer bound for Rotterdam . 
I left London by a steamer belonging to another company , which sailed on the morning of Thursday the twenty eighth . 
Arriving at Rotterdam , I succeeded in finding the commander of the Wednesday's steamer . 
He informed me that the Indians had certainly been passengers on board his vessel but as far as Gravesend only . 
Off that place , one of the three had inquired at what time they would reach Calais . 
On being informed that the steamer was bound to Rotterdam , the spokesman of the party expressed the greatest surprise and distress at the mistake which he and his two friends had made . 
to sacrifice their passage money , if the commander of the steamer would only put them ashore . 
This proceeding of the Indians having been plainly resolved on beforehand , as a means of preventing their being traced , I lost no time in returning to England . 
I left the steamer at Gravesend , and discovered that the Indians had gone from that place to London . 
Thence , I again traced them as having left for Plymouth . 
Inquiries made at Plymouth proved that they had sailed , forty eight hours previously , in the BEWLEY CASTLE , East Indiaman , bound direct to Bombay . 
This step having been taken , my connection with the matter came to an end . 
I have heard nothing more of it since that time . 
who were passengers , last summer , in the ship BEWLEY CATSLE , bound for Bombay direct , under my command . 
The Hindoos joined us at Plymouth . 
On the passage out I heard no complaint of their conduct . 
They were berthed in the forward part of the vessel . 
I had but few occasions myself of personally noticing them . 
In the latter part of the voyage , we had the misfortune to be becalmed for three days and nights , off the coast of India . 
I have not got the ship's journal to refer to , and I cannot now call to mind the latitude and longitude . 
becomes relaxed in a long calm . 
The discipline of my ship became relaxed . 
The boats when done with ought to have been slung up again in their places . 
Instead of this they were left moored to the ship's side . 
What with the heat , and what with the vexation of the weather , neither officers nor men seemed to be in heart for their duty while the calm lasted . 
On the third night , nothing unusual was heard or seen by the watch on deck . 
When the morning came , the smallest of the boats was missing and the three Hindoos were next reported to be missing , too . 
, we were near enough to the land to make it vain to send in pursuit of them , when the discovery was made in the morning . 
On reaching our port I there learnt , for the first time , the reason these passengers had for seizing their opportunity of escaping from the ship . 
I could only make the same statement to the authorities which I have made here . 
They considered me to blame for allowing the discipline of the vessel to be relaxed . 
I have expressed my regret on this score to them , and to my owners . 
Since that time , nothing has been heard to my knowledge of the three Hindoos . 
I have no more to add to what is here written . 
III The Statement of MR . 
The talk related to an Indian Diamond , called the Moonstone , and to a conspiracy then in existence to get possession of the gem . 
Since that time , I have been wandering in Central Asia . 
Thence I have drifted back to the scene of some of my past adventures in the north and north west of India . 
About a fortnight since , I found myself in a certain district or province called Kattiawar . 
, the population is fanatically devoted to the old Hindoo religion to the ancient worship of Bramah and Vishnu . 
The few Mahometan families , thinly scattered about the villages in the interior , are afraid to taste meat of any kind . 
To strengthen the religious enthusiasm of the people , two of the most famous shrines of Hindoo pilgrimage are contained within the boundaries of Kattiawar . 
One of them is Dwarka , the birthplace of the god Krishna . 
The other is the sacred city of Somnauth sacked , and destroyed as long since as the eleventh century , by the Mahometan conqueror , Mahmoud of Ghizni . 
Finding myself , for the second time , in these romantic regions , I resolved not to leave Kattiawar , without looking once more on the magnificent desolation of Somnauth . 
some three days distant , journeying on foot , from the sacred city . 
I had not been long on the road , before I noticed that other people by twos and threes appeared to be travelling in the same direction as myself . 
To such of these as spoke to me , I gave myself out as a Hindoo Boodhist , from a distant province , bound on a pilgrimage . 
It is needless to say that my dress was of the sort to carry out this description . 
On the second day , the number of Hindoos travelling in my direction had increased to fifties and hundreds . 
On the third day , the throng had swollen to thousands all slowly converging to one point the city of Somnauth . 
From these men I learnt that the multitude was on its way to a great religious ceremony , which was to take place on a hill at a little distance from Somnauth . 
The ceremony was in honour of the god of the Moon and it was to be held at night . 
The crowd detained us as we drew near to the place of celebration . 
By the time we reached the hill the moon was high in the heaven . 
My Hindoo friends possessed some special privileges which enabled them to gain access to the shrine . 
They kindly allowed me to accompany them . 
When we arrived at the place , we found the shrine hidden from our view by a curtain hung between two magnificent trees . 
Beneath the trees a flat projection of rock jutted out , and formed a species of natural platform . 
Below this , I stood , in company with my Hindoo friends . 
Looking back down the hill , the view presented the grandest spectacle of Nature and Man , in combination , that I have ever seen . 
The lower slopes of the eminence melted imperceptibly into a grassy plain , the place of the meeting of three rivers . 
On one side , the graceful winding of the waters stretched away , now visible , now hidden by trees , as far as the eye could see . 
On the other , the waveless ocean slept in the calm of the night . 
Light this halt of the pilgrims by the wild red flames of cressets and torches , streaming up at intervals from every part of the innumerable throng . 
A strain of plaintive music , played on stringed instruments , and flutes , recalled my attention to the hidden shrine . 
I turned , and saw on the rocky platform the figures of three men . 
In the central figure of the three I recognised the man to whom I had spoken in England , when the Indians appeared on the terrace at Lady Verinder's house . 
The other two who had been his companions on that occasion were no doubt his companions also on this . 
One of the spectators , near whom I was standing , saw me start . 
In a whisper , he explained to me the apparition of the three figures on the platform of rock . 
who had forfeited their caste in the service of the god . 
The god had commanded that their purification should be the purification by pilgrimage . 
On that night , the three men were to part . 
In three separate directions , they were to set forth as pilgrims to the shrines of India . 
Never more were they to look on each other's faces . 
Never more were they to rest on their wanderings , from the day which witnessed their separation , to the day which witnessed their death . 
As those words were whispered to me , the plaintive music ceased . 
The three men prostrated themselves on the rock , before the curtain which hid the shrine . 
They rose they looked on one another they embraced . 
Then they descended separately among the people . 
The people made way for them in dead silence . 
In three different directions I saw the crowd part , at one and the same moment . 
Slowly the grand white mass of the people closed together again . 
The track of the doomed men through the ranks of their fellow mortals was obliterated . 
We saw them no more . 
A new strain of music , loud and jubilant , rose from the hidden shrine . 
The crowd around me shuddered , and pressed together . 
The curtain between the trees was drawn aside , and the shrine was disclosed to view . 
you have lost sight of it for ever . 
So the years pass , and repeat each other so the same events revolve in the cycles of time . 
