ADVERTISEMENT BY THE AUTHORESS , TO NORTHANGER ABBEY THIS little work was finished in the year , and intended for immediate publication . 
It was disposed of to a bookseller , it was even advertised , and why the business proceeded no farther , the author has never been able to learn . 
That any bookseller should think it worth while to purchase what he did not think it worth while to publish seems extraordinary . 
But with this , neither the author nor the public have any other concern than as some observation is necessary upon those parts of the work which thirteen years have made comparatively obsolete . 
CHAPTER No one who had ever seen Catherine Morland in her infancy would have supposed her born to be an heroine . 
Her situation in life , the character of her father and mother , her own person and disposition , were all equally against her . 
Her father was a clergyman , without being neglected , or poor , and a very respectable man , though his name was Richard and he had never been handsome . 
He had a considerable independence besides two good livings and he was not in the least addicted to locking up his daughters . 
Her mother was a woman of useful plain sense , with a good temper , and , what is more remarkable , with a good constitution . 
Such were her propensities her abilities were quite as extraordinary . 
She never could learn or understand anything before she was taught and sometimes not even then , for she was often inattentive , and occasionally stupid . 
Her mother was three months in teaching her only to repeat the Beggar's Petition and after all , her next sister , Sally , could say it better than she did . 
Not that Catherine was always stupid by no means she learnt the fable of The Hare and Many Friends as quickly as any girl in England . 
The day which dismissed the music master was one of the happiest of Catherine's life . 
Writing and accounts she was taught by her father French by her mother her proficiency in either was not remarkable , and she shirked her lessons in both whenever she could . 
Such was Catherine Morland at ten . 
From Pope , she learnt to censure those who bear about the mockery of woe . 
From Gray , that Many a flower is born to blush unseen , And waste its fragrance on the desert air . 
From Thompson , that It is a delightful task To teach the young idea how to shoot . 
That The poor beetle , which we tread upon , In corporal sufferance feels a pang as great As when a giant dies . 
And that a young woman in love always looks like Patience on a monument Smiling at Grief . 
Her greatest deficiency was in the pencil she had no notion of drawing not enough even to attempt a sketch of her lover's profile , that she might be detected in the design . 
There she fell miserably short of the true heroic height . 
At present she did not know her own poverty , for she had no lover to portray . 
This was strange indeed ! But strange things may be generally accounted for if their cause be fairly searched out . 
There was not one lord in the neighbourhood no not even a baronet . 
There was not one family among their acquaintance who had reared and supported a boy accidentally found at their door not one young man whose origin was unknown . 
Her father had no ward , and the squire of the parish no children . 
But when a young lady is to be a heroine , the perverseness of forty surrounding families cannot prevent her . 
Something must and will happen to throw a hero in her way . 
Mr. and Mrs. Morland were all compliance , and Catherine all happiness . 
When the hour of departure drew near , the maternal anxiety of Mrs. Morland will be naturally supposed to be most severe . 
Her cautions were confined to the following points . 
, must from situation be at this time the intimate friend and confidante of her sister . 
Under these unpromising auspices , the parting took place , and the journey began . 
It was performed with suitable quietness and uneventful safety . 
Neither robbers nor tempests befriended them , nor one lucky overturn to introduce them to the hero . 
Nothing more alarming occurred than a fear , on Mrs. Allen's side , of having once left her clogs behind her at an inn , and that fortunately proved to be groundless . 
She was come to be happy , and she felt happy already . 
They were soon settled in comfortable lodgings in Pulteney Street . 
She had neither beauty , genius , accomplishment , nor manner . 
In one respect she was admirably fitted to introduce a young lady into public , being as fond of going everywhere and seeing everything herself as any young lady could be . 
Catherine too made some purchases herself , and when all these matters were arranged , the important evening came which was to usher her into the Upper Rooms . 
Her hair was cut and dressed by the best hand , her clothes put on with care , and both Mrs. Allen and her maid declared she looked quite as she should do . 
With such encouragement , Catherine hoped at least to pass uncensured through the crowd . 
As for admiration , it was always very welcome when it came , but she did not depend on it . 
Mrs. Allen was so long in dressing that they did not enter the ballroom till late . 
The season was full , the room crowded , and the two ladies squeezed in as well as they could . 
As for Mr. Allen , he repaired directly to the card room , and left them to enjoy a mob by themselves . 
Still they moved on something better was yet in view and by a continued exertion of strength and ingenuity they found themselves at last in the passage behind the highest bench . 
They were not long able , however , to enjoy the repose of the eminence they had so laboriously gained . 
Everybody was shortly in motion for tea , and they must squeeze out like the rest . 
Mrs. Allen congratulated herself , as soon as they were seated , on having preserved her gown from injury . 
It would have been very shocking to have it torn , said she , would not it ? It is such a delicate muslin . 
For my part I have not seen anything I like so well in the whole room , I assure you . 
What shall we do ? The gentlemen and ladies at this table look as if they wondered why we came here we seem forcing ourselves into their party . 
Aye , so we do . 
I wish we had a large acquaintance here . 
I wish we had any it would be somebody to go to . 
Very true , my dear and if we knew anybody we would join them directly . 
The Skinners were here last year I wish they were here now . 
Had not we better go away as it is ? Here are no tea things for us , you see . 
No more there are , indeed . 
No , indeed , it looks very nice . 
But , dear Mrs. Allen , are you sure there is nobody you know in all this multitude of people ? I think you must know somebody . 
I don't , upon my word I wish I did . 
I wish I had a large acquaintance here with all my heart , and then I should get you a partner . 
I should be so glad to have you dance . 
There goes a strange looking woman ! What an odd gown she has got on ! How old fashioned it is ! Look at the back . 
Well , Miss Morland , said he , directly , I hope you have had an agreeable ball . 
Very agreeable indeed , she replied , vainly endeavouring to hide a great yawn . 
I wish she had been able to dance , said his wife I wish we could have got a partner for her . 
I am so sorry she has not had a partner ! We shall do better another evening I hope , was Mr. Allen's consolation . 
Every five minutes , by removing some of the crowd , gave greater openings for her charms . 
She was now seen by many young men who had not been near her before . 
Not one , however , started with rapturous wonder on beholding her , no whisper of eager inquiry ran round the room , nor was she once called a divinity by anybody . 
Yet Catherine was in very good looks , and had the company only seen her three years before , they would now have thought her exceedingly handsome . 
She was looked at , however , and with some admiration for , in her own hearing , two gentlemen pronounced her to be a pretty girl . 
They made their appearance in the Lower Rooms and here fortune was more favourable to our heroine . 
The master of the ceremonies introduced to her a very gentlemanlike young man as a partner his name was Tilney . 
His address was good , and Catherine felt herself in high luck . 
There was little leisure for speaking while they danced but when they were seated at tea , she found him as agreeable as she had already given him credit for being . 
He talked with fluency and spirit and there was an archness and pleasantry in his manner which interested , though it was hardly understood by her . 
I have been very negligent but are you now at leisure to satisfy me in these particulars ? If you are I will begin directly . 
You need not give yourself that trouble , sir . 
No trouble , I assure you , madam . 
Really ! with affected astonishment . 
Why should you be surprised , sir ? Why , indeed ! said he , in his natural tone . 
But some emotion must appear to be raised by your reply , and surprise is more easily assumed , and not less reasonable than any other . 
Now let us go on . 
Were you never here before , madam ? Never , sir . 
Indeed ! Have you yet honoured the Upper Rooms ? Yes , sir , I was there last Monday . 
Have you been to the theatre ? Yes , sir , I was at the play on Tuesday . 
To the concert ? Yes , sir , on Wednesday . 
And are you altogether pleased with Bath ? Yes I like it very well . 
Now I must give one smirk , and then we may be rational again . 
Catherine turned away her head , not knowing whether she might venture to laugh . 
I see what you think of me , said he gravely I shall make but a poor figure in your journal tomorrow . 
Indeed I shall say no such thing . 
Shall I tell you what you ought to say ? If you please . 
I danced with a very agreeable young man , introduced by Mr. King had a great deal of conversation with him seems a most extraordinary genius hope I may know more of him . 
That , madam , is what I wish you to say . 
But , perhaps , I keep no journal . 
Perhaps you are not sitting in this room , and I am not sitting by you . 
These are points in which a doubt is equally possible . 
Everybody allows that the talent of writing agreeable letters is peculiarly female . 
Nature may have done something , but I am sure it must be essentially assisted by the practice of keeping a journal . 
As far as I have had opportunity of judging , it appears to me that the usual style of letter writing among women is faultless , except in three particulars . 
And what are they ? A general deficiency of subject , a total inattention to stops , and a very frequent ignorance of grammar . 
Upon my word ! I need not have been afraid of disclaiming the compliment . 
You do not think too highly of us in that way . 
I should no more lay it down as a general rule that women write better letters than men , than that they sing better duets , or draw better landscapes . 
In every power , of which taste is the foundation , excellence is pretty fairly divided between the sexes . 
That is exactly what I should have guessed it , madam , said Mr. Tilney , looking at the muslin . 
I bought one for her the other day , and it was pronounced to be a prodigious bargain by every lady who saw it . 
I gave but five shillings a yard for it , and a true Indian muslin . 
Mrs. Allen was quite struck by his genius . 
Men commonly take so little notice of those things , said she I can never get Mr. Allen to know one of my gowns from another . 
You must be a great comfort to your sister , sir . 
I hope I am , madam . 
How can you , said Catherine , laughing , be so She had almost said strange . 
I am quite of your opinion , sir , replied Mrs. Allen and so I told Miss Morland when she bought it . 
Muslin can never be said to be wasted . 
I have heard my sister say so forty times , when she has been extravagant in buying more than she wanted , or careless in cutting it to pieces . 
Bath is a charming place , sir there are so many good shops here . 
Now , here one can step out of doors and get a thing in five minutes . 
Mr. Tilney was polite enough to seem interested in what she said and she kept him on the subject of muslins till the dancing recommenced . 
Catherine feared , as she listened to their discourse , that he indulged himself a little too much with the foibles of others . 
Catherine coloured , and said , I was not thinking of anything . 
That is artful and deep , to be sure but I had rather be told at once that you will not tell me . 
Well then , I will not . 
Thank you for now we shall soon be acquainted , as I am authorized to tease you on this subject whenever we meet , and nothing in the world advances intimacy so much . 
They danced again and , when the assembly closed , parted , on the lady's side at least , with a strong inclination for continuing the acquaintance . 
Their joy on this meeting was very great , as well it might , since they had been contented to know nothing of each other for the last fifteen years . 
Here come my dear girls , cried Mrs. Thorpe , pointing at three smart looking females who , arm in arm , were then moving towards her . 
The Miss Thorpes were introduced and Miss Morland , who had been for a short time forgotten , was introduced likewise . 
Catherine was delighted with this extension of her Bath acquaintance , and almost forgot Mr. Tilney while she talked to Miss Thorpe . 
Friendship is certainly the finest balm for the pangs of disappointed love . 
Mrs. Thorpe was a widow , and not a very rich one she was a good humoured , well meaning woman , and a very indulgent mother . 
Mr. Tilney was no fonder of the play than the pump room . 
His name was not in the pump room book , and curiosity could do no more . 
He must be gone from Bath . 
From the Thorpes she could learn nothing , for they had been only two days in Bath before they met with Mrs. Allen . 
Isabella was very sure that he must be a charming young man , and was equally sure that he must have been delighted with her dear Catherine , and would therefore shortly return . 
She liked him the better for being a clergyman , for she must confess herself very partial to the profession and something like a sigh escaped her as she said it . 
Mrs. Allen was now quite happy quite satisfied with Bath . 
Alas ! If the heroine of one novel be not patronized by the heroine of another , from whom can she expect protection and regard ? I cannot approve of it . 
Let us not desert one another we are an injured body . 
Although our productions have afforded more extensive and unaffected pleasure than those of any other literary corporation in the world , no species of composition has been so much decried . 
From pride , ignorance , or fashion , our foes are almost as many as our readers . 
I am no novel reader I seldom look into novels Do not imagine that I often read novels It is really very well for a novel . 
Such is the common cant . 
It is but just one . 
I hope you have not been here long ? Oh ! These ten ages at least . 
I am sure I have been here this half hour . 
But now , let us go and sit down at the other end of the room , and enjoy ourselves . 
I have an hundred things to say to you . 
I know it must be a skeleton , I am sure it is Laurentina's skeleton . 
Oh ! I am delighted with the book ! I should like to spend my whole life in reading it . 
I assure you , if it had not been to meet you , I would not have come away from it for all the world . 
Have you , indeed ! How glad I am ! What are they all ? I will read you their names directly here they are , in my pocketbook . 
Castle of Wolfenbach , Clermont , Mysterious Warnings , Necromancer of the Black Forest , Midnight Bell , Orphan of the Rhine , and Horrid Mysteries . 
Those will last us some time . 
I wish you knew Miss Andrews , you would be delighted with her . 
She is netting herself the sweetest cloak you can conceive . 
I think her as beautiful as an angel , and I am so vexed with the men for not admiring her ! I scold them all amazingly about it . 
Scold them ! Do you scold them for not admiring her ? Yes , that I do . 
There is nothing I would not do for those who are really my friends . 
I have no notion of loving people by halves it is not my nature . 
My attachments are always excessively strong . 
The men think us incapable of real friendship , you know , and I am determined to show them the difference . 
Oh , dear ! cried Catherine , colouring . 
Oh ! I must tell you , that just after we parted yesterday , I saw a young man looking at you so earnestly I am sure he is in love with you . 
Catherine coloured , and disclaimed again . 
It is very true , upon my honour , but I see how it is you are indifferent to everybody's admiration , except that of one gentleman , who shall be nameless . 
Nay , I cannot blame you speaking more seriously your feelings are easily understood . 
Where the heart is really attached , I know very well how little one can be pleased with the attention of anybody else . 
Everything is so insipid , so uninteresting , that does not relate to the beloved object ! I can perfectly comprehend your feelings . 
But you should not persuade me that I think so very much about Mr. Tilney , for perhaps I may never see him again . 
Not see him again ! My dearest creature , do not talk of it . 
I am sure you would be miserable if you thought so ! No , indeed , I should not . 
I do not pretend to say that I was not very much pleased with him but while I have Udolpho to read , I feel as if nobody could make me miserable . 
Oh ! The dreadful black veil ! My dear Isabella , I am sure there must be Laurentina's skeleton behind it . 
It is so odd to me , that you should never have read Udolpho before but I suppose Mrs. Morland objects to novels . 
No , she does not . 
She very often reads Sir Charles Grandison herself but new books do not fall in our way . 
Sir Charles Grandison ! That is an amazing horrid book , is it not ? I remember Miss Andrews could not get through the first volume . 
It is not like Udolpho at all but yet I think it is very entertaining . 
Do you indeed ! You surprise me I thought it had not been readable . 
But , my dearest Catherine , have you settled what to wear on your head tonight ? I am determined at all events to be dressed exactly like you . 
The men take notice of that sometimes , you know . 
But it does not signify if they do , said Catherine , very innocently . 
Signify ! Oh , heavens ! I make it a rule never to mind what they say . 
They are very often amazingly impertinent if you do not treat them with spirit , and make them keep their distance . 
Are they ? Well , I never observed that . 
They always behave very well to me . 
Oh ! They give themselves such airs . 
Do you like them best dark or fair ? I hardly know . 
I never much thought about it . 
Something between both , I think . 
Brown not fair , and and not very dark . 
I have not forgot your description of Mr. Tilney 'a brown skin , with dark eyes , and rather dark hair . 
Well , my taste is different . 
I prefer light eyes , and as to complexion do you know I like a sallow better than any other . 
You must not betray me , if you should ever meet with one of your acquaintance answering that description . 
Betray you ! What do you mean ? Nay , do not distress me . 
I believe I have said too much . 
Let us drop the subject . 
Do you know , there are two odious young men who have been staring at me this half hour . 
They really put me quite out of countenance . 
Let us go and look at the arrivals . 
They will hardly follow us there . 
Away they walked to the book and while Isabella examined the names , it was Catherine's employment to watch the proceedings of these alarming young men . 
They are not coming this way , are they ? I hope they are not so impertinent as to follow us . 
Pray let me know if they are coming . 
I am determined I will not look up . 
In a few moments Catherine , with unaffected pleasure , assured her that she need not be longer uneasy , as the gentlemen had just left the pump room . 
And which way are they gone ? said Isabella , turning hastily round . 
One was a very good looking young man . 
They went towards the church yard . 
Only , she added , perhaps we may overtake the two young men . 
Oh ! Never mind that . 
If we make haste , we shall pass by them presently , and I am dying to show you my hat . 
But if we only wait a few minutes , there will be no danger of our seeing them at all . 
I shall not pay them any such compliment , I assure you . 
I have no notion of treating men with such respect . 
That is the way to spoil them . 
CHAPTER Half a minute conducted them through the pump yard to the archway , opposite Union Passage but here they were stopped . 
of young men , are not detained on one side or other by carriages , horsemen , or carts . 
Oh , these odious gigs ! said Isabella , looking up . 
He took out his watch How long do you think we have been running it from Tetbury , Miss Morland ? I do not know the distance . 
Her brother told her that it was twenty three miles . 
Three and twenty ! cried Thorpe . 
Five and twenty if it is an inch . 
Morland remonstrated , pleaded the authority of road books , innkeepers , and milestones but his friend disregarded them all he had a surer test of distance . 
I know it must be five and twenty , said he , by the time we have been doing it . 
You have lost an hour , said Morland it was only ten o'clock when we came from Tetbury . 
Ten o'clock ! It was eleven , upon my soul ! I counted every stroke . 
Such true blood ! Three hours and and a half indeed coming only three and twenty miles ! Look at that creature , and suppose it possible if you can . 
He does look very hot , to be sure . 
What do you think of my gig , Miss Morland ? A neat one , is not it ? Well hung town built I have not had it a month . 
He asked fifty guineas I closed with him directly , threw down the money , and the carriage was mine . 
And I am sure , said Catherine , I know so little of such things that I cannot judge whether it was cheap or dear . 
Neither one nor t'other I might have got it for less , I dare say but I hate haggling , and poor Freeman wanted cash . 
That was very good natured of you , said Catherine , quite pleased . 
Oh ! D it , when one has the means of doing a kind thing by a friend , I hate to be pitiful . 
John Thorpe kept of course with Catherine , and , after a few minutes' silence , renewed the conversation about his gig . 
Yes , said Morland , who overheard this but you forget that your horse was included . 
My horse ! Oh , d it ! I would not sell my horse for a hundred . 
Are you fond of an open carriage , Miss Morland ? Yes , very I have hardly ever an opportunity of being in one but I am particularly fond of it . 
I am glad of it I will drive you out in mine every day . 
Thank you , said Catherine , in some distress , from a doubt of the propriety of accepting such an offer . 
I will drive you up Lansdown Hill tomorrow . 
No , no I shall exercise mine at the average of four hours every day while I am here . 
Shall you indeed ! said Catherine very seriously . 
That will be forty miles a day . 
Forty ! Aye , fifty , for what I care . 
Well , I will drive you up Lansdown tomorrow mind , I am engaged . 
How delightful that will be ! cried Isabella , turning round . 
My dearest Catherine , I quite envy you but I am afraid , brother , you will not have room for a third . 
A third indeed ! No , no I did not come to Bath to drive my sisters about that would be a good joke , faith ! Morland must take care of you . 
This brought on a dialogue of civilities between the other two but Catherine heard neither the particulars nor the result . 
I think you must like Udolpho , if you were to read it it is so very interesting . 
Not I , faith ! No , if I read any , it shall be Mrs. Radcliffe's her novels are amusing enough they are worth reading some fun and nature in them . 
Udolpho was written by Mrs. Radcliffe , said Catherine , with some hesitation , from the fear of mortifying him . 
I have never read it . 
Ah , Mother ! How do you do ? said he , giving her a hearty shake of the hand . 
Where did you get that quiz of a hat ? It makes you look like an old witch . 
Here is Morland and I come to stay a few days with you , so you must look out for a couple of good beds somewhere near . 
And this address seemed to satisfy all the fondest wishes of the mother's heart , for she received him with the most delighted and exulting affection . 
Indeed I am , she replied I love her exceedingly , and am delighted to find that you like her too . 
You hardly mentioned anything of her when you wrote to me after your visit there . 
Because I thought I should soon see you myself . 
I hope you will be a great deal together while you are in Bath . 
I dare say he does and I do not know any man who is a better judge of beauty than Mr. Allen . 
James accepted this tribute of gratitude , and qualified his conscience for accepting it too , by saying with perfect sincerity , Indeed , Catherine , I love you dearly . 
A pre engagement in Edgar's Buildings prevented his accepting the invitation of one friend , and obliged him to hurry away as soon as he had satisfied the demands of the other . 
CHAPTER In spite of Udolpho and the dressmaker , however , the party from Pulteney Street reached the Upper Rooms in very good time . 
I assure you , said she , I would not stand up without your dear sister for all the world for if I did we should certainly be separated the whole evening . 
The younger Miss Thorpes being also dancing , Catherine was left to the mercy of Mrs. Thorpe and Mrs. Allen , between whom she now remained . 
Catherine had fortitude too she suffered , but no murmur passed her lips . 
She returned it with pleasure , and then advancing still nearer , he spoke both to her and Mrs. Allen , by whom he was very civilly acknowledged . 
I am very happy to see you again , sir , indeed I was afraid you had left Bath . 
He thanked her for her fears , and said that he had quitted it for a week , on the very morning after his having had the pleasure of seeing her . 
Well , sir , and I dare say you are not sorry to be back again , for it is just the place for young people and indeed for everybody else too . 
I tell him he is quite in luck to be sent here for his health . 
And I hope , madam , that Mr. Allen will be obliged to like the place , from finding it of service to him . 
I have no doubt that he will . 
A neighbour of ours , Dr . 
Skinner , was here for his health last winter , and came away quite stout . 
That circumstance must give great encouragement . 
Yes , sir and Dr . 
Skinner and his family were here three months so I tell Mr. Allen he must not be in a hurry to get away . 
This was accordingly done , Mr. Tilney still continuing standing before them and after a few minutes' consideration , he asked Catherine to dance with him . 
Of her dear Isabella , to whom she particularly longed to point out that gentleman , she could see nothing . 
They were in different sets . 
Mrs. Hughes could not have applied to any creature in the room more happy to oblige her than Catherine . 
The two dances were scarcely concluded before Catherine found her arm gently seized by her faithful Isabella , who in great spirits exclaimed , At last I have got you . 
My dearest creature , I have been looking for you this hour . 
What could induce you to come into this set , when you knew I was in the other ? I have been quite wretched without you . 
My dear Isabella , how was it possible for me to get at you ? I could not even see where you were . 
So I told your brother all the time but he would not believe me . 
Do go and see for her , Mr. Morland , said I but all in vain he would not stir an inch . 
You know I never stand upon ceremony with such people . 
Look at that young lady with the white beads round her head , whispered Catherine , detaching her friend from James . 
It is Mr. Tilney's sister . 
Oh ! Heavens ! You don't say so ! Let me look at her this moment . 
I die to see him . 
Mr. Morland , you are not to listen . 
We are not talking about you . 
But what is all this whispering about ? What is going on ? There now , I knew how it would be . 
You men have such restless curiosity ! Talk of the curiosity of women , indeed ! 'Tis nothing . 
But be satisfied , for you are not to know anything at all of the matter . 
And is that likely to satisfy me , do you think ? Well , I declare I never knew anything like you . 
What can it signify to you , what we are talking of . 
Perhaps we are talking about you therefore I would advise you not to listen , or you may happen to hear something not very agreeable . 
When the orchestra struck up a fresh dance , James would have led his fair partner away , but she resisted . 
I tell you , Mr. Morland , she cried , I would not do such a thing for all the world . 
How can you be so teasing only conceive , my dear Catherine , what your brother wants me to do . 
He wants me to dance with him again , though I tell him that it is a most improper thing , and entirely against the rules . 
It would make us the talk of the place , if we were not to change partners . 
Upon my honour , said James , in these public assemblies , it is as often done as not . 
Nonsense , how can you say so ? But when you men have a point to carry , you never stick at anything . 
My sweet Catherine , do support me persuade your brother how impossible it is . 
There , cried Isabella , you hear what your sister says , and yet you will not mind her . 
Well , remember that it is not my fault , if we set all the old ladies in Bath in a bustle . 
Come along , my dearest Catherine , for heaven's sake , and stand by me . 
And off they went , to regain their former place . 
Well , my dear , said Mrs. Thorpe , impatient for praise of her son , I hope you have had an agreeable partner . 
I am glad of it . 
John has charming spirits , has not he ? Did you meet Mr. Tilney , my dear ? said Mrs. Allen . 
Where can he be ? said Catherine , looking round but she had not looked round long before she saw him leading a young lady to the dance . 
Ah ! He has got a partner I wish he had asked you , said Mrs. Allen and after a short silence , she added , he is a very agreeable young man . 
Catherine was disappointed and vexed . 
Oh , no I am much obliged to you , our two dances are over and , besides , I am tired , and do not mean to dance any more . 
Do not you ? Then let us walk about and quiz people . 
Come along with me , and I will show you the four greatest quizzers in the room my two younger sisters and their partners . 
I have been laughing at them this half hour . 
Again Catherine excused herself and at last he walked off to quiz his sisters by himself . 
CHAPTER The progress of Catherine's unhappiness from the events of the evening was as follows . 
It appeared first in a general dissatisfaction with everybody about her , while she remained in the rooms , which speedily brought on considerable weariness and a violent desire to go home . 
They want to get their tumble over . 
What do you mean ? said Catherine . 
Something was said about it , I remember , said Catherine , looking at Mrs. Allen for her opinion but really I did not expect you . 
Not expect me ! That's a good one ! And what a dust you would have made , if I had not come . 
Catherine took the advice , and ran off to get ready . 
My dearest creature , cried Isabella , to whom the duty of friendship immediately called her before she could get into the carriage , you have been at least three hours getting ready . 
I was afraid you were ill . 
What a delightful ball we had last night . 
I have a thousand things to say to you but make haste and get in , for I long to be off . 
Catherine followed her orders and turned away , but not too soon to hear her friend exclaim aloud to James , What a sweet girl she is ! I quite dote on her . 
You will not be frightened , Miss Morland , said Thorpe , as he handed her in , if my horse should dance about a little at first setting off . 
He will , most likely , give a plunge or two , and perhaps take the rest for a minute but he will soon know his master . 
He is full of spirits , playful as can be , but there is no vice in him . 
Oh ! Mr. Allen , you mean . 
Yes , I believe , he is very rich . 
And no children at all ? No not any . 
A famous thing for his next heirs . 
He is your godfather , is not he ? My godfather ! No. But you are always very much with them . 
Aye , that is what I meant . 
He seems a good kind of old fellow enough , and has lived very well in his time , I dare say he is not gouty for nothing . 
It would be a famous good thing for us all . 
Oh ! Lord , it would be the saving of thousands . 
There is not the hundredth part of the wine consumed in this kingdom that there ought to be . 
Our foggy climate wants help . 
And yet I have heard that there is a great deal of wine drunk in Oxford . 
Oxford ! There is no drinking at Oxford now , I assure you . 
You would hardly meet with a man who goes beyond his four pints at the utmost . 
Now , for instance , it was reckoned a remarkable thing , at the last party in my rooms , that upon an average we cleared about five pints a head . 
It was looked upon as something out of the common way . 
Mine is famous good stuff , to be sure . 
You would not often meet with anything like it in Oxford and that may account for it . 
But this will just give you a notion of the general rate of drinking there . 
Yes , it does give a notion , said Catherine warmly , and that is , that you all drink a great deal more wine than I thought you did . 
However , I am sure James does not drink so much . 
She followed him in all his admiration as well as she could . 
To go before or beyond him was impossible . 
The wheels have been fairly worn out these ten years at least and as for the body ! Upon my soul , you might shake it to pieces yourself with a touch . 
It is the most devilish little rickety business I ever beheld ! Thank God ! we have got a better . 
I would not be bound to go two miles in it for fifty thousand pounds . 
Good heavens ! cried Catherine , quite frightened . 
Then pray let us turn back they will certainly meet with an accident if we go on . 
Do let us turn back , Mr. Thorpe stop and speak to my brother , and tell him how very unsafe it is . 
Lord bless you ! I would undertake for five pounds to drive it to York and back again , without losing a nail . 
By him the whole matter seemed entirely forgotten and all the rest of his conversation , or rather talk , began and ended with himself and his own concerns . 
Her own feelings entirely engrossed her her wretchedness was most acute on finding herself obliged to go directly home . 
So Mrs. Thorpe said she was vastly pleased at your all going . 
She says there was hardly any veal to be got at market this morning , it is so uncommonly scarce . 
Did you indeed ? And did they speak to you ? Yes , we walked along the Crescent together for half an hour . 
They seem very agreeable people . 
Miss Tilney was in a very pretty spotted muslin , and I fancy , by what I can learn , that she always dresses very handsomely . 
Mrs. Hughes talked to me a great deal about the family . 
And what did she tell you of them ? Oh ! A vast deal indeed she hardly talked of anything else . 
Did she tell you what part of Gloucestershire they come from ? Yes , she did but I cannot recollect now . 
But they are very good kind of people , and very rich . 
Mrs. Hughes saw all the clothes after they came from the warehouse . 
And are Mr. and Mrs. Tilney in Bath ? Yes , I fancy they are , but I am not quite certain . 
Oh , heavens ! My beloved Catherine , have I got you at last ? was her address on Catherine's entering the box and sitting by her . 
My sweetest Catherine , how have you been this long age ? But I need not ask you , for you look delightfully . 
Oh ! What would not I give to see him ! I really am quite wild with impatience . 
My mother says he is the most delightful young man in the world she saw him this morning , you know you must introduce him to me . 
Is he in the house now ? Look about , for heaven's sake ! I assure you , I can hardly exist till I see him . 
No , said Catherine , he is not here I cannot see him anywhere . 
No , indeed I should not . 
Oh , yes you would indeed I know you better than you know yourself . 
Indeed you do me injustice I would not have made so improper a remark upon any account and besides , I am sure it would never have entered my head . 
Isabella smiled incredulously and talked the rest of the evening to James . 
How well your brother dances ! was an artless exclamation of Catherine's towards the close of their conversation , which at once surprised and amused her companion . 
Henry ! she replied with a smile . 
Yes , he does dance very well . 
He must have thought it very odd to hear me say I was engaged the other evening , when he saw me sitting down . 
But I really had been engaged the whole day to Mr. Thorpe . 
Miss Tilney could only bow . 
You cannot think , added Catherine after a moment's silence , how surprised I was to see him again . 
I felt so sure of his being quite gone away . 
When Henry had the pleasure of seeing you before , he was in Bath but for a couple of days . 
He came only to engage lodgings for us . 
That never occurred to me and of course , not seeing him anywhere , I thought he must be gone . 
Was not the young lady he danced with on Monday a Miss Smith ? Yes , an acquaintance of Mrs. Hughes . 
I dare say she was very glad to dance . 
Do you think her pretty ? Not very . 
He never comes to the pump room , I suppose ? Yes , sometimes but he has rid out this morning with my father . 
Mrs. Hughes now joined them , and asked Miss Tilney if she was ready to go . 
I hope I shall have the pleasure of seeing you again soon , said Catherine . 
Shall you be at the cotillion ball tomorrow ? Perhaps we Yes , I think we certainly shall . 
I am glad of it , for we shall all be there . 
This civility was duly returned and they parted on Miss Tilney's side with some knowledge of her new acquaintance's feelings , and on Catherine's , without the smallest consciousness of having explained them . 
She went home very happy . 
The morning had answered all her hopes , and the evening of the following day was now the object of expectation , the future good . 
What gown and what head dress she should wear on the occasion became her chief concern . 
She cannot be justified in it . 
Dress is at all times a frivolous distinction , and excessive solicitude about it often destroys its own aim . 
Woman is fine for her own satisfaction alone . 
No man will admire her the more , no woman will like her the better for it . 
Neatness and fashion are enough for the former , and a something of shabbiness or impropriety will be most endearing to the latter . 
But not one of these grave reflections troubled the tranquillity of Catherine . 
She entered the rooms on Thursday evening with feelings very different from what had attended her thither the Monday before . 
Every young lady may feel for my heroine in this critical moment , for every young lady has at some time or other known the same agitation . 
The cotillions were over , the country dancing beginning , and she saw nothing of the Tilneys . 
Do not be frightened , my dear Catherine , whispered Isabella , but I am really going to dance with your brother again . 
I declare positively it is quite shocking . 
I tell him he ought to be ashamed of himself , but you and John must keep us in countenance . 
Make haste , my dear creature , and come to us . 
John is just walked off , but he will be back in a moment . 
Catherine had neither time nor inclination to answer . 
The others walked away , John Thorpe was still in view , and she gave herself up for lost . 
With what sparkling eyes and ready motion she granted his request , and with how pleasing a flutter of heart she went with him to the set , may be easily imagined . 
Scarcely had they worked themselves into the quiet possession of a place , however , when her attention was claimed by John Thorpe , who stood behind her . 
Heyday , Miss Morland ! said he . 
What is the meaning of this ? I thought you and I were to dance together . 
I wonder you should think so , for you never asked me . 
Yes I remember , I asked you while you were waiting in the lobby for your cloak . 
Oh , no they will never think of me , after such a description as that . 
By heavens , if they do not , I will kick them out of the room for blockheads . 
What chap have you there ? Catherine satisfied his curiosity . 
Hum I do not know him . 
A good figure of a man well put together . 
Does he want a horse ? Here is a friend of mine , Sam Fletcher , has got one to sell that would suit anybody . 
A famous clever animal for the road only forty guineas . 
I would give any money for a real good hunter . 
I have three now , the best that ever were backed . 
I would not take eight hundred guineas for them . 
Fletcher and I mean to get a house in Leicestershire , against the next season . 
It is so d uncomfortable , living at an inn . 
This was the last sentence by which he could weary Catherine's attention , for he was just then borne off by the resistless pressure of a long string of passing ladies . 
Her partner now drew near , and said , That gentleman would have put me out of patience , had he stayed with you half a minute longer . 
He has no business to withdraw the attention of my partner from me . 
We have entered into a contract of mutual agreeableness for the space of an evening , and all our agreeableness belongs solely to each other for that time . 
Nobody can fasten themselves on the notice of one , without injuring the rights of the other . 
I consider a country dance as an emblem of marriage . 
Fidelity and complaisance are the principal duties of both and those men who do not choose to dance or marry themselves , have no business with the partners or wives of their neighbours . 
But they are such very different things ! That you think they cannot be compared together . 
People that marry can never part , but must go and keep house together . 
People that dance only stand opposite each other in a long room for half an hour . 
And such is your definition of matrimony and dancing . 
Taken in that light certainly , their resemblance is not striking but I think I could place them in such a view . 
You will allow all this ? Yes , to be sure , as you state it , all this sounds very well but still they are so very different . 
I cannot look upon them at all in the same light , nor think the same duties belong to them . 
In one respect , there certainly is a difference . 
But in dancing , their duties are exactly changed the agreeableness , the compliance are expected from him , while she furnishes the fan and the lavender water . 
That , I suppose , was the difference of duties which struck you , as rendering the conditions incapable of comparison . 
No , indeed , I never thought of that . 
Then I am quite at a loss . 
One thing , however , I must observe . 
This disposition on your side is rather alarming . 
Now you have given me a security worth having and I shall proceed with courage . 
Do you find Bath as agreeable as when I had the honour of making the inquiry before ? Yes , quite more so , indeed . 
More so ! Take care , or you will forget to be tired of it at the proper time . 
You ought to be tired at the end of six weeks . 
I do not think I should be tired , if I were to stay here six months . 
Bath , compared with London , has little variety , and so everybody finds out every year . 
'For six weeks , I allow Bath is pleasant enough but beyond that , it is the most tiresome place in the world . 
Well , other people must judge for themselves , and those who go to London may think nothing of Bath . 
You are not fond of the country . 
I have always lived there , and always been very happy . 
But certainly there is much more sameness in a country life than in a Bath life . 
One day in the country is exactly like another . 
But then you spend your time so much more rationally in the country . 
Do I ? Do you not ? I do not believe there is much difference . 
Here you are in pursuit only of amusement all day long . 
And so I am at home only I do not find so much of it . 
I walk about here , and so I do there but here I see a variety of people in every street , and there I can only go and call on Mrs. Allen . 
Mr. Tilney was very much amused . 
Only go and call on Mrs. Allen ! he repeated . 
What a picture of intellectual poverty ! However , when you sink into this abyss again , you will have more to say . 
You will be able to talk of Bath , and of all that you did here . 
I shall never be in want of something to talk of again to Mrs. Allen , or anybody else . 
I really believe I shall always be talking of Bath , when I am at home again I do like it so very much . 
is quite delightful and especially as it turns out that the very family we are just got so intimate with are his intimate friends already . 
Oh ! Who can ever be tired of Bath ? Not those who bring such fresh feelings of every sort to it as you do . 
Here their conversation closed , the demands of the dance becoming now too importunate for a divided attention . 
Soon after their reaching the bottom of the set , Catherine perceived herself to be earnestly regarded by a gentleman who stood among the lookers on , immediately behind her partner . 
Confused by his notice , and blushing from the fear of its being excited by something wrong in her appearance , she turned away her head . 
But while she did so , the gentleman retreated , and her partner , coming nearer , said , I see that you guess what I have just been asked . 
That gentleman knows your name , and you have a right to know his . 
It is General Tilney , my father . 
Catherine's answer was only Oh ! but it was an Oh ! expressing everything needful attention to his words , and perfect reliance on their truth . 
With real interest and strong admiration did her eye now follow the general , as he moved through the crowd , and How handsome a family they are ! was her secret remark . 
In chatting with Miss Tilney before the evening concluded , a new source of felicity arose to her . 
She had never taken a country walk since her arrival in Bath . 
I shall like it , she cried , beyond anything in the world and do not let us put it off let us go tomorrow . 
This was readily agreed to , with only a proviso of Miss Tilney's , that it did not rain , which Catherine was sure it would not . 
At twelve o'clock , they were to call for her in Pulteney Street and Remember twelve o'clock , was her parting speech to her new friend . 
Of her other , her older , her more established friend , Isabella , of whose fidelity and worth she had enjoyed a fortnight's experience , she scarcely saw anything during the evening . 
CHAPTER The morrow brought a very sober looking morning , the sun making only a few efforts to appear , and Catherine augured from it everything most favourable to her wishes . 
A bright morning so early in the year , she allowed , would generally turn to rain , but a cloudy one foretold improvement as the day advanced . 
She applied to Mr. Allen for confirmation of her hopes , but Mr. Allen , not having his own skies and barometer about him , declined giving any absolute promise of sunshine . 
She applied to Mrs. Allen , and Mrs. Allen's opinion was more positive . 
She had no doubt in the world of its being a very fine day , if the clouds would only go off , and the sun keep out . 
I thought how it would be , said Mrs. Allen . 
No walk for me today , sighed Catherine but perhaps it may come to nothing , or it may hold up before twelve . 
Perhaps it may , but then , my dear , it will be so dirty . 
Oh ! That will not signify I never mind dirt . 
No , replied her friend very placidly , I know you never mind dirt . 
After a short pause , It comes on faster and faster ! said Catherine , as she stood watching at a window . 
If it keeps raining , the streets will be very wet . 
There are four umbrellas up already . 
How I hate the sight of an umbrella ! They are disagreeable things to carry . 
I would much rather take a chair at any time . 
It was such a nice looking morning ! I felt so convinced it would be dry ! Anybody would have thought so indeed . 
There will be very few people in the pump room , if it rains all the morning . 
The rain continued fast , though not heavy . 
Catherine went every five minutes to the clock , threatening on each return that , if it still kept on raining another five minutes , she would give up the matter as hopeless . 
The clock struck twelve , and it still rained . 
You will not be able to go , my dear . 
I do not quite despair yet . 
I shall not give it up till a quarter after twelve . 
This is just the time of day for it to clear up , and I do think it looks a little lighter . 
There , it is twenty minutes after twelve , and now I shall give it up entirely . 
Oh ! That we had such weather here as they had at Udolpho , or at least in Tuscany and the south of France ! the night that poor St . 
A gleam of sunshine took her quite by surprise she looked round the clouds were parting , and she instantly returned to the window to watch over and encourage the happy appearance . 
Ten minutes more made it certain that a bright afternoon would succeed , and justified the opinion of Mrs. Allen , who had always thought it would clear up . 
But whether Catherine might still expect her friends , whether there had not been too much rain for Miss Tilney to venture , must yet be a question . 
Mrs. Allen agreed to it . 
John Thorpe was soon with them , and his voice was with them yet sooner , for on the stairs he was calling out to Miss Morland to be quick . 
Make haste ! Make haste ! as he threw open the door . 
Put on your hat this moment there is no time to be lost we are going to Bristol . 
This was of course vehemently talked down as no reason at all Mrs. Allen was called on to second him , and the two others walked in , to give their assistance . 
My sweetest Catherine , is not this delightful ? We shall have a most heavenly drive . 
But it does not signify , the nights are moonlight , and we shall do delightfully . 
Oh ! I am in such ecstasies at the thoughts of a little country air and quiet ! So much better than going to the Lower Rooms . 
We shall drive directly to Clifton and dine there and , as soon as dinner is over , if there is time for it , go on to Kingsweston . 
I doubt our being able to do so much , said Morland . 
You croaking fellow ! cried Thorpe . 
We shall be able to do ten times more . 
Kingsweston ! Aye , and Blaize Castle too , and anything else we can hear of but here is your sister says she will not go . 
Blaize Castle ! cried Catherine . 
What is that' ? The finest place in England worth going fifty miles at any time to see . 
What , is it really a castle , an old castle ? The oldest in the kingdom . 
But is it like what one reads of ? Exactly the very same . 
But now really are there towers and long galleries ? By dozens . 
Then I should like to see it but I cannot I cannot go . 
They promised to come at twelve , only it rained but now , as it is so fine , I dare say they will be here soon . 
Not they indeed , cried Thorpe for , as we turned into Broad Street , I saw them does he not drive a phaeton with bright chestnuts ? I do not know indeed . 
Yes , I know he does I saw him . 
You are talking of the man you danced with last night , are not you ? Yes . 
Well , I saw him at that moment turn up the Lansdown Road , driving a smart looking girl . 
Did you indeed ? Did upon my soul knew him again directly , and he seemed to have got some very pretty cattle too . 
It is very odd ! But I suppose they thought it would be too dirty for a walk . 
And well they might , for I never saw so much dirt in my life . 
Walk ! You could no more walk than you could fly ! It has not been so dirty the whole winter it is ankle deep everywhere . 
Isabella corroborated it My dearest Catherine , you cannot form an idea of the dirt come , you must go you cannot refuse going now . 
Shall I go , Mrs. Allen ? Just as you please , my dear . 
Mrs. Allen , you must persuade her to go , was the general cry . 
Mrs. Allen was not inattentive to it Well , my dear , said she , suppose you go . 
And in two minutes they were off . 
She could not think the Tilneys had acted quite well by her , in so readily giving up their engagement , without sending her any message of excuse . 
To feel herself slighted by them was very painful . 
They passed briskly down Pulteney Street , and through Laura Place , without the exchange of many words . 
Thorpe talked to his horse , and she meditated , by turns , on broken promises and broken arches , phaetons and false hangings , Tilneys and trap doors . 
Catherine looked round and saw Miss Tilney leaning on her brother's arm , walking slowly down the street . 
She saw them both looking back at her . 
Stop , stop , Mr. Thorpe , she impatiently cried it is Miss Tilney it is indeed . 
How could you tell me they were gone ? Stop , stop , I will get out this moment and go to them . 
Still , however , and during the length of another street , she entreated him to stop . 
Pray , pray stop , Mr. Thorpe . 
I will not go on . 
I must go back to Miss Tilney . 
Her reproaches , however , were not spared . 
I had rather , ten thousand times rather , get out now , and walk back to them . 
Their drive , even when this subject was over , was not likely to be very agreeable . 
Catherine's complaisance was no longer what it had been in their former airing . 
She listened reluctantly , and her replies were short . 
We set out a great deal too late . 
We had much better put it off till another day , and turn round . 
It is all one to me , replied Thorpe rather angrily and instantly turning his horse , they were on their way back to Bath . 
If your brother had not got such a d beast to drive , said he soon afterwards , we might have done it very well . 
Morland is a fool for not keeping a horse and gig of his own . 
No , he is not , said Catherine warmly , for I am sure he could not afford it . 
And why cannot he afford it ? Because he has not money enough . 
And whose fault is that ? Nobody's , that I know of . 
Pondering over these heart rending tidings , Catherine walked slowly upstairs . 
It was a strange , wild scheme . 
They all spent the evening together at Thorpe's . 
Her satisfaction , too , in not being at the Lower Rooms was spoken more than once . 
I would not be there for all the world . 
It is so delightful to have an evening now and then to oneself . 
I dare say it will not be a very good ball . 
I know the Mitchells will not be there . 
I am sure I pity everybody that is . 
But I dare say , Mr. Morland , you long to be at it , do not you ? I am sure you do . 
Well , pray do not let anybody here be a restraint on you . 
I dare say we could do very well without you but you men think yourselves of such consequence . 
Do not be so dull , my dearest creature , she whispered . 
You will quite break my heart . 
It was amazingly shocking , to be sure but the Tilneys were entirely to blame . 
Why were not they more punctual ? It was dirty , indeed , but what did that signify ? I am sure John and I should not have minded it . 
I never mind going through anything , where a friend is concerned that is my disposition , and John is just the same he has amazing strong feelings . 
And now I may dismiss my heroine to the sleepless couch , which is the true heroine's portion to a pillow strewed with thorns and wet with tears . 
And lucky may she think herself , if she get another good night's rest in the course of the next three months . 
CHAPTER Mrs. Allen , said Catherine the next morning , will there be any harm in my calling on Miss Tilney today ? I shall not be easy till I have explained everything . 
Go , by all means , my dear only put on a white gown Miss Tilney always wears white . 
She reached the house without any impediment , looked at the number , knocked at the door , and inquired for Miss Tilney . 
The man believed Miss Tilney to be at home , but was not quite certain . 
Would she be pleased to send up her name ? She gave her card . 
In a few minutes the servant returned , and with a look which did not quite confirm his words , said he had been mistaken , for that Miss Tilney was walked out . 
Catherine , with a blush of mortification , left the house . 
At the bottom of the street , however , she looked back again , and then , not at a window , but issuing from the door , she saw Miss Tilney herself . 
She was followed by a gentleman , whom Catherine believed to be her father , and they turned up towards Edgar's Buildings . 
Catherine , in deep mortification , proceeded on her way . 
She could almost be angry herself at such angry incivility but she checked the resentful sensation she remembered her own ignorance . 
The stage could no longer excite genuine merriment no longer keep her whole attention . 
No longer could he be suspected of indifference for a play his notice was never withdrawn from the stage during two whole scenes . 
Catherine was restlessly miserable she could almost have run round to the box in which he sat and forced him to hear her explanation . 
She was right in a few minutes he appeared , and , making his way through the then thinning rows , spoke with like calm politeness to Mrs. Allen and her friend . 
Not with such calmness was he answered by the latter Oh ! Mr. Tilney , I have been quite wild to speak to you , and make my apologies . 
Is there a Henry in the world who could be insensible to such a declaration ? Henry Tilney at least was not . 
With a yet sweeter smile , he said everything that need be said of his sister's concern , regret , and dependence on Catherine's honour . 
Perhaps you did not know I had been there . 
That was all , I do assure you . 
She was very much vexed , and meant to make her apology as soon as possible . 
I angry ! I could have no right . 
Well , nobody would have thought you had no right who saw your face . 
He replied by asking her to make room for him , and talking of the play . 
He remained with them some time , and was only too agreeable for Catherine to be contented when he went away . 
How came Mr. Thorpe to know your father ? was her anxious inquiry , as she pointed them out to her companion . 
He knew nothing about it but his father , like every military man , had a very large acquaintance . 
When the entertainment was over , Thorpe came to assist them in getting out . 
I have a great regard for him , I assure you a gentleman like , good sort of fellow as ever lived . 
But how came you to know him ? Know him ! There are few people much about town that I do not know . 
I have met him forever at the Bedford and I knew his face again today the moment he came into the billiard room . 
A very fine fellow as rich as a Jew . 
I should like to dine with him I dare say he gives famous dinners . 
But what do you think we have been talking of ? You . 
Yes , by heavens ! And the general thinks you the finest girl in Bath . 
Here Catherine , who was much less gratified by his admiration than by General Tilney's , was not sorry to be called away by Mr. Allen . 
The evening had done more , much more , for her than could have been expected . 
The Clifton scheme had been deferred , not relinquished , and on the afternoon's crescent of this day , it was brought forward again . 
The affair thus determined , and Thorpe's approbation secured , Catherine only remained to be apprised of it . 
She had left them for a few minutes to speak to Miss Tilney . 
The engagement which ought to have kept her from joining in the former attempt would make it impossible for her to accompany them now . 
She had that moment settled with Miss Tilney to take their proposed walk tomorrow it was quite determined , and she would not , upon any account , retract . 
Catherine was distressed , but not subdued . 
Do not urge me , Isabella . 
I am engaged to Miss Tilney . 
The same arguments assailed her again she must go , she should go , and they would not hear of a refusal . 
It would be so easy to tell Miss Tilney that you had just been reminded of a prior engagement , and must only beg to put off the walk till Tuesday . 
No , it would not be easy . 
I could not do it . 
There has been no prior engagement . 
But Isabella became only more and more urgent , calling on her in the most affectionate manner , addressing her by the most endearing names . 
She was sure her dearest , sweetest Catherine would not seriously refuse such a trifling request to a friend who loved her so dearly . 
She knew her beloved Catherine to have so feeling a heart , so sweet a temper , to be so easily persuaded by those she loved . 
But all in vain Catherine felt herself to be in the right , and though pained by such tender , such flattering supplication , could not allow it to influence her . 
Isabella then tried another method . 
These Tilneys seem to swallow up everything else . 
Catherine thought this reproach equally strange and unkind . 
Was it the part of a friend thus to expose her feelings to the notice of others ? Isabella appeared to her ungenerous and selfish , regardless of everything but her own gratification . 
These painful ideas crossed her mind , though she said nothing . 
Isabella , in the meanwhile , had applied her handkerchief to her eyes and Morland , miserable at such a sight , could not help saying , Nay , Catherine . 
I think you cannot stand out any longer now . 
The sacrifice is not much and to oblige such a friend I shall think you quite unkind , if you still refuse . 
This was the first time of her brother's openly siding against her , and anxious to avoid his displeasure , she proposed a compromise . 
But No , no , no ! was the immediate answer that could not be , for Thorpe did not know that he might not go to town on Tuesday . 
If Catherine does not go , I cannot . 
I cannot be the only woman . 
I would not , upon any account in the world , do so improper a thing . 
Catherine , you must go , said James . 
But why cannot Mr. Thorpe drive one of his other sisters ? I dare say either of them would like to go . 
Thank ye , cried Thorpe , but I did not come to Bath to drive my sisters about , and look like a fool . 
No , if you do not go , d me if I do . 
I only go for the sake of driving you . 
That is a compliment which gives me no pleasure . 
But her words were lost on Thorpe , who had turned abruptly away . 
At one moment she was softened , at another irritated always distressed , but always steady . 
I hope I am not less so now , she replied , very feelingly but indeed I cannot go . 
If I am wrong , I am doing what I believe to be right . 
I suspect , said Isabella , in a low voice , there is no great struggle . 
Catherine's heart swelled she drew away her arm , and Isabella made no opposition . 
I have been to Miss Tilney , and made your excuses . 
You have not ! cried Catherine . 
I have , upon my soul . 
She said very well , Tuesday was just as convenient to her so there is an end of all our difficulties . 
A pretty good thought of mine hey ? Isabella's countenance was once more all smiles and good humour , and James too looked happy again . 
A most heavenly thought indeed ! Now , my sweet Catherine , all our distresses are over you are honourably acquitted , and we shall have a most delightful party . 
This will not do , said Catherine I cannot submit to this . 
I must run after Miss Tilney directly and set her right . 
Isabella , however , caught hold of one hand , Thorpe of the other , and remonstrances poured in from all three . 
Even James was quite angry . 
When everything was settled , when Miss Tilney herself said that Tuesday would suit her as well , it was quite ridiculous , quite absurd , to make any further objection . 
Mr. Thorpe had no business to invent any such message . 
If I had thought it right to put it off , I could have spoken to Miss Tilney myself . 
Let me go , Mr. Thorpe Isabella , do not hold me . 
Then I will go after them , said Catherine wherever they are I will go after them . 
It does not signify talking . 
If I could not be persuaded into doing what I thought wrong , I never will be tricked into it . 
And with these words she broke away and hurried off . 
Thorpe would have darted after her , but Morland withheld him . 
Let her go , let her go , if she will go . 
She is as obstinate as Thorpe never finished the simile , for it could hardly have been a proper one . 
Away walked Catherine in great agitation , as fast as the crowd would permit her , fearful of being pursued , yet determined to persevere . 
As she walked , she reflected on what had passed . 
It was painful to her to disappoint and displease them , particularly to displease her brother but she could not repent her resistance . 
Then , opening the first door before her , which happened to be the right , she immediately found herself in the drawing room with General Tilney , his son , and daughter . 
Her explanation , defective only in being from her irritation of nerves and shortness of breath no explanation at all , was instantly given . 
I am come in a great hurry It was all a mistake I never promised to go I told them from the first I could not go . 
I ran away in a great hurry to explain it . 
I did not care what you thought of me . 
I would not stay for the servant . 
The business , however , though not perfectly elucidated by this speech , soon ceased to be a puzzle . 
Catherine found that John Thorpe had given the message and Miss Tilney had no scruple in owning herself greatly surprised by it . 
Whatever might have been felt before her arrival , her eager declarations immediately made every look and sentence as friendly as she could desire . 
What did William mean by it ? He should make a point of inquiring into the matter . 
And if Catherine had not most warmly asserted his innocence , it seemed likely that William would lose the favour of his master forever , if not his place , by her rapidity . 
Miss Tilney added her own wishes . 
Catherine was greatly obliged but it was quite out of her power . 
Mr. and Mrs. Allen would expect her back every moment . 
Oh , no Catherine was sure they would not have the least objection , and she should have great pleasure in coming . 
Catherine , delighted by all that had passed , proceeded gaily to Pulteney Street , walking , as she concluded , with great elasticity , though she had never thought of it before . 
to doubt whether she had been perfectly right . 
Mr. Allen caught at it directly . 
These schemes are not at all the thing . 
I am glad you do not think of going I am sure Mrs. Morland would not be pleased . 
Mrs. Allen , are not you of my way of thinking ? Do not you think these kind of projects objectionable ? Yes , very much so indeed . 
Open carriages are nasty things . 
A clean gown is not five minutes' wear in them . 
You are splashed getting in and getting out and the wind takes your hair and your bonnet in every direction . 
I hate an open carriage myself . 
I know you do but that is not the question . 
I cannot bear to see it . 
And so I should , my dear , you may depend on it for as I told Mrs. Morland at parting , I would always do the best for you in my power . 
But one must not be over particular . 
Young people will be young people , as your good mother says herself . 
You know I wanted you , when we first came , not to buy that sprigged muslin , but you would . 
Young people do not like to be always thwarted . 
But this was something of real consequence and I do not think you would have found me hard to persuade . 
That is just what I was going to say , added his wife . 
Mr. Allen , however , discouraged her from doing any such thing . 
You had better leave her alone , my dear she is old enough to know what she is about , and if not , has a mother to advise her . 
Mrs. Thorpe is too indulgent beyond a doubt but , however , you had better not interfere . 
She and your brother choose to go , and you will be only getting ill will . 
They determined on walking round Beechen Cliff , that noble hill whose beautiful verdure and hanging coppice render it so striking an object from almost every opening in Bath . 
I never look at it , said Catherine , as they walked along the side of the river , without thinking of the south of France . 
You have been abroad then ? said Henry , a little surprised . 
Oh ! No , I only mean what I have read about . 
It always puts me in mind of the country that Emily and her father travelled through , in The Mysteries of Udolpho . 
But you never read novels , I dare say ? Why not ? Because they are not clever enough for you gentlemen read better books . 
The person , be it gentleman or lady , who has not pleasure in a good novel , must be intolerably stupid . 
I have read all Mrs. Radcliffe's works , and most of them with great pleasure . 
The Mysteries of Udolpho , when I had once begun it , I could not lay down again I remember finishing it in two days my hair standing on end the whole time . 
Thank you , Eleanor a most honourable testimony . 
You see , Miss Morland , the injustice of your suspicions . 
I am proud when I reflect on it , and I think it must establish me in your good opinion . 
I am very glad to hear it indeed , and now I shall never be ashamed of liking Udolpho myself . 
But I really thought before , young men despised novels amazingly . 
It is amazingly it may well suggest amazement if they do for they read nearly as many as women . 
I myself have read hundreds and hundreds . 
Do not imagine that you can cope with me in a knowledge of Julias and Louisas . 
as far as your friend Emily herself left poor Valancourt when she went with her aunt into Italy . 
Consider how many years I have had the start of you . 
I had entered on my studies at Oxford , while you were a good little girl working your sampler at home ! Not very good , I am afraid . 
But now really , do not you think Udolpho the nicest book in the world ? The nicest by which I suppose you mean the neatest . 
That must depend upon the binding . 
Henry , said Miss Tilney , you are very impertinent . 
Miss Morland , he is treating you exactly as he does his sister . 
He is forever finding fault with me , for some incorrectness of language , and now he is taking the same liberty with you . 
Oh ! It is a very nice word indeed ! It does for everything . 
Originally perhaps it was applied only to express neatness , propriety , delicacy , or refinement people were nice in their dress , in their sentiments , or their choice . 
But now every commendation on every subject is comprised in that one word . 
While , in fact , cried his sister , it ought only to be applied to you , without any commendation at all . 
You are more nice than wise . 
Come , Miss Morland , let us leave him to meditate over our faults in the utmost propriety of diction , while we praise Udolpho in whatever terms we like best . 
It is a most interesting work . 
You are fond of that kind of reading ? To say the truth , I do not much like any other . 
Indeed ! That is , I can read poetry and plays , and things of that sort , and do not dislike travels . 
But history , real solemn history , I cannot be interested in . 
Can you ? Yes , I am fond of history . 
I wish I were too . 
I read it a little as a duty , but it tells me nothing that does not either vex or weary me . 
The speeches that are put into the heroes' mouths , their thoughts and designs the chief of all this must be invention , and invention is what delights me in other books . 
Historians , you think , said Miss Tilney , are not happy in their flights of fancy . 
They display imagination without raising interest . 
I am fond of history and am very well contented to take the false with the true . 
You are fond of history ! And so are Mr. Allen and my father and I have two brothers who do not dislike it . 
So many instances within my small circle of friends is remarkable ! At this rate , I shall not pity the writers of history any longer . 
I use the verb 'to torment , as I observed to be your own method , instead of 'to instruct , supposing them to be now admitted as synonymous . 
Consider if reading had not been taught , Mrs. Radcliffe would have written in vain or perhaps might not have written at all . 
Catherine assented and a very warm panegyric from her on that lady's merits closed the subject . 
The Tilneys were soon engaged in another on which she had nothing to say . 
They were viewing the country with the eyes of persons accustomed to drawing , and decided on its capability of being formed into pictures , with all the eagerness of real taste . 
Here Catherine was quite lost . 
The little which she could understand , however , appeared to contradict the very few notions she had entertained on the matter before . 
She was heartily ashamed of her ignorance . 
Where people wish to attach , they should always be ignorant . 
To come with a well informed mind is to come with an inability of administering to the vanity of others , which a sensible person would always wish to avoid . 
A woman especially , if she have the misfortune of knowing anything , should conceal it as well as she can . 
I have only heard that it is to be more horrible than anything we have met with yet . 
Good heaven ! Where could you hear of such a thing ? A particular friend of mine had an account of it in a letter from London yesterday . 
It is to be uncommonly dreadful . 
I shall expect murder and everything of the kind . 
Government , said Henry , endeavouring not to smile , neither desires nor dares to interfere in such matters . 
There must be murder and government cares not how much . 
He laughed , and added , Come , shall I make you understand each other , or leave you to puzzle out an explanation as you can ? No I will be noble . 
I will prove myself a man , no less by the generosity of my soul than the clearness of my head . 
I have no patience with such of my sex as disdain to let themselves sometimes down to the comprehension of yours . 
Perhaps the abilities of women are neither sound nor acute neither vigorous nor keen . 
Perhaps they may want observation , discernment , judgment , fire , genius , and wit . 
Miss Morland , do not mind what he says but have the goodness to satisfy me as to this dreadful riot . 
Riot ! What riot ? My dear Eleanor , the riot is only in your own brain . 
The confusion there is scandalous . 
The fears of the sister have added to the weakness of the woman but she is by no means a simpleton in general . 
Miss Morland is not used to your odd ways . 
I shall be most happy to make her better acquainted with them . 
No doubt but that is no explanation of the present . 
What am I to do ? You know what you ought to do . 
Clear your character handsomely before her . 
Tell her that you think very highly of the understanding of women . 
Miss Morland , I think very highly of the understanding of all the women in the world especially of those whoever they may be with whom I happen to be in company . 
Miss Morland , no one can think more highly of the understanding of women than I do . 
In my opinion , nature has given them so much that they never find it necessary to use more than half . 
We shall get nothing more serious from him now , Miss Morland . 
He is not in a sober mood . 
It was no effort to Catherine to believe that Henry Tilney could never be wrong . 
His manner might sometimes surprise , but his meaning must always be just and what she did not understand , she was almost as ready to admire , as what she did . 
No difficulty was made on Mrs. Allen's side , and the only difficulty on Catherine's was in concealing the excess of her pleasure . 
The morning had passed away so charmingly as to banish all her friendship and natural affection , for no thought of Isabella or James had crossed her during their walk . 
From her , she soon learned that the party to Clifton had taken place . 
They set off at eight this morning , said Miss Anne , and I am sure I do not envy them their drive . 
I think you and I are very well off to be out of the scrape . 
it must be the dullest thing in the world , for there is not a soul at Clifton at this time of year . 
Belle went with your brother , and John drove Maria . 
Catherine spoke the pleasure she really felt on hearing this part of the arrangement . 
Oh ! yes , rejoined the other , Maria is gone . 
She was quite wild to go . 
She thought it would be something very fine . 
I cannot say I admire her taste and for my part , I was determined from the first not to go , if they pressed me ever so much . 
Catherine , a little doubtful of this , could not help answering , I wish you could have gone too . 
It is a pity you could not all go . 
Thank you but it is quite a matter of indifference to me . 
Indeed , I would not have gone on any account . 
I was saying so to Emily and Sophia when you overtook us . 
Catherine listened with heartfelt satisfaction . 
It appeared that Blaize Castle had never been thought of and , as for all the rest , there was nothing to regret for half an instant . 
Maria's intelligence concluded with a tender effusion of pity for her sister Anne , whom she represented as insupportably cross , from being excluded the party . 
Isabella now entered the room with so eager a step , and a look of such happy importance , as engaged all her friend's notice . 
Maria was without ceremony sent away , and Isabella , embracing Catherine , thus began Yes , my dear Catherine , it is so indeed your penetration has not deceived you . 
Oh ! That arch eye of yours ! It sees through everything . 
Catherine replied only by a look of wondering ignorance . 
Nay , my beloved , sweetest friend , continued the other , compose yourself . 
I am amazingly agitated , as you perceive . 
Let us sit down and talk in comfort . 
Your brother is the most charming of men . 
I only wish I were more worthy of him . 
Her heart and faith were alike engaged to James . 
Never had Catherine listened to anything so full of interest , wonder , and joy . 
The strength of her feelings she could not express the nature of them , however , contented her friend . 
The happiness of having such a sister was their first effusion , and the fair ladies mingled in embraces and tears of joy . 
Delighting , however , as Catherine sincerely did in the prospect of the connection , it must be acknowledged that Isabella far surpassed her in tender anticipations . 
This was a pitch of friendship beyond Catherine . 
You are so like your dear brother , continued Isabella , that I quite doted on you the first moment I saw you . 
But so it always is with me the first moment settles everything . 
The very first day that Morland came to us last Christmas the very first moment I beheld him my heart was irrecoverably gone . 
Here Catherine secretly acknowledged the power of love for , though exceedingly fond of her brother , and partial to all his endowments , she had never in her life thought him handsome . 
I feel that I have betrayed myself perpetually so unguarded in speaking of my partiality for the church ! But my secret I was always sure would be safe with you . 
Catherine endeavoured to persuade her , as she was herself persuaded , that her father and mother would never oppose their son's wishes . 
It is impossible , said she , for parents to be more kind , or more desirous of their children's happiness I have no doubt of their consenting immediately . 
Morland says exactly the same , replied Isabella and yet I dare not expect it my fortune will be so small they never can consent to it . 
Your brother , who might marry anybody ! Here Catherine again discerned the force of love . 
Indeed , Isabella , you are too humble . 
The difference of fortune can be nothing to signify . 
Oh ! My sweet Catherine , in your generous heart I know it would signify nothing but we must not expect such disinterestedness in many . 
As for myself , I am sure I only wish our situations were reversed . 
Had I the command of millions , were I mistress of the whole world , your brother would be my only choice . 
I am sure they will consent , was her frequent declaration I am sure they will be delighted with you . 
For my own part , said Isabella , my wishes are so moderate that the smallest income in nature would be enough for me . 
Where people are really attached , poverty itself is wealth grandeur I detest I would not settle in London for the universe . 
A cottage in some retired village would be ecstasy . 
There are some charming little villas about Richmond . 
You must settle near Fullerton . 
You must be near us . 
I am sure I shall be miserable if we do not . 
If I can but be near you , I shall be satisfied . 
But this is idle talking ! I will not allow myself to think of such things , till we have your father's answer . 
Morland says that by sending it tonight to Salisbury , we may have it tomorrow . 
Tomorrow ? I know I shall never have courage to open the letter . 
I know it will be the death of me . 
A reverie succeeded this conviction and when Isabella spoke again , it was to resolve on the quality of her wedding gown . 
Their conference was put an end to by the anxious young lover himself , who came to breathe his parting sigh before he set off for Wiltshire . 
Catherine wished to congratulate him , but knew not what to say , and her eloquence was only in her eyes . 
From them , however , the eight parts of speech shone out most expressively , and James could combine them with ease . 
Twice was he called almost from the door by her eagerness to have him gone . 
Indeed , Morland , I must drive you away . 
Consider how far you have to ride . 
I cannot bear to see you linger so . 
For heaven's sake , waste no more time . 
There , go , go I insist on it . 
The two friends , with hearts now more united than ever , were inseparable for the day and in schemes of sisterly happiness the hours flew along . 
Mrs. Thorpe , with tears of joy , embraced her daughter , her son , her visitor , and could have embraced half the inhabitants of Bath with satisfaction . 
Her heart was overflowing with tenderness . 
John himself was no skulker in joy . 
He not only bestowed on Mr. Morland the high commendation of being one of the finest fellows in the world , but swore off many sentences in his praise . 
The letter , whence sprang all this felicity , was short , containing little more than this assurance of success and every particular was deferred till James could write again . 
But for particulars Isabella could well afford to wait . 
She knew enough to feel secure of an honourable and speedy establishment , and her imagination took a rapid flight over its attendant felicities . 
When the contents of the letter were ascertained , John Thorpe , who had only waited its arrival to begin his journey to London , prepared to set off . 
Well , Miss Morland , said he , on finding her alone in the parlour , I am come to bid you good bye . 
Catherine wished him a good journey . 
Without appearing to hear her , he walked to the window , fidgeted about , hummed a tune , and seemed wholly self occupied . 
Shall not you be late at Devizes ? said Catherine . 
He made no answer but after a minute's silence burst out with , A famous good thing this marrying scheme , upon my soul ! A clever fancy of Morland's and Belle's . 
What do you think of it , Miss Morland ? I say it is no bad notion . 
I am sure I think it a very good one . 
Do you ? That's honest , by heavens ! I am glad you are no enemy to matrimony , however . 
Did you ever hear the old song 'Going to One Wedding Brings on Another ? I say , you will come to Belle's wedding , I hope . 
Yes I have promised your sister to be with her , if possible . 
And then you know twisting himself about and forcing a foolish laugh I say , then you know , we may try the truth of this same old song . 
May we ? But I never sing . 
Well , I wish you a good journey . 
I dine with Miss Tilney today , and must now be going home . 
Nay , but there is no such confounded hurry . 
Then why do you stay away so long ? replied Catherine finding that he waited for an answer . 
That is kind of you , however kind and good natured . 
I shall not forget it in a hurry . 
But you have more good nature and all that , than anybody living , I believe . 
Oh ! dear , there are a great many people like me , I dare say , only a great deal better . 
But I say , Miss Morland , I shall come and pay my respects at Fullerton before it is long , if not disagreeable . 
My father and mother will be very glad to see you . 
And I hope I hope , Miss Morland , you will not be sorry to see me . 
Oh ! dear , not at all . 
There are very few people I am sorry to see . 
That is just my way of thinking . 
But I have a notion , Miss Morland , you and I think pretty much alike upon most matters . 
Perhaps we may but it is more than I ever thought of . 
And as to most matters , to say the truth , there are not many that I know my own mind about . 
By Jove , no more do I. It is not my way to bother my brains with what does not concern me . 
My notion of things is simple enough . 
Let me only have the girl I like , say I , with a comfortable house over my head , and what care I for all the rest ? Fortune is nothing . 
I am sure of a good income of my own and if she had not a penny , why , so much the better . 
I think like you there . 
If there is a good fortune on one side , there can be no occasion for any on the other . 
No matter which has it , so that there is enough . 
I hate the idea of one great fortune looking out for another . 
And to marry for money I think the wickedest thing in existence . 
We shall be very glad to see you at Fullerton , whenever it is convenient . 
It was not in the power of all his gallantry to detain her longer . 
It was to Catherine the most surprising insensibility . 
The disclosure , however , of the great secret of James's going to Fullerton the day before , did raise some emotion in Mrs. Allen . 
It puzzled her to account for all this . 
It could not be General Tilney's fault . 
That he was perfectly agreeable and good natured , and altogether a very charming man , did not admit of a doubt , for he was tall and handsome , and Henry's father . 
He could not be accountable for his children's want of spirits , or for her want of enjoyment in his company . 
The former she hoped at last might have been accidental , and the latter she could only attribute to her own stupidity . 
Oh ! Don't defend her ! And then the brother , he , who had appeared so attached to you ! Good heavens ! Well , some people's feelings are incomprehensible . 
And so he hardly looked once at you the whole day ? I do not say so but he did not seem in good spirits . 
How contemptible ! Of all things in the world inconstancy is my aversion . 
Let me entreat you never to think of him again , my dear Catherine indeed he is unworthy of you . 
Unworthy ! I do not suppose he ever thinks of me . 
That is exactly what I say he never thinks of you . 
Such fickleness ! Oh ! How different to your brother and to mine ! I really believe John has the most constant heart . 
Oh ! I know no harm of him I do not suspect him of pride . 
I believe he is a very gentleman like man . 
John thinks very well of him , and John's judgment Well , I shall see how they behave to me this evening we shall meet them at the rooms . 
And must I go ? Do not you intend it ? I thought it was all settled . 
Nay , since you make such a point of it , I can refuse you nothing . 
But do not insist upon my being very agreeable , for my heart , you know , will be some forty miles off . 
And as for dancing , do not mention it , I beg that is quite out of the question . 
Charles Hodges will plague me to death , I dare say but I shall cut him very short . 
Ten to one but he guesses the reason , and that is exactly what I want to avoid , so I shall insist on his keeping his conjecture to himself . 
At the end of the first dance , Captain Tilney came towards them again , and , much to Catherine's dissatisfaction , pulled his brother away . 
Catherine , without hesitation , replied that she was very sure Miss Thorpe did not mean to dance at all . 
The cruel reply was passed on to the other , and he immediately walked away . 
I suppose he saw Isabella sitting down , and fancied she might wish for a partner but he is quite mistaken , for she would not dance upon any account in the world . 
Henry smiled , and said , How very little trouble it can give you to understand the motive of other people's actions . 
Then we are on very unequal terms , for I understand you perfectly well . 
Me ? Yes I cannot speak well enough to be unintelligible . 
Bravo ! An excellent satire on modern language . 
But pray tell me what you mean . 
No , no it shall not do either I am not afraid . 
Catherine blushed and disclaimed , and the gentleman's predictions were verified . 
I cannot think how it could happen ! Isabella was so determined not to dance . 
The fairness of your friend was an open attraction her firmness , you know , could only be understood by yourself . 
You are laughing but , I assure you , Isabella is very firm in general . 
It is as much as should be said of anyone . 
To be always firm must be to be often obstinate . 
He is such a rattle ! Amusing enough , if my mind had been disengaged but I would have given the world to sit still . 
Then why did not you ? Oh ! My dear ! It would have looked so particular and you know how I abhor doing that . 
I refused him as long as I possibly could , but he would take no denial . 
You have no idea how he pressed me . 
He is very handsome indeed . 
Handsome ! Yes , I suppose he may . 
I dare say people would admire him in general but he is not at all in my style of beauty . 
I hate a florid complexion and dark eyes in a man . 
However , he is very well . 
Amazingly conceited , I am sure . 
I took him down several times , you know , in my way . 
When the young ladies next met , they had a far more interesting subject to discuss . 
James Morland's second letter was then received , and the kind intentions of his father fully explained . 
An estate of at least equal value , moreover , was assured as his future inheritance . 
It is very charming indeed , said Isabella , with a grave face . 
Mr. Morland has behaved vastly handsome indeed , said the gentle Mrs. Thorpe , looking anxiously at her daughter . 
I only wish I could do as much . 
One could not expect more from him , you know . 
If he finds he can do more by and by , I dare say he will , for I am sure he must be an excellent good hearted man . 
For myself , it is nothing I never think of myself . 
I know you never do , my dear and you will always find your reward in the affection it makes everybody feel for you . 
Mr. Morland has behaved so very handsome , you know . 
Nobody can think better of Mr. Morland than I do , I am sure . 
But everybody has their failing , you know , and everybody has a right to do what they like with their own money . 
Catherine was hurt by these insinuations . 
I am very sure , said she , that my father has promised to do as much as he can afford . 
As to that , my sweet Catherine , there cannot be a doubt , and you know me well enough to be sure that a much smaller income would satisfy me . 
Ah ! my Catherine , you have found me out . 
The long , long , endless two years and half that are to pass before your brother can hold the living . 
Yes , yes , my darling Isabella , said Mrs. Thorpe , we perfectly see into your heart . 
We perfectly understand the present vexation and everybody must love you the better for such a noble honest affection . 
Catherine's uncomfortable feelings began to lessen . 
James soon followed his letter , and was received with the most gratifying kindness . 
To have her acquaintance with the Tilneys end so soon was an evil which nothing could counterbalance . 
Her whole happiness seemed at stake , while the affair was in suspense , and everything secured when it was determined that the lodgings should be taken for another fortnight . 
What this additional fortnight was to produce to her beyond the pleasure of sometimes seeing Henry Tilney made but a small part of Catherine's speculation . 
In the course of the morning which saw this business arranged , she visited Miss Tilney , and poured forth her joyful feelings . 
It was doomed to be a day of trial . 
No sooner had she expressed her delight in Mr. Allen's lengthened stay than Miss Tilney told her of her father's having just determined upon quitting Bath by the end of another week . 
Here was a blow ! The past suspense of the morning had been ease and quiet to the present disappointment . 
He has been disappointed of some friends' arrival whom he expected to meet here , and as he is now pretty well , is in a hurry to get home . 
Well , proceed by all means . 
I know how much your heart is in it . 
My daughter , Miss Morland , he continued , without leaving his daughter time to speak , has been forming a very bold wish . 
We leave Bath , as she has perhaps told you , on Saturday se'nnight . 
And could we carry our selfish point with you , we should leave it without a single regret . 
Modesty such as yours but not for the world would I pain it by open praise . 
If you can be induced to honour us with a visit , you will make us happy beyond expression . 
Northanger Abbey ! These were thrilling words , and wound up Catherine's feelings to the highest point of ecstasy . 
Her grateful and gratified heart could hardly restrain its expressions within the language of tolerable calmness . 
Since they can consent to part with you , said he , we may expect philosophy from all the world . 
Miss Tilney was earnest , though gentle , in her secondary civilities , and the affair became in a few minutes as nearly settled as this necessary reference to Fullerton would allow . 
This indulgence , though not more than Catherine had hoped for , completed her conviction of being favoured beyond every other human creature , in friends and fortune , circumstance and chance . 
Everything seemed to cooperate for her advantage . 
By the kindness of her first friends , the Allens , she had been introduced into scenes where pleasures of every kind had met her . 
Her feelings , her preferences , had each known the happiness of a return . 
Wherever she felt attachment , she had been able to create it . 
The affection of Isabella was to be secured to her in a sister . 
And yet , this was to happen . 
With all the chances against her of house , hall , place , park , court , and cottage , Northanger turned up an abbey , and she was to be its inhabitant . 
It was wonderful that her friends should seem so little elated by the possession of such a home , that the consciousness of it should be so meekly borne . 
The power of early habit only could account for it . 
A distinction to which they had been born gave no pride . 
Their superiority of abode was no more to them than their superiority of person . 
CHAPTER With a mind thus full of happiness , Catherine was hardly aware that two or three days had passed away , without her seeing Isabella for more than a few minutes together . 
Psha ! My dear creature , she replied , do not think me such a simpleton as to be always wanting to confine him to my elbow . 
It would be hideous to be always together we should be the jest of the place . 
And so you are going to Northanger ! I am amazingly glad of it . 
It is one of the finest old places in England , I understand . 
I shall depend upon a most particular description of it . 
You shall certainly have the best in my power to give . 
But who are you looking for ? Are your sisters coming ? I am not looking for anybody . 
One's eyes must be somewhere , and you know what a foolish trick I have of fixing mine , when my thoughts are an hundred miles off . 
I am amazingly absent I believe I am the most absent creature in the world . 
Tilney says it is always the case with minds of a certain stamp . 
But I thought , Isabella , you had something in particular to tell me ? Oh ! Yes , and so I have . 
But here is a proof of what I was saying . 
My poor head , I had quite forgot it . 
Well , the thing is this I have just had a letter from John you can guess the contents . 
No , indeed , I cannot . 
My sweet love , do not be so abominably affected . 
What can he write about , but yourself ? You know he is over head and ears in love with you . 
I have no idea of being so overstrained ! It is fishing for compliments . 
His attentions were such as a child must have noticed . 
And it was but half an hour before he left Bath that you gave him the most positive encouragement . 
So it is in vain to affect ignorance . 
And as to making me an offer , or anything like it , there must be some unaccountable , mistake . 
The last half hour before he went away ! It must be all and completely a mistake for I did not see him once that whole morning . 
Are you ? Well , if you say it , it was so , I dare say but for the life of me , I cannot recollect it . 
I am excessively concerned that he should have any regard for me but indeed it has been quite unintentional on my side I never had the smallest idea of it . 
My dear friend , you must not be angry with me . 
I cannot suppose your brother cares so very much about me . 
And , you know , we shall still be sisters . 
, there are more ways than one of our being sisters . 
Since that is the case , I am sure I shall not tease you any further . 
John desired me to speak to you on the subject , and therefore I have . 
I only wonder John could think of it he could not have received my last . 
All that is best known to yourself . 
A little harmless flirtation or so will occur , and one is often drawn on to give more encouragement than one wishes to stand by . 
But you may be assured that I am the last person in the world to judge you severely . 
All those things should be allowed for in youth and high spirits . 
What one means one day , you know , one may not mean the next . 
Circumstances change , opinions alter . 
But my opinion of your brother never did alter it was always the same . 
You are describing what never happened . 
What I say is , why should a brother's happiness be dearer to me than a friend's ? You know I carry my notions of friendship pretty high . 
But , above all things , my dear Catherine , do not be in a hurry . 
Take my word for it , that if you are in too great a hurry , you will certainly live to repent it . 
Tilney says there is nothing people are so often deceived in as the state of their own affections , and I believe he is very right . 
Ah ! Here he comes never mind , he will not see us , I am sure . 
Catherine , looking up , perceived Captain Tilney and Isabella , earnestly fixing her eye on him as she spoke , soon caught his notice . 
He approached immediately , and took the seat to which her movements invited him . 
His first address made Catherine start . 
Though spoken low , she could distinguish , What ! Always to be watched , in person or by proxy ! Psha , nonsense ! was Isabella's answer in the same half whisper . 
Why do you put such things into my head ? If I could believe it my spirit , you know , is pretty independent . 
I wish your heart were independent . 
That would be enough for me . 
My heart , indeed ! What can you have to do with hearts ? You men have none of you any hearts . 
If we have not hearts , we have eyes and they give us torment enough . 
Do they ? I am sorry for it I am sorry they find anything so disagreeable in me . 
I will look another way . 
I hope your eyes are not tormented now . 
Never more so for the edge of a blooming cheek is still in view at once too much and too little . 
Catherine heard all this , and quite out of countenance , could listen no longer . 
Amazed that Isabella could endure it , and jealous for her brother , she rose up , and saying she should join Mrs. Allen , proposed their walking . 
But for this Isabella showed no inclination . 
With much uneasiness did she thus leave them . 
To doubt her truth or good intentions was impossible and yet , during the whole of their conversation her manner had been odd . 
She wished Isabella had talked more like her usual self , and not so much about money , and had not looked so well pleased at the sight of Captain Tilney . 
The compliment of John Thorpe's affection did not make amends for this thoughtlessness in his sister . 
In vanity , therefore , she gained but little her chief profit was in wonder . 
That he should think it worth his while to fancy himself in love with her was a matter of lively astonishment . 
CHAPTER A few days passed away , and Catherine , though not allowing herself to suspect her friend , could not help watching her closely . 
The result of her observations was not agreeable . 
Isabella seemed an altered creature . 
What could be meant by such unsteady conduct , what her friend could be at , was beyond her comprehension . 
Isabella could not be aware of the pain she was inflicting but it was a degree of wilful thoughtlessness which Catherine could not but resent . 
She saw him grave and uneasy and however careless of his present comfort the woman might be who had given him her heart , to her it was always an object . 
For poor Captain Tilney too she was greatly concerned . 
He might be jealous of her brother as a rival , but if more bad seemed implied , the fault must have been in her misapprehension . 
If able to suggest a hint , Isabella could never understand it . 
But Captain Tilney had at present no intention of removing he was not to be of the party to Northanger he was to continue at Bath . 
When Catherine knew this , her resolution was directly made . 
She spoke to Henry Tilney on the subject , regretting his brother's evident partiality for Miss Thorpe , and entreating him to make known her prior engagement . 
My brother does know it , was Henry's answer . 
Pray advise him for his own sake , and for everybody's sake , to leave Bath directly . 
Absence will in time make him comfortable again but he can have no hope here , and it is only staying to be miserable . 
Henry smiled and said , I am sure my brother would not wish to do that . 
Then you will persuade him to go away ? Persuasion is not at command but pardon me , if I cannot even endeavour to persuade him . 
I have myself told him that Miss Thorpe is engaged . 
He knows what he is about , and must be his own master . 
No , he does not know what he is about , cried Catherine he does not know the pain he is giving my brother . 
Not that James has ever told me so , but I am sure he is very uncomfortable . 
And are you sure it is my brother's doing ? Yes , very sure . 
No man is offended by another man's admiration of the woman he loves it is the woman only who can make it a torment . 
Catherine blushed for her friend , and said , Isabella is wrong . 
But I am sure she cannot mean to torment , for she is very much attached to my brother . 
She has been in love with him ever since they first met , and while my father's consent was uncertain , she fretted herself almost into a fever . 
You know she must be attached to him . 
I understand she is in love with James , and flirts with Frederick . 
Oh ! no , not flirts . 
A woman in love with one man cannot flirt with another . 
It is probable that she will neither love so well , nor flirt so well , as she might do either singly . 
The gentlemen must each give up a little . 
After a short pause , Catherine resumed with , Then you do not believe Isabella so very much attached to my brother ? I can have no opinion on that subject . 
But what can your brother mean ? If he knows her engagement , what can he mean by his behaviour ? You are a very close questioner . 
Am I ? I only ask what I want to be told . 
But do you only ask what I can be expected to tell ? Yes , I think so for you must know your brother's heart . 
My brother's heart , as you term it , on the present occasion , I assure you I can only guess at . 
Well ? Well ! Nay , if it is to be guesswork , let us all guess for ourselves . 
To be guided by second hand conjecture is pitiful . 
The premises are before you . 
Well , said Catherine , after some moments' consideration , you may be able to guess at your brother's intentions from all this but I am sure I cannot . 
But is not your father uncomfortable about it ? Does not he want Captain Tilney to go away ? Sure , if your father were to speak to him , he would go . 
I will not say , 'Do not be uneasy , because I know that you are so , at this moment but be as little uneasy as you can . 
His leave of absence will soon expire , and he must return to his regiment . 
And what will then be their acquaintance ? The mess room will drink Isabella Thorpe for a fortnight , and she will laugh with your brother over poor Tilney's passion for a month . 
Catherine would contend no longer against comfort . 
She had resisted its approaches during the whole length of a speech , but it now carried her captive . 
Henry Tilney must know best . 
She blamed herself for the extent of her fears , and resolved never to think so seriously on the subject again . 
Her resolution was supported by Isabella's behaviour in their parting interview . 
The Thorpes spent the last evening of Catherine's stay in Pulteney Street , and nothing passed between the lovers to excite her uneasiness , or make her quit them in apprehension . 
James was in excellent spirits , and Isabella most engagingly placid . 
The embraces , tears , and promises of the parting fair ones may be fancied . 
Nay , perverse as it seemed , she doubted whether she might not have felt less , had she been less attended to . 
She felt utterly unworthy of such respect , and knew not how to reply to it . 
Her tranquillity was not improved by the general's impatience for the appearance of his eldest son , nor by the displeasure he expressed at his laziness when Captain Tilney at last came down . 
This was placing her in a very uncomfortable situation , and she felt great compassion for Captain Tilney , without being able to hope for his goodwill . 
The bustle of going was not pleasant . 
The clock struck ten while the trunks were carrying down , and the general had fixed to be out of Milsom Street by that hour . 
His greatcoat , instead of being brought for him to put on directly , was spread out in the curricle in which he was to accompany his son . 
His sister , he said , was uncomfortably circumstanced she had no female companion and , in the frequent absence of her father , was sometimes without any companion at all . 
But how can that be ? said Catherine . 
How sorry you must be for that ! I am always sorry to leave Eleanor . 
He smiled , and said , You have formed a very favourable idea of the abbey . 
To be sure , I have . 
introduced into a dwelling of this kind , she is always lodged apart from the rest of the family . 
Dorothy , meanwhile , no less struck by your appearance , gazes on you in great agitation , and drops a few unintelligible hints . 
Oh ! Mr. Tilney , how frightful ! This is just like a book ! But it cannot really happen to me . 
I am sure your housekeeper is not really Dorothy . 
Well , what then ? Nothing further to alarm perhaps may occur the first night . 
After surmounting your unconquerable horror of the bed , you will retire to rest , and get a few hours' unquiet slumber . 
But on the second , or at farthest the third night after your arrival , you will probably have a violent storm . 
one part of the hanging more violently agitated than the rest . 
No , indeed I should be too much frightened to do any such thing . 
What ! Not when Dorothy has given you to understand that there is a secret subterraneous communication between your apartment and the chapel of St . 
Oh ! No , no do not say so . 
Miss Tilney , she was sure , would never put her into such a chamber as he had described ! She was not at all afraid . 
She knew not that she had any right to be surprised , but there was a something in this mode of approach which she certainly had not expected . 
She was not long at leisure , however , for such considerations . 
The furniture was in all the profusion and elegance of modern taste . 
CHAPTER A moment's glance was enough to satisfy Catherine that her apartment was very unlike the one which Henry had endeavoured to alarm her by the description of . 
It was by no means unreasonably large , and contained neither tapestry nor velvet . 
Her heart instantaneously at ease on this point , she resolved to lose no time in particular examination of anything , as she greatly dreaded disobliging the general by any delay . 
If I stay till evening my candle may go out . 
Catherine bent over it intently , but without being able to distinguish anything with certainty . 
At length , however , having slipped one arm into her gown , her toilette seemed so nearly finished that the impatience of her curiosity might safely be indulged . 
With this spirit she sprang forward , and her confidence did not deceive her . 
That is a curious old chest , is not it ? said Miss Tilney , as Catherine hastily closed it and turned away to the glass . 
It is impossible to say how many generations it has been here . 
The worst of it is that its weight makes it difficult to open . 
In that corner , however , it is at least out of the way . 
Catherine had no leisure for speech , being at once blushing , tying her gown , and forming wise resolutions with the most violent dispatch . 
The general's good humour increased . 
Mr. Allen's house , he was sure , must be exactly of the true size for rational happiness . 
The evening passed without any further disturbance , and , in the occasional absence of General Tilney , with much positive cheerfulness . 
The night was stormy the wind had been rising at intervals the whole afternoon and by the time the party broke up , it blew and rained violently . 
Henry had certainly been only in jest in what he had told her that morning . 
She looked round the room . 
The window curtains seemed in motion . 
She should take her time she should not hurry herself she did not care if she were the last person up in the house . 
But she would not make up her fire that would seem cowardly , as if she wished for the protection of light after she were in bed . 
In short , she could not sleep till she had examined it . 
So , placing the candle with great caution on a chair , she seized the key with a very tremulous hand and tried to turn it but it resisted her utmost strength . 
Alarmed , but not discouraged , she tried it another way a bolt flew , and she believed herself successful but how strangely mysterious ! The door was still immovable . 
She paused a moment in breathless wonder . 
The wind roared down the chimney , the rain beat in torrents against the windows , and everything seemed to speak the awfulness of her situation . 
Catherine's heart beat quick , but her courage did not fail her . 
With a cheek flushed by hope , and an eye straining with curiosity , her fingers grasped the handle of a drawer and drew it forth . 
With less alarm and greater eagerness she seized a second , a third , a fourth each was equally empty . 
Not one was left unsearched , and in not one was anything found . 
Well read in the art of concealing a treasure , the possibility of false linings to the drawers did not escape her , and she felt round each with anxious acuteness in vain . 
Her heart fluttered , her knees trembled , and her cheeks grew pale . 
Alas ! It was snuffed and extinguished in one . 
A lamp could not have expired with more awful effect . 
Catherine , for a few moments , was motionless with horror . 
It was done completely not a remnant of light in the wick could give hope to the rekindling breath . 
Darkness impenetrable and immovable filled the room . 
A violent gust of wind , rising with sudden fury , added fresh horror to the moment . 
Catherine trembled from head to foot . 
In the pause which succeeded , a sound like receding footsteps and the closing of a distant door struck on her affrighted ear . 
Human nature could support no more . 
To close her eyes in sleep that night , she felt must be entirely out of the question . 
With a curiosity so justly awakened , and feelings in every way so agitated , repose must be absolutely impossible . 
The storm too abroad so dreadful ! She had not been used to feel alarm from wind , but now every blast seemed fraught with awful intelligence . 
But many were the tedious hours which must yet intervene . 
She shuddered , tossed about in her bed , and envied every quiet sleeper . 
The storm still raged , and various were the noises , more terrific even than the wind , which struck at intervals on her startled ear . 
The very curtains of her bed seemed at one moment in motion , and at another the lock of her door was agitated , as if by the attempt of somebody to enter . 
Hollow murmurs seemed to creep along the gallery , and more than once her blood was chilled by the sound of distant moans . 
Hour after hour passed away , and the wearied Catherine had heard three proclaimed by all the clocks in the house before the tempest subsided or she unknowingly fell fast asleep . 
Her greedy eye glanced rapidly over a page . 
She started at its import . 
She seized another sheet , and saw the same articles with little variation a third , a fourth , and a fifth presented nothing new . 
Shirts , stockings , cravats , and waistcoats faced her in each . 
Two others , penned by the same hand , marked an expenditure scarcely more interesting , in letters , hair powder , shoe string , and breeches ball . 
which had filled her with expectation and alarm , and robbed her of half her night's rest ! She felt humbled to the dust . 
Could not the adventure of the chest have taught her wisdom ? A corner of it , catching her eye as she lay , seemed to rise up in judgment against her . 
Nothing could now be clearer than the absurdity of her recent fancies . 
This was the only comfort that occurred . 
Why the locks should have been so difficult to open , however , was still something remarkable , for she could now manage them with perfect ease . 
For the world would she not have her weakness suspected , and yet , unequal to an absolute falsehood , was constrained to acknowledge that the wind had kept her awake a little . 
But we have a charming morning after it , she added , desiring to get rid of the subject and storms and sleeplessness are nothing when they are over . 
What beautiful hyacinths ! I have just learnt to love a hyacinth . 
And how might you learn ? By accident or argument ? Your sister taught me I cannot tell how . 
But now you love a hyacinth . 
You have gained a new source of enjoyment , and it is well to have as many holds upon happiness as possible . 
The pleasure of walking and breathing fresh air is enough for me , and in fine weather I am out more than half my time . 
Mamma says I am never within . 
At any rate , however , I am pleased that you have learnt to love a hyacinth . 
The mere habit of learning to love is the thing and a teachableness of disposition in a young lady is a great blessing . 
The elegance of the breakfast set forced itself on Catherine's notice when they were seated at table and , lucidly , it had been the general's choice . 
But this was quite an old set , purchased two years ago . 
He trusted , however , that an opportunity might ere long occur of selecting one though not for himself . 
Catherine was probably the only one of the party who did not understand him . 
Shortly after breakfast Henry left them for Woodston , where business required and would keep him two or three days . 
This is a somewhat heavy call upon your brother's fortitude , observed the general to Eleanor . 
Woodston will make but a sombre appearance today . 
Is it a pretty place ? asked Catherine . 
What say you , Eleanor ? Speak your opinion , for ladies can best tell the taste of ladies in regard to places as well as men . 
I think it would be acknowledged by the most impartial eye to have many recommendations . 
It is a family living , Miss Morland and the property in the place being chiefly my own , you may believe I take care that it shall not be a bad one . 
Did Henry's income depend solely on this living , he would not be ill provided for . 
The money is nothing , it is not an object , but employment is the thing . 
Even Frederick , my eldest son , you see , who will perhaps inherit as considerable a landed property as any private man in the county , has his profession . 
The imposing effect of this last argument was equal to his wishes . 
The silence of the lady proved it to be unanswerable . 
The netting box , just leisurely drawn forth , was closed with joyful haste , and she was ready to attend him in a moment . 
And when they had gone over the house , he promised himself moreover the pleasure of accompanying her into the shrubberies and garden . 
But perhaps it might be more agreeable to her to make those her first object . 
The weather was at present favourable , and at this time of year the uncertainty was very great of its continuing so . 
Which would she prefer ? He was equally at her service . 
Which did his daughter think would most accord with her fair friend's wishes ? But he thought he could discern . 
Yes , he certainly read in Miss Morland's eyes a judicious desire of making use of the present smiling weather . 
But when did she judge amiss ? The abbey would be always safe and dry . 
He yielded implicitly , and would fetch his hat and attend them in a moment . 
Catherine did not exactly know how this was to be understood . 
Why was Miss Tilney embarrassed ? Could there be any unwillingness on the general's side to show her over the abbey ? The proposal was his own . 
And was not it odd that he should always take his walk so early ? Neither her father nor Mr. Allen did so . 
It was certainly very provoking . 
She was all impatience to see the house , and had scarcely any curiosity about the grounds . 
If Henry had been with them indeed ! But now she should not know what was picturesque when she saw it . 
Such were her thoughts , but she kept them to herself , and put on her bonnet in patient discontent . 
She was struck , however , beyond her expectation , by the grandeur of the abbey , as she saw it for the first time from the lawn . 
The whole building enclosed a large court and two sides of the quadrangle , rich in Gothic ornaments , stood forward for admiration . 
Catherine had seen nothing to compare with it and her feelings of delight were so strong , that without waiting for any better authority , she boldly burst forth in wonder and praise . 
The general listened with assenting gratitude and it seemed as if his own estimation of Northanger had waited unfixed till that hour . 
The kitchen garden was to be next admired , and he led the way to it across a small portion of the park . 
The walls seemed countless in number , endless in length a village of hot houses seemed to arise among them , and a whole parish to be at work within the enclosure . 
If he had a hobby horse , it was that . 
Though careless enough in most matters of eating , he loved good fruit or if he did not , his friends and children did . 
There were great vexations , however , attending such a garden as his . 
The utmost care could not always secure the most valuable fruits . 
The pinery had yielded only one hundred in the last year . 
Mr. Allen , he supposed , must feel these inconveniences as well as himself . 
No , not at all . 
Mr. Allen did not care about the garden , and never went into it . 
How were Mr. Allen's succession houses worked ? describing the nature of his own as they entered them . 
Mr. Allen had only one small hot house , which Mrs. Allen had the use of for her plants in winter , and there was a fire in it now and then . 
He is a happy man ! said the general , with a look of very happy contempt . 
But where are you going , Eleanor ? Why do you choose that cold , damp path to it ? Miss Morland will get wet . 
Our best way is across the park . 
This is so favourite a walk of mine , said Miss Tilney , that I always think it the best and nearest way . 
But perhaps it may be damp . 
He perceived her inclination , and having again urged the plea of health in vain , was too polite to make further opposition . 
He excused himself , however , from attending them The rays of the sun were not too cheerful for him , and he would meet them by another course . 
He turned away and Catherine was shocked to find how much her spirits were relieved by the separation . 
The shock , however , being less real than the relief , offered it no injury and she began to talk with easy gaiety of the delightful melancholy which such a grove inspired . 
I am particularly fond of this spot , said her companion , with a sigh . 
It was my mother's favourite walk . 
I used to walk here so often with her ! added Eleanor though I never loved it then , as I have loved it since . 
At that time indeed I used to wonder at her choice . 
But her memory endears it now . 
And ought it not , reflected Catherine , to endear it to her husband ? Yet the general would not enter it . 
Miss Tilney continuing silent , she ventured to say , Her death must have been a great affliction ! A great and increasing one , replied the other , in a low voice . 
To be sure you must miss him very much . 
A mother would have been always present . 
A mother would have been a constant friend her influence would have been beyond all other . 
Of her unhappiness in marriage , she felt persuaded . 
The general certainly had been an unkind husband . 
Soon after her death I obtained it for my own , and hung it in my bed chamber where I shall be happy to show it you it is very like . 
Yes , aversion ! His cruelty to such a charming woman made him odious to her . 
She had often read of such characters , characters which Mr. Allen had been used to call unnatural and overdrawn but here was proof positive of the contrary . 
He would follow them in a quarter of an hour . 
Again they parted but Eleanor was called back in half a minute to receive a strict charge against taking her friend round the abbey till his return . 
This second instance of his anxiety to delay what she so much wished for struck Catherine as very remarkable . 
CHAPTER An hour passed away before the general came in , spent , on the part of his young guest , in no very favourable consideration of his character . 
This lengthened absence , these solitary rambles , did not speak a mind at ease , or a conscience void of reproach . 
At length he appeared and , whatever might have been the gloom of his meditations , he could still smile with them . 
But suites of apartments did not spring up with her wishes . 
His endowments of this spot alone might at any time have placed him high among the benefactors of the convent . 
All that was venerable ceased here . 
They took a slight survey of all and Catherine was impressed , beyond her expectation , by their multiplicity and their convenience . 
The purposes for which a few shapeless pantries and a comfortless scullery were deemed sufficient at Fullerton , were here carried on in appropriate divisions , commodious and roomy . 
The number of servants continually appearing did not strike her less than the number of their offices . 
Wherever they went , some pattened girl stopped to curtsy , or some footman in dishabille sneaked off . 
How they could get through it all had often amazed Mrs. Allen and , when Catherine saw what was necessary here , she began to be amazed herself . 
She felt the unexpected compliment , and deeply regretted the impossibility of thinking well of a man so kindly disposed towards herself , and so full of civility to all her family . 
The general's evident desire of preventing such an examination was an additional stimulant . 
Catherine understood her the general must be watched from home , before that room could be entered . 
It remains as it was , I suppose ? said she , in a tone of feeling . 
And how long ago may it be that your mother died ? She has been dead these nine years . 
And nine years , Catherine knew , was a trifle of time , compared with what generally elapsed after the death of an injured wife , before her room was put to rights . 
You were with her , I suppose , to the last ? No , said Miss Tilney , sighing I was unfortunately from home . 
Her illness was sudden and short and , before I arrived it was all over . 
Catherine's blood ran cold with the horrid suggestions which naturally sprang from these words . 
My father , she whispered , often walks about the room in this way it is nothing unusual . 
So much the worse ! thought Catherine such ill timed exercise was of a piece with the strange unseasonableness of his morning walks , and boded nothing good . 
When the butler would have lit his master's candle , however , he was forbidden . 
The latter was not going to retire . 
Can either of us be more meetly employed ? My eyes will be blinding for the good of others , and yours preparing by rest for future mischief . 
But neither the business alleged , nor the magnificent compliment , could win Catherine from thinking that some very different object must occasion so serious a delay of proper repose . 
To be kept up for hours , after the family were in bed , by stupid pamphlets was not very likely . 
Shocking as was the idea , it was at least better than a death unfairly hastened , as , in the natural course of things , she must ere long be released . 
The suddenness of her reputed illness , the absence of her daughter , and probably of her other children , at the time all favoured the supposition of her imprisonment . 
Its origin jealousy perhaps , or wanton cruelty was yet to be unravelled . 
The various ascending noises convinced her that the servants must still be up . 
The clock struck twelve and Catherine had been half an hour asleep . 
CHAPTER The next day afforded no opportunity for the proposed examination of the mysterious apartments . 
The day was unmarked therefore by anything to interest her imagination beyond the sight of a very elegant monument to the memory of Mrs. Tilney , which immediately fronted the family pew . 
Not , however , that many instances of beings equally hardened in guilt might not be produced . 
The erection of the monument itself could not in the smallest degree affect her doubts of Mrs. Tilney's actual decease . 
The succeeding morning promised something better . 
Eleanor was ready to oblige her and Catherine reminding her as they went of another promise , their first visit in consequence was to the portrait in her bed chamber . 
A face once taken was taken for generations . 
But here she was obliged to look and consider and study for a likeness . 
She contemplated it , however , in spite of this drawback , with much emotion , and , but for a yet stronger interest , would have left it unwillingly . 
Her agitation as they entered the great gallery was too much for any endeavour at discourse she could only look at her companion . 
Eleanor's countenance was dejected , yet sedate and its composure spoke her inured to all the gloomy objects to which they were advancing . 
No summons , however , arrived and at last , on seeing a carriage drive up to the abbey , she was emboldened to descend and meet him under the protection of visitors . 
Upon this trust she dared still to remain in his presence , after the company left them , and nothing occurred to disturb it . 
In the course of this morning's reflections , she came to a resolution of making her next attempt on the forbidden door alone . 
It would be much better in every respect that Eleanor should know nothing of the matter . 
To involve her in the danger of a second detection , to court her into an apartment which must wring her heart , could not be the office of a friend . 
It was done and Catherine found herself alone in the gallery before the clocks had ceased to strike . 
The lock yielded to her hand , and , luckily , with no sullen sound that could alarm a human being . 
On tiptoe she entered the room was before her but it was some minutes before she could advance another step . 
She beheld what fixed her to the spot and agitated every feature . 
Astonishment and doubt first seized them and a shortly succeeding ray of common sense added some bitter emotions of shame . 
There were two other doors in the chamber , leading probably into dressing closets but she had no inclination to open either . 
, much worse ! She listened the sound had ceased and resolving not to lose a moment , she passed through and closed the door . 
She bad no power to move . 
With a feeling of terror not very definable , she fixed her eyes on the staircase , and in a few moments it gave Henry to her view . 
Mr. Tilney ! she exclaimed in a voice of more than common astonishment . 
Good God ! she continued , not attending to his address . 
How came you here ? How came you up that staircase ? How came I up that staircase ! he replied , greatly surprised . 
He seemed to be looking in her countenance for that explanation which her lips did not afford . 
She moved on towards the gallery . 
I have been , said Catherine , looking down , to see your mother's room . 
My mother's room ! Is there anything extraordinary to be seen there ? No , nothing at all . 
I thought you did not mean to come back till tomorrow . 
I did not expect to be able to return sooner , when I went away but three hours ago I had the pleasure of finding nothing to detain me . 
I am afraid I alarmed you by running so fast up those stairs . 
Perhaps you did not know you were not aware of their leading from the offices in common use ? No , I was not . 
You have had a very fine day for your ride . 
And that prevented you , said Henry , earnestly regarding her . 
Have you looked into all the rooms in that passage ? No , I only wanted to see Is not it very late ? I must go and dress . 
It is only a quarter past four showing his watch and you are not now in Bath . 
No theatre , no rooms to prepare for . 
Half an hour at Northanger must be enough . 
They walked slowly up the gallery . 
Have you had any letter from Bath since I saw you ? No , and I am very much surprised . 
Isabella promised so faithfully to write directly . 
Promised so faithfully ! A faithful promise ! That puzzles me . 
I have heard of a faithful performance . 
But a faithful promise the fidelity of promising ! It is a power little worth knowing , however , since it can deceive and pain you . 
She sent you to look at it , I suppose ? No. It has been your own doing entirely ? Catherine said nothing . 
The world , I believe , never saw a better woman . 
But it is not often that virtue can boast an interest such as this . 
The domestic , unpretending merits of a person never known do not often create that kind of fervent , venerating tenderness which would prompt a visit like yours . 
Eleanor , I suppose , has talked of her a great deal ? Yes , a great deal . 
That is no , not much , but what she did say was very interesting . 
, and you none of you being at home and your father , I thought perhaps had not been very fond of her . 
or it may be of something still less pardonable . 
She raised her eyes towards him more fully than she had ever done before . 
My mother's illness , he continued , the seizure which ended in her death , was sudden . 
The malady itself , one from which she had often suffered , a bilious fever its cause therefore constitutional . 
Upon his opinion of her danger , two others were called in the next day , and remained in almost constant attendance for four and twenty hours . 
On the fifth day she died . 
Poor Eleanor was absent , and at such a distance as to return only to see her mother in her coffin . 
But your father , said Catherine , was he afflicted ? For a time , greatly so . 
You have erred in supposing him not attached to her . 
His value of her was sincere and , if not permanently , he was truly afflicted by her death . 
What have you been judging from ? Remember the country and the age in which we live . 
Remember that we are English , that we are Christians . 
Consult your own understanding , your own sense of the probable , your own observation of what is passing around you . 
CHAPTER The visions of romance were over . 
Henry's address , short as it had been , had more thoroughly opened her eyes to the extravagance of her late fancies than all their several disappointments had done . 
Most grievously was she humbled . 
Most bitterly did she cry . 
It was not only with herself that she was sunk but with Henry . 
Her folly , which now seemed even criminal , was all exposed to him , and he must despise her forever . 
He had she thought he had , once or twice before this fatal morning , shown something like affection for her . 
The formidable Henry soon followed her into the room , and the only difference in his behaviour to her was that he paid her rather more attention than usual . 
Catherine had never wanted comfort more , and he looked as if he was aware of it . 
The evening wore away with no abatement of this soothing politeness and her spirits were gradually raised to a modest tranquillity . 
She did not learn either to forget or defend the past but she learned to hope that it would never transpire farther , and that it might not cost her Henry's entire regard . 
She remembered with what feelings she had prepared for a knowledge of Northanger . 
Catherine dared not doubt beyond her own country , and even of that , if hard pressed , would have yielded the northern and western extremities . 
Murder was not tolerated , servants were not slaves , and neither poison nor sleeping potions to be procured , like rhubarb , from every druggist . 
Among the Alps and Pyrenees , perhaps , there were no mixed characters . 
There , such as were not as spotless as an angel might have the dispositions of a fiend . 
But in England it was not so among the English , she believed , in their hearts and habits , there was a general though unequal mixture of good and bad . 
The anxieties of common life began soon to succeed to the alarms of romance . 
Her desire of hearing from Isabella grew every day greater . 
Her only dependence for information of any kind was on Isabella . 
James had protested against writing to her till his return to Oxford and Mrs. Allen had given her no hopes of a letter till she had got back to Fullerton . 
She thanked him as heartily as if he had written it himself . 
'Tis only from James , however , as she looked at the direction . 
I left her and Bath yesterday , never to see either again . 
I shall not enter into particulars they would only pain you more . 
You will soon hear enough from another quarter to know where lies the blame and I hope will acquit your brother of everything but the folly of too easily thinking his affection returned . 
Thank God ! I am undeceived in time ! But it is a heavy blow ! After my father's consent had been so kindly given but no more of this . 
She has made me miserable forever ! Let me soon hear from you , dear Catherine you are my only friend your love I do build upon . 
I wish your visit at Northanger may be over before Captain Tilney makes his engagement known , or you will be uncomfortably circumstanced . 
Poor Thorpe is in town I dread the sight of him his honest heart would feel so much . 
I have written to him and my father . 
I am ashamed to think how long I bore with it but if ever man had reason to believe himself loved , I was that man . 
I cannot understand even now what she would be at , for there could be no need of my being played off to make her secure of Tilney . 
He was prevented , however , from even looking his surprise by his father's entrance . 
They went to breakfast directly but Catherine could hardly eat anything . 
Tears filled her eyes , and even ran down her cheeks as she sat . 
The letter was one moment in her hand , then in her lap , and then in her pocket and she looked as if she knew not what she did . 
The general , between his cocoa and his newspaper , had luckily no leisure for noticing her but to the other two her distress was equally visible . 
As soon as she dared leave the table she hurried away to her own room but the housemaids were busy in it , and she was obliged to come down again . 
She turned into the drawing room for privacy , but Henry and Eleanor had likewise retreated thither , and were at that moment deep in consultation about her . 
After half an hour's free indulgence of grief and reflection , Catherine felt equal to encountering her friends but whether she should make her distress known to them was another consideration . 
Perhaps , if particularly questioned , she might just give an idea just distantly hint at it but not more . 
To expose a friend , such a friend as Isabella had been to her and then their own brother so closely concerned in it ! She believed she must waive the subject altogether . 
Henry and Eleanor were by themselves in the breakfast room and each , as she entered it , looked at her anxiously . 
they are all very well . 
My letter was from my brother at Oxford . 
It contained something worse than anybody could suppose ! Poor James is so unhappy ! You will soon know why . 
To have so kind hearted , so affectionate a sister , replied Henry warmly , must be a comfort to him under any distress . 
Eleanor's work was suspended while she gazed with increasing astonishment but Henry began to suspect the truth , and something , in which Miss Thorpe's name was included , passed his lips . 
How quick you are ! cried Catherine you have guessed it , I declare ! And yet , when we talked about it in Bath , you little thought of its ending so . 
I hope he has not had any material share in bringing on Mr. Morland's disappointment . 
His marrying Miss Thorpe is not probable . 
I think you must be deceived so far . 
I am very sorry for Mr. Morland sorry that anyone you love should be unhappy but my surprise would be greater at Frederick's marrying her than at any other part of the story . 
It is very true , however you shall read James's letter yourself . 
Stay There is one part recollecting with a blush the last line . 
Will you take the trouble of reading to us the passages which concern my brother ? No , read it yourself , cried Catherine , whose second thoughts were clearer . 
James only means to give me good advice . 
Frederick will not be the first man who has chosen a wife with less sense than his family expected . 
I do not envy his situation , either as a lover or a son . 
Miss Tilney , at Catherine's invitation , now read the letter likewise , and , having expressed also her concern and surprise , began to inquire into Miss Thorpe's connections and fortune . 
Her mother is a very good sort of woman , was Catherine's answer . 
What was her father ? A lawyer , I believe . 
Are they a wealthy family ? No , not very . 
I do not believe Isabella has any fortune at all but that will not signify in your family . 
Your father is so very liberal ! He told me the other day that he only valued money as it allowed him to promote the happiness of his children . 
The brother and sister looked at each other . 
When I think of his past declarations , I give him up . 
Moreover , I have too good an opinion of Miss Thorpe's prudence to suppose that she would part with one gentleman before the other was secured . 
It is all over with Frederick indeed ! He is a deceased man defunct in understanding . 
Such a sister in law , Henry , I should delight in , said Eleanor with a smile . 
But perhaps , observed Catherine , though she has behaved so ill by our family , she may behave better by yours . 
Now she has really got the man she likes , she may be constant . 
Indeed I am afraid she will , replied Henry I am afraid she will be very constant , unless a baronet should come in her way that is Frederick's only chance . 
I will get the Bath paper , and look over the arrivals . 
You think it is all for ambition , then ? And , upon my word , there are some things that seem very like it . 
I cannot forget that , when she first knew what my father would do for them , she seemed quite disappointed that it was not more . 
I never was so deceived in anyone's character in my life before . 
Among all the great variety that you have known and studied . 
My own disappointment and loss in her is very great but , as for poor James , I suppose he will hardly ever recover it . 
Your brother is certainly very much to be pitied at present but we must not , in our concern for his sufferings , undervalue yours . 
You feel , I suppose , that in losing Isabella , you lose half yourself you feel a void in your heart which nothing else can occupy . 
Society is becoming irksome and as for the amusements in which you were wont to share at Bath , the very idea of them without her is abhorrent . 
You would not , for instance , now go to a ball for the world . 
You feel , as you always do , what is most to the credit of human nature . 
Such feelings ought to be investigated , that they may know themselves . 
She proposed it to him accordingly but he did not catch at the measure so eagerly as she had expected . 
No , said he , my father's hands need not be strengthened , and Frederick's confession of folly need not be forestalled . 
He must tell his own story . 
But he will tell only half of it . 
A quarter would be enough . 
A day or two passed away and brought no tidings of Captain Tilney . 
His brother and sister knew not what to think . 
Sometimes it appeared to them as if his silence would be the natural result of the suspected engagement , and at others that it was wholly incompatible with it . 
But then it was such a dead time of year , no wild fowl , no game , and the Lady Frasers were not in the country . 
Henry was greatly honoured and very happy , and Catherine was quite delighted with the scheme . 
Well , well , we will take our chance some one of those days . 
There is no need to fix . 
You are not to put yourself at all out of your way . 
Whatever you may happen to have in the house will be enough . 
I think I can answer for the young ladies making allowance for a bachelor's table . 
Let me see Monday will be a busy day with you , we will not come on Monday and Tuesday will be a busy one with me . 
I expect my surveyor from Brockham with his report in the morning and afterwards I cannot in decency fail attending the club . 
They are a set of very worthy men . 
They have half a buck from Northanger twice a year and I dine with them whenever I can . 
Tuesday , therefore , we may say is out of the question . 
But on Wednesday , I think , Henry , you may expect us and we shall be with you early , that we may have time to look about us . 
Witness myself , at this present hour . 
Go away ! said Catherine , with a very long face . 
Oh ! Not seriously ! Aye , and sadly too for I had much rather stay . 
But how can you think of such a thing , after what the general said ? When he so particularly desired you not to give yourself any trouble , because anything would do . 
I am sure it is quite unnecessary upon your sister's account and mine . 
I wish I could reason like you , for his sake and my own . 
As tomorrow is Sunday , Eleanor , I shall not return . 
But the inexplicability of the general's conduct dwelt much on her thoughts . 
This was the sad finale of every reflection and Captain Tilney's letter would certainly come in his absence and Wednesday she was very sure would be wet . 
The past , present , and future were all equally in gloom . 
The painful remembrance of the folly it had helped to nourish and perfect was the only emotion which could spring from a consideration of the building . 
If Wednesday should ever come ! It did come , and exactly when it might be reasonably looked for . 
It came it was fine and Catherine trod on air . 
We are not calling it a good house , said he . 
It may admit of improvement , however . 
Henry , remember that Robinson is spoken to about it . 
At four they were to dine , and at six to set off on their return . 
His son and daughter's observations were of a different kind . 
They had seldom seen him eat so heartily at any table but his own , and never before known him so little disconcerted by the melted butter's being oiled . 
I really am quite ashamed of my idleness but in this horrid place one can find time for nothing . 
I have had my pen in my hand to begin a letter to you almost every day since you left Bath , but have always been prevented by some silly trifler or other . 
Pray write to me soon , and direct to my own home . 
Thank God , we leave this vile place tomorrow . 
Since you went away , I have had no pleasure in it the dust is beyond anything and everybody one cares for is gone . 
I believe if I could see you I should not mind the rest , for you are dearer to me than anybody can conceive . 
I am quite uneasy about your dear brother , not having heard from him since he went to Oxford and am fearful of some misunderstanding . 
Your kind offices will set all right he is the only man I ever did or could love , and I trust you will convince him of it . 
The spring fashions are partly down and the hats the most frightful you can imagine . 
I hope you spend your time pleasantly , but am afraid you never think of me . 
I rejoice to say that the young man whom , of all others , I particularly abhor , has left Bath . 
Afterwards he got worse , and became quite my shadow . 
Many girls might have been taken in , for never were such attentions but I knew the fickle sex too well . 
He went away to his regiment two days ago , and I trust I shall never be plagued with him again . 
He is the greatest coxcomb I ever saw , and amazingly disagreeable . 
The last two days he was always by the side of Charlotte Davis I pitied his taste , but took no notice of him . 
The last time we met was in Bath Street , and I turned directly into a shop that he might not speak to me I would not even look at him . 
He went into the pump room afterwards but I would not have followed him for all the world . 
I would write to him myself , but have mislaid his direction and , as I hinted above , am afraid he took something in my conduct amiss . 
We happened to sit by the Mitchells , and they pretended to be quite surprised to see me out . 
You know I have a pretty good spirit of my own . 
I wear nothing but purple now I know I look hideous in it , but no matter it is your dear brother's favourite colour . 
Lose no time , my dearest , sweetest Catherine , in writing to him and to me , Who ever am , etc . 
Such a strain of shallow artifice could not impose even upon Catherine . 
Its inconsistencies , contradictions , and falsehood struck her from the very first . 
She was ashamed of Isabella , and ashamed of having ever loved her . 
Her professions of attachment were now as disgusting as her excuses were empty , and her demands impudent . 
Write to James on her behalf ! No , James should never hear Isabella's name mentioned by her again . 
I see what she has been about . 
She is a vain coquette , and her tricks have not answered . 
I do not believe she had ever any regard either for James or for me , and I wish I had never known her . 
It will soon be as if you never had , said Henry . 
There is but one thing that I cannot understand . 
I see that she has had designs on Captain Tilney , which have not succeeded but I do not understand what Captain Tilney has been about all this time . 
He has his vanities as well as Miss Thorpe , and the chief difference is , that , having a stronger head , they have not yet injured himself . 
If the effect of his behaviour does not justify him with you , we had better not seek after the cause . 
Then you do not suppose he ever really cared about her ? I am persuaded that he never did . 
And only made believe to do so for mischief's sake ? Henry bowed his assent . 
Well , then , I must say that I do not like him at all . 
Though it has turned out so well for us , I do not like him at all . 
As it happens , there is no great harm done , because I do not think Isabella has any heart to lose . 
It is very right that you should stand by your brother . 
And if you would stand by yours , you would not be much distressed by the disappointment of Miss Thorpe . 
But your mind is warped by an innate principle of general integrity , and therefore not accessible to the cool reasonings of family partiality , or a desire of revenge . 
Catherine was complimented out of further bitterness . 
Frederick could not be unpardonably guilty , while Henry made himself so agreeable . 
She resolved on not answering Isabella's letter , and tried to think no more of it . 
His departure gave Catherine the first experimental conviction that a loss may be sometimes a gain . 
Eleanor looked and declared herself much concerned . 
Catherine explained Oh ! As to that , Papa and Mamma were in no hurry at all . 
As long as she was happy , they would always be satisfied . 
Then why , might she ask , in such a hurry herself to leave them ? Oh ! Because she had been there so long . 
Nay , if you can use such a word , I can urge you no farther . 
If you think it long Oh ! No , I do not indeed . 
For my own pleasure , I could stay with you as long again . 
And it was directly settled that , till she had , her leaving them was not even to be thought of . 
In having this cause of uneasiness so pleasantly removed , the force of the other was likewise weakened . 
At that moment Catherine thought she heard her step in the gallery , and listened for its continuance but all was silent . 
Eleanor , and only Eleanor , stood there . 
Catherine's spirits , however , were tranquillized but for an instant , for Eleanor's cheeks were pale , and her manner greatly agitated . 
Though evidently intending to come in , it seemed an effort to enter the room , and a still greater to speak when there . 
My dear Catherine , you must not you must not indeed were Eleanor's first connected words . 
It is my father himself . 
Her voice faltered , and her eyes were turned to the ground as she mentioned his name . 
His unlooked for return was enough in itself to make Catherine's heart sink , and for a few moments she hardly supposed there were anything worse to be told . 
She said nothing and Eleanor , endeavouring to collect herself and speak with firmness , but with eyes still cast down , soon went on . 
You are too good , I am sure , to think the worse of me for the part I am obliged to perform . 
I am indeed a most unwilling messenger . 
My dear Catherine , we are to part . 
My father has recollected an engagement that takes our whole family away on Monday . 
We are going to Lord Longtown's , near Hereford , for a fortnight . 
Explanation and apology are equally impossible . 
My dear Eleanor , cried Catherine , suppressing her feelings as well as she could , do not be so distressed . 
A second engagement must give way to a first . 
I am very , very sorry we are to part so soon , and so suddenly too but I am not offended , indeed I am not . 
I can finish my visit here , you know , at any time or I hope you will come to me . 
Can you , when you return from this lord's , come to Fullerton ? It will not be in my power , Catherine . 
Come when you can , then . 
Eleanor made no answer and Catherine's thoughts recurring to something more directly interesting , she added , thinkng aloud , Monday so soon as Monday and you all go . 
Well , I am certain of I shall be able to take leave , however . 
I need not go till just before you do , you know . 
Do not be distressed , Eleanor , I can go on Monday very well . 
My father and mother's having no notice of it is of very little consequence . 
Ah , Catherine ! Were it settled so , it would be somewhat less intolerable , though in such common attentions you would have received but half what you ought . 
Catherine sat down , breathless and speechless . 
Have I offended the general ? said Catherine in a faltering voice . 
Alas ! For my feelings as a daughter , all that I know , all that I answer for , is that you can have given him no just cause of offence . 
He certainly is greatly , very greatly discomposed I have seldom seen him more so . 
I am sure , said she , I am very sorry if I have offended him . 
It was the last thing I would willingly have done . 
But do not be unhappy , Eleanor . 
An engagement , you know , must be kept . 
I am only sorry it was not recollected sooner , that I might have written home . 
But it is of very little consequence . 
Do not think about that . 
And if we are to part , a few hours sooner or later , you know , makes no difference . 
I can be ready by seven . 
Let me be called in time . 
Catherine's swelling heart needed relief . 
In Eleanor's presence friendship and pride had equally restrained her tears , but no sooner was she gone than they burst forth in torrents . 
Henry at a distance not able even to bid him farewell . 
From what it could arise , and where it would end , were considerations of equal perplexity and alarm . 
What could all this mean but an intentional affront ? By some means or other she must have had the misfortune to offend him . 
Sleep , or repose that deserved the name of sleep , was out of the question . 
That room , in which her disturbed imagination had tormented her on her first arrival , was again the scene of agitated spirits and unquiet slumbers . 
Soon after six Eleanor entered her room , eager to show attention or give assistance where it was possible but very little remained to be done . 
Catherine had not loitered she was almost dressed , and her packing almost finished . 
The possibility of some conciliatory message from the general occurred to her as his daughter appeared . 
But the knowledge would have been useless here it was not called for neither clemency nor dignity was put to the trial Eleanor brought no message . 
The contrast between this and her last breakfast in that room gave her fresh misery , and strengthened her distaste for everything before her . 
Eleanor seemed now impelled into resolution and speech . 
You must write to me , Catherine , she cried you must let me hear from you as soon as possible . 
Till I know you to be safe at home , I shall not have an hour's comfort . 
For one letter , at all risks , all hazards , I must entreat . 
Direct to me at Lord Longtown's , and , I must ask it , under cover to Alice . 
No , Eleanor , if you are not allowed to receive a letter from me , I am sure I had better not write . 
There can be no doubt of my getting home safe . 
Eleanor only replied , I cannot wonder at your feelings . 
I will not importune you . 
I will trust to your own kindness of heart when I am at a distance from you . 
There was yet another point which Miss Tilney was anxious to settle , though somewhat embarrassed in speaking of . 
Short , however , was that time . 
CHAPTER Catherine was too wretched to be fearful . 
The journey in itself had no terrors for her and she began it without either dreading its length or feeling its solitariness . 
The day which she had spent at that place had been one of the happiest of her life . 
Henry and her own heart only were privy to the shocking suspicions which she had so idly entertained and equally safe did she believe her secret with each . 
Designedly , at least , Henry could not have betrayed her . 
If aware of her having viewed him as a murderer , she could not wonder at his even turning her from his house . 
But a justification so full of torture to herself , she trusted , would not be in his power . 
Anxious as were all her conjectures on this point , it was not , however , the one on which she dwelt most . 
There was a thought yet nearer , a more prevailing , more impetuous concern . 
With these feelings , she rather dreaded than sought for the first view of that well known spire which would announce her within twenty miles of home . 
She met with nothing , however , to distress or frighten her . 
But my affair is widely different I bring back my heroine to her home in solitude and disgrace and no sweet elation of spirits can lead me into minuteness . 
A heroine in a hack post chaise is such a blow upon sentiment , as no attempt at grandeur or pathos can withstand . 
Swiftly therefore shall her post boy drive through the village , amid the gaze of Sunday groups , and speedy shall be her descent from it . 
Happy the glance that first distinguished Catherine ! Happy the voice that proclaimed the discovery ! But whether such happiness were the lawful property of George or Harriet could never be exactly understood . 
My dear , you give yourself a great deal of needless trouble , said her mother at last depend upon it , it is something not at all worth understanding . 
The strength of these feelings , however , was far from assisting her pen and never had it been harder for her to write than in addressing Eleanor Tilney . 
The money therefore which Eleanor had advanced was enclosed with little more than grateful thanks , and the thousand good wishes of a most affectionate heart . 
This has been a strange acquaintance , observed Mrs. Morland , as the letter was finished soon made and soon ended . 
I am sorry it happens so , for Mrs. Allen thought them very pretty kind of young people and you were sadly out of luck too in your Isabella . 
Ah ! Poor James ! Well , we must live and learn and the next new friends you make I hope will be better worth keeping . 
Catherine coloured as she warmly answered , No friend can be better worth keeping than Eleanor . 
If so , my dear , I dare say you will meet again some time or other do not be uneasy . 
The hope of meeting again in the course of a few years could only put into Catherine's head what might happen within that time to make a meeting dreadful to her . 
The two houses were only a quarter of a mile apart and , as they walked , Mrs. Morland quickly dispatched all that she felt on the score of James's disappointment . 
Catherine took us quite by surprise yesterday evening , said she . 
Mr. Allen expressed himself on the occasion with the reasonable resentment of a sensible friend and Mrs. Allen thought his expressions quite good enough to be immediately made use of again by herself . 
And , I really have not patience with the general , was uttered twice after Mr. Allen left the room , without any relaxation of anger , or any material digression of thought . 
I must show it you some day or other . 
Bath is a nice place , Catherine , after all . 
I assure you I did not above half like coming away . 
Mrs. Thorpe's being there was such a comfort to us , was not it ? You know , you and I were quite forlorn at first . 
Yes , but that did not last long , said Catherine , her eyes brightening at the recollection of what had first given spirit to her existence there . 
Very true we soon met with Mrs. Thorpe , and then we wanted for nothing . 
Do you remember that evening ? Do I ! Oh ! Perfectly . 
It was very agreeable , was not it ? Mr. Tilney drank tea with us , and I always thought him a great addition , he is so very agreeable . 
I have a notion you danced with him , but am not quite sure . 
I remember I had my favourite gown on . 
His lodgings were taken the very day after he left them , Catherine . 
But no wonder Milsom Street , you know . 
Her loss of spirits was a yet greater alteration . 
In her rambling and her idleness she might only be a caricature of herself but in her silence and sadness she was the very reverse of all that she had been before . 
I do not know when poor Richard's cravats would be done , if he had no friend but you . 
Your head runs too much upon Bath but there is a time for everything a time for balls and plays , and a time for work . 
You have had a long run of amusement , and now you must try to be useful . 
Catherine took up her work directly , saying , in a dejected voice , that her head did not run upon Bath much . 
Then you are fretting about General Tilney , and that is very simple of you for ten to one whether you ever see him again . 
You should never fret about trifles . 
After a short silence I hope , my Catherine , you are not getting out of humour with home because it is not so grand as Northanger . 
That would be turning your visit into an evil indeed . 
Wherever you are you should always be contented , but especially at home , because there you must spend the most of your time . 
I did not quite like , at breakfast , to hear you talk so much about the French bread at Northanger . 
I am sure I do not care about the bread . 
it is all the same to me what I eat . 
I will look it out for you some day or other , because I am sure it will do you good . 
He did not address himself to an uncandid judge or a resentful heart . 
Returning in silence to his seat , therefore , he remained for some minutes most civilly answering all Mrs. Morland's common remarks about the weather and roads . 
They began their walk , and Mrs. Morland was not entirely mistaken in his object in wishing it . 
Such was the permission upon which he had now offered her his hand . 
She was guilty only of being less rich than he had supposed her to be . 
Under a mistaken persuasion of her possessions and claims , he had courted her acquaintance in Bath , solicited her company at Northanger , and designed her for his daughter in law . 
John Thorpe had first misled him . 
Her intimacy there had made him seriously determine on her being handsomely legacied hereafter and to speak of her therefore as the almost acknowledged future heiress of Fullerton naturally followed . 
Upon such intelligence the general had proceeded for never had it occurred to him to doubt its authority . 
His resolution was soon formed . 
Catherine herself could not be more ignorant at the time of all this , than his own children . 
The terrified general pronounced the name of Allen with an inquiring look and here too Thorpe had learnt his error . 
The Allens , he believed , had lived near them too long , and he knew the young man on whom the Fullerton estate must devolve . 
The general needed no more . 
Enraged with almost everybody in the world but himself , he set out the next day for the abbey , where his performances have been seen . 
I have united for their case what they must divide for mine . 
Henry , in having such things to relate of his father , was almost as pitiable as in their first avowal to himself . 
He blushed for the narrow minded counsel which he was obliged to expose . 
The conversation between them at Northanger had been of the most unfriendly kind . 
Henry's indignation on hearing how Catherine had been treated , on comprehending his father's views , and being ordered to acquiesce in them , had been open and bold . 
But , in such a cause , his anger , though it must shock , could not intimidate Henry , who was sustained in his purpose by a conviction of its justice . 
The general was furious in his anger , and they parted in dreadful disagreement . 
His pleasing manners and good sense were self evident recommendations and having never heard evil of him , it was not their way to suppose any evil could be told . 
Goodwill supplying the place of experience , his character needed no attestation . 
Catherine would make a sad , heedless young housekeeper to be sure , was her mother's foreboding remark but quick was the consolation of there being nothing like practice . 
There was but one obstacle , in short , to be mentioned but till that one was removed , it must be impossible for them to sanction the engagement . 
Their tempers were mild , but their principles were steady , and while his parent so expressly forbade the connection , they could not allow themselves to encourage it . 
His consent was all that they wished for . 
They were no more inclined than entitled to demand his money . 
The young people could not be surprised at a decision like this . 
Whether the torments of absence were softened by a clandestine correspondence , let us not inquire . 
My own joy on the occasion is very sincere . 
I know no one more entitled , by unpretending merit , or better prepared by habitual suffering , to receive and enjoy felicity . 
Her partiality for this gentleman was not of recent origin and he had been long withheld only by inferiority of situation from addressing her . 
Any further definition of his merits must be unnecessary the most charming young man in the world is instantly before the imagination of us all . 
Vide a letter from Mr. Richardson , No. , Vol . 
A NOTE ON THE TEXT Northanger Abbey was written in under a different title . 
The manuscript was revised around and sold to a London publisher , Crosbie Co . 
, who sold it back in . 
The Signet Classic text is based on the first edition , published by John Murray , London , in the year following Miss Austen's death . 
Spelling and punctuation have been largely brought into conformity with modern British usage . 
