New Arabian Nights by Robert Louis Stevenson Scanned and proofed by David Price ccx coventry . 
He was a remarkable man even by what was known of him and that was but a small part of what he actually did . 
The Master of the Horse was a young officer of a brave and even temerarious disposition . 
He greeted the news with delight , and hastened to make ready . 
One evening in March they were driven by a sharp fall of sleet into an Oyster Bar in the immediate neighbourhood of Leicester Square . 
These lent him a shaggy and weather beaten air , which , for one of his urbanity , formed the most impenetrable disguise . 
Thus equipped , the commander and his satellite sipped their brandy and soda in security . 
Sometimes his offer was laughingly accepted sometimes it was firmly , or even harshly , rejected . 
In these latter cases the new comer always ate the tart himself , with some more or less humorous commentary . 
At last he accosted Prince Florizel . 
I am in the habit , replied the Prince , of looking not so much to the nature of a gift as to the spirit in which it is offered . 
The spirit , sir , returned the young man , with another bow , is one of mockery . 
And whom do you propose to mock ? I am not here to expound my philosophy , replied the other , but to distribute these cream tarts . 
If I mention that I heartily include myself in the ridicule of the transaction , I hope you will consider honour satisfied and condescend . 
If not , you will constrain me to eat my twenty eighth , and I own to being weary of the exercise . 
You touch me , said the Prince , and I have all the will in the world to rescue you from this dilemma , but upon one condition . 
If my friend and I eat your cakes for which we have neither of us any natural inclination we shall expect you to join us at supper by way of recompense . 
The young man seemed to reflect . 
I have still several dozen upon hand , he said at last and that will make it necessary for me to visit several more bars before my great affair is concluded . 
This will take some time and if you are hungry The Prince interrupted him with a polite gesture . 
My friend and I will accompany you , he said for we have already a deep interest in your very agreeable mode of passing an evening . 
And now that the preliminaries of peace are settled , allow me to sign the treaty for both . 
And the Prince swallowed the tart with the best grace imaginable . 
It is delicious , said he . 
I perceive you are a connoisseur , replied the young man . 
On leaving the third saloon the young man counted his store . 
There were but nine remaining , three in one tray and six in the other . 
Gentlemen , said he , addressing himself to his two new followers , I am unwilling to delay your supper . 
I am positively sure you must be hungry . 
I feel that I owe you a special consideration . 
Gentlemen , you shall wait no longer . 
Although my constitution is shattered by previous excesses , at the risk of my life I liquidate the suspensory condition . 
With these words he crushed the nine remaining tarts into his mouth , and swallowed them at a single movement each . 
Then , turning to the commissionaires , he gave them a couple of sovereigns . 
I have to thank you , said be , for your extraordinary patience . 
And he dismissed them with a bow apiece . 
The dessert had been cleared away , and all three had lighted their cigars , when the Prince addressed him in these words You will , I am sure , pardon my curiosity . 
What I have seen of you has greatly pleased but even more puzzled me . 
And though I should be loth to seem indiscreet , I must tell you that my friend and I are persons very well worthy to be entrusted with a secret . 
We have many of our own , which we are continually revealing to improper ears . 
And if , as I suppose , your story is a silly one , you need have no delicacy with us , who are two of the silliest men in England . 
My name is Godall , Theophilus Godall my friend is Major Alfred Hammersmith or at least , such is the name by which he chooses to be known . 
We pass our lives entirely in the search for extravagant adventures and there is no extravagance with which we are not capable of sympathy . 
At least , I am sure he is no soldier . 
The Colonel smiled at this compliment to the perfection of his art and the young man went on in a more animated manner . 
There is every reason why I should not tell you my story . 
Perhaps that is just the reason why I am going to do so . 
At least , you seem so well prepared to hear a tale of silliness that I cannot find it in my heart to disappoint you . 
My name , in spite of your example , I shall keep to myself . 
My age is not essential to the narrative . 
I am descended from my ancestors by ordinary generation , and from them I inherited the very eligible human tenement which I still occupy and a fortune of three hundred pounds a year . 
I suppose they also handed on to me a hare brain humour , which it has been my chief delight to indulge . 
I received a good education . 
I can play the violin nearly well enough to earn money in the orchestra of a penny gaff , but not quite . 
The same remark applies to the flute and the French horn . 
I learned enough of whist to lose about a hundred a year at that scientific game . 
My acquaintance with French was sufficient to enable me to squander money in Paris with almost the same facility as in London . 
In short , I am a person full of manly accomplishments . 
I have had every sort of adventure , including a duel about nothing . 
This I divided into two equal parts forty I reserved for a particular purpose the remaining forty I was to dissipate before the night . 
From the whole tone of the young man's statement it was plain that he harboured very bitter and contemptuous thoughts about himself . 
His auditors were led to imagine that his love affair was nearer his heart than he admitted , and that he had a design on his own life . 
The farce of the cream tarts began to have very much the air of a tragedy in disguise . 
Let your heroic treatment of the last cream tarts be my example . 
So saying , the Prince drew out his purse and took from it a small bundle of bank notes . 
You see , I was a week or so behind you , but I mean to catch you up and come neck and neck into the winning post , he continued . 
This , laying one of the notes upon the table , will suffice for the bill . 
As for the rest He tossed them into the fire , and they went up the chimney in a single blaze . 
The young man tried to catch his arm , but as the table was between them his interference came too late . 
Unhappy man , he cried , you should not have burned them all ! You should have kept forty pounds . 
Forty pounds ! repeated the Prince . 
Why , in heaven's name , forty pounds ? Why not eighty ? cried the Colonel for to my certain knowledge there must have been a hundred in the bundle . 
It was only forty pounds he needed , said the young man gloomily . 
But without them there is no admission . 
Accursed life , where a man cannot even die without money ! The Prince and the Colonel exchanged glances . 
Explain yourself , said the latter . 
I have still a pocket book tolerably well lined , and I need not say how readily I should share my wealth with Godall . 
But I must know to what end you must certainly tell us what you mean . 
The young man seemed to awaken he looked uneasily from one to the other , and his face flushed deeply . 
You are not fooling me ? he asked . 
You are indeed ruined men like me ? Indeed , I am for my part , replied the Colonel . 
And for mine , said the Prince , I have given you proof . 
Who but a ruined man would throw his notes into the fire ? The action speaks for itself . 
A ruined man yes , returned the other suspiciously , or else a millionaire . 
Enough , sir , said the Prince I have said so , and I am not accustomed to have my word remain in doubt . 
Ruined ? said the young man . 
Here is your health ! he cried , emptying his glass , and good night to you , my merry ruined men . 
Colonel Geraldine caught him by the arm as he was about to rise . 
You lack confidence in us , he said , and you are wrong . 
To all your questions I make answer in the affirmative . 
But I am not so timid , and can speak the Queen's English plainly . 
We too , like yourself , have had enough of life , and are determined to die . 
Sooner or later , alone or together , we meant to seek out death and beard him where he lies ready . 
Since we have met you , and your case is more pressing , let it be to night and at once and , if you will , all three together . 
The Prince himself was disturbed , and looked over at his confidant with a shade of doubt . 
As for the young man , the flush came back darkly into his cheek , and his eyes threw out a spark of light . 
You are the men for me ! he cried , with an almost terrible gaiety . 
Shake hands upon the bargain ! . 
I know Death's private door . 
I am one of his familiars , and can show you into eternity without ceremony and yet without scandal . 
They called upon him eagerly to explain his meaning . 
Can you muster eighty pounds between you ? he demanded . 
Geraldine ostentatiously consulted his pocket book , and replied in the affirmative . 
Fortunate beings ! cried the young man . 
Forty pounds is the entry money of the Suicide Club . 
We have affairs in different places and hence railways were invented . 
Railways separated us infallibly from our friends and so telegraphs were made that we might communicate speedier at great distances . 
Even in hotels we have lifts to spare us a climb of some hundred steps . 
Now , we know that life is only a stage to play the fool upon as long as the part amuses us . 
This , my two fellow rebels , is supplied by the Suicide Club . 
Do not suppose that you and I are alone , or even exceptional in the highly reasonable desire that we profess . 
Some have families who would be shocked , or even blamed , if the matter became public others have a weakness at heart and recoil from the circumstances of death . 
That is , to some extent , my own experience . 
For such as I , and for all who desire to be out of the coil without posthumous scandal , the Suicide Club has been inaugurated . 
To this extent , however , I am at your service . 
eleven by half past , at latest , we must leave this place so that you have half an hour before you to consider my proposal . 
It is more serious than a cream tart , he added , with a smile and I suspect more palatable . 
If you will permit , I will retire . 
You will be very obliging , said the Colonel . 
I will see the end of this . 
Your Highness , said the Colonel , turning pale let me ask you to consider the importance of your life , not only to your friends , but to the public interest . 
Under no circumstances , recollect , nor without my special authority , are you to betray the incognito under which I choose to go abroad . 
These were my commands , which I now reiterate . 
And now , he added , let me ask you to call for the bill . 
Colonel Geraldine bowed in submission but he had a very white face as he summoned the young man of the cream tarts , and issued his directions to the waiter . 
The Prince preserved his undisturbed demeanour , and described a Palais Royal farce to the young suicide with great humour and gusto . 
He avoided the Colonel's appealing looks without ostentation , and selected another cheroot with more than usual care . 
Indeed , he was now the only man of the party who kept any command over his nerves . 
The bill was discharged , the Prince giving the whole change of the note to the astonished waiter and the three drove off in a four wheeler . 
They were not long upon the way before the cab stopped at the entrance to a rather dark court . 
After Geraldine had paid the fare , the young man turned , and addressed Prince Florizel as follows It is still time , Mr. Godall , to make good your escape into thraldom . 
And for you too , Major Hammersmith . 
Reflect well before you take another step and if your hearts say no here are the cross roads . 
Lead on , sir , said the Prince . 
I am not the man to go back from a thing once said . 
Your coolness does me good , replied their guide . 
I have never seen any one so unmoved at this conjuncture and yet you are not the first whom I have escorted to this door . 
More than one of my friends has preceded me , where I knew I must shortly follow . 
But this is of no interest to you . 
Wait me here for only a few moments I shall return as soon as I have arranged the preliminaries of your introduction . 
And with that the young man , waving his hand to his companions , turned into the court , entered a doorway and disappeared . 
Of all our follies , said Colonel Geraldine in a low voice , this is the wildest and most dangerous . 
I perfectly believe so , returned the Prince . 
We have still , pursued the Colonel , a moment to ourselves . 
Let me beseech your Highness to profit by the opportunity and retire . 
Am I to understand that Colonel Geraldine is afraid ? asked his Highness , taking his cheroot from his lips , and looking keenly into the other's face . 
My fear is certainly not personal , replied the other proudly of that your Highness may rest well assured . 
I had supposed as much , returned the Prince , with undisturbed good humour but I was unwilling to remind you of the difference in our stations . 
No more no more , he added , seeing Geraldine about to apologise , you stand excused . 
And he smoked placidly , leaning against a railing , until the young man returned . 
Well , he asked , has our reception been arranged ? Follow me , was the reply . 
The President will see you in the cabinet . 
And let me warn you to be frank in your answers . 
I have stood your guarantee but the club requires a searching inquiry before admission for the indiscretion of a single member would lead to the dispersion of the whole society for ever . 
The Prince and Geraldine put their heads together for a moment . 
There were no formidable obstacles to pass . 
The outer door stood open the door of the cabinet was ajar and there , in a small but very high apartment , the young man left them once more . 
He will be here immediately , he said , with a nod , as he disappeared . 
A single tall window looked out upon the river and the embankment and by the disposition of the lights they judged themselves not far from Charing Cross station . 
What sort of a den is this ? said Geraldine . 
That is what I have come to see , replied the Prince . 
If they keep live devils on the premises , the thing may grow amusing . 
His mouth , which embraced a large cigar , he kept continually screwing round and round and from side to side , as he looked sagaciously and coldly at the strangers . 
He was dressed in light tweeds , with his neck very open in a striped shirt collar and carried a minute book under one arm . 
Good evening , said he , after he had closed the door behind him . 
I am told you wish to speak with me . 
We have a desire , sir , to join the Suicide Club , replied the Colonel . 
The President rolled his cigar about in his mouth . 
What is that ? he said abruptly . 
Pardon me , returned the Colonel , but I believe you are the person best qualified to give us information on that point . 
I ? cried the President . 
A Suicide Club ? Come , come ! this is a frolic for All Fools' Day . 
I can make allowances for gentlemen who get merry in their liquor but let there be an end to this . 
Call your Club what you will , said the Colonel , you have some company behind these doors , and we insist on joining it . 
Sir , returned the President curtly , you have made a mistake . 
This is a private house , and you must leave it instantly . 
He has doubtless informed you of my intention in thus intruding on your party . 
Let me remind you that a person in my circumstances has exceedingly little to bind him , and is not at all likely to tolerate much rudeness . 
That is the way to speak , said he . 
You are a man who is a man . 
You know the way to my heart , and can do what you like with me . 
With these words he opened the door of a small closet , into which he shut the Colonel . 
He has had enough to cure the most tenacious man of life . 
He was cashiered the other day for cheating at cards . 
A good reason , I daresay , replied the President at least , we have another in the same case , and I feel sure of him . 
Have you also been in the Service , may I ask ? I have , was the reply but I was too lazy , I left it early . 
What is your reason for being tired of life ? pursued the President . 
The same , as near as I can make out , answered the Prince unadulterated laziness . 
D n it , said he , you must have something better than that . 
I have no more money , added Florizel . 
That is also a vexation , without doubt . 
It brings my sense of idleness to an acute point . 
If I had not a deal of experience , said the President at last , I should turn you off . 
But I know the world and this much any way , that the most frivolous excuses for a suicide are often the toughest to stand by . 
And when I downright like a man , as I do you , sir , I would rather strain the regulation than deny him . 
The result was satisfactory and the President , after having booked a few details of each case , produced a form of oath to be accepted . 
Nothing could be conceived more passive than the obedience promised , or more stringent than the terms by which the juror bound himself . 
The man who forfeited a pledge so awful could scarcely have a rag of honour or any of the consolations of religion left to him . 
Florizel signed the document , but not without a shudder the Colonel followed his example with an air of great depression . 
Then the President received the entry money and without more ado , introduced the two friends into the smoking room of the Suicide Club . 
A large and cheerful fire and a number of gas jets illuminated the company . 
The Prince and his follower made the number up to eighteen . 
Most of the party were smoking , and drinking champagne a feverish hilarity reigned , with sudden and rather ghastly pauses . 
Is this a full meeting ? asked the Prince . 
Middling , said the President . 
By the way , he added , if you have any money , it is usual to offer some champagne . 
It keeps up a good spirit , and is one of my own little perquisites . 
Hammersmith , said Florizel , I may leave the champagne to you . 
And with that he turned away and began to go round among the guests . 
As he went from one to another he kept both his eyes and ears open , and soon began to gain a general idea of the people among whom he found himself . 
Few were much above thirty , and not a few were still in their teens . 
As each new bottle of champagne was opened , there was a manifest improvement in gaiety . 
Except the Prince and the President , he was the only person in the room who preserved the composure of ordinary life . 
There was little decency among the members of the club . 
Some boasted of the disgraceful actions , the consequences of which had reduced them to seek refuge in death and the others listened without disapproval . 
There was a tacit understanding against moral judgments and whoever passed the club doors enjoyed already some of the immunities of the tomb . 
They drank to each other's memories , and to those of notable suicides in the past . 
To the eternal memory of Baron Trenck , the type of suicides ! cried one . 
He went out of a small cell into a smaller , that he might come forth again to freedom . 
For my part , said a second , I wish no more than a bandage for my eyes and cotton for my ears . 
Only they have no cotton thick enough in this world . 
I could not bear , said this remarkable suicide , to be descended from an ape . 
Altogether , the Prince was disappointed by the bearing and conversation of the members . 
It does not seem to me , he thought , a matter for so much disturbance . 
If a man has made up his mind to kill himself , let him do it , in God's name , like a gentleman . 
This flutter and big talk is out of place . 
The functionary explained the needlessness of all such formalities within the club , but nevertheless presented Mr. Hammersmith to Mr. Malthus . 
Mr. Malthus looked at the Colonel curiously , and then requested him to take a seat upon his right . 
You are a new comer , he said , and wish information ? You have come to the proper source . 
It is two years since I first visited this charming club . 
If Mr. Malthus had frequented the place for two years there could be little danger for the Prince in a single evening . 
But Geraldine was none the less astonished , and began to suspect a mystification . 
What ! cried he , two years ! I thought but indeed I see I have been made the subject of a pleasantry . 
By no means , replied Mr. Malthus mildly . 
I am not , properly speaking , a suicide at all but , as it were , an honorary member . 
I rarely visit the club twice in two months . 
My infirmity and the kindness of the President have procured me these little immunities , for which besides I pay at an advanced rate . 
Even as it is my luck has been extraordinary . 
I am afraid , said the Colonel , that I must ask you to be more explicit . 
You must remember that I am still most imperfectly acquainted with the rules of the club . 
An ordinary member who comes here in search of death like yourself , replied the paralytic , returns every evening until fortune favours him . 
And then the President's company is a delicacy in itself . 
Indeed ! cried Geraldine , he had not greatly prepossessed me . 
I have hem graciously spared , but I must go at last . 
He shuffles and deals for the club , and makes the necessary arrangements . 
That man , my dear Mr. Hammersmith , is the very soul of ingenuity . 
I believe him myself to be inspired . 
You say truly that you are in the dark , replied Mr. Malthus with more animation . 
Why , my dear sir , this club is the temple of intoxication . 
If my enfeebled health could support the excitement more often , you may depend upon it I should be more often here . 
Now , I deny that love is a strong passion . 
Fear is the strong passion it is with fear that you must trifle , if you wish to taste the intensest joys of living . 
Good God ! said the Colonel , do they then kill each other ? The trouble of suicide is removed in that way , returned Malthus with a nod . 
It was fixed upon him from across the room with a frowning and angry stare . 
And in a moment Geraldine recovered his composure . 
You now , after your first moment of surprise , said he , are in a position to appreciate the delights of our society . 
You can see how it combines the excitement of a gaming table , a duel , and a Roman amphitheatre . 
You will understand how vapid are all amusements to a man who has acquired a taste for this one . 
The game we play , he continued , is one of extreme simplicity . 
A full pack but I perceive you are about to see the thing in progress . 
Will you lend me the help of your arm ? I am unfortunately paralysed . 
It was similar in every respect to the one from which it was entered , but somewhat differently furnished . 
The centre was occupied by a long green table , at which the President sat shuffling a pack of cards with great particularity . 
It is a pack of fifty two , whispered Mr. Malthus . 
Watch for the ace of spades , which is the sign of death , and the ace of clubs , which designates the official of the night . 
Happy , happy young men ! he added . 
You have good eyes , and can follow the game . 
Alas ! I cannot tell an ace from a deuce across the table . 
And he proceeded to equip himself with a second pair of spectacles . 
I must at least watch the faces , he explained . 
The Colonel rapidly informed his friend of all that he had learned from the honorary member , and of the horrible alternative that lay before them . 
The Prince was conscious of a deadly chill and a contraction about his heart he swallowed with difficulty , and looked from side to side like a man in a maze . 
One bold stroke , whispered the Colonel , and we may still escape . 
But the suggestion recalled the Prince's spirits . 
Let me see that you can play like a gentleman for any stake , however serious . 
And he looked about him , once more to all appearance at his ease , although his heart beat thickly , and he was conscious of an unpleasant heat in his bosom . 
The members were all very quiet and intent every one was pale , but none so pale as Mr. Malthus . 
It was plain that the honorary member enjoyed his membership on very startling terms . 
Attention , gentlemen ! said the President . 
And he began slowly dealing the cards about the table in the reverse direction , pausing until each man had shown his card . 
Nearly every one hesitated and sometimes you would see a player's fingers stumble more than once before he could turn over the momentous slip of pasteboard . 
The deal was coming round again , and still Death's card had not come out . 
The players held their respiration , and only breathed by gasps . 
It was the ace of spades . 
The honorary member had trifled once too often with his terrors . 
Conversation broke out again almost at once . 
The players relaxed their rigid attitudes , and began to rise from the table and stroll back by twos and threes into the smoking room . 
The President stretched his arms and yawned , like a man who has finished his day's work . 
But Mr. Malthus sat in his place , with his head in his hands , and his hands upon the table , drunk and motionless a thing stricken down . 
The Prince and Geraldine made their escape at once . 
In the cold night air their horror of what they had witnessed was redoubled . 
But I dare , and may with propriety , forfeit mine . 
I receive your Highness's commands , replied the Colonel . 
Shall we go from this accursed spot ? Yes , said the Prince . 
Call a cab in Heaven's name , and let me try to forget in slumber the memory of this night's disgrace . 
But it was notable that he carefully read the name of the court before he left it . 
The next morning , as soon as the Prince was stirring , Colonel Geraldine brought him a daily newspaper , with the following paragraph marked MELANCHOLY ACCIDENT . 
Mr. Malthus , accompanied by a friend , was engaged in looking for a cab at the time of the unfortunate occurrence . 
As Mr. Malthus was paralytic , it is thought that his fall may have been occasioned by another seizure . 
The unhappy gentleman was well known in the most respectable circles , and his loss will be widely and deeply deplored . 
If ever a soul went straight to Hell , said Geraldine solemnly , it was that paralytic man's . 
The Prince buried his face in his hands , and remained silent . 
I am almost rejoiced , continued the Colonel , to know that he is dead . 
But for our young man of the cream tarts I confess my heart bleeds . 
Geraldine , said the Prince , raising his face , that unhappy lad was last night as innocent as you and I and this morning the guilt of blood is on his soul . 
When I think of the President , my heart grows sick within me . 
I do not know how it shall be done , but I shall have that scoundrel at my mercy as there is a God in heaven . 
What an experience , what a lesson , was that game of cards ! One , said the Colonel , never to be repeated . 
The Prince remained so long without replying , that Geraldine grew alarmed . 
You cannot mean to return , he said . 
You have suffered too much and seen too much horror already . 
The duties of your high position forbid the repetition of the hazard . 
There is much in what you say , replied Prince Florizel , and I am not altogether pleased with my own determination . 
To night , once more , we take our places at the table of the Suicide Club . 
Colonel Geraldine fell upon his knees . 
Will your Highness take my life ? he cried . 
It is his his freely but do not , O do not ! let him ask me to countenance so terrible a risk . 
Colonel Geraldine , replied the Prince , with some haughtiness of manner , your life is absolutely your own . 
I only looked for obedience and when that is unwillingly rendered , I shall look for that no longer . 
I add one word your importunity in this affair has been sufficient . 
The Master of the Horse regained his feet at once . 
Your Highness shall meet , I promise him , with no more opposition from the most devoted and grateful of his servants . 
My dear Geraldine , returned Prince Florizel , I always regret when you oblige me to remember my rank . 
Dispose of your day as you think fit , but be here before eleven in the same disguise . 
The club , on this second evening , was not so fully attended and when Geraldine and the Prince arrived , there were not above half a dozen persons in the smoking room . 
His Highness took the President aside and congratulated him warmly on the demise of Mr. Malthus . 
I like , he said , to meet with capacity , and certainly find much of it in you . 
Your profession is of a very delicate nature , but I see you are well qualified to conduct it with success and secrecy . 
The President was somewhat affected by these compliments from one of his Highness's superior bearing . 
He acknowledged them almost with humility . 
Poor Malthy ! he added , I shall hardly know the club without him . 
The most of my patrons are boys , sir , and poetical boys , who are not much company for me . 
Not but what Malthy had some poetry , too but it was of a kind that I could understand . 
I can readily imagine you should find yourself in sympathy with Mr. Malthus , returned the Prince . 
He struck me as a man of a very original disposition . 
The young man of the cream tarts was in the room , but painfully depressed and silent . 
His late companions sought in vain to lead him into conversation . 
How bitterly I wish , he cried , that I had never brought you to this infamous abode ! Begone , while you are clean handed . 
The Prince was again conscious of a certain joy in his alarms but he was astonished to see Geraldine so much more self possessed than on the night before . 
It is extraordinary , thought the Prince , that a will , made or unmade , should so greatly influence a young man's spirit . 
Attention , gentlemen ! said the President , and he began to deal . 
Three times the cards went all round the table , and neither of the marked cards had yet fallen from his hand . 
The excitement as he began the fourth distribution was overwhelming . 
There were just cards enough to go once more entirely round . 
The Prince , who sat second from the dealer's left , would receive , in the reverse mode of dealing practised at the club , the second last card . 
The third player turned up a black ace it was the ace of clubs . 
The next received a diamond , the next a heart , and so on but the ace of spades was still undelivered . 
At last , Geraldine , who sat upon the Prince's left , turned his card it was an ace , but the ace of hearts . 
When Prince Florizel saw his fate upon the table in front of him , his heart stood still . 
He was a brave man , but the sweat poured off his face . 
There were exactly fifty chances out of a hundred that he was doomed . 
He reversed the card it was the ace of spades . 
A loud roaring filled his brain , and the table swam before his eyes . 
He recognised how foolish , how criminal , had been his conduct . 
In perfect health , in the prime of his years , the heir to a throne , he had gambled away his future and that of a brave and loyal country . 
God , he cried , God forgive me ! And with that , the confusion of his senses passed away , and he regained his self possession in a moment . 
To his surprise Geraldine had disappeared . 
His Highness could not help reflecting , as the young man departed , that he would have sold his opportunity for a much more moderate sum . 
The whispered conference now came to an end . 
The holder of the ace of clubs left the room with a look of intelligence , and the President , approaching the unfortunate Prince , proffered him his hand . 
I am pleased to have met you , sir , said he , and pleased to have been in a position to do you this trifling service . 
At least , you cannot complain of delay . 
On the second evening what a stroke of luck ! The Prince endeavoured in vain to articulate something in response , but his mouth was dry and his tongue seemed paralysed . 
You feel a little sickish ? asked the President , with some show of solicitude . 
Will you take a little brandy ? The Prince signified in the affirmative , and the other immediately filled some of the spirit into a tumbler . 
Poor old Malthy ! ejaculated the President , as the Prince drained the glass . 
He drank near upon a pint , and little enough good it seemed to do him ! I am more amenable to treatment , said the Prince , a good deal revived . 
I am my own man again at once , as you perceive . 
He will continue your instructions , and him you will have the kindness to obey the authority of the club is vested in his person for the night . 
And now , added the President , I wish you a pleasant walk . 
Florizel acknowledged the salutation rather awkwardly , and took his leave . 
He put on his hat and greatcoat in the cabinet , and selected his umbrella from a corner . 
The familiarity of these acts , and the thought that he was about them for the last time , betrayed him into a fit of laughter which sounded unpleasantly in his own ears . 
He conceived a reluctance to leave the cabinet , and turned instead to the window . 
The sight of the lamps and the darkness recalled him to himself . 
Come , come , I must be a man , he thought , and tear myself away . 
At the corner of Box Court three men fell upon Prince Florizel and he was unceremoniously thrust into a carriage , which at once drove rapidly away . 
There was already an occupant . 
Will your Highness pardon my zeal ? said a well known voice . 
The Prince threw himself upon the Colonel's neck in a passion of relief . 
How can I ever thank you ? he cried . 
You can thank me effectually enough , replied the Colonel , by avoiding all such dangers in the future . 
And as for your second question , all has been managed by the simplest means . 
I arranged this afternoon with a celebrated detective . 
Secrecy has been promised and paid for . 
Your own servants have been principally engaged in the affair . 
The house in Box Court has been surrounded since nightfall , and this , which is one of your own carriages , has been awaiting you for nearly an hour . 
And the miserable creature who was to have slain me what of him ? inquired the Prince . 
He was pinioned as he left the club , replied the Colonel , and now awaits your sentence at the Palace , where he will soon be joined by his accomplices . 
Geraldine , said the Prince , you have saved me against my explicit orders , and you have done well . 
I owe you not only my life , but a lesson and I should be unworthy of my rank if I did not show myself grateful to my teacher . 
Let it be yours to choose the manner . 
There was a pause , during which the carriage continued to speed through the streets , and the two men were each buried in his own reflections . 
The silence was broken by Colonel Geraldine . 
Your Highness , said he , has by this time a considerable body of prisoners . 
There is at least one criminal among the number to whom justice should be dealt . 
Our oath forbids us all recourse to law and discretion would forbid it equally if the oath were loosened . 
May I inquire your Highness's intention ? It is decided , answered Florizel the President must fall in duel . 
It only remains to choose his adversary . 
Your Highness has permitted me to name my own recompense , said the Colonel . 
Will he permit me to ask the appointment of my brother ? It is an honourable post , but I dare assure your Highness that the lad will acquit himself with credit . 
You ask me an ungracious favour , said the Prince , but I must refuse you nothing . 
The Colonel kissed his hand with the greatest affection and at that moment the carriage rolled under the archway of the Prince's splendid residence . 
An hour after , Florizel in his official robes , and covered with all the orders of Bohemia , received the members of the Suicide Club . 
Foolish and wicked men , said he , as many of you as have been driven into this strait by the lack of fortune shall receive employment and remuneration from my officers . 
Do you , he went on , changing his tone , do you shoot well with the pistol ? Because you may have need of that accomplishment . 
When two men go travelling together , it is best to be prepared for all . 
With these words , said with much sternness , the Prince concluded his address . 
ends THE STORY OF THE YOUNG MAN WITH THE CREAM TARTS , who is now a comfortable householder in Wigmore Street , Cavendish Square . 
The number , for obvious reasons , I suppress . 
Those who care to pursue the adventures of Prince Florizel and the President of the Suicide Club , may read the HISTORY OF THE PHYSICIAN AND THE SARATOGA TRUNK . 
STORY OF THE PHYSICIAN AND THE SARATOGA TRUNK MR . 
There was a great deal of habit in his penuriousness and his virtue , which was very remarkable among his associates , was principally founded upon diffidence and youth . 
But these advances , so far from encouraging Mr. Scuddamore , plunged him into the depths of depression and bashfulness . 
The slenderness of their intercourse did not prevent him from throwing out insinuations of a very glorious order when he was safely alone with a few males . 
The room on the other side of the American's for there were three rooms on a floor in the hotel was tenanted by an old English physician of rather doubtful reputation . 
Mr. Scuddamore had made his acquaintance , and the pair would now and then dine together frugally in a restaurant across the street . 
Silas Q. Scuddamore had many little vices of the more respectable order , and was not restrained by delicacy from indulging them in many rather doubtful ways . 
Chief among his foibles stood curiosity . 
He was a born gossip and life , and especially those parts of it in which he had no experience , interested him to the degree of passion . 
Some of the plaster had evidently betrayed the secret of his spy hole , and his neighbour had been returning the compliment in kind . 
That next day Madame Zephyrine received a long visit from a tall , loosely built man of fifty or upwards , whom Silas had not hitherto seen . 
His tweed suit and coloured shirt , no less than his shaggy side whiskers , identified him as a Britisher , and his dull grey eye affected Silas with a sense of cold . 
He kept screwing his mouth from side to side and round and round during the whole colloquy , which was carried on in whispers . 
I have studied his taste to a nicety , and I tell you again and again you are the only woman of the sort that I can lay my hands on . 
In answer to this , Madame Zephyrine sighed , and appeared by a gesture to resign herself , like one yielding to unqualified authority . 
It was Carnival time , and the Ball was very full and noisy . 
He felt ready to face the devil , and strutted in the ballroom with the swagger of a cavalier . 
While he was thus parading , he became aware of Madame Zephyrine and her Britisher in conference behind a pillar . 
The cat like spirit of eaves dropping overcame him at once . 
He stole nearer and nearer on the couple from behind , until he was within earshot . 
That is the man , the Britisher was saying there with the long blond hair speaking to a girl in green . 
Silas identified a very handsome young fellow of small stature , who was plainly the object of this designation . 
It is well , said Madame Zephyrine . 
I shall do my utmost . 
But , remember , the best of us may fail in such a matter . 
Tut ! returned her companion I answer for the result . 
Have I not chosen you from thirty ? Go but be wary of the Prince . 
I cannot think what cursed accident has brought him here to night . 
The name of Prince struck gratefully on Silas's Republican hearing , and the aspect of the person to whom that name was applied exercised its usual charm upon his mind . 
I tell you , Geraldine , the former was saying , the action is madness . 
chose your brother for this perilous service , and you are bound in duty to have a guard upon his conduct . 
Does the dog imagine we are all playing comedy ? The thing is deadly earnest , Geraldine . 
I know the lad too well to interfere , replied Colonel Geraldine , and well enough not to be alarmed . 
He is more cautious than you fancy , and of an indomitable spirit . 
If it had been a woman I should not say so much , but I trust the President to him and the two valets without an instant's apprehension . 
I am gratified to hear you say so , replied the Prince but my mind is not at rest . 
I believe the question is now one between my brother and myself , replied Geraldine , with a shade of offence in his tone . 
I permit it to be so , Colonel Geraldine , returned Prince Florizel . 
Perhaps , for that very reason , you should be all the more ready to accept my counsels . 
That girl in yellow dances well . 
And the talk veered into the ordinary topics of a Paris ballroom in the Carnival . 
Silas remembered where he was , and that the hour was already near at hand when he ought to be upon the scene of his assignation . 
The eddy stranded him in a corner under the gallery , where his ear was immediately struck with the voice of Madame Zephyrine . 
She was speaking in French with the young man of the blond locks who had been pointed out by the strange Britisher not half an hour before . 
I have a character at stake , she said , or I would put no other condition than my heart recommends . 
But you have only to say so much to the porter , and he will let you go by without a word . 
But why this talk of debt ? objected her companion . 
Heavens ! said she , do you think I do not understand my own hotel ? And she went by , clinging affectionately to her companion's arm . 
This put Silas in mind of his billet . 
And then he remembered the spelling , and was a little downcast . 
But it may have been written by her maid , he imagined . 
The clock was only a few minutes from the hour , and this immediate proximity set his heart beating at a curious and rather disagreeable speed . 
He reflected with relief that he was in no way bound to put in an appearance . 
Certainly , at least , he wheeled about for a third time , and did not stop until he had found a place of concealment within a few yards of the appointed place . 
Here he went through an agony of spirit , in which he several times prayed to God for help , for Silas had been devoutly educated . 
At last the clock indicated ten minutes past the hour . 
Young Scuddamore's spirit began to rise he peered round the corner and saw no one at the place of meeting doubtless his unknown correspondent had wearied and gone away . 
He became as bold as he had formerly been timid . 
It seemed to him that if he came at all to the appointment , however late , he was clear from the charge of cowardice . 
Nay , now he began to suspect a hoax , and actually complimented himself on his shrewdness in having suspected and outmanoeuvred his mystifiers . 
He turned and beheld a lady cast in a very large mould and with somewhat stately features , but bearing no mark of severity in her looks . 
I see that you are a very self confident lady killer , said she for you make yourself expected . 
But I was determined to meet you . 
When a woman has once so far forgotten herself as to make the first advance , she has long ago left behind her all considerations of petty pride . 
Silas was overwhelmed by the size and attractions of his correspondent and the suddenness with which she had fallen upon him . 
But she soon set him at his ease . 
Alas ! she said I do not know whether I ought not to deplore this moment , great as is the pleasure you give me by your words . 
Hitherto I was alone to suffer now , poor boy , there will be two . 
I am not my own mistress . 
I dare not ask you to visit me at my own house , for I am watched by jealous eyes . 
Where do you live ? He told her that he lodged in a furnished hotel , and named the street and number . 
She seemed to reflect for some minutes , with an effort of mind . 
I see , she said at last . 
You will be faithful and obedient , will you not ? Silas assured her eagerly of his fidelity . 
Your door is probably shut by ten ? she asked . 
By eleven , answered Silas . 
At a quarter past eleven , pursued the lady , leave the house . 
Merely cry for the door to be opened , and be sure you fall into no talk with the porter , as that might ruin everything . 
Go straight to the corner where the Luxembourg Gardens join the Boulevard there you will find me waiting you . 
I cannot see the use of all these instructions , said Silas . 
I believe you are already beginning to treat me as a master , she cried , tapping him with her fan upon the arm . 
Patience , patience ! that should come in time . 
A woman loves to be obeyed at first , although afterwards she finds her pleasure in obeying . 
Do as I ask you , for Heaven's sake , or I will answer for nothing . 
I think you may trust me to protect myself against intruders , he said , not without a little pique . 
That is how I should prefer the thing arranged , she answered coldly . 
I know you men you think nothing of a woman's reputation . 
Silas blushed and somewhat hung his head for the scheme he had in view had involved a little vain glorying before his acquaintances . 
Above all , she added , do not speak to the porter as you come out . 
And why ? said he . 
Of all your instructions , that seems to me the least important . 
You at first doubted the wisdom of some of the others , which you now see to be very necessary , she replied . 
Heavens ! she cried , is it so late ? I have not an instant to lose . 
At last , and most reluctantly , he began to retrace his steps towards his hotel . 
On the way he remembered the words he had heard pass between Madame Zephyrine and the blond young man , and they gave him an indefinite uneasiness . 
It appears , he reflected , that every one has to tell lies to our porter . 
He rang the bell , the door opened before him , and the porter in his bed clothes came to offer him a light . 
Has he gone ? inquired the porter . 
He ? Whom do you mean ? asked Silas , somewhat sharply , for he was irritated by his disappointment . 
I did not notice him go out , continued the porter , but I trust you paid him . 
We do not care , in this house , to have lodgers who cannot meet their liabilities . 
What the devil do you mean ? demanded Silas rudely . 
I cannot understand a word of this farrago . 
The short blond young man who came for his debt , returned the other . 
Him it is I mean . 
Who else should it be , when I had your orders to admit no one else ? Why , good God , of course he never came , retorted Silas . 
I believe what I believe , returned the porter , putting his tongue into his cheek with a most roguish air . 
Do you not want a light then ? cried the porter . 
But Silas only hurried the faster , and did not pause until he had reached the seventh landing and stood in front of his own door . 
There he waited a moment to recover his breath , assailed by the worst forebodings and almost dreading to enter the room . 
When at last he did so he was relieved to find it dark , and to all appearance , untenanted . 
He drew a long breath . 
Here he was , home again in safety , and this should be his last folly as certainly as it had been his first . 
The matches stood on a little table by the bed , and he began to grope his way in that direction . 
As he moved , his apprehensions grew upon him once more , and he was pleased , when his foot encountered an obstacle , to find it nothing more alarming than a chair . 
At last he touched curtains . 
He lowered his hand , but what it touched was not simply a counterpane it was a counterpane with something underneath it like the outline of a human leg . 
Silas withdrew his arm and stood a moment petrified . 
What , what , he thought , can this betoken ? He listened intently , but there was no sound of breathing . 
There was something in his bed . 
What it was he knew not , but there was something there . 
It was some seconds before he could move . 
Then , guided by an instinct , he fell straight upon the matches , and keeping his back towards the bed lighted a candle . 
As soon as the flame had kindled , he turned slowly round and looked for what he feared to see . 
Sure enough , there was the worst of his imaginations realised . 
Silas uttered a long , tremulous wail , dropped the candle , and fell on his knees beside the bed . 
Silas was awakened from the stupor into which his terrible discovery had plunged him by a prolonged but discreet tapping at the door . 
It took him some seconds to remember his position and when he hastened to prevent anyone from entering it was already too late . 
I thought I heard a cry , began the Doctor , and fearing you might be unwell I did not hesitate to offer this intrusion . 
Silas , with a flushed face and a fearful beating heart , kept between the Doctor and the bed but he found no voice to answer . 
You are in the dark , pursued the Doctor and yet you have not even begun to prepare for rest . 
He avoided the Doctor with a febrile movement , and , throwing himself upon the floor , burst into a flood of weeping . 
Noel perceived the dead man in the bed his face darkened and hurrying back to the door which he had left ajar , he hastily closed and double locked it . 
Up ! he cried , addressing Silas in strident tones this is no time for weeping . 
What have you done ? How came this body in your room ? Speak freely to one who may be helpful . 
Thus encouraged , Silas gathered himself together , and in a broken voice , and helped out by the Doctor's interrogations , contrived at last to put him in possession of the facts . 
Noel , I am much abused , or you have fallen innocently into the most dangerous hands in Europe . 
I would have it a piece of education in all schools ! cried the Doctor angrily . 
Cultivate this art in future , my poor boy you may find it of momentous service . 
The future ! repeated Silas . 
What future is there left for me except the gallows ? Youth is but a cowardly season , returned the Doctor and a man's own troubles look blacker than they are . 
I am old , and yet I never despair . 
Can I tell such a story to the police ? demanded Silas . 
Assuredly not , replied the Doctor . 
I am then lost , indeed ! cried Silas . 
I have not said so , answered Dr . 
Noel for I am a cautious man . 
But look at this ! objected Silas , pointing to the body . 
Here is this object in my bed not to be explained , not to be disposed of , not to be regarded without horror . 
Horror ? replied the Doctor . 
No. When this sort of clock has run down , it is no more to me than an ingenious piece of mechanism , to be investigated with the bistoury . 
The grace , the attraction , the terror , have all gone from it with the animating spirit . 
Accustom yourself to look upon it with composure for if my scheme is practicable you will have to live some days in constant proximity to that which now so greatly horrifies you . 
Your scheme ? cried Silas . 
What is that ? Tell me speedily , Doctor for I have scarcely courage enough to continue to exist . 
Without replying , Doctor Noel turned towards the bed , and proceeded to examine the corpse . 
Quite dead , he murmured . 
Yes , as I had supposed , the pockets empty . 
Yes , and the name cut off the shirt . 
Their work has been done thoroughly and well . 
Fortunately , he is of small stature . 
Silas followed these words with an extreme anxiety . 
At last the Doctor , his autopsy completed , took a chair and addressed the young American with a smile . 
Since I came into your room , said he , although my ears and my tongue have been so busy , I have not suffered my eyes to remain idle . 
Until this moment I have never been able to conceive the utility of these erections but then I began to have a glimmer . 
Whether it was for convenience in the slave trade , or to obviate the results of too ready an employment of the bowie knife , I cannot bring myself to decide . 
But one thing I see plainly the object of such a box is to contain a human body . 
Surely , cried Silas , surely this is not a time for jesting . 
Although I may express myself with some degree of pleasantry , replied the Doctor , the purport of my words is entirely serious . 
And the first thing we have to do , my young friend , is to empty your coffer of all that it contains . 
Silas , obeying the authority of Doctor Noel , put himself at his disposition . 
Now , said the Doctor , the first step has been taken on the way to your deliverance . 
Meantime , follow me to my room , where I shall give you a safe and powerful opiate for , whatever you do , you must have rest . 
The next day was the longest in Silas's memory it seemed as if it would never be done . 
He denied himself to his friends , and sat in a corner with his eyes fixed upon the Saratoga trunk in dismal contemplation . 
His own former indiscretions were now returned upon him in kind for the observatory had been once more opened , and he was conscious of an almost continual study from Madame Zephyrine's apartment . 
Late in the evening Dr . 
Noel entered the room carrying in his hand a pair of sealed envelopes without address , one somewhat bulky , and the other so slim as to seem without enclosure . 
Silas , he said , seating himself at the table , the time has now come for me to explain my plan for your salvation . 
To morrow morning , at an early hour , Prince Florizel of Bohemia returns to London , after having diverted himself for a few days with the Parisian Carnival . 
Now , it was necessary for you to gain London with your trunk unopened . 
I applied to Colonel Geraldine , and succeeded in obtaining a favourable answer . 
It is probable enough for the Prince loves to mix with all societies , replied the Doctor . 
Once arrived in London , he pursued , your task is nearly ended . 
The Doctor seemed painfully impressed . 
Boy , he answered , you do not know how hard a thing you ask of me . 
I am now inured to humiliation and it would be strange if I refused you this , after having granted you so much . 
It is to one of the persons who then obeyed me that I now address myself to deliver you from your burden . 
You are difficult to please , Mr. Scuddamore , said he but I now offer you your choice of company between the murdered man and the murderer . 
If your conscience is too nice to accept my aid , say so , and I will immediately leave you . 
Thenceforward you can deal with your trunk and its belongings as best suits your upright conscience . 
I own myself wrong , replied Silas . 
I should have remembered how generously you offered to shield me , even before I had convinced you of my innocence , and I continue to listen to your counsels with gratitude . 
That is well , returned the Doctor and I perceive you are beginning to learn some of the lessons of experience . 
If you do not think I have already meddled sufficiently in your concerns , believe me , from my heart I think the contrary . 
Take or leave my services as I offer them and trouble me with no more words of gratitude , for I value your consideration even more lightly than I do your intellect . 
So saying , the Doctor arose from his chair , repeated his directions briefly and clearly , and departed from the room without permitting Silas any time to answer . 
The journey passed over without much incident , although the young man was horrified to overhear the sailors and railway porters complaining among themselves about the unusual weight of the Prince's baggage . 
Silas travelled in a carriage with the valets , for Prince Florizel chose to be alone with his Master of the Horse . 
There is a young man , observed the Prince , who must have some cause for sorrow . 
That , replied Geraldine , is the American for whom I obtained permission to travel with your suite . 
Remember , if you please , that I shall be glad at any future time to lay you under a more serious obligation . 
And he then put some questions as to the political condition of America , which Silas answered with sense and propriety . 
You are still a young man , said the Prince but I observe you to be very serious for your years . 
Perhaps you allow your attention to be too much occupied with grave studies . 
But , perhaps , on the other hand , I am myself indiscreet and touch upon a painful subject . 
I have certainly cause to be the most miserable of men , said Silas never has a more innocent person been more dismally abused . 
I will not ask you for your confidence , returned Prince Florizel . 
But do not forget that Colonel Geraldine's recommendation is an unfailing passport and that I am not only willing , but possibly more able than many others , to do you a service . 
The train arrived at Charing Cross , where the officers of the Revenue respected the baggage of Prince Florizel in the usual manner . 
The most elegant equipages were in waiting and Silas was driven , along with the rest , to the Prince's residence . 
There Colonel Geraldine sought him out , and expressed himself pleased to have been of any service to a friend of the physician's , for whom he professed a great consideration . 
I hope , he added , that you will find none of your porcelain injured . 
Special orders were given along the line to deal tenderly with the Prince's effects . 
Silas now broke the seal of the envelope containing the address , and directed the stately footman to drive him to Box Court , opening off the Strand . 
It seemed as if the place were not at all unknown to the man , for he looked startled and begged a repetition of the order . 
It was with a heart full of alarms , that Silas mounted into the luxurious vehicle , and was driven to his destination . 
The entrance to Box Court was too narrow for the passage of a coach it was a mere footway between railings , with a post at either end . 
If you please , said Silas . 
But he knocked with as good a countenance as he could muster up , and presented the other envelope to him who opened . 
Would you like to leave your box ? he added . 
Dearly , cried Silas and the next moment he repented his precipitation , and declared , with equal emphasis , that he would rather carry the box along with him to the hotel . 
The Prince's equipage deposited Silas at the Craven Hotel in Craven Street , and immediately drove away , leaving him alone with the servants of the inn . 
The only vacant room , it appeared , was a little den up four pairs of stairs , and looking towards the back . 
To this hermitage , with infinite trouble and complaint , a pair of stout porters carried the Saratoga trunk . 
It is needless to mention that Silas kept closely at their heels throughout the ascent , and had his heart in his mouth at every corner . 
A single false step , he reflected , and the box might go over the banisters and land its fatal contents , plainly discovered , on the pavement of the hall . 
Let it be ! cried Silas . 
I shall want nothing from it while I stay here . 
You might have let it lie in the hall , then , growled the man a thing as big and heavy as a church . 
What you have inside I cannot fancy . 
If it is all money , you are a richer man than me . 
Money ? repeated Silas , in a sudden perturbation . 
What do you mean by money ? I have no money , and you are speaking like a fool . 
All right , captain , retorted the boots with a wink . 
There's nobody will touch your lordship's money . 
I'm as safe as the bank , he added but as the box is heavy , I shouldn't mind drinking something to your lordship's health . 
Silas pressed two Napoleons upon his acceptance , apologising , at the same time , for being obliged to trouble him with foreign money , and pleading his recent arrival for excuse . 
But the weather was cool , and the trunk still managed to contain his shocking secret . 
He took a chair beside it , and buried his face in his hands , and his mind in the most profound reflection . 
If he were not speedily relieved , no question but he must be speedily discovered . 
Alone in a strange city , without friends or accomplices , if the Doctor's introduction failed him , he was indubitably a lost New Englander . 
Two very sad betting men were playing billiards , attended by a moist , consumptive marker and for the moment Silas imagined that these were the only occupants of the apartment . 
But at the next glance his eye fell upon a person smoking in the farthest corner , with lowered eyes and a most respectable and modest aspect . 
The New Englander simply turned and ran , nor did he pause until he had locked and bolted himself into his bedroom . 
There , all night long , a prey to the most terrible imaginations , he watched beside the fatal boxful of dead flesh . 
Midnight had sounded some time , when , impelled by uneasy suspicions , Silas opened his bedroom door and peered into the passage . 
It was dimly illuminated by a single jet of gas and some distance off he perceived a man sleeping on the floor in the costume of an hotel under servant . 
Silas drew near the man on tiptoe . 
He lay partly on his back , partly on his side , and his right forearm concealed his face from recognition . 
Good night , sir , said the man , pleasantly . 
But Silas was too profoundly moved to find an answer , and regained his room in silence . 
Towards morning , worn out by apprehension , he fell asleep on his chair , with his head forward on the trunk . 
He hurried to open , and found the boots without . 
You are the gentleman who called yesterday at Box Court ? he asked . 
Silas , with a quaver , admitted that he had done so . 
Then this note is for you , added the servant , proffering a sealed envelope . 
Silas tore it open , and found inside the words Twelve o'clock . 
Perhaps five minutes had elapsed before the man turned leisurely about , and disclosed the features of Prince Florizel of Bohemia . 
So , sir , he said , with great severity , this is the manner in which you abuse my politeness . 
Indeed , cried Silas , I am innocent of everything except misfortune . 
And in a hurried voice , and with the greatest ingenuousness , he recounted to the Prince the whole history of his calamity . 
I see I have been mistaken , said his Highness , when he had heard him to an end . 
You are no other than a victim , and since I am not to punish you may be sure I shall do my utmost to help . 
And now , he continued , to business . 
Open your box at once , and let me see what it contains . 
I almost fear to look upon it , he exclaimed . 
Nay , replied the Prince , have you not looked at it already ? This is a form of sentimentality to be resisted . 
Nerve yourself , Mr. Scuddamore , and then , seeing that Silas still hesitated , I do not desire to give another name to my request , he added . 
The young American awoke as if out of a dream , and with a shiver of repugnance addressed himself to loose the straps and open the lock of the Saratoga trunk . 
The Prince stood by , watching with a composed countenance and his hands behind his back . 
The body was quite stiff , and it cost Silas a great effort , both moral and physical , to dislodge it from its position , and discover the face . 
Prince Florizel started back with an exclamation of painful surprise . 
Alas ! he cried , you little know , Mr. Scuddamore , what a cruel gift you have brought me . 
Silas was moved at the sight of his emotion . 
He tried to murmur some consolatory words , and burst into tears . 
The Prince , touched by his obvious intention , came up to him and took him by the hand . 
Command yourself , said he . 
We have both much to learn , and we shall both be better men for to day's meeting . 
Silas thanked him in silence with an affectionate look . 
The actual criminal ! repeated Silas in astonishment . 
Even so , returned the Prince . 
Seek to pry no further in these perilous affairs , but content yourself with your own miraculous escape , and leave this house at once . 
I have pressing affairs , and must arrange at once about this poor clay , which was so lately a gallant and handsome youth . 
Republican as he was , the young American took off his hat with almost a sentiment of devotion to the retreating carriage . 
And the same night he started by rail on his return to Paris . 
is the end of THE HISTORY OF THE PHYSICIAN AND THE SARATOGA TRUNK . 
THE ADVENTURE OF THE HANSOM CABS Lieutenant Brackenbury Rich had greatly distinguished himself in one of the lesser Indian hill wars . 
On the day following his arrival he dined alone at a military club . 
He was in dress , for he had entertained the notion of visiting a theatre . 
Swinging his cane , he took his way westward . 
It was a mild evening , already dark , and now and then threatening rain . 
They talk of war , he thought , but this is the great battlefield of mankind . 
And then he began to wonder that he should walk so long in this complicated scene , and not chance upon so much as the shadow of an adventure for himself . 
All in good time , he reflected . 
I am still a stranger , and perhaps wear a strange air . 
But I must be drawn into the eddy before long . 
The night was already well advanced when a plump of cold rain fell suddenly out of the darkness . 
Brackenbury paused under some trees , and as he did so he caught sight of a hansom cabman making him a sign that he was disengaged . 
The circumstance fell in so happily to the occasion that he at once raised his cane in answer , and had soon ensconced himself in the London gondola . 
Where to , sir ? asked the driver . 
Where you please , said Brackenbury . 
And immediately , at a pace of surprising swiftness , the hansom drove off through the rain into a maze of villas . 
He had heard tales of strangers falling ill in London . 
The house was brilliantly lighted up . 
Another hansom had just driven away , and Brackenbury could see a gentleman being admitted at the front door and received by several liveried servants . 
Here we are , sir , said the driver . 
Where ? You told me to take you where I pleased , sir , returned the man with a chuckle , and here we are . 
I must ask you to explain , said he . 
Do you mean to turn me out into the rain ? My good man , I suspect the choice is mine . 
The choice is certainly yours , replied the driver but when I tell you all , I believe I know how a gentleman of your figure will decide . 
There is a gentlemen's party in this house . 
I do not know whether the master be a stranger to London and without acquaintances of his own or whether he is a man of odd notions . 
But certainly I was hired to kidnap single gentlemen in evening dress , as many as I pleased , but military officers by preference . 
You have simply to go in and say that Mr. Morris invited you . 
Are you Mr. Morris ? inquired the Lieutenant . 
Oh , no , replied the cabman . 
Mr. Morris is the person of the house . 
It is not a common way of collecting guests , said Brackenbury but an eccentric man might very well indulge the whim without any intention to offend . 
Those who have no fancy for such an adventure , Mr. Morris said , were not the guests for him . 
These words decided the Lieutenant on the spot . 
After all , he reflected , as he descended from the hansom , I have not had long to wait for my adventure . 
The cabman has been paid , observed the servant in a very civil tone and he proceeded to escort Brackenbury along the path and up the steps . 
Here a grave butler inquired his name , and announcing Lieutenant Brackenbury Rich , ushered him into the drawing room of the house . 
A young man , slender and singularly handsome , came forward and greeted him with an air at once courtly and affectionate . 
Hundreds of candles , of the finest wax , lit up a room that was perfumed , like the staircase , with a profusion of rare and beautiful flowering shrubs . 
A side table was loaded with tempting viands . 
Several servants went to and fro with fruits and goblets of champagne . 
The company was perhaps sixteen in number , all men , few beyond the prime of life , and with hardly an exception , of a dashing and capable exterior . 
They were divided into two groups , one about a roulette board , and the other surrounding a table at which one of their number held a bank of baccarat . 
I see , thought Brackenbury , I am in a private gambling saloon , and the cabman was a tout . 
At a second view Mr. Morris surprised him still more than on the first . 
I have heard of you , Lieutenant Rich , said Mr. Morris , lowering his tone and believe me I am gratified to make your acquaintance . 
Your looks accord with the reputation that has preceded you from India . 
And if you will forget for a while the irregularity of your presentation in my house , I shall feel it not only an honour , but a genuine pleasure besides . 
A man who makes a mouthful of barbarian cavaliers , he added with a laugh , should not be appalled by a breach of etiquette , however serious . 
And he led him towards the sideboard and pressed him to partake of some refreshment . 
Upon my word , the Lieutenant reflected , this is one of the pleasantest fellows and , I do not doubt , one of the most agreeable societies in London . 
It was while he was thus idling that he became aware of a sharp scrutiny to which the whole of the guests were subjected . 
Brackenbury began to wonder if this were indeed a gambling hell it had so much the air of a private inquisition . 
The fellows around him laughed and made their game but Brackenbury had lost interest in the guests . 
This Morris , thought he , is no idler in the room . 
Some deep purpose inspires him let it be mine to fathom it . 
After a certain number of repetitions , this performance excited Brackenbury's curiosity to a high degree . 
He determined to be at the bottom of this minor mystery at once and strolling into the ante room , found a deep window recess concealed by curtains of the fashionable green . 
Here he hurriedly ensconced himself nor had he to wait long before the sound of steps and voices drew near him from the principal apartment . 
In a place so great as London accidents must continually happen and the best that we can hope is to remedy them with as small delay as possible . 
I will not deny that I fear you have made a mistake and honoured my poor house by inadvertence for , to speak openly , I cannot at all remember your appearance . 
Mr. John or Mr. James Morris ? inquired the host . 
I really cannot tell you , returned the unfortunate guest . 
I am not personally acquainted with the gentleman , any more than I am with yourself . 
I see , said Mr. Morris . 
There is another person of the same name farther down the street and I have no doubt the policeman will be able to supply you with his number . 
Meantime , I would not for the world detain you longer from your friends . 
But towards the end of that time the arrivals grew few and far between , and at length ceased entirely , while the process of elimination was continued with unimpaired activity . 
As the guests grew thinner , Lieutenant Rich strolled for a moment out of the drawing room into the hall in quest of fresher air . 
But he had no sooner passed the threshold of the ante chamber than he was brought to a dead halt by a discovery of the most surprising nature . 
It was like the end of a country ball , where everything has been supplied by contract . 
Brackenbury had indeed some matter for reflection . 
First , the guests , who were no real guests after all , had been dismissed and now the servants , who could hardly be genuine servants , were actively dispersing . 
Was the whole establishment a sham ? he asked himself . 
The mushroom of a single night which should disappear before morning ? Watching a favourable opportunity , Brackenbury dashed upstairs to the highest regions of the house . 
It was as he had expected . 
He ran from room to room , and saw not a stick of furniture nor so much as a picture on the walls . 
Although the house had been painted and papered , it was not only uninhabited at present , but plainly had never been inhabited at all . 
Many had left during his absence and counting the Lieutenant and his host , there were not more than five persons in the drawing room recently so thronged . 
Mr. Morris greeted him , as he re entered the apartment , with a smile , and immediately rose to his feet . 
It is now time , gentlemen , said he , to explain my purpose in decoying you from your amusements . 
You are all gentlemen , he continued , your appearance does you that much justice , and I ask for no better security . 
A very tall , black man , with a heavy stoop , immediately responded to this appeal . 
I commend your frankness , Sir , said he and , for my part , I go . 
I make no reflections but I cannot deny that you fill me with suspicious thoughts . 
I go myself , as I say and perhaps you will think I have no right to add words to my example . 
On the contrary , replied Mr. Morris , I am obliged to you for all you say . 
It would be impossible to exaggerate the gravity of my proposal . 
Well , gentlemen , what do you say ? said the tall man , addressing the others . 
The speaker pronounced the last words with an intonation which added to their force and his face wore a singular expression , full of gravity and significance . 
Another of the company rose hastily , and , with some appearance of alarm , prepared to take his leave . 
I have chosen my men like Joshua in the Bible , said Mr. Morris , and I now believe I have the pick of London . 
It is not for nothing , he cried , that I have been for years the companion and the pupil of the bravest and wisest potentate in Europe . 
At the affair of Bunderchang , observed the Major , I asked for twelve volunteers , and every trooper in the ranks replied to my appeal . 
But a gaming party is not the same thing as a regiment under fire . 
You may be pleased , I suppose , to have found two , and two who will not fail you at a push . 
As for the pair who ran away , I count them among the most pitiful hounds I ever met with . 
Lieutenant Rich , he added , addressing Brackenbury , I have heard much of you of late and I cannot doubt but you have also heard of me . 
And the veteran tendered his hand , which was red and tremulous , to the young Lieutenant . 
Who has not ? answered Brackenbury . 
Three days ago the person of whom I speak disappeared suddenly from home and , until this morning , I received no hint of his situation . 
You will fancy my alarm when I tell you that he is engaged upon a work of private justice . 
Bound by an unhappy oath , too lightly sworn , he finds it necessary , without the help of law , to rid the earth of an insidious and bloody villain . 
Already two of our friends , and one of them my own born brother , have perished in the enterprise . 
He himself , or I am much deceived , is taken in the same fatal toils . 
But at least he still lives and still hopes , as this billet sufficiently proves . 
I must request you not to fail me by a second . 
Pray bring my case of swords , and , if you can find them , one or two gentlemen of conduct and discretion to whom my person is unknown . 
My name must not be used in this affair . 
My scheme was at least original and I am far from regretting an action which has procured me the services of Major O'Rooke and Lieutenant Brackenbury Rich . 
But the servants in the street will have a strange awakening . 
The house which this evening was full of lights and visitors they will find uninhabited and for sale to morrow morning . 
Thus even the most serious concerns , added the Colonel , have a merry side . 
And let us add a merry ending , said Brackenbury . 
The Colonel consulted his watch . 
It is now hard on two , he said . 
We have an hour before us , and a swift cab is at the door . 
Tell me if I may count upon your help . 
During a long life , replied Major O'Rooke , I never took back my hand from anything , nor so much as hedged a bet . 
Rochester House was a magnificent residence on the banks of the canal . 
The large extent of the garden isolated it in an unusual degree from the annoyances of neighbourhood . 
It seemed the PARC AUX CERFS of some great nobleman or millionaire . 
The cab was discharged , and the three gentlemen were not long in discovering the small door , which was a sort of postern in a lane between two garden walls . 
Suddenly Geraldine raised his finger to command silence , and all three bent their hearing to the utmost . 
Is the grave dug ? asked one . 
It is , replied the other behind the laurel hedge . 
When the job is done , we can cover it with a pile of stakes . 
The first speaker laughed , and the sound of his merriment was shocking to the listeners on the other side . 
In an hour from now , he said . 
And by the sound of the steps it was obvious that the pair had separated , and were proceeding in contrary directions . 
Almost immediately after the postern door was cautiously opened , a white face was protruded into the lane , and a hand was seen beckoning to the watchers . 
In dead silence the three passed the door , which was immediately locked behind them , and followed their guide through several garden alleys to the kitchen entrance of the house . 
Their conductor preceded them , carrying the candle . 
He was a lean man , much bent , but still agile and he turned from time to time and admonished silence and caution by his gestures . 
Colonel Geraldine followed on his heels , the case of swords under one arm , and a pistol ready in the other . 
At the top the guide threw open a door and ushered the three officers before him into a small apartment , lighted by a smoky lamp and the glow of a modest fire . 
At the chimney corner sat a man in the early prime of life , and of a stout but courtly and commanding appearance . 
Welcome , said he , extending his hand to Colonel Geraldine . 
I knew I might count on your exactitude . 
On my devotion , replied the Colonel , with a bow . 
I hope and believe you will be able to forgive me this unpleasant evening and for men of your stamp it will be enough to know that you are conferring a considerable favour . 
Your Highness , said the Major , must pardon my bluntness . 
I am unable to hide what I know . 
For some time back I have suspected Major Hammersmith , but Mr. Godall is unmistakable . 
To seek two men in London unacquainted with Prince Florizel of Bohemia was to ask too much at Fortune's hands . 
Prince Florizel ! cried Brackenbury in amazement . 
And he gazed with the deepest interest on the features of the celebrated personage before him . 
I shall not lament the loss of my incognito , remarked the Prince , for it enables me to thank you with the more authority . 
You would have done as much for Mr. Godall , I feel sure , as for the Prince of Bohemia but the latter can perhaps do more for you . 
The gain is mine , he added , with a courteous gesture . 
It is well , Dr . 
Noel , replied Florizel , aloud and then addressing the others , You will excuse me , gentlemen , he added , if I have to leave you in the dark . 
He moved towards the door , and placed himself at one side of it in an attitude of the wariest attention . 
You will have the kindness , he said , to maintain the strictest silence , and to conceal yourselves in the densest of the shadow . 
The three officers and the physician hastened to obey , and for nearly ten minutes the only sound in Rochester House was occasioned by the excursions of the rats behind the woodwork . 
At last a hand was laid upon the door , and the bolt shot back with a slight report . 
There followed another pause , during which Brackenbury could see the Prince draw himself together noiselessly as if for some unusual exertion . 
Then the door opened , letting in a little more of the light of the morning and the figure of a man appeared upon the threshold and stood motionless . 
He was tall , and carried a knife in his hand . 
Even in the twilight they could see his upper teeth bare and glistening , for his mouth was open like that of a hound about to leap . 
The next moment he crossed the threshold . 
Noel , he said , you will be so good as to re light the lamp . 
And relinquishing the charge of his prisoner to Geraldine and Brackenbury , he crossed the room and set his back against the chimney piece . 
As soon as the lamp had kindled , the party beheld an unaccustomed sternness on the Prince's features . 
President , he said , you have laid your last snare , and your own feet are taken in it . 
The day is beginning it is your last morning . 
You have just swum the Regent's Canal it is your last bathe in this world . 
Your old accomplice , Dr . 
Noel , so far from betraying me , has delivered you into my hands for judgment . 
And the grave you had dug for me this afternoon shall serve , in God's almighty providence , to hide your own just doom from the curiosity of mankind . 
Kneel and pray , sir , if you have a mind that way for your time is short , and God is weary of your iniquities . 
Gentlemen , continued Florizel , resuming the ordinary tone of his conversation , this is a fellow who has long eluded me , but whom , thanks to Dr . 
Noel , I now have tightly by the heels . 
Even in an affair of this sort I desire to preserve the forms of honour . 
For the first time since he was captured and disarmed the President raised his head , and it was plain that he began instantly to pluck up courage . 
Is it to be stand up ? he asked eagerly , and between you and me ? I mean so far to honour you , replied the Prince . 
Oh , come ! cried the President . 
And the President , liberated by those who had detained him , stepped up to the table and began , with minute attention , to select a sword . 
He was highly elated , and seemed to feel no doubt that he should issue victorious from the contest . 
The spectators grew alarmed in the face of so entire a confidence , and adjured Prince Florizel to reconsider his intention . 
It is but a farce , he answered and I think I can promise you , gentlemen , that it will not be long a playing . 
Your Highness will be careful not to over reach , said Colonel Geraldine . 
Geraldine , returned the Prince , did you ever know me fail in a debt of honour ? I owe you this man's death , and you shall have it . 
The President at last satisfied himself with one of the rapiers , and signified his readiness by a gesture that was not devoid of a rude nobility . 
The nearness of peril , and the sense of courage , even to this obnoxious villain , lent an air of manhood and a certain grace . 
The Prince helped himself at random to a sword . 
Colonel Geraldine and Doctor Noel , he said , will have the goodness to await me in this room . 
I wish no personal friend of mine to be involved in this transaction . 
Major O'Rooke , you are a man of some years and a settled reputation let me recommend the President to your good graces . 
Lieutenant Rich will be so good as lend me his attentions a young man cannot have too much experience in such affairs . 
Your Highness , replied Brackenbury , it is an honour I shall prize extremely . 
It is well , returned Prince Florizel I shall hope to stand your friend in more important circumstances . 
And so saying he led the way out of the apartment and down the kitchen stairs . 
The two men who were thus left alone threw open the window and leaned out , straining every sense to catch an indication of the tragical events that were about to follow . 
The rain was now over day had almost come , and the birds were piping in the shrubbery and on the forest trees of the garden . 
He has taken him towards the grave , said Dr . 
Noel , with a shudder . 
God , cried the Colonel , God defend the right ! And they awaited the event in silence , the Doctor shaking with fear , the Colonel in an agony of sweat . 
It was the Prince and the two Indian officers who entered . 
God had defended the right . 
Look , Geraldine , he continued , throwing his sword upon the floor , there is the blood of the man who killed your brother . 
It should be a welcome sight . 
The lesson , your Highness , has been a cruel one for me and I await my own turn with deadly apprehension . 
What was I saying ? cried the Prince . 
I have punished , and here is the man beside us who can help me to undo . 
Noel ! you and I have before us many a day of hard and honourable toil and perhaps , before we have none , you may have more than redeemed your early errors . 
And in the meantime , said the Doctor , let me go and bury my oldest friend . 
Two years later , he was left an orphan and almost a beggar . 
For all active and industrious pursuits , Harry was unfitted alike by nature and training . 
Blond and pink , with dove's eyes and a gentle smile , he had an air of agreeable tenderness and melancholy , and the most submissive and caressing manners . 
But when all is said , he was not the man to lead armaments of war , or direct the councils of a State . 
In short , Sir Thomas's correspondence fell into pitiful arrears , and my Lady had another lady's maid . 
The door being unfortunately open , Mr. Hartley fell downstairs head foremost . 
He arose somewhat hurt and very deeply aggrieved . 
Immediately after he had been outraged by the military foot , he hurried to the boudoir and recounted his sorrows . 
No more do I , you may say . 
A woman can earn her pardon for a good year of disobedience by a single adroit submission and , besides , no one is married to his private secretary . 
Harry's countenance fell tears came into his eyes , and he gazed on Lady Vandeleur with a tender reproach . 
My Lady , said he , what is an insult ? I should think little indeed of any one who could not forgive them by the score . 
But to leave one's friends to tear up the bonds of affection He was unable to continue , for his emotion choked him , and he began to weep . 
Lady Vandeleur looked at him with a curious expression . 
This little fool , she thought , imagines himself to be in love with me . 
Why should he not become my servant instead of the General's ? He is good natured , obliging , and understands dress and besides it will keep him out of mischief . 
He is positively too pretty to be unattached . 
That night she talked over the General , who was already somewhat ashamed of his vivacity and Harry was transferred to the feminine department , where his life was little short of heavenly . 
He was always dressed with uncommon nicety , wore delicate flowers in his button hole , and could entertain a visitor with tact and pleasantry . 
Nor could he think enough of his existence from a moral point of view . 
One fine morning he came into the drawing room and began to arrange some music on the top of the piano . 
The private secretary , to whose entrance they paid no regard , could not avoid overhearing a part of their conversation . 
To day or never , said the lady . 
Once and for all , it shall be done to day . 
To day , if it must be , replied the brother , with a sigh . 
But it is a false step , a ruinous step , Clara and we shall live to repent it dismally . 
Lady Vandeleur looked her brother steadily and somewhat strangely in the face . 
You forget , she said the man must die at last . 
Upon my word , Clara , said Pendragon , I believe you are the most heartless rascal in England . 
You men , she returned , are so coarsely built , that you can never appreciate a shade of meaning . 
You are yourselves rapacious , violent , immodest , careless of distinction and yet the least thought for the future shocks you in a woman . 
I have no patience with such stuff . 
You would despise in a common banker the imbecility that you expect to find in us . 
You are very likely right , replied her brother you were always cleverer than I. And , anyway , you know my motto The family before all . 
Yes , Charlie , she returned , taking his hand in hers , I know your motto better than you know it yourself . 
'And Clara before the family ! Is not that the second part of it ? Indeed , you are the best of brothers , and I love you dearly . 
Mr. Pendragon got up , looking a little confused by these family endearments . 
I had better not be seen , said he . 
I understand my part to a miracle , and I'll keep an eye on the Tame Cat . 
He is an abject creature , and might ruin all . 
She kissed the tips of her fingers to him daintily and the brother withdrew by the boudoir and the back stair . 
Harry , said Lady Vandeleur , turning towards the secretary as soon as they were alone , I have a commission for you this morning . 
But you shall take a cab I cannot have my secretary freckled . 
She spoke the last words with emphasis and a look of half motherly pride that caused great contentment to poor Harry and he professed himself charmed to find an opportunity of serving her . 
It is another of our great secrets , she went on archly , and no one must know of it but my secretary and me . 
It is you , said Harry gallantly , who are so kind to me . 
You treat me like Like a mother , interposed Lady Vandeleur I try to be a mother to you . 
Or , at least , she corrected herself with a smile , almost a mother . 
I am afraid I am too young to be your mother really . 
Let us say a friend a dear friend . 
She paused long enough to let her words take effect in Harry's sentimental quarters , but not long enough to allow him a reply . 
But all this is beside our purpose , she resumed . 
You will find a bandbox in the left hand side of the oak wardrobe it is underneath the pink slip that I wore on Wednesday with my Mechlin . 
Do you understand ? Answer , if you please answer ! This is extremely important , and I must ask you to pay some attention . 
Will you look at this , madam ? cried he . 
Mr. Hartley , said Lady Vandeleur , I think you understand what you have to do . 
May I ask you to see to it at once ? Stop , said the General , addressing Harry , one word before you go . 
And then , turning again to Lady Vandeleur , What is this precious fellow's errand ? he demanded . 
I trust him no further than I do yourself , let me tell you . 
If he had as much as the rudiments of honesty , he would scorn to stay in this house and what he does for his wages is a mystery to all the world . 
What is his errand , madam ? and why are you hurrying him away ? I supposed you had something to say to me in private , replied the lady . 
You spoke about an errand , insisted the General . 
Do not attempt to deceive me in my present state of temper . 
You certainly spoke about an errand . 
If you insist on making your servants privy to our humiliating dissensions , replied Lady Vandeleur , perhaps I had better ask Mr. Hartley to sit down . 
No ? she continued then you may go , Mr. Hartley . 
I trust you may remember all that you have heard in this room it may be useful to you . 
There was a skeleton in the house , as he well knew . 
The bottomless extravagance and the unknown liabilities of the wife had long since swallowed her own fortune , and threatened day by day to engulph that of the husband . 
He found the bandbox where it had been described , arranged his toilette with care , and left the house . 
He paused , and took counsel with himself . 
I beg your pardon , Sir Thomas , observed Harry , politely falling on one side for the other stood directly in his path . 
Where are you going , sir ? asked the General . 
I am taking a little walk among the trees , replied the lad . 
The General struck the bandbox with his cane . 
You do not understand your position , said the General . 
You are my servant , and a servant of whom I have conceived the most serious suspicions . 
How do I know but that your box is full of teaspoons ? It contains a silk hat belonging to a friend , said Harry . 
Very well , replied General Vandeleur . 
Then I want to see your friend's silk hat . 
I have , he added grimly , a singular curiosity for hats and I believe you know me to be somewhat positive . 
I beg your pardon , Sir Thomas , I am exceedingly grieved , Harry apologised but indeed this is a private affair . 
The General caught him roughly by the shoulder with one hand , while he raised his cane in the most menacing manner with the other . 
Harry gave himself up for lost but at the same moment Heaven vouchsafed him an unexpected defender in the person of Charlie Pendragon , who now strode forward from behind the trees . 
Come , come , General , hold your hand , said he , this is neither courteous nor manly . 
How is that , Mr. Hartley ? interrogated the General . 
Mr. Pendragon is of my opinion , it appears . 
He too suspects that Lady Vandeleur has something to do with your friend's silk hat . 
Charlie saw that he had committed an unpardonable blunder , which he hastened to repair . 
How , sir ? he cried I suspect , do you say ? I suspect nothing . 
Only where I find strength abused and a man brutalising his inferiors , I take the liberty to interfere . 
As he said these words he made a sign to Harry , which the latter was too dull or too much troubled to understand . 
In what way am I to construe your attitude , sir ? demanded Vandeleur . 
Why , sir , as you please , returned Pendragon . 
This spectacle lent the secretary wings and he did not relax his pace until he had gained the Bayswater road , and plunged at random into an unfrequented by street . 
To see two gentlemen of his acquaintance thus brutally mauling each other was deeply shocking to Harry . 
Even his own situation in the General's household looked hardly so pleasing as usual in the light of these violent transactions . 
He had walked some little distance , busied with these meditations , before a slight collision with another passenger reminded him of the bandbox on his arm . 
Heavens ! cried he , where was my head ? and whither have I wandered ? Thereupon he consulted the envelope which Lady Vandeleur had given him . 
The address was there , but without a name . 
Harry was simply directed to ask for the gentleman who expected a parcel from Lady Vandeleur , and if he were not at home to await his return . 
The gentleman , added the note , should present a receipt in the handwriting of the lady herself . 
All this seemed mightily mysterious , and Harry was above all astonished at the omission of the name and the formality of the receipt . 
But her empire over his spirit was too complete , he dismissed his suspicions , and blamed himself roundly for having so much as entertained them . 
In one thing , however , his duty and interest , his generosity and his terrors , coincided to get rid of the bandbox with the greatest possible despatch . 
He accosted the first policeman and courteously inquired his way . 
The knocker and bell pull were highly polished flowering pot herbs garnished the sills of the different windows and curtains of some rich material concealed the interior from the eyes of curious passengers . 
A servant maid of some personal attractions immediately opened the door , and seemed to regard the secretary with no unkind eyes . 
This is the parcel from Lady Vandeleur , said Harry . 
I know , replied the maid , with a nod . 
But the gentleman is from home . 
Will you leave it with me ? I cannot , answered Harry . 
I am directed not to part with it but upon a certain condition , and I must ask you , I am afraid , to let me wait . 
Well , said she , I suppose I may let you wait . 
I am lonely enough , I can tell you , and you do not look as though you would eat a girl . 
But be sure and do not ask the gentleman's name , for that I am not to tell you . 
Do you say so ? cried Harry . 
Why , how strange ! But indeed for some time back I walk among surprises . 
And now a question for a question Do you know lady Vandeleur ? I am her private secretary , replied Harry with a glow of modest pride . 
She is pretty , is she not ? pursued the servant . 
I am only a secretary ! Do you mean that for me ? said the girl . 
Because I am only a housemaid , if you please . 
Oh , these mistresses ! she cried . 
In so doing he turned his face towards the lower end of the lane , and there , to his indescribable dismay , his eyes encountered those of General Vandeleur . 
Harry made but one bolt of it into the house , driving the maid before him and the door was slammed in his pursuer's countenance . 
Is there a bar ? Will it lock ? asked Harry , while a salvo on the knocker made the house echo from wall to wall . 
Why , what is wrong with you ? asked the maid . 
Is it this old gentleman ? If he gets hold of me , whispered Harry , I am as good as dead . 
He has been pursuing me all day , carries a sword stick , and is an Indian military officer . 
These are fine manners , cried the maid . 
And what , if you please , may be his name ? It is the General , my master , answered Harry . 
He is after this bandbox . 
Did not I tell you ? cried the maid in triumph . 
I told you I thought worse than nothing of your Lady Vandeleur and if you had an eye in your head you might see what she is for yourself . 
It is lucky , observed the girl , that I am alone in the house your General may hammer until he is weary , and there is none to open for him . 
The din at the door , so far from abating , continued to increase in volume , and at each blow the unhappy secretary was shaken to the heart . 
What is your name ? asked the girl . 
Harry Hartley , he replied . 
Mine , she went on , is Prudence . 
Do you like it ? Very much , said Harry . 
But hear for a moment how the General beats upon the door . 
Let your General knock , he will do no more than blister his hands . 
But , she added , checking him , for he had got upon his feet immediately on this welcome news , but I will not show where it is unless you kiss me . 
Will you , Harry ? That I will , he cried , remembering his gallantry , not for your back door , but because you are good and pretty . 
And he administered two or three cordial salutes , which were returned to him in kind . 
Then Prudence led him to the back gate , and put her hand upon the key . 
Will you come and see me ? she asked . 
I will indeed , said Harry . 
Do not I owe you my life ? And now , she added , opening the door , run as hard as you can , for I shall let in the General . 
Harry scarcely required this advice fear had him by the forelock and he addressed himself diligently to flight . 
A few steps , and he believed he would escape from his trials , and return to Lady Vandeleur in honour and safety . 
He should certainly have remembered the scene in Kensington Gardens he should certainly have concluded that , where the General was his enemy , Charlie Pendragon could be no other than a friend . 
But such was the fever and perturbation of his mind that he was struck by none of these considerations , and only continued to run the faster up the lane . 
Charlie , by the sound of his voice and the vile terms that he hurled after the secretary , was obviously beside himself with rage . 
Harry's hopes began once more to arise . 
Providence , weary of persecution , was now offering him an open field for his escape . 
He had hardly recognised the fact before he was some steps beyond upon the other side . 
His appearance gave a new idea to Charlie Pendragon , who , although he was now sadly out of breath , once more upraised his voice . 
Stop , thief ! he cried . 
And immediately the butcher's boy had taken up the cry and joined in the pursuit . 
This was a bitter moment for the hunted secretary . 
I must find a place of concealment , he thought , and that within the next few seconds , or all is over with me in this world . 
Scarcely had the thought crossed his mind than the lane took a sudden turning and he found himself hidden from his enemies . 
There are circumstances in which even the least energetic of mankind learn to behave with vigour and decision and the most cautious forget their prudence and embrace foolhardy resolutions . 
This was one of those occasions for Harry Hartley and those who knew him best would have been the most astonished at the lad's audacity . 
He came to himself a moment afterwards , seated in a border of small rosebushes . 
Facing him across the garden , which was in admirable order , and set with flowers of the most delicious perfume , he beheld the back of a house . 
It was of considerable extent , and plainly habitable but , in odd contrast to the grounds , it was crazy , ill kept , and of a mean appearance . 
On all other sides the circuit of the garden wall appeared unbroken . 
He took in these features of the scene with mechanical glances , but his mind was still unable to piece together or draw a rational conclusion from what he saw . 
And when he heard footsteps advancing on the gravel , although he turned his eyes in that direction , it was with no thought either for defence or flight . 
The new comer was a large , coarse , and very sordid personage , in gardening clothes , and with a watering pot in his left hand . 
One less confused would have been affected with some alarm at the sight of this man's huge proportions and black and lowering eyes . 
For a moment the two stared into each other's eyes , Harry fascinated , the man filled with wrath and a cruel , sneering humour . 
Who are you ? he demanded at last . 
But just at that moment Pendragon and the butcher's boy went clumping past , and the sound of their feet and their hoarse cries echoed loudly in the narrow lane . 
The gardener had received his answer and he looked down into Harry's face with an obnoxious smile . 
A thief ! he said . 
Upon my word , and a very good thing you must make of it for I see you dressed like a gentleman from top to toe . 
The most upright person , as I now perceive , can be led into suspicious positions . 
My little man , replied the gardener , I will go with you no farther than the station house in the next street . 
The inspector , no doubt , will be glad to take a stroll with you as far as Eaton Place , and have a bit of afternoon tea with your great acquaintances . 
When he spoke his voice was strangely altered . 
Pick up a heart , he said , you fool ! The worst of it is done . 
You could not travel two steps the figure of fun you look just now . 
While Harry mechanically adopted these suggestions , the gardener , getting upon his knees , hastily drew together the scattered jewels and returned them to the bandbox . 
At last , however , it was done and , concealing the bandbox in his smock , the gardener beckoned to Harry and preceded him in the direction of the house . 
The gardener was plainly annoyed by this encounter but he put as good a face upon it as he could , and accosted the clergyman with an obsequious and smiling air . 
I took the liberty to bring him in , for I thought none of the lodgers would object . 
Speaking for myself , replied the Reverend Mr. Rolles , I do not nor do I fancy any of the rest of us would be more difficult upon so small a matter . 
But , on second thoughts , he added , I believe that this gentleman and I have met before . 
Mr. Hartley , I think . 
I regret to observe that you have had a fall . 
And he offered his hand . 
A sort of maiden dignity and a desire to delay as long as possible the necessity for explanation moved Harry to refuse this chance of help , and to deny his own identity . 
He chose the tender mercies of the gardener , who was at least unknown to him , rather than the curiosity and perhaps the doubts of an acquaintance . 
I fear there is some mistake , said he . 
My name is Thomlinson and I am a friend of Mr. Raeburn's . 
Indeed ? said Mr. Rolles . 
Mr. Raeburn , who had been upon thorns throughout this colloquy , now felt it high time to bring it to a period . 
I wish you a pleasant saunter , sir , said he . 
And with that he dragged Harry after him into the house , and then into a chamber on the garden . 
His first care was to draw down the blind , for Mr. Rolles still remained where they had left him , in an attitude of perplexity and thought . 
For Harry , the sight of the man's face under the influence of this base emotion , added another pang to those he was already suffering . 
It seemed incredible that , from his life of pure and delicate trifling , he should be plunged in a breath among sordid and criminal relations . 
He felt he could lay his life down with gladness to escape from the room and the society of Mr. Raeburn . 
Do you see any objection , Mr. Hartley , may I ask ? I am not the man to stick upon a brooch . 
But , sir , cried Harry , what you propose to me is impossible . 
The jewels are not mine , and I cannot share what is another's , no matter with whom , nor in what proportions . 
They are not yours , are they not ? returned Raeburn . 
And you could not share them with anybody , couldn't you ? Well now , that is what I call a pity for here am I obliged to take you to the station . 
I cannot help it , wailed Harry . 
It is not my fault . 
You will not come with me to Eaton Place ? No , replied the man , I will not , that is certain . 
And I mean to divide these playthings with you here . 
And so saying he applied a sudden and severe torsion to the lad's wrist . 
Harry could not suppress a scream , and the perspiration burst forth upon his face . 
I agree , he said . 
There is a lamb , sneered the gardener . 
I thought you would recognise your interests at last . 
When this was finished , both proceeded to the front door , which Raeburn cautiously opened to observe the street . 
When Harry gathered himself up , half stunned and bleeding freely at the nose , Mr. Raeburn had entirely disappeared . 
For the first time , anger and pain so completely overcame the lad's spirits that he burst into a fit of tears and remained sobbing in the middle of the road . 
After he had thus somewhat assuaged his emotion , he began to look about him and read the names of the streets at whose intersection he had been deserted by the gardener . 
At the same time , a dirty rogue , who had been slouching somewhere in the neighbourhood , drew near him from the other side . 
He shall pay dearly for this day's work , I promise you . 
You had better come into the house and have yourself washed and brushed , continued the maid . 
My mistress will make you welcome , never fear . 
And see , I will pick up your hat . 
Harry thanked her from his heart , and being now in no humour for economy , made his way to the nearest cab stand and set off for Eaton Place by coach . 
He passed them with as good an air of dignity as he could assume , and made directly for the boudoir . 
Thank Heaven ! cried Lady Vandeleur , here he is ! The bandbox , Harry the bandbox ! But Harry stood before them silent and downcast . 
Speak ! Where is the bandbox ? And the men , with threatening gestures , repeated the demand . 
Harry drew a handful of jewels from his pocket . 
This is all that remains , said he . 
For your wages you may rank as a creditor in my late husband's bankruptcy . 
Harry had scarcely comprehended this insulting address before the General was down upon him with another . 
And in the meantime , said that personage , follow me before the nearest Inspector of Police . 
You may impose upon a simple minded soldier , sir , but the eye of the law will read your disreputable secret . 
With that , the General dragged Harry from the apartment , and hurried him downstairs and along the street to the police station of the district . 
ended this deplorable business of the bandbox . 
But to the unfortunate Secretary the whole affair was the beginning of a new and manlier life . 
Several persons interested themselves in one so unfortunate and soon after he inherited a sum of money from a maiden aunt in Worcestershire . 
With this he married Prudence , and set sail for Bendigo , or according to another account , for Trincomalee , exceedingly content , and will the best of prospects . 
STORY OF THE YOUNG MAN IN HOLY ORDERS The Reverend Mr. Simon Rolles had distinguished himself in the Moral Sciences , and was more than usually proficient in the study of Divinity . 
It was his habit every afternoon , after he had worked seven or eight hours on St . 
Chrysostom , to walk for a while in meditation among the roses . 
And this was usually one of the most productive moments of his day . 
I cannot be mistaken , thought he . 
That is Mr. Hartley beyond a doubt . 
The face of Mr. Raeburn appeared at a low window next the door and , as chance directed , his eyes met those of Mr. Rolles . 
The nurseryman seemed disconcerted , and even alarmed and immediately after the blind of the apartment was pulled sharply down . 
This may all be very well , reflected Mr. Rolles it may be all excellently well but I confess freely that I do not think so . 
Suspicious , underhand , untruthful , fearful of observation I believe upon my soul , he thought , the pair are plotting some disgraceful action . 
When he came to the scene of Harry's escalade , his eye was at once arrested by a broken rosebush and marks of trampling on the mould . 
He looked up , and saw scratches on the brick , and a rag of trouser floating from a broken bottle . 
Upon my word , he thought , the thing grows vastly interesting . 
And just then he caught sight of something almost entirely buried in the earth . 
In an instant he had disinterred a dainty morocco case , ornamented and clasped in gilt . 
It had been trodden heavily underfoot , and thus escaped the hurried search of Mr. Raeburn . 
The beauty of the stone flattered the young clergyman's eyes the thought of its incalculable value overpowered his intellect . 
And as he suddenly turned it , the rays leaped forth again with renewed brilliancy , and seemed to pierce his very heart . 
Decisive actions are often taken in a moment and without any conscious deliverance from the rational parts of man . 
So it was now with Mr. Rolles . 
The Reverend Simon Rolles had stolen the Rajah's Diamond . 
Early in the afternoon the police arrived with Harry Hartley . 
The nurseryman , who was beside himself with terror , readily discovered his hoard and the jewels were identified and inventoried in the presence of the Secretary . 
Still , he added , I suppose your business is nearly at an end . 
It must be worth a fortune , observed Mr. Rolles . 
Ten fortunes twenty fortunes , cried the officer . 
The more it is worth , remarked Simon shrewdly , the more difficult it must be to sell . 
Such a thing has a physiognomy not to be disguised , and I should fancy a man might as easily negotiate St . 
Thank you , said the clergyman . 
You cannot imagine how much your conversation interests me . 
Whereupon the functionary admitted that they knew many strange things in his profession , and immediately after took his leave . 
Mr. Rolles regained his apartment . 
It seemed smaller and barer than usual the materials for his great work had never presented so little interest and he looked upon his library with the eye of scorn . 
He took down , volume by volume , several Fathers of the Church , and glanced them through but they contained nothing to his purpose . 
These old gentlemen , thought he , are no doubt very valuable writers , but they seem to me conspicuously ignorant of life . 
Here am I , with learning enough to be a Bishop , and I positively do not know how to dispose of a stolen diamond . 
I glean a hint from a common policeman , and , with all my folios , I cannot so much as put it into execution . 
This inspires me with very low ideas of University training . 
Herewith he kicked over his book shelf and , putting on his hat , hastened from the house to the club of which he was a member . 
In such a place of mundane resort he hoped to find some man of good counsel and a shrewd experience in life . 
None of these , thought Mr. Rolles , would know more on dangerous topics than he knew himself none of them were fit to give him guidance in his present strait . 
At length in the smoking room , up many weary stairs , he hit upon a gentleman of somewhat portly build and dressed with conspicuous plainness . 
The more the young clergyman scrutinised his features , the more he was convinced that he had fallen on one capable of giving pertinent advice . 
Sir , said he , you will excuse my abruptness but I judge you from your appearance to be pre eminently a man of the world . 
I have indeed considerable claims to that distinction , replied the stranger , laying aside his magazine with a look of mingled amusement and surprise . 
I , sir , continued the Curate , am a recluse , a student , a creature of ink bottles and patristic folios . 
A recent event has brought my folly vividly before my eyes , and I desire to instruct myself in life . 
By life , he added , I do not mean Thackeray's novels but the crimes and secret possibilities of our society , and the principles of wise conduct among exceptional events . 
I am a patient reader can the thing be learnt in books ? You put me in a difficulty , said the stranger . 
Upon the less apparent provinces of life I fear you will find nothing truthful . 
Yet stay , he added , have you read Gaboriau ? Mr. Rolles admitted he had never even heard the name . 
You may gather some notions from Gaboriau , resumed the stranger . 
He is at least suggestive and as he is an author much studied by Prince Bismarck , you will , at the worst , lose your time in good society . 
Sir , said the Curate , I am infinitely obliged by your politeness . 
You have already more than repaid me , returned the other . 
By the novelty of your request , replied the gentleman and with a polite gesture , as though to ask permission , he resumed the study of the FORTNIGHTLY REVIEW . 
On his way home Mr. Rolles purchased a work on precious stones and several of Gaboriau's novels . 
These last he eagerly skimmed until an advanced hour in the morning but although they introduced him to many new ideas , he could nowhere discover what to do with a stolen diamond . 
For the character and attainments of Lecoq , however , he was unable to contain his admiration . 
He was truly a great creature , ruminated Mr. Rolles . 
He knew the world as I know Paley's Evidences . 
There was nothing that he could not carry to a termination with his own hand , and against the largest odds . 
That done , he might return to pursue his researches at leisure , a wealthy and luxurious student , envied and respected by all . 
Golden visions attended him through his slumber , and he awoke refreshed and light hearted with the morning sun . 
Mr. Raeburn's house was on that day to be closed by the police , and this afforded a pretext for his departure . 
He cheerfully prepared his baggage , transported it to King's Cross , where he left it in the cloak room , and returned to the club to while away the afternoon and dine . 
If you dine here to day , Rolles , observed an acquaintance , you may see two of the most remarkable men in England Prince Florizel of Bohemia , and old Jack Vandeleur . 
I have heard of the Prince , replied Mr. Rolles and General Vandeleur I have even met in society . 
General Vandeleur is an ass ! returned the other . 
This is his brother John , the biggest adventurer , the best judge of precious stones , and one of the most acute diplomatists in Europe . 
Run downstairs , he continued , take a table near them , and keep your ears open . 
You will hear some strange talk , or I am much misled . 
But how shall I know them ? inquired the clergyman . 
It was as his friend had asserted it was impossible to mistake the pair in question . 
Old John Vandeleur was of a remarkable force of body , and obviously broken to the most difficult exercises . 
In his companion , the Prince of Bohemia , Mr. Rolles was astonished to recognise the gentleman who had recommended him the study of Gaboriau . 
The conversation was , indeed , new to the student's ears . 
The manner of each aptly fitted with his part in the discourse . 
The Dictator indulged in brutalities alike of speech and gesture his hand opened and shut and fell roughly on the table and his voice was loud and heavy . 
At length the talk wandered on to the late robberies and the Rajah's Diamond . 
That diamond would be better in the sea , observed Prince Florizel . 
As a Vandeleur , replied the Dictator , your Highness may imagine my dissent . 
I speak on grounds of public policy , pursued the Prince . 
Jewels so valuable should be reserved for the collection of a Prince or the treasury of a great nation . 
There is no honesty too robust for such a trial . 
I myself , who have many duties and many privileges of my own I myself , Mr. Vandeleur , could scarce handle the intoxicating crystal and be safe . 
It is true , replied Vandeleur . 
It has beauty and worth it alone can properly reward the ardours of the chase . 
I am not so sure , returned the Dictator , with a laugh . 
One of the Vandeleurs will . 
Thomas or John Peter or Paul we are all apostles . 
I did not catch your observation , said the Prince with some disgust . 
And at the same moment the waiter informed Mr. Vandeleur that his cab was at the door . 
You will be very comfortable , said the guard there is no one in your compartment , and only one old gentleman in the other end . 
The sleeping carriages on the Great Northern line were divided into three compartments one at each end for travellers , and one in the centre fitted with the conveniences of a lavatory . 
A door running in grooves separated each of the others from the lavatory but as there were neither bolts nor locks , the whole suite was practically common ground . 
When Mr. Rolles had studied his position , he perceived himself without defence . 
This situation caused him some agony of mind . 
He recalled with alarm the boastful statements of his fellow traveller across the dining table , and the professions of immorality which he had heard him offering to the disgusted Prince . 
In the meantime he neglected no precaution , concealed his diamond in the most internal pocket of a system of great coats , and devoutly recommended himself to the care of Providence . 
The train pursued its usual even and rapid course and nearly half the journey had been accomplished before slumber began to triumph over uneasiness in the breast of Mr. Rolles . 
His last thought was of his terrifying neighbour . 
When he awoke it was still pitch dark , except for the flicker of the veiled lamp and the continual roaring and oscillation testified to the unrelaxed velocity of the train . 
It burned , it was too large , it bruised his ribs and there were infinitesimal fractions of a second in which he had half a mind to throw it from the window . 
While he was thus lying , a strange incident took place . 
The sliding door into the lavatory stirred a little , and then a little more , and was finally drawn back for the space of about twenty inches . 
The lamp in the lavatory was unshaded , and in the lighted aperture thus disclosed , Mr. Rolles could see the head of Mr. Vandeleur in an attitude of deep attention . 
After about a moment , the head was withdrawn and the door of the lavatory replaced . 
He had come , it would seem , to make sure that his only fellow traveller was asleep and , when satisfied on that point , he had at once withdrawn . 
The clergyman leaped to his feet . 
The extreme of terror had given place to a reaction of foolhardy daring . 
He reflected that the rattle of the flying train concealed all other sounds , and determined , come what might , to return the visit he had just received . 
Divesting himself of his cloak , which might have interfered with the freedom of his action , he entered the lavatory and paused to listen . 
Then he stopped , and could not contain an ejaculation of surprise . 
It is certain , at least , that he did not raise his head , but continued without interruption to pursue his strange employment . 
He stood riveted to the spot , following this unusual business with his eyes . 
The diamonds were , for the most part , small , and not easily distinguishable either in shape or fire . 
The tiara was a ray of light to Mr. Rolles he immediately recognised it for a part of the treasure stolen from Harry Hartley by the loiterer . 
Mr. Rolles was hugely relieved . 
The Dictator was as deeply in the affair as he was neither could tell tales upon the other . 
By an instinctive movement he had covered the hat box with the coat . 
For half a minute the two men stared upon each other in silence . 
I beg your pardon , said he . 
The Dictator shivered slightly , and when he spoke his voice was hoarse . 
What do you want here ? he asked . 
I take a particular interest in diamonds , replied Mr. Rolles , with an air of perfect self possession . 
Two connoisseurs should be acquainted . 
I have here a trifle of my own which may perhaps serve for an introduction . 
And so saying , he quietly took the case from his pocket , showed the Rajah's Diamond to the Dictator for an instant , and replaced it in security . 
It was once your brother's , he added . 
John Vandeleur continued to regard him with a look of almost painful amazement but he neither spoke nor moved . 
I was pleased to observe , resumed the young man , that we have gems from the same collection . 
The Dictator's surprise overpowered him . 
I beg your pardon , he said I begin to perceive that I am growing old ! I am positively not prepared for little incidents like this . 
But set my mind at rest upon one point do my eyes deceive me , or are you indeed a parson ? I am in holy orders , answered Mr. Rolles . 
Well , cried the other , as long as I live I will never hear another word against the cloth ! You flatter me , said Mr. Rolles . 
Pardon me , replied Vandeleur pardon me , young man . 
You are no coward , but it still remains to be seen whether you are not the worst of fools . 
Perhaps , he continued , leaning back upon his seat , perhaps you would oblige me with a few particulars . 
I must suppose you had some object in the stupefying impudence of your proceedings , and I confess I have a curiosity to know it . 
It is very simple , replied the clergyman it proceeds from my great inexperience of life . 
I shall be glad to be persuaded , answered Vandeleur . 
To one of your special knowledge and obviously great experience the negotiation of the diamond would give but little trouble , while to me it was a matter of impossibility . 
The subject was a delicate one to broach and perhaps I fell short in delicacy . 
But I must ask you to remember that for me the situation was a new one , and I was entirely unacquainted with the etiquette in use . 
I do not wish to flatter you , replied Vandeleur but upon my word , you have an unusual disposition for a life of crime . 
You have more accomplishments than you imagine and though I have encountered a number of rogues in different quarters of the world , I never met with one so unblushing as yourself . 
Cheer up , Mr. Rolles , you are in the right profession at last ! As for helping you , you may command me as you will . 
I have only a day's business in Edinburgh on a little matter for my brother and once that is concluded , I return to Paris , where I usually reside . 
If you please , you may accompany me thither . 
And before the end of a month I believe I shall have brought your little business to a satisfactory conclusion . 
Francis , who was of a docile and affectionate disposition , profited by these advantages with zeal , and devoted himself heart and soul to his employment . 
Few young men were more contented , few more willing and laborious than Francis Scrymgeour . 
Sometimes at night , when he had read the daily paper , he would play upon the flute to amuse his father , for whose qualities he entertained a great respect . 
One day he received a note from a well known firm of Writers to the Signet , requesting the favour of an immediate interview with him . 
The capital was to be placed under the control of the lawyer's firm and two trustees who must also remain anonymous . 
The conditions , said the Writer to the Signet , are , as I have twice remarked , neither dishonourable nor excessive . 
At the same time I cannot conceal from you that they are most unusual . 
Francis entreated him to be more specific . 
You cannot picture my uneasiness as to these conditions , he said . 
They are two , replied the lawyer , only two and the sum , as you will remember , is five hundred a year and unburdened , I forgot to add , unburdened . 
And the lawyer raised his eyebrows at him with solemn gusto . 
The first , he resumed , is of remarkable simplicity . 
You are requested to sit out the whole performance in the seat provided , and that is all . 
I should certainly have preferred a week day , replied Francis . 
But , after all , once in a way And in Paris , my dear sir , added the lawyer soothingly . 
I believe I am something of a precisian myself , but upon such a consideration , and in Paris , I should not hesitate an instant . 
And the pair laughed pleasantly together . 
The other is of more importance , continued the Writer to the Signet . 
My client , taking a deep interest in your welfare , desires to advise you absolutely in the choice of a wife . 
Absolutely , you understand , he repeated . 
Let us be more explicit , if you please , returned Francis . 
Sir , said Francis , it remains to be seen whether this whole affair is not a most unworthy fraud . 
I appeal to you in this difficulty for information . 
I must learn what is at the bottom of it all . 
If you do not know , cannot guess , or are not at liberty to tell me , I shall take my hat and go back to my bank as came . 
I do not know , answered the lawyer , but I have an excellent guess . 
Your father , and no one else , is at the root of this apparently unnatural business . 
My father ! cried Francis , in extreme disdain . 
Worthy man , I know every thought of his mind , every penny of his fortune ! You misinterpret my words , said the lawyer . 
I do not refer to Mr. Scrymgeour , senior for he is not your father . 
When he and his wife came to Edinburgh , you were already nearly one year old , and you had not yet been three months in their care . 
The secret has been well kept but such is the fact . 
Your father is unknown , and I say again that I believe him to be the original of the offers I am charged at present to transmit to you . 
It would be impossible to exaggerate the astonishment of Francis Scrymgeour at this unexpected information . 
He pled this confusion to the lawyer . 
Sir , said he , after a piece of news so startling , you must grant me some hours for thought . 
You shall know this evening what conclusion I have reached . 
A pleasant sense of his own importance rendered him the more deliberate but the issue was from the first not doubtful . 
He said but a word to the lawyer , and immediately received a cheque for two quarters' arrears for the allowance was ante dated from the first of January . 
With this in his pocket , he walked home . 
The next day , he determined , should see him on his way to Paris . 
He had his whole toilette fashionably renewed and was shaved and had his hair dressed every morning by a barber in a neighbouring street . 
This gave him something of a foreign air , and seemed to wipe off the reproach of his past years . 
At length , on the Saturday afternoon , he betook himself to the box office of the theatre in the Rue Richelieu . 
No sooner had he mentioned his name than the clerk produced the order in an envelope of which the address was scarcely dry . 
It has been taken this moment , said the clerk . 
May I ask what the gentleman was like ? Your friend is easy to describe , replied the official . 
He is old and strong and beautiful , with white hair and a sabre cut across his face . 
You cannot fail to recognise so marked a person . 
No , indeed , returned Francis and I thank you for your politeness . 
He cannot yet be far distant , added the clerk . 
If you make haste you might still overtake him . 
Francis did not wait to be twice told he ran precipitately from the theatre into the middle of the street and looked in all directions . 
More than one white haired man was within sight but though he overtook each of them in succession , all wanted the sabre cut . 
For on the outer boulevard he saw two men in earnest colloquy upon a seat . 
One was dark , young , and handsome , secularly dressed , but with an indelible clerical stamp the other answered in every particular to the description given him by the clerk . 
As Francis had expected , the conversation was conducted in the English language Your suspicions begin to annoy me , Rolles , said the older man . 
I tell you I am doing my utmost a man cannot lay his hand on millions in a moment . 
Advances , if you choose and interest instead of goodwill , if you prefer it , returned Vandeleur angrily . 
I am not here to pick expressions . 
Business is business and your business , let me remind you , is too muddy for such airs . 
Trust me , or leave me alone and find some one else but let us have an end , for God's sake , of your jeremiads . 
I am beginning to learn the world , replied the other , and I see that you have every reason to play me false , and not one to deal honestly . 
I am not here to pick expressions either you wish the diamond for yourself you know you do you dare not deny it . 
I tell you , it must stop push me much further and I promise you a surprise . 
It does not become you to use threats , returned Vandeleur . 
Two can play at that . 
But mine shall be once and for all . 
Tuesday , at seven not a day , not an hour sooner , not the least part of a second , if it were to save your life . 
And if you do not choose to wait , you may go to the bottomless pit for me , and welcome . 
His house stood high up in the Rue Lepic , commanding a view of all Paris and enjoying the pure air of the heights . 
It was two storeys high , with green blinds and shutters and all the windows looking on the street were hermetically closed . 
Tops of trees showed over the high garden wall , and the wall was protected by CHEVAUX DE FRISE . 
The Dictator paused a moment while he searched his pocket for a key and then , opening a gate , disappeared within the enclosure . 
Francis looked about him the neighbourhood was very lonely , the house isolated in its garden . 
It seemed as if his observation must here come to an abrupt end . 
A second glance , however , showed him a tall house next door presenting a gable to the garden , and in this gable a single window . 
Francis did not hesitate a moment he took the room , paid an advance upon the rent , and returned to his hotel to seek his baggage . 
From the window of his new apartment Francis Scrymgeour commanded a complete view into the garden of the house with the green blinds . 
Immediately below him a very comely chestnut with wide boughs sheltered a pair of rustic tables where people might dine in the height of summer . 
The garden was conventual , the house had the air of a prison . 
A modest curl of smoke from a single chimney alone testified to the presence of living people . 
From time to time he would rise and cast a glance into the enclosure of the house with the green blinds but the windows remained obstinately closed and the garden empty . 
Only late in the evening did anything occur to reward his continued attention . 
The cigar was already almost at an end , when the voice of a young girl was heard suddenly crying the hour from the interior of the house . 
In a moment , replied John Vandeleur . 
And , with that , he threw away the stump and , taking up the lantern , sailed away under the verandah for the night . 
, he saw cause to adopt a different explanation . 
At the end of that time Mr. Vandeleur , with his own hand , once more closed the shutters and replaced the blinds from within . 
While Francis was still marvelling at these precautions , the door opened and a young girl came forth to look about her in the garden . 
It was not two minutes before she re entered the house , but even in that short time he saw enough to convince him that she possessed the most unusual attractions . 
His curiosity was not only highly excited by this incident , but his spirits were improved to a still more notable degree . 
The porter , whom he consulted , could afford him little information but , such as it was , it had a mysterious and questionable sound . 
The person next door was an English gentleman of extraordinary wealth , and proportionately eccentric in his tastes and habits . 
Certainly , replied the porter . 
Mademoiselle is the daughter of the house and strange it is to see how she is made to work . 
For all his riches , it is she who goes to market and every day in the week you may see her going by with a basket on her arm . 
And the collections ? asked the other . 
Sir , said the man , they are immensely valuable . 
More I cannot tell you . 
Since M. de Vandeleur's arrival no one in the quarter has so much as passed the door . 
Suppose not , returned Francis , you must surely have some notion what these famous galleries contain . 
How should I know ? The house is kept like a garrison , as you perceive . 
And then as Francis was returning disappointed to his room , the porter called him back . 
I have just remembered , sir , said he . 
M. de Vandeleur has been in all parts of the world , and I once heard the old woman declare that he had brought many diamonds back with him . 
If that be the truth , there must be a fine show behind those shutters . 
By an early hour on Sunday Francis was in his place at the theatre . 
The seat which had been taken for him was only two or three numbers from the left hand side , and directly opposite one of the lower boxes . 
Francis could hardly control his emotion . 
It was Mr. Vandeleur and his daughter . 
The blood came and went in his arteries and veins with stunning activity his ears sang his head turned . 
From time to time he risked a momentary look in the direction which principally interested him and once at least he felt certain that his eyes encountered those of the young girl . 
A shock passed over his body , and he saw all the colours of the rainbow . 
At last the act came to an end . 
The curtain fell , and the people around him began to leave their places , for the interval . 
Summoning all his courage , but keeping his eyes lowered , Francis drew near the spot . 
His progress was slow , for the old gentleman before him moved with incredible deliberation , wheezing as he went . 
By this time he had arrived directly opposite the box and although he was still undetermined what to do or whether to do anything , he turned his head and lifted his eyes . 
No sooner had he done so than he uttered a cry of disappointment and remained rooted to the spot . 
During his slow advance Mr. Vandeleur and his daughter had quietly slipped away . 
Once in the street , the pressure ceasing , he came to a halt , and the cool night air speedily restored him to the possession of his faculties . 
He was surprised to find that his head ached violently , and that he remembered not one word of the two acts which he had witnessed . 
Next morning he lay in wait for Miss Vandeleur on her road to market , and by eight o'clock beheld her stepping down a lane . 
She was simply , and even poorly , attired but in the carriage of her head and body there was something flexible and noble that would have lent distinction to the meanest toilette . 
Even her basket , so aptly did she carry it , became her like an ornament . 
He suffered her to pass the doorway , and then , coming forth once more , addressed her by name from behind . 
Miss Vandeleur , said he . 
She turned and , when she saw who he was , became deadly pale . 
And , believe me , I am acting rather from necessity than choice . 
We have many things in common , and I am sadly in the dark . 
There is much that I should be doing , and my hands are tied . 
I do not know even what to feel , nor who are my friends and enemies . 
She found her voice with an effort . 
I do not know who you are , she said . 
Ah , yes ! Miss Vandeleur , you do , returned Francis better than I do myself . 
Indeed , it is on that , above all , that I seek light . 
Tell me what you know , he pleaded . 
Tell me who I am , who you are , and how our destinies are intermixed . 
I will not attempt to deceive you , she replied . 
I know who you are , but I am not at liberty to say . 
Tell me , at least , that you have forgiven my presumption , and I shall wait with all the patience I have , he said . 
If I am not to know , I must do without . 
It is cruel , but I can bear more upon a push . 
Only do not add to my troubles the thought that I have made an enemy of you . 
You did only what was natural , she said , and I have nothing to forgive you . 
Is it to be FAREWELL ? he asked . 
Nay , that I do not know myself , she answered . 
Farewell for the present , if you like . 
And with these words she was gone . 
Francis returned to his lodging in a state of considerable commotion of mind . 
He made the most trifling progress with his Euclid for that forenoon , and was more often at the window than at his improvised writing table . 
The young man hastily allayed his appetite in a neighbouring restaurant , and returned with the speed of unallayed curiosity to the house in the Rue Lepic . 
He is a great man , a general , in your country and you doubtless know him well by reputation . 
I confess , returned Francis , that I have never heard of General Vandeleur before . 
We have many officers of that grade , and my pursuits have been exclusively civil . 
It is he , replied the porter , who lost the great diamond of the Indies . 
Of that at least you must have read often in the papers . 
As soon as Francis could disengage himself from the porter he ran upstairs and hurried to the window . 
Immediately below the clear space in the chestnut leaves , the two gentlemen were seated in conversation over a cigar . 
They spoke in tones so low , leaning over the table with every appearance of interest , that Francis could catch no more than a word or two on an occasion . 
At length the General , as if in a hot anger , broke forth into several violent exclamations . 
Francis Vandeleur ! he cried , accentuating the last word . 
Francis Vandeleur , I tell you . 
The Dictator made a movement of his whole body , half affirmative , half contemptuous , but his answer was inaudible to the young man . 
Was he the Francis Vandeleur in question ? he wondered . 
My wife ? he cried . 
I have done with my wife for good . 
I will not hear her name . 
I am sick of her very name . 
And he swore aloud and beat the table with his fist . 
The Dictator appeared , by his gestures , to pacify him after a paternal fashion and a little after he conducted him to the garden gate . 
So another day had passed , and little more learnt . 
As the hour of the dinner drew near many preparations were made in the garden of the house with the green blinds . 
Mr. Rolles arrived , punctual to the minute he looked like a man upon his guard , and spoke low and sparingly . 
At length Miss Vandeleur made her appearance , carrying the soup tureen . 
One is more at one's ease , Mr. Vandeleur was heard to declare . 
Next moment they were all three in their places , and Francis could see as little as he could hear of what passed . 
The party lingered over one dish after another , and then over a delicate dessert , with a bottle of old wine carefully uncorked by the hand of the Dictator himself . 
As it began to grow dark a lamp was set upon the table and a couple of candles on the sideboard for the night was perfectly pure , starry , and windless . 
Light overflowed besides from the door and window in the verandah , so that the garden was fairly illuminated and the leaves twinkled in the darkness . 
For perhaps the tenth time Miss Vandeleur entered the house and on this occasion she returned with the coffee tray , which she placed upon the sideboard . 
At the same moment her father rose from his seat . 
The coffee is my province , Francis heard him say . 
And next moment he saw his supposed father standing by the sideboard in the light of the candles . 
The thing was so swiftly done that even Francis , who looked straight into his face , had hardly time to perceive the movement before it was completed . 
And next instant , and still laughing , Mr. Vandeleur had turned again towards the table with a cup in either hand . 
Ere we have done with this , said he , we may expect our famous Hebrew . 
It would be impossible to depict the confusion and distress of Francis Scrymgeour . 
He saw foul play going forward before his eyes , and he felt bound to interfere , but knew not how . 
He seemed to perceive the conversation die away and grow less and less in vivacity and volume but still no sign of any alarming or even notable event . 
Suddenly the ring of a glass breaking was followed by a faint and dull sound , as of a person who should have fallen forward with his head upon the table . 
At the same moment a piercing scream rose from the garden . 
What have you done ? cried Miss Vandeleur . 
He is dead ! The Dictator replied in a violent whisper , so strong and sibilant that every word was audible to the watcher at the window . 
Silence ! said Mr. Vandeleur the man is as well as I am . 
Take him by the heels whilst I carry him by the shoulders . 
Francis heard Miss Vandeleur break forth into a passion of tears . 
Do you hear what I say ? resumed the Dictator , in the same tones . 
Or do you wish to quarrel with me ? I give you your choice , Miss Vandeleur . 
There was another pause , and the Dictator spoke again . 
Take that man by the heels , he said . 
I must have him brought into the house . 
If I were a little younger , I could help myself against the world . 
But now that years and dangers are upon me and my hands are weakened , I must turn to you for aid . 
It is a crime , replied the girl . 
I am your father , said Mr. Vandeleur . 
This appeal seemed to produce its effect . 
The young clergyman was limp and pallid , and his head rolled upon his shoulders at every step . 
Was he alive or dead ? Francis , in spite of the Dictator's declaration , inclined to the latter view . 
A great crime had been committed a great calamity had fallen upon the inhabitants of the house with the green blinds . 
To his surprise , Francis found all horror for the deed swallowed up in sorrow for a girl and an old man whom he judged to be in the height of peril . 
A cry of alarm from the house warned him that his entrance had not been effected unobserved . 
He recovered himself with a stagger , and in three bounds crossed the intervening space and stood before the door in the verandah . 
In a small apartment , carpeted with matting and surrounded by glazed cabinets full of rare and costly curios , Mr. Vandeleur was stooping over the body of Mr. Rolles . 
He raised himself as Francis entered , and there was an instantaneous passage of hands . 
All this was over while Francis had still one foot upon the threshold , and the other raised in air . 
The next instant he was on his knees to Mr. Vandeleur . 
Let me too help you . 
I will do what you wish and ask no questions I will obey you with my life treat me as a son , and you will find I have a son's devotion . 
A deplorable explosion of oaths was the Dictator's first reply . 
Son and father ? he cried . 
Then a light seemed to break upon Mr. Vandeleur , and he laughed aloud I see , cried he . 
Very well , Mr. Scrymgeour . 
Let me tell you in a few words how you stand . 
You are no son of mine . 
You are my brother's bastard by a fishwife , if you want to know . 
I regard you with an indifference closely bordering on aversion and from what I now see of your conduct , I judge your mind to be exactly suitable to your exterior . 
I recommend you these mortifying reflections for your leisure and , in the meantime , let me beseech you to rid us of your presence . 
If I were not occupied , added the Dictator , with a terrifying oath , I should give you the unholiest drubbing ere you went ! Francis listened in profound humiliation . 
It was Miss Vandeleur who broke the silence . 
Father , she said , you speak in anger . 
Mr. Scrymgeour may have been mistaken , but he meant well and kindly . 
Thank you for speaking , returned the Dictator . 
You remind me of some other observations which I hold it a point of honour to make to Mr. Scrymgeour . 
You were exhibited to her two nights ago and I rejoice to tell you that she rejected the idea with disgust . 
But Miss Vandeleur once again interfered in his behalf . 
Mr. Scrymgeour , she said , speaking in clear and even tones , you must not be concerned at my father's harsh expressions . 
I felt no disgust for you on the contrary , I asked an opportunity to make your better acquaintance . 
As for what has passed to night , believe me it has filled my mind with both pity and esteem . 
Just then Mr. Rolles made a convulsive movement with his arm , which convinced Francis that he was only drugged , and was beginning to throw off the influence of the opiate . 
Mr. Vandeleur stooped over him and examined his face for an instant . 
Come , come ! cried he , raising his head . 
Let there be an end of this . 
And since you are so pleased with his conduct , Miss Vandeleur , take a candle and show the bastard out . 
The young lady hastened to obey . 
Thank you , said Francis , as soon as he was alone with her in the garden . 
I thank you from my soul . 
This has been the bitterest evening of my life , but it will have always one pleasant recollection . 
I spoke as I felt , she replied , and in justice to you . 
It made my heart sorry that you should be so unkindly used . 
By this time they had reached the garden gate and Miss Vandeleur , having set the candle on the ground , was already unfastening the bolts . 
One word more , said Francis . 
This is not for the last time I shall see you again , shall I not ? Alas ! she answered . 
You have heard my father . 
Indeed , replied she , I have none . 
You seem to me both brave and honest . 
Then , said Francis , give me a keepsake . 
She paused for a moment , with her hand upon the key for the various bars and bolts were all undone , and there was nothing left but to open the lock . 
If I agree , she said , will you promise to do as I tell you from point to point ? Can you ask ? replied Francis . 
I would do so willingly on your bare word . 
She turned the key and threw open the door . 
Be it so , said she . 
You do not know what you ask , but be it so . 
You are in a greater danger than you fancy . 
Promise me you will not so much as look at my keepsake until you are in a place of safety . 
I promise , replied Francis . 
Now , run ! she cried . 
He heard the door close behind him , and the noise of the bolts being replaced . 
My faith , said he , since I have promised ! And he took to his heels down the lane that leads into the Rue Ravignan . 
He was not fifty paces from the house with the green blinds when the most diabolical outcry suddenly arose out of the stillness of the night . 
Mechanically he stood still another passenger followed his example in the neighbouring floors he saw people crowding to the windows a conflagration could not have produced more disturbance in this empty quarter . 
That was a close shave , thought Francis to himself . 
And to disagreeable interviews he felt he had already served his apprenticeship that evening nor could he suppose that Miss Vandeleur had left anything unsaid . 
The thought of his bruises reminded him that he had not only come without a hat , but that his clothes had considerably suffered in his descent through the chestnut . 
At the first magazine he purchased a cheap wideawake , and had the disorder of his toilet summarily repaired . 
The keepsake , still rolled in the handkerchief , he thrust in the meanwhile into his trousers pocket . 
The Dictator , having found no trace of his quarry , was returning by the other way . 
Francis was a stalwart young fellow but he was no match for his adversary whether in strength or skill and after a few ineffectual struggles he resigned himself entirely to his captor . 
What do you want with me ? said he . 
We will talk of that at home , returned the Dictator grimly . 
And he continued to march the young man up hill in the direction of the house with the green blinds . 
But Francis , although he no longer struggled , was only waiting an opportunity to make a bold push for freedom . 
With a sudden jerk he left the collar of his coat in the hands of Mr. Vandeleur , and once more made off at his best speed in the direction of the Boulevards . 
The tables were now turned . 
If the Dictator was the stronger , Francis , in the top of his youth , was the more fleet of foot , and he had soon effected his escape among the crowds . 
This , at least , thought he , should satisfy Miss Vandeleur . 
And turning to his right along the Boulevards , he entered the Cafe Americain and ordered some beer . 
It was both late and early for the majority of the frequenters of the establishment . 
He drew the handkerchief from his pocket . 
Looking up , he beheld a man , still young , of an urbane and tranquil presence , and dressed with rich simplicity . 
This personage had risen from a neighbouring table , and , bringing his glass with him , had taken a seat beside Francis . 
Close the casket , repeated the stranger , and put it quietly back into your pocket , where I feel persuaded it should never have been . 
Try , if you please , to throw off your bewildered air , and act as though I were one of your acquaintances whom you had met by chance . 
So ! Touch glasses with me . 
I fear , sir , you must be an amateur . 
And the stranger pronounced these last words with a smile of peculiar meaning , leaned back in his seat and enjoyed a deep inhalation of tobacco . 
But I have the first hand , and you must begin by telling me how the Rajah's Diamond is in your possession . 
The Rajah's Diamond ! echoed Francis . 
I would not speak so loud , if I were you , returned the other . 
But most certainly you have the Rajah's Diamond in your pocket . 
I have seen and handled it a score of times in Sir Thomas Vandeleur's collection . 
Sir Thomas Vandeleur ! The General ! My father ! cried Francis . 
Your father ? repeated the stranger . 
I was not aware the General had any family . 
I am illegitimate , sir , replied Francis , with a flush . 
The other bowed with gravity . 
It was a respectful bow , as of a man silently apologising to his equal and Francis felt relieved and comforted , he scarce knew why . 
I perceive , said the stranger , that your adventures have not all been peaceful . 
I must differ from you ! returned Francis hotly . 
I possess no stolen property . 
And if you refer to the diamond , it was given to me not an hour ago by Miss Vandeleur in the Rue Lepic . 
By Miss Vandeleur of the Rue Lepic ! repeated the other . 
You interest me more than you suppose . 
His memory had made a sudden bound . 
He had seen Mr. Vandeleur take an article from the breast of his drugged visitor , and that article , he was now persuaded , was a morocco case . 
You have a light ? inquired the stranger . 
And he briefly recounted his experiences since the day when he was summoned from the bank by his lawyer . 
Yours is indeed a remarkable history , said the stranger , after the young man had made an end of his narrative and your position is full of difficulty and peril . 
Many would counsel you to seek out your father , and give the diamond to him but I have other views . 
The waiter withdrew , and returned in a moment with manager , who bowed with obsequious respect . 
What , said he , can I do to serve you ? Have the goodness , replied the stranger , indicating Francis , to tell this gentleman my name . 
You have the honour , sir , said the functionary , addressing young Scrymgeour , to occupy the same table with His Highness Prince Florizel of Bohemia . 
Francis rose with precipitation , and made a grateful reverence to the Prince , who bade him resume his seat . 
I thank you , said Florizel , once more addressing the functionary I am sorry to have deranged you for so small a matter . 
And he dismissed him with a movement of his hand . 
And now , added the Prince , turning to Francis , give me the diamond . 
Without a word the casket was handed over . 
You have done right , said Florizel , your sentiments have properly inspired you , and you will live to be grateful for the misfortunes of to night . 
A man , Mr. Scrymgeour , may fall into a thousand perplexities , but if his heart be upright and his intelligence unclouded , he will issue from them all without dishonour . 
Let your mind be at rest your affairs are in my hand and with the aid of heaven I am strong enough to bring them to a good end . 
Follow me , if you please , to my carriage . 
You will find there a pleasant garden , a library of good authors , a cook , a cellar , and some good cigars , which I recommend to your attention . 
Francis uttered some broken phrases of gratitude . 
It will be time enough to thank me , said the Prince , when you are acknowledged by your father and married to Miss Vandeleur . 
And with that the Prince turned away and strolled leisurely in the direction of Montmartre . 
It was opened with singular precautions by the Dictator in person . 
Who are you ? he demanded . 
You must pardon me this late visit , Mr. Vandeleur , replied the Prince . 
Your Highness is always welcome , returned Mr. Vandeleur , stepping back . 
The Prince profited by the open space , and without waiting for his host walked right into the house and opened the door of the SALON . 
Good evening , Miss Vandeleur , said Florizel you look fatigued . 
Mr. Rolles , I believe ? I hope you have profited by the study of Gaboriau , Mr. Rolles . 
But the young clergyman's temper was too much embittered for speech and he contented himself with bowing stiffly , and continued to gnaw his lip . 
Mr. Rolles , he added with severity , let me remind you that I have not yet sat down . 
At the earliest possible date your daughter shall be married at the Embassy to my friend , Francis Scrymgeour , your brother's acknowledged son . 
You will oblige me by offering not less than ten thousand pounds dowry . 
For yourself , I will indicate to you in writing a mission of some importance in Siam which I destine to your care . 
And now , sir , you will answer me in two words whether or not you agree to these conditions . 
Your Highness will pardon me , said Mr. Vandeleur , and permit me , with all respect , to submit to him two queries ? The permission is granted , replied the Prince . 
Your Highness , resumed the Dictator , has called Mr. Scrymgeour his friend . 
Believe me , had I known he was thus honoured , I should have treated him with proportional respect . 
You interrogate adroitly , said the Prince but it will not serve your turn . 
You have my commands if I had never seen that gentleman before to night , it would not render them less absolute . 
Your Highness interprets my meaning with his usual subtlety , returned Vandeleur . 
The question is one between your conscience and the laws of this land . 
Give me my hat and you , Mr. Rolles , give me my cane and follow me . 
Miss Vandeleur , I wish you good evening . 
I judge , he added to Vandeleur , that your silence means unqualified assent . 
If I can do no better , replied the old man , I shall submit but I warn you openly it shall not be without a struggle . 
You are old , said the Prince but years are disgraceful to the wicked . 
Your age is more unwise than the youth of others . 
Do not provoke me , or you may find me harder than you dream . 
This is the first time that I have fallen across your path in anger take care that it be the last . 
Your daughter is no longer present , said the Prince , turning on the threshold . 
Let me tell you that I understand your threats and you have only to lift your hand to bring upon yourself sudden and irremediable ruin . 
THE ADVENTURE OF PRINCE FLORIZEL AND A DETECTIVE Prince Florizel walked with Mr. Rolles to the door of a small hotel where the latter resided . 
They spoke much together , and the clergyman was more than once affected to tears by the mingled severity and tenderness of Florizel's reproaches . 
I have made ruin of my life , he said at last . 
Help me tell me what I am to do I have , alas ! neither the virtues of a priest nor the dexterity of a rogue . 
Now that you are humbled , said the Prince , I command no longer the repentant have to do with God and not with princes . 
Accurst indeed ! replied Mr. Rolles . 
Where is it now ? What further hurt is it not working for mankind ? It will do no more evil , returned the Prince . 
It is here in my pocket . 
And this , he added kindly , will show that I place some faith in your penitence , young as it is . 
Suffer me to touch your hand , pleaded Mr. Rolles . 
No , replied Prince Florizel , not yet . 
For several hours the Prince walked alone in unfrequented streets . 
God help me ! he thought if I look at it much oftener , I shall begin to grow covetous myself . 
At last , though still uncertain in his mind , he turned his steps towards the small but elegant mansion on the river side which had belonged for centuries to his royal family . 
Grave servants are seen passing to and fro within and from time to time the great gate is thrown open and a carriage rolls below the arch . 
As he was approaching the postern door by which he always entered when alone , a man stepped forth from the shadow and presented himself with an obeisance in the Prince's path . 
I have the honour of addressing Prince Florizel of Bohemia ? said he . 
Such is my title , replied the Prince . 
What do you want with me ? I am , said the man , a detective , and I have to present your Highness with this billet from the Prefect of Police . 
The Prince took the letter and glanced it through by the light of the street lamp . 
It was highly apologetic , but requested him to follow the bearer to the Prefecture without delay . 
In short , said Florizel , I am arrested . 
Your Highness , replied the officer , nothing , I am certain , could be further from the intention of the Prefect . 
You will observe that he has not granted a warrant . 
It is mere formality , or call it , if you prefer , an obligation that your Highness lays on the authorities . 
Upon my word , cried Florizel , your effrontery astounds me ! Yourself , as an agent , I must pardon but your superiors shall dearly smart for their misconduct . 
Let me remind you , officer , that this is an affair of some gravity . 
Your Highness , said the detective humbly , General Vandeleur and his brother have had the incredible presumption to accuse you of theft . 
The famous diamond , they declare , is in your hands . 
Florizel , up to the last moment , had regarded his adventure in the light of a trifle , only serious upon international considerations . 
At the name of Vandeleur the horrible truth broke upon him in a moment he was not only arrested , but he was guilty . 
This was not only an annoying incident it was a peril to his honour . 
He could not give the required assurance to the detective . 
His hesitation had not lasted a second . 
Be it so , said he , let us walk together to the Prefecture . 
The man once more bowed , and proceeded to follow Florizel at a respectful distance in the rear . 
Approach , said the Prince . 
I am in a humour to talk , and , if I mistake not , now I look at you again , this is not the first time that we have met . 
I count it an honour , replied the officer , that your Highness should recollect my face . 
It is eight years since I had the pleasure of an interview . 
To remember faces , returned Florizel , is as much a part of my profession as it is of yours . 
Indeed , rightly looked upon , a Prince and a detective serve in the same corps . 
I had rather , strange as you may think it , be a detective of character and parts than a weak and ignoble sovereign . 
Your Highness returns good for evil , said he . 
To an act of presumption he replies by the most amiable condescension . 
How do you know , replied Florizel , that I am not seeking to corrupt you ? Heaven preserve me from the temptation ! cried the detective . 
I applaud your answer , returned the Prince . 
It is that of a wise and honest man . 
The world is a great place and stocked with wealth and beauty , and there is no limit to the rewards that may be offered . 
It is thus , thanks to that modest and becoming habit alone , he added , that you and I can walk this town together with untarnished hearts . 
I had always heard that you were brave , replied the officer , but I was not aware that you were wise and pious . 
You speak the truth , and you speak it with an accent that moves me to the heart . 
This world is indeed a place of trial . 
We are now , said Florizel , in the middle of the bridge . 
Lean your elbows on the parapet and look over . 
As the water rushing below , so the passions and complications of life carry away the honesty of weak men . 
Let me tell you a story . 
I receive your Highness's commands , replied the man . 
And , imitating the Prince , he leaned against the parapet , and disposed himself to listen . 
In the end , he had amassed a magnificent fortune , and brought home with him the coveted diamond . 
Years passed , continued the Prince , and at length the diamond is accidentally lost . 
It falls into the hands of a simple and laborious youth , a student , a minister of God , just entering on a career of usefulness and even distinction . 
Upon him also the spell is cast he deserts everything , his holy calling , his studies , and flees with the gem into a foreign country . 
The officer has a brother , an astute , daring , unscrupulous man , who learns the clergyman's secret . 
What does he do ? Tell his brother , inform the police ? No upon this man also the Satanic charm has fallen he must have the stone for himself . 
At the risk of murder , he drugs the young priest and seizes the prey . 
The officer's name is Thomas Vandeleur , continued Florizel . 
The stone is called the Rajah's Diamond . 
And suddenly opening his hand you behold it here before your eyes . 
The officer started back with a cry . 
We have spoken of corruption , said the Prince . 
To me this nugget of bright crystal is as loathsome as though it were crawling with the worms of death it is as shocking as though it were compacted out of innocent blood . 
I see it here in my hand , and I know it is shining with hell fire . 
The Prince made a sudden movement with his hand , and the jewel , describing an arc of light , dived with a splash into the flowing river . 
Amen , said Florizel with gravity . 
I have slain a cockatrice ! God pardon me ! cried the detective . 
What have you done ? I am a ruined man . 
I think , returned the Prince with a smile , that many well to do people in this city might envy you your ruin . 
Alas ! your Highness ! said the officer , and you corrupt me after all ? It seems there was no help for it , replied Florizel . 
And now let us go forward to the Prefecture . 
Not long after , the marriage of Francis Scrymgeour and Miss Vandeleur was celebrated in great privacy and the Prince acted on that occasion as groomsman . 
The two Vandeleurs surprised some rumour of what had happened to the diamond and their vast diving operations on the River Seine are the wonder and amusement of the idle . 
It is true that through some miscalculation they have chosen the wrong branch of the river . 
As for the Prince , that sublime person , having now served his turn , may go , along with the ARABIAN AUTHOR , topsy turvy into space . 
THE PAVILION ON THE LINKS CHAPTER I TELLS HOW I CAMPED IN GRADEN SEA WOOD , AND BEHELD A LIGHT IN THE PAVILION I was a great solitary when I was young . 
With one man only was I on private terms this was R. Northmour , Esquire , of Graden Easter , in Scotland . 
Misanthropes , we believed ourselves to be but I have thought since that we were only sulky fellows . 
It was scarcely a companionship , but a coexistence in unsociability . 
I think we called each other friends . 
The mansion house of Graden stood in a bleak stretch of country some three miles from the shore of the German Ocean . 
It was impossible for two young men to lodge with comfort in such a dwelling . 
I might have stayed longer but one March night there sprang up between us a dispute , which rendered my departure necessary . 
Northmour spoke hotly , I remember , and I suppose I must have made some tart rejoinder . 
The next morning , we met on our usual terms but I judged it more delicate to withdraw nor did he attempt to dissuade me . 
It was nine years before I revisited the neighbourhood . 
It was a life in which I delighted and I fully thought to have grown old upon the march , and at last died in a ditch . 
No thoroughfare passed within three miles of it . 
The nearest town , and that was but a fisher village , was at a distance of six or seven . 
For ten miles of length , and from a depth varying from three miles to half a mile , this belt of barren country lay along the sea . 
The beach , which was the natural approach , was full of quicksands . 
Indeed I may say there is hardly a better place of concealment in the United Kingdom . 
I determined to pass a week in the Sea Wood of Graden Easter , and making a long stage , reached it about sundown on a wild September day . 
The country , I have said , was mixed sand hill and links LINKS being a Scottish name for sand which has ceased drifting and become more or less solidly covered with turf . 
The quicksands were of great extent at low water , and had an infamous reputation in the country . 
The district was alive with rabbits , and haunted by gulls which made a continual piping about the pavilion . 
A ship beating to windward on the horizon , and a huge truncheon of wreck half buried in the sands at my feet , completed the innuendo of the scene . 
The pavilion it had been built by the last proprietor , Northmour's uncle , a silly and prodigal virtuoso presented little signs of age . 
The Sea Wood of Graden had been planted to shelter the cultivated fields behind , and check the encroachments of the blowing sand . 
Inland the ground rose into a little hill , which , along with the islet , served as a sailing mark for seamen . 
When the hill was open of the islet to the north , vessels must bear well to the eastward to clear Graden Ness and the Graden Bullers . 
One or two ruined cottages were dotted about the wood and , according to Northmour , these were ecclesiastical foundations , and in their time had sheltered pious hermits . 
My horse I picketed farther in the wood where there was a patch of sward . 
The banks of the den not only concealed the light of my fire , but sheltered me from the wind , which was cold as well as high . 
The life I was leading made me both hardy and frugal . 
A young moon , buried in mist , gave a faint illumination to my steps and the light grew brighter as I walked forth into the links . 
When I raised it again to look about me , I was aware of a light in the pavilion . 
It was not stationary but passed from one window to another , as though some one were reviewing the different apartments with a lamp or candle . 
I watched it for some seconds in great surprise . 
When I had arrived in the afternoon the house had been plainly deserted now it was as plainly occupied . 
It was my first idea that a gang of thieves might have broken in and be now ransacking Northmour's cupboards , which were many and not ill supplied . 
I dismissed the notion , and fell back upon another . 
Northmour himself must have arrived , and was now airing and inspecting the pavilion . 
As it was , I turned and ran for it and it was with genuine satisfaction that I found myself safely back beside the fire . 
I had escaped an acquaintance I should have one more night in comfort . 
In the morning , I might either slip away before Northmour was abroad , or pay him as short a visit as I chose . 
But when morning came , I thought the situation so diverting that I forgot my shyness . 
The shutters were all once more closed , which I remember thinking odd and the house , with its white walls and green venetians , looked spruce and habitable in the morning light . 
Hour after hour passed , and still no sign of Northmour . 
I knew him for a sluggard in the morning but , as it drew on towards noon , I lost my patience . 
To say the truth , I had promised myself to break my fast in the pavilion , and hunger began to prick me sharply . 
The appearance of the house affected me , as I drew near , with disquietude . 
It seemed unchanged since last evening and I had expected it , I scarce knew why , to wear some external signs of habitation . 
But no the windows were all closely shuttered , the chimneys breathed no smoke , and the front door itself was closely padlocked . 
My mind at once reverted to the original theory of thieves and I blamed myself sharply for my last night's inaction . 
I examined all the windows on the lower storey , but none of them had been tampered with I tried the padlocks , but they were both secure . 
It thus became a problem how the thieves , if thieves they were , had managed to enter the house . 
I followed what I supposed was their example and , getting on the roof , tried the shutters of each room . 
Then I threw up the window and climbed in . 
I went over the house , and nothing can express my mystification . 
There was no sign of disorder , but , on the contrary , the rooms were unusually clean and pleasant . 
But the vessel's head was set the other way . 
The schooner in the offing was the one touch of life within my range of vision . 
She , apparently with no set object , stood off and on or lay to , hour after hour but as the evening deepened , she drew steadily nearer . 
All day the wind had been going down , and the sea along with it but there was a return towards sunset of the heavy weather of the day before . 
The night set in pitch dark . 
I concluded that this must be a signal to Northmour's associates on shore and , stepping forth into the links , looked around me for something in response . 
I concealed myself once more among the elders , and waited eagerly for the newcomer's advance . 
It proved to be a woman and , as she passed within half a rod of my ambush , I was able to recognise the features . 
The deaf and silent old dame , who had nursed Northmour in his childhood , was his associate in this underhand affair . 
She entered the pavilion , and , going at once to the upper storey , opened and set a light in one of the windows that looked towards the sea . 
Immediately afterwards the light at the schooner's masthead was run down and extinguished . 
Its purpose had been attained , and those on board were sure that they were expected . 
Northmour and his guests , I was now persuaded , would come ashore as soon as there was water on the floe . 
It was a wild night for boat service and I felt some alarm mingle with my curiosity as I reflected on the danger of the landing . 
My old acquaintance , it was true , was the most eccentric of men but the present eccentricity was both disquieting and lugubrious to consider . 
A variety of feelings thus led me towards the beach , where I lay flat on my face in a hollow within six feet of the track that led to the pavilion . 
Thence , I should have the satisfaction of recognising the arrivals , and , if they should prove to be acquaintances , greeting them as soon as they had landed . 
They returned to the beach , and passed me a second time with another chest , larger but apparently not so heavy as the first . 
A third time they made the transit and on this occasion one of the yachtsmen carried a leather portmanteau , and the others a lady's trunk and carriage bag . 
My curiosity was sharply excited . 
When he and I dwelt there together , the pavilion had been a temple of misogyny . 
And now , one of the detested sex was to be installed under its roof . 
While I was thus reflecting , a second lantern drew near me from the beach . 
It was carried by a yachtsman whom I had not yet seen , and who was conducting two other persons to the pavilion . 
These two persons were unquestionably the guests for whom the house was made ready and , straining eye and ear , I set myself to watch them as they passed . 
One was an unusually tall man , in a travelling hat slouched over his eyes , and a highland cape closely buttoned and turned up so as to conceal his face . 
You could make out no more of him than that he was , as I have said , unusually tall , and walked feebly with a heavy stoop . 
By his side , and either clinging to him or giving him support I could not make out which was a young , tall , and slender figure of a woman . 
When they were just abreast of me , the girl made some remark which was drowned by the noise of the wind . 
Hush ! said her companion and there was something in the tone with which the word was uttered that thrilled and rather shook my spirits . 
But these two passed on and were admitted in their turn to the pavilion . 
One by one , or in groups , the seamen returned to the beach . 
The wind brought me the sound of a rough voice crying , Shove off ! Then , after a pause , another lantern drew near . 
In person he was tall , strong , and active his hair and complexion very dark his features handsomely designed , but spoiled by a menacing expression . 
And yet I thought he had a look of triumph underlying all , as though he had already done much , and was near the end of an achievement . 
Partly from a scruple of delicacy which I dare say came too late partly from the pleasure of startling an acquaintance , I desired to make my presence known to him without delay . 
I got suddenly to my feet , and stepped forward . 
Northmour ! said I. I have never had so shocking a surprise in all my days . 
He leaped on me without a word something shone in his hand and he struck for my heart with a dagger . 
At the same moment I knocked him head over heels . 
I fled , but not far . 
The lantern had fallen and gone out . 
The more I reflected , the further I felt at sea . 
Here were at least six separate causes for extreme surprise each part and parcel with the others , and forming all together one consistent story . 
I felt almost ashamed to believe my own senses . 
On the way , the old nurse passed again within several yards of me , still carrying her lantern , on the return journey to the mansion house of Graden . 
There must surely be great cause for secrecy , when so many inconveniences were confronted to preserve it . 
So thinking , I made my way to the den . 
For greater security , I trod out the embers of the fire , and lit my lantern to examine the wound upon my shoulder . 
with some rag and cold water from the spring . 
While I was thus busied , I mentally declared war against Northmour and his mystery . 
I am not an angry man by nature , and I believe there was more curiosity than resentment in my heart . 
But war I certainly declared and , by way of preparation , I got out my revolver , and , having drawn the charges , cleaned and reloaded it with scrupulous care . 
Next I became preoccupied about my horse . 
It might break loose , or fall to neighing , and so betray my camp in the Sea Wood . 
I determined to rid myself of its neighbourhood and long before dawn I was leading it over the links in the direction of the fisher village . 
CHAPTER III TELLS HOW I BECAME ACQUAINTED WITH MY WIFE For two days I skulked round the pavilion , profiting by the uneven surface of the links . 
I became an adept in the necessary tactics . 
These low hillocks and shallow dells , running one into another , became a kind of cloak of darkness for my enthralling , but perhaps dishonourable , pursuit . 
Yet , in spite of this advantage , I could learn but little of Northmour or his guests . 
Fresh provisions were brought under cover of darkness by the old woman from the mansion house . 
Northmour , and the young lady , sometimes together , but more often singly , would walk for an hour or two at a time on the beach beside the quicksand . 
I could not but conclude that this promenade was chosen with an eye to secrecy for the spot was open only to the seaward . 
The tall man seemed to have disappeared . 
The idea , even then , displeased me . 
Whether or not this pair were man and wife , I had seen abundant reason to doubt the friendliness of their relation . 
The girl walked faster when she was with Northmour than when she was alone and I conceived that any inclination between a man and a woman would rather delay than accelerate the step . 
Moreover , she kept a good yard free of him , and trailed her umbrella , as if it were a barrier , on the side between them . 
But , when this was imminent , the girl would unostentatiously change sides and put Northmour between her and the sea . 
I watched these manoeuvres , for my part , with high enjoyment and approval , and chuckled to myself at every move . 
On the morning of the third day , she walked alone for some time , and I perceived , to my great concern , that she was more than once in tears . 
You will see that my heart was already interested more than I supposed . 
On this occasion she was accompanied by Northmour , and they had been but a short while on the beach , when I saw him take forcible possession of her hand . 
She struggled , and uttered a cry that was almost a scream . 
A few words were interchanged and then , with another bow , he left the beach to return to the pavilion . 
He passed not far from me , and I could see him , flushed and lowering , and cutting savagely with his cane among the grass . 
It was not without satisfaction that I recognised my own handiwork in a great cut under his right eye , and a considerable discolouration round the socket . 
For some time the girl remained where he had left her , looking out past the islet and over the bright sea . 
Then with a start , as one who throws off preoccupation and puts energy again upon its mettle , she broke into a rapid and decisive walk . 
She also was much incensed by what had passed . 
She had forgotten where she was . 
And I beheld her walk straight into the borders of the quicksand where it is most abrupt and dangerous . 
She did so , and turned round . 
There was not a tremor of fear in her behaviour , and she marched directly up to me like a queen . 
What does this mean ? she asked . 
You were walking , I told her , directly into Graden Floe . 
You do not belong to these parts , she said again . 
You speak like an educated man . 
I believe I have right to that name , said I , although in this disguise . 
But her woman's eye had already detected the sash . 
Oh ! she said your sash betrays you . 
You have said the word BETRAY , I resumed . 
May I ask you not to betray me ? I was obliged to disclose myself in your interest but if Northmour learned my presence it might be worse than disagreeable for me . 
Do you know , she asked , to whom you are speaking ? Not to Mr. Northmour's wife ? I asked , by way of answer . 
All this while she was studying my face with an embarrassing intentness . 
Then she broke out You have an honest face . 
Be honest like your face , sir , and tell me what you want and what you are afraid of . 
Do you think I could hurt you ? I believe you have far more power to injure me ! And yet you do not look unkind . 
My name is Cassilis Frank Cassilis . 
I lead the life of a vagabond for my own good pleasure . 
I am one of Northmour's oldest friends and three nights ago , when I addressed him on these links , he stabbed me in the shoulder with a knife . 
It was you ! she said . 
Why he did so , I continued , disregarding the interruption , is more than I can guess , and more than I care to know . 
I have not many friends , nor am I very susceptible to friendship but no man shall drive me from a place by terror . 
I had camped in Graden Sea Wood ere he came I camp in it still . 
If you think I mean harm to you or yours , madam , the remedy is in your hand . 
Tell him that my camp is in the Hemlock Den , and to night he can stab me in safety while I sleep . 
With this I doffed my cap to her , and scrambled up once more among the sand hills . 
I was astonished to observe that she was deadly pale , and seemingly under the influence of strong emotion . 
Mr. Cassilis ! she cried Mr. Cassilis ! I appeared at once , and leaped down upon the beach . 
A remarkable air of relief overspread her countenance as soon as she saw me . 
Oh ! she cried , with a hoarse sound , like one whose bosom has been lightened of a weight . 
And then , Thank God you are still safe ! she added I knew , if you were , you would be here . 
Do not , she went , on swiftly , do not stay in this place . 
Promise me that you will sleep no longer in that wood . 
You do not know how I suffer all last night I could not sleep for thinking of your peril . 
Peril from whom ? From Northmour ? Not so , she said . 
Did you think I would tell him after what you said ? Not from Northmour ? I repeated . 
Then how ? From whom ? I see none to be afraid of . 
You must not ask me , was her reply , for I am not free to tell you . 
My obstinacy was but increased by what she said , and I made it a point of honour to remain . 
And her solicitude for my safety still more confirmed me in the resolve . 
You must not think me inquisitive , madam , I replied but , if Graden is so dangerous a place , you yourself perhaps remain here at some risk . 
She only looked at me reproachfully . 
You and your father I resumed but she interrupted me almost with a gasp . 
My father ! How do you know that ? she cried . 
I saw you together when you landed , was my answer and I do not know why , but it seemed satisfactory to both of us , as indeed it was the truth . 
But , I continued , you need have no fear from me . 
I see you have some reason to be secret , and , you may believe me , your secret is as safe with me as if I were in Graden Floe . 
I have scarce spoken to any one for years my horse is my only companion , and even he , poor beast , is not beside me . 
You see , then , you may count on me for silence . 
I will tell you so much you are right we are in dreadful , dreadful danger , and you share it by remaining where you are . 
Ah ! said I you have heard of me from Northmour ? And he gives me a good character ? I asked him about you last night , was her reply . 
I pretended , she hesitated , I pretended to have met you long ago , and spoken to you of him . 
It was not true but I could not help myself without betraying you , and you had put me in a difficulty . 
And you may permit me one question does this danger come from Northmour ? I asked . 
From Mr. Northmour ? she cried . 
Oh no he stays with us to share it . 
While you propose that I should run away ? I said . 
You do not rate me very high . 
Why should you stay ? she asked . 
You are no friend of ours . 
No , no , she said , in a changed voice I did not mean the words unkindly . 
I held it for awhile in mine , and gazed into her eyes . 
And then I knew that I loved her , and thought in my glad heart that she she herself was not indifferent to my suit . 
Many a time she has denied it in after days , but it was with a smiling and not a serious denial . 
For my part , I am sure our hands would not have lain so closely in each other if she had not begun to melt to me already . 
And , when all is said , it is no great contention , since , by her own avowal , she began to love me on the morrow . 
And yet on the morrow very little took place . 
Even a little secret , in such a married life as ours , is like the rose leaf which kept the Princess from her sleep . 
From this the talk branched into other subjects , and I told her much about my lonely and wandering existence she , for her part , giving ear , and saying little . 
Although we spoke very naturally , and latterly on topics that might seem indifferent , we were both sweetly agitated . 
My father is in hiding ! she cried . 
Her father , Bernard Huddlestone , had been a private banker in a very large way of business . 
Many years before , his affairs becoming disordered , he had been led to try dangerous , and at last criminal , expedients to retrieve himself from ruin . 
All was in vain he became more and more cruelly involved , and found his honour lost at the same moment with his fortune . 
It was not merely ruin and dishonour , nor merely a legal condemnation , that the unhappy man had brought upon his head . 
It seems he could have gone to prison with a light heart . 
What he feared , what kept him awake at night or recalled him from slumber into frenzy , was some secret , sudden , and unlawful attempt upon his life . 
The yacht picked them up clandestinely upon the coast of Wales , and had once more deposited them at Graden , till she could be refitted and provisioned for the longer voyage . 
Nor could Clara doubt that her hand had been stipulated as the price of passage . 
For , although Northmour was neither unkind nor even discourteous , he had shown himself in several instances somewhat overbold in speech and manner . 
I listened , I need not say , with fixed attention , and put many questions as to the more mysterious part . 
She had no clear idea of what the blow was , nor of how it was expected to fall . 
Her father's alarm was unfeigned and physically prostrating , and he had thought more than once of making an unconditional surrender to the police . 
But the scheme was finally abandoned , for he was convinced that not even the strength of our English prisons could shelter him from his pursuers . 
He had shown great terror at the presence of an Italian seaman on board the RED EARL , and had bitterly and repeatedly accused Northmour in consequence . 
I regarded the whole story as the hallucination of a mind shaken by calamity . 
What your father wants , I said , is a good doctor and some calming medicine . 
But Mr. Northmour ? objected your mother . 
He is untroubled by losses , and yet he shares in this terror . 
I could not help laughing at what I considered her simplicity . 
My dear , said I , you have told me yourself what reward he has to look for . 
She reminded me of his attack upon myself on the night of the disembarkation , and this I was unable to explain . 
The next morning , at the same hour and place , I was to make my report to Clara . 
I had dressed myself somewhat more suitably to my station in life , and at once called upon the minister in his little manse beside the graveyard . 
With these I sought the tavern , and , ordering some breakfast , sat down to study the Huddlestone Failure . 
It had been , it appeared , a very flagrant case . 
Thousands of persons were reduced to poverty and one in particular had blown out his brains as soon as payment was suspended . 
A price was naturally set upon the banker's head and , as the case was inexcusable and the public indignation thoroughly aroused , the unusual figure of pounds was offered for his capture . 
He was reported to have large sums of money in his possession . 
But in all this there was no word of an Italian , nor any sign of mystery . 
In the very last paper , however , there was one item not so clear . 
The name of a distinguished Royal personage had been mentioned by rumour in connection with this sum . 
The cowardly desperado such , I remember , was the editorial expression was supposed to have escaped with a large part of this mysterious fund still in his possession . 
SIETE ITALIANO ? said I. SI , SIGNOR , was his reply . 
I said it was unusually far north to find one of his compatriots at which he shrugged his shoulders , and replied that a man would go anywhere to find work . 
He said he had once seen some Norwegians , who had been shipwrecked on the other side of Graden Ness and rescued by the lifeboat from Cauldhaven . 
No ! said I but an Italian , like the man who has just had bread and cheese . 
Even as he was speaking , I raised my eyes , and , casting a glance into the street , beheld three men in earnest conversation together , and not thirty yards away . 
One of them was my recent companion in the tavern parlour the other two , by their handsome , sallow features and soft hats , should evidently belong to the same race . 
A crowd of village children stood around them , gesticulating and talking gibberish in imitation . 
I might reason with myself as I pleased , but I could not argue down the effect of what I had seen , and I began to share in the Italian terror . 
It was already drawing towards the close of the day before I had returned the newspapers at the manse , and got well forward on to the links on my way home . 
I shall never forget that walk . 
The upper windows of the pavilion commanded a considerable spread of links in the direction of Graden Wester . 
Step by step I followed the prints until , a quarter of a mile farther , I beheld them die away into the south eastern boundary of Graden Floe . 
There , whoever he was , the miserable man had perished . 
One or two gulls , who had , perhaps , seen him disappear , wheeled over his sepulchre with their usual melancholy piping . 
The sun had broken through the clouds by a last effort , and coloured the wide level of quicksands with a dusky purple . 
I stood for some time gazing at the spot , chilled and disheartened by my own reflections , and with a strong and commanding consciousness of death . 
I remember wondering how long the tragedy had taken , and whether his screams had been audible at the pavilion . 
I believe , but I am not sure , that I uttered a cry . 
The wind was driving the hat shoreward , and I ran round the border of the floe to be ready against its arrival . 
The gust fell , dropping the hat for a while upon the quicksand , and then , once more freshening , landed it a few yards from where I stood . 
I seized it with the interest you may imagine . 
It had seen some service indeed , it was rustier than either of those I had seen that day upon the street . 
The lining was red , stamped with the name of the maker , which I have forgotten , and that of the place of manufacture , VENEDIG . 
was the name given by the Austrians to the beautiful city of Venice , then , and for long after , a part of their dominions . 
How long I may have slept it is impossible for me to guess but I was awakened at last by a sudden , blinding flash of light into my face . 
It woke me like a blow . 
In an instant I was upon my knees . 
But the light had gone as suddenly as it came . 
And , as it was blowing great guns from the sea and pouring with rain , the noises of the storm effectually concealed all others . 
It was , I dare say , half a minute before I regained my self possession . 
But for two circumstances , I should have thought I had been awakened by some new and vivid form of nightmare . 
I had been wakened by some one flashing a bull's eye lantern in my face . 
It had been but a flash , and away . 
He had seen my face , and then gone . 
I asked myself the object of so strange a proceeding , and the answer came pat . 
The man , whoever he was , had thought to recognise me , and he had not . 
A light in the upper story filtered through a cranny of the shutter , and kept me company till the approach of dawn . 
Over all the wilderness of links there was not a creature to be seen . 
Yet I felt sure the neighbourhood was alive with skulking foes . 
It was , perhaps , half past seven , or nearer eight , before I saw the door open , and that dear figure come towards me in the rain . 
I was waiting for her on the beach before she had crossed the sand hills . 
I have had such trouble to come ! she cried . 
They did not wish me to go walking in the rain . 
Clara , I said , you are not frightened ! No , said she , with a simplicity that filled my heart with confidence . 
I told her what had happened and , though her cheek grew visibly paler , she retained perfect control over her senses . 
You see now that I am safe , said I , in conclusion . 
They do not mean to harm me for , had they chosen , I was a dead man last night . 
She laid her hand upon my arm . 
And I had no presentiment ! she cried . 
Her accent thrilled me with delight . 
Yet up to that moment no word of love had passed between us . 
We may have thus stood for some seconds for time passes quickly with lovers before we were startled by a peal of laughter close at hand . 
It was not natural mirth , but seemed to be affected in order to conceal an angrier feeling . 
Ah ! Cassilis ! he said , as I disclosed my face . 
That same , said I for I was not at all put about . 
That girl , as you call her , is my wife , said I and my wife only leaned a little nearer , so that I knew she had affirmed my words . 
Your what ? he cried . 
You lie ! Northmour , I said , we all know you have a bad temper , and I am the last man to be irritated by words . 
For all that , I propose that you speak lower , for I am convinced that we are not alone . 
He looked round him , and it was plain my remark had in some degree sobered his passion . 
What do you mean ? he asked . 
I only said one word Italians . 
He swore a round oath , and looked at us , from one to the other . 
Mr. Cassilis knows all that I know , said my wife . 
What I want to know , he broke out , is where the devil Mr. Cassilis comes from , and what the devil Mr. Cassilis is doing here . 
You say you are married that I do not believe . 
If you were , Graden Floe would soon divorce you four minutes and a half , Cassilis . 
I keep my private cemetery for my friends . 
It took somewhat longer , said I , for that Italian . 
He looked at me for a moment half daunted , and then , almost civilly , asked me to tell my story . 
You have too much the advantage of me , Cassilis , he added . 
Well , said he , when I had done , it is here at last there is no mistake about that . 
And the bargain ? D n it , you're not a fool , young woman I may call a spade a spade with you . 
How about the bargain ? You know as well as I do what your father's life depends upon . 
I have only to put my hands under my coat tails and walk away , and his throat would he cut before the evening . 
Yes , Mr. Northmour , returned Clara , with great spirit but that is what you will never do . 
You made a bargain that was unworthy of a gentleman but you are a gentleman for all that , and you will never desert a man whom you have begun to help . 
He looked at her with a peculiar approval and admiration then , turning to me , Do you think I would give her up without a struggle , Frank ? said he . 
I tell you plainly , you look out . 
The next time we come to blows Will make the third , I interrupted , smiling . 
Aye , true so it will , he said . 
Well , the third time's lucky . 
The third time , you mean , you will have the crew of the RED EARL to help , I said . 
Do you hear him ? he asked , turning to my wife . 
I hear two men speaking like cowards , said she . 
I should despise myself either to think or speak like that . 
And neither of you believe one word that you are saying , which makes it the more wicked and silly . 
She's a trump ! cried Northmour . 
But she's not yet Mrs. Cassilis . 
The present is not for me . 
Then my wife surprised me . 
I leave you here , she said suddenly . 
My father has been too long alone . 
But remember this you are to be friends , for you are both good friends to me . 
She has since told me her reason for this step . 
Northmour stared after her as she went away over the sand hill She is the only woman in the world ! he exclaimed with an oath . 
I , for my part , leaped at this opportunity for a little further light . 
We have all hell upon us , that's the truth . 
You may believe me or not , but I'm afraid of my life . 
Tell me one thing , said I. What are they after , these Italians ? What do they want with Mr. Huddlestone ? Don't you know ? he cried . 
The black old scamp had CARBONARO funds on a deposit two hundred and eighty thousand and of course he gambled it away on stocks . 
There was to have been a revolution in the Tridentino , or Parma but the revolution is off , and the whole wasp's nest is after Huddlestone . 
We shall all be lucky if we can save our skins . 
The CARBONARI ! I exclaimed God help him indeed ! Amen ! said Northmour . 
And now , look here I have said that we are in a fix and , frankly , I shall be glad of your help . 
If I can't save Huddlestone , I want at least to save the girl . 
Come and stay in the pavilion and , there's my hand on it , I shall act as your friend until the old man is either clear or dead . 
But , he added , once that is settled , you become my rival once again , and I warn you mind yourself . 
Done ! said I and we shook hands . 
And now let us go directly to the fort , said Northmour and he began to lead the way through the rain . 
CHAPTER VI TELLS OF MY INTRODUCTION TO THE TALL MAN We were admitted to the pavilion by Clara , and I was surprised by the completeness and security of the defences . 
It was at once a solid and well designed piece of carpentry and I did not seek to conceal my admiration . 
I am the engineer , said Northmour . 
Thank you , I returned I have gone armed since our last encounter . 
But , to tell you the truth , I have had nothing to eat since early yesterday evening . 
As I ate , I still continued to admire the preparations for defence . 
We could stand a siege , I said at length . 
Ye es , drawled Northmour a very little one , per haps . 
It is not so much the strength of the pavilion I misdoubt it is the doubled anger that kills me . 
It is a devilish bad thing to have the law against you in this world , and so I tell the old gentleman upstairs . 
He is quite of my way of thinking . 
Speaking of that , said I , what kind of person is he ? Oh , he ! cried the other he's a rancid fellow , as far as he goes . 
I should like to have his neck wrung to morrow by all the devils in Italy . 
I am not in this affair for him . 
You take me ? I made a bargain for Missy's hand , and I mean to have it too . 
That by the way , said I. I understand . 
But how will Mr. Huddlestone take my intrusion ? Leave that to Clara , returned Northmour . 
I bear him this testimony with the most unfeigned satisfaction nor am I without pride when I look back upon my own behaviour . 
For surely no two men were ever left in a position so invidious and irritating . 
As soon as I had done eating , we proceeded to inspect the lower floor . 
Window by window we tried the different supports , now and then making an inconsiderable change and the strokes of the hammer sounded with startling loudness through the house . 
I proposed , I remember , to make loop holes but he told me they were already made in the windows of the upper story . 
It was an anxious business this inspection , and left me down hearted . 
There were two doors and five windows to protect , and , counting Clara , only four of us to defend them against an unknown number of foes . 
I communicated my doubts to Northmour , who assured me , with unmoved composure , that he entirely shared them . 
Before morning , said he , we shall all be butchered and buried in Graden Floe . 
For me , that is written . 
I could not help shuddering at the mention of the quicksand , but reminded Northmour that our enemies had spared me in the wood . 
Do not flatter yourself , said he . 
Then you were not in the same boat with the old gentleman now you are . 
It's the floe for all of us , mark my words . 
I trembled for Clara and just then her dear voice was heard calling us to come upstairs . 
Come in , Northmour come in , dear Mr. Cassilis , said a voice from within . 
Pushing open the door , Northmour admitted me before him into the apartment . 
As I came in I could see the daughter slipping out by the side door into the study , which had been prepared as her bedroom . 
Little as I had seen of him by the shifting light of the lantern on the links , I had no difficulty in recognising him for the same . 
He had a long and sallow countenance , surrounded by a long red beard and side whiskers . 
His broken nose and high cheekbones gave him somewhat the air of a Kalmuck , and his light eyes shone with the excitement of a high fever . 
I believe if he had not died otherwise , he must have fallen a victim to consumption in the course of but a very few weeks . 
He held out to me a hand , long , thin , and disagreeably hairy . 
Come in , come in , Mr. Cassilis , said he . 
Another protector ahem ! another protector . 
Always welcome as a friend of my daughter's , Mr. Cassilis . 
Cassilis is a good man , said Northmour worth ten . 
So I hear , cried Mr. Huddlestone eagerly so my girl tells me . 
Ah , Mr. Cassilis , my sin has found me out , you see ! I am very low , very low but I hope equally penitent . 
We must all come to the throne of grace at last , Mr. Cassilis . 
For my part , I come late indeed but with unfeigned humility , I trust . 
Fiddle de dee ! said Northmour roughly . 
No , no , dear Northmour ! cried the banker . 
You must not say that you must not try to shake me . 
You forget , my dear , good boy , you forget I may be called this very night before my Maker . 
Pooh , my dear Huddlestone ! said he . 
You are a man of the world inside and out , and were up to all kinds of mischief before I was born . 
Your conscience is tanned like South American leather only you forgot to tan your liver , and that , if you will believe me , is the seat of the annoyance . 
Rogue , rogue ! bad boy ! said Mr. Huddlestone , shaking his finger . 
I am no precisian , if you come to that I always hated a precisian but I never lost hold of something better through it all . 
And talking of that Hark ! he broke out suddenly , his hand raised , his fingers spread , his face racked with interest and terror . 
Only the rain , bless God ! he added , after a pause , and with indescribable relief . 
One question , sir , said I , when he had paused . 
Is it true that you have money with you ? He seemed annoyed by the question , but admitted with reluctance that he had a little . 
Huddlestone , that's a little less than fair , said Northmour . 
You should mention that what you offered them was upwards of two hundred thousand short . 
The deficit is worth a reference it is for what they call a cool sum , Frank . 
Is it in the pavilion ? I asked . 
Do you think Cassilis would sell you ? Mr. Huddlestone protested that nothing had been further from his mind . 
It is a good thing , retorted Northmour in his ugliest manner . 
You might end by wearying us . 
What were you going to say ? he added , turning to me . 
I was going to propose an occupation for the afternoon , '' said I. Let us carry that money out , piece by piece , and lay it down before the pavilion door . 
If the CARBONARI come , why , it's theirs at any rate . 
No , no , cried Mr. Huddlestone it does not , it cannot belong to them ! It should be distributed PRO RATA among all my creditors . 
Come now , Huddlestone , said Northmour , none of that . 
Well , but my daughter , moaned the wretched man . 
Your daughter will do well enough . 
Here are two suitors , Cassilis and I , neither of us beggars , between whom she has to choose . 
And as for yourself , to make an end of arguments , you have no right to a farthing , and , unless I'm much mistaken , you are going to die . 
Northmour and I , I said , are willing enough to help you to save your life , but not to escape with stolen property . 
He struggled for a while with himself , as though he were on the point of giving way to anger , but prudence had the best of the controversy . 
My dear boys , he said , do with me or my money what you will . 
I leave all in your hands . 
And so we left him , gladly enough I am sure . 
The last that I saw , he had once more taken up his great Bible , and with tremulous hands was adjusting his spectacles to read . 
CHAPTER VII TELLS HOW A WORD WAS CRIED THROUGH THE PAVILION WINDOW The recollection of that afternoon will always be graven on my mind . 
The worst was to be anticipated yet we could conceive no extremity so miserable as the suspense we were now suffering . 
Even talk became impossible , as the hours went on . 
One or other was always listening for some sound , or peering from an upstairs window over the links . 
And yet not a sign indicated the presence of our foes . 
The sum was part in specie , part in bank paper , and part in circular notes payable to the name of James Gregory . 
We took it out , counted it , enclosed it once more in a despatch box belonging to Northmour , and prepared a letter in Italian which he tied to the handle . 
It was signed by both of us under oath , and declared that this was all the money which had escaped the failure of the house of Huddlestone . 
This was , perhaps , the maddest action ever perpetrated by two persons professing to be sane . 
It was nearly three when we issued from the pavilion . 
The rain had taken off the sun shone quite cheerfully . 
I have never seen the gulls fly so close about the house or approach so fearlessly to human beings . 
On the very doorstep one flapped heavily past our heads , and uttered its wild cry in my very ear . 
There is an omen for you , said Northmour , who like all freethinkers was much under the influence of superstition . 
They think we are already dead . 
I made some light rejoinder , but it was with half my heart for the circumstance had impressed me . 
A yard or two before the gate , on a patch of smooth turf , we set down the despatch box and Northmour waved a white handkerchief over his head . 
We raised our voices , and cried aloud in Italian that we were there as ambassadors to arrange the quarrel but the stillness remained unbroken save by the sea gulls and the surf . 
I had a weight at my heart when we desisted and I saw that even Northmour was unusually pale . 
He looked over his shoulder nervously , as though he feared that some one had crept between him and the pavilion door . 
I glanced in the direction indicated and there , from the northern quarter of the Sea Wood , beheld a thin column of smoke rising steadily against the now cloudless sky . 
, it is not possible to endure this suspense . 
I prefer death fifty times over . 
Stay you here to watch the pavilion I will go forward and make sure , if I have to walk right into their camp . 
He looked once again all round him with puckered eyes , and then nodded assentingly to my proposal . 
The ground in this direction was very uneven a hundred men might have lain hidden in as many square yards about my path . 
It was not long before I was rewarded for my caution . 
I had dislodged one of the spies from his ambush . 
He was even paler than when I had left him , and his voice shook a little . 
Could you see what he was like ? he asked . 
He kept his back turned , I replied . 
Let us get into the house , Frank . 
I don't think I'm a coward , but I can stand no more of this , he whispered . 
It was not until the door was barricaded that I could draw a full inspiration and relieve the weight that lay upon my bosom . 
Northmour and I exchanged a steady glance and I suppose each made his own reflections on the white and startled aspect of the other . 
You were right , I said . 
Shake hands , old man , for the last time . 
Yes , replied he , I will shake hands for , as sure as I am here , I bear no malice . 
But , remember , if , by some impossible accident , we should give the slip to these blackguards , I'll take the upper hand of you by fair or foul . 
Oh , said I , you weary me ! He seemed hurt , and walked away in silence to the foot of the stairs , where he paused . 
You do not understand , said he . 
I am not a swindler , and I guard myself that is all . 
It may weary you or not , Mr. Cassilis , I do not care a rush I speak for my own satisfaction , and not for your amusement . 
You had better go upstairs and court the girl for my part , I stay here . 
And I stay with you , I returned . 
I think I must be FEY to day you cannot irritate me even when you try . 
Let us take a drink , he concluded suddenly , but without any levity of tone . 
I was touched by his words , and consented . 
He sat down on the table in the dining room , and held up the glass of sherry to his eye . 
If you beat me , Frank , he said , I shall take to drink . 
What will you do , if it goes the other way ? God knows , I returned . 
Well , said he , here is a toast in the meantime 'ITALIA IRREDENTA ! The remainder of the day was passed in the same dreadful tedium and suspense . 
I laid the table for dinner , while Northmour and Clara prepared the meal together in the kitchen . 
I could hear their talk as I went to and fro , and was surprised to find it ran all the time upon myself . 
This awakened a sense of gratitude in my heart , which combined with the immediateness of our peril to fill my eyes with tears . 
After all , I thought and perhaps the thought was laughably vain we were here three very noble human beings to perish in defence of a thieving banker . 
Before we sat down to table , I looked forth from an upstairs window . 
The day was beginning to decline the links were utterly deserted the despatch box still lay untouched where we had left it hours before . 
Mr. Huddlestone , in a long yellow dressing gown , took one end of the table , Clara the other while Northmour and I faced each other from the sides . 
The lamp was brightly trimmed the wine was good the viands , although mostly cold , excellent of their sort . 
We seemed to have agreed tacitly all reference to the impending catastrophe was carefully avoided and , considering our tragic circumstances , we made a merrier party than could have been expected . 
But he hastened to empty his glass , wiped his forehead with his handkerchief , and joined again in the conversation . 
I was astonished at the wit and information he displayed . 
A snail , I said at last for I had heard that these animals make a noise somewhat similar in character . 
Snail be d d ! said Northmour . 
Northmour and I had each run to the armoury and seized a gun . 
Clara was on her feet with her hand at her throat . 
Quick , said Northmour upstairs with him before they come . 
His daughter opened his shirt and began to wet his head and bosom while Northmour and I ran to the window . 
Thank God , said Northmour , Aggie is not coming to night . 
We were again reduced to waiting . 
Northmour went to the fireplace and spread his hands before the red embers , as if he were cold . 
I followed him mechanically with my eyes , and in so doing turned my back upon the window . 
At that moment a very faint report was audible from without , and a ball shivered a pane of glass , and buried itself in the shutter two inches from my head . 
An air gun , he said . 
They wish to make no noise . 
I put Clara aside , and looked at him . 
He was standing with his back to the fire and his hands clasped behind him and I knew by the black look on his face , that passion was boiling within . 
He gazed straight before him but he could see us with the tail of his eye , and his temper kept rising like a gale of wind . 
With regular battle awaiting us outside , this prospect of an internecine strife within the walls began to daunt me . 
Suddenly , as I was thus closely watching his expression and prepared against the worst , I saw a change , a flash , a look of relief , upon his face . 
He took up the lamp which stood beside him on the table , and turned to us with an air of some excitement . 
There is one point that we must know , said he . 
I am near as tall , and my head is fair . 
Clara sought to rush forward and pull him from the place of danger but I had the pardonable selfishness to hold her back by force . 
Yes , said Northmour , turning coolly from the window it's only Huddlestone they want . 
Oh , Mr. Northmour ! cried Clara but found no more to add the temerity she had just witnessed seeming beyond the reach of words . 
The fire is only beginning , said he . 
When they warm up to their work , they won't be so particular . 
A voice was now heard hailing us from the entrance . 
It was the same voice that had already shouted TRADITORE ! through the shutters of the dining room this time it made a complete and clear statement . 
If the traitor Oddlestone were given up , all others should be spared if not , no one should escape to tell the tale . 
Well , Huddlestone , what do you say to that ? asked Northmour , turning to the bed . 
It was the most hideous and abject performance that my imagination can conceive . 
I believe that nothing so delighted Northmour at that moment as the thought that we must all infallibly perish before the night was out . 
Meantime the Italian put his flag of truce into his pocket , and disappeared , at a leisurely pace , among the sand hills . 
They make honourable war , said Northmour . 
They are all gentlemen and soldiers . 
Tut ! Don't look shocked ! We are all going post to what they call eternity , and may as well be above board while there's time . 
As far as I'm concerned , if I could first strangle Huddlestone and then get Clara in my arms , I could die with some pride and satisfaction . 
And as it is , by God , I'll have a kiss ! Before I could do anything to interfere , he had rudely embraced and repeatedly kissed the resisting girl . 
Next moment I had pulled him away with fury , and flung him heavily against the wall . 
He laughed loud and long , and I feared his wits had given way under the strain for even in the best of days he had been a sparing and a quiet laugher . 
Now , Frank , said he , when his mirth was somewhat appeased , it's your turn . 
I turned from him with a feeling of contempt which I did not seek to dissemble . 
As you please , said he . 
You've been a prig in life a prig you'll die . 
had already come to an end , and was succeeded by a sullen , scowling humour . 
All this time our assailants might have been entering the house , and we been none the wiser we had in truth almost forgotten the danger that so imminently overhung our days . 
But just then Mr. Huddlestone uttered a cry , and leaped from the bed . 
I asked him what was wrong . 
They have set the house on fire ! Northmour was on his feet in an instant , and he and I ran through the door of communication with the study . 
The room was illuminated by a red and angry light . 
Almost at the moment of our entrance , a tower of flame arose in front of the window , and , with a tingling report , a pane fell inwards on the carpet . 
They had set fire to the lean to outhouse , where Northmour used to nurse his negatives . 
Hot work , said Northmour . 
Let us try in your old room . 
We ran thither in a breath , threw up the casement , and looked forth . 
At the same time , hot , pungent , and choking volumes of smoke began to fill the house . 
There was not a human being to be seen to right or left . 
Ah , well ! said Northmour , here's the end , thank God . 
And we returned to MY UNCLE'S ROOM . 
Mr. Huddlestone was putting on his boots , still violently trembling , but with an air of determination such as I had not hitherto observed . 
There is nothing else left , I replied . 
And both Clara and Mr. Huddlestone , though with a very different intonation , added , Nothing . 
At the same moment we heard the fall of something heavy and inelastic in the upper story . 
Northmour and I cocked our revolvers . 
Mr. Huddlestone , who had already refused a firearm , put us behind him with a manner of command . 
Let Clara open the door , said he . 
So , if they fire a volley , she will be protected . 
And in the meantime stand behind me . 
I am the scapegoat my sins have found me out . 
In the meantime , Clara , who was dead white but still possessed her faculties , had displaced the barricade from the front door . 
Another moment , and she had pulled it open . 
Firelight and moonlight illuminated the links with confused and changeful lustre , and far away against the sky we could see a long trail of glowing smoke . 
But scarce had we passed the threshold when there came near a dozen reports and flashes from every direction among the hollows of the links . 
Mr. Huddlestone staggered , uttered a weird and freezing cry , threw up his arms over his head , and fell backward on the turf . 
TRADITORE ! TRADITORE ! cried the invisible avengers . 
And just then , a part of the roof of the pavilion fell in , so rapid was the progress of the fire . 
A loud , vague , and horrible noise accompanied the collapse , and a vast volume of flame went soaring up to heaven . 
Bernard Huddlestone , although God knows what were his obsequies , had a fine pyre at the moment of his death . 
CHAPTER IX TELLS HOW NORTHMOUR CARRIED OUT HIS THREAT I should have the greatest difficulty to tell you what followed next after this tragic circumstance . 
It is all to me , as I look back upon it , mixed , strenuous , and ineffectual , like the struggles of a sleeper in a nightmare . 
Clara , I remember , uttered a broken sigh and would have fallen forward to earth , had not Northmour and I supported her insensible body . 
I do not think we were attacked I do not remember even to have seen an assailant and I believe we deserted Mr. Huddlestone without a glance . 
Why we should have made for my camp in the Hemlock Den , or how we reached it , are points lost for ever to my recollection . 
He had already twice wounded me on the scalp and it is to the consequent loss of blood that I am tempted to attribute the sudden clearness of my mind . 
I caught him by the wrist . 
Northmour , I remember saying , you can kill me afterwards . 
Let us first attend to Clara . 
He was at that moment uppermost . 
Shame to you , Northmour ! And , giddy though I still was , I struck him repeatedly upon the head and shoulders . 
He relinquished his grasp , and faced me in the broken moonlight . 
I had you under , and I let you go , said he and now you strike me ! Coward ! You are the coward , I retorted . 
Stand aside , and let me help her . 
He confronted me for a moment , white and menacing then suddenly he stepped aside . 
Help her then , said he . 
Keep your hands of her , said Northmour fiercely . 
I dare you to , he cried . 
It was such a caress as a father might have given it was such a one as was not unbecoming from a man soon to die to a woman already dead . 
And now , said I , I am at your service , Mr. Northmour . 
But I saw , to my surprise , that he had turned his back upon me . 
Do you hear ? I asked . 
Yes , said he , I do . 
If you wish to fight , I am ready . 
If not , go on and save Clara . 
All is one to me . 
I did not wait to be twice bidden but , stooping again over Clara , continued my efforts to revive her . 
She still lay white and lifeless I began to fear that her sweet spirit had indeed fled beyond recall , and horror and a sense of utter desolation seized upon my heart . 
Northmour , I said , there is my hat . 
For God's sake bring some water from the spring . 
Almost in a moment he was by my side with the water . 
I have brought it in my own , he said . 
You do not grudge me the privilege ? Northmour , I was beginning to say , as I laved her head and breast but he interrupted me savagely . 
Oh , you hush up ! he said . 
The best thing you can do is to say nothing . 
He had , perhaps , gone several times upon this errand , when Clara reopened her eyes . 
Now , said he , since she is better , you can spare me , can you not ? I wish you a good night , Mr. Cassilis . 
And with that he was gone among the thicket . 
Day had already come , when a sharp Hist ! sounded from the thicket . 
I started from the ground but the voice of Northmour was heard adding , in the most tranquil tones Come here , Cassilis , and alone I want to show you something . 
I consulted Clara with my eyes , and , receiving her tacit permission , left her alone , and clambered out of the den . 
At some distance of I saw Northmour leaning against an elder and , as soon as he perceived me , he began walking seaward . 
I had almost overtaken him as he reached the outskirts of the wood . 
Look , said he , pausing . 
A couple of steps more brought me out of the foliage . 
The light of the morning lay cold and clear over that well known scene . 
Close by the islet a schooner yacht lay to , and a well manned boat was pulling vigorously for the shore . 
The RED EARL ! I cried . 
The RED EARL twelve hours too late ! Feel in your pocket , Frank . 
Are you armed ? asked Northmour . 
I obeyed him , and I think I must have become deadly pale . 
My revolver had been taken from me . 
You see I have you in my power , he continued . 
I disarmed you last night while you were nursing Clara but this morning here take your pistol . 
No thanks ! he cried , holding up his hand . 
I do not like them that is the only way you can annoy me now . 
He began to walk forward across the links to meet the boat , and I followed a step or two behind . 
In front of the pavilion I paused to see where Mr. Huddlestone had fallen but there was no sign of him , nor so much as a trace of blood . 
Graden Floe , said Northmour . 
He continued to advance till we had come to the head of the beach . 
No farther , please , said he . 
Would you like to take her to Graden House ? Thank you , replied I I shall try to get her to the minister's at Graden Wester . 
The prow of the boat here grated on the beach , and a sailor jumped ashore with a line in his hand . 
Wait a minute , lads ! cried Northmour and then lower and to my private ear You had better say nothing of all this to her , he added . 
On the contrary ! I broke out , she shall know everything that I can tell . 
You do not understand , he returned , with an air of great dignity . 
It will be nothing to her she expects it of me . 
Good bye ! he added , with a nod . 
I offered him my hand . 
Excuse me , said he . 
It's small , I know but I can't push things quite so far as that . 
I don't wish any sentimental business , to sit by your hearth a white haired wanderer , and all that . 
Quite the contrary I hope to God I shall never again clap eyes on either one of you . 
Well , God bless you , Northmour ! I said heartily . 
Oh , yes , he returned . 
He walked down the beach and the man who was ashore gave him an arm on board , and then shoved off and leaped into the bows himself . 
Northmour took the tiller the boat rose to the waves , and the oars between the thole pins sounded crisp and measured in the morning air . 
They were not yet half way to the RED EARL , and I was still watching their progress , when the sun rose out of the sea . 
One word more , and my story is done . 
Years after , Northmour was killed fighting under the colours of Garibaldi for the liberation of the Tyrol . 
A LODGING FOR THE NIGHT A STORY OF FRANCIS VILLON It was late in November . 
To poor people , looking up under moist eyebrows , it seemed a wonder where it all came from . 
The air was raw and pointed , but not far below freezing and the flakes were large , damp , and adhesive . 
The whole city was sheeted up . 
An army might have marched from end to end and not a footfall given the alarm . 
High up overhead the snow settled among the tracery of the cathedral towers . 
Many a niche was drifted full many a statue wore a long white bonnet on its grotesque or sainted head . 
The gargoyles had been transformed into great false noses , drooping towards the point . 
The crockets were like upright pillows swollen on one side . 
In the intervals of the wind , there was a dull sound of dripping about the precincts of the church . 
John had taken its own share of the snow . 
The clock was hard on ten when the patrol went by with halberds and a lantern , beating their hands and they saw nothing suspicious about the cemetery of St . 
Yet there was a small house , backed up against the cemetery wall , which was still awake , and awake to evil purpose , in that snoring district . 
A great pile of living embers diffused a strong and ruddy glow from the arched chimney . 
Before this straddled Dom Nicolas , the Picardy monk , with his skirts picked up and his fat legs bared to the comfortable warmth . 
His dilated shadow cut the room in half and the firelight only escaped on either side of his broad person , and in a little pool between his outspread feet . 
His cowl had half fallen back , and made a strange excrescence on either side of his bull neck . 
So he straddled , grumbling , and cut the room in half with the shadow of his portly frame . 
The poet was a rag of a man , dark , little , and lean , with hollow cheeks and thin black locks . 
He carried his four and twenty years with feverish animation . 
Greed had made folds about his eyes , evil smiles had puckered his mouth . 
The wolf and pig struggled together in his face . 
It was an eloquent , sharp , ugly , earthly countenance . 
His hands were small and prehensile , with fingers knotted like a cord and they were continually flickering in front of him in violent and expressive pantomime . 
At the monk's other hand , Montigny and Thevenin Pensete played a game of chance . 
Thevenin , poor soul , was in great feather he had done a good stroke of knavery that afternoon in the Faubourg St . 
Jacques , and all night he had been gaining from Montigny . 
A flat smile illuminated his face his bald head shone rosily in a garland of red curls his little protuberant stomach shook with silent chucklings as he swept in his gains . 
Doubles or quits ? said Thevenin . 
Some may prefer to dine in state , wrote Villon , On bread and cheese on silver plate . 
Or or help me out , Guido ! Tabary giggled . 
Or parsley on a golden dish , scribbled the poet . 
The wind was freshening without it drove the snow before it , and sometimes raised its voice in a victorious whoop , and made sepulchral grumblings in the chimney . 
The cold was growing sharper an the night went on . 
Villon , protruding his lips , imitated the gust with something between a whistle and a groan . 
It was an eerie , uncomfortable talent of the poet's , much detested by the Picardy monk . 
Can't you hear it rattle in the gibbet ? said Villon . 
They are all dancing the devil's jig on nothing , up there . 
Denis Road ? he asked . 
Dom Nicolas winked both his big eyes , and seemed to choke upon his Adam's apple . 
Montfaucon , the great grisly Paris gibbet , stood hard by the St . 
Denis Road , and the pleasantry touched him on the raw . 
As for Tabary , he laughed immoderately over the medlars he had never heard anything more light hearted and he held his sides and crowed . 
Villon fetched him a fillip on the nose , which turned his mirth into an attack of coughing . 
Oh , stop that row , said Villon , and think of rhymes to 'fish' . 
Doubles or quits , said Montigny doggedly . 
With all my heart , quoth Thevenin . 
Is there any more in that bottle ? asked the monk . 
Open another , said Villon . 
Villon filliped his nose again . 
Laugh at my jokes , if you like , he said . 
It was very good , objected Tabary . 
Villon made a face at him . 
Think of rhymes to 'fish' , he said . 
Talking of the devil , he added in a whisper , look at Montigny ! All three peered covertly at the gamester . 
He did not seem to be enjoying his luck . 
His mouth was a little to a side one nostril nearly shut , and the other much inflated . 
The black dog was on his back , as people say , in terrifying nursery metaphor and he breathed hard under the gruesome burden . 
He looks as if he could knife him , whispered Tabary , with round eyes . 
The monk shuddered , and turned his face and spread his open hands to the red embers . 
It was the cold that thus affected Dom Nicolas , and not any excess of moral sensibility Come now , said Villon about this ballade . 
How does it run so far ? And beating time with his hand , he read it aloud to Tabary . 
They were interrupted at the fourth rhyme by a brief and fatal movement among the gamesters . 
The round was completed , and Thevenin was just opening his mouth to claim another victory , when Montigny leaped up , swift as an adder , and stabbed him to the heart . 
The blow took effect before he had time to utter a cry , before he had time to move . 
Everyone sprang to his feet but the business was over in two twos . 
The four living fellows looked at each other in rather a ghastly fashion the dead man contemplating a corner of the roof with a singular and ugly leer . 
My God ! said Tabary and he began to pray in Latin . 
Villon broke out into hysterical laughter . 
He came a step forward and ducked a ridiculous bow at Thevenin , and laughed still louder . 
Then he sat down suddenly , all of a heap , upon a stool , and continued laughing bitterly as though he would shake himself to pieces . 
Montigny recovered his composure first . 
Let's see what he has about him , he remarked and he picked the dead man's pockets with a practised hand , and divided the money into four equal portions on the table . 
There's for you , he said . 
The monk received his share with a deep sigh , and a single stealthy glance at the dead Thevenin , who was beginning to sink into himself and topple sideways of the chair . 
We're all in for it , cried Villon , swallowing his mirth . 
It's a hanging job for every man jack of us that's here not to speak of those who aren't . 
Then he pocketed his share of the spoil , and executed a shuffle with his feet as if to restore the circulation . 
Tabary was the last to help himself he made a dash at the money , and retired to the other end of the apartment . 
Montigny stuck Thevenin upright in the chair , and drew out the dagger , which was followed by a jet of blood . 
You fellows had better be moving , he said , as he wiped the blade on his victim's doublet . 
I think we had , returned Villon with a gulp . 
Damn his fat head ! he broke out . 
It sticks in my throat like phlegm . 
Montigny and Dom Nicolas laughed aloud , even Tabary feebly chiming in . 
Cry baby , said the monk . 
I always said he was a woman , added Montigny with a sneer . 
Sit up , can't you ? he went on , giving another shake to the murdered body . 
Montigny and Tabary dumbly demanded a share of the booty , which the monk silently promised as he passed the little bag into the bosom of his gown . 
In many ways an artistic nature unfits a man for practical existence . 
No sooner had the theft been accomplished than Villon shook himself , jumped to his feet , and began helping to scatter and extinguish the embers . 
Meanwhile Montigny opened the door and cautiously peered into the street . 
The coast was clear there was no meddlesome patrol in sight . 
The wind had triumphed and swept all the clouds from heaven . 
Only a few vapours , as thin as moonlight , fleeting rapidly across the stars . 
It was bitter cold and by a common optical effect , things seemed almost more definite than in the broadest daylight . 
The sleeping city was absolutely still a company of white hoods , a field full of little Alps , below the twinkling stars . 
John wherever he went he must weave , with his own plodding feet , the rope that bound him to the crime and would bind him to the gallows . 
The leer of the dead man came back to him with a new significance . 
He snapped his fingers as if to pluck up his own spirits , and choosing a street at random , stepped boldly forward in the snow . 
Both struck cold upon his heart , and he kept quickening his pace as if he could escape from unpleasant thoughts by mere fleetness of foot . 
Suddenly he saw , a long way before him , a black clump and a couple of lanterns . 
The clump was in motion , and the lanterns swung as though carried by men walking . 
And though it was merely crossing his line of march , he judged it wiser to get out of eyeshot as speedily as he could . 
He was not in the humour to be challenged , and he was conscious of making a very conspicuous mark upon the snow . 
His heart gave a leap , and he sprang two steps back and stared dreadfully at the obstacle . 
Then he gave a little laugh of relief . 
It was only a woman , and she dead . 
He knelt beside her to make sure upon this latter point . 
She was freezing cold , and rigid like a stick . 
A little ragged finery fluttered in the wind about her hair , and her cheeks had been heavily rouged that same afternoon . 
Her pockets were quite empty but in her stocking , underneath the garter , Villon found two of the small coins that went by the name of whites . 
It was little enough but it was always something and the poet was moved with a deep sense of pathos that she should have died before she had spent her money . 
He would like to use all his tallow before the light was blown out and the lantern broken . 
While these thoughts were passing through his mind , he was feeling , half mechanically , for his purse . 
Suddenly his heart stopped beating a feeling of cold scales passed up the back of his legs , and a cold blow seemed to fall upon his scalp . 
He stood petrified for a moment then he felt again with one feverish movement and then his loss burst upon him , and he was covered at once with perspiration . 
For such a person to lose his money is to suffer the most shocking reverse , and fall from heaven to hell , from all to nothing , in a breath . 
Then he began rapidly to retrace his steps towards the house beside the cemetery . 
He had forgotten all fear of the patrol , which was long gone by at any rate , and had no idea but that of his lost purse . 
It was in vain that he looked right and left upon the snow nothing was to be seen . 
He had not dropped it in the streets . 
Had it fallen in the house ? He would have liked dearly to go in and see but the idea of the grisly occupant unmanned him . 
He returned to the hotel with the porch , and groped about upon the snow for the money he had thrown away in his childish passion . 
But he could only find one white the other had probably struck sideways and sunk deeply in . 
With a single white in his pocket , all his projects for a rousing night in some wild tavern vanished utterly away . 
And it was not only pleasure that fled laughing from his grasp positive discomfort , positive pain , attacked him as he stood ruefully before the porch . 
His perspiration had dried upon him and though the wind had now fallen , a binding frost was setting in stronger with every hour , and be felt benumbed and sick at heart . 
What was to be done ? Late as was the hour , improbable as was success , he would try the house of his adopted father , the chaplain of St . 
He ran there all the way , and knocked timidly . 
He knocked again and again , taking heart with every stroke and at last steps were heard approaching from within . 
A barred wicket fell open in the iron studded door , and emitted a gush of yellow light . 
Hold up your face to the wicket , said the chaplain from within . 
It's only me , whimpered Villon . 
My hands are blue to the wrist , pleaded Villon my feet are dead and full of twinges my nose aches with the sharp air the cold lies at my heart . 
I may be dead before morning . 
Only this once , father , and before God I will never ask again ! You should have come earlier , said the ecclesiastic coolly . 
Young men require a lesson now and then . 
He shut the wicket and retired deliberately into the interior of the house . 
Villon was beside himself he beat upon the door with his hands and feet , and shouted hoarsely after the chaplain . 
Wormy old fox ! he cried . 
If I had my hand under your twist , I would send you flying headlong into the bottomless pit . 
A door shut in the interior , faintly audible to the poet down long passages . 
He passed his hand over his mouth with an oath . 
And then the humour of the situation struck him , and he laughed and looked lightly up to heaven , where the stars seemed to be winking over his discomfiture . 
What was to be done ? It looked very like a night in the frosty streets . 
He passed all his chances under review , turning the white between his thumb and forefinger . 
Unfortunately he was on bad terms with some old friends who would once have taken pity on him in such a plight . 
It was worth trying at least , and he would go and see . 
On the way , two little accidents happened to him which coloured his musings in a very different manner . 
For , first , he fell in with the track of a patrol , and walked in it for some hundred yards , although it lay out of his direction . 
The other matter affected him very differently . 
He passed a street corner , where , not so long before , a woman and her child had been devoured by wolves . 
He remembered his mother telling him the story and pointing out the spot , while he was yet a child . 
His mother ! If he only knew where she lived , he might make sure at least of shelter . 
The poet named himself in a loud whisper , and waited , not without come trepidation , the result . 
Nor had he to wait long . 
A window was suddenly opened , and a pailful of slops splashed down upon the doorstep . 
His hose began to freeze almost at once . 
Death from cold and exposure stared him in the face he remembered he was of phthisical tendency , and began coughing tentatively . 
But the gravity of the danger steadied his nerves . 
He stopped a few hundred yards from the door where he had been so rudely used , and reflected with his finger to his nose . 
He could only see one way of getting a lodging , and that was to take it . 
The devil ! he thought . 
He went boldly to the door and knocked with an assured hand . 
A tall figure of a man , muscular and spare , but a little bent , confronted Villon . 
You knock late , sir , said the old man in resonant , courteous tones . 
You are cold , repeated the old man , and hungry ? Well , step in . 
And he ordered him into the house with a noble enough gesture . 
Some great seigneur , thought Villon , as his host , setting down the lamp on the flagged pavement of the entry , shot the bolts once more into their places . 
It was very bare of furniture only some gold plate on a sideboard some folios and a stand of armour between the windows . 
Some smart tapestry hung upon the walls , representing the crucifixion of our Lord in one piece , and in another a scene of shepherds and shepherdesses by a running stream . 
Over the chimney was a shield of arms . 
He weighed the gold flagons in his hand , opened all the folios , and investigated the arms upon the shield , and the stuff with which the seats were lined . 
He raised the window curtains , and saw that the windows were set with rich stained glass in figures , so far as he could see , of martial import . 
Seven pieces of plate , he said . 
If there had been ten , I would have risked it . 
His entertainer had a plate of meat in one hand and a jug of wine in the other . 
He set down the plate upon the table , motioning Villon to draw in his chair , and going to the sideboard , brought back two goblets , which he filled . 
I drink to your better fortune , he said , gravely touching Villon's cup with his own . 
To our better acquaintance , said the poet , growing bold . 
And so he devoted himself to the viands with a ravenous gusto , while the old man , leaning backward , watched him with steady , curious eyes . 
You have blood on your shoulder , my man , he said . 
Montigny must have laid his wet right hand upon him as he left the house . 
He cursed Montigny in his heart . 
It was none of my shedding , he stammered . 
I had not supposed so , returned his host quietly . 
A brawl ? Well , something of that sort , Villon admitted with a quaver . 
Perhaps a fellow murdered ? Oh no , not murdered , said the poet , more and more confused . 
It was all fair play murdered by accident . 
I had no hand in it , God strike me dead ! he added fervently . 
One rogue the fewer , I dare say , observed the master of the house . 
You may dare to say that , agreed Villon , infinitely relieved . 
As big a rogue as there is between here and Jerusalem . 
He turned up his toes like a lamb . 
But it was a nasty thing to look at . 
I dare say you've seen dead men in your time , my lord ? he added , glancing at the armour . 
Many , said the old man . 
I have followed the wars , as you imagine . 
Villon laid down his knife and fork , which he had just taken up again . 
Were any of them bald ? he asked . 
Oh yes , and with hair as white as mine . 
I don't think I should mind the white so much , said Villon . 
And he had a return of his shuddering and tendency to laughter , which he drowned with a great draught of wine . 
I'm a little put out when I think of it , he went on . 
I knew him damn him ! And then the cold gives a man fancies or the fancies give a man cold , I don't know which . 
Have you any money ? asked the old man . 
I have one white , returned the poet , laughing . 
I got it out of a dead jade's stocking in a porch . 
She was as dead as Caesar , poor wench , and as cold as a church , with bits of ribbon sticking in her hair . 
This is a hard world in winter for wolves and wenches and poor rogues like me . 
I , said the old man , am Enguerrand de la Feuillee , seigneur de Brisetout , bailly du Patatrac . 
Who and what may you be ? Villon rose and made a suitable reverence . 
I am called Francis Villon , he said , a poor Master of Arts of this university . 
I know some Latin , and a deal of vice . 
I can make chansons , ballades , lais , virelais , and roundels , and I am very fond of wine . 
I was born in a garret , and I shall not improbably die upon the gallows . 
I may add , my lord , that from this night forward I am your lordship's very obsequious servant to command . 
No servant of mine , said the knight my guest for this evening , and no more . 
A very grateful guest , said Villon politely and he drank in dumb show to his entertainer . 
Is it not a kind of theft ? It is a kind of theft much practised in the wars , my lord . 
The wars are the field of honour , returned the old man proudly . 
There a man plays his life upon the cast he fights in the name of his lord the king , his Lord God , and all their lordships the holy saints and angels . 
Put it , said Villon , that I were really a thief , should I not play my life also , and against heavier odds ? For gain , but not for honour . 
Gain ? repeated Villon with a shrug . 
Gain ! The poor fellow wants supper , and takes it . 
So does the soldier in a campaign . 
Why , what are all these requisitions we hear so much about ? If they are not gain to those who take them , they are loss enough to the others . 
The men at arms drink by a good fire , while the burgher bites his nails to buy them wine and wood . 
These things are a necessity of war , which the low born must endure with constancy . 
It is true that some captains drive over hard there are spirits in every rank not easily moved by pity and indeed many follow arms who are no better than brigands . 
You come up blowing gloriously on a trumpet , take away the whole sheep , and beat the farmer pitifully into the bargain . 
Look at us two , said his lordship . 
I am old , strong , and honoured . 
If I were turned from my house to morrow , hundreds would be proud to shelter me . 
Poor people would go out and pass the night in the streets with their children , if I merely hinted that I wished to be alone . 
I wait God's summons contentedly in my own house , or , if it please the king to call me out again , upon the field of battle . 
You look for the gallows a rough , swift death , without hope or honour . 
Is there no difference between these two ? As far as to the moon , Villon acquiesced . 
I a thief ! If you understood your words , you would repent them . 
Villon turned out his hands with a gesture of inimitable impudence . 
If your lordship had done me the honour to follow my argument ! he said . 
I do you too much honour in submitting to your presence , said the knight . 
Learn to curb your tongue when you speak with old and honourable men , or some one hastier than I may reprove you in a sharper fashion . 
And he rose and paced the lower end of the apartment , struggling with anger and antipathy . 
He was now replete and warm and he was in nowise frightened for his host , having gauged him as justly as was possible between two such different characters . 
The night was far spent , and in a very comfortable fashion after all and he felt morally certain of a safe departure on the morrow . 
Tell me one thing , said the old man , pausing in his walk . 
Are you really a thief ? I claim the sacred rights of hospitality , returned the poet . 
My lord , I am . 
You are very young , the knight continued . 
I should never have been so old , replied Villon , showing his fingers , if I had not helped myself with these ten talents . 
They have been my nursing mothers and my nursing fathers . 
You may still repent and change . 
I repent daily , said the poet . 
There are few people more given to repentance than poor Francis . 
As for change , let somebody change my circumstances . 
A man must continue to eat , if it were only that he may continue to repent . 
The change must begin in the heart , returned the old man solemnly . 
My dear lord , answered Villon , do you really fancy that I steal for pleasure ? I hate stealing , like any other piece of work or of danger . 
My teeth chatter when I see a gallows . 
But I must eat , I must drink , I must mix in society of some sort . 
What the devil ! Man is not a solitary animal CUI DEUS FAEMINAM TRADIT . 
Make me king's pantler make me abbot of St . 
Denis make me bailly of the Patatrac and then I shall be changed indeed . 
But as long as you leave me the poor scholar Francis Villon , without a farthing , why , of course , I remain the same . 
The grace of God is all powerful . 
I should be a heretic to question it , said Francis . 
It has made you lord of Brisetout and bailly of the Patatrac it has given me nothing but the quick wits under my hat and these ten toes upon my hands . 
May I help myself to wine ? I thank you respectfully . 
By God's grace , you have a very superior vintage . 
The lord of Brisetout walked to and fro with his hands behind his back . 
There is something more than I can understand in this , he said at length . 
Listen to me once more . 
It is not only written in all noble histories , but in every man's heart , if he will take care to read . 
You are attending to the little wants , and you have totally forgotten the great and only real ones , like a man who should be doctoring a toothache on the Judgment Day . 
I speak to you as I think you will most easily understand me . 
You think I have no sense of honour ! he cried . 
I'm poor enough , God knows ! It's hard to see rich people with their gloves , and you blowing in your hands . 
An empty belly is a bitter thing , although you speak so lightly of it . 
If you had had as many as I , perhaps you would change your tune . 
Any way I'm a thief make the most of that but I'm not a devil from hell , God strike me dead . 
It seems quite natural to me I keep it in its box till it's wanted . 
I will tell you what you are , he said . 
You are a rogue , my man , an impudent and a black hearted rogue and vagabond . 
I have passed an hour with you . 
Oh ! believe me , I feel myself disgraced ! And you have eaten and drunk at my table . 
But now I am sick at your presence the day has come , and the night bird should be off to his roost . 
Will you go before , or after ? Which you please , returned the poet , rising . 
I believe you to be strictly honourable . 
He thoughtfully emptied his cup . 
I wish I could add you were intelligent , he went on , knocking on his head with his knuckles . 
Age , age ! the brains stiff and rheumatic . 
The old man preceded him from a point of self respect Villon followed , whistling , with his thumbs in his girdle . 
God pity you , said the lord of Brisetout at the door . 
Good bye , papa , returned Villon with a yawn . 
Many thanks for the cold mutton . 
The door closed behind him . 
The dawn was breaking over the white roofs . 
A chill , uncomfortable morning ushered in the day . 
Villon stood and heartily stretched himself in the middle of the road . 
A very dull old gentleman , he thought . 
I wonder what his goblets may be worth . 
THE SIRE DE MALETROIT'S DOOR Denis de Beaulieu was not yet two and twenty , but he counted himself a grown man , and a very accomplished cavalier into the bargain . 
It was not a very wise proceeding on the young man's part . 
He would have done better to remain beside the fire or go decently to bed . 
It was September the weather had fallen sharp a flighty piping wind , laden with showers , beat about the township and the dead leaves ran riot along the streets . 
As the night fell the wind rose , and began to hoot under archways and roar amid the tree tops in the valley below the town . 
The wind had fallen again in the meanwhile the night was as black as the grave not a star , nor a glimmer of moonshine , slipped through the canopy of cloud . 
Denis was ill acquainted with the intricate lanes of Chateau Landon even by daylight he had found some trouble in picking his way and in this absolute darkness he soon lost it altogether . 
It is an eerie and mysterious position to be thus submerged in opaque blackness in an almost unknown town . 
The silence is terrifying in its possibilities . 
He had been for some time threading a lane so narrow that he could touch a wall with either hand , when it began to open out and go sharply downward . 
Plainly this lay no longer in the direction of his inn but the hope of a little more light tempted him forward to reconnoitre . 
Denis looked down , and could discern a few tree tops waving and a single speck of brightness where the river ran across a weir . 
The weather was clearing up , and the sky had lightened , so as to show the outline of the heavier clouds and the dark margin of the hills . 
It was a party of men at arms going the night round with torches . 
Denis assured himself that they had all been making free with the wine bowl , and were in no mood to be particular about safe conducts or the niceties of chivalrous war . 
It was as like as not that they would kill him like a dog and leave him where he fell . 
The situation was inspiriting but nervous . 
Their own torches would conceal him from sight , he reflected and he hoped that they would drown the noise of his footsteps with their own empty voices . 
If he were but fleet and silent , he might evade their notice altogether . 
Unfortunately , as he turned to beat a retreat , his foot rolled upon a pebble he fell against the wall with an ejaculation , and his sword rang loudly on the stones . 
Two or three voices demanded who went there some in French , some in English but Denis made no reply , and ran the faster down the lane . 
Once upon the terrace , he paused to look back . 
Denis cast a look around and darted into the porch . 
There he might escape observation , or if that were too much to expect was in a capital posture whether for parley or defence . 
So thinking , he drew his sword and tried to set his back against the door . 
The round , at that very moment , debauched upon the terrace and proceeded to summon him with shouts and curses . 
He gave them a few minutes' grace for fear of accidents , and then groped about for some means of opening the door and slipping forth again . 
The inner surface was quite smooth , not a handle , not a moulding , not a projection of any sort . 
He got his finger nails round the edges and pulled , but the mass was immovable . 
He shook it , it was as firm as a rock . 
Denis de Beaulieu frowned and gave vent to a little noiseless whistle . 
What ailed the door ? he wondered . 
The darkness began to weigh upon him . 
The idea went to his vitals with a shock , and he faced about suddenly as if to defend his life . 
He was in deadly peril , he believed . 
He found himself in a large apartment of polished stone . 
There were three doors one on each of three sides all similarly curtained with tapestry . 
The fourth side was occupied by two large windows and a great stone chimney piece , carved with the arms of the Maletroits . 
Denis recognised the bearings , and was gratified to find himself in such good hands . 
On a high chair beside the chimney , and directly facing Denis as he entered , sat a little old gentleman in a fur tippet . 
He sat with his legs crossed and his hands folded , and a cup of spiced wine stood by his elbow on a bracket on the wall . 
Beautiful white hair hung straight all round his head , like a saint's , and fell in a single curl upon the tippet . 
His beard and moustache were the pink of venerable sweetness . 
Age , probably in consequence of inordinate precautions , had left no mark upon his hands and the Maletroit hand was famous . 
His quiescence seemed ironical and treacherous , it fitted so poorly with his looks . 
Such was Alain , Sire de Maletroit . 
Denis and he looked silently at each other for a second or two . 
Pray step in , said the Sire de Maletroit . 
I have been expecting you all the evening . 
He had not risen , but he accompanied his words with a smile and a slight but courteous inclination of the head . 
Partly from the smile , partly from the strange musical murmur with which the Sire prefaced his observation , Denis felt a strong shudder of disgust go through his marrow . 
And what with disgust and honest confusion of mind , he could scarcely get words together in reply . 
I fear , he said , that this is a double accident . 
I am not the person you suppose me . 
It seems you were looking for a visit but for my part , nothing was further from my thoughts nothing could be more contrary to my wishes than this intrusion . 
Well , well , replied the old gentleman indulgently , here you are , which is the main point . 
Seat yourself , my friend , and put yourself entirely at your ease . 
We shall arrange our little affairs presently . 
Denis perceived that the matter was still complicated with some misconception , and he hastened to continue his explanations . 
About my door ? asked the other , raising his peaked eyebrows . 
A little piece of ingenuity . 
And he shrugged his shoulders . 
A hospitable fancy ! By your own account , you were not desirous of making my acquaintance . 
We old people look for such reluctance now and then and when it touches our honour , we cast about until we find some way of overcoming it . 
You arrive uninvited , but believe me , very welcome . 
You persist in error , sir , said Denis . 
There can be no question between you and me . 
I am a stranger in this countryside . 
My name is Denis , damoiseau de Beaulieu . 
If you see me in your house , it is only My young friend , interrupted the other , you will permit me to have my own ideas on that subject . 
They probably differ from yours at the present moment , he added with a leer , but time will show which of us is in the right . 
Denis was convinced he had to do with a lunatic . 
It occurred to him that this piece of tapestry covered the entrance to the chapel he had noticed from without . 
This state of matters became rapidly insupportable and Denis , to put an end to it , remarked politely that the wind had gone down . 
The old gentleman fell into a fit of silent laughter , so prolonged and violent that he became quite red in the face . 
Denis got upon his feet at once , and put on his hat with a flourish . 
Sir , he said , if you are in your wits , you have affronted me grossly . 
If you are out of them , I flatter myself I can find better employment for my brains than to talk with lunatics . 
The Sire de Maletroit raised his right hand and wagged it at Denis with the fore and little fingers extended . 
My dear nephew , he said , sit down . 
Nephew ! retorted Denis , you lie in your throat and he snapped his fingers in his face . 
Sit down , you rogue ! cried the old gentleman , in a sudden , harsh voice , like the barking of a dog . 
If you choose to remain a free young buck , agreeably conversing with an old gentleman why , sit where you are in peace , and God be with you . 
Do you mean I am a prisoner ? demanded Denis . 
I state the facts , replied the other . 
I would rather leave the conclusion to yourself . 
Externally he managed to keep pretty calm but within , he was now boiling with anger , now chilled with apprehension . 
He no longer felt convinced that he was dealing with a madman . 
She is in a better frame of spirit ? asked the latter . 
She is more resigned , messire , replied the priest . 
Now the Lord help her , she is hard to please ! sneered the old gentleman . 
She should have thought of that before she began the dance . 
It was none of my choosing , God knows that but since she is in it , by our Lady , she shall carry it to the end . 
Denis had resigned himself with a good grace all he desired was to know the worst of it as speedily as possible so he rose at once , and bowed in acquiescence . 
The Sire de Maletroit followed his example and limped , with the assistance of the chaplain's arm , towards the chapel door . 
The priest pulled aside the arras , and all three entered . 
The building had considerable architectural pretensions . 
A light groining sprang from six stout columns , and hung down in two rich pendants from the centre of the vault . 
These windows were imperfectly glazed , so that the night air circulated freely in the chapel . 
On the steps in front of the altar knelt a young girl richly attired as a bride . 
Blanche , said the Sire , in his most flute like tones , I have brought a friend to see you , my little girl turn round and give him your pretty hand . 
It is good to be devout but it is necessary to be polite , my niece . 
The girl rose to her feet and turned towards the new comers . 
She paused started , as if his yellow boots had conveyed some shocking meaning and glanced suddenly up into the wearer's countenance . 
That is not the man ! she cried . 
My uncle , that in not the man ! The Sire de Maletroit chirped agreeably . 
Of course not , he said I expected as much . 
It was so unfortunate you could not remember his name . 
Indeed , she cried , indeed , I have never seen this person till this moment I have never so much as set eyes upon him I never wish to see him again . 
Sir , she said , turning to Denis , if you are a gentleman , you will bear me out . 
Have I ever seen you have you ever seen me before this accursed hour ? To speak for myself , I have never had that pleasure , answered the young man . 
This is the first time , messire , that I have met with your engaging niece . 
The old gentleman shrugged his shoulders . 
I am distressed to hear it , he said . 
But it is never too late to begin . 
As the bridegroom is to have a voice in the matter , I will give him two hours to make up for lost time before we proceed with the ceremony . 
And he turned towards the door , followed by the clergyman . 
The girl was on her feet in a moment . 
My uncle , you cannot be in earnest , she said . 
I declare before God I will stab myself rather than be forced on that young man . 
The heart rises at it God forbids such marriages you dishonour your white hair . 
Oh , my uncle , pity me ! There is not a woman in all the world but would prefer death to such a nuptial . 
But let me explain to you once for all , Blanche de Maletroit , my way of thinking about this affair . 
If your father had been alive , he would have spat on you and turned you out of doors . 
His was the hand of iron . 
You may bless your God you have only to deal with the hand of velvet , mademoiselle . 
It was my duty to get you married without delay . 
Out of pure goodwill , I have tried to find your own gallant for you . 
And I believe I have succeeded . 
But before God and all the holy angels , Blanche de Maletroit , if I have not , I care not one jack straw . 
So let me recommend you to be polite to our young friend for upon my word , your next groom may be less appetising . 
And with that he went out , with the chaplain at his heels and the arras fell behind the pair . 
The girl turned upon Denis with flashing eyes . 
And what , sir , she demanded , may be the meaning of all this ? God knows , returned Denis gloomily . 
I am a prisoner in this house , which seems full of mad people . 
More I know not and nothing do I understand . 
And pray how came you here ? she asked . 
He told her as briefly as he could . 
She stood silent for a little , and he could see her lips tremble and her tearless eyes burn with a feverish lustre . 
Then she pressed her forehead in both hands . 
Three months ago a young captain began to stand near me every day in church . 
Since that time he has written many . 
He was so anxious to speak with me , poor fellow ! and kept asking me to leave the door open some evening that we might have two words upon the stair . 
For he knew how much my uncle trusted me . 
She gave something like a sob at that , and it was a moment before she could go on . 
My uncle is a hard man , but he is very shrewd , she said at last . 
He has performed many feats in war , and was a great person at court , and much trusted by Queen Isabeau in old days . 
When he had finished , he gave it back to me with great politeness . 
It contained another request to have the door left open and this has been the ruin of us all . 
But truly I had not looked for such a shameful punishment as this ! I could not think that God would let a girl be so disgraced before a young man . 
And now I have told you all and I can scarcely hope that you will not despise me . 
Denis made her a respectful inclination . 
Madam , he said , you have honoured me by your confidence . 
It remains for me to prove that I am not unworthy of the honour . 
Is Messire de Maletroit at hand ? I believe he is writing in the salle without , she answered . 
May I lead you thither , madam ? asked Denis , offering his hand with his most courtly bearing . 
The Sire de Maletroit rose to meet them with an ironical obeisance . 
Blanche looked at him with gratitude in her eyes but the old gentleman only smiled and smiled , until his smile grew positively sickening to Denis . 
I am afraid , he said , Monsieur de Beaulieu , that you do not perfectly understand the choice I have to offer you . 
Follow me , I beseech you , to this window . 
And he led the way to one of the large windows which stood open on the night . 
You observe , he went on , there is an iron ring in the upper masonry , and reeved through that , a very efficacious rope . 
Now , mark my words if you should find your disinclination to my niece's person insurmountable , I shall have you hanged out of this window before sunrise . 
I shall only proceed to such an extremity with the greatest regret , you may believe me . 
For it is not at all your death that I desire , but my niece's establishment in life . 
At the same time , it must come to that if you prove obstinate . 
Neither my niece nor you , nor my own private feelings , move me at all in this matter . 
I believe there are other ways of settling such imbroglios among gentlemen , said Denis . 
You wear a sword , and I hear you have used it with distinction . 
The Sire de Maletroit made a signal to the chaplain , who crossed the room with long silent strides and raised the arras over the third of the three doors . 
It was only a moment before he let it fall again but Denis had time to see a dusky passage full of armed men . 
When I was a little younger , I should have been delighted to honour you , Monsieur de Beaulieu , said Sire Alain but I am now too old . 
Faithful retainers are the sinews of age , and I must employ the strength I have . 
This is one of the hardest things to swallow as a man grows up in years but with a little patience , even this becomes habitual . 
No haste ! he added , holding up his hand , as he saw a dangerous look come into Denis de Beaulieu's face . 
If your mind revolts against hanging , it will be time enough two hours hence to throw yourself out of the window or upon the pikes of my retainers . 
Two hours of life are always two hours . 
A great many things may turn up in even as little a while as that . 
And , besides , if I understand her appearance , my niece has still something to say to you . 
You will not disfigure your last hours by a want of politeness to a lady ? Denis looked at Blanche , and she made him an imploring gesture . 
Denis again glanced at the girl , who seemed to beseech him to agree . 
I give you my word of honour , he said . 
No sooner were they alone than Blanche advanced towards Denis with her hands extended . 
Her face was flushed and excited , and her eyes shone with tears . 
You shall not die ! she cried , you shall marry me after all . 
You seem to think , madam , replied Denis , that I stand much in fear of death . 
Oh no , no , she said , I see you are no poltroon . 
It is for my own sake I could not bear to have you slain for such a scruple . 
I am afraid , returned Denis , that you underrate the difficulty , madam . 
What you may be too generous to refuse , I may be too proud to accept . 
In a moment of noble feeling towards me , you forgot what you perhaps owe to others . 
He had the decency to keep his eyes upon the floor as he said this , and after he had finished , so as not to spy upon her confusion . 
She stood silent for a moment , then walked suddenly away , and falling on her uncle's chair , fairly burst out sobbing . 
Denis was in the acme of embarrassment . 
He looked round , as if to seek for inspiration , and seeing a stool , plumped down upon it for something to do . 
There he sat , playing with the guard of his rapier , and wishing himself dead a thousand times over , and buried in the nastiest kitchen heap in France . 
His eyes wandered round the apartment , but found nothing to arrest them . 
The regular sobs of Blanche de Maletroit measured out the time like the ticking of a clock . 
Oftener and oftener , as the time went on , did his glance settle on the girl herself . 
Her face was bowed forward and covered with her hands , and she was shaken at intervals by the convulsive hiccup of grief . 
Her hands were like her uncle's but they were more in place at the end of her young arms , and looked infinitely soft and caressing . 
He remembered how her blue eyes had shone upon him , full of anger , pity , and innocence . 
And the more he dwelt on her perfections , the uglier death looked , and the more deeply was he smitten with penitence at her continued tears . 
Suddenly a hoarse and ragged peal of cockcrow rose to their ears from the dark valley below the windows . 
And this shattering noise in the silence of all around was like a light in a dark place , and shook them both out of their reflections . 
Alas , can I do nothing to help you ? she said , looking up . 
Madam , replied Denis , with a fine irrelevancy , if I have said anything to wound you , believe me , it was for your own sake and not for mine . 
She thanked him with a tearful look . 
I feel your position cruelly , he went on . 
The world has been bitter hard on you . 
Your uncle is a disgrace to mankind . 
Believe me , madam , there is no young gentleman in all France but would be glad of my opportunity , to die in doing you a momentary service . 
I know already that you can be very brave and generous , she answered . 
What I WANT to know is whether I can serve you now or afterwards , she added , with a quaver . 
Most certainly , he answered with a smile . 
You are very gallant , she added , with a yet deeper sadness . 
and it somehow pains me . 
But draw nearer , if you please and if you find anything to say to me , you will at least make certain of a very friendly listener . 
Spare me , in my last moments , the spectacle of what I cannot cure even with the sacrifice of my life . 
I am very selfish , answered Blanche . 
I will be braver , Monsieur de Beaulieu , for your sake . 
But think if I can do you no kindness in the future if you have no friends to whom I could carry your adieux . 
Charge me as heavily as you can every burden will lighten , by so little , the invaluable gratitude I owe you . 
Put it in my power to do something more for you than weep . 
My mother is married again , and has a young family to care for . 
My brother Guichard will inherit my fiefs and if I am not in error , that will content him amply for my death . 
Life is a little vapour that passeth away , as we are told by those in holy orders . 
When a man is in a fair way and sees all life open in front of him , he seems to himself to make a very important figure in the world . 
It is not wonderful if his head is turned for a time . 
But once he is dead , were he as brave as Hercules or as wise as Solomon , he is soon forgotten . 
I have few friends just now , and once I am dead I shall have none . 
Ah , Monsieur de Beaulieu ! she exclaimed , you forget Blanche de Maletroit . 
You have a sweet nature , madam , and you are pleased to estimate a little service far beyond its worth . 
It is not that , she answered . 
You mistake me if you think I am so easily touched by my own concerns . 
I say so , because you are the noblest man I have ever met because I recognise in you a spirit that would have made even a common person famous in the land . 
And yet here I die in a mouse trap with no more noise about it than my own squeaking , answered he . 
A look of pain crossed her face , and she was silent for a little while . 
Then a fight came into her eyes , and with a smile she spoke again . 
I cannot have my champion think meanly of himself . 
Any one who gives his life for another will be met in Paradise by all the heralds and angels of the Lord God . 
And you have no such cause to hang your head . 
Pray , do you think me beautiful ? she asked , with a deep flush . 
Indeed , madam , I do , he said . 
I am glad of that , she answered heartily . 
There is nothing that should set a person higher in his own esteem and we women would prize nothing more dearly . 
You are very good , he said but you cannot make me forget that I was asked in pity and not for love . 
I am not so sure of that , she replied , holding down her head . 
Hear me to an end , Monsieur de Beaulieu . 
If you had seen yourself , and how noble you looked , you would pity rather than despise me . 
I would not , believe me , being nobly born , weary you with importunities into consent . 
Denis smiled a little bitterly . 
It is a small love , he said , that shies at a little pride . 
She made no answer , although she probably had her own thoughts . 
Come hither to the window , he said , with a sigh . 
And indeed the dawn was already beginning . 
The hollow of the sky was full of essential daylight , colourless and clean and the valley underneath was flooded with a grey reflection . 
A few thin vapours clung in the coves of the forest or lay along the winding course of the river . 
The scene disengaged a surprising effect of stillness , which was hardly interrupted when the cocks began once more to crow among the steadings . 
Perhaps the same fellow who had made so horrid a clangour in the darkness not half an hour before , now sent up the merriest cheer to greet the coming day . 
A little wind went bustling and eddying among the tree tops underneath the windows . 
And still the daylight kept flooding insensibly out of the east , which was soon to grow incandescent and cast up that red hot cannon ball , the rising sun . 
Denis looked out over all this with a bit of a shiver . 
He had taken her hand , and retained it in his almost unconsciously . 
Blanche , he said , with a swift , uncertain , passionate utterance , you have seen whether I fear death . 
You must know well enough that I would as gladly leap out of that window into the empty air as lay a finger on you without your free and full consent . 
After all that you have heard ? she whispered , leaning towards him with her lips and eyes . 
I have heard nothing , he replied . 
The captain's name was Florimond de Champdivers , she said in his ear . 
I did not hear it , he answered , taking her supple body in his arms and covering her wet face with kisses . 
A melodious chirping was audible behind , followed by a beautiful chuckle , and the voice of Messire de Maletroit wished his new nephew a good morning . 
PROVIDENCE AND THE GUITAR CHAPTER I Monsieur Leon Berthelini had a great care of his appearance , and sedulously suited his deportment to the costume of the hour . 
He affected something Spanish in his air , and something of the bandit , with a flavour of Rembrandt at home . 
If he had worn the clothes of the period you would have set him down for a hitherto undiscovered hybrid between the barber , the innkeeper , and the affable dispensing chemist . 
I am of opinion that M. Berthelini was nearing forty . 
But he had a boy's heart , gloried in his finery , and walked through life like a child in a perpetual dramatic performance . 
If he were not Almaviva after all , it was not for lack of making believe . 
And he enjoyed the artist's compensation . 
If he were not really Almaviva , he was sometimes just as happy as though he were . 
He , indeed , swam like a kite on a fair wind , high above earthly troubles . 
Detonations of temper were not unfrequent in the zones he travelled but sulky fogs and tearful depressions were there alike unknown . 
A well delivered blow upon a table , or a noble attitude , imitated from Melingne or Frederic , relieved his irritation like a vengeance . 
Berthelini paused upon the threshold with a painful premonition . 
In some former state , it seemed to him , he had visited a hostelry that smelt not otherwise , and been ill received . 
Sir , I salute you . 
May I inquire what is your charge for artists ? inquired Berthelini , with a courtesy at once splendid and insinuating . 
For artists ? said the landlord . 
His countenance fell and the smile of welcome disappeared . 
Oh , artists ! he added brutally four francs a day . 
And he turned his back upon these inconsiderable customers . 
Accustomed as he was to the rubs of his profession , Berthelini was unpleasantly affected by the landlord's manner . 
Elvira , said he to his wife , mark my words Castel le Gachis is a tragic folly . 
Wait till we see what we take , replied Elvira . 
We shall take nothing , returned Berthelini we shall feed upon insults . 
I have an eye , Elvira I have a spirit of divination and this place is accursed . 
The landlord has been discourteous , the Commissary will be brutal , the audience will be sordid and uproarious , and you will take a cold upon your throat . 
We have been besotted enough to come the die is cast it will be a second Sedan . 
, but because it had been the scene of their most sad reverses . 
To mention the name of Sedan was for the Berthelinis to dip the brush in earthquake and eclipse . 
Count Almaviva slouched his hat with a gesture expressive of despair , and even Elvira felt as if ill fortune had been personally invoked . 
Let us ask for breakfast , said she , with a woman's tact . 
The Commissary of Police of Castel le Gachis was a large red Commissary , pimpled , and subject to a strong cutaneous transpiration . 
I have repeated the name of his office because he was so very much more a Commissary than a man . 
The spirit of his dignity had entered into him . 
He carried his corporation as if it were something official . 
His office was a den , whence passers by could hear rude accents laying down , not the law , but the good pleasure of the Commissary . 
Six several times in the course of the day did M. Berthelini hurry thither in quest of the requisite permission for his evening's entertainment six several times he found the official was abroad . 
Idle children attached themselves to his footsteps , and trotted after him back and forward between the hotel and the office . 
Berthelini threaded his way through the market stalls and baskets , and accosted the dignitary with a bow which was a triumph of the histrionic art . 
I have the honour , he asked , of meeting M. le Commissaire ? The Commissary was affected by the nobility of his address . 
He excelled Leon in the depth if not in the airy grace of his salutation . 
At the word artist , the Commissary had replaced his hat with the air of a person who , having condescended too far , should suddenly remember the duties of his rank . 
Go , go , said he , I am busy I am measuring butter . 
Heathen Jew ! thought Leon . 
Permit me , sir , he resumed aloud . 
I have gone six times already Put up your bills if you choose , interrupted the Commissary . 
In an hour or so I will examine your papers at the office . 
But now go I am busy . 
Measuring butter ! thought Berthelini . 
He is like Madame Benoiton , thought Leon , Fichu Commissaire ! And just then he met the man face to face . 
Here , sir , said he , are my papers . 
Will you be pleased to verify ? But the Commissary was now intent upon dinner . 
No use , he replied , no use I am busy I am quite satisfied . 
Fichu Commissaire ! thought Leon . 
CHAPTER II The audience was pretty large and the proprietor of the cafe made a good thing of it in beer . 
But the Berthelinis exerted themselves in vain . 
Indeed his play with that instrument was as good as a whole romantic drama it was so dashing , so florid , and so cavalier . 
Alas ! when she went round with the tambourine , the golden youth of Castel le Gachis turned from her coldly . 
Here and there a single halfpenny was forthcoming the net result of a collection never exceeded half a franc and the Maire himself , after seven different applications , had contributed exactly twopence . 
A certain chill began to settle upon the artists themselves it seemed as if they were singing to slugs Apollo himself might have lost heart with such an audience . 
It was the Commissary , followed by the Garde Champetre . 
The undaunted Berthelini still continued to proclaim , Y a des honnetes gens partout ! But now the sentiment produced an audible titter among the audience . 
Berthelini wondered why he did not know the antecedents of the Garde Champetre he had never heard of a little story about postage stamps . 
But the public knew all about the postage stamps and enjoyed the coincidence hugely . 
The eyes of both were directed upon Berthelini , who persisted in his statement . 
Y a des honnetes gens partout , he was just chanting for the twentieth time when up got the Commissary upon his feet and waved brutally to the singer with his cane . 
Is it me you want ? inquired Leon , stopping in his song . 
It is you , replied the potentate . 
Fichu Commissaire ! thought Leon , and he descended from the stage and made his way to the functionary . 
Permit me to remind you Come , come , sir ! said the Commissary , I desire no explanations . 
I care nothing about what you desire , returned the singer . 
I choose to give them , and I will not be gagged . 
I am an artist , sir , a distinction that you cannot comprehend . 
I received your permission and stand here upon the strength of it interfere with me who dare . 
You have not got my signature , I tell you , cried the Commissary . 
The Commissary played up to him in the character of tyrant and as the one leaned farther forward , the other leaned farther back majesty confronting fury . 
The audience had transferred their attention to this new performance , and listened with that silent gravity common to all Frenchmen in the neighbourhood of the Police . 
Elvira had sat down , she was used to these distractions , and it was rather melancholy than fear that now oppressed her . 
Another word , cried the Commissary , and I arrest you . 
Arrest me ? shouted Leon . 
I defy you ! I am the Commissary of Police , said the official . 
Leon commanded his feelings , and replied , with great delicacy of innuendo So it would appear . 
There was nothing for it but to obey . 
Leon did so with a proper pantomime of indifference , but it was a leek to eat , and there was no denying it . 
The Maire had slipped out and was already waiting at the Commissary's door . 
Now the Maire , in France , is the refuge of the oppressed . 
He stands between his people and the boisterous rigours of the Police . 
He can sometimes understand what is said to him he is not always puffed up beyond measure by his dignity . 
'Tis a thing worth the knowledge of travellers . 
The Maire of Castel le Gachis , although inaccessible to the charms of music as retailed by the Berthelinis , had no hesitation whatever as to the rights of the matter . 
He instantly fell foul of the Commissary in very high terms , and the Commissary , pricked by this humiliation , accepted battle on the point of fact . 
He had been out argued , but he was still the Maire . 
And so , turning from his interlocutor , he briefly but kindly recommended Leon to get back instanter to his concert . 
It is already growing late , he added . 
Leon did not wait to be told twice . 
He returned to the Cafe of the Triumphs of the Plough with all expedition . 
What was it ? she asked languidly . 
But Leon did not answer . 
He was looking round him on the scene of defeat . 
Scarce a score of listeners remained , and these of the least promising sort . 
The minute hand of the clock was already climbing upward towards eleven . 
It's a lost battle , said he , and then taking up the money box he turned it out . 
Three francs seventy five ! he cried , as against four of board and six of railway fares and no time for the tombola ! Elvira , this is Waterloo . 
And he sat down and passed both hands desperately among his curls . 
O Fichu Commissaire ! he cried , Fichu Commissaire ! Let us get the things together and be off , returned Elvira . 
We might try another song , but there is not six halfpence in the room . 
Don't imagine things ! exclaimed Elvira , with a shudder . 
And with that they set to work on their preparations . 
As they crossed the market place the church bell rang out eleven . 
It was a dark , mild night , and there was no one in the streets . 
It is all very fine , said Leon but I have a presentiment . 
The night is not yet done . 
CHAPTER III The Black Head presented not a single chink of light upon the street , and the carriage gate was closed . 
This is unprecedented , observed Leon . 
An inn closed by five minutes after eleven ! And there were several commercial travellers in the cafe up to a late hour . 
Elvira , my heart misgives me . 
Let us ring the bell . 
The bell had a potent note and being swung under the arch it filled the house from top to bottom with surly , clanging reverberations . 
What's all this ? cried the tragic host through the spars of the gate . 
You cannot get in at this hour , returned the man . 
This is no thieves' tavern , for mohocks and night rakes and organ grinders . 
Brute ! cried Elvira , for the organ grinders touched her home . 
Then I demand my baggage , said Leon , with unabated dignity . 
I know nothing of your baggage , replied the landlord . 
You detain my baggage ? You dare to detain my baggage ? cried the singer . 
Who are you ? returned the landlord . 
It is dark I cannot recognise you . 
Very well , then you detain my baggage , concluded Leon . 
You shall smart for this . 
Elvira , said he , I have now a duty in life . 
I shall destroy that man as Eugene Sue destroyed the concierge . 
Let us come at once to the Gendarmerie and begin our vengeance . 
He picked up the guitar case , which had been propped against the wall , and they set forth through the silent and ill lighted town with burning hearts . 
Very well , said Leon , then we shall go to the Commissary . 
Thither they went the office was closed and dark but the house was close by , and Leon was soon swinging the bell like a madman . 
The Commissary's wife appeared at a window . 
She was a thread paper creature , and informed them that the Commissary had not yet come home . 
Is he at the Maire's ? demanded Leon . 
She thought that was not unlikely . 
Where is the Maire's house ? he asked . 
And she gave him some rather vague information on that point . 
Stay you here , Elvira , said Leon , lest I should miss him by the way . 
If , when I return , I find you here no longer , I shall follow at once to the Black Head . 
And he set out to find the Maire's . 
It took him some ten minutes wandering among blind lanes , and when he arrived it was already half an hour past midnight . 
Leon took the bell pull in both hands , and danced furiously upon the side walk . 
The bell itself was just upon the other side of the wall , it responded to his activity , and scattered an alarming clangour far and wide into the night . 
A window was thrown open in a house across the street , and a voice inquired the cause of this untimely uproar . 
I wish the Maire , said Leon . 
He has been in bed this hour , returned the voice . 
He must get up again , retorted Leon , and he was for tackling the bell pull once more . 
You will never make him hear , responded the voice . 
The garden is of great extent , the house is at the farther end , and both the Maire and his housekeeper are deaf . 
Aha ! said Leon , pausing . 
The Maire is deaf , is he ? That explains . 
And he thought of the evening's concert with a momentary feeling of relief . 
You would only keep me awake . 
Thank you , neighbour , replied the singer . 
And he made off again at his best pace for the Commissary's . 
Elvira was still walking to and fro before the door . 
He has not come ? asked Leon . 
Not he , she replied . 
I am sure our man's inside . 
Let me see the guitar case . 
I shall lay this siege in form , Elvira I am angry I am indignant I am truculently inclined but I thank my Maker I have still a sense of fun . 
The unjust judge shall be importuned in a serenade , Elvira . 
Set him up and set him up . 
He had the case opened by this time , struck a few chords , and fell into an attitude which was irresistibly Spanish . 
Now , he continued , feel your voice . 
The stones of Castel le Gachis thrilled at this audacious innovation . 
All the echoes repeated the functionary's name . 
It was more like an entr'acte in a farce of Moliere's than a passage of real life in Castel le Gachis . 
He was beside himself with rage . 
A little more serenading , and it was clear he would be better acquainted with the apoplexy . 
I scorn to reproduce his language he touched upon too many serious topics by the way for a quiet story teller . 
Even what she had heard disquieted her conscience and next day she said she scarcely reckoned as a maiden lady any longer . 
Leon tried to explain his predicament , but he received nothing but threats of arrest by way of answer . 
If I come down to you ! cried the Commissary . 
Aye , said Leon , do ! I will not ! cried the Commissary . 
You dare not ! answered Leon . 
At that the Commissary closed his window . 
All is over , said the singer . 
The serenade was perhaps ill judged . 
These boors have no sense of humour . 
Let us get away from here , said Elvira , with a shiver . 
All these people looking it is so rude and so brutal . 
And then giving way once more to passion Brutes ! she cried aloud to the candle lit spectators brutes ! brutes ! brutes ! Sauve qui peut , said Leon . 
CHAPTER IV To the west of Castel le Gachis four rows of venerable lime trees formed , in this starry night , a twilit avenue with two side aisles of pitch darkness . 
Here and there stone benches were disposed between the trunks . 
There was not a breath of wind a heavy atmosphere of perfume hung about the alleys and every leaf stood stock still upon its twig . 
Hither , after vainly knocking at an inn or two , the Berthelinis came at length to pass the night . 
After an amiable contention , Leon insisted on giving his coat to Elvira , and they sat down together on the first bench in silence . 
It is warm it is starry I have matches and tobacco . 
Do not let us exaggerate , Elvira the experience is positively charming . 
I feel a glow within me I am born again . 
This is the poetry of life . 
Think of Cooper's novels , my dear . 
Leon , she said fiercely , how can you talk such wicked , infamous nonsense ? To pass all night out of doors it is like a nightmare ! We shall die . 
You suffer yourself to be led away , he replied soothingly . 
It is not unpleasant here only you brood . 
Come , now , let us repeat a scene . 
Hold your tongue , she cried , or you will drive me mad ! Will nothing solemnise you not even this hideous situation ? Oh , hideous ! objected Leon . 
Hideous is not the word . 
Why , where would you be ? 'Dites , la jeune belle , ou voulez vous aller ? he carolled . 
Well , now , he went on , opening the guitar case , there's another idea for you sing . 
Sing 'Dites , la jeune belle ! It will compose your spirits , Elvira , I am sure . 
And without waiting an answer he began to strum the symphony . 
The first chords awoke a young man who was lying asleep upon a neighbouring bench . 
Hullo ! cried the young man , who are you ? Under which king , Bezonian ? declaimed the artist . 
Speak or die ! Or if it was not exactly that , it was something to much the same purpose from a French tragedy . 
The young man drew near in the twilight . 
Are you camping out here too ? he asked , with a strong English accent . 
I'm not sorry for company . 
Luckily , it's jolly weather , he concluded . 
You hear that , Elvira , said Leon . 
Madame Berthelini , he went on , is ridiculously affected by this trifling occurrence . 
Yes , returned the undergraduate , sitting down , it's rather nice than otherwise when once you're used to it only it's devilish difficult to get washed . 
I like the fresh air and these stars and things . 
Aha ! said Leon , Monsieur is an artist . 
An artist ? returned the other , with a blank stare . 
Not if I know it ! Pardon me , said the actor . 
What you said this moment about the orbs of heaven Oh , nonsense ! cried the Englishman . 
A fellow may admire the stars and be anything he likes . 
You have an artist's nature , however , Mr. I beg your pardon may I , without indiscretion , inquire your name ? asked Leon . 
My name is Stubbs , replied the Englishman . 
I thank you , returned Leon . 
Mine is Berthelini Leon Berthelini , ex artist of the theatres of Montrouge , Belleville , and Montmartre . 
Humble as you see me , I have created with applause more than one important ROLE . 
The Press were unanimous in praise of my Howling Devil of the Mountains , in the piece of the same name . 
Madame , whom I now present to you , is herself an artist , and I must not omit to state , a better artist than her husband . 
She also is a creator she created nearly twenty successful songs at one of the principal Parisian music halls . 
But , to continue , I was saying you had an artist's nature , Monsieur Stubbs , and you must permit me to be a judge in such a question . 
I trust you will not falsify your instincts let me beseech you to follow the career of an artist . 
Thank you , returned Stubbs , with a chuckle . 
I'm going to be a banker . 
No , said Leon , do not say so . 
A man with such a nature as yours should not derogate so far . 
What he said was different . 
I thought you said you were an actor ? I certainly did so , replied Leon . 
I am one , or , alas ! I was . 
And so you want me to be an actor , do you ? continued the undergraduate . 
Why , man , I could never so much as learn the stuff my memory's like a sieve and as for acting , I've no more idea than a cat . 
The stage is not the only course , said Leon . 
Be a sculptor , be a dancer , be a poet or a novelist follow your heart , in short , and do some thorough work before you die . 
And do you call all these things ART ? inquired Stubbs . 
Why , certainly ! returned Leon . 
Are they not all branches ? Oh ! I didn't know , replied the Englishman . 
I thought an artist meant a fellow who painted . 
The singer stared at him in some surprise . 
It is the difference of language , he said at last . 
This Tower of Babel , when shall we have paid for it ? If I could speak English you would follow me more readily . 
Between you and me , I don't believe I should , replied the other . 
You seem to have thought a devil of a lot about this business . 
I'm not intellectual I have no end of trouble to scrape through my exams . 
Leon had a perception that the understanding was incomplete . 
And so you travel on foot ? he continued . 
They told me it was no good up here even the guide book said so but I don't know what they meant . 
I think it is deuced pretty upon my word , I do . 
At this moment , in the most unexpected manner , Elvira burst into tears . 
My voice ! she cried . 
Leon , if I stay here longer I shall lose my voice ! You shall not stay another moment , cried the actor . 
If I have to beat in a door , if I have to burn the town , I shall find you shelter . 
With that he replaced the guitar , and comforting her with some caresses , drew her arm through his . 
Monsieur Stubbs , said he , taking of his hat , the reception I offer you is rather problematical but let me beseech you to give us the pleasure of your society . 
You are a little embarrassed for the moment you must , indeed , permit me to advance what may be necessary . 
I ask it as a favour we must not part so soon after having met so strangely . 
Oh , come , you know , said Stubbs , I can't let a fellow like you And there he paused , feeling somehow or other on a wrong tack . 
I do not wish to employ menaces , continued Leon , with a smile but if you refuse , indeed I shall not take it kindly . 
I don't quite see my way out of it , thought the undergraduate and then , after a pause , he said , aloud and ungraciously enough , All right . 
I I'm very much obliged , of course . 
And he proceeded to follow them , thinking in his heart , But it's bad form , all the same , to force an obligation on a fellow . 
CHAPTER V Leon strode ahead as if he knew exactly where he was going the sobs of Madame were still faintly audible , and no one uttered a word . 
A dog barked furiously in a courtyard as they went by then the church clock struck two , and many domestic clocks followed or preceded it in piping tones . 
And just then Berthelini spied a light . 
It burned in a small house on the outskirts of the town , and thither the party now directed their steps . 
It is always a chance , said Leon . 
One of these had recently undergone some change . 
An enormous window , looking towards the north , had been effected in the wall and roof , and Leon began to hope it was a studio . 
If it's only a painter , he said with a chuckle , ten to one we get as good a welcome as we want . 
I thought painters were principally poor , said Stubbs . 
Ah ! cried Leon , you do not know the world as I do . 
The poorer the better for us ! And the trio advanced into the turnip field . 
The sound of a voice now became audible and the trespassers paused to listen . 
It was pitched in a high , angry key , but had still a good , full , and masculine note in it . 
Suddenly another voice joined in . 
This time it was a woman's and if the man were angry , the woman was incensed to the degree of fury . 
If Abstract Bones and Sepulchre were to be endowed with the gift of speech , thus , and not otherwise , would it discourse . 
, but the habit of childhood prevailed , and he crossed himself devoutly . 
He had met several women in his career . 
It was obvious that his instinct had not deceived him , for the male voice broke forth instantly in a towering passion . 
The undergraduate , who had not understood the significance of the woman's contribution , pricked up his ears at the change upon the man . 
There's going to be a free fight , he opined . 
There was another retort from the woman , still calm but a little higher . 
Hysterics ? asked Leon of his wife . 
Is that the stage direction ? How should I know ? returned Elvira , somewhat tartly . 
Oh , woman , woman ! said Leon , beginning to open the guitar case . 
It is one of the burdens of my life , Monsieur Stubbs they support each other they always pretend there is no system they say it's nature . 
Even Madame Berthelini , who is a dramatic artist ! You are heartless , Leon , said Elvira that woman is in trouble . 
And the man , my angel ? inquired Berthelini , passing the ribbon of his guitar . 
And the man , M'AMOUR ? He is a man , she answered . 
You hear that ? said Leon to Stubbs . 
It is not too late for you . 
And now , he continued , what are we to give them ? Are you going to sing ? asked Stubbs . 
I am a troubadour , replied Leon . 
I claim a welcome by and for my art . 
If I were a banker could I do as much ? Well , you wouldn't need , you know , answered the undergraduate . 
Egad , said Leon , but that's true . 
Elvira , that is true . 
Of course it is , she replied . 
Did you not know it ? My dear , answered Leon impressively , I know nothing but what is agreeable . 
Even my knowledge of life is a work of art superiorly composed . 
But what are we to give them ? It should be something appropriate . 
Visions of Let dogs delight passed through the undergraduate's mind but it occurred to him that the poetry was English and that he did not know the air . 
Hence he contributed no suggestion . 
Something about our houselessness , said Elvira . 
I have it , cried Leon . 
Leon and the guitar were equal to the situation . 
Elvira , on the other hand , was preoccupied about their reception and , as for Stubbs , he considered the whole affair in the light of a broad joke . 
Know you the lair of May , the lovely month ? went the three voices in the turnip field . 
What is all this ? cried the man . 
CHAPTER VI Leon had his hat in his hand at once . 
He came forward with his customary grace it was a moment which would have earned him a round of cheering on the stage . 
Elvira and Stubbs advanced behind him , like a couple of Admetus's sheep following the god Apollo . 
Sir , said Leon , the hour is unpardonably late , and our little serenade has the air of an impertinence . 
Believe me , sir , it is an appeal . 
Monsieur is an artist , I perceive . 
We are here three artists benighted and without shelter , one a woman a delicate woman in evening dress in an interesting situation . 
This will not fail to touch the woman's heart of Madame , whom I perceive indistinctly behind Monsieur her husband , and whose face speaks eloquently of a well regulated mind . 
The two , as by a tacit consent , drew back from the door . 
Come in , said the man . 
Entrez , Madame , said the woman . 
The door opened directly upon the kitchen of the house , which was to all appearance the only sitting room . 
Leon walked up to the pictures and represented the part of a connoisseur before each in turn , with his usual dramatic insight and force . 
The master of the house , as if irresistibly attracted , followed him from canvas to canvas with the lamp . 
You should see them by daylight , said the artist . 
I promise myself that pleasure , said Leon . 
You possess , sir , if you will permit me an observation , the art of composition to a T. You are very good , returned the other . 
But should you not draw nearer to the fire ? With all my heart , said Leon . 
And the whole party was soon gathered at the table over a hasty and not an elegant cold supper , washed down with the least of small wines . 
Nobody liked the meal , but nobody complained they put a good face upon it , one and all , and made a great clattering of knives and forks . 
Yet it was to be noted that they never addressed a word to each other , nor so much as suffered their eyes to meet . 
The interrupted skirmish still survived in ill feeling and the instant the guests departed it would break forth again as bitterly as ever . 
But all the time she was not aware of what was passing , and saw the painter's wife studying her with looks between contempt and envy . 
It occurred to Leon that his constitution demanded the use of some tobacco and he undid his fingers from Elvira's in order to roll a cigarette . 
It was gently done , and he took care that his indulgence should in no other way disturb his wife's position . 
But it seemed to catch the eye of the painter's wife with a special significancy . 
She looked straight before her for an instant , and then , with a swift and stealthy movement , took hold of her husband's hand below the table . 
Alas ! she might have spared herself the dexterity . 
If it had not been rather amiable , it would have been absurdly droll . 
His wife at once withdrew her touch but it was plain she had to exert some force . 
Thereupon the young man coloured and looked for a moment beautiful . 
Leon and Elvira both observed the byplay , and a shock passed from one to the other for they were inveterate match makers , especially between those who were already married . 
I beg your pardon , said Leon suddenly . 
I see no use in pretending . 
Before we came in here we heard sounds indicating if I may so express myself an imperfect harmony . 
But the woman was beforehand . 
It is quite true , she said . 
I see no cause to be ashamed . 
If my husband is mad I shall at least do my utmost to prevent the consequences . 
done everything in the world to please him . 
I doubt if there were ever a more embarrassed company at a table every one looked like a fool and the husband like the biggest . 
The art of Monsieur , however , said Elvira , breaking the silence , is not wanting in distinction . 
It has this distinction , said the wife , that nobody will buy it . 
I should have supposed a clerkship began Stubbs . 
Art is Art , swept in Leon . 
It is the beautiful , the divine it is the spirit of the world , and the pride of life . 
But And the actor paused . 
I'll tell you what it is , said the painter . 
Go ! said his wife . 
I should like to see you ! I was going to say , resumed Stubbs , that a fellow may be a clerk and paint almost as much as he likes . 
I know a fellow in a bank who makes capital water colour sketches he even sold one for seven and six . 
Art is Art , he repeated sadly . 
It is not water colour sketches , nor practising on a piano . 
It is a life to be lived . 
And in the meantime people starve ! observed the woman of the house . 
If that's a life , it is not one for me . 
It may come to nothing , but let's try . 
I am very willing , replied the young woman and she proceeded to light a candle . 
This way if you please . 
And she led Elvira upstairs into a bedroom . 
The fact is , said she , sitting down , that my husband cannot paint . 
No more can mine act , replied Elvira . 
I should have thought he could , returned the other he seems clever . 
He is so , and the best of men besides , said Elvira but he cannot act . 
At least he is not a sheer humbug like mine he can at least sing . 
You mistake Leon , returned his wife warmly . 
He does not even pretend to sing he has too fine a taste he does so for a living . 
And , believe me , neither of the men are humbugs . 
They are people with a mission which they cannot carry out . 
Humbug or not , replied the other , you came very near passing the night in the fields and , for my part , I live in terror of starvation . 
I should think it was a man's mission to think twice about his wife . 
Nothing is their mission but to play the fool . 
No but then I may . 
Children change so much , said Elvira , with a sigh . 
Leon has hit the nail , thought Elvira to herself . 
The how was plain enough . 
Life is very sad , said the other it so wastes away under one's fingers . 
I have not found it so , replied Elvira . 
I think the good parts of it last and grow greater every day . 
Frankly , how would you advise me ? Frankly , I would let my husband do what he wished . 
He is obviously a very loving painter you have not yet tried him as a clerk . 
And you know if it were only as the possible father of your children it is as well to keep him at his best . 
He is an excellent fellow , said the wife . 
Castel le Gachis was beginning to send up its smoke against the golden East and the church bell was ringing six . 
Stubbs , on his part , went off into the morning with reflections of his own . 
They are all mad , thought he , all mad but wonderfully decent . 
