It is pleasant to dream that some spot in the extensive tract whose southwestern quarter is here described , may be the heath of that traditionary King of Wessex Lear . 
I would deceive her , And so leave her , But ah ! she is so constant and so kind . 
Overhead the hollow stretch of whitish cloud shutting out the sky was as a tent which had the whole heath for its floor . 
The heaven being spread with this pallid screen and the earth with the darkest vegetation , their meeting line at the horizon was clearly marked . 
Looking upwards , a furze cutter would have been inclined to continue work looking down , he would have decided to finish his faggot and go home . 
The distant rims of the world and of the firmament seemed to be a division in time no less than a division in matter . 
The spot was , indeed , a near relation of night , and when night showed itself an apparent tendency to gravitate together could be perceived in its shades and the scene . 
The sombre stretch of rounds and hollows seemed to rise and meet the evening gloom in pure sympathy , the heath exhaling darkness as rapidly as the heavens precipitated it . 
And so the obscurity in the air and the obscurity in the land closed together in a black fraternization towards which each advanced halfway . 
The place became full of a watchful intentness now for when other things sank blooding to sleep the heath appeared slowly to awake and listen . 
It was a spot which returned upon the memory of those who loved it with an aspect of peculiar and kindly congruity . 
Smiling champaigns of flowers and fruit hardly do this , for they are permanently harmonious only with an existence of better reputation as to its issues than the present . 
Twilight combined with the scenery of Egdon Heath to evolve a thing majestic without severity , impressive without showiness , emphatic in its admonitions , grand in its simplicity . 
Haggard Egdon appealed to a subtler and scarcer instinct , to a more recently learnt emotion , than that which responds to the sort of beauty called charming and fair . 
Indeed , it is a question if the exclusive reign of this orthodox beauty is not approaching its last quarter . 
Colours and beauties so far subdued were , at least , the birthright of all . 
Only in summer days of highest feather did its mood touch the level of gaiety . 
Then Egdon was aroused to reciprocity for the storm was its lover , and the wind its friend . 
As with some persons who have long lived apart , solitude seemed to look out of its countenance . 
It had a lonely face , suggesting tragical possibilities . 
This obscure , obsolete , superseded country figures in Domesday . 
Its condition is recorded therein as that of heathy , furzy , briary wilderness Bruaria . 
Turbaria Bruaria the right of cutting heath turf occurs in charters relating to the district . 
Overgrown with heth and mosse , says Leland of the same dark sweep of country . 
Here at least were intelligible facts regarding landscape far reaching proofs productive of genuine satisfaction . 
The untameable , Ishmaelitish thing that Egdon now was it always had been . 
Civilization was its enemy and ever since the beginning of vegetation its soil had worn the same antique brown dress , the natural and invariable garment of the particular formation . 
In its venerable one coat lay a certain vein of satire on human vanity in clothes . 
A person on a heath in raiment of modern cut and colours has more or less an anomalous look . 
We seem to want the oldest and simplest human clothing where the clothing of the earth is so primitive . 
The great inviolate place had an ancient permanence which the sea cannot claim . 
The sea changed , the fields changed , the rivers , the villages , and the people changed , yet Egdon remained . 
Those surfaces were neither so steep as to be destructible by weather , nor so flat as to be the victims of floods and deposits . 
The above mentioned highway traversed the lower levels of the heath , from one horizon to another . 
Humanity Appears upon the Scene , Hand in Hand with Trouble Along the road walked an old man . 
He was white headed as a mountain , bowed in the shoulders , and faded in general aspect . 
He wore a glazed hat , an ancient boat cloak , and shoes his brass buttons bearing an anchor upon their face . 
In his hand was a silver headed walking stick , which he used as a veritable third leg , perseveringly dotting the ground with its point at every few inches' interval . 
One would have said that he had been , in his day , a naval officer of some sort or other . 
Before him stretched the long , laborious road , dry , empty , and white . 
The old man frequently stretched his eyes ahead to gaze over the tract that he had yet to traverse . 
It was the single atom of life that the scene contained , and it only served to render the general loneliness more evident . 
Its rate of advance was slow , and the old man gained upon it sensibly . 
When he drew nearer he perceived it to be a spring van , ordinary in shape , but singular in colour , this being a lurid red . 
The driver walked beside it and , like his van , he was completely red . 
One dye of that tincture covered his clothes , the cap upon his head , his boots , his face , and his hands . 
He was not temporarily overlaid with the colour it permeated him . 
The old man knew the meaning of this . 
The traveller with the cart was a reddleman a person whose vocation it was to supply farmers with redding for their sheep . 
He is a curious , interesting , and nearly perished link between obsolete forms of life and those which generally prevail . 
The decayed officer , by degrees , came up alongside his fellow wayfarer , and wished him good evening . 
The reddleman turned his head , and replied in sad and occupied tones . 
His eye , which glared so strangely through his stain , was in itself attractive keen as that of a bird of prey , and blue as autumn mist . 
He had neither whisker nor moustache , which allowed the soft curves of the lower part of his face to be apparent . 
His lips were thin , and though , as it seemed , compressed by thought , there was a pleasant twitch at their corners now and then . 
It showed to advantage the good shape of his figure . 
A certain well to do air about the man suggested that he was not poor for his degree . 
They were small , hardy animals , of a breed between Galloway and Exmoor , and were known as heath croppers here . 
Now , as they thus pursued their way , the reddleman occasionally left his companion's side , and , stepping behind the van , looked into its interior through a small window . 
The look was always anxious . 
Possibly these two might not have spoken again till their parting , had it not been for the reddleman's visits to his van . 
When he returned from his fifth time of looking in the old man said , You have something inside there besides your load ? Yes . 
Somebody who wants looking after ? Yes . 
Not long after this a faint cry sounded from the interior . 
The reddleman hastened to the back , looked in , and came away again . 
You have a child there , my man ? No , sir , I have a woman . 
The deuce you have ! Why did she cry out ? Oh , she has fallen asleep , and not being used to traveling , she's uneasy , and keeps dreaming . 
A young woman ? Yes , a young woman . 
That would have interested me forty years ago . 
Perhaps she's your wife ? My wife ! said the other bitterly . 
She's above mating with such as I. But there's no reason why I should tell you about that . 
And there's no reason why you should not . 
What harm can I do to you or to her ? The reddleman looked in the old man's face . 
Well , sir , he said at last , I knew her before today , though perhaps it would have been better if I had not . 
But she's nothing to me , and I am nothing to her and she wouldn't have been in my van if any better carriage had been there to take her . 
Where , may I ask ? At Anglebury . 
I know the town well . 
What was she doing there ? Oh , not much to gossip about . 
However , she's tired to death now , and not at all well , and that's what makes her so restless . 
She dropped off into a nap about an hour ago , and 'twill do her good . 
A nice looking girl , no doubt ? You would say so . 
It is getting too dark for you to see much of her and , more than that , I have no right to allow you . 
Thank God she sleeps so well , I hope she won't wake till she's home . 
Who is she ? One of the neighbourhood ? 'Tis no matter who , excuse me . 
It is not that girl of Blooms End , who has been talked about more or less lately ? If so , I know her and I can guess what has happened . 
Now , sir , I am sorry to say that we shall soon have to part company . 
My ponies are tired , and I have further to go , and I am going to rest them under this bank for an hour . 
The elder traveller nodded his head indifferently , and the reddleman turned his horses and van in upon the turf , saying , Good night . 
The old man replied , and proceeded on his way as before . 
The reddleman watched his form as it diminished to a speck on the road and became absorbed in the thickening films of night . 
Upon this he sat down , leaning his back against the wheel . 
From the interior a low soft breathing came to his ear . 
It appeared to satisfy him , and he musingly surveyed the scene , as if considering the next step that he should take . 
It was the quality of the repose appertaining to the scene . 
This was not the repose of actual stagnation , but the apparent repose of incredible slowness . 
The scene before the reddleman's eyes was a gradual series of ascents from the level of the road backward into the heart of the heath . 
It embraced hillocks , pits , ridges , acclivities , one behind the other , till all was finished by a high hill cutting against the still light sky . 
The traveller's eye hovered about these things for a time , and finally settled upon one noteworthy object up there . 
This bossy projection of earth above its natural level occupied the loftiest ground of the loneliest height that the heath contained . 
Although from the vale it appeared but as a wart on an Atlantean brow , its actual bulk was great . 
It formed the pole and axis of this heathery world . 
As the resting man looked at the barrow he became aware that its summit , hitherto the highest object in the whole prospect round , was surmounted by something higher . 
It rose from the semiglobular mound like a spike from a helmet . 
It seemed a sort of last man among them , musing for a moment before dropping into eternal night with the rest of his race . 
There the form stood , motionless as the hill beneath . 
Above the plain rose the hill , above the hill rose the barrow , and above the barrow rose the figure . 
Above the figure was nothing that could be mapped elsewhere than on a celestial globe . 
Such a perfect , delicate , and necessary finish did the figure give to the dark pile of hills that it seemed to be the only obvious justification of their outline . 
Without it , there was the dome without the lantern with it the architectural demands of the mass were satisfied . 
The scene was strangely homogeneous , in that the vale , the upland , the barrow , and the figure above it amounted only to unity . 
Looking at this or that member of the group was not observing a complete thing , but a fraction of a thing . 
The form was so much like an organic part of the entire motionless structure that to see it move would have impressed the mind as a strange phenomenon . 
Immobility being the chief characteristic of that whole which the person formed portion of , the discontinuance of immobility in any quarter suggested confusion . 
Yet that is what happened . 
The figure perceptibly gave up its fixity , shifted a step or two , and turned round . 
As if alarmed , it descended on the right side of the barrow , with the glide of a water drop down a bud , and then vanished . 
The movement had been sufficient to show more clearly the characteristics of the figure , and that it was a woman's . 
The reason of her sudden displacement now appeared . 
A second followed , then a third , a fourth , a fifth , and ultimately the whole barrow was peopled with burdened figures . 
But they remained , and established themselves and the lonely person who hitherto had been queen of the solitude did not at present seem likely to return . 
They came from a part of the heath a quarter of a mile to the rear , where furze almost exclusively prevailed as a product . 
Every individual was so involved in furze by his method of carrying the faggots that he appeared like a bush on legs till he had thrown them down . 
The party had marched in trail , like a travelling flock of sheep that is to say , the strongest first , the weak and young behind . 
The loads were all laid together , and a pyramid of furze thirty feet in circumference now occupied the crown of the tumulus , which was known as Rainbarrow for many miles round . 
Some made themselves busy with matches , and in selecting the driest tufts of furze , others in loosening the bramble bonds which held the faggots together . 
Others , again , while this was in progress , lifted their eyes and swept the vast expanse of country commanded by their position , now lying nearly obliterated by shade . 
None of its features could be seen now , but the whole made itself felt as a vague stretch of remoteness . 
While the men and lads were building the pile , a change took place in the mass of shade which denoted the distant landscape . 
Red suns and tufts of fire one by one began to arise , flecking the whole country round . 
They were the bonfires of other parishes and hamlets that were engaged in the same sort of commemoration . 
Some were distant , and stood in a dense atmosphere , so that bundles of pale straw like beams radiated around them in the shape of a fan . 
Some were large and near , glowing scarlet red from the shade , like wounds in a black hide . 
Some were Maenades , with winy faces and blown hair . 
These tinctured the silent bosom of the clouds above them and lit up their ephemeral caves , which seemed thenceforth to become scalding caldrons . 
The first tall flame from Rainbarrow sprang into the sky , attracting all eyes that had been fixed on the distant conflagrations back to their own attempt in the same kind . 
Not a plough had ever disturbed a grain of that stubborn soil . 
In the heath's barrenness to the farmer lay its fertility to the historian . 
There had been no obliteration , because there had been no tending . 
It seemed as if the bonfire makers were standing in some radiant upper story of the world , detached from and independent of the dark stretches below . 
It was as if these men and boys had suddenly dived into past ages , and fetched therefrom an hour and deed which had before been familiar with this spot . 
The ashes of the original British pyre which blazed from that summit lay fresh and undisturbed in the barrow beneath their tread . 
The flames from funeral piles long ago kindled there had shone down upon the lowlands as these were shining now . 
Festival fires to Thor and Woden had followed on the same ground and duly had their day . 
Moreover to light a fire is the instinctive and resistant act of man when , at the winter ingress , the curfew is sounded throughout Nature . 
It indicates a spontaneous , Promethean rebelliousness against that fiat that this recurrent season shall bring foul times , cold darkness , misery and death . 
Black chaos comes , and the fettered gods of the earth say , Let there be light . 
The brilliant lights and sooty shades which struggled upon the skin and clothes of the persons standing round caused their lineaments and general contours to be drawn with Dureresque vigour and dash . 
All was unstable quivering as leaves , evanescent as lightning . 
Those whom Nature had depicted as merely quaint became grotesque , the grotesque became preternatural for all was in extremity . 
He stood complacently sunning himself in the heat . 
The beaming sight , and the penetrating warmth , seemed to breed in him a cumulative cheerfulness , which soon amounted to delight . 
A fair stave , Grandfer Cantle but I am afeard 'tis too much for the mouldy weasand of such a old man as you , he said to the wrinkled reveller . 
Dostn't wish th' wast three sixes again , Grandfer , as you was when you first learnt to sing it ? Hey ? said Grandfer Cantle , stopping in his dance . 
Dostn't wish wast young again , I say ? There's a hole in thy poor bellows nowadays seemingly . 
What's the rights of the matter about 'em ? You ought to know , being an understanding man . 
But a little rakish , hey ? I own to it . 
Master Cantle is that , or he's nothing . 
Yet 'tis a gay fault , neigbbour Fairway , that age will cure . 
I heard that they were coming home tonight . 
By this time they must have come . 
What besides ? The next thing is for us to go and wish 'em joy , I suppose ? Well , no . 
No ? Now , I thought we must . 
I met Mis'ess Yeobright , the young bride's aunt , last night , and she told me that her son Clym was coming home a' Christmas . 
Wonderful clever , 'a believe ah , I should like to have all that's under that young man's hair . 
I don't care for her , be jowned if I do , and so I told her . 
'Be jowned if I care for 'ee , I said . 
I had her there hey ? I rather think she had you , said Fairway . 
No , said Grandfer Cantle , his countenance slightly flagging . 
But , Timothy , hearken to me , said the Grandfer earnestly . 
Though known as such a joker , I be an understanding man if you catch me serious , and I am serious now . 
I can tell 'ee lots about the married couple . 
Isn't it spoke like a man , Timothy , and wasn't Mis'ess Yeobright wrong about me ? Yes , it will do . 
I didn't know the two had walked together since last fall , when her aunt forbad the banns . 
How long has this new set to been in mangling then ? Do you know , Humphrey ? Yes , how long ? said Grandfer Cantle smartly , likewise turning to Humphrey . 
Ever since her aunt altered her mind , and said she might have the man after all , replied Humphrey , without removing his eyes from the fire . 
That's why they went away to be married , I count . 
Ah , well , I was at church that day , said Fairway , which was a very curious thing to happen . 
If 'twasn't my name's Simple , said the Grandfer emphatically . 
I ha'n't been there to year and now the winter is a coming on I won't say I shall . 
I not only happened to be there , said Fairway , with a fresh collection of emphasis , but I was sitting in the same pew as Mis'ess Yeobright . 
And though you may not see it as such , it fairly made my blood run cold to hear her . 
Yes , it is a curious thing but it made my blood run cold , for I was close at her elbow . 
The speaker looked round upon the bystanders , now drawing closer to hear him , with his lips gathered tighter than ever in the rigorousness of his descriptive moderation . 
'Tis a serious job to have things happen to 'ee there , said a woman behind . 
'Ye are to declare it , was the parson's words , Fairway continued . 
And then up stood a woman at my side a touching of me . 
'Well , be damned if there isn't Mis'ess Yeobright a standing up , I said to myself . 
Yes , neighbours , though I was in the temple of prayer that's what I said . 
'Tis against my conscience to curse and swear in company , and I hope any woman here will overlook it . 
Still what I did say I did say , and 'twould be a lie if I didn't own it . 
So 'twould , neighbour Fairway . 
And the next thing I heard was , 'I forbid the banns , from her . 
The audience cleared their throats and tossed a few stalks into the fire , not because these deeds were urgent , but to give themselves time to weigh the moral of the story . 
Her nature was to be civil to enemies as well as to friends , and grateful to all the world for letting her remain alive . 
And now the maid have married him just the same , said Humphrey . 
Supposing they were ashamed , I don't see why they shouldn't have done it here right , said a wide spread woman whose stays creaked like shoes whenever she stooped or turned . 
'Tis well to call the neighbours together and to hae a good racket once now and then and it may as well be when there's a wedding as at tide times . 
I don't care for close ways . 
Ah , now , you'd hardly believe it , but I don't care for gay weddings , said Timothy Fairway , his eyes again travelling round . 
I hardly blame Thomasin Yeobright and neighbour Wildeve for doing it quiet , if I must own it . 
A wedding at home means five and six handed reels by the hour and they do a man's legs no good when he's over forty . 
Once at the woman's house you can hardly say nay to being one in a jig , knowing all the time that you be expected to make yourself worth your victuals . 
You be bound to dance at Christmas because 'tis the time o' year you must dance at weddings because 'tis the time o' life . 
At christenings folk will even smuggle in a reel or two , if 'tis no further on than the first or second chiel . 
And this is not naming the songs you've got to sing . 
For my part I like a good hearty funeral as well as anything . 
You've as splendid victuals and drink as at other parties , and even better . 
And it don't wear your legs to stumps in talking over a poor fellow's ways as it do to stand up in hornpipes . 
Nine folks out of ten would own 'twas going too far to dance then , I suppose ? suggested Grandfer Cantle . 
'Tis the only sort of party a staid man can feel safe at after the mug have been round a few times . 
'Tis worse than the poorest do . 
And I shouldn't have cared about the man , though some may say he's good looking . 
To give him his due he's a clever , learned fellow in his way a'most as clever as Clym Yeobright used to be . 
He was brought up to better things than keeping the Quiet Woman . 
An engineer that's what the man was , as we know but he threw away his chance , and so 'a took a public house to live . 
His learning was no use to him at all . 
Very often the case , said Olly , the besom maker . 
True 'tis amazing what a polish the world have been brought to , said Humphrey . 
, in the year four , chimed in Grandfer Cantle brightly , I didn't know no more what the world was like than the commonest man among ye . 
Ah , Humph , well I can mind when I was married how I zid thy father's mark staring me in the face as I went to put down my name . 
He and your mother were the couple married just afore we were and there stood they father's cross with arms stretched out like a great banging scarecrow . 
Ah well , what a day 'twas ! Wildeve is older than Tamsin Yeobright by a good few summers . 
A pretty maid too she is . 
A young woman with a home must be a fool to tear her smock for a man like that . 
A hundred maidens would have had him if he'd asked 'em , said the wide woman . 
Didst ever know a man , neighbour , that no woman at all would marry ? inquired Humphrey . 
I never did , said the turf cutter . 
Nor I , said another . 
Nor I , said Grandfer Cantle . 
Well , now , I did once , said Timothy Fairway , adding more firmness to one of his legs . 
I did know of such a man . 
But only once , mind . 
He gave his throat a thorough rake round , as if it were the duty of every person not to be mistaken through thickness of voice . 
Yes , I knew of such a man , he said . 
And what ghastly gallicrow might the poor fellow have been like , Master Fairway ? asked the turf cutter . 
Well , 'a was neither a deaf man , nor a dumb man , nor a blind man . 
What 'a was I don't say . 
Is he known in these parts ? said Olly Dowden . 
Hardly , said Timothy but I name no name . 
Come , keep the fire up there , youngsters . 
Whatever is Christian Cantle's teeth a chattering for ? said a boy from amid the smoke and shades on the other side of the blaze . 
Be ye a cold , Christian ? A thin jibbering voice was heard to reply , No , not at all . 
Come forward , Christian , and show yourself . 
I didn't know you were here , said Fairway , with a humane look across towards that quarter . 
He was Grandfer Cantle's youngest son . 
What be ye quaking for , Christian ? said the turf cutter kindly . 
What man ? The man no woman will marry . 
Yes , I be he and it makes me afeard , said Christian . 
D'ye think 'twill hurt me ? I shall always say I don't care , and swear to it , though I do care all the while . 
Well , be damned if this isn't the queerest start ever I know'd , said Mr. Fairway . 
I didn't mean you at all . 
There's another in the country , then ! Why did ye reveal yer misfortune , Christian ? 'Twas to be if 'twas , I suppose . 
I can't help it , can I ? He turned upon them his painfully circular eyes , surrounded by concentric lines like targets . 
But 'tis a melancholy thing , and my blood ran cold when you spoke , for I felt there were two poor fellows where I had thought only one . 
'Tis a sad thing for ye , Christian . 
How'st know the women won't hae thee ? I've asked 'em . 
Sure I should never have thought you had the face . 
Not encouraging , I own , said Fairway . 
How old be you , Christian ? Thirty one last tatie digging , Mister Fairway . 
Not a boy not a boy . 
Ah ! But she couldn't tell when , to save her life , except that there was no moon . 
Hey , neighbours , that's bad for him ! Yes , 'tis bad , said Grandfer Cantle , shaking his head . 
Do ye really think it serious , Mister Fairway , that there was no moon ? Yes . 
'No moon , no man . 
'Tis one of the truest sayings ever spit out . 
The boy never comes to anything that's born at new moon . 
A bad job for thee , Christian , that you should have showed your nose then of all days in the month . 
I suppose the moon was terrible full when you were born ? said Christian , with a look of hopeless admiration at Fairway . 
Well , 'a was not new , Mr. Fairway replied , with a disinterested gaze . 
I'd sooner go without drink at Lammas tide than be a man of no moon , continued Christian , in the same shattered recitative . 
'Tis said I be only the rames of a man , and no good for my race at all and I suppose that's the cause o't . 
Well , there's many just as bad as he . 
Wethers must live their time as well as other sheep , poor soul . 
One has been seen lately , too . 
No don't talk about it if 'tis agreeable of ye not to ! 'Twill make my skin crawl when I think of it in bed alone . 
I don't half believe in spirits myself . 
But I think it ghostly enough what I was told . 
'Twas a little boy that zid it . 
What was it like ? no , don't A red one . 
Yes , most ghosts be white but this is as if it had been dipped in blood . 
Christian drew a deep breath without letting it expand his body , and Humphrey said , Where has it been seen ? Not exactly here but in this same heth . 
But 'tisn't a thing to talk about . 
'Twill please the young wife , and that's what I should like to do , for many's the skinful I've had at her hands when she lived with her aunt at Blooms End . 
Hey ? And so we will ! said Grandfer Cantle , turning so briskly that his copper seals swung extravagantly . 
I'm as dry as a kex with biding up here in the wind , and I haven't seen the colour of drink since nammet time today . 
'Tis said that the last brew at the Woman is very pretty drinking . 
Jown it I am up for anything . 
Well , that's what we'll do , said Fairway . 
We'll give 'em a song , an' it please the Lord . 
Perhaps he's coming to bide with his mother a little time , as she must feel lonely now the maid's gone . 
Now , 'tis very odd , but I never feel lonely no , not at all , said Grandfer Cantle . 
Most of the other fires within the wide horizon were also dwindling weak . 
The most enduring of all steady unaltering eyes like Planets signified wood , such as hazel branches , thorn faggots , and stout billets . 
Fires of the last mentioned materials were rare , and though comparatively small in magnitude beside the transient blazes , now began to get the best of them by mere long continuance . 
The great ones had perished , but these remained . 
They occupied the remotest visible positions sky backed summits rising out of rich coppice and plantation districts to the north , where the soil was different , and heath foreign and strange . 
Save one and this was the nearest of any , the moon of the whole shining throng . 
It lay in a direction precisely opposite to that of the little window in the vale below . 
Its nearness was such that , notwithstanding its actual smallness , its glow infinitely transcended theirs . 
To be sure , how near that fire is ! said Fairway . 
I can see a fellow of some sort walking round it . 
Little and good must be said of that fire , surely . 
I can throw a stone there , said the boy . 
And so can I ! said Grandfer Cantle . 
No , no , you can't , my sonnies . 
That fire is not much less than a mile off , for all that 'a seems so near . 
'Tis in the heath , but no furze , said the turf cutter . 
'Tis cleft wood , that's what 'tis , said Timothy Fairway . 
Nothing would burn like that except clean timber . 
And 'tis on the knap afore the old captain's house at Mistover . 
Cap'n Vye has been for a long walk today , and is quite tired out , said Grandfer Cantle , so 'tisn't likely to be he . 
And he would hardly afford good fuel like that , said the wide woman . 
Then it must be his granddaughter , said Fairway . 
Not that a body of her age can want a fire much . 
She is very strange in her ways , living up there by herself , and such things please her , said Susan . 
She's a well favoured maid enough , said Humphrey the furze cutter , especially when she's got one of her dandy gowns on . 
That's true , said Fairway . 
Well , let her bonfire burn an't will . 
Ours is well nigh out by the look o't . 
How dark 'tis now the fire's gone down ! said Christian Cantle , looking behind him with his hare eyes . 
Don't ye think we'd better get home along , neighbours ? The heth isn't haunted , I know but we'd better get home . 
Ah , what was that ? Only the wind , said the turf cutter . 
I don't think Fifth of Novembers ought to be kept up by night except in towns . 
It should be by day in outstep , ill accounted places like this ! Nonsense , Christian . 
She was lifted bodily by Mr. Fairway's arm , which had been flung round her waist before she had become aware of his intention . 
The site of the fire was now merely a circle of ashes flecked with red embers and sparks , the furze having burnt completely away . 
Once within the circle he whirled her round and round in a dance . 
I'll crack thy numskull for thee , you mandy chap ! said Mrs. Nunsuch , as she helplessly danced round with him , her feet playing like drumsticks among the sparks . 
The turf cutter seized old Olly Dowden , and , somewhat more gently , poussetted with her likewise . 
Christian alone stood aloof , uneasily rocking himself as he murmured , They ought not to do it how the vlankers do fly ! 'tis tempting the Wicked one , 'tis . 
What was that ? said one of the lads , stopping . 
Ah where ? said Christian , hastily closing up to the rest . 
The dancers all lessened their speed . 
'Twas behind you , Christian , that I heard it down here . 
Yes 'tis behind me ! Christian said . 
Matthew , Mark , Luke , and John , bless the bed that I lie on four angels guard Hold your tongue . 
What is it ? said Fairway . 
Hoi i i i ! cried a voice from the darkness . 
Halloo o o o ! said Fairway . 
Ought we not to run home as hard as we can , neighbours , as 'tis getting late ? said Christian . 
Not run away from one another , you know run close together , I mean . 
Scrape up a few stray locks of furze , and make a blaze , so that we can see who the man is , said Fairway . 
When the flame arose it revealed a young man in tight raiment , and red from top to toe . 
Is there a track across here to Mis'ess Yeobright's house ? he repeated . 
Ay keep along the path down there . 
I mean a way two horses and a van can travel over ? Well , yes you can get up the vale below here with time . 
The track is rough , but if you've got a light your horses may pick along wi' care . 
Oh , well you can get up , said Fairway . 
What a turn it did give me when I saw him ! he added to the whole group , the reddleman included . 
My meaning is just to say how curious I felt . 
I half thought it 'twas the devil or the red ghost the boy told of . 
It gied me a turn likewise , said Susan Nunsuch , for I had a dream last night of a death's head . 
Don't ye talk o't no more , said Christian . 
If he had a handkerchief over his head he'd look for all the world like the Devil in the picture of the Temptation . 
Well , thank you for telling me , said the young reddleman , smiling faintly . 
And good night t'ye all . 
He withdrew from their sight down the barrow . 
I fancy I've seen that young man's face before , said Humphrey . 
But where , or how , or what his name is , I don't know . 
The reddleman had not been gone more than a few minutes when another person approached the partially revived bonfire . 
It proved to be a well known and respected widow of the neighbourhood , of a standing which can only be expressed by the word genteel . 
Her face , encompassed by the blackness of the receding heath , showed whitely , and with out half lights , like a cameo . 
She was a woman of middle age , with well formed features of the type usually found where perspicacity is the chief quality enthroned within . 
At moments she seemed to be regarding issues from a Nebo denied to others around . 
She had something of an estranged mien the solitude exhaled from the heath was concentrated in this face that had risen from it . 
The explanation lay in the fact that though her husband had been a small farmer she herself was a curate's daughter , who had once dreamt of doing better things . 
Her normal manner among the heathfolk had that reticence which results from the consciousness of superior communicative power . 
Why , 'tis Mis'ess Yeobright , said Fairway . 
Mis'ess Yeobright , not ten minutes ago a man was here asking for you a reddleman . 
What did he want ? said she . 
Something to sell , I suppose what it can be I am at a loss to understand . 
I am glad to hear that your son Mr. Clym is coming home at Christmas , ma'am , said Sam , the turf cutter . 
What a dog he used to be for bonfires ! Yes . 
I believe he is coming , she said . 
He must be a fine fellow by this time , said Fairway . 
He is a man now , she replied quietly . 
'Tis very lonesome for 'ee in the heth tonight , mis'ess , said Christian , coming from the seclusion he had hitherto maintained . 
Mind you don't get lost . 
Egdon Heth is a bad place to get lost in , and the winds do huffle queerer tonight than ever I heard 'em afore . 
Them that know Egdon best have been pixy led here at times . 
Is that you , Christian ? said Mrs. Yeobright . 
Oftentimes if you could see how terrible down I get in my mind , 'twould make 'ee quite nervous for fear I should die by my hand . 
Now , Grandfer , said Timothy Fairway , we are ashamed of ye . 
A reverent old patriarch man as you be seventy if a day to go hornpiping like that by yourself ! A harrowing old man , Mis'ess Yeobright , said Christian despondingly . 
I wouldn't live with him a week , so playward as he is , if I could get away . 
'Twould be more seemly in ye to stand still and welcome Mis'ess Yeobright , and you the venerablest here , Grandfer Cantle , said the besom woman . 
Faith , and so it would , said the reveller checking himself repentantly . 
I've such a bad memory , Mis'ess Yeobright , that I forget how I'm looked up to by the rest of 'em . 
My spirits must be wonderful good , you'll say ? But not always . 
'Tis a weight upon a man to be looked up to as commander , and I often feel it . 
I am sorry to stop the talk , said Mrs. Yeobright . 
But I must be leaving you now . 
I should like her to walk with me , as her way is mine . 
Ay , sure , ma'am , I'm just thinking of moving , said Olly . 
Why , you'll be safe to meet the reddleman that I told ye of , said Fairway . 
He's only gone back to get his van . 
Thank you indeed , said Mrs. Yeobright . 
But we shall take a shorter cut through the furze than you can go with long clothes so we won't trouble you to wait . 
Very well are you ready , Olly ? Yes , ma'am . 
And there's a light shining from your niece's window , see . 
It will help to keep us in the path . 
She indicated the faint light at the bottom of the valley which Fairway had pointed out and the two women descended the tumulus . 
The Halt on the Turnpike Road Down , downward they went , and yet further down their descent at each step seeming to outmeasure their advance . 
Their Tartarean situation might by some have been called an imprudent one for two unattended women . 
But these shaggy recesses were at all seasons a familiar surrounding to Olly and Mrs. Yeobright and the addition of darkness lends no frightfulness to the face of a friend . 
And so Tamsin has married him at last , said Olly , when the incline had become so much less steep that their foot steps no longer required undivided attention . 
Mrs. Yeobright answered slowly , Yes at last . 
How you will miss her living with 'ee as a daughter , as she always have . 
Olly , though without the tact to perceive when remarks were untimely , was saved by her very simplicity from rendering them offensive . 
Questions that would have been resented in others she could ask with impunity . 
This accounted for Mrs. Yeobright's acquiescence in the revival of an evidently sore subject . 
I was quite strook to hear you'd agreed to it , ma'am , that I was , continued the besom maker . 
You were not more struck by it than I should have been last year this time , Olly . 
There are a good many sides to that wedding . 
I could not tell you all of them , even if I tried . 
I felt myself that he was hardly solid going enough to mate with your family . 
Keeping an inn what is it ? But 'a's clever , that's true , and they say he was an engineering gentleman once , but has come down by being too outwardly given . 
I saw that , upon the whole , it would be better she should marry where she wished . 
Poor little thing , her feelings got the better of her , no doubt . 
And what's done cannot be undone . 
It cannot , said Mrs. Yeobright . 
See , here's the wagon track at last . 
Now we shall get along better . 
She first reached Wildeve's Patch , as it was called , a plot of land redeemed from the heath , and after long and laborious years brought into cultivation . 
The man who had discovered that it could be tilled died of the labour the man who succeeded him in possession ruined himself in fertilizing it . 
Wildeve came like Amerigo Vespucci , and received the honours due to those who had gone before . 
It was soon evident that this was the reddleman who had inquired for her . 
Instead of entering the inn at once , she walked by it and towards the van . 
The reddleman started , and held up his finger . 
He stopped the horses , and beckoned to her to withdraw with him a few yards aside , which she did , wondering . 
You don't know me , ma'am , I suppose ? he said . 
I do not , said she . 
Why , yes , I do ! You are young Venn your father was a dairyman somewhere here ? Yes and I knew your niece , Miss Tamsin , a little . 
I have something bad to tell you . 
About her no ! She has just come home , I believe , with her husband . 
They arranged to return this afternoon to the inn beyond here . 
How do you know ? Because she's here . 
She's in my van , he added slowly . 
What new trouble has come ? murmured Mrs. Yeobright , putting her hand over her eyes . 
I can't explain much , ma'am . 
'Oh , Diggory Venn ! she said , 'I thought 'twas you will you help me ? I am in trouble . 
How did she know your Christian name ? said Mrs. Yeobright doubtingly . 
I had met her as a lad before I went away in this trade . 
She asked then if she might ride , and then down she fell in a faint . 
I picked her up and put her in , and there she has been ever since . 
She has cried a good deal , but she has hardly spoke all she has told me being that she was to have been married this morning . 
I tried to get her to eat something , but she couldn't and at last she fell asleep . 
Let me see her at once , said Mrs. Yeobright , hastening towards the van . 
The reddleman followed with the lantern , and , stepping up first , assisted Mrs. Yeobright to mount beside him . 
A young girl lay thereon , covered with a cloak . 
She was asleep , and the light of the lantern fell upon her features . 
A fair , sweet , and honest country face was revealed , reposing in a nest of wavy chestnut hair . 
It was between pretty and beautiful . 
Though her eyes were closed , one could easily imagine the light necessarily shining in them as the culmination of the luminous workmanship around . 
The groundwork of the face was hopefulness but over it now I ay like a foreign substance a film of anxiety and grief . 
The grief had been there so shortly as to have abstracted nothing of the bloom , and had as yet but given a dignity to what it might eventually undermine . 
The scarlet of her lips had not had time to abate , and just now it appeared still more intense by the absence of the neighbouring and more transient colour of her cheek . 
The lips frequently parted , with a murmur of words . 
She seemed to belong rightly to a madrigal to require viewing through rhyme and harmony . 
One thing at least was obvious she was not made to be looked at thus . 
The reddleman had appeared conscious of as much , and , while Mrs. Yeobright looked in upon her , he cast his eyes aside with a delicacy which well became him . 
The sleeper apparently thought so too , for the next moment she opened her own . 
An ingenuous , transparent life was disclosed , as if the flow of her existence could be seen passing within her . 
She understood the scene in a moment . 
O yes , it is I , Aunt , she cried . 
O my dear girl ! Thomasin was now on the verge of a sob , but by an unexpected self command she uttered no sound . 
With a gentle panting breath she sat upright . 
I did not expect to see you in this state , any more than you me , she went on quickly . 
Where am I , Aunt ? Nearly home , my dear . 
What dreadful thing is it ? I'll tell you in a moment . 
So near , are we ? Then I will get out and walk . 
I want to go home by the path . 
Why should you think it necessary to ask me ? I will , of course , said he . 
He is indeed kind , murmured Thomasin . 
I was once acquainted with him , Aunt , and when I saw him today I thought I should prefer his van to any conveyance of a stranger . 
Reddleman , stop the horses , please . 
The man regarded her with tender reluctance , but stopped them Aunt and niece then descended from the van , Mrs. Yeobright saying to its owner , I quite recognize you now . 
What made you change from the nice business your father left you ? Well , I did , he said , and looked at Thomasin , who blushed a little . 
I think not , she said , since Thomasin wishes to walk . 
We can soon run up the path and reach home we know it well . 
And after a few further words they parted , the reddleman moving onwards with his van , and the two women remaining standing in the road . 
As soon as the vehicle and its driver had withdrawn so far as to be beyond all possible reach of her voice , Mrs. Yeobright turned to her niece . 
Now , Thomasin , she said sternly , what's the meaning of this disgraceful performance ? Perplexity among Honest People Thomasin looked as if quite overcome by her aunt's change of manner . 
It means just what it seems to mean I am not married , she replied faintly . 
Excuse me for humiliating you , Aunt , by this mishap I am sorry for it . 
But I cannot help it . 
Me ? Think of yourself first . 
When we got there the parson wouldn't marry us because of some trifling irregularity in the license . 
What irregularity ? I don't know . 
I did not think when I went away this morning that I should come back like this . 
It being dark , Thomasin allowed her emotion to escape her by the silent way of tears , which could roll down her cheek unseen . 
I felt it so strongly that I did what I would never have believed myself capable of doing stood up in the church , and made myself the public talk for weeks . 
But having once consented , I don't submit to these fancies without good reason . 
Marry him you must after this . 
Do you think I wish to do otherwise for one moment ? said Thomasin , with a heavy sigh . 
He says we can be married in a day or two . 
I wish he had never seen you . 
Very well then I will be the miserablest woman in the world , and not let him see me again . 
No , I won't have him ! It is too late to speak so . 
I am going to the inn to see if he has returned . 
Of course I shall get to the bottom of this story at once . 
Mr. Wildeve must not suppose he can play tricks upon me , or any belonging to me . 
The license was wrong , and he couldn't get another the same day . 
He will tell you in a moment how it was , if he comes . 
Why didn't he bring you back ? That was me ! again sobbed Thomasin . 
When I found we could not be married I didn't like to come back with him , and I was very ill . 
Then I saw Diggory Venn , and was glad to get him to take me home . 
I cannot explain it any better , and you must be angry with me if you will . 
But another inn , some of whose features are also embodied in this description , the RED LION at Winfrith , still remains as a haven for the wayfarer . 
The front of the house was towards the heath and Rainbarrow , whose dark shape seemed to threaten it from the sky . 
The garden was at the back , and behind this ran a still deep stream , forming the margin of the heath in that direction , meadow land appearing beyond the stream . 
But the thick obscurity permitted only skylines to be visible of any scene at present . 
The water at the back of the house could be heard , idly spinning whirpools in its creep between the rows of dry feather headed reeds which formed a stockade along each bank . 
Their presence was denoted by sounds as of a congregation praying humbly , produced by their rubbing against each other in the slow wind . 
A vast shadow , in which could be dimly traced portions of a masculine contour , blotted half the ceiling . 
He seems to be at home , said Mrs. Yeobright . 
Must I come in , too , Aunt ? asked Thomasin faintly . 
I suppose not it would be wrong . 
You must come , certainly to confront him , so that he may make no false representations to me . 
We shall not be five minutes in the house , and then we'll walk home . 
Entering the open passage , she tapped at the door of the private parlour , unfastened it , and looked in . 
The back and shoulders of a man came between Mrs. Yeobright's eyes and the fire . 
Wildeve , whose form it was , immediately turned , arose , and advanced to meet his visitors . 
He was quite a young man , and of the two properties , form and motion , the latter first attracted the eye in him . 
The grace of his movement was singular it was the pantomimic expression of a lady killing career . 
The lower half of his figure was of light build . 
Altogether he was one in whom no man would have seen anything to admire , and in whom no woman would have seen anything to dislike . 
He discerned the young girl's form in the passage , and said , Thomasin , then , has reached home . 
How could you leave me in that way , darling ? And turning to Mrs. Yeobright It was useless to argue with her . 
She would go , and go alone . 
But what's the meaning of it all ? demanded Mrs. Yeobright haughtily . 
Take a seat , said Wildeve , placing chairs for the two women . 
Well , it was a very stupid mistake , but such mistakes will happen . 
The license was useless at Anglebury . 
It was made out for Budmouth , but as I didn't read it I wasn't aware of that . 
There was not time to get to Budmouth afterwards . 
I think you are very much to blame , said Mrs. Yeobright . 
It was quite my fault we chose Anglebury , Thomasin pleaded . 
I proposed it because I was not known there . 
I know so well that I am to blame that you need not remind me of it , replied Wildeve shortly . 
Such things don't happen for nothing , said the aunt . 
It is a great slight to me and my family and when it gets known there will be a very unpleasant time for us . 
How can she look her friends in the face tomorrow ? It is a very great injury , and one I cannot easily forgive . 
It may even reflect on her character . 
He led her into an adjoining room , leaving Mrs. Yeobright by the fire . 
I know you could not help it , dear , whatever Aunt may think . 
Yes , Thomasin murmured , and I suppose I seem so now . 
Damon , what do you mean to do about me ? Do about you ? Yes . 
Those who don't like you whisper things which at moments make me doubt you . 
We mean to marry , I suppose , don't we ? Of course we do . 
We have only to go to Budmouth on Monday , and we marry at once . 
Then do let us go ! O Damon , what you make me say ! She hid her face in her handkerchief . 
I used to think it would be pretty and sweet like that but how different ! Yes , real life is never at all like that . 
But I don't care personally if it never takes place , she added with a little dignity no , I can live without you . 
It is Aunt I think of . 
She is so proud , and thinks so much of her family respectability , that she will be cut down with mortification if this story should get abroad before it is done . 
My cousin Clym , too , will be much wounded . 
Then he will be very unreasonable . 
In fact , you are all rather unreasonable . 
Thomasin coloured a little , and not with love . 
I merely feel that you have my aunt to some extent in your power at last . 
As a matter of justice it is almost due to me , said Wildeve . 
I can never forget those banns . 
A harsher man would rejoice now in the power I have of turning upon your aunt by going no further in the business . 
She looked wistfully at him with her sorrowful eyes as he said those words , and her aspect showed that more than one person in the room could deplore the possession of sensitiveness . 
Seeing that she was really suffering he seemed disturbed and added , This is merely a reflection you know . 
I have not the least intention to refuse to complete the marriage , Tamsie mine I could not bear it . 
You could not , I know ! said the fair girl , brightening . 
You , who cannot bear the sight of pain in even an insect , or any disagreeable sound , or unpleasant smell even , will not long cause pain to me and mine . 
I will not , if I can help it . 
Your hand upon it , Damon . 
He carelessly gave her his hand . 
Ah , by my crown , what's that ? he said suddenly . 
There fell upon their ears the sound of numerous voices singing in front of the house . 
Among these , two made themselves prominent by their peculiarity one was a very strong bass , the other a wheezy thin piping . 
Thomasin recognized them as belonging to Timothy Fairway and Grandfer Cantle respectively . 
What does it mean it is not skimmity riding , I hope ? she said , with a frightened gaze at Wildeve . 
Of course not no , it is that the heath folk have come to sing to us a welcome . 
Thomasin , Thomasin ! she said , looking indignantly at Wildeve here's a pretty exposure ! Let us escape at once . 
Come ! It was , however , too late to get away by the passage . 
A rugged knocking had begun upon the door of the front room . 
Wildeve , who had gone to the window , came back . 
Stop ! he said imperiously , putting his hand upon Mrs. Yeobright's arm . 
There are fifty of them out there if there's one . 
You stay in this room with Thomasin I'll go out and face them . 
You must stay now , for my sake , till they are gone , so that it may seem as if all was right . 
Come , Tamsie dear , don't go making a scene we must marry after this that you can see as well as I. Sit still , that's all and don't speak much . 
Blundering fools ! He pressed the agitated girl into a seat , returned to the outer room and opened the door . 
Immediately outside , in the passage , appeared Grandfer Cantle singing in concert with those still standing in front of the house . 
He came into the room and nodded abstractedly to Wildeve , his lips still parted , and his features excruciatingly strained in the emission of the chorus . 
At the Grandfer's heels now came the rest of the group , which included Fairway , Christian , Sam the turf cutter , Humphrey , and a dozen others . 
All smiled upon Wildeve , and upon his tables and chairs likewise , from a general sense of friendliness towards the articles as well as towards their owner . 
We struck down across , d'ye see , Mr. Wildeve , and she went round by the path . 
Not quite settled in yet well , well , there's plenty of time . 
That's a drop of the right sort , I can see , said Grandfer Cantle , with the air of a man too well mannered to show any hurry to taste it . 
Yes , said Wildeve , 'tis some old mead . 
I hope you will like it . 
O ay ! replied the guests , in the hearty tones natural when the words demanded by politeness coincide with those of deepest feeling . 
There isn't a prettier drink under the sun . 
I'll take my oath there isn't , added Grandfer Cantle . 
All that can be said against mead is that 'tis rather heady , and apt to lie about a man a good while . 
But tomorrow's Sunday , thank God . 
I feel'd for all the world like some bold soldier after I had had some once , said Christian . 
Jown the slippery glasses , said Grandfer Cantle . 
was as good a feller as ever lived . 
He always had his great indignation ready against anything underhand . 
Is that very dangerous ? said Christian . 
And there were few in these parts that were upsides with him , said Sam . 
Whenever a club walked he'd play the clarinet in the band that marched before 'em as if he'd never touched anything but a clarinet all his life . 
'Twas a wonderful thing that one body could hold it all and never mix the fingering . 
There was Kingsbere church likewise , Fairway recommenced , as one opening a new vein of the same mine of interest . 
Wildeve breathed the breath of one intolerably bored , and glanced through the partition at the prisoners . 
And neighbour Yeobright would take Andrey's place for some part of the service , to let Andrey have a bit of a nap , as any friend would naturally do . 
As any friend would , said Grandfer Cantle , the other listeners expressing the same accord by the shorter way of nodding their heads . 
No sooner was Andrey asleep and the first whiff of neighbour Yeobright's wind had got inside Andrey's clarinet than everyone in church feeled in a moment there was a great soul among 'em . 
Every winder in church rattled as if 'twere a thunderstorm . 
Was it quite safe when the winder shook ? Christian inquired . 
He received no answer , all for the moment sitting rapt in admiration of the performance described . 
He was the last you'd have expected to drop off in the prime of life , said Humphrey . 
Ah , well he was looking for the earth some months afore he went . 
'Tis a smock for a crown , I thought and so it turned out . 
Ay , when I think what she'll say to me now without a mossel of red in her face , it do seem strange that 'a wouldn't say such a little thing then . 
However , then she went on , and that's what made me bring up the story . 
, 'I'd sooner have lost it than have seen what I have . 
Poor Mr. Yeobright was took bad directly he reached the fair ground , and was forced to go home again . 
That was the last time he ever went out of the parish . 
'A faltered on from one day to another , and then we heard he was gone . 
D'ye think he had great pain when 'a died ? said Christian . 
Nor any pain of mind . 
He was lucky enough to be God A'mighty's own man . 
And other folk d'ye think 'twill be much pain to 'em , Mister Fairway ? That depends on whether they be afeard . 
I bain't afeard at all , I thank God ! said Christian strenuously . 
I'm glad I bain't , for then 'twon't pain me . 
I don't think I be afeard or if I be I can't help it , and I don't deserve to suffer . 
All glances went through the window , and nobody noticed that Wildeve disguised a brief , telltale look . 
Far away up the sombre valley of heath , and to the right of Rainbarrow , could indeed be seen the light , small , but steady and persistent as before . 
It was lighted before ours was , Fairway continued and yet every one in the country round is out afore 'n . 
Perhaps there's meaning in it ! murmured Christian . 
How meaning ? said Wildeve sharply . 
Christian was too scattered to reply , and Timothy helped him . 
I'd be very glad to ask her in wedlock , if she'd hae me and take the risk of her wild dark eyes ill wishing me , said Grandfer Cantle staunchly . 
Don't ye say it , Father ! implored Christian . 
And a partner as deep as the North Star , said Sam , taking up the cup and finishing the little that remained . 
Well , really , now I think we must be moving , said Humphrey , observing the emptiness of the vessel . 
But we'll gie 'em another song ? said Grandfer Cantle . 
I'm as full of notes as a bird ! Thank you , Grandfer , said Wildeve . 
But we will not trouble you now . 
Some other day must do for that when I have a party . 
Be jown'd if I don't learn ten new songs for't , or I won't learn a line ! said Grandfer Cantle . 
And you may be sure I won't disappoint ye by biding away , Mr. Wildeve . 
I quite believe you , said that gentleman . 
All then took their leave , wishing their entertainer long life and happiness as a married man , with recapitulations which occupied some time . 
Diving into the dense obscurity in a line headed by Sam the turf cutter , they pursued their trackless way home . 
When the scratching of the furze against their leggings had fainted upon the ear , Wildeve returned to the room where he had left Thomasin and her aunt . 
They could only have left the house in one way , by the back window and this was open . 
Wildeve laughed to himself , remained a moment thinking , and idly returned to the front room . 
Here his glance fell upon a bottle of wine which stood on the mantelpiece . 
Ah old Dowden ! he murmured and going to the kitchen door shouted , Is anybody here who can take something to old Dowden ? There was no reply . 
The room was empty , the lad who acted as his factotum having gone to bed . 
Wildeve came back put on his hat , took the bottle , and left the house , turning the key in the door , for there was no guest at the inn tonight . 
As soon as he was on the road the little bonfire on Mistover Knap again met his eye . 
Still waiting , are you , my lady ? he murmured . 
This house was the home of Olly Dowden , the besom maker , and he entered . 
The lower room was in darkness but by feeling his way he found a table , whereon he placed the bottle , and a minute later emerged again upon the heath . 
He stood and looked northeast at the undying little fire high up above him , though not so high as Rainbarrow . 
We have been told what happens when a woman deliberates and the epigram is not always terminable with woman , provided that one be in the case , and that a fair one . 
Had the reddleman been watching he might have recognized her as the woman who had first stood there so singularly , and vanished at the approach of strangers . 
She ascended to her old position at the top , where the red coals of the perishing fire greeted her like living eyes in the corpse of day . 
Her reason for standing so dead still as the pivot of this circle of heath country was just as obscure . 
Her extraordinary fixity , her conspicuous loneliness , her heedlessness of night , betokened among other things an utter absence of fear . 
It might reasonably have been supposed that she was listening to the wind , which rose somewhat as the night advanced , and laid hold of the attention . 
The wind , indeed , seemed made for the scene , as the scene seemed made for the hour . 
Part of its tone was quite special what was heard there could be heard nowhere else . 
Gusts in innumerable series followed each other from the northwest , and when each one of them raced past the sound of its progress resolved into three . 
Treble , tenor , and bass notes were to be found therein . 
The general ricochet of the whole over pits and prominences had the gravest pitch of the chime . 
Next there could be heard the baritone buzz of a holly tree . 
Below these in force , above them in pitch , a dwindled voice strove hard at a husky tune , which was the peculiar local sound alluded to . 
Thinner and less immediately traceable than the other two , it was far more impressive than either . 
Throughout the blowing of these plaintive November winds that note bore a great resemblance to the ruins of human song which remain to the throat of fourscore and ten . 
It was the united products of infinitesimal vegetable causes , and these were neither stems , leaves , fruit , blades , prickles , lichen , nor moss . 
They were the mummied heathbells of the past summer , originally tender and purple , now washed colourless by Michaelmas rains , and dried to dead skins by October suns . 
Yet scarcely a single accent among the many afloat tonight could have such power to impress a listener with thoughts of its origin . 
A meaning of the phrase forced itself upon the attention and an emotional listener's fetichistic mood might have ended in one of more advanced quality . 
Thrown out on the winds it became twined in with them , and with them it flew away . 
What she uttered was a lengthened sighing , apparently at something in her mind which had led to her presence here . 
There was a spasmodic abandonment about it as if , in allowing herself to utter the sound . 
the woman's brain had authorized what it could not regulate . 
One point was evident in this that she had been existing in a suppressed state , and not in one of languor , or stagnation . 
She lifted her left hand , which held a closed telescope . 
This she rapidly extended , as if she were well accustomed to the operation , and raising it to her eye directed it towards the light beaming from the inn . 
The handkerchief which had hooded her head was now a little thrown back , her face being somewhat elevated . 
This , however , was mere superficiality . 
In respect of character a face may make certain admissions by its outline but it fully confesses only in its changes . 
Thus the night revealed little of her whose form it was embracing , for the mobile parts of her countenance could not be seen . 
At last she gave up her spying attitude , closed the telescope , and turned to the decaying embers . 
She blew long enough to show that the sand had all slipped through . 
Ah ! she said , as if surprised . 
The light raised by her breath had been very fitful , and a momentary irradiation of flesh was all that it had disclosed of her face . 
That consisted of two matchless lips and a cheek only , her head being still enveloped . 
She threw away the stick , took the glass in her hand , the telescope under her arm , and moved on . 
Along the ridge ran a faint foot track , which the lady followed . 
To a walker practised in such places a difference between impact on maiden herbage , and on the crippled stalks of a slight footway , is perceptible through the thickest boot or shoe . 
The solitary figure who walked this beat took no notice of the windy tune still played on the dead heathbells . 
She did not turn her head to look at a group of dark creatures further on , who fled from her presence as she skirted a ravine where they fed . 
They were about a score of the small wild ponies known as heath croppers . 
They roamed at large on the undulations of Egdon , but in numbers too few to detract much from the solitude . 
The pedestrian noticed nothing just now , and a clue to her abstraction was afforded by a trivial incident . 
A bramble caught hold of her skirt , and checked her progress . 
Instead of putting it off and hastening along , she yielded herself up to the pull , and stood passively still . 
When she began to extricate herself it was by turning round and round , and so unwinding the prickly switch . 
She was in a desponding reverie . 
Her course was in the direction of the small undying fire which had drawn the attention of the men on Rainbarrow and of Wildeve in the valley below . 
Outside was a ditch , dry except immediately under the fire , where there was a large pool , bearded all round by heather and rushes . 
In the smooth water of the pool the fire appeared upside down . 
A white mast , fitted up with spars and other nautical tackle , could be seen rising against the dark clouds whenever the flames played brightly enough to reach it . 
Altogether the scene had much the appearance of a fortification upon which had been kindled a beacon fire . 
Nobody was visible but ever and anon a whitish something moved above the bank from behind , and vanished again . 
Occasionally an ember rolled off the bank , and dropped with a hiss into the pool . 
At one side of the pool rough steps built of clods enabled everyone who wished to do so to mount the bank which the woman did . 
Within was a paddock in an uncultivated state , though bearing evidence of having once been tilled but the heath and fern had insidiously crept in , and were reasserting their old supremacy . 
Further ahead were dimly visible an irregular dwelling house , garden , and outbuildings , backed by a clump of firs . 
A yet unconsumed pile of these lay in the inner angle of the bank and from this corner the upturned face of a little boy greeted her eves . 
I am glad you have come , Miss Eustacia , he said , with a sigh of relief . 
I don't like biding by myself . 
I have only been a little way for a walk . 
I have been gone only twenty minutes . 
It seemed long , murmured the sad boy . 
And you have been so many times . 
Why , I thought you would be pleased to have a bonfire . 
Are you not much obliged to me for making you one ? Yes but there's nobody here to play wi' me . 
I suppose nobody has come while I've been away ? Nobody except your grandfather he looked out of doors once for 'ee . 
I told him you were walking round upon the hill to look at the other bonfires . 
I think I hear him coming again , miss . 
An old man came into the remoter light of the fire from the direction of the homestead . 
He was the same who had overtaken the reddleman on the road that afternoon . 
He looked wistfully to the top of the bank at the woman who stood there , and his teeth , which were quite unimpaired , showed like parian from his parted lips . 
When are you coming indoors , Eustacia ? he asked . 
I've been home these two hours , and am tired out . 
Surely 'tis somewhat childish of you to stay out playing at bonfires so long , and wasting such fuel . 
Grandfather , you go in to bed . 
I shall follow you soon . 
You like the fire , don't you , Johnny ? The boy looked up doubtfully at her and murmured , I don't think I want it any longer . 
Her grandfather had turned back again , and did not hear the boy's reply . 
Come , tell me you like to do things for me , and don't deny it . 
The repressed child said , Yes , I do , miss , and continued to stir the fire perfunctorily . 
Stay a little longer and I will give you a crooked six pence , said Eustacia , more gently . 
Put in one piece of wood every two or three minutes , but not too much at once . 
I am going to walk along the ridge a little longer , but I shall keep on coming to you . 
Now put in one stick more . 
The little slave went on feeding the fire as before . 
He seemed a mere automaton , galvanized into moving and speaking by the wayward Eustacia's will . 
He might have been the brass statue which Albertus Magnus is said to have animated just so far as to make it chatter , and move , and be his servant . 
Before going on her walk again the young girl stood still on the bank for a few instants and listened . 
Otherwise the situation was quite open , commanding the whole length of the valley which reached to the river behind Wildeve's house . 
High above this to the right , and much nearer thitherward than the Quiet Woman Inn , the blurred contour of Rainbarrow obstructed the sky . 
After her attentive survey of the wild slopes and hollow ravines a gesture of impatience escaped Eustacia . 
She vented petulant words every now and then , but there were sighs between her words , and sudden listenings between her sighs . 
Descending from her perch she again sauntered off towards Rainbarrow , though this time she did not go the whole way . 
Twice she reappeared at intervals of a few minutes and each time she said Not any flounce into the pond yet , little man ? No , Miss Eustacia , the child replied . 
Well , she said at last , I shall soon be going in , and then I will give you the crooked sixpence , and let you go home . 
Thank'ee , Miss Eustacia , said the tired stoker , breathing more easily . 
And Eustacia again strolled away from the fire , but this time not towards Rainbarrow . 
She skirted the bank and went round to the wicket before the house , where she stood motionless , looking at the scene . 
She idly watched him as he occasionally climbed up in the nook of the bank and stood beside the brands . 
While Eustacia looked on from this distance the boy's form visibly started he slid down the bank and ran across towards the white gate . 
A hopfrog have jumped into the pond . 
Yes , I heard 'en ! Then it is going to rain , and you had better go home . 
You will not be afraid ? She spoke hurriedly , as if her heart had leapt into her throat at the boy's words . 
No , because I shall hae the crooked sixpence . 
Now run as fast as you can not that way through the garden here . 
No other boy in the heath has had such a bonfire as yours . 
The boy , who clearly had had too much of a good thing , marched away into the shadows with alacrity . 
When he was gone Eustacia , leaving her telescope and hourglass by the gate , brushed forward from the wicket towards the angle of the bank , under the fire . 
Here , screened by the outwork , she waited . 
In a few moments a splash was audible from the pond outside . 
Eustacia stepped upon the bank . 
Yes ? she said , and held her breath . 
Thereupon the contour of a man became dimly visible against the low reaching sky over the valley , beyond the outer margin of the pool . 
He came round it and leapt upon the bank beside her . 
A low laugh escaped her the third utterance which the girl had indulged in tonight . 
The first , when she stood upon Rainbarrow , had expressed anxiety the second , on the ridge , had expressed impatience the present was one of triumphant pleasure . 
She let her joyous eyes rest upon him without speaking , as upon some wondrous thing she had created out of chaos . 
I have come , said the man , who was Wildeve . 
You give me no peace . 
Why do you not leave me alone ? I have seen your bonfire all the evening . 
The words were not without emotion , and retained their level tone as if by a careful equipoise between imminent extremes . 
At this unexpectedly repressing manner in her lover the girl seemed to repress herself also . 
Of course you have seen my fire , she answered with languid calmness , artificially maintained . 
Why shouldn't I have a bonfire on the Fifth of November , like other denizens of the heath ? I knew it was meant for me . 
Don't begin speaking to me as you did , Damon you will drive me to say words I would not wish to say to you . 
What have you heard to make you think that ? said Wildeve , astonished . 
That you did not marry her ! she murmured exultingly . 
And I knew it was because you loved me best , and couldn't do it . 
Damon , you have been cruel to me to go away , and I have said I would never forgive you . 
I do not think I can forgive you entirely , even now it is too much for a woman of any spirit to quite overlook . 
If I had known you wished to call me up here only to reproach me , I wouldn't have come . 
Does anybody else know ? I suppose not . 
It is insulting my pride to suppose that . 
Wildeve was silent it was evident that he had supposed as much . 
Did you indeed think I believed you were married ? she again demanded earnestly . 
Never mind , let it go I must bear your mean opinion as best I may . 
However , the curse of inflammability is upon me , and I must live under it , and take any snub from a woman . 
It has brought me down from engineering to innkeeping what lower stage it has in store for me I have yet to learn . 
He continued to look upon her gloomily . 
He said quietly , No. Not even on the shoulders of Thomasin ? Thomasin is a pleasing and innocent woman . 
That's nothing to do with it , she cried with quick passionateness . 
We will leave her out there are only you and me now to think of . 
But perhaps it is not wholly because of you that I get gloomy , she archly added . 
It is in my nature to feel like that . 
It was born in my blood , I suppose . 
Or else it was coming into this wild heath . 
I was happy enough at Budmouth . 
O the times , O the days at Budmouth ! But Egdon will be brighter again now . 
I hope it will , said Wildeve moodily . 
Do you know the consequence of this recall to me , my old darling ? I shall come to see you again as before , at Rainbarrow . 
And yet I declare that until I got here tonight I intended , after this one good bye , never to meet you again . 
I don't thank you for that , she said , turning away , while indignation spread through her like subterranean heat . 
You have said as much before , sweet but such natures as yours don't so easily adhere to their words . 
Neither , for the matter of that , do such natures as mine . 
This is the pleasure I have won by my trouble , she whispered bitterly . 
Why did I try to recall you ? Damon , a strange warring takes place in my mind occasionally . 
Do you mean to see me again ? If you own to me that the wedding is broken off because you love me best . 
I don't think it would be good policy , said Wildeve , smiling . 
You would get to know the extent of your power too clearly . 
But tell me ! You know . 
Where is she now ? I don't know . 
I prefer not to speak of her to you . 
I have not yet married her I have come in obedience to your call . 
I determined you should come and you have come ! I have shown my power . 
A mile and half hither , and a mile and half back again to your home three miles in the dark for me . 
Have I not shown my power ? He shook his head at her . 
I know you too well , my Eustacia I know you too well . 
There isn't a note in you which I don't know and that hot little bosom couldn't play such a cold blooded trick to save its life . 
I saw a woman on Rainbarrow at dusk looking down towards my house . 
I think I drew out you before you drew out me . 
The revived embers of an old passion glowed clearly in Wildeve now and he leant forward as if about to put his face towards her cheek . 
O no , she said , intractably moving to the other side of the decayed fire . 
What did you mean by that ? Perhaps I may kiss your hand ? No , you may not . 
Then I may shake your hand ? No. Then I wish you good night without caring for either . 
Good bye , good bye . 
She returned no answer , and with the bow of a dancing master he vanished on the other side of the pool as he had come . 
Eustacia sighed it was no fragile maiden sigh , but a sigh which shook her like a shiver . 
Whenever a flash of reason darted like an electric light upon her lover as it sometimes would and showed his imperfections , she shivered thus . 
But it was over in a second , and she loved on . 
She knew that he trifled with her but she loved on . 
She scattered the half burnt brands , went indoors immediately , and up to her bedroom without a light . 
Queen of Night Eustacia Vye was the raw material of a divinity . 
On Olympus she would have done well with a little preparation . 
She had the passions and instincts which make a model goddess , that is , those which make not quite a model woman . 
She was in person full limbed and somewhat heavy without ruddiness , as without pallor and soft to the touch as a cloud . 
To see her hair was to fancy that a whole winter did not contain darkness enough to form its shadow it closed over her forehead like nightfall extinguishing the western glow . 
Her nerves extended into those tresses , and her temper could always be softened by stroking them down . 
When her hair was brushed she would instantly sink into stillness and look like the Sphinx . 
This enabled her to indulge in reverie without seeming to do so she might have been believed capable of sleeping without closing them up . 
Assuming that the souls of men and women were visible essences , you could fancy the colour of Eustacia's soul to be flamelike . 
The sparks from it that rose into her dark pupils gave the same impression . 
The mouth seemed formed less to speak than to quiver , less to quiver than to kiss . 
Some might have added , less to kiss than to curl . 
Viewed sideways , the closing line of her lips formed , with almost geometric precision , the curve so well known in the arts of design as the cima recta , or ogee . 
The sight of such a flexible bend as that on grim Egdon was quite an apparition . 
It was felt at once that the mouth did not come over from Sleswig with a band of Saxon pirates whose lips met like the two halves of a muffin . 
One had fancied that such lip curves were mostly lurking underground in the South as fragments of forgotten marbles . 
So fine were the lines of her lips that , though full , each corner of her mouth was as clearly cut as the point of a spear . 
In a dim light , and with a slight rearrangement of her hair , her general figure might have stood for that of either of the higher female deities . 
But celestial imperiousness , love , wrath , and fervour had proved to be somewhat thrown away on netherward Egdon . 
Her power was limited , and the consciousness of this limitation had biassed her development . 
Egdon was her Hades , and since coming there she had imbibed much of what was dark in its tone , though inwardly and eternally unreconciled thereto . 
Her appearance accorded well with this smouldering rebelliousness , and the shady splendour of her beauty was the real surface of the sad and stifled warmth within her . 
A true Tartarean dignity sat upon her brow , and not factitiously or with marks of constraint , for it had grown in her with years . 
Nothing can embellish a beautiful face more than a narrow band drawn over the brow , says Richter . 
Why did a woman of this sort live on Egdon Heath ? Budmouth was her native place , a fashionable seaside resort at that date . 
The marriage was scarcely in accord with the old man's wishes , for the bandmaster's pockets were as light as his occupation . 
She hated the change she felt like one banished but here she was forced to abide . 
Thus it happened that in Eustacia's brain were juxtaposed the strangest assortment of ideas , from old time and from new . 
Every bizarre effect that could result from the random intertwining of watering place glitter with the grand solemnity of a heath , was to be found in her . 
Seeing nothing of human life now , she imagined all the more of what she had seen . 
Among other things opportunity had of late years been denied her of learning to be undignified , for she lived lonely . 
Isolation on a heath renders vulgarity well nigh impossible . 
It would have been as easy for the heath ponies , bats , and snakes to be vulgar as for her . 
A narrow life in Budmouth might have completely demeaned her . 
The only way to look queenly without realms or hearts to queen it over is to look as if you had lost them and Eustacia did that to a triumph . 
In the captain's cottage she could suggest mansions she had never seen . 
Perhaps that was because she frequented a vaster mansion than any of them , the open hills . 
To be loved to madness such was her great desire . 
Love was to her the one cordial which could drive away the eating loneliness of her days . 
And she seemed to long for the abstraction called passionate love more than for any particular lover . 
Through want of it she had sung without being merry , possessed without enjoying , outshone without triumphing . 
Her loneliness deepened her desire . 
A blaze of love , and extinction , was better than a lantern glimmer of the same which should last long years . 
Yet she desired it , as one in a desert would be thankful for brackish water . 
She often repeated her prayers not at particular times , but , like the unaffectedly devout , when she desired to pray . 
Her prayer was always spontaneous , and often ran thus , O deliver my heart from this fearful gloom and loneliness send me great love from somewhere , else I shall die . 
Her high gods were William the Conqueror , Strafford , and Napoleon Buonaparte , as they had appeared in the Lady's History used at the establishment in which she was educated . 
Had she been a mother she would have christened her boys such names as Saul or Sisera in preference to Jacob or David , neither of whom she admired . 
At school she had used to side with the Philistines in several battles , and had wondered if Pontius Pilate were as handsome as he was frank and fair . 
Thus she was a girl of some forwardness of mind , indeed , weighed in relation to her situation among the very rearward of thinkers , very original . 
Her instincts towards social non comformity were at the root of this . 
In the matter of holidays , her mood was that of horses who , when turned out to grass , enjoy looking upon their kind at work on the highway . 
She only valued rest to herself when it came in the midst of other people's labour . 
Hence she hated Sundays when all was at rest , and often said they would be the death of her . 
, walking leisurely among the turves and furze faggots they had cut during the week , and kicking them critically as if their use were unknown , was a fearful heaviness to her . 
To relieve the tedium of this untimely day she would overhaul the cupboards containing her grandfather's old charts and other rubbish , humming Saturday night ballads of the country people the while . 
Such views of life were to some extent the natural begettings of her situation upon her nature . 
To dwell on a heath without studying its meanings was like wedding a foreigner without learning his tongue . 
The subtle beauties of the heath were lost to Eustacia she only caught its vapours . 
Eustacia had got beyond the vision of some marriage of inexpressible glory yet , though her emotions were in full vigour , she cared for no meaner union . 
Thus we see her in a strange state of isolation . 
But , if congenial to philosophy , it is apt to be dangerous to the commonwealth . 
In a world where doing means marrying , and the commonwealth is one of hearts and hands , the same peril attends the condition . 
This was the sole reason of his ascendency she knew it herself . 
At moments her pride rebelled against her passion for him , and she even had longed to be free . 
But there was only one circumstance which could dislodge him , and that was the advent of a greater man . 
In heaven she will probably sit between the Heloises and the Cleopatras . 
There was really little danger in allowing a child to go home alone on this part of Egdon Heath . 
and was the loneliest of lonely houses on these thinly populated slopes . 
In the middle of this the child stopped from a pit under the hill ahead of him shone a light , whence proceeded a cloud of floating dust and a smacking noise . 
Only unusual sights and sounds frightened the boy . 
The shrivelled voice of the heath did not alarm him , for that was familiar . 
Lights were not uncommon this evening , but the nature of all of them was different from this . 
Discretion rather than terror prompted the boy to turn back instead of passing the light , with a view of asking Miss Eustacia Vye to let her servant accompany him home . 
When the boy had reascended to the top of the valley he found the fire to be still burning on the bank , though lower than before . 
Beside it , instead of Eustacia's solitary form , he saw two persons , the second being a man . 
After listening under the bank for some minutes to the talk he turned in a perplexed and doubting manner and began to withdraw as silently as he had come . 
That he did not , upon the whole , think it advisable to interrupt her conversation with Wildeve , without being prepared to bear the whole weight of her displeasure , was obvious . 
Here was a Scyllaeo Charybdean position for a poor boy . 
Pausing when again safe from discovery , he finally decided to face the pit phenomenon as the lesser evil . 
With a heavy sigh he retraced the slope , and followed the path he had followed before . 
The light had gone , the rising dust had disappeared he hoped for ever . 
The halt was but momentary , for the noise resolved itself into the steady bites of two animals grazing . 
Two he'th croppers down here , he said aloud . 
I have never known 'em come down so far afore . 
The animals were in the direct line of his path , but that the child thought little of he had played round the fetlocks of horses from his infancy . 
He could now see the interior of the pit , which , being in the side of the hill , had a level entrance . 
In the innermost corner the square outline of a van appeared , with its back towards him . 
A light came from the interior , and threw a moving shadow upon the vertical face of gravel at the further side of the pit into which the vehicle faced . 
The child assumed that this was the cart of a gipsy , and his dread of those wanderers reached but to that mild pitch which titillates rather than pains . 
Only a few inches of mud wall kept him and his family from being gipsies themselves . 
The picture alarmed the boy . 
By a little stove inside the van sat a figure red from head to heels the man who had been Thomasin's friend . 
He was darning a stocking , which was red like the rest of him . 
Moreover , as he darned he smoked a pipe , the stem and bowl of which were red also . 
At this moment one of the heath croppers feeding in the outer shadows was audibly shaking off the clog attached to its foot . 
Aroused by the sound , the reddleman laid down his stocking , lit a lantern which hung beside him , and came out from the van . 
The boy knew too well for his peace of mind upon whose lair he had lighted . 
Uglier persons than gipsies were known to cross Egdon at times , and a reddleman was one of them . 
How I wish 'twas only a gipsy ! he murmured . 
The man was by this time coming back from the horses . 
In his fear of being seen the boy rendered detection certain by nervous motion . 
The heather and peat stratum overhung the brow of the pit in mats , hiding the actual verge . 
The boy had stepped beyond the solid ground the heather now gave way , and down he rolled over the scarp of grey sand to the very foot of the man . 
The red man opened the lantern and turned it upon the figure of the prostrate boy . 
Who be ye ? he said . 
Johnny Nunsuch , master ! What were you doing up there ? I don't know . 
Watching me , I suppose ? Yes , master . 
What did you watch me for ? Because I was coming home from Miss Vye's bonfire . 
Beest hurt ? No. Why , yes , you be your hand is bleeding . 
Come under my tilt and let me tie it up . 
Please let me look for my sixpence . 
How did you come by that ? Miss Vye gied it to me for keeping up her bonfire . 
The sixpence was found , and the man went to the van , the boy behind , almost holding his breath . 
My eyes have got foggy like please may I sit down , master ? said the boy . 
To be sure , poor chap . 
'Tis enough to make you feel fainty . 
The man finished tying up the gash , and the boy said , I think I'll go home now , master . 
You are rather afraid of me . 
Do you know what I be ? The child surveyed his vermilion figure up and down with much misgiving and finally said , Yes . 
Well , what ? The reddleman ! he faltered . 
Yes , that's what I be . 
Though there's more than one . 
You little children think there's only one cuckoo , one fox , one giant , one devil , and one reddleman , when there's lots of us all . 
Is there ? You won't carry me off in your bags , will ye , master ? 'Tis said that the reddleman will sometimes . 
All that reddlemen do is sell reddle . 
You see all these bags at the back of my cart ? They are not full of little boys only full of red stuff . 
Was you born a reddleman ? No , I took to it . 
Now , you'll never be afraid of a reddleman again , will ye ? No , never . 
Willy Orchard said he seed a red ghost here t'other day perhaps that was you ? I was here t'other day . 
Were you making that dusty light I saw by now ? Oh yes , I was beating out some bags . 
And have you had a good bonfire up there ? I saw the light . 
Why did Miss Vye want a bonfire so bad that she should give you sixpence to keep it up ? I don't know . 
I was tired , but she made me bide and keep up the fire just the same , while she kept going up across Rainbarrow way . 
And how long did that last ? Until a hopfrog jumped into the pond . 
The reddleman suddenly ceased to talk idly . 
A hopfrog ? he inquired . 
Hopfrogs don't jump into ponds this time of year . 
They do , for I heard one . 
She told me afore that I should hear'n and so I did . 
They say she's clever and deep , and perhaps she charmed 'en to come . 
What did the gentleman say to her , my sonny ? He only said he did like her best , and how he was coming to see her again under Rainbarrow o' nights . 
Ha ! cried the reddleman , slapping his hand against the side of his van so that the whole fabric shook under the blow . 
That's the secret o't ! The little boy jumped clean from the stool . 
My man , don't you be afraid , said the dealer in red , suddenly becoming gentle . 
I forgot you were here . 
That's only a curious way reddlemen have of going mad for a moment but they don't hurt anybody . 
And what did the lady say then ? I can't mind . 
Please , Master Reddleman , may I go home along now ? Ay , to be sure you may . 
I'll go a bit of ways with you . 
He conducted the boy out of the gravel pit and into the path leading to his mother's cottage . 
When the little figure had vanished in the darkness the reddleman returned , resumed his seat by the fire , and proceeded to darn again . 
Love Leads a Shrewd Man into Strategy Reddlemen of the old school are now but seldom seen . 
Reddle spreads its lively hues over everything it lights on , and stamps unmistakably , as with the mark of Cain , any person who has handled it half an hour . 
A child's first sight of a reddleman was an epoch in his life . 
That blood coloured figure was a sublimation of all the horrid dreams which had afflicted the juvenile spirit since imagination began . 
The reddleman is coming for you ! had been the formulated threat of Wessex mothers for many generations . 
And now the reddleman has in his turn followed Buonaparte to the land of worn out bogeys , and his place is filled by modern inventions . 
The reddleman lived like a gipsy but gipsies he scorned . 
He was about as thriving as travelling basket and mat makers but he had nothing to do with them . 
He was more decently born and brought up than the cattledrovers who passed and repassed him in his wanderings but they merely nodded to him . 
His stock was more valuable than that of pedlars but they did not think so , and passed his cart with eyes straight ahead . 
He was such an unnatural colour to look at that the men of roundabouts and waxwork shows seemed gentlemen beside him but he considered them low company , and remained aloof . 
Among all these squatters and folks of the road the reddleman continually found himself yet he was not of them . 
His occupation tended to isolate him , and isolated he was mostly seen to be . 
Else why should they have chosen it ? In the present case such a question would have been particularly apposite . 
The one point that was forbidding about this reddleman was his colour . 
Freed from that he would have been as agreeable a specimen of rustic manhood as one would often see . 
A keen observer might have been inclined to think which was , indeed , partly the truth that he had relinquished his proper station in life for want of interest in it . 
While he darned the stocking his face became rigid with thought . 
Softer expressions followed this , and then again recurred the tender sadness which had sat upon him during his drive along the highway that afternoon . 
He laid down the stocking , arose from his seat , and took a leathern pouch from a hook in the corner of the van . 
The letter bore a date some two years previous to that time , and was signed Thomasin Yeobright . 
Of course , if my aunt had not met me I could have explained all then at once , but as it was there was no chance . 
I cannot , Diggory , marry you , or think of letting you call me your sweetheart . 
I could not , indeed , Diggory . 
I hope you will not much mind my saying this , and feel in a great pain . 
It makes me very sad when I think it may , for I like you very much , and I always put you next to my cousin Clym in my mind . 
There are so many reasons why we cannot be married that I can hardly name them all in a letter . 
You must not becall me for laughing when you spoke you mistook when you thought I laughed at you as a foolish man . 
I laughed because the idea was so odd , and not at you at all . 
It is not as you think , that I have another in my mind , for I do not encourage anybody , and never have in my life . 
Another reason is my aunt . 
She would not , I know , agree to it , even if I wished to have you . 
She likes you very well , but she will want me to look a little higher than a small dairy farmer , and marry a professional man . 
I shall always think of you as a good man , and be anxious for your well doing . 
I send this by Jane Orchard's little maid , And remain Diggory , your faithful friend , THOMASIN YEOBRIGHT . 
Since the arrival of that letter , on a certain autumn morning long ago , the reddleman and Thomasin had not met till today . 
During the interval he had shifted his position even further from hers than it had originally been , by adopting the reddle trade though he was really in very good circumstances still . 
Indeed , seeing that his expenditure was only one fourth of his income , he might have been called a prosperous man . 
Rejected suitors take to roaming as naturally as unhived bees and the business to which he had cynically devoted himself was in many ways congenial to Venn . 
But his wanderings , by mere stress of old emotions , had frequently taken an Egdon direction , though he never intruded upon her who attracted him thither . 
To be in Thomasin's heath , and near her , yet unseen , was the one ewe lamb of pleasure left to him . 
After what had happened it was impossible that he should not doubt the honesty of Wildeve's intentions . 
But her hope was apparently centred upon him and dismissing his regrets Venn determined to aid her to be happy in her own chosen way . 
That this way was , of all others , the most distressing to himself , was awkward enough but the reddleman's love was generous . 
His first active step in watching over Thomasin's interests was taken about seven o'clock the next evening and was dictated by the news which he had learnt from the sad boy . 
That Eustacia was somehow the cause of Wildeve's carelessness in relation to the marriage had at once been Venn's conclusion on hearing of the secret meeting between them . 
It did not occur to his mind that Eustacia's love signal to Wildeve was the tender effect upon the deserted beauty of the intelligence which her grandfather had brought home . 
His instinct was to regard her as a conspirator against rather than as an antecedent obstacle to Thomasin's happiness . 
He watched for a meeting there , but he watched in vain . 
Nobody except himself came near the spot that night . 
But the loss of his labour produced little effect upon the reddleman . 
The same hour the next evening found him again at the same place but Eustacia and Wildeve , the expected trysters , did not appear . 
He pursued precisely the same course yet four nights longer , and without success . 
They met in the little ditch encircling the tumulus the original excavation from which it had been thrown up by the ancient British people . 
The reddleman , stung with suspicion of wrong to Thomasin , was aroused to strategy in a moment . 
He instantly left the bush and crept forward on his hands and knees . 
When he had got as close as he might safely venture without discovery he found that , owing to a cross wind , the conversation of the trysting pair could not be overheard . 
He took two of these as he lay , and dragged them over him till one covered his head and shoulders , the other his back and legs . 
The reddleman would now have been quite invisible , even by daylight the turves , standing upon him with the heather upwards , looked precisely as if they were growing . 
He crept along again , and the turves upon his back crept with him . 
Had he approached without any covering the chances are that he would not have been perceived in the dusk approaching thus , it was as though he burrowed underground . 
In this manner he came quite close to where the two were standing . 
Wish to consult me on the matter ? reached his ears in the rich , impetuous accents of Eustacia Vye . 
Consult me ? It is an indignity to me to talk so I won't bear it any longer ! She began weeping . 
Better of course it would be . 
Marry her she is nearer to your own position in life than I am ! Yes , yes that's very well , said Wildeve peremptorily . 
But we must look at things as they are . 
Whatever blame may attach to me for having brought it about , Thomasin's position is at present much worse than yours . 
I simply tell you that I am in a strait . 
But you shall not tell me ! You must see that it is only harassing me . 
Damon , you have not acted well you have sunk in my opinion . 
You have not valued my courtesy the courtesy of a lady in loving you who used to think of far more ambitious things . 
But it was Thomasin's fault . 
She won you away from me , and she deserves to suffer for it . 
Where is she staying now ? Not that I care , nor where I am myself . 
I don't think you care much about her even now , said Eustacia with sudden joyousness , for if you did you wouldn't talk so coolly about her . 
I never wish to desert you . 
I do not thank you for that . 
I should hate it to be all smooth . 
Indeed , I think I like you to desert me a little once now and then . 
Love is the dismallest thing where the lover is quite honest . 
O , it is a shame to say so but it is true ! She indulged in a little laugh . 
My low spirits begin at the very idea . 
It is I who am the sinner after all I am not worth the little finger of either of you . 
But you must not sacrifice yourself to her from any sense of justice , replied Eustacia quickly . 
If you do not love her it is the most merciful thing in the long run to leave her as she is . 
That's always the best way . 
There , now I have been unwomanly , I suppose . 
When you have left me I am always angry with myself for things that I have said to you . 
Wildeve walked a pace or two among the heather without replying . 
The pause was filled up by the intonation of a pollard thorn a little way to windward , the breezes filtering through its unyielding twigs as through a strainer . 
It was as if the night sang dirges with clenched teeth . 
She continued , half sorrowfully , Since meeting you last , it has occurred to me once or twice that perhaps it was not for love of me you did not marry her . 
Tell me , Damon I'll try to bear it . 
Had I nothing whatever to do with the matter ? Do you press me to tell ? Yes , I must know . 
I see I have been too ready to believe in my own power . 
Well , the immediate reason was that the license would not do for the place , and before I could get another she ran away . 
Up to that point you had nothing to do with it . 
Since then her aunt has spoken to me in a tone which I don't at all like . 
Yes , yes ! I am nothing in it I am nothing in it . 
You only trifle with me . 
Heaven , what can I , Eustacia Vye , be made of to think so much of you ! Nonsense do not be so passionate . 
Yes , you served me cruelly enough until I thought I had found someone fairer than you . 
A blessed find for me , Eustacia . 
Do you still think you found somebody fairer ? Sometimes I do , sometimes I don't . 
The scales are balanced so nicely that a feather would turn them . 
But don't you really care whether I meet you or whether I don't ? she said slowly . 
I care a little , but not enough to break my rest , replied the young man languidly . 
No , all that's past . 
I find there are two flowers where I thought there was only one . 
Perhaps there are three , or four , or any number as good as the first . 
Mine is a curious fate . 
That is , I have my times and my seasons . 
But you are a pleasant lady to know and nice to meet , and I dare say as sweet as ever almost . 
Eustacia was silent , and she turned from him , till she said , in a voice of suspended mightiness , I am for a walk , and this is my way . 
Well , I can do worse than follow you . 
You know you can't do otherwise , for all your moods and changes ! she answered defiantly . 
Say what you will try as you may keep away from me all that you can you will never forget me . 
You will love me all your life long . 
You would jump to marry me ! So I would ! said Wildeve . 
Such strange thoughts as I've had from time to time , Eustacia and they come to me this moment . 
You hate the heath as much as ever that I know . 
I do , she murmured deeply . 
'Tis my cross , my shame , and will be my death ! I abhor it too , said he . 
How mournfully the wind blows round us now ! She did not answer . 
Its tone was indeed solemn and pervasive . 
Compound utterances addressed themselves to their senses , and it was possible to view by ear the features of the neighbourhood . 
God , how lonely it is ! resumed Wildeve . 
What are picturesque ravines and mists to us who see nothing else ? Why should we stay here ? Will you go with me to America ? I have kindred in Wisconsin . 
It seems impossible to do well here , unless one were a wild bird or a landscape painter . 
Well ? Give me time , she softly said , taking his hand . 
America is so far away . 
He lifted the turves and arose . 
Their black figures sank and disappeared from against the sky . 
They were as two horns which the sluggish heath had put forth from its crown , like a mollusc , and had now again drawn in . 
The reddleman's walk across the vale , and over into the next where his cart lay , was not sprightly for a slim young fellow of twenty four . 
His spirit was perturbed to aching . 
The breezes that blew around his mouth in that walk carried off upon them the accents of a commination . 
He entered the van , where there was a fire in a stove . 
Without lighting his candle he sat down at once on the three legged stool , and pondered on what he had seen and heard touching that still loved one of his . 
He uttered a sound which was neither sigh nor sob , but was even more indicative than either of a troubled mind . 
My Tamsie , he whispered heavily . 
What can be done ? Yes , I will see that Eustacia Vye . 
Though these shaggy hills were apparently so solitary , several keen round eyes were always ready on such a wintry morning as this to converge upon a passer by . 
Feathered species sojourned here in hiding which would have created wonder if found elsewhere . 
A bustard haunted the spot , and not many years before this five and twenty might have been seen in Egdon at one time . 
Marsh harriers looked up from the valley by Wildeve's . 
A traveller who should walk and observe any of these visitants as Venn observed them now could feel himself to be in direct communication with regions unknown to man . 
Here in front of him was a wild mallard just arrived from the home of the north wind . 
The creature brought within him an amplitude of Northern knowledge . 
Glacial catastrophes , snowstorm episodes , glittering auroral effects , Polaris in the zenith , Franklin underfoot the category of his commonplaces was wonderful . 
But the bird , like many other philosophers , seemed as he looked at the reddleman to think that a present moment of comfortable reality was worth a decade of memories . 
Venn passed on through these towards the house of the isolated beauty who lived up among them and despised them . 
The day was Sunday but as going to church , except to be married or buried , was exceptional at Egdon , this made little difference . 
To call at the captain's cottage was always more or less an undertaking for the inferior inhabitants . 
Though occasionally chatty , his moods were erratic , and nobody could be certain how he would behave at any particular moment . 
Eustacia was reserved , and lived very much to herself . 
Except the daughter of one of the cotters , who was their servant , and a lad who worked in the garden and stable , scarcely anyone but themselves ever entered the house . 
The captain surveyed him from cap to waistcoat and from waistcoat to leggings for a few moments , and finally asked him to go indoors . 
I suppose the young lady is not up yet ? he presently said to the servant . 
Folks never call upon ladies at this time of day . 
Then I'll step outside , said Venn . 
If she is willing to see me , will she please send out word , and I'll come in . 
The reddleman left the house and loitered on the hill adjoining . 
A considerable time elapsed , and no request for his presence was brought . 
He was beginning to think that his scheme had failed , when he beheld the form of Eustacia herself coming leisurely towards him . 
A sense of novelty in giving audience to that singular figure had been sufficient to draw her forth . 
On his inquiring if he might have a conversation with her she replied , Yes , walk beside me , and continued to move on . 
I have made so bold , miss , as to step across and tell you some strange news which has come to my ears about that man . 
Ah ! what man ? He jerked his elbow to the southeast the direction of the Quiet Woman . 
Eustacia turned quickly to him . 
I ? What is the trouble ? It is quite a secret . 
It is that he may refuse to marry Thomasin Yeobright after all . 
Eustacia , though set inwardly pulsing by his words , was equal to her part in such a drama as this . 
She replied coldly , I do not wish to listen to this , and you must not expect me to interfere . 
But , miss , you will hear one word ? I cannot . 
I am not interested in the marriage , and even if I were I could not compel Mr. Wildeve to do my bidding . 
As the only lady on the heath I think you might , said Venn with subtle indirectness . 
This is how the case stands . 
Mr. Wildeve would marry Thomasin at once , and make all matters smooth , if so be there were not another woman in the case . 
This other woman is some person he has picked up with , and meets on the heath occasionally , I believe . 
He will never marry her , and yet through her he may never marry the woman who loves him dearly . 
You think too much of my influence over menfolk indeed , reddleman . 
Can it be that you really don't know of it how much she had always thought of you ? I have never heard a word of it . 
Although we live only two miles apart I have never been inside her aunt's house in my life . 
The superciliousness that lurked in her manner told Venn that thus far he had utterly failed . 
He inwardly sighed and felt it necessary to unmask his second argument . 
Well , leaving that out of the question , 'tis in your power , I assure you , Miss Vye , to do a great deal of good to another woman . 
Your comeliness is law with Mr. Wildeve . 
It is law with all men who see 'ee . 
There was a certain obscurity in Eustacia's beauty , and Venn's eye was not trained . 
Eustacia could not help replying , though conscious that she endangered her dignity thereby . 
Many women are lovelier than Thomasin , she said , so not much attaches to that . 
Surely what she cannot do who has been so much with him I cannot do living up here away from him . 
The reddleman wheeled and looked her in the face . 
Miss Vye ! he said . 
Why do you say that as if you doubted me ? She spoke faintly , and her breathing was quick . 
The idea of your speaking in that tone to me ! she added , with a forced smile of hauteur . 
He is beneath you , and you are ashamed . 
What do you mean ? The reddleman had decided to play the card of truth . 
I was at the meeting by Rainbarrow last night and heard every word , he said . 
The woman that stands between Wildeve and Thomasin is yourself . 
It was a disconcerting lift of the curtain , and the mortification of Candaules' wife glowed in her . 
The moment had arrived when her lip would tremble in spite of herself , and when the gasp could no longer be kept down . 
I am unwell , she said hurriedly . 
No it is not that I am not in a humour to hear you further . 
I must speak , Miss Vye , in spite of paining you . 
What I would put before you is this . 
However it may come about whether she is to blame , or you her case is without doubt worse than yours . 
Then I ask you not because her right is best , but because her situation is worst to give him up to her . 
No I won't , I won't ! she said impetuously , quite forgetful of her previous manner towards the reddleman as an underling . 
Nobody has ever been served so ! It was going on well I will not be beaten down by an inferior woman like her . 
It is only I who ask you to give him up . 
It will be better for her and you both . 
People will say bad things if they find out that a lady secretly meets a man who has ill used another woman . 
I have NOT injured her he was mine before he was hers ! He came back because because he liked me best ! she said wildly . 
But I lose all self respect in talking to you . 
What am I giving way to ! I can keep secrets , said Venn gently . 
I am the only man who knows of your meetings with him . 
There is but one thing more to speak of , and then I will be gone . 
I heard you say to him that you hated living here that Egdon Heath was a jail to you . 
There is a sort of beauty in the scenery , I know but it is a jail to me . 
The man you mention does not save me from that feeling , though he lives here . 
I should have cared nothing for him had there been a better person near . 
The reddleman looked hopeful after these words from her his third attempt seemed promising . 
As we have now opened our minds a bit , miss , he said , I'll tell you what I have got to propose . 
Since I have taken to the reddle trade I travel a good deal , as you know . 
She inclined her head , and swept round so that her eyes rested in the misty vale beneath them . 
And in my travels I go near Budmouth . 
I know it , she said disdainfully . 
I know Budmouth better than you . 
My father came to be a military musician there from abroad . 
Ah , my soul , Budmouth ! I wish I was there now . 
The reddleman was surprised to see how a slow fire could blaze on occasion . 
If you were , miss , he replied , in a week's time you would think no more of Wildeve than of one of those he'th croppers that we see yond . 
Now , I could get you there . 
How ? said Eustacia , with intense curiosity in her heavy eyes . 
My uncle has been for five and twenty years the trusty man of a rich widow lady who has a beautiful house facing the sea . 
She would jump to get you , and Uncle would make it all easy . 
I should have to work , perhaps ? No , not real work you'd have a little to do , such as reading and that . 
You would not be wanted till New Year's Day . 
I knew it meant work , she said , drooping to languor again . 
I confess there would be a trifle to do in the way of amusing her but though idle people might call it work , working people would call it play . 
Think of the company and the life you'd lead , miss the gaiety you'd see , and the gentleman you'd marry . 
My uncle is to inquire for a trustworthy young lady from the country , as she don't like town girls . 
It is to wear myself out to please her ! and I won't go . 
Chance 'tis no chance , she said proudly . 
What can a poor man like you offer me , indeed ? I am going indoors . 
I have nothing more to say . 
With his hands behind him he turned away , that she might not see the hopeless disappointment in his face . 
The mental clearness and power he had found in this lonely girl had indeed filled his manner with misgiving even from the first few minutes of close quarters with her . 
Her youth and situation had led him to expect a simplicity quite at the beck of his method . 
But a system of inducement which might have carried weaker country lasses along with it had merely repelled Eustacia . 
As a rule , the word Budmouth meant fascination on Egdon . 
Eustacia felt little less extravagantly about the place but she would not sink her independence to get there . 
When Diggory Venn had gone quite away , Eustacia walked to the bank and looked down the wild and picturesque vale towards the sun , which was also in the direction of Wildeve's . 
There was no doubt that her mind was inclined thitherward indefinitely , fancifully twining and untwining about him as the single object within her horizon on which dreams might crystallize . 
Cessation in his love making had revivified her love . 
Such feeling as Eustacia had idly given to Wildeve was dammed into a flood by Thomasin . 
She had used to tease Wildeve , but that was before another had favoured him . 
Often a drop of irony into an indifferent situation renders the whole piquant . 
I will never give him up never ! she said impetuously . 
The reddleman's hint that rumour might show her to disadvantage had no permanent terror for Eustacia . 
She was as unconcerned at that contingency as a goddess at a lack of linen . 
This did not originate in inherent shamelessness , but in her living too far from the world to feel the impact of public opinion . 
Zenobia in the desert could hardly have cared what was said about her at Rome . 
As far as social ethics were concerned Eustacia approached the savage state , though in emotion she was all the while an epicure . 
She had advanced to the secret recesses of sensuousness , yet had hardly crossed the threshold of conventionality . 
He went across to her and could almost perceive in her anxious face that this journey of hers to Wildeve was undertaken with the same object as his own to Eustacia . 
She did not conceal the fact . 
Then , said the reddleman , you may as well leave it alone , Mrs. Yeobright . 
I half think so myself , she said . 
But nothing else remains to be done besides pressing the question upon him . 
I should like to say a word first , said Venn firmly . 
and would have done it any time these last two years . 
There , now it is out , and I have never told anybody before but herself . 
Mrs. Yeobright was not demonstrative , but her eyes involuntarily glanced towards his singular though shapely figure . 
Looks are not everything , said the reddleman , noticing the glance . 
There's many a calling that don't bring in so much as mine , if it comes to money and perhaps I am not so much worse off than Wildeve . 
I am much obliged to you for your interest in my niece but I fear there would be objections . 
More than that , she is devoted to this man . 
True or I shouldn't have done what I have this morning . 
Otherwise there would be no pain in the case , and you would not see me going to his house now . 
What was Thomasin's answer when you told her of your feelings ? She wrote that you would object to me and other things . 
She was in a measure right . 
You must not take this unkindly I merely state it as a truth . 
You have been good to her , and we do not forget it . 
But as she was unwilling on her own account to be your wife , that settles the point without my wishes being concerned . 
But there is a difference between then and now , ma'am . 
Mrs. Yeobright shook her head . 
Thomasin thinks , and I think with her , that she ought to be Wildeve's wife , if she means to appear before the world without a slur upon her name . 
If they marry soon , everybody will believe that an accident did really prevent the wedding . 
If not , it may cast a shade upon her character at any rate make her ridiculous . 
In short , if it is anyhow possible they must marry now . 
I thought that till half an hour ago . 
But I much question if I was right , after all . 
However , nothing came of it . 
And now I offer myself . 
Mrs. Yeobright appeared disinclined to enter further into the question . 
I fear I must go on , she said . 
I do not see that anything else can be done . 
But though this conversation did not divert Thomasin's aunt from her purposed interview with Wildeve , it made a considerable difference in her mode of conducting that interview . 
She thanked God for the weapon which the reddleman had put into her hands . 
Wildeve was at home when she reached the inn . 
He showed her silently into the parlour , and closed the door . 
Mrs. Yeobright began I have thought it my duty to call today . 
A new proposal has been made to me , which has rather astonished me . 
It will affect Thomasin greatly and I have decided that it should at least be mentioned to you . 
Yes ? What is it ? he said civilly . 
It is , of course , in reference to her future . 
You may not be aware that another man has shown himself anxious to marry Thomasin . 
Now , though I have not encouraged him yet , I cannot conscientiously refuse him a chance any longer . 
I don't wish to be short with you but I must be fair to him and to her . 
Who is the man ? said Wildeve with surprise . 
One who has been in love with her longer than she has with you . 
He proposed to her two years ago . 
At that time she refused him . 
Well ? He has seen her lately , and has asked me for permission to pay his addresses to her . 
She may not refuse him twice . 
What is his name ? Mrs. Yeobright declined to say . 
He is a man Thomasin likes , she added , and one whose constancy she respects at least . 
It seems to me that what she refused then she would be glad to get now . 
She is much annoyed at her awkward position . 
She never once told me of this old lover . 
The gentlest women are not such fools as to show EVERY card . 
Well , if she wants him I suppose she must have him . 
It is easy enough to say that but you don't see the difficulty . 
Of course I should do no such thing , said Wildeve But they are not engaged yet . 
I flatter myself that I have some influence over her . 
She is pliable , and I can be strong in my recommendations of him . 
And in your disparagement of me at the same time . 
Well , you may depend upon my not praising you , she said drily . 
And if this seems like manoeuvring , you must remember that her position is peculiar , and that she has been hardly used . 
That will pique her into accepting him . 
I can hardly say that just now , Mrs. Yeobright . 
I confess I was not prepared for this , he said . 
Of course I'll give her up if you wish , if it is necessary . 
But I thought I might be her husband . 
We have heard that before . 
Now , Mrs. Yeobright , don't let us disagree . 
Give me a fair time . 
I don't want to stand in the way of any better chance she may have only I wish you had let me know earlier . 
I will write to you or call in a day or two . 
Will that suffice ? Yes , she replied , provided you promise not to communicate with Thomasin without my knowledge . 
I promise that , he said . 
And the interview then terminated , Mrs. Yeobright returning homeward as she had come . 
By far the greatest effect of her simple strategy on that day was , as often happens , in a quarter quite outside her view when arranging it . 
In the first place , her visit sent Wildeve the same evening after dark to Eustacia's house at Mistover . 
At this hour the lonely dwelling was closely blinded and shuttered from the chill and darkness without . 
This precaution in attracting her attention was to avoid arousing the suspicions of her grandfather . 
The soft words , I hear wait for me , in Eustacia's voice from within told him that she was alone . 
He waited in his customary manner by walking round the enclosure and idling by the pool , for Wildeve was never asked into the house by his proud though condescending mistress . 
She showed no sign of coming out in a hurry . 
The time wore on , and he began to grow impatient . 
In the course of twenty minutes she appeared from round the corner , and advanced as if merely taking an airing . 
You would not have kept me so long had you known what I come about , he said with bitterness . 
Still , you are worth waiting for . 
What has happened ? said Eustacia . 
I did not know you were in trouble . 
I too am gloomy enough . 
I am not in trouble , said he . 
It is merely that affairs have come to a head , and I must take a clear course . 
What course is that ? she asked with attentive interest . 
And can you forget so soon what I proposed to you the other night ? Why , take you from this place , and carry you away with me abroad . 
But why have you come so unexpectedly to repeat the question , when you only promised to come next Saturday ? I thought I was to have plenty of time to consider . 
Yes , but the situation is different now . 
I don't want to explain , for I may pain you . 
But I must know the reason of this hurry . 
It is simply my ardour , dear Eustacia . 
Then why are you so ruffled ? I am not aware of it . 
All is as it should be . 
Mrs. Yeobright but she is nothing to us . 
Ah , I knew she had something to do with it ! Come , I don't like reserve . 
She only says she wishes me to give up Thomasin because another man is anxious to marry her . 
The woman , now she no longer needs me , actually shows off ! Wildeve's vexation has escaped him in spite of himself . 
Eustacia was silent a long while . 
You are in the awkward position of an official who is no longer wanted , she said in a changed tone . 
But I have not yet seen Thomasin . 
Don't deny it , Damon . 
You are actually nettled by this slight from an unexpected quarter . 
Well ? And you come to get me because you cannot get her . 
This is certainly a new position altogether . 
I am to be a stop gap . 
Please remember that I proposed the same thing the other day . 
Eustacia again remained in a sort of stupefied silence . 
Thomasin no longer required him . 
Her social superiority over him , which hitherto had scarcely ever impressed her , became unpleasantly insistent , and for the first time she felt that she had stooped in loving him . 
Well , darling , you agree ? said Wildeve . 
If it could be London , or even Budmouth , instead of America , she murmured languidly . 
Well , I will think . 
It is too great a thing for me to decide offhand . 
I wish I hated the heath less or loved you more . 
You can be painfully frank . 
You loved me a month ago warmly enough to go anywhere with me . 
Yes , perhaps that was where the reason lay , he returned , with almost a sneer . 
I don't hate her now . 
The only thing is that you can no longer get her . 
Come no taunts , Eustacia , or we shall quarrel . 
If you don't agree to go with me , and agree shortly , I shall go by myself . 
Damon , how strange it seems that you could have married her or me indifferently , and only have come to me because I am cheapest ! Yes , yes it is true . 
There was a time when I should have exclaimed against a man of that sort , and been quite wild but it is all past now . 
Will you go , dearest ? Come secretly with me to Bristol , marry me , and turn our backs upon this dog hole of England for ever ? Say Yes . 
I want to get away from here at almost any cost , she said with weariness , but I don't like to go with you . 
Give me more time to decide . 
I have already , said Wildeve . 
Well , I give you one more week . 
A little longer , so that I may tell you decisively . 
I have to consider so many things . 
Fancy Thomasin being anxious to get rid of you ! I cannot forget it . 
I will be here precisely at this time . 
Let it be at Rainbarrow , said she . 
This is too near home my grandfather may be walking out . 
On Monday week at this time I will be at the Barrow . 
No , no , you must not touch me now . 
Shaking hands is enough till I have made up my mind . 
Eustacia watched his shadowy form till it had disappeared . 
She placed her hand to her forehead and breathed heavily and then her rich , romantic lips parted under that homely impulse a yawn . 
She was immediately angry at having betrayed even to herself the possible evanescence of her passion for him . 
She could not admit at once that she might have overestimated Wildeve , for to perceive his mediocrity now was to admit her own great folly heretofore . 
And the discovery that she was the owner of a disposition so purely that of the dog in the manger had something in it which at first made her ashamed . 
The fruit of Mrs. Yeobright's diplomacy was indeed remarkable , though not as yet of the kind she had anticipated . 
It had appreciably influenced Wildeve , but it was influencing Eustacia far more . 
Her lover was no longer to her an exciting man whom many women strove for , and herself could only retain by striving with them . 
Her grandfather had returned , and was busily engaged in pouring some gallons of newly arrived rum into the square bottles of his square cellaret . 
He had been there this evening . 
I suppose you have heard the Egdon news , Eustacia ? he said , without looking up from the bottles . 
The men have been talking about it at the Woman as if it were of national importance . 
I have heard none , she said . 
Young Clym Yeobright , as they call him , is coming home next week to spend Christmas with his mother . 
He is a fine fellow by this time , it seems . 
I suppose you remember him ? I never saw him in my life . 
Ah , true he left before you came here . 
I well remember him as a promising boy . 
Where has he been living all these years ? In that rookery of pomp and vanity , Paris , I believe . 
The performance was that of bringing together and building into a stack the furze faggots which Humphrey had been cutting for the captain's use during the foregoing fine days . 
The stack was at the end of the dwelling , and the men engaged in building it were Humphrey and Sam , the old man looking on . 
In the course of many days and weeks sunrise had advanced its quarters from northeast to southeast , sunset had receded from northwest to southwest but Egdon had hardly heeded the change . 
Eustacia was indoors in the dining room , which was really more like a kitchen , having a stone floor and a gaping chimney corner . 
The air was still , and while she lingered a moment here alone sounds of voices in conversation came to her ears directly down the chimney . 
She remembered the furze stack was not far from the chimney , and the voices were those of the workers . 
Her grandfather joined in the conversation . 
That lad ought never to have left home . 
His father's occupation would have suited him best , and the boy should have followed on . 
I don't believe in these new moves in families . 
My father was a sailor , so was I , and so should my son have been if I had had one . 
The place he's been living at is Paris , said Humphrey , and they tell me 'tis where the king's head was cut off years ago . 
My poor mother used to tell me about that business . 
A good many of us knew as well as He before long , said the captain , chuckling . 
And so the young man has settled in Paris . 
Manager to a diamond merchant , or some such thing , is he not ? Yes , sir , that's it . 
'Tis a blazing great business that he belongs to , so I've heard his mother say like a king's palace , as far as diments go . 
I can well mind when he left home , said Sam . 
'Tis a good thing for the feller , said Humphrey . 
A sight of times better to be selling diments than nobbling about here . 
It must cost a good few shillings to deal at such a place . 
A good few indeed , my man , replied the captain . 
Yes , you may make away with a deal of money and be neither drunkard nor glutton . 
They say , too , that Clym Yeobright is become a real perusing man , with the strangest notions about things . 
There , that's because he went to school early , such as the school was . 
Strange notions , has he ? said the old man . 
Ah , there's too much of that sending to school in these days ! It only does harm . 
Every gatepost and barn's door you come to is sure to have some bad word or other chalked upon it by the young rascals a woman can hardly pass for shame sometimes . 
If they'd never been taught how to write they wouldn't have been able to scribble such villainy . 
Their fathers couldn't do it , and the country was all the better for it . 
Clym's family is as good as hers . 
His father was a farmer , that's true but his mother was a sort of lady , as we know . 
Nothing would please me better than to see them two man and wife . 
They'd look very natty , arm in crook together , and their best clothes on , whether or no , if he's at all the well favoured fellow he used to be . 
Well , I should like to see the chap terrible much after so many years . 
Coming across the water to Budmouth by steamer , isn't he ? Yes but how he's coming from Budmouth I don't know . 
That's a bad trouble about his cousin Thomasin . 
I wonder such a nice notioned fellow as Clym likes to come home into it . 
It makes the family look small . 
Poor maid , her heart has ached enough about it . 
Her health is suffering from it , I hear , for she will bide entirely indoors . 
We never see her out now , scampering over the furze with a face as red as a rose , as she used to do . 
I've heard she wouldn't have Wildeve now if he asked her . 
You have ? 'Tis news to me . 
While the furze gatherers had desultorily conversed thus Eustacia's face gradually bent to the hearth in a profound reverie , her toe unconsciously tapping the dry turf which lay burning at her feet . 
The subject of their discourse had been keenly interesting to her . 
A young and clever man was coming into that lonely heath from , of all contrasting places in the world , Paris . 
It was like a man coming from heaven . 
More singular still , the heathmen had instinctively coupled her and this man together in their minds as a pair born for each other . 
That five minutes of overhearing furnished Eustacia with visions enough to fill the whole blank afternoon . 
Such sudden alternations from mental vacuity do sometimes occur thus quietly . 
Involved in these imaginings she knew nothing of time . 
When she became conscious of externals it was dusk . 
The furze rick was finished the men had gone home . 
She had no reason for walking elsewhere , and why should she not go that way ? The scene of the daydream is sufficient for a pilgrimage at nineteen . 
To look at the palings before the Yeobrights' house had the dignity of a necessary performance . 
Strange that such a piece of idling should have seemed an important errand . 
Beyond the irregular carpet of grass was a row of white palings , which marked the verge of the heath in this latitude . 
They showed upon the dusky scene that they bordered as distinctly as white lace on velvet . 
Behind the white palings was a little garden behind the garden an old , irregular , thatched house , facing the heath , and commanding a full view of the valley . 
This was the obscure , removed spot to which was about to return a man whose latter life had been passed in the French capital the centre and vortex of the fashionable world . 
The People at Blooms End Make Ready All that afternoon the expected arrival of the subject of Eustacia's ruminations created a bustle of preparation at Blooms End . 
Now a few russets , Tamsin . 
He used to like them almost as well as ribstones . 
Thomasin turned and rolled aside the fern from another nook , where more mellow fruit greeted her with its ripe smell . 
Before picking them out she stopped a moment . 
Dear Clym , I wonder how your face looks now ? she said , gazing abstractedly at the pigeon hole . 
which admitted the sunlight so directly upon her brown hair and transparent tissues that it almost seemed to shine through her . 
If he could have been dear to you in another way , said Mrs. Yeobright from the ladder , this might have been a happy meeting . 
Is there any use in saying what can do no good , Aunt ? Yes , said her aunt , with some warmth . 
To thoroughly fill the air with the past misfortune , so that other girls may take warning and keep clear of it . 
Thomasin lowered her face to the apples again . 
I am a warning to others , just as thieves and drunkards and gamblers are , she said in a low voice . 
I wish all good women were as good as I ! she added vehemently . 
Strangers don't see you as I do , said Mrs. Yeobright they judge from false report . 
Well , it is a silly job , and I am partly to blame . 
How quickly a rash thing can be done ! replied the girl . 
Her lips were quivering , and tears so crowded themselves into her eyes that she could hardly distinguish apples from fern as she continued industriously searching to hide her weakness . 
As soon as you have finished getting the apples , her aunt said , descending the ladder , come down , and we'll go for the holly . 
There is nobody on the heath this afternoon , and you need not fear being stared at . 
We must get some berries , or Clym will never believe in our preparations . 
Thomasin came down when the apples were collected , and together they went through the white palings to the heath beyond . 
They reached the place where the hollies grew , which was in a conical pit , so that the tops of the trees were not much above the general level of the ground . 
Will you walk with me to meet him this evening ? I should like to . 
Else it would seem as if I had forgotten him , said Thomasin , tossing out a bough . 
Not that that would matter much I belong to one man nothing can alter that . 
And that man I must marry , for my pride's sake . 
I am afraid began Mrs. Yeobright . 
He has an unfortunate manner , and doesn't try to make people like him if they don't wish to do it of their own accord . 
He wished to marry me , and I wish to marry him . 
Aunt , she said presently , I have , I think , a right to refuse to answer that question . 
You may think what you choose . 
I have never implied to you by word or deed that I have grown to think otherwise of him , and I never will . 
And I shall marry him . 
Well , wait till he repeats his offer . 
I think he may do it , now that he knows something I told him . 
I don't for a moment dispute that it is the most proper thing for you to marry him . 
Much as I have objected to him in bygone days , I agree with you now , you may be sure . 
It is the only way out of a false position , and a very galling one . 
What did you tell him ? That he was standing in the way of another lover of yours . 
Aunt , said Thomasin , with round eyes , what DO you mean ? Don't be alarmed it was my duty . 
I can say no more about it now , but when it is over I will tell you exactly what I said , and why I said it . 
And you will keep the secret of my would be marriage from Clym for the present ? she next asked . 
I have given my word to . 
But what is the use of it ? He must soon know what has happened . 
A mere look at your face will show him that something is wrong . 
Thomasin turned and regarded her aunt from the tree . 
Now , hearken to me , she said , her delicate voice expanding into firmness by a force which was other than physical . 
If he finds out that I am not worthy to be his cousin , let him . 
But , since he loved me once , we will not pain him by telling him my trouble too soon . 
The air is full of the story , I know but gossips will not dare to speak of it to him for the first few days . 
His closeness to me is the very thing that will hinder the tale from reaching him early . 
If I am not made safe from sneers in a week or two I will tell him myself . 
The earnestness with which Thomasin spoke prevented further objections . 
Her aunt simply said , Very well . 
He should by rights have been told at the time that the wedding was going to be . 
He will never forgive you for your secrecy . 
Yes , he will , when he knows it was because I wished to spare him , and that I did not expect him home so soon . 
And you must not let me stand in the way of your Christmas party . 
Putting it off would only make matters worse . 
Of course I shall not . 
I do not wish to show myself beaten before all Egdon , and the sport of a man like Wildeve . 
We have enough berries now , I think , and we had better take them home . 
By the time we have decked the house with this and hung up the mistletoe , we must think of starting to meet him . 
It was now nearly four o'clock , and the sunlight was leaving the vales . 
How a Little Sound Produced a Great Dream Eustacia stood just within the heath , straining her eyes in the direction of Mrs. Yeobright's house and premises . 
No light , sound , or movement was perceptible there . 
The evening was chilly the spot was dark and lonely . 
She inferred that the guest had not yet come and after lingering ten or fifteen minutes she turned again towards home . 
She had not far retraced her steps when sounds in front of her betokened the approach of persons in conversation along the same path . 
Soon their heads became visible against the sky . 
They were walking slowly and though it was too dark for much discovery of character from aspect , the gait of them showed that they were not workers on the heath . 
Eustacia stepped a little out of the foot track to let them pass . 
They were two women and a man and the voices of the women were those of Mrs. Yeobright and Thomasin . 
They went by her , and at the moment of passing appeared to discern her dusky form . 
There came to her ears in a masculine voice , Good night ! She murmured a reply , glided by them , and turned round . 
She strained her eyes to see them , but was unable . 
Such was her intentness , however , that it seemed as if her ears were performing the functions of seeing as well as hearing . 
This extension of power can almost be believed in at such moments . 
She could follow every word that the ramblers uttered . 
They were talking no secrets . 
They were merely indulging in the ordinary vivacious chat of relatives who have long been parted in person though not in soul . 
But it was not to the words that Eustacia listened she could not even have recalled , a few minutes later , what the words were . 
It was to the alternating voice that gave out about one tenth of them the voice that had wished her good night . 
Sometimes this throat uttered Yes , sometimes it uttered No sometimes it made inquiries about a time worn denizen of the place . 
Once it surprised her notions by remarking upon the friendliness and geniality written in the faces of the hills around . 
The three voices passed on , and decayed and died out upon her ear . 
Thus much had been granted her and all besides withheld . 
No event could have been more exciting . 
And this man had greeted her . 
With the departure of the figures the profuse articulations of the women wasted away from her memory but the accents of the other stayed on . 
Was there anything in the voice of Mrs. Yeobright's son for Clym it was startling as a sound ? No it was simply comprehensive . 
All emotional things were possible to the speaker of that good night . 
Eustacia's imagination supplied the rest except the solution to one riddle . 
Eustacia's features went through a rhythmical succession of them . 
She glowed remembering the mendacity of the imagination , she flagged then she freshened then she fired then she cooled again . 
It was a cycle of aspects , produced by a cycle of visions . 
Eustacia entered her own house she was excited . 
Why is it that we are never friendly with the Yeobrights ? she said , coming forward and stretching her soft hands over the warmth . 
They seem to be very nice people . 
Be hanged if I know why , said the captain . 
I liked the old man well enough , though he was as rough as a hedge . 
But you would never have cared to go there , even if you might have , I am well sure . 
Why shouldn't I ? Your town tastes would find them far too countrified . 
They sit in the kitchen , drink mead and elder wine , and sand the floor to keep it clean . 
Ah , I recollect that I once accidentally offended her , and I have never seen her since . 
That night was an eventful one to Eustacia's brain , and one which she hardly ever forgot . 
She dreamt a dream and few human beings , from Nebuchadnezzar to the Swaffham tinker , ever dreamt a more remarkable one . 
Such an elaborately developed , perplexing , exciting dream was certainly never dreamed by a girl in Eustacia's situation before . 
To Queen Scheherazade the dream might have seemed not far removed from commonplace and to a girl just returned from all the courts of Europe it might have seemed not more than interesting . 
But amid the circumstances of Eustacia's life it was as wonderful as a dream could be . 
There was , however , gradually evolved from its transformation scenes a less extravagant episode , in which the heath dimly appeared behind the general brilliancy of the action . 
She was dancing to wondrous music , and her partner was the man in silver armour who had accompanied her through the previous fantastic changes , the visor of his helmet being closed . 
The mazes of the dance were ecstatic . 
Soft whispering came into her ear from under the radiant helmet , and she felt like a woman in Paradise . 
Suddenly these two wheeled out from the mass of dancers , dived into one of the pools of the heath , and came out somewhere into an iridescent hollow , arched with rainbows . 
It must be here , said the voice by her side , and blushingly looking up she saw him removing his casque to kiss her . 
At that moment there was a cracking noise , and his figure fell into fragments like a pack of cards . 
O that I had seen his face ! Eustacia awoke . 
O that I had seen his face ! she said again . 
'Twas meant for Mr. Yeobright ! When she became cooler she perceived that many of the phases of the dream had naturally arisen out of the images and fancies of the day before . 
But this detracted little from its interest , which lay in the excellent fuel it provided for newly kindled fervour . 
She was at the modulating point between indifference and love , at the stage called having a fancy for . 
It occurs once in the history of the most gigantic passions , and it is a period when they are in the hands of the weakest will . 
The perfervid woman was by this time half in love with a vision . 
The fantastic nature of her passion , which lowered her as an intellect , raised her as a soul . 
If she had had a little more self control she would have attenuated the emotion to nothing by sheer reasoning , and so have killed it off . 
If she had had a little less pride she might have gone and circumambulated the Yeobrights' premises at Blooms End at any maidenly sacrifice until she had seen him . 
But Eustacia did neither of these things . 
She acted as the most exemplary might have acted , being so influenced she took an airing twice or thrice a day upon the Egdon hills , and kept her eyes employed . 
The first occasion passed , and he did not come that way . 
She promenaded a second time , and was again the sole wanderer there . 
The third time there was a dense fog she looked around , but without much hope . 
Even if he had been walking within twenty yards of her she could not have seen him . 
At the fourth attempt to encounter him it began to rain in torrents , and she turned back . 
The fifth sally was in the afternoon it was fine , and she remained out long , walking to the very top of the valley in which Blooms End lay . 
She saw the white paling about half a mile off but he did not appear . 
It was almost with heart sickness that she came home and with a sense of shame at her weakness . 
She resolved to look for the man from Paris no more . 
But Providence is nothing if not coquettish and no sooner had Eustacia formed this resolve than the opportunity came which , while sought , had been entirely withholden . 
Eustacia Is Led on to an Adventure In the evening of this last day of expectation , which was the twenty third of December , Eustacia was at home alone . 
Naturally , she said to herself . 
A man in the full swing of his activities in a gay city could not afford to linger long on Egdon Heath . 
The customary expedient of provincial girls and men in such circumstances is churchgoing . 
Thus the congregation on Christmas morning is mostly a Tussaud collection of celebrities who have been born in the neighbourhood . 
But these tender schemes were not feasible among the scattered inhabitants of Egdon Heath . 
In name they were parishioners , but virtually they belonged to no parish at all . 
Somebody knocked at the door . 
The servant was out so was her grandfather . 
The person , after waiting a minute , came in and tapped at the door of the room . 
Who's there ? said Eustacia . 
Please , Cap'n Vye , will you let us Eustacia arose and went to the door . 
I cannot allow you to come in so boldly . 
The cap'n said I might come in without any fuss , was answered in a lad's pleasant voice . 
Oh , did he ? said Eustacia more gently . 
The cap'n used to let the old mummers practise here . 
Yes , you may use the fuelhouse if you like , said Eustacia languidly . 
The choice of Captain Vye's fuelhouse as the scene of rehearsal was dictated by the fact that his dwelling was nearly in the centre of the heath . 
The fuelhouse was as roomy as a barn , and was a most desirable place for such a purpose . 
For mummers and mumming Eustacia had the greatest contempt . 
The mummers themselves were not afflicted with any such feeling for their art , though at the same time they were not enthusiastic . 
Like Balaam and other unwilling prophets , the agents seem moved by an inner compulsion to say and do their allotted parts whether they will or no . 
This unweeting manner of performance is the true ring by which , in this refurbishing age , a fossilized survival may be known from a spurious reproduction . 
The piece was the well known play of Saint George , and all who were behind the scenes assisted in the preparations , including the women of each household . 
Without the co operation of sisters and sweethearts the dresses were likely to be a failure but on the other hand , this class of assistance was not without its drawbacks . 
The girls could never be brought to respect tradition in designing and decorating the armour they insisted on attaching loops and bows of silk and velvet in any situation pleasing to their taste . 
Gorget , gusset , basinet , cuirass , gauntlet , sleeve , all alike in the view of these feminine eyes were practicable spaces whereon to sew scraps of fluttering colour . 
Joe's sweetheart straight way placed brilliant silk on the scallops of the hem in question , and , going a little further , added ribbon tufts to the shoulder pieces . 
Jim's , not to be outdone , would affix bows and rosettes everywhere . 
The guisers themselves , though inwardly regretting this confusion of persons , could not afford to offend those by whose assistance they so largely profited , and the innovations were allowed to stand . 
There was , it is true , a limit to this tendency to uniformity . 
The Leech or Doctor preserved his character intact his darker habiliments , peculiar hat , and the bottle of physic slung under his arm , could never be mistaken . 
Seven o'clock , the hour of the rehearsal , came round , and in a short time Eustacia could hear voices in the fuelhouse . 
Here was a small rough hole in the mud wall , originally made for pigeons , through which the interior of the next shed could be viewed . 
A light came from it now and Eustacia stepped upon a stool to look in upon the scene . 
Well , ye be as well up to it as ever ye will be , he said . 
Not that such mumming would have passed in our time . 
Harry as the Saracen should strut a bit more , and John needn't holler his inside out . 
Beyond that perhaps you'll do . 
Have you got all your clothes ready ? We shall by Monday . 
Your first outing will be Monday night , I suppose ? Yes . 
What makes her want to see ye ? I should think a middle aged woman was tired of mumming . 
She's got up a bit of a party , because 'tis the first Christmas that her son Clym has been home for a long time . 
To be sure , to be sure her party ! I am going myself . 
I almost forgot it , upon my life . 
There was to be a party at the Yeobrights' she , naturally , had nothing to do with it . 
She was a stranger to all such local gatherings , and had always held them as scarcely appertaining to her sphere . 
The lads and men prepared to leave the premises , and Eustacia returned to her fireside . 
She was immersed in thought , but not for long . 
In a few minutes the lad Charley , who had come to ask permission to use the place , returned with the key to the kitchen . 
Eustacia heard him , and opening the door into the passage said , Charley , come here . 
He entered the front room not without blushing for he , like many , had felt the power of this girl's face and form . 
She pointed to a seat by the fire , and entered the other side of the chimney corner herself . 
It could be seen in her face that whatever motive she might have had in asking the youth indoors would soon appear . 
Which part do you play , Charley the Turkish Knight , do you not ? inquired the beauty , looking across the smoke of the fire to him on the other side . 
Yes , miss , the Turkish Knight , he replied diffidently . 
Is yours a long part ? Nine speeches , about . 
Can you repeat them to me ? If so I should like to hear them . 
Eustacia had occasionally heard the part recited before . 
When the lad ended she began , precisely in the same words , and ranted on without hitch or divergence till she too reached the end . 
It was the same thing , yet how different . 
Like in form , it had the added softness and finish of a Raffaelle after Perugino , which , while faithfully reproducing the original subject , entirely distances the original art . 
Charley's eyes rounded with surprise . 
Well , you be a clever lady ! he said , in admiration . 
I've been three weeks learning mine . 
I have heard it before , she quietly observed . 
Now , would you do anything to please me , Charley ? I'd do a good deal , miss . 
Would you let me play your part for one night ? Oh , miss ! But your woman's gown you couldn't . 
I can get boy's clothes at least all that would be wanted besides the mumming dress . 
The other mummers have never spoken to me in their lives so that it would be safe enough and if it were not , I should not mind . 
Now , what must I give you to agree to this ? Half a crown ? The youth shook his head Five shillings ? He shook his head again . 
Money won't do it , he said , brushing the iron head of the firedog with the hollow of his hand . 
What will , then , Charley ? said Eustacia in a disappointed tone . 
You know what you forbade me at the Maypoling , miss , murmured the lad , without looking at her , and still stroking the firedog's head . 
Yes , said Eustacia , with a little more hauteur . 
You wanted to join hands with me in the ring , if I recollect ? Half an hour of that , and I'll agree , miss . 
Eustacia regarded the youth steadfastly . 
He was three years younger than herself , but apparently not backward for his age . 
Half an hour of what ? she said , though she guessed what . 
Holding your hand in mine . 
Make it a quarter of an hour , she said Yes , Miss Eustacia I will , if I may kiss it too . 
A quarter of an hour . 
And I'll swear to do the best I can to let you take my place without anybody knowing . 
Don't you think somebody might know your tongue , miss ? It is possible . 
But I will put a pebble in my mouth to make is less likely . 
Very well you shall be allowed to have my hand as soon as you bring the dress and your sword and staff . 
I don't want you any longer now . 
Charley departed , and Eustacia felt more and more interest in life . 
Here was something to do here was some one to see , and a charmingly adventurous way to see him . 
But when aroused she would make a dash which , just for the time , was not unlike the move of a naturally lively person . 
On the question of recognition she was somewhat indifferent . 
By the acting lads themselves she was not likely to be known . 
With the guests who might be assembled she was hardly so secure . 
Yet detection , after all , would be no such dreadful thing . 
The fact only could be detected , her true motive never . 
It would be instantly set down as the passing freak of a girl whose ways were already considered singular . 
That she was doing for an earnest reason what would most naturally be done in jest was at any rate a safe secret . 
The next evening Eustacia stood punctually at the fuelhouse door , waiting for the dusk which was to bring Charley with the trappings . 
Her grandfather was at home tonight , and she would be unable to ask her confederate indoors . 
He appeared on the dark ridge of heathland , like a fly on a Negro , bearing the articles with him , and came up breathless with his walk . 
Here are the things , he whispered , placing them upon the threshold . 
And now , Miss Eustacia The payment . 
I am as good as my word . 
She leant against the door post , and gave him her hand . 
Charley took it in both his own with a tenderness beyond description , unless it was like that of a child holding a captured sparrow . 
Why , there's a glove on it ! he said in a deprecating way . 
I have been walking , she observed . 
But , miss ! Well it is hardly fair . 
She pulled off the glove , and gave him her bare hand . 
They stood together minute after minute , without further speech , each looking at the blackening scene , and each thinking his and her own thoughts . 
I think I won't use it all up tonight , said Charley devotedly , when six or eight minutes had been passed by him caressing her hand . 
May I have the other few minutes another time ? As you like , said she without the least emotion . 
But it must be over in a week . 
Now , there is only one thing I want you to do to wait while I put on the dress , and then to see if I do my part properly . 
But let me look first indoors . 
She vanished for a minute or two , and went in . 
Her grandfather was safely asleep in his chair . 
Now , then , she said , on returning , walk down the garden a little way , and when I am ready I'll call you . 
Charley walked and waited , and presently heard a soft whistle . 
He returned to the fuelhouse door . 
Did you whistle , Miss Vye ? Yes come in , reached him in Eustacia's voice from a back quarter . 
I must not strike a light till the door is shut , or it may be seen shining . 
Push your hat into the hole through to the wash house , if you can feel your way across . 
Charley did as commanded , and she struck the light revealing herself to be changed in sex , brilliant in colours , and armed from top to toe . 
It fits pretty well , she said , looking down at the white overalls , except that the tunic , or whatever you call it , is long in the sleeve . 
The bottom of the overalls I can turn up inside . 
Eustacia then proceeded in her delivery , striking the sword against the staff or lance at the minatory phrases , in the orthodox mumming manner , and strutting up and down . 
Charley seasoned his admiration with criticism of the gentlest kind , for the touch of Eustacia's hand yet remained with him . 
And now for your excuse to the others , she said . 
Where do you meet before you go to Mrs. Yeobright's ? We thought of meeting here , miss , if you have nothing to say against it . 
At eight o'clock , so as to get there by nine . 
Well , you of course must not appear . 
I will march in about five minutes late , ready dressed , and tell them that you can't come . 
I have decided that the best plan will be for you to be sent somewhere by me , to make a real thing of the excuse . 
Our two heath croppers are in the habit of straying into the meads , and tomorrow evening you can go and see if they are gone there . 
Now you may leave me . 
But I think I'll have one minute more of what I am owed , if you don't mind . 
Eustacia gave him her hand as before . 
One minute , she said , and counted on till she reached seven or eight minutes . 
Hand and person she then withdrew to a distance of several feet , and recovered some of her old dignity . 
The contract completed , she raised between them a barrier impenetrable as a wall . 
There , 'tis all gone and I didn't mean quite all , he said , with a sigh . 
You had good measure , said she , turning away . 
Well , 'tis over , and now I'll get home along . 
Through the Moonlight The next evening the mummers were assembled in the same spot , awaiting the entrance of the Turkish Knight . 
Twenty minutes after eight by the Quiet Woman , and Charley not come . 
Ten minutes past by Blooms End . 
It wants ten minutes to , by Grandfer Cantle's watch . 
And 'tis five minutes past by the captain's clock . 
On Egdon there was no absolute hour of the day . 
West Egdon believed in Blooms End time , East Egdon in the time of the Quiet Woman Inn . 
Grandfer Cantle's watch had numbered many followers in years gone by , but since he had grown older faiths were shaken . 
Thus , the mummers having gathered hither from scattered points each came with his own tenets on early and late and they waited a little longer as a compromise . 
Eustacia had watched the assemblage through the hole and seeing that now was the proper moment to enter , she went from the linhay and boldly pulled the bobbin of the fuelhouse door . 
Her grandfather was safe at the Quiet Woman . 
Here's Charley at last ! How late you be , Charley . 
'Tis not Charley , said the Turkish Knight from within his visor . 
'Tis a cousin of Miss Vye's , come to take Charley's place from curiosity . 
I know the part as well as he . 
It don't matter if you be not too young , said Saint George . 
Eustacia's voice had sounded somewhat more juvenile and fluty than Charley's . 
I know every word of it , I tell you , said Eustacia decisively . 
Dash being all that was required to carry her triumphantly through , she adopted as much as was necessary . 
Go ahead , lads , with the try over . 
I'll challenge any of you to find a mistake in me . 
The play was hastily rehearsed , whereupon the other mummers were delighted with the new knight . 
They extinguished the candles at half past eight , and set out upon the heath in the direction of Mrs. Yeobright's house at Bloom's End . 
Their path was not over Rainbarrow now , but down a valley which left that ancient elevation a little to the east . 
The masses of furze and heath to the right and left were dark as ever a mere half moon was powerless to silver such sable features as theirs . 
Half an hour of walking and talking brought them to the spot in the valley where the grass riband widened and led down to the front of the house . 
At sight of the place Eustacia who had felt a few passing doubts during her walk with the youths , again was glad that the adventure had been undertaken . 
She had come out to see a man who might possibly have the power to deliver her soul from a most deadly oppression . 
What was Wildeve ? Interesting , but inadequate . 
Perhaps she would see a sufficient hero tonight . 
As they drew nearer to the front of the house the mummers became aware that music and dancing were briskly flourishing within . 
With nearer approach these fragmentary sounds became pieced together , and were found to be the salient points of the tune called Nancy's Fancy . 
He was there , of course . 
Who was she that he danced with ? Perhaps some unknown woman , far beneath herself in culture , was by the most subtle of lures sealing his fate this very instant . 
To dance with a man is to concentrate a twelvemonth's regulation fire upon him in the fragment of an hour . 
To pass to courtship without acquaintance , to pass to marriage without courtship , is a skipping of terms reserved for those alone who tread this royal road . 
She would see how his heart lay by keen observation of them all . 
The enterprising lady followed the mumming company through the gate in the white paling , and stood before the open porch . 
It became at once evident that the dance was proceeding immediately within the surface of the door , no apartment intervening . 
The brushing of skirts and elbows , sometimes the bumping of shoulders , could be heard against the very panels . 
Eustacia , though living within two miles of the place , had never seen the interior of this quaint old habitation . 
Is there no passage inside the door , then ? asked Eustacia as they stood within the porch . 
No , said the lad who played the Saracen . 
The door opens right upon the front sitting room , where the spree's going on . 
So that we cannot open the door without stopping the dance . 
Here we must bide till they have done , for they always bolt the back door after dark . 
They won't be much longer , said Father Christmas . 
This assertion , however , was hardly borne out by the event . 
Again the instruments ended the tune again they recommenced with as much fire and pathos as if it were the first strain . 
The first five minutes of listening was interesting enough to the mummers . 
The five minutes extended to ten minutes , and these to a quarter of an hour but no signs of ceasing were audible in the lively Dream . 
The bumping against the door , the laughter , the stamping , were all as vigorous as ever , and the pleasure in being outside lessened considerably . 
Why does Mrs. Yeobright give parties of this sort ? Eustacia asked , a little surprised to hear merriment so pronounced . 
It is not one of her bettermost parlour parties . 
She's asked the plain neighbours and workpeople without drawing any lines , just to give 'em a good supper and such like . 
Her son and she wait upon the folks . 
I see , said Eustacia . 
'Tis the last strain , I think , said Saint George , with his ear to the panel . 
A young man and woman have just swung into this corner , and he's saying to her , 'Ah , the pity 'tis over for us this time , my own . 
Thank God , said the Turkish Knight , stamping , and taking from the wall the conventional lance that each of the mummers carried . 
Her boots being thinner than those of the young men , the hoar had damped her feet and made them cold . 
Upon my song 'tis another ten minutes for us , said the Valiant Soldier , looking through the keyhole as the tune modulated into another without stopping . 
Grandfer Cantle is standing in this corner , waiting his turn . 
'Twon't be long 'tis a six handed reel , said the Doctor . 
Why not go in , dancing or no ? They sent for us , said the Saracen . 
Certainly not , said Eustacia authoritatively , as she paced smartly up and down from door to gate to warm herself . 
We should burst into the middle of them and stop the dance , and that would be unmannerly . 
He thinks himself somebody because he has had a bit more schooling than we , said the Doctor . 
You may go to the deuce ! said Eustacia . 
There was a whispered conversation between three or four of them , and one turned to her . 
Will you tell us one thing ? he said , not without gentleness . 
Be you Miss Vye ? We think you must be . 
You may think what you like , said Eustacia slowly . 
But honourable lads will not tell tales upon a lady . 
We'll say nothing , miss . 
Thank you , she replied . 
At this moment the fiddles finished off with a screech , and the serpent emitted a last note that nearly lifted the roof . 
Ah , the mummers , the mummers ! cried several guests at once . 
Clear a space for the mummers . 
The guests were now arranging themselves at one end of the room , the fiddler was mending a string , the serpent player was emptying his mouthpiece , and the play began . 
First of those outside the Valiant Soldier entered , in the interest of Saint George Here come I , the Valiant Soldier Slasher is my name and so on . 
This speech concluded with a challenge to the infidel , at the end of which it was Eustacia's duty to enter as the Turkish Knight . 
She , with the rest who were not yet on , had hitherto remained in the moonlight which streamed under the porch . 
On the further side of a table bearing candles she could faintly discern faces , and that was all . 
Being wounded , the Knight fell upon one knee , according to the direction . 
A direct fall from upright to horizontal , which was the end of the other fighting characters , was not an elegant or decorous part for a girl . 
But it was easy to die like a Turk , by a dogged decline . 
Another part of the room soon riveted her gaze . 
At the other side of the chimney stood the settle , which is the necessary supplement to a fire so open that nothing less than a strong breeze will carry up the smoke . 
It is , to the hearths of old fashioned cavernous fireplaces , what the east belt of trees is to the exposed country estate , or the north wall to the garden . 
Outside the settle candles gutter , locks of hair wave , young women shiver , and old men sneeze . 
It was , however , not with those who sat in the settle that Eustacia was concerned . 
A face showed itself with marked distinctness against the dark tanned wood of the upper part . 
The owner , who was leaning against the settle's outer end , was Clement Yeobright , or Clym , as he was called here she knew it could be nobody else . 
The spectacle constituted an area of two feet in Rembrandt's intensest manner . 
A strange power in the lounger's appearance lay in the fact that , though his whole figure was visible , the observer's eye was only aware of his face . 
To one of middle age the countenance was that of a young man , though a youth might hardly have seen any necessity for the term of immaturity . 
But it was really one of those faces which convey less the idea of so many years as its age than of so much experience as its store . 
The face was well shaped , even excellently . 
But the mind within was beginning to use it as a mere waste tablet whereon to trace its idiosyncrasies as they developed themselves . 
Had Heaven preserved Yeobright from a wearing habit of meditation , people would have said , A handsome man . 
Had his brain unfolded under sharper contours they would have said , A thoughtful man . 
But an inner strenuousness was preying upon an outer symmetry , and they rated his look as singular . 
Hence people who began by beholding him ended by perusing him . 
His countenance was overlaid with legible meanings . 
He already showed that thought is a disease of flesh , and indirectly bore evidence that ideal physical beauty is incompatible with emotional development and a full recognition of the coil of things . 
When standing before certain men the philosopher regrets that thinkers are but perishable tissue , the artist that perishable tissue has to think . 
Thus to deplore , each from his point of view , the mutually destructive interdependence of spirit and flesh would have been instinctive with these in critically observing Yeobright . 
As for his look , it was a natural cheerfulness striving against depression from without , and not quite succeeding . 
The look suggested isolation , but it revealed something more . 
As is usual with bright natures , the deity that lies ignominiously chained within an ephemeral human carcase shone out of him like a ray . 
The effect upon Eustacia was palpable . 
The extraordinary pitch of excitement that she had reached beforehand would , indeed , have caused her to be influenced by the most commonplace man . 
She was troubled at Yeobright's presence . 
The remainder of the play ended the Saracen's head was cut off , and Saint George stood as victor . 
Nobody commented , any more than they would have commented on the fact of mushrooms coming in autumn or snowdrops in spring . 
They took the piece as phlegmatically as did the actors themselves . 
It was a phase of cheerfulness which was , as a matter of course , to be passed through every Christmas and there was no more to be said . 
Afterwards the door opened , and Fairway appeared on the threshold , accompanied by Christian and another . 
They had been waiting outside for the conclusion of the play , as the players had waited for the conclusion of the dance . 
Come in , come in , said Mrs. Yeobright and Clym went forward to welcome them . 
How is it you are so late ? Grandfer Cantle has been here ever so long , and we thought you'd have come with him , as you live so near one another . 
I told him 'twas barely decent in a' old man to come so oversoon but words be wind . 
Fairway had meanwhile concluded a critical gaze at Yeobright . 
You too have altered , and for the better , I think Timothy , said Yeobright , surveying the firm figure of Fairway . 
Master Yeobright , look me over too . 
You haven't changed much , said Yeobright . 
If there's any difference , Grandfer is younger , appended Fairway decisively . 
And yet not my own doing , and I feel no pride in it , said the pleased ancient . 
But I can't be cured of my vagaries them I plead guilty to . 
Yes , Master Cantle always was that , as we know . 
But I am nothing by the side of you , Mister Clym . 
Nor any o' us , said Humphrey , in a low rich tone of admiration , not intended to reach anybody's ears . 
And even as 'tis we all look a little scammish beside him . 
You ought to have seen me in four ! 'Tis his mother's side where Master Clym's figure comes from , bless ye , said Timothy . 
I know'd her brothers well . 
Longer coffins were never made in the whole country of South Wessex , and 'tis said that poor George's knees were crumpled up a little e'en as 'twas . 
Coffins , where ? inquired Christian , drawing nearer . 
Have the ghost of one appeared to anybody , Master Fairway ? No , no . 
Don't let your mind so mislead your ears , Christian and be a man , said Timothy reproachfully . 
But now I think o't my shadder last night seemed just the shape of a coffin . 
Faith , I was never afeard of nothing except Boney , or I shouldn't ha' been the soldier I was . 
To this invitation Father Christmas , in the name of them all , readily agreed . 
Eustacia was happy in the opportunity of staying a little longer . 
The cold and frosty night without was doubly frigid to her . 
But the lingering was not without its difficulties . 
Mrs. Yeobright , for want of room in the larger apartment , placed a bench for the mummers halfway through the pantry door , which opened from the sitting room . 
Here they seated themselves in a row , the door being left open thus they were still virtually in the same apartment . 
The mummers doffed their helmets , and began to eat and drink . 
But you will surely have some ? said Clym to the Turkish Knight , as he stood before that warrior , tray in hand . 
She had refused , and still sat covered , only the sparkle of her eyes being visible between the ribbons which covered her face . 
None , thank you , replied Eustacia . 
He's quite a youngster , said the Saracen apologetically , and you must excuse him . 
He's not one of the old set , but have jined us because t'other couldn't come . 
But he will take something ? persisted Yeobright . 
Try a glass of mead or elder wine . 
Yes , you had better try that , said the Saracen . 
It will keep the cold out going home along . 
Though Eustacia could not eat without uncovering her face she could drink easily enough beneath her disguise . 
The elder wine was accordingly accepted , and the glass vanished inside the ribbons . 
At moments during this performance Eustacia was half in doubt about the security of her position yet it had a fearful joy . 
Once let a maiden admit the possibility of her being stricken with love for someone at a certain hour and place , and the thing is as good as done . 
If such a mysterious emanation ever was projected by the emotions of an earthly woman upon their object , it must have signified Eustacia's presence to Yeobright now . 
He looked at her wistfully , then seemed to fall into a reverie , as if he were forgetting what he observed . 
The momentary situation ended , he passed on , and Eustacia sipped her wine without knowing what she drank . 
The man for whom she had pre determined to nourish a passion went into the small room , and across it to the further extremity . 
Eustacia , partly from shyness , had chosen the midmost seat , which thus commanded a view of the interior of the pantry as well as the room containing the guests . 
When Clym passed down the pantry her eyes followed him in the gloom which prevailed there . 
At the remote end was a door which , just as he was about to open it for himself , was opened by somebody within and light streamed forth . 
The person was Thomasin , with a candle , looking anxious , pale , and interesting . 
Yeobright appeared glad to see her , and pressed her hand . 
That's right , Tamsie , he said heartily , as though recalled to himself by the sight of her , you have decided to come down . 
I am glad of it . 
Hush no , no , she said quickly . 
I only came to speak to you . 
But why not join us ? I cannot . 
At least I would rather not . 
I am not well enough , and we shall have plenty of time together now you are going to be home a good long holiday . 
It isn't nearly so pleasant without you . 
Are you really ill ? Just a little , my old cousin here , she said , playfully sweeping her hand across her heart . 
Ah , Mother should have asked somebody else to be present tonight , perhaps ? O no , indeed . 
The heat flew to Eustacia's head and cheeks . 
Eustacia felt a wild jealousy of Thomasin on the instant . 
Clym's boyish love for her might have languished , but it might easily be revived again . 
Eustacia was nettled by her own contrivances . 
Nobody here respects me , she said . 
She had overlooked the fact that , in coming as a boy among other boys , she would be treated as a boy . 
The slight , though of her own causing , and self explanatory , she was unable to dismiss as unwittingly shown , so sensitive had the situation made her . 
Women have done much for themselves in histrionic dress . 
But the Turkish Knight was denied even the chance of achieving this by the fluttering ribbons which she dared not brush aside . 
Yeobright returned to the room without his cousin . 
When within two or three feet of Eustacia he stopped , as if again arrested by a thought . 
He was gazing at her . 
She looked another way , disconcerted , and wondered how long this purgatory was to last . 
After lingering a few seconds he passed on again . 
To court their own discomfiture by love is a common instinct with certain perfervid women . 
Conflicting sensations of love , fear , and shame reduced Eustacia to a state of the utmost uneasiness . 
To escape was her great and immediate desire . 
The calm , lone scene reassured her . 
She went forward to the palings and leant over them , looking at the moon . 
She had stood thus but a little time when the door again opened . 
Expecting to see the remainder of the band Eustacia turned but no Clym Yeobright came out as softly as she had done , and closed the door behind him . 
He advanced and stood beside her . 
I have an odd opinion , he said , and should like to ask you a question . 
Are you a woman or am I wrong ? I am a woman . 
His eyes lingered on her with great interest . 
Do girls often play as mummers now ? They never used to . 
Why did you ? To get excitement and shake off depression , she said in low tones . 
What depressed you ? Life . 
That's a cause of depression a good many have to put up with . 
And do you find excitement ? asked Clym at last . 
At this moment , perhaps . 
Then you are vexed at being discovered ? Yes though I thought I might be . 
I would gladly have asked you to our party had I known you wished to come . 
Have I ever been acquainted with you in my youth ? Never . 
Won't you come in again , and stay as long as you like ? No. I wish not to be further recognized . 
Well , you are safe with me . 
After remaining in thought a minute he added gently , I will not intrude upon you longer . 
It is a strange way of meeting , and I will not ask why I find a cultivated woman playing such a part as this . 
Eustacia , warmed with an inner fire , could not wait for her companions after this . 
She flung back the ribbons from her face , opened the gate , and at once struck into the heath . 
She did not hasten along . 
A more important subject than that of getting indoors now engrossed her . 
Yeobright , if he had the least curiosity , would infallibly discover her name . 
What then ? She first felt a sort of exultation at the way in which the adventure had terminated , even though at moments between her exultations she was abashed and blushful . 
Then this consideration recurred to chill her What was the use of her exploit ? She was at present a total stranger to the Yeobright family . 
The unreasonable nimbus of romance with which she had encircled that man might be her misery . 
She reached the wicket at Mistover Knap , but before opening it she turned and faced the heath once more . 
The form of Rainbarrow stood above the hills , and the moon stood above Rainbarrow . 
The air was charged with silence and frost . 
The scene reminded Eustacia of a circumstance which till that moment she had totally forgotten . 
She had promised to meet Wildeve by the Barrow this very night at eight , to give a final answer to his pleading for an elopement . 
She herself had fixed the evening and the hour . 
He had probably come to the spot , waited there in the cold , and been greatly disappointed . 
Well , so much the better it did not hurt him , she said serenely . 
Wildeve had at present the rayless outline of the sun through smoked glass , and she could say such things as that with the greatest facility . 
She remained deeply pondering and Thomasin's winning manner towards her cousin arose again upon Eustacia's mind . 
O that she had been married to Damon before this ! she said . 
She threw off her trappings in the outhouse , rolled them up , and went indoors to her chamber . 
Search of events one would think you were one of the bucks I knew at one and twenty . 
If I were living in a town my whole time would be taken up in looking after you . 
I fully expected you would have been home when I returned from the Woman . 
I won't conceal what I did . 
I wanted an adventure , and I went with the mummers . 
I played the part of the Turkish Knight . 
No , never ? Ha , ha ! Good gad ! I didn't expect it of you , Eustacia . 
It was my first performance , and it certainly will be my last . 
Now I have told you and remember it is a secret . 
But , Eustacia , you never did ha ! ha ! Dammy , how 'twould have pleased me forty years ago ! But remember , no more of it , my girl . 
You may walk on the heath night or day , as you choose , so that you don't bother me but no figuring in breeches again . 
You need have no fear for me , Grandpapa . 
When the farmers who had wished to buy in a new stock of reddle during the last month had inquired where Venn was to be found , people replied , On Egdon Heath . 
Day after day the answer was the same . 
The position was central and occasionally desirable . 
Eustacia looked at the lonely man . 
Wildeve had told her at their last meeting that Venn had been thrust forward by Mrs. Yeobright as one ready and anxious to take his place as Thomasin's betrothed . 
His figure was perfect , his face young and well outlined , his eye bright , his intelligence keen , and his position one which he could readily better if he chose . 
Eustacia was not long in guessing that poor Mrs. Yeobright , in her anxiety for her niece's future , had mentioned this lover to stimulate the zeal of the other . 
Eustacia was on the side of the Yeobrights now , and entered into the spirit of the aunt's desire . 
Good morning , miss , said the reddleman , taking off his cap of hareskin , and apparently bearing her no ill will from recollection of their last meeting . 
Good morning , reddleman , she said , hardly troubling to lift her heavily shaded eyes to his . 
I did not know you were so near . 
Brambles , though churlish when handled , are kindly shelter in early winter , being the latest of the deciduous bushes to lose their leaves . 
The roof and chimney of Venn's caravan showed behind the tracery and tangles of the brake . 
You remain near this part ? she asked with more interest . 
Yes , I have business here . 
Not altogether the selling of reddle ? It has nothing to do with that . 
It has to do with Miss Yeobright ? Her face seemed to ask for an armed peace , and he therefore said frankly , Yes , miss it is on account of her . 
On account of your approaching marriage with her ? Venn flushed through his stain . 
Don't make sport of me , Miss Vye , he said . 
It isn't true ? Certainly not . 
She was thus convinced that the reddleman was a mere pis aller in Mrs. Yeobright's mind one , moreover , who had not even been informed of his promotion to that lowly standing . 
Owing to the necessary windings of his course his back was at present towards them . 
She glanced quickly round to escape that man there was only one way . 
Turning to Venn , she said , Would you allow me to rest a few minutes in your van ? The banks are damp for sitting on . 
Certainly , miss I'll make a place for you . 
She followed him behind the dell of brambles to his wheeled dwelling into which Venn mounted , placing the three legged stool just within the door . 
Eustacia bounded into the vehicle and sat on the stool , ensconced from view on the side towards the trackway . 
Eustacia stretched her neck forward till she caught a glimpse of a receding back and shoulders and she felt a wretched twinge of misery , she knew not why . 
When Eustacia descended to proceed on her way the reddleman came near . 
That was Mr. Wildeve who passed , miss , he said slowly , and expressed by his face that he expected her to feel vexed at having been sitting unseen . 
Yes , I saw him coming up the hill , replied Eustacia . 
I am glad to hear that you can ask it , said the reddleman bluntly . 
And , now I think of it , it agrees with what I saw last night . 
Ah what was that ? Eustacia wished to leave him , but wished to know . 
Mr. Wildeve stayed at Rainbarrow a long time waiting for a lady who didn't come . 
You waited too , it seems ? Yes , I always do . 
I was glad to see him disappointed . 
He will be there again tonight . 
The truth is , reddleman , that that lady , so far from wishing to stand in the way of Thomasin's marriage with Mr. Wildeve , would be very glad to promote it . 
Indeed , miss , he replied . 
How do you know that Mr. Wildeve will come to Rainbarrow again tonight ? she asked . 
I heard him say to himself that he would . 
He's in a regular temper . 
Eustacia looked for a moment what she felt , and she murmured , lifting her deep dark eyes anxiously to his , I wish I knew what to do . 
I don't want to be uncivil to him but I don't wish to see him again and I have some few little things to return to him . 
That would be the most straightforward way of letting him know your mind . 
Very well , said Eustacia . 
Come towards my house , and I will bring it out to you . 
She went on , and as the path was an infinitely small parting in the shaggy locks of the heath , the reddleman followed exactly in her trail . 
She saw from a distance that the captain was on the bank sweeping the horizon with his telescope and bidding Venn to wait where he stood she entered the house alone . 
Are you as anxious as ever to help on her marriage ? Venn was a little moved . 
I would sooner have married her myself , he said in a low voice . 
But what I feel is that if she cannot be happy without him I will do my duty in helping her to get him , as a man ought . 
Eustacia looked curiously at the singular man who spoke thus . 
Then we are both of one mind at last , she said . 
Yes , replied Venn gloomily . 
But if you would tell me , miss , why you take such an interest in her , I should be easier . 
It is so sudden and strange . 
Eustacia appeared at a loss . 
I cannot tell you that , reddleman , she said coldly . 
He pocketed the letter , and , bowing to Eustacia , went away . 
Rainbarrow had again become blended with night when Wildeve ascended the long acclivity at its base . 
On his reaching the top a shape grew up from the earth immediately behind him . 
It was that of Eustacia's emissary . 
He slapped Wildeve on the shoulder . 
The feverish young inn keeper and ex engineer started like Satan at the touch of Ithuriel's spear . 
The meeting is always at eight o'clock , at this place , said Venn , and here we are we three . 
We three ? said Wildeve , looking quickly round . 
Yes you , and I , and she . 
He held up the letter and parcel . 
I don't quite see what this means , he said . 
How do you come here ? There must be some mistake . 
It will be cleared from your mind when you have read the letter . 
The reddleman struck a light , kindled an inch of tallow candle which he had brought , and sheltered it with his cap . 
Who are you ? said Wildeve , discerning by the candle light an obscure rubicundity of person in his companion . 
You are the reddleman I saw on the hill this morning why , you are the man who Please read the letter . 
If you had come from the other one I shouldn't have been surprised , murmured Wildeve as he opened the letter and read . 
After some thought I have decided once and for all that we must hold no further communication . 
The more I consider the matter the more I am convinced that there must be an end to our acquaintance . 
The little articles you gave me in the early part of our friendship are returned by the bearer of this letter . 
They should rightly have been sent back when I first heard of your engagement to her . 
By the time that Wildeve reached her name the blankness with which he had read the first half of the letter intensified to mortification . 
I am made a great fool of , one way and another , he said pettishly . 
Do you know what is in this letter ? The reddleman hummed a tune . 
Can't you answer me ? asked Wildeve warmly . 
Ru um tum tum , sang the reddleman . 
Wildeve stood looking on the ground beside Venn's feet , till he allowed his eyes to travel upwards over Diggory's form , as illuminated by the candle , to his head and face . 
Ha ha ! Well , I suppose I deserve it , considering how I have played with them both , he said at last , as much to himself as to Venn . 
But of all the odd things that ever I knew , the oddest is that you should so run counter to your own interests as to bring this to me . 
'Twas your interest not to do anything which would send me courting Thomasin again , now she has accepted you or something like it . 
Mrs. Yeobright says you are to marry her . 
'Tisn't true , then ? Good Lord ! I heard of this before , but didn't believe it . 
When did she say so ? Wildeve began humming as the reddleman had done . 
I don't believe it now , cried Venn . 
Ru um tum tum , sang Wildeve . 
O Lord how we can imitate ! said Venn contemptuously . 
I'll go straight to her . 
Diggory withdrew with an emphatic step , Wildeve's eye passing over his form in withering derision , as if he were no more than a heath cropper . 
When the reddleman's figure could no longer be seen , Wildeve himself descended and plunged into the rayless hollow of the vale . 
To lose the two women he who had been the well beloved of both was too ironical an issue to be endured . 
He could only decently save himself by Thomasin and once he became her husband , Eustacia's repentance , he thought , would set in for a long and bitter term . 
It was no wonder that Wildeve , ignorant of the new man at the back of the scene , should have supposed Eustacia to be playing a part . 
Meanwhile Diggory Venn had returned to his van , where he stood looking thoughtfully into the stove . 
A new vista was opened up to him . 
In this he saw little difficulty . 
He could not afford to wait till the next day before seeing Thomasin and detailing his plan . 
Closing the door and fastening it with a padlock , Venn set off towards Blooms End . 
He had reached the white palings and laid his hand upon the gate when the door of the house opened , and quickly closed again . 
A female form had glided in . 
At the same time a man , who had seemingly been standing with the woman in the porch , came forward from the house till he was face to face with Venn . 
Man alive , you've been quick at it , said Diggory sarcastically . 
And you slow , as you will find , said Wildeve . 
And , lowering his voice , you may as well go back again now . 
I've claimed her , and got her . 
Good night , reddleman ! Thereupon Wildeve walked away . 
Venn's heart sank within him , though it had not risen unduly high . 
He stood leaning over the palings in an indecisive mood for nearly a quarter of an hour . 
Then he went up the garden path , knocked , and asked for Mrs. Yeobright . 
Instead of requesting him to enter she came to the porch . 
A discourse was carried on between them in low measured tones for the space of ten minutes or more . 
At the end of the time Mrs. Yeobright went in , and Venn sadly retraced his steps into the heath . 
Firmness Is Discovered in a Gentle Heart On that evening the interior of Blooms End , though cosy and comfortable , had been rather silent . 
Clym Yeobright was not at home . 
Since the Christmas party he had gone on a few days' visit to a friend about ten miles off . 
The shadowy form seen by Venn to part from Wildeve in the porch , and quickly withdraw into the house , was Thomasin's . 
I don't like your going out after dark alone , Tamsin , said her aunt quietly , without looking up from her work . 
I have only been just outside the door . 
Well ? inquired Mrs. Yeobright , struck by a change in the tone of Thomasin's voice , and observing her . 
Thomasin's cheek was flushed to a pitch far beyond that which it had reached before her troubles , and her eyes glittered . 
It was HE who knocked , she said . 
He wishes the marriage to be at once . 
Indeed ! What is he anxious ? Mrs. Yeobright directed a searching look upon her niece . 
Why did not Mr. Wildeve come in ? He did not wish to . 
You are not friends with him , he says . 
He would like the wedding to be the day after tomorrow , quite privately at the church of his parish not at ours . 
Oh ! And what did you say ? I agreed to it , Thomasin answered firmly . 
I am a practical woman now . 
I don't believe in hearts at all . 
I would marry him under any circumstances since since Clym's letter . 
How could such a gross falsehood have arisen ? It is said that one should go abroad to hear news of home , and I appear to have done it . 
Of course I contradict the tale everywhere but it is very vexing , and I wonder how it could have originated . 
It is too ridiculous that such a girl as Thomasin could so mortify us as to get jilted on the wedding day . 
What has she done ? Yes , Mrs. Yeobright said sadly , putting down the letter . 
If you think you can marry him , do so . 
And since Mr. Wildeve wishes it to be unceremonious , let it be that too . 
It is all in your own hands now . 
My power over your welfare came to an end when you left this house to go with him to Anglebury . 
Don't say that and dishearten me . 
You are right I will not . 
I do not plead for him , Aunt . 
Human nature is weak , and I am not a blind woman to insist that he is perfect . 
I did think so , but I don't now . 
But I know my course , and you know that I know it . 
I hope for the best . 
And so do I , and we will both continue to , said Mrs. Yeobright , rising and kissing her . 
Then the wedding , if it comes off , will be on the morning of the very day Clym comes home ? Yes . 
I decided that it ought to be over before he came . 
After that you can look him in the face , and so can I. Our concealments will matter nothing . 
After once forbidding the banns I think I can do no less . 
I don't think I will ask you to come , said Thomasin reluctantly , but with decision . 
It would be unpleasant , I am almost sure . 
Better let there be only strangers present , and none of my relations at all . 
I would rather have it so . 
I do not wish to do anything which may touch your credit , and I feel that I should be uncomfortable if you were there , after what has passed . 
I am only your niece , and there is no necessity why you should concern yourself more about me . 
Well , he has beaten us , her aunt said . 
It really seems as if he had been playing with you in this way in revenge for my humbling him as I did by standing up against him at first . 
O no , Aunt , murmured Thomasin . 
They said no more on the subject then . 
Diggory Venn's knock came soon after and Mrs. Yeobright , on returning from her interview with him in the porch , carelessly observed , Another lover has come to ask for you . 
No ? Yes , that queer young man Venn . 
Asks to pay his addresses to me ? Yes and I told him he was too late . 
Thomasin looked silently into the candle flame . 
Poor Diggory ! she said , and then aroused herself to other things . 
The next day was passed in mere mechanical deeds of preparation , both the women being anxious to immerse themselves in these to escape the emotional aspect of the situation . 
Aunt and niece stood together in the bedroom where the bride was dressing . 
The sun , where it could catch it , made a mirror of Thomasin's hair , which she always wore braided . 
It was braided according to a calendar system the more important the day the more numerous the strands in the braid . 
On ordinary working days she braided it in threes on ordinary Sundays in fours at Maypolings , gipsyings , and the like , she braided it in fives . 
Years ago she had said that when she married she would braid it in sevens . 
She had braided it in sevens today . 
I have been thinking that I will wear my blue silk after all , she said . 
It is my wedding day , even though there may be something sad about the time . 
I mean , she added , anxious to correct any wrong impression , not sad in itself , but in its having had great disappointment and trouble before it . 
Mrs. Yeobright breathed in a way which might have been called a sigh . 
I almost wish Clym had been at home , she said . 
Of course you chose the time because of his absence . 
You are a practical little woman , said Mrs. Yeobright , smiling . 
I wish you and he no , I don't wish anything . 
There , it is nine o'clock , she interrupted , hearing a whizz and a dinging downstairs . 
I told Damon I would leave at nine , said Thomasin , hastening out of the room . 
It is necessary , said Thomasin . 
At any rate , added her aunt with forced cheerfulness , I shall call upon you this afternoon , and bring the cake with me . 
If Clym has returned by that time he will perhaps come too . 
I wish to show Mr. Wildeve that I bear him no ill will . 
Let the past be forgotten . 
Well , God bless you ! There , I don't believe in old superstitions , but I'll do it . 
She threw a slipper at the retreating figure of the girl , who turned , smiled , and went on again . 
A few steps further , and she looked back . 
Did you call me , Aunt ? she tremulously inquired . 
Good bye ! Moved by an uncontrollable feeling as she looked upon Mrs. Yeobright's worn , wet face , she ran back , when her aunt came forward , and they met again . 
O Tamsie , said the elder , weeping , I don't like to let you go . 
I I am Thomasin began , giving way likewise . 
But , quelling her grief , she said Good bye ! again and went on . 
But the worst feature in the case was one which did not appear in the landscape it was the man . 
To own to the partial truth of what he had heard would be distressing as long as the humiliating position resulting from the event was unimproved . 
It was only after a second and successful journey to the altar that she could lift up her head and prove the failure of the first attempt a pure accident . 
She had not been gone from Blooms End more than half an hour when Yeobright came by the meads from the other direction and entered the house . 
I had an early breakfast , he said to his mother after greeting her . 
Now I could eat a little more . 
She looked at the clock . 
True ? Thomasin is gone to him today . 
Clym pushed away his breakfast . 
Then there is a scandal of some sort , and that's what's the matter with Thomasin . 
Was it this that made her ill ? Yes . 
Not a scandal a misfortune . 
I will tell you all about it , Clym . 
You must not be angry , but you must listen , and you'll find that what we have done has been done for the best . 
She then told him the circumstances . 
When she , therefore , proceeded to explain all he was greatly surprised and troubled . 
That's why she has gone to him they have arranged to be married this morning . 
But I can't understand it , said Yeobright , rising . 
I can see why you did not write to me after her unfortunate return home . 
But why didn't you let me know when the wedding was going to be the first time ? Well , I felt vexed with her just then . 
She seemed to me to be obstinate and when I found that you were nothing in her mind I vowed that she should be nothing in yours . 
It wouldn't have been bothering me . 
Mother , you did wrong . 
Of course , if they had married at that time in a proper manner , I should have told you at once . 
Tamsin actually being married while we are sitting here ! Yes . 
Unless some accident happens again , as it did the first time . 
It may , considering he's the same man . 
Yes , and I believe it will . 
Was it right to let her go ? Suppose Wildeve is really a bad fellow ? Then he won't come , and she'll come home again . 
You should have looked more into it . 
It is useless to say that , his mother answered with an impatient look of sorrow . 
You don't know how bad it has been here with us all these weeks , Clym . 
You don't know what a mortification anything of that sort is to a woman . 
You don't know the sleepless nights we've had in this house , and the almost bitter words that have passed between us since that Fifth of November . 
I hope never to pass seven such weeks again . 
No , he said slowly . 
Upon the whole I don't blame you . 
But just consider how sudden it seems to me . 
Here was I , knowing nothing and then I am told all at once that Tamsie is gone to be married . 
Well , I suppose there was nothing better to do . 
We had the party just the same was not that rather cruel to her ? It made no difference . 
I had arranged to give one , and it was not worth while to make more gloom than necessary . 
To begin by shutting ourselves up and telling you of Tamsin's misfortunes would have been a poor sort of welcome . 
I almost wish you had not had that party , he said and for other reasons . 
But I will tell you in a day or two . 
We must think of Tamsin now . 
I'll tell you what , said Yeobright again , in a tone which showed some slumbering feeling still . 
I don't think it kind to Tamsin to let her be married like this , and neither of us there to keep up her spirits or care a bit about her . 
She hasn't disgraced herself , or done anything to deserve that . 
It is bad enough that the wedding should be so hurried and unceremonious , without our keeping away from it in addition . 
Upon my soul , 'tis almost a shame . 
It is over by this time , said his mother with a sigh unless they were late , or he Then I shall be soon enough to see them come out . 
I don't quite like your keeping me in ignorance , Mother , after all . 
Really , I half hope he has failed to meet her ! And ruined her character ? Nonsense that wouldn't ruin Thomasin . 
He took up his hat and hastily left the house . 
Mrs. Yeobright looked rather unhappy , and sat still , deep in thought . 
But she was not long left alone . 
A few minutes later Clym came back again , and in his company came Diggory Venn . 
I find there isn't time for me to get there , said Clym . 
Is she married ? Mrs. Yeobright inquired , turning to the reddleman a face in which a strange strife of wishes , for and against , was apparent . 
How strange it sounds , murmured Clym . 
And he didn't disappoint her this time ? said Mrs. Yeobright . 
And there is now no slight on her name . 
I was hastening ath'art to tell you at once , as I saw you were not there . 
How came you to be there ? How did you know it ? she asked . 
I have been in that neighbourhood for some time , and I saw them go in , said the reddleman . 
Wildeve came up to the door , punctual as the clock . 
I didn't expect it of him . 
Who was there ? said Mrs. Yeobright . 
I stood right out of the way , and she did not see me . 
The reddleman spoke huskily , and looked into the garden . 
Who gave her away ? Miss Vye . 
How very remarkable ! Miss Vye ! It is to be considered an honour , I suppose ? Who's Miss Vye ? said Clym . 
Captain Vye's granddaughter , of Mistover Knap . 
A proud girl from Budmouth , said Mrs. Yeobright . 
One not much to my liking . 
People say she's a witch , but of course that's absurd . 
As soon as they had gone in I went to the door , feeling I should like to see it , as I knew her so well . 
I pulled off my boots because they were so noisy , and went up into the gallery . 
I saw then that the parson and clerk were already there . 
How came Miss Vye to have anything to do with it , if she was only on a walk that way ? Because there was nobody else . 
She had gone into the church just before me , not into the gallery . 
The parson looked round before beginning , and as she was the only one near he beckoned to her , and she went up to the rails . 
After that , when it came to signing the book , she pushed up her veil and signed and Tamsin seemed to thank her for her kindness . 
And then , said Diggory sadly , I came away , for her history as Tamsin Yeobright was over . 
I offered to go , said Mrs. Yeobright regretfully . 
But she said it was not necessary . 
Well , it is no matter , said the reddleman . 
The thing is done at last as it was meant to be at first , and God send her happiness . 
Now I'll wish you good morning . 
He placed his cap on his head and went out . 
From that instant of leaving Mrs. Yeobright's door , the reddleman was seen no more in or about Egdon Heath for a space of many months . 
When Thomasin was tremblingly engaged in signing her name Wildeve had flung towards Eustacia a glance that said plainly , I have punished you now . 
She had replied in a low tone and he little thought how truly You mistake it gives me sincerest pleasure to see her your wife today . 
book three THE FASCINATION My Mind to Me a Kingdom Is In Clym Yeobright's face could be dimly seen the typical countenance of the future . 
Should there be a classic period to art hereafter , its Pheidias may produce such faces . 
The truth seems to be that a long line of disillusive centuries has permanently displaced the Hellenic idea of life , or whatever it may be called . 
What the Greeks only suspected we know well what their Aeschylus imagined our nursery children feel . 
That old fashioned revelling in the general situation grows less and less possible as we uncover the defects of natural laws , and see the quandary that man is in by their operation . 
The lineaments which will get embodied in ideals based upon this new recognition will probably be akin to those of Yeobright . 
The observer's eye was arrested , not by his face as a picture , but by his face as a page not by what it was , but by what it recorded . 
His features were attractive in the light of symbols , as sounds intrinsically common become attractive in language , and as shapes intrinsically simple become interesting in writing . 
He had been a lad of whom something was expected . 
Beyond this all had been chaos . 
That he would be successful in an original way , or that he would go to the dogs in an original way , seemed equally probable . 
The only absolute certainty about him was that he would not stand still in the circumstances amid which he was born . 
There is an indefinite sense that he must be invading some region of singularity , good or bad . 
The devout hope is that he is doing well . 
The secret faith is that he is making a mess of it . 
Half a dozen comfortable market men , who were habitual callers at the Quiet Woman as they passed by in their carts , were partial to the topic . 
In fact , though they were not Egdon men , they could hardly avoid it while they sucked their long clay tubes and regarded the heath through the window . 
Clym had been so inwoven with the heath in his boyhood that hardly anybody could look upon it without thinking of him . 
The fact was that Yeobright's fame had spread to an awkward extent before he left home . 
It is bad when your fame outruns your means , said the Spanish Jesuit Gracian . 
At the age of six he had asked a Scripture riddle Who was the first man known to wear breeches ? and applause had resounded from the very verge of the heath . 
At seven he painted the Battle of Waterloo with tiger lily pollen and black currant juice , in the absence of water colours . 
By the time he reached twelve he had in this manner been heard of as artist and scholar for at least two miles round . 
Possibly Clym's fame , like Homer's , owed something to the accidents of his situation nevertheless famous he was . 
He grew up and was helped out in life . 
The details of this choice of a business for him it is not necessary to give . 
At the death of his father a neighbouring gentleman had kindly undertaken to give the boy a start , and this assumed the form of sending him to Budmouth . 
Yeobright did not wish to go there , but it was the only feasible opening . 
Thence he went to London and thence , shortly after , to Paris , where he had remained till now . 
Something being expected of him , he had not been at home many days before a great curiosity as to why he stayed on so long began to arise in the heath . 
The natural term of a holiday had passed , yet he still remained . 
On the Sunday morning following the week of Thomasin's marriage a discussion on this subject was in progress at a hair cutting before Fairway's house . 
On Egdon Heath Sunday proper did not begin till dinner time , and even then it was a somewhat battered specimen of the day . 
Summer and winter the scene was the same , unless the wind were more than usually blusterous , when the stool was shifted a few feet round the corner . 
A bleeding about the poll on Sunday afternoons was amply accounted for by the explanation . 
I have had my hair cut , you know . 
The conversation on Yeobright had been started by a distant view of the young man rambling leisurely across the heath before them . 
A man who is doing well elsewhere wouldn't bide here two or three weeks for nothing , said Fairway . 
He's got some project in 's head depend upon that . 
Well , 'a can't keep a diment shop here , said Sam . 
Before many more surmises could be indulged in Yeobright had come near and seeing the hair cutting group he turned aside to join them . 
Marching up , and looking critically at their faces for a moment , he said , without introduction , Now , folks , let me guess what you have been talking about . 
Ay , sure , if you will , said Sam . 
We were wondering what could keep you home here mollyhorning about when you have made such a world wide name for yourself in the nick nack trade now , that's the truth o't . 
I'll tell you , said Yeobright . 
I am not sorry to have the opportunity . 
I've come home because , all things considered , I can be a trifle less useless here than anywhere else . 
But I have only lately found this out . 
When I first got away from home I thought this place was not worth troubling about . 
I thought our life here was contemptible . 
To oil your boots instead of blacking them , to dust your coat with a switch instead of a brush was there ever anything more ridiculous ? I said . 
So 'tis so 'tis ! No , no you are wrong it isn't . 
Beg your pardon , we thought that was your maning ? Well , as my views changed my course became very depressing . 
I found that I was trying to be like people who had hardly anything in common with myself . 
I was endeavouring to put off one sort of life for another sort of life , which was not better than the life I had known before . 
True a sight different , said Fairway . 
Yes , Paris must be a taking place , said Humphrey . 
Grand shop winders , trumpets , and drums and here be we out of doors in all winds and weathers But you mistake me , pleaded Clym . 
All this was very depressing . 
But not so depressing as something I next perceived that my business was the idlest , vainest , most effeminate business that ever a man could be put to . 
That decided me I would give it up and try to follow some rational occupation among the people I knew best , and to whom I could be of most use . 
I have come home and this is how I mean to carry out my plan . 
I shall keep a school as near to Egdon as possible , so as to be able to walk over here and have a night school in my mother's house . 
But I must study a little at first , to get properly qualified . 
Now , neighbours , I must go . 
And Clym resumed his walk across the heath . 
He'll never carry it out in the world , said Fairway . 
In a few weeks he'll learn to see things otherwise . 
'Tis good hearted of the young man , said another . 
But , for my part , I think he had better mind his business . 
The New Course Causes Disappointment Yeobright loved his kind . 
He had a conviction that the want of most men was knowledge of a sort which brings wisdom rather than affluence . 
He wished to raise the class at the expense of individuals rather than individuals at the expense of the class . 
What was more , he was ready at once to be the first unit sacrificed . 
In passing from the bucolic to the intellectual life the intermediate stages are usually two at least , frequently many more and one of those stages is almost sure to be worldly advanced . 
We can hardly imagine bucolic placidity quickening to intellectual aims without imagining social aims as the transitional phase . 
Yeobright's local peculiarity was that in striving at high thinking he still cleaved to plain living nay , wild and meagre living in many respects , and brotherliness with clowns . 
He was a John the Baptist who took ennoblement rather than repentance for his text . 
Mentally he was in a provincial future , that is , he was in many points abreast with the central town thinkers of his date . 
Much of this development he may have owed to his studious life in Paris , where he had become acquainted with ethical systems popular at the time . 
In consequence of this relatively advanced position , Yeobright might have been called unfortunate . 
The rural world was not ripe for him . 
A man should be only partially before his time to be completely to the vanward in aspirations is fatal to fame . 
In the interests of renown the forwardness should lie chiefly in the capacity to handle things . 
Successful propagandists have succeeded because the doctrine they bring into form is that which their listeners have for some time felt without being able to shape . 
A man who advocates aesthetic effort and deprecates social effort is only likely to be understood by a class to which social effort has become a stale matter . 
Also , on the other hand , that it will never cause him to be applauded as a prophet , revered as a priest , or exalted as a king . 
Its usual blessings are happiness and mediocrity . 
It never would have allowed Yeobright to do such a ridiculous thing as throw up his business to benefit his fellow creatures . 
He walked along towards home without attending to paths . 
If anyone knew the heath well it was Clym . 
He was permeated with its scenes , with its substance , and with its odours . 
He might be said to be its product . 
Take all the varying hates felt by Eustacia Vye towards the heath , and translate them into loves , and you have the heart of Clym . 
He gazed upon the wide prospect as he walked , and was glad . 
To many persons this Egdon was a place which had slipped out of its century generations ago , to intrude as an uncouth object into this . 
It was an obsolete thing , and few cared to study it . 
He descended into the valley , and soon reached his home at Blooms End . 
His mother was snipping dead leaves from the window plants . 
She looked up at him as if she did not understand the meaning of his long stay with her her face had worn that look for several days . 
He could perceive that the curiosity which had been shown by the hair cutting group amounted in his mother to concern . 
But she had asked no question with her lips , even when the arrival of his trunk suggested that he was not going to leave her soon . 
Her silence besought an explanation of him more loudly than words . 
I am not going back to Paris again , Mother , he said . 
At least , in my old capacity . 
I have given up the business . 
Mrs. Yeobright turned in pained surprise . 
I thought something was amiss , because of the boxes . 
I wonder you did not tell me sooner . 
I ought to have done it . 
But I have been in doubt whether you would be pleased with my plan . 
I was not quite clear on a few points myself . 
I am going to take an entirely new course . 
I am astonished , Clym . 
How can you want to do better than you've been doing ? Very easily . 
But I shall not do better in the way you mean I suppose it will be called doing worse . 
But I hate that business of mine , and I want to do some worthy thing before I die . 
As a schoolmaster I think to do it a school master to the poor and ignorant , to teach them what nobody else will . 
Your fancies will be your ruin , Clym . 
Mrs. Yeobright spoke calmly , but the force of feeling behind the words was but too apparent to one who knew her as well as her son did . 
No more was said on the subject till the end of dinner . 
His mother then began , as if there had been no interval since the morning . 
It disturbs me , Clym , to find that you have come home with such thoughts as those . 
I hadn't the least idea that you meant to go backward in the world by your own free choice . 
I cannot help it , said Clym , in a troubled tone . 
Mother , I hate the flashy business . 
I have been troubled in my mind about it all the year , and the end is that I cannot do it any more . 
For one thing , my body does not require much of me . 
I cannot enjoy delicacies good things are wasted upon me . 
Well , I ought to turn that defect to advantage , and by being able to do without what other people require I can spend what such things cost upon anybody else . 
She spoke with less assurance . 
And yet you might have been a wealthy man if you had only persevered . 
No , said her son , I am not weary of that , though I am weary of what you mean by it . 
The silence was broken by the clash of the garden gate , a tap at the door , and its opening . 
Christian Cantle appeared in the room in his Sunday clothes . 
I assure ye it made me shake like a driven leaf . 
Do ye think any harm will come o't ? Well what ? This morning at church we was all standing up , and the pa'son said , 'Let us pray . 
She've waited for this chance for weeks , so as to draw her blood and put an end to the bewitching of Susan's children that has been carried on so long . 
Sue followed her into church , sat next to her , and as soon as she could find a chance in went the stocking needle into my lady's arm . 
Good heaven , how horrid ! said Mrs. Yeobright . 
But they carried her out into the air , 'tis said but when they looked round for Sue she was gone . 
'Tis a cruel thing , said Yeobright . 
Yes , said his mother . 
The nation ought to look into it , said Christian . 
Here's Humphrey coming , I think . 
Well , have ye heard the news ? But I see you have . 
'Tis a very strange thing that whenever one of Egdon folk goes to church some rum job or other is sure to be doing . 
The last time one of us was there was when neighbour Fairway went in the fall and that was the day you forbad the banns , Mrs. Yeobright . 
Has this cruelly treated girl been able to walk home ? said Clym . 
They say she got better , and went home very well . 
And now I've told it I must be moving homeward myself . 
And I , said Humphrey . 
Truly now we shall see if there's anything in what folks say about her . 
Later in the day Sam , the turf cutter , entered . 
I've come a borrowing , Mrs. Yeobright . 
I suppose you have heard what's been happening to the beauty on the hill ? Yes , Sam half a dozen have been telling us . 
Yes , tolerably well favoured , Sam replied . 
Lord ! all the country owns that 'tis one of the strangest things in the world that such a woman should have come to live up there . 
Dark or fair ? Now , though I've seen her twenty times , that's a thing I cannot call to mind . 
Darker than Tamsin , murmured Mrs. Yeobright . 
A woman who seems to care for nothing at all , as you may say . 
She is melancholy , then ? inquired Clym . 
She mopes about by herself , and don't mix in with the people . 
Is she a young lady inclined for adventures ? Not to my knowledge . 
Doesn't join in with the lads in their games , to get some sort of excitement in this lonely place ? No. Mumming , for instance ? No. Her notions be different . 
I should rather say her thoughts were far away from here , with lords and ladies she'll never know , and mansions she'll never see again . 
Observing that Clym appeared singularly interested Mrs. Yeobright said rather uneasily to Sam , You see more in her than most of us do . 
Miss Vye is to my mind too idle to be charming . 
I have never heard that she is of any use to herself or to other people . 
Good girls don't get treated as witches even on Egdon . 
Nonsense that proves nothing either way , said Yeobright . 
Well , of course I don't understand such niceties , said Sam , withdrawing from a possibly unpleasant argument and what she is we must wait for time to tell us . 
The business that I have really called about is this , to borrow the longest and strongest rope you have . 
We have three cart ropes already , but they won't reach to the bottom . 
Mrs. Yeobright told him that he might have whatever ropes he could find in the outhouse , and Sam went out to search . 
When he passed by the door Clym joined him , and accompanied him to the gate . 
Is this young witch lady going to stay long at Mistover ? he asked . 
What a cruel shame to ill use her , She must have suffered greatly more in mind than in body . 
'Twas a graceless trick such a handsome girl , too . 
You ought to see her , Mr. Yeobright , being a young man come from far , and with a little more to show for your years than most of us . 
Do you think she would like to teach children ? said Clym . 
Quite a different sort of body from that , I reckon . 
O , it was merely something which occurred to me . 
It would of course be necessary to see her and talk it over not an easy thing , by the way , for my family and hers are not very friendly . 
I'll tell you how you mid see her , Mr. Yeobright , said Sam . 
We are going to grapple for the bucket at six o'clock tonight at her house , and you could lend a hand . 
There's five or six coming , but the well is deep , and another might be useful , if you don't mind appearing in that shape . 
She's sure to be walking round . 
I'll think of it , said Yeobright and they parted . 
He thought of it a good deal but nothing more was said about Eustacia inside the house at that time . 
Whether this romantic martyr to superstition and the melancholy mummer he had conversed with under the full moon were one and the same person remained as yet a problem . 
The First Act in a Timeworn Drama The afternoon was fine , and Yeobright walked on the heath for an hour with his mother . 
When they reached the lofty ridge which divided the valley of Blooms End from the adjoining valley they stood still and looked round . 
The Quiet Woman Inn was visible on the low margin of the heath in one direction , and afar on the other hand rose Mistover Knap . 
You mean to call on Thomasin ? he inquired . 
But you need not come this time , said his mother . 
In that case I'll branch off here , Mother . 
I am going to Mistover . 
Mrs. Yeobright turned to him inquiringly . 
I am going to help them get the bucket out of the captain's well , he continued . 
As it is so very deep I may be useful . 
And I should like to see this Miss Vye not so much for her good looks as for another reason . 
Must you go ? his mother asked . 
There is no help for it , murmured Clym's mother gloomily as he withdrew . 
They are sure to see each other . 
I wish Sam would carry his news to other houses than mine . 
Clym's retreating figure got smaller and smaller as it rose and fell over the hillocks on his way . 
He is tender hearted , said Mrs. Yeobright to herself while she watched him otherwise it would matter little . 
How he's going on ! He was , indeed , walking with a will over the furze , as straight as a line , as if his life depended upon it . 
His mother drew a long breath , and , abandoning the visit to Thomasin , turned back . 
On drawing near to the furze covered bank and ditch which fortified the captain's dwelling he could hear voices within , signifying that operations had been already begun . 
At the side entrance gate he stopped and looked over . 
Half a dozen able bodied men were standing in a line from the well mouth , holding a rope which passed over the well roller into the depths below . 
Now , silence , folks , said Fairway . 
The talking ceased , and Fairway gave a circular motion to the rope , as if he were stirring batter . 
At the end of a minute a dull splashing reverberated from the bottom of the well the helical twist he had imparted to the rope had reached the grapnel below . 
Haul ! said Fairway and the men who held the rope began to gather it over the wheel . 
I think we've got sommat , said one of the haulers in . 
Then pull steady , said Fairway . 
They gathered up more and more , till a regular dripping into the well could be heard below . 
It grew smarter with the increasing height of the bucket , and presently a hundred and fifty feet of rope had been pulled in . 
Fairway then lit a lantern , tied it to another cord , and began lowering it into the well beside the first Clym came forward and looked down . 
We've only got en by the edge of the hoop steady , for God's sake ! said Fairway . 
They pulled with the greatest gentleness , till the wet bucket appeared about two yards below them , like a dead friend come to earth again . 
The bucket was gone again . 
Damn the bucket ! said Fairway . 
Lower again , said Sam . 
I'm as stiff as a ram's horn stooping so long , said Fairway , standing up and stretching himself till his joints creaked . 
Rest a few minutes , Timothy , said Yeobright . 
The grapnel was again lowered . 
Tie a rope round him it is dangerous ! cried a soft and anxious voice somewhere above them . 
The speaker was a woman , gazing down upon the group from an upper window , whose panes blazed in the ruddy glare from the west . 
Her lips were parted and she appeared for the moment to forget where she was . 
The rope was accordingly tied round his waist , and the work proceeded . 
At the next haul the weight was not heavy , and it was discovered that they had only secured a coil of the rope detached from the bucket . 
The tangled mass was thrown into the background . 
Humphrey took Yeobright's place , and the grapnel was lowered again . 
Yeobright retired to the heap of recovered rope in a meditative mood . 
Of the identity between the lady's voice and that of the melancholy mummer he had not a moment's doubt . 
How thoughtful of her ! he said to himself . 
Eustacia , who had reddened when she perceived the effect of her exclamation upon the group below , was no longer to be seen at the window , though Yeobright scanned it wistfully . 
While he stood there the men at the well succeeded in getting up the bucket without a mishap . 
One of them went to inquire for the captain , to learn what orders he wished to give for mending the well tackle . 
The captain proved to be away from home , and Eustacia appeared at the door and came out . 
She had lapsed into an easy and dignified calm , far removed from the intensity of life in her words of solicitude for Clym's safety . 
Will it be possible to draw water here tonight ? she inquired . 
No , miss the bottom of the bucket is clean knocked out . 
And as we can do no more now we'll leave off , and come again tomorrow morning . 
No water , she murmured , turning away . 
I can send you up some from Blooms End , said Clym , coming forward and raising his hat as the men retired . 
Yeobright and Eustacia looked at each other for one instant , as if each had in mind those few moments during which a certain moonlight scene was common to both . 
Thank you it will hardly be necessary , she replied . 
But my grandfather calls it water enough . 
I'll show you what I mean . 
She moved away a few yards , and Clym followed . 
It incidentally showed that her apparent languor did not arise from lack of force . 
Clym ascended behind her , and noticed a circular burnt patch at the top of the bank . 
We had a little bonfire here last Fifth of November , and those are the marks of it . 
On that spot had stood the fire she had kindled to attract Wildeve . 
The stone fell with a flounce , but no Wildeve appeared on the other side , as on a previous occasion there . 
Well , as a matter of fact there are no impurities in the water of these pools at this time of the year . 
It has only just rained into them . 
I am managing to exist in a wilderness , but I cannot drink from a pond , she said . 
Clym looked towards the well , which was now deserted , the men having gone home . 
It is a long way to send for spring water , he said , after a silence . 
But since you don't like this in the pond , I'll try to get you some myself . 
He went back to the well . 
Yes , I think I could do it by tying on this pail . 
But , since I would not trouble the men to get it , I cannot in conscience let you . 
I don't mind the trouble at all . 
He made fast the pail to the long coil of rope , put it over the wheel , and allowed it to descend by letting the rope slip through his hands . 
Before it had gone far , however , he checked it . 
I must make fast the end first , or we may lose the whole , he said to Eustacia , who had drawn near . 
I suppose I may let it slip down ? she inquired . 
I would advise you not to let it go far , said Clym . 
It will get much heavier , you will find . 
However , Eustacia had begun to pay out . 
Has it hurt you ? Yes , she replied . 
Very much ? No I think not . 
One of them was bleeding the rope had dragged off the skin . 
Eustacia wrapped it in her handkerchief . 
You should have let go , said Yeobright . 
Why didn't you ? You said I was to hold on . 
This is the second time I have been wounded today . 
Ah , yes I have heard of it . 
I blush for my native Egdon . 
A bright red spot appeared on its smooth surface , like a ruby on Parian marble . 
There it is , she said , putting her finger against the spot . 
It was dastardly of the woman , said Clym . 
Will not Captain Vye get her punished ? He is gone from home on that very business . 
I did not know that I had such a magic reputation . 
And you fainted ? said Clym , looking at the scarlet little puncture as if he would like to kiss it and make it well . 
Yes , it frightened me . 
I had not been to church for a long time . 
And now I shall not go again for ever so long perhaps never . 
I cannot face their eyes after this . 
Don't you think it dreadfully humiliating ? I wished I was dead for hours after , but I don't mind now . 
I have come to clean away these cobwebs , said Yeobright . 
Would you like to help me by high class teaching ? We might benefit them much . 
I don't quite feel anxious to . 
I have not much love for my fellow creatures . 
Sometimes I quite hate them . 
Still I think that if you were to hear my scheme you might take an interest in it . 
There is no use in hating people if you hate anything , you should hate what produced them . 
Do you mean Nature ? I hate her already . 
But I shall be glad to hear your scheme at any time . 
The situation had now worked itself out , and the next natural thing was for them to part . 
Clym knew this well enough , and Eustacia made a move of conclusion yet he looked at her as if he had one word more to say . 
Perhaps if he had not lived in Paris it would never have been uttered . 
We have met before , he said , regarding her with rather more interest than was necessary . 
I do not own it , said Eustacia , with a repressed , still look . 
But I may think what I like . 
I cannot endure the heath , except in its purple season . 
The heath is a cruel taskmaster to me . 
Can you say so ? he asked . 
To my mind it is most exhilarating , and strengthening , and soothing . 
I would rather live on these hills than anywhere else in the world . 
It is well enough for artists but I never would learn to draw . 
And there is a very curious druidical stone just out there . 
He threw a pebble in the direction signified . 
Do you often go to see it ? I was not even aware there existed any such curious druidical stone . 
I am aware that there are boulevards in Paris . 
Yeobright looked thoughtfully on the ground . 
That means much , he said . 
It does indeed , said Eustacia . 
I remember when I had the same longing for town bustle . 
Five years of a great city would be a perfect cure for that . 
Heaven send me such a cure ! Now , Mr. Yeobright , I will go indoors and plaster my wounded hand . 
They separated , and Eustacia vanished in the increasing shade . 
She seemed full of many things . 
Her past was a blank , her life had begun . 
The effect upon Clym of this meeting he did not fully discover till some time after . 
During his walk home his most intelligible sensation was that his scheme had somehow become glorified . 
A beautiful woman had been intertwined with it . 
From another box he drew a lamp and a can of oil . 
He trimmed the lamp , arranged his table , and said , Now , I am ready to begin . 
He rose early the next morning , read two hours before breakfast by the light of his lamp read all the morning , all the afternoon . 
Just when the sun was going down his eyes felt weary , and he leant back in his chair . 
His room overlooked the front of the premises and the valley of the heath beyond . 
It was an hour and a half later when he again appeared at the garden gate . 
The shutters of the house were closed , and Christian Cantle , who had been wheeling manure about the garden all day , had gone home . 
On entering he found that his mother , after waiting a long time for him , had finished her meal . 
Where have you been , Clym ? she immediately said . 
Why didn't you tell me that you were going away at this time ? I have been on the heath . 
You'll meet Eustacia Vye if you go up there . 
Yes , I met her this evening , he said , as though it were spoken under the sheer necessity of preserving honesty . 
I wondered if you had . 
No such meetings never are . 
But you are not angry , Mother ? I can hardly say that I am not . 
Angry ? No. But when I consider the usual nature of the drag which causes men of promise to disappoint the world I feel uneasy . 
You deserve credit for the feeling , Mother . 
But I can assure you that you need not be disturbed by it on my account . 
When I think of you and your new crotchets , said Mrs. Yeobright , with some emphasis , I naturally don't feel so comfortable as I did a twelvemonth ago . 
It is incredible to me that a man accustomed to the attractive women of Paris and elsewhere should be so easily worked upon by a girl in a heath . 
You could just as well have walked another way . 
I had been studying all day . 
Yeobright was unwilling to disturb this idea , though his scheme was far enough removed from one wherein the education of youth should be made a mere channel of social ascent . 
He had no desires of that sort . 
He had reached the stage in a young man's life when the grimness of the general human situation first becomes clear and the realization of this causes ambition to halt awhile . 
In France it is not uncustomary to commit suicide at this stage in England we do much better , or much worse , as the case may be . 
The love between the young man and his mother was strangely invisible now . 
Of love it may be said , the less earthly the less demonstrative . 
In its absolutely indestructible form it reaches a profundity in which all exhibition of itself is painful . 
It was so with these . 
From every provident point of view his mother was so undoubtedly right , that he was not without a sickness of heart in finding he could shake her . 
She had a singular insight into life , considering that she had never mixed with it . 
There are instances of persons who , without clear ideas of the things they criticize have yet had clear ideas of the relations of those things . 
In the social sphere these gifted ones are mostly women they can watch a world which they never saw , and estimate forces of which they have only heard . 
What was the great world to Mrs. Yeobright ? A multitude whose tendencies could be perceived , though not its essences . 
One could see that , as far as it had gone , her life was very complete on its reflective side . 
The philosophy of her nature , and its limitation by circumstances , was almost written in her movements . 
They had a majestic foundation , though they were far from being majestic and they had a ground work of assurance , but they were not assured . 
As her once elastic walk had become deadened by time , so had her natural pride of life been hindered in its blooming by her necessities . 
The next slight touch in the shaping of Clym's destiny occurred a few days after . 
A barrow was opened on the heath , and Yeobright attended the operation , remaining away from his study during several hours . 
In the afternoon Christian returned from a journey in the same direction , and Mrs. Yeobright questioned him . 
They have dug a hole , and they have found things like flowerpots upside down , Mis'ess Yeobright and inside these be real charnel bones . 
They have carried 'em off to men's houses but I shouldn't like to sleep where they will bide . 
Dead folks have been known to come and claim their own . 
Mr. Yeobright had got one pot of the bones , and was going to bring 'em home real skellington bones but 'twas ordered otherwise . 
You'll be relieved to hear that he gave away his pot and all , on second thoughts and a blessed thing for ye , Mis'ess Yeobright , considering the wind o' nights . 
Gave it away ? Yes . 
She has a cannibal taste for such churchyard furniture seemingly . 
Miss Vye was there too ? Ay , 'a b'lieve she was . 
When Clym came home , which was shortly after , his mother said , in a curious tone , The urn you had meant for me you gave away . 
Yeobright made no reply the current of her feeling was too pronounced to admit it . 
The early weeks of the year passed on . 
Yeobright certainly studied at home , but he also walked much abroad , and the direction of his walk was always towards some point of a line between Mistover and Rainbarrow . 
The month of March arrived , and the heath showed its first signs of awakening from winter trance . 
The awakening was almost feline in its stealthiness . 
A timid animal world had come to life for the season . 
His walk was rapid as he came down , and he went with a springy trend . 
Before entering upon his mother's premises he stopped and breathed . 
The light which shone forth on him from the window revealed that his face was flushed and his eye bright . 
What it did not show was something which lingered upon his lips like a seal set there . 
The tea was ready , and he sat down opposite his mother . 
His mother's taciturnity was not without ominousness , but he appeared not to care . 
He knew why she said so little , but he could not remove the cause of her bearing towards him . 
These half silent sittings were far from uncommon with them now . 
At last Yeobright made a beginning of what was intended to strike at the whole root of the matter . 
Five days have we sat like this at meals with scarcely a word . 
What's the use of it , Mother ? None , said she , in a heart swollen tone . 
But there is only too good a reason . 
Not when you know all . 
I have been wanting to speak about this , and I am glad the subject is begun . 
The reason , of course , is Eustacia Vye . 
Well , I confess I have seen her lately , and have seen her a good many times . 
Yes , yes and I know what that amounts to . 
It troubles me , Clym . 
You are wasting your life here and it is solely on account of her . 
If it had not been for that woman you would never have entertained this teaching scheme at all . 
Clym looked hard at his mother . 
You know that is not it , he said . 
Well , I know you had decided to attempt it before you saw her but that would have ended in intentions . 
It was very well to talk of , but ridiculous to put in practice . 
But now I see how mistaken you are about this girl I doubt if you could be correct about other things . 
How am I mistaken in her ? She is lazy and dissatisfied . 
But that is not all of it . 
If I take a school an educated woman would be invaluable as a help to me . 
What ! you really mean to marry her ? It would be premature to state that plainly . 
But consider what obvious advantages there would be in doing it . 
She Don't suppose she has any money . 
She is excellently educated , and would make a good matron in a boarding school . 
I candidly own that I have modified my views a little , in deference to you and it should satisfy you . 
I no longer adhere to my intention of giving with my own mouth rudimentary education to the lowest class . 
I can establish a good private school for farmers' sons , and without stopping the school I can manage to pass examinations . 
Yeobright had enunciated the word her with a fervour which , in conversation with a mother , was absurdly indiscreet . 
Hardly a maternal heart within the four seas could in such circumstances , have helped being irritated at that ill timed betrayal of feeling for a new woman . 
You are blinded , Clym , she said warmly . 
It was a bad day for you when you first set eyes on her . 
Mother , that's not true , he firmly answered . 
He placed his hand upon his mother's shoulder and said , in a tone which hung strangely between entreaty and command , I won't hear it . 
I may be led to answer you in a way which we shall both regret . 
His mother parted her lips to begin some other vehement truth , but on looking at him she saw that in his face which led her to leave the words unsaid . 
Yeobright walked once or twice across the room , and then suddenly went out of the house . 
It was eleven o'clock when he came in , though he had not been further than the precincts of the garden . 
His mother was gone to bed . 
A light was left burning on the table , and supper was spread . 
Without stopping for any food he secured the doors and went upstairs . 
An Hour of Bliss and Many Hours of Sadness The next day was gloomy enough at Blooms End . 
Yeobright remained in his study , sitting over the open books but the work of those hours was miserably scant . 
With the same resolve to keep up a show of conversation he said , about seven o'clock in the evening , There's an eclipse of the moon tonight . 
I am going out to see it . 
And , putting on his overcoat , he left her . 
The low moon was not as yet visible from the front of the house , and Yeobright climbed out of the valley until he stood in the full flood of her light . 
But even now he walked on , and his steps were in the direction of Rainbarrow . 
In half an hour he stood at the top . 
After standing awhile he stooped and felt the heather . 
It was dry , and he flung himself down upon the barrow , his face towards the moon , which depicted a small image of herself in each of his eyes . 
He had often come up here without stating his purpose to his mother but this was the first time that he had been ostensibly frank as to his purpose while really concealing it . 
It was a moral situation which , three months earlier , he could hardly have credited of himself . 
In returning to labour in this sequestered spot he had anticipated an escape from the chafing of social necessities yet behold they were here also . 
While he watched the far removed landscape a tawny stain grew into being on the lower verge the eclipse had begun . 
This marked a preconcerted moment for the remote celestial phenomenon had been pressed into sublunary service as a lover's signal . 
Yeobright's mind flew back to earth at the sight he arose , shook himself and listened . 
Minute after minute passed by , perhaps ten minutes passed , and the shadow on the moon perceptibly widened . 
He heard a rustling on his left hand , a cloaked figure with an upturned face appeared at the base of the Barrow , and Clym descended . 
In a moment the figure was in his arms , and his lips upon hers . 
My Eustacia ! Clym , dearest ! Such a situation had less than three months brought forth . 
I began to wonder why you did not come , said Yeobright , when she had withdrawn a little from his embrace . 
You said ten minutes after the first mark of shade on the edge of the moon , and that's what it is now . 
Well , let us only think that here we are . 
Then , holding each other's hand , they were again silent , and the shadow on the moon's disc grew a little larger . 
Has it seemed long since you last saw me ? she asked . 
And not long ? That's because you occupy yourself , and so blind yourself to my absence . 
To me , who can do nothing , it has been like living under stagnant water . 
I would rather bear tediousness , dear , than have time made short by such means as have shortened mine . 
In what way is that ? You have been thinking you wished you did not love me . 
How can a man wish that , and yet love on ? No , Eustacia . 
Men can , women cannot . 
Well , whatever I may have thought , one thing is certain I do love you past all compass and description . 
I love you to oppressiveness I , who have never before felt more than a pleasant passing fancy for any woman I have ever seen . 
One touch on that mouth again ! there , and there , and there . 
Your eyes seem heavy , Eustacia . 
No , it is my general way of looking . 
I think it arises from my feeling sometimes an agonizing pity for myself that I ever was born . 
You don't feel it now ? No. Yet I know that we shall not love like this always . 
Nothing can ensure the continuance of love . 
It will evaporate like a spirit , and so I feel full of fears . 
Ah , you don't know . 
I loved another man once , and now I love you . 
In God's mercy don't talk so , Eustacia ! But I do not think I shall be the one who wearies first . 
It will , I fear , end in this way your mother will find out that you meet me , and she will influence you against me ! That can never be . 
She knows of these meetings already . 
And she speaks against me ? I will not say . 
There , go away ! Obey her . 
It is foolish of you to meet me like this . 
Kiss me , and go away forever . 
Forever do you hear ? forever ! Not I. It is your only chance . 
Many a man's love has been a curse to him . 
You are desperate , full of fancies , and wilful and you misunderstand . 
I have an additional reason for seeing you tonight besides love of you . 
For though , unlike you , I feel our affection may be eternal . 
I feel with you in this , that our present mode of existence cannot last . 
Oh ! 'tis your mother . 
Yes , that's it ! I knew it . 
Never mind what it is . 
Believe this , I cannot let myself lose you . 
I must have you always with me . 
This very evening I do not like to let you go . 
There is only one cure for this anxiety , dearest you must be my wife . 
She started then endeavoured to say calmly , Cynics say that cures the anxiety by curing the love . 
But you must answer me . 
Shall I claim you some day I don't mean at once ? I must think , Eustacia murmured . 
At present speak of Paris to me . 
Is there any place like it on earth ? It is very beautiful . 
But will you be mine ? I will be nobody else's in the world does that satisfy you ? Yes , for the present . 
Now tell me of the Tuileries , and the Louvre , she continued evasively . 
I hate talking of Paris ! Well , I remember one sunny room in the Louvre which would make a fitting place for you to live in the Galerie d'Apollon . 
Its windows are mainly east and in the early morning , when the sun is bright , the whole apartment is in a perfect blaze of splendour . 
But now , about our marriage And Versailles the King's Gallery is some such gorgeous room , is it not ? Yes . 
I should hate to think that ! Then you could keep to the lawn in front of the Grand Palace . 
All about there you would doubtless feel in a world of historical romance . 
He went on , since it was all new to her , and described Fontainebleau , St . 
Cloud , the Bois , and many other familiar haunts of the Parisians till she said When used you to go to these places ? On Sundays . 
How I should chime in with their manners over there ! Dear Clym , you'll go back again ? Clym shook his head , and looked at the eclipse . 
If you'll go back again I'll be something , she said tenderly , putting her head near his breast . 
If you'll agree I'll give my promise , without making you wait a minute longer . 
How extraordinary that you and my mother should be of one mind about this ! said Yeobright . 
I have vowed not to go back , Eustacia . 
It is not the place I dislike it is the occupation . 
But you can go in some other capacity . 
No. Besides , it would interfere with my scheme . 
Don't press that , Eustacia . 
Will you marry me ? I cannot tell . 
Now never mind Paris it is no better than other spots . 
Clym brought her face towards his by a gentle pressure of the hand , and kissed her . 
Ah ! but you don't know what you have got in me , she said . 
Sometimes I think there is not that in Eustacia Vye which will make a good homespun wife . 
Well , let it go see how our time is slipping , slipping , slipping ! She pointed towards the half eclipsed moon . 
No. Only I dread to think of anything beyond the present . 
What is , we know . 
Clym , the eclipsed moonlight shines upon your face with a strange foreign colour , and shows its shape as if it were cut out in gold . 
That means that you should be doing better things than this . 
You are ambitious , Eustacia no , not exactly ambitious , luxurious . 
I ought to be of the same vein , to make you happy , I suppose . 
And yet , far from that , I could live and die in a hermitage here , with proper work to do . 
To be your wife and live in Paris would be heaven to me but I would rather live with you in a hermitage here than not be yours at all . 
It is gain to me either way , and very great gain . 
There's my too candid confession . 
And now I must soon leave you . 
I'll walk with you towards your house . 
But must you go home yet ? she asked . 
Yes , the sand has nearly slipped away , I see , and the eclipse is creeping on more and more . 
Don't go yet ! Stop till the hour has run itself out then I will not press you any more . 
You will go home and sleep well I keep sighing in my sleep ! Do you ever dream of me ? I cannot recollect a clear dream of you . 
I see your face in every scene of my dreams , and hear your voice in every sound . 
I wish I did not . 
It is too much what I feel . 
They say such love never lasts . 
How terrible it would be if a time should come when I could not love you , my Clym ! Please don't say such reckless things . 
When we see such a time at hand we will say , 'I have outlived my faith and purpose , and die . 
There , the hour has expired now let us walk on . 
Hand in hand they went along the path towards Mistover . 
When they were near the house he said , It is too late for me to see your grandfather tonight . 
Do you think he will object to it ? I will speak to him . 
I am so accustomed to be my own mistress that it did not occur to me that we should have to ask him . 
Then they lingeringly separated , and Clym descended towards Blooms End . 
And as he walked further and further from the charmed atmosphere of his Olympian girl his face grew sad with a new sort of sadness . 
A perception of the dilemma in which his love had placed him came back in full force . 
Along with that came the widening breach between himself and his mother . 
Sometimes he wished that he had never known Eustacia , immediately to retract the wish as brutal . 
Three antagonistic growths had to be kept alive his mother's trust in him , his plan for becoming a teacher , and Eustacia's happiness . 
His fervid nature could not afford to relinquish one of these , though two of the three were as many as he could hope to preserve . 
Though his love was as chaste as that of Petrarch for his Laura , it had made fetters of what previously was only a difficulty . 
A position which was not too simple when he stood whole hearted had become indescribably complicated by the addition of Eustacia . 
Just when his mother was beginning to tolerate one scheme he had introduced another still bitterer than the first , and the combination was more than she could bear . 
Sharp Words Are Spoken , and a Crisis Ensues When Yeobright was not with Eustacia he was sitting slavishly over his books when he was not reading he was meeting her . 
These meetings were carried on with the greatest secrecy . 
One afternoon his mother came home from a morning visit to Thomasin . 
He could see from a disturbance in the lines of her face that something had happened . 
I have been told an incomprehensible thing , she said mournfully . 
The captain has let out at the Woman that you and Eustacia Vye are engaged to be married . 
We are , said Yeobright . 
But it may not be yet for a very long time . 
I should hardly think it WOULD be yet for a very long time ! You will take her to Paris , I suppose ? She spoke with weary hopelessness . 
I am not going back to Paris . 
What will you do with a wife , then ? Keep a school in Budmouth , as I have told you . 
That's incredible ! The place is overrun with schoolmasters . 
You have no special qualifications . 
What possible chance is there for such as you ? There is no chance of getting rich . 
But with my system of education , which is as new as it is true , I shall do a great deal of good to my fellow creatures . 
Dreams , dreams ! If there had been any system left to be invented they would have found it out at the universities long before this time . 
They cannot find it out , because their teachers don't come in contact with the class which demands such a system that is , those who have had no preliminary training . 
My plan is one for instilling high knowledge into empty minds without first cramming them with what has to be uncrammed again before true study begins . 
A Corfu bandmaster's daughter ! What has her life been ? Her surname even is not her true one . 
She is Captain Vye's granddaughter , and her father merely took her mother's name . 
And she is a lady by instinct . 
They call him 'captain , but anybody is captain . 
He was in the Royal Navy ! No doubt he has been to sea in some tub or other . 
Why doesn't he look after her ? No lady would rove about the heath at all hours of the day and night as she does . 
But that's not all of it . 
There was something queer between her and Thomasin's husband at one time I am as sure of it as that I stand here . 
He did pay her a little attention a year ago but there's no harm in that . 
I like her all the better . 
Clym , said his mother with firmness , I have no proofs against her , unfortunately . 
But if she makes you a good wife , there has never been a bad one . 
Believe me , you are almost exasperating , said Yeobright vehemently . 
And this very day I had intended to arrange a meeting between you . 
But you give me no peace you try to thwart my wishes in everything . 
Her breath was coming quickly , and her lips were pale , parted , and trembling . 
Mother , said Clym , whatever you do , you will always be dear to me that you know . 
But one thing I have a right to say , which is , that at my age I am old enough to know what is best for me . 
Mrs. Yeobright remained for some time silent and shaken , as if she could say no more . 
And that woman is you . 
How can you treat me so flippantly ! said his mother , turning again to him with a tearful look . 
You are unnatural , Clym , and I did not expect it . 
Very likely , said he cheerlessly . 
You did not know the measure you were going to mete me , and therefore did not know the measure that would be returned to you again . 
You answer me you think only of her . 
You stick to her in all things . 
That proves her to be worthy . 
I have never yet supported what is bad . 
And I do not care only for her . 
I care for you and for myself , and for anything that is good . 
When a woman once dislikes another she is merciless ! O Clym ! please don't go setting down as my fault what is your obstinate wrongheadedness . 
I will say no more beyond this , that I beg your pardon for having thought this my home . 
I will no longer inflict myself upon you I'll go . 
And he went out with tears in his eyes . 
It was a sunny afternoon at the beginning of summer , and the moist hollows of the heath had passed from their brown to their green stage . 
Yeobright walked to the edge of the basin which extended down from Mistover and Rainbarrow . 
By this time he was calm , and he looked over the landscape . 
He descended a little way , flung himself down in a spot where a path emerged from one of the small hollows , and waited . 
Hither it was that he had promised Eustacia to bring his mother this afternoon , that they might meet and be friends . 
His attempt had utterly failed . 
He was in a nest of vivid green . 
The air was warm with a vaporous warmth , and the stillness was unbroken . 
Lizards , grasshoppers , and ants were the only living things to be beheld . 
His heart awoke from its apathy to a warm excitement , and , jumping to his feet , he said aloud , I knew she was sure to come . 
She vanished in a hollow for a few moments , and then her whole form unfolded itself from the brake . 
Only you here ? she exclaimed , with a disappointed air , whose hollowness was proved by her rising redness and her half guilty low laugh . 
Where is Mrs. Yeobright ? She has not come , he replied in a subdued tone . 
I wish I had known that you would be here alone , she said seriously , and that we were going to have such an idle , pleasant time as this . 
Pleasure not known beforehand is half wasted to anticipate it is to double it . 
I have not thought once today of having you all to myself this afternoon , and the actual moment of a thing is so soon gone . 
Poor Clym ! she continued , looking tenderly into his face . 
Something has happened at your home . 
Never mind what is let us only look at what seems . 
But , darling , what shall we do ? said he . 
Still go on as we do now just live on from meeting to meeting , never minding about another day . 
You , I know , are always thinking of that I can see you are . 
But you must not will you , dear Clym ? You are just like all women . 
They are ever content to build their lives on any incidental position that offers itself whilst men would fain make a globe to suit them . 
Listen to this , Eustacia . 
There is a subject I have determined to put off no longer . 
Your sentiment on the wisdom of Carpe diem does not impress me today . 
Our present mode of life must shortly be brought to an end . 
It is your mother ! It is . 
I love you none the less in telling you it is only right you should know . 
I have feared my bliss , she said , with the merest motion of her lips . 
It has been too intense and consuming . 
There are forty years of work in me yet , and why should you despair ? I am only at an awkward turning . 
I wish people wouldn't be so ready to think that there is no progress without uniformity . 
Ah your mind runs off to the philosophical side of it . 
Well , these sad and hopeless obstacles are welcome in one sense , for they enable us to look with indifference upon the cruel satires that Fate loves to indulge in . 
I have heard of people , who , upon coming suddenly into happiness , have died from anxiety lest they should not live to enjoy it . 
I felt myself in that whimsical state of uneasiness lately but I shall be spared it now . 
Clym took the hand which was already bared for him it was a favourite way with them to walk bare hand in bare hand and led her through the ferns . 
They wandered onward till they reached the nether margin of the heath , where it became marshy and merged in moorland . 
I must part from you here , Clym , said Eustacia . 
They stood still and prepared to bid each other farewell . 
Everything before them was on a perfect level . 
The sun , resting on the horizon line , streamed across the ground from between copper coloured and lilac clouds , stretched out in flats beneath a sky of pale soft green . 
O ! this leaving you is too hard to bear ! exclaimed Eustacia in a sudden whisper of anguish . 
Nobody dares to speak disrespectfully of you or of me . 
Oh how I wish I was sure of never losing you that you could not be able to desert me anyhow ! Clym stood silent a moment . 
His feelings were high , the moment was passionate , and he cut the knot . 
You shall be sure of me , darling , he said , folding her in his arms . 
We will be married at once . 
O Clym ! Do you agree to it ? If if we can . 
We certainly can , both being of full age . 
How long shall we have to live in the tiny cottage , Clym ? About six months . 
At the end of that time I shall have finished my reading yes , we will do it , and this heart aching will be over . 
Would your grandfather allow you ? I think he would on the understanding that it should not last longer than six months . 
I will guarantee that , if no misfortune happens . 
If no misfortune happens , she repeated slowly . 
Dearest , fix the exact day . 
And then they consulted on the question , and the day was chosen . 
It was to be a fortnight from that time . 
This was the end of their talk , and Eustacia left him . 
Clym watched her as she retired towards the sun . 
The luminous rays wrapped her up with her increasing distance , and the rustle of her dress over the sprouting sedge and grass died away . 
Eustacia was now no longer the goddess but the woman to him , a being to fight for , support , help , be maligned for . 
Now that he had reached a cooler moment he would have preferred a less hasty marriage but the card was laid , and he determined to abide by the game . 
Whether Eustacia was to add one other to the list of those who love too hotly to love long and well , the forthcoming event was certainly a ready way of proving . 
Yeobright Goes , and the Breach Is Complete All that evening smart sounds denoting an active packing up came from Yeobright's room to the ears of his mother downstairs . 
Next morning he departed from the house and again proceeded across the heath . 
A long day's march was before him , his object being to secure a dwelling to which he might take Eustacia when she became his wife . 
The weather was far different from that of the evening before . 
The yellow and vapoury sunset which had wrapped up Eustacia from his parting gaze had presaged change . 
It was one of those not infrequent days of an English June which are as wet and boisterous as November . 
The cold clouds hastened on in a body , as if painted on a moving slide . 
Vapours from other continents arrived upon the wind , which curled and parted round him as he walked on . 
At length Clym reached the margin of a fir and beech plantation that had been enclosed from heath land in the year of his birth . 
Egdon was made for such times as these . 
Yeobright reached the empty house about midday . 
It was almost as lonely as that of Eustacia's grandfather , but the fact that it stood near a heath was disguised by a belt of firs which almost enclosed the premises . 
Clym's intention was to live there alone until Eustacia should join him on their wedding day . 
Then he turned to pursue his way homeward through the drizzle that had so greatly transformed the scene . 
He reached home damp and weary enough after his ten mile walk . 
It had hardly been a propitious beginning , but he had chosen his course , and would show no swerving . 
The evening and the following morning were spent in concluding arrangements for his departure . 
He had hired a conveyance and sent off his goods by two o'clock that day . 
A mart extensive enough for the purpose existed at Anglebury , some miles beyond the spot chosen for his residence , and there he resolved to pass the coming night . 
It now only remained to wish his mother good bye . 
She was sitting by the window as usual when he came downstairs . 
Mother , I am going to leave you , he said , holding out his hand . 
I thought you were , by your packing , replied Mrs. Yeobright in a voice from which every particle of emotion was painfully excluded . 
And you will part friends with me ? Certainly , Clym . 
I am going to be married on the twenty fifth . 
I thought you were going to be married . 
And then and then you must come and see us . 
You will understand me better after that , and our situation will not be so wretched as it is now . 
I do not think it likely I shall come to see you . 
Then it will not be my fault or Eustacia's , Mother . 
Good bye ! He kissed her cheek , and departed in great misery , which was several hours in lessening itself to a controllable level . 
The position had been such that nothing more could be said without , in the first place , breaking down a barrier and that was not to be done . 
No sooner had Yeobright gone from his mother's house than her face changed its rigid aspect for one of blank despair . 
After a while she wept , and her tears brought some relief . 
During the rest of the day she did nothing but walk up and down the garden path in a state bordering on stupefaction . 
Night came , and with it but little rest . 
She gave some attention to her flowers , but it was perfunctorily bestowed , for they no longer charmed her . 
It was a great relief when , early in the afternoon , Thomasin paid her an unexpected visit . 
This was not the first meeting between the relatives since Thomasin's marriage and past blunders having been in a rough way rectified , they could always greet each other with pleasure and ease . 
The oblique band of sunlight which followed her through the door became the young wife well . 
It illuminated her as her presence illuminated the heath . 
In her movements , in her gaze , she reminded the beholder of the feathered creatures who lived around her home . 
All similes and allegories concerning her began and ended with birds . 
There was as much variety in her motions as in their flight . 
When she was musing she was a kestrel , which hangs in the air by an invisible motion of its wings . 
When she was in a high wind her light body was blown against trees and banks like a heron's . 
When she was frightened she darted noiselessly like a kingfisher . 
When she was serene she skimmed like a swallow , and that is how she was moving now . 
You are looking very blithe , upon my word , Tamsie , said Mrs. Yeobright , with a sad smile . 
How is Damon ? He is very well . 
Is he kind to you , Thomasin ? And Mrs. Yeobright observed her narrowly . 
Is that honestly said ? Yes , Aunt . 
I would tell you if he were unkind . 
She added , blushing , and with hesitation , He I don't know if I ought to complain to you about this , but I am not quite sure what to do . 
I want some money , you know , Aunt some to buy little things for myself and he doesn't give me any . 
I don't like to ask him and yet , perhaps , he doesn't give it me because he doesn't know . 
Ought I to mention it to him , Aunt ? Of course you ought . 
I did just say something about it last week but he seems not to remember . 
He must be made to remember . 
You are aware that I have a little box full of spade guineas , which your uncle put into my hands to divide between yourself and Clym whenever I chose . 
Perhaps the time has come when it should be done . 
They can be turned into sovereigns at any moment . 
I think I should like to have my share that is , if you don't mind . 
You shall , if necessary . 
But it is only proper that you should first tell your husband distinctly that you are without any , and see what he will do . 
Very well , I will . 
Aunt , I have heard about Clym . 
I know you are in trouble about him , and that's why I have come . 
Mrs. Yeobright turned away , and her features worked in her attempt to conceal her feelings . 
It is only that he loves her too well . 
Look at it quietly do . 
It is not so very bad of him . 
Do you know , I thought it not the worst match he could have made . 
Miss Vye's family is a good one on her mother's side and her father was a romantic wanderer a sort of Greek Ulysses . 
It is no use , Thomasin it is no use . 
Your intention is good but I will not trouble you to argue . 
I have gone through the whole that can be said on either side times , and many times . 
Clym and I have not parted in anger we have parted in a worse way . 
It is not a passionate quarrel that would have broken my heart it is the steady opposition and persistence in going wrong that he has shown . 
O Thomasin , he was so good as a little boy so tender and kind ! He was , I know . 
I did not think one whom I called mine would grow up to treat me like this . 
He spoke to me as if I opposed him to injure him . 
As though I could wish him ill ! There are worse women in the world than Eustacia Vye . 
There are too many better that's the agony of it . 
It was she , Thomasin , and she only , who led your husband to act as he did I would swear it ! No , said Thomasin eagerly . 
It was before he knew me that he thought of her , and it was nothing but a mere flirtation . 
Very well we will let it be so . 
There is little use in unravelling that now . 
Sons must be blind if they will . 
Why is it that a woman can see from a distance what a man cannot see close ? Clym must do as he will he is nothing more to me . 
And this is maternity to give one's best years and best love to ensure the fate of being despised ! You are too unyielding . 
Think how many mothers there are whose sons have brought them to public shame by real crimes before you feel so deeply a case like this . 
Thomasin , don't lecture me I can't have it . 
I am wrongly made , Thomasin , she added , with a mournful smile . 
Some widows can guard against the wounds their children give them by turning their hearts to another husband and beginning life again . 
But I always was a poor , weak , one idea'd creature I had not the compass of heart nor the enterprise for that . 
Just as forlorn and stupefied as I was when my husband's spirit flew away I have sat ever since never attempting to mend matters at all . 
I was comparatively a young woman then , and I might have had another family by this time , and have been comforted by them for the failure of this one son . 
It is more noble in you that you did not . 
The more noble , the less wise . 
Forget it , and be soothed , dear Aunt . 
And I shall not leave you alone for long . 
I shall come and see you every day . 
And for one week Thomasin literally fulfilled her word . 
She endeavoured to make light of the wedding and brought news of the preparations , and that she was invited to be present . 
The next week she was rather unwell , and did not appear . 
Nothing had as yet been done about the guineas , for Thomasin feared to address her husband again on the subject , and Mrs. Yeobright had insisted upon this . 
One day just before this time Wildeve was standing at the door of the Quiet Woman . 
This was the only route on that side for vehicles to the captain's retreat . 
A light cart from the nearest town descended the road , and the lad who was driving pulled up in front of the inn for something to drink . 
You come from Mistover ? said Wildeve . 
They are taking in good things up there . 
Going to be a wedding . 
And the driver buried his face in his mug . 
Wildeve had not received an inkling of the fact before , and a sudden expression of pain overspread his face . 
He turned for a moment into the passage to hide it . 
Then he came back again . 
Do you mean Miss Vye ? he said . 
How is it that she can be married so soon ? By the will of God and a ready young man , I suppose . 
You don't mean Mr. Yeobright ? Yes . 
He has been creeping about with her all the spring . 
I suppose she was immensely taken with him ? She is crazy about him , so their general servant of all work tells me . 
And that lad Charley that looks after the horse is all in a daze about it . 
The stun poll has got fond like of her . 
Is she lively is she glad ? Going to be married so soon well ! It isn't so very soon . 
No not so very soon . 
Wildeve went indoors to the empty room , a curious heartache within him . 
He rested his elbow upon the mantelpiece and his face upon his hand . 
When Thomasin entered the room he did not tell her of what he had heard . 
The old longing for Eustacia had reappeared in his soul and it was mainly because he had discovered that it was another man's intention to possess her . 
To be yearning for the difficult , to be weary of that offered to care for the remote , to dislike the near it was Wildeve's nature always . 
This is the true mark of the man of sentiment . 
Though Wildeve's fevered feeling had not been elaborated to real poetical compass , it was of the standard sort . 
His might have been called the Rousseau of Egdon . 
The Morning and the Evening of a Day The wedding morning came . 
Nobody would have imagined from appearances that Blooms End had any interest in Mistover that day . 
A solemn stillness prevailed around the house of Clym's mother , and there was no more animation indoors . 
It was the room in which , six months earlier , the merry Christmas party had met , to which Eustacia came secretly and as a stranger . 
This roused the lonely sitter , who got up , released the bird , and went to the door . 
A domestic drama , for which the preparations were now being made a mile or two off , was but little less vividly present to her eyes than if enacted before her . 
Eleven o'clock struck could it be that the wedding was then in progress ? It must be so . 
She went on imagining the scene at the church , which he had by this time approached with his bride . 
She pictured the little group of children by the gate as the pony carriage drove up in which , as Thomasin had learnt , they were going to perform the short journey . 
Then she saw them enter and proceed to the chancel and kneel and the service seemed to go on . 
She covered her face with her hands . 
O , it is a mistake ! she groaned . 
And he will rue it some day , and think of me ! While she remained thus , overcome by her forebodings , the old clock indoors whizzed forth twelve strokes . 
Soon after , faint sounds floated to her ear from afar over the hills . 
The ringers at East Egdon were announcing the nuptials of Eustacia and her son . 
Then it is over , she murmured . 
Well , well ! and life too will be over soon . 
And why should I go on scalding my face like this ? Cry about one thing in life , cry about all one thread runs through the whole piece . 
And yet we say , 'a time to laugh ! Towards evening Wildeve came . 
Since Thomasin's marriage Mrs. Yeobright had shown him that grim friendliness which at last arises in all such cases of undesired affinity . 
The vision of what ought to have been is thrown aside in sheer weariness , and browbeaten human endeavour listlessly makes the best of the fact that is . 
Wildeve , to do him justice , had behaved very courteously to his wife's aunt and it was with no surprise that she saw him enter now . 
The captain came down last night and personally pressed her to join them today . 
So , not to be unpleasant , she determined to go . 
They fetched her in the pony chaise , and are going to bring her back . 
Then it is done , said Mrs. Yeobright . 
Have they gone to their new home ? I don't know . 
I have had no news from Mistover since Thomasin left to go . 
You did not go with her ? said she , as if there might be good reasons why . 
I could not , said Wildeve , reddening slightly . 
We could not both leave the house it was rather a busy morning , on account of Anglebury Great Market . 
I believe you have something to give to Thomasin ? If you like , I will take it . 
Mrs. Yeobright hesitated , and wondered if Wildeve knew what the something was . 
Did she tell you of this ? she inquired . 
She casually dropped a remark about having arranged to fetch some article or other . 
It is hardly necessary to send it . 
She can have it whenever she chooses to come . 
In the present state of her health she must not go on walking so much as she has done . 
He added , with a faint twang of sarcasm , What wonderful thing is it that I cannot be trusted to take ? Nothing worth troubling you with . 
One would think you doubted my honesty , he said , with a laugh , though his colour rose in a quick resentfulness frequent with him . 
You need think no such thing , said she drily . 
It is simply that I , in common with the rest of the world , feel that there are certain things which had better be done by certain people than by others . 
As you like , as you like , said Wildeve laconically . 
It is not worth arguing about . 
Well , I think I must turn homeward again , as the inn must not be left long in charge of the lad and the maid only . 
He went his way , his farewell being scarcely so courteous as his greeting . 
But Mrs. Yeobright knew him thoroughly by this time , and took little notice of his manner , good or bad . 
When Wildeve was gone Mrs. Yeobright stood and considered what would be the best course to adopt with regard to the guineas , which she had not liked to entrust to Wildeve . 
It was hardly credible that Thomasin had told him to ask for them , when the necessity for them had arisen from the difficulty of obtaining money at his hands . 
At the same time Thomasin really wanted them , and might be unable to come to Blooms End for another week at least . 
But on this particular evening Thomasin was at Mistover , and anything might be conveyed to her there without the knowledge of her husband . 
Upon the whole the opportunity was worth taking advantage of . 
Her son , too , was there , and was now married . 
There could be no more proper moment to render him his share of the money than the present . 
And the chance that would be afforded her , by sending him this gift , of showing how far she was from bearing him ill will , cheered the sad mother's heart . 
She went upstairs and took from a locked drawer a little box , out of which she poured a hoard of broad unworn guineas that had lain there many a year . 
There were a hundred in all , and she divided them into two heaps , fifty in each . 
Mrs. Yeobright gave him the moneybags , charged him to go to Mistover , and on no account to deliver them into any one's hands save her son's and Thomasin's . 
On further thought she deemed it advisable to tell Christian precisely what the two bags contained , that he might be fully impressed with their importance . 
Christian pocketed the moneybags , promised the greatest carefulness , and set out on his way . 
You need not hurry , said Mrs. Yeobright . 
It will be better not to get there till after dusk , and then nobody will notice you . 
Come back here to supper , if it is not too late . 
He paused and thought of the money he carried . 
Pulling them on again and lacing them to the very top , he proceeded on his way , more easy in his head than under his soles . 
What ! Christian going too ? said Fairway as soon as he recognized the newcomer . 
You've got no young woman nor wife to your name to gie a gown piece to , I'm sure . 
What d'ye mean ? said Christian . 
The one we go to every year . 
Going to the raffle as well as ourselves ? Never knew a word o't . 
Is it like cudgel playing or other sportful forms of bloodshed ? I don't want to go , thank you , Mister Fairway , and no offence . 
Christian don't know the fun o't , and 'twould be a fine sight for him , said a buxom woman . 
There's no danger at all , Christian . 
Every man puts in a shilling apiece , and one wins a gown piece for his wife or sweetheart if he's got one . 
Well , as that's not my fortune there's no meaning in it to me . 
Sure , Christian , if you'd like to come we'll see there's no harm done . 
And no ba'dy gaieties , I suppose ? You see , neighbours , if so , it would be setting father a bad example , as he is so light moral'd . 
But a gown piece for a shilling , and no black art 'tis worth looking in to see , and it wouldn't hinder me half an hour . 
Among the cups on the long table before the sitters lay an open parcel of light drapery the gown piece , as it was called which was to be raffled for . 
Now , gentlemen , he continued , as the newcomers drew up to the table , there's five have entered , and we want four more to make up the number . 
Fairway , Sam , and another placed their shillings on the table , and the man turned to Christian . 
No , sir , said Christian , drawing back , with a quick gaze of misgiving . 
I am only a poor chap come to look on , an it please ye , sir . 
I don't so much as know how you do it . 
If so be I was sure of getting it I would put down the shilling but I couldn't otherwise . 
I think you might almost be sure , said the pedlar . 
You'll anyhow have the same chance as the rest of us , said Sam . 
And the extra luck of being the last comer , said another . 
And I was born wi' a caul , and perhaps can be no more ruined than drowned ? Christian added , beginning to give way . 
Ultimately Christian laid down his shilling , the raffle began , and the dice went round . 
When it came to Christian's turn he took the box with a trembling hand , shook it fearfully , and threw a pair royal . 
Three of the others had thrown common low pairs , and all the rest mere points . 
The gentleman looked like winning , as I said , observed the chapman blandly . 
Take it , sir the article is yours . 
Haw haw haw ! said Fairway . 
I'm damned if this isn't the quarest start that ever I knowed ! Mine ? asked Christian , with a vacant stare from his target eyes . 
I I haven't got neither maid , wife , nor widder belonging to me at all , and I'm afeard it will make me laughed at to ha'e it , Master Traveller . 
Perhaps 'twill tempt some woman that thy poor carcase had no power over when standing empty handed . 
Keep it , certainly , said Wildeve , who had idly watched the scene from a distance . 
The table was then cleared of the articles , and the men began to drink . 
Well , to be sure ! said Christian , half to himself . 
He handled the dice fondly one by one . 
What do you mean ? said Wildeve . 
Well , I must be going now . 
He looked anxiously towards Fairway . 
Where are you going ? Wildeve asked . 
I have to see Mrs. Thomasin there that's all . 
I am going there , too , to fetch Mrs. Wildeve . 
Wildeve became lost in thought , and a look of inward illumination came into his eyes . 
It was money for his wife that Mrs. Yeobright could not trust him with . 
Yet she could trust this fellow , he said to himself . 
Certainly , said Wildeve carelessly . 
They were only cut out by some lad with his knife , and are worth nothing . 
And Christian went back and privately pocketed them . 
Wildeve opened the door and looked out . 
The night was warm and cloudy . 
By Gad ! 'tis dark , he continued . 
But I suppose we shall find our way . 
If we should lose the path it might be awkward , said Christian . 
A lantern is the only shield that will make it safe for us . 
Let's have a lantern by all means . 
The stable lantern was fetched and lighted . 
Christian took up his gownpiece , and the two set out to ascend the hill . 
Within the room the men fell into chat till their attention was for a moment drawn to the chimney corner . 
From the niche a single object protruded into the light from the candles on the table . 
It was a clay pipe , and its colour was reddish . 
The men had been attracted to this object by a voice behind the pipe asking for a light . 
Upon my life , it fairly startled me when the man spoke ! said Fairway , handing a candle . 
Oh 'tis the reddleman ! You've kept a quiet tongue , young man . 
Yes , I had nothing to say , observed Venn . 
In a few minutes he arose and wished the company good night . 
Meanwhile Wildeve and Christian had plunged into the heath . 
The lantern , dangling from Christian's hand , brushed the feathery fronds in passing by , disturbing moths and other winged insects , which flew out and alighted upon its horny panes . 
So you have money to carry to Mrs. Wildeve ? said Christian's companion , after a silence . 
But my strict documents was , to give the money into Mrs. Wildeve's hand and 'tis well to do things right . 
No doubt , said Wildeve . 
Mrs. Yeobright's refusal implied that his honour was not considered to be of sufficiently good quality to make him a safer bearer of his wife's property . 
How very warm it is tonight , Christian ! he said , panting , when they were nearly under Rainbarrow . 
Let us sit down for a few minutes , for Heaven's sake . 
He presently thrust one hand into his coat pocket and began shaking it about . 
What are you rattling in there ? said Wildeve . 
Only the dice , sir , said Christian , quickly withdrawing his hand . 
What magical machines these little things be , Mr. Wildeve ! 'Tis a game I should never get tired of . 
Christian took them out and examined them in the hollow of his hand by the lantern light . 
They are a great deal in a small compass , You think ? Yes . 
Do ye suppose they really be the devil's playthings , Mr. Wildeve ? If so , 'tis no good sign that I be such a lucky man . 
You ought to win some money , now that you've got them . 
Any woman would marry you then . 
Now is your time , Christian , and I would recommend you not to let it slip . 
Some men are born to luck , some are not . 
I belong to the latter class . 
Did you ever know anybody who was born to it besides myself ? O yes . 
He played on for twenty four hours , and won ten thousand pounds , stripping the bank he had played against . 
Then there was another man who had lost a thousand pounds , and went to the broker's next day to sell stock , that he might pay the debt . 
The man to whom he owed the money went with him in a hackney coach and to pass the time they tossed who should pay the fare . 
The ruined man won , and the other was tempted to continue the game , and they played all the way . 
When the coachman stopped he was told to drive home again the whole thousand pounds had been won back by the man who was going to sell . 
Ha ha splendid ! exclaimed Christian . 
Go on go on ! Then there was a man of London , who was only a waiter at White's clubhouse . 
He began playing first half crown stakes , and then higher and higher , till he became very rich , got an appointment in India , and rose to be Governor of Madras . 
His daughter married a member of Parliament , and the Bishop of Carlisle stood godfather to one of the children . 
Wonderfull wonderfull And once there was a young man in America who gambled till he had lost his last dollar . 
Began taking off his breeches , and then a looker on gave him a trifle for his pluck . 
Won back his coat , won back his hat , won back his umbrella , his watch , his money , and went out of the door a rich man . 
Very well , said Wildeve , rising . 
Searching about with the lantern , he found a large flat stone , which he placed between himself and Christian , and sat down again . 
The lantern was opened to give more light , and it's rays directed upon the stone . 
Christian put down a shilling , Wildeve another , and each threw . 
They played for two , Christian won again . 
Let us try four , said Wildeve . 
This time the stakes were won by Wildeve . 
Ah , those little accidents will , of course , sometimes happen , to the luckiest man , he observed . 
And now I have no more money ! explained Christian excitedly . 
And yet , if I could go on , I should get it back again , and more . 
I wish this was mine . 
He struck his boot upon the ground , so that the guineas chinked within . 
What ! you have not put Mrs. Wildeve's money there ? Yes . 
Wildeve had been brooding ever since they started on the mean estimation in which he was held by his wife's friends and it cut his heart severely . 
As the minutes passed he had gradually drifted into a revengeful intention without knowing the precise moment of forming it . 
Well , here goes ! said Christian , beginning to unlace one boot . 
Wildeve had already placed a sovereign on the stone . 
The game was then resumed . 
Wildeve won first , and Christian ventured another , winning himself this time . 
The game fluctuated , but the average was in Wildeve's favour . 
At length Christian lost rapidly and presently , to his horror , the whole fifty guineas belonging to Thomasin had been handed over to his adversary . 
I don't care I don't care ! he moaned , and desperately set about untying his left boot to get at the other fifty . 
Wildeve began to be as excited as Christian himself . 
When commencing the game his intention had been nothing further than a bitter practical joke on Mrs. Yeobright . 
To win the money , fairly or otherwise , and to hand it contemptuously to Thomasin in her aunt's presence , had been the dim outline of his purpose . 
Moreover , he was now no longer gambling for his wife's money , but for Yeobright's though of this fact Christian , in his apprehensiveness , did not inform him till afterwards . 
It was nearly eleven o'clock , when , with almost a shriek , Christian placed Yeobright's last gleaming guinea upon the stone . 
In thirty seconds it had gone the way of its companions . 
Christian turned and flung himself on the ferns in a convulsion of remorse , O , what shall I do with my wretched self ? he groaned . 
What shall I do ? Will any good Heaven hae mercy upon my wicked soul ? Do ? Live on just the same . 
I won't live on just the same ! I'll die ! I say you are a a A man sharper than my neighbour . 
Yes , a man sharper than my neighbour a regular sharper ! Poor chips in porridge , you are very unmannerly . 
I don't know about that ! And I say you be unmannerly ! You've got money that isn't your own . 
Half the guineas are poor Mr. Clym's . 
How's that ? Because I had to gie fifty of 'em to him . 
Well , 'twould have been more graceful of her to have given them to his wife Eustacia . 
But they are in my hands now . 
Christian pulled on his boots , and with heavy breathings , which could be heard to some distance , dragged his limbs together , arose , and tottered away out of sight . 
While he was closing the little horn door a figure rose from behind a neighbouring bush and came forward into the lantern light . 
It was the reddleman approaching . 
A New Force Disturbs the Current Wildeve stared . 
You have been watching us from behind that bush ? said Wildeve . 
Down with your stake , he said . 
He placed one of the guineas on a slab beside the reddleman's sovereign . 
Mine is a guinea , he said . 
A guinea that's not your own , said Venn sarcastically . 
It is my own , answered Wildeve haughtily . 
It is my wife's , and what is hers is mine . 
Very well let's make a beginning . 
He shook the box , and threw eight , ten , and nine the three casts amounted to twenty seven . 
He took the box and his three casts amounted to forty five . 
Down went another of the reddleman's sovereigns against his first one which Wildeve laid . 
This time Wildeve threw fifty one points , but no pair . 
The reddleman looked grim , threw a raffle of aces , and pocketed the stakes . 
Here you are again , said Wildeve contemptuously . 
He laid two of Thomasin's guineas , and the reddleman his two pounds . 
New stakes were laid on the stone , and the gamblers proceeded as before . 
Wildeve was a nervous and excitable man , and the game was beginning to tell upon his temper . 
He writhed , fumed , shifted his seat , and the beating of his heart was almost audible . 
Venn sat with lips impassively closed and eyes reduced to a pair of unimportant twinkles he scarcely appeared to breathe . 
He might have been an Arab , or an automaton he would have been like a red sandstone statue but for the motion of his arm with the dice box . 
The game fluctuated , now in favour of one , now in favour of the other , without any great advantage on the side of either . 
Nearly twenty minutes were passed thus . 
By this time a change had come over the game the reddleman won continually . 
At length sixty guineas Thomasin's fifty , and ten of Clym's had passed into his hands . 
Wildeve was reckless , frantic , exasperated . 
'Won back his coat , said Venn slily . 
Another throw , and the money went the same way . 
'Won back his hat , continued Venn . 
Oh , oh ! said Wildeve . 
Five more ! shouted Wildeve , dashing down the money . 
And three casts be hanged one shall decide . 
The red automaton opposite lapsed into silence , nodded , and followed his example . 
Wildeve rattled the box , and threw a pair of sixes and five points . 
He clapped his hands I have done it this time hurrah ! There are two playing , and only one has thrown , said the reddleman , quietly bringing down the box . 
The eyes of each were then so intently converged upon the stone that one could fancy their beams were visible , like rays in a fog . 
Venn lifted the box , and behold a triplet of sixes was disclosed . 
Wildeve was full of fury . 
While the reddleman was grasping the stakes Wildeve seized the dice and hurled them , box and all , into the darkness , uttering a fearful imprecation . 
Then he arose and began stamping up and down like a madman . 
It is all over , then ? said Venn . 
No , no ! cried Wildeve . 
I mean to have another chance yet . 
I must ! But , my good man , what have you done with the dice ? I threw them away it was a momentary irritation . 
What a fool I am ! Here come and help me to look for them we must find them again . 
Wildeve snatched up the lantern and began anxiously prowling among the furze and fern . 
You are not likely to find them there , said Venn , following . 
What did you do such a crazy thing as that for ? Here's the box . 
The dice can't be far off . 
Wildeve turned the light eagerly upon the spot where Venn had found the box , and mauled the herbage right and left . 
In the course of a few minutes one of the dice was found . 
They searched on for some time , but no other was to be seen . 
Never mind , said Wildeve let's play with one . 
Down they sat again , and recommenced with single guinea stakes and the play went on smartly . 
But Fortune had unmistakably fallen in love with the reddleman tonight . 
He won steadily , till he was the owner of fourteen more of the gold pieces . 
Seventy nine of the hundred guineas were his , Wildeve possessing only twenty one . 
The aspect of the two opponents was now singular . 
Apart from motions , a complete diorama of the fluctuations of the game went on in their eyes . 
Wildeve played on with the recklessness of despair . 
What's that ? he suddenly exclaimed , hearing a rustle and they both looked up . 
They were surrounded by dusky forms between four and five feet high , standing a few paces beyond the rays of the lantern . 
A moment's inspection revealed that the encircling figures were heath croppers , their heads being all towards the players , at whom they gazed intently . 
Hoosh ! said Wildeve , and the whole forty or fifty animals at once turned and galloped away . 
Wildeve had just thrown , but had not lifted the box to see what he had cast and now it was impossible . 
What the infernal ! he shrieked . 
Now , what shall we do ? Perhaps I have thrown six have you any matches ? None , said Venn . 
Christian had some I wonder where he is . 
Christian ! But there was no reply to Wildeve's shout , save a mournful whining from the herons which were nesting lower down the vale . 
Both men looked blankly round without rising . 
As their eyes grew accustomed to the darkness they perceived faint greenish points of light among the grass and fern . 
These lights dotted the hillside like stars of a low magnitude . 
Ah glowworms , said Wildeve . 
We can continue the game . 
The reddleman vented a low humorous laugh when he saw his adversary return with these . 
Determined to go on , then ? he said drily . 
I always am ! said Wildeve angrily . 
The game was again renewed . 
The incongruity between the men's deeds and their environment was great . 
Wildeve had lifted the box as soon as the lights were obtained , and the solitary die proclaimed that the game was still against him . 
I won't play any more you've been tampering with the dice , he shouted . 
How when they were your own ? said the reddleman . 
We'll change the game the lowest point shall win the stake it may cut off my ill luck . 
Do you refuse ? No go on , said Venn . 
O , there they are again damn them ! cried Wildeve , looking up . 
What a plague those creatures are staring at me so ! he said , and flung a stone , which scattered them when the game was continued as before . 
Wildeve had now ten guineas left and each laid five . 
Wildeve threw three points Venn two , and raked in the coins . 
The other seized the die , and clenched his teeth upon it in sheer rage , as if he would bite it in pieces . 
Never give in here are my last five ! he cried , throwing them down . 
Hang the glowworms they are going out . 
Why don't you burn , you little fools ? Stir them up with a thorn . 
He probed the glowworms with a bit of stick , and rolled them over , till the bright side of their tails was upwards . 
Throw on , said Venn . 
Wildeve brought down the box within the shining circle and looked eagerly . 
Well done ! I said it would turn , and it has turned . 
Venn said nothing but his hand shook slightly . 
Curse me ! The die smacked the stone a second time . 
Venn looked gloomy , threw the die was seen to be lying in two pieces , the cleft sides uppermost . 
I've thrown nothing at all , he said . 
Serves me right I split the die with my teeth . 
Blank is less than one . 
Take it , I say you've won it ! And Wildeve threw the stakes against the reddleman's chest . 
Venn gathered them up , arose , and withdrew from the hollow , Wildeve sitting stupefied . 
When he had come to himself he also arose , and , with the extinguished lantern in his hand , went towards the highroad . 
On reaching it he stood still . 
The silence of night pervaded the whole heath except in one direction and that was towards Mistover . 
There he could hear the noise of light wheels , and presently saw two carriagelamps descending the hill . 
Wildeve screened himself under a bush and waited . 
The vehicle came on and passed before him . 
It was a hired carriage , and behind the coachman were two persons whom he knew well . 
There sat Eustacia and Yeobright , the arm of the latter being round her waist . 
They turned the sharp corner at the bottom towards the temporary home which Clym had hired and furnished , about five miles to the eastward . 
Brimming with the subtilized misery that he was capable of feeling , he followed the opposite way towards the inn . 
When he saw who sat therein he seemed to be disappointed . 
He was now again in front of the carriage , which presently came up at a walking pace . 
Venn stepped forward and showed himself . 
Eustacia started when the lamp shone upon him , and Clym's arm was involuntarily withdrawn from her waist . 
He said , What , Diggory ? You are having a lonely walk . 
Yes I beg your pardon for stopping you , said Venn . 
But I am waiting about for Mrs. Wildeve I have something to give her from Mrs. Yeobright . 
Can you tell me if she's gone home from the party yet ? No. But she will be leaving soon . 
You may possibly meet her at the corner . 
Venn made a farewell obeisance , and walked back to his former position , where the byroad from Mistover joined the highway . 
Here he remained fixed for nearly half an hour , and then another pair of lights came down the hill . 
It was the old fashioned wheeled nondescript belonging to the captain , and Thomasin sat in it alone , driven by Charley . 
The reddleman came up as they slowly turned the corner . 
I beg pardon for stopping you , Mrs. Wildeve , he said . 
But I have something to give you privately from Mrs. Yeobright . 
He handed a small parcel it consisted of the hundred guineas he had just won , roughly twisted up in a piece of paper . 
Thomasin recovered from her surprise , and took the packet . 
That's all , ma'am I wish you good night , he said , and vanished from her view . 
His mistake had been based upon Wildeve's words at the opening of the game , when he indignantly denied that the guinea was not his own . 
He entered this movable home of his , lit his lantern , and , before closing his door for the night , stood reflecting on the circumstances of the preceding hours . 
Venn , thoroughly weary , then shut his door and flung himself down to sleep . 
book four THE CLOSED DOOR The Rencounter by the Pool The July sun shone over Egdon and fired its crimson heather to scarlet . 
It was the one season of the year , and the one weather of the season , in which the heath was gorgeous . 
Clym and Eustacia , in their little house at Alderworth , beyond East Egdon , were living on with a monotony which was delightful to them . 
The heath and changes of weather were quite blotted out from their eyes for the present . 
They were enclosed in a sort of luminous mist , which hid from them surroundings of any inharmonious colour , and gave to all things the character of light . 
They were like those double stars which revolve round and round each other , and from a distance appear to be one . 
The absolute solitude in which they lived intensified their reciprocal thoughts yet some might have said that it had the disadvantage of consuming their mutual affections at a fearfully prodigal rate . 
When three or four weeks had been passed thus , Yeobright resumed his reading in earnest . 
To make up for lost time he studied indefatigably , for he wished to enter his new profession with the least possible delay . 
Now , Eustacia's dream had always been that , once married to Clym , she would have the power of inducing him to return to Paris . 
Her hopes were bound up in this dream . 
Yet Yeobright was as firm in the contrary intention as if the tendency of marriage were rather to develop the fantasies of young philanthropy than to sweep them away . 
Her anxiety reached a high pitch but there was something in Clym's undeviating manner which made her hesitate before sounding him on the subject . 
At this point in their experience , however , an incident helped her . 
It occurred one evening about six weeks after their union , and arose entirely out of the unconscious misapplication of Venn of the fifty guineas intended for Yeobright . 
A day or two after the receipt of the money Thomasin had sent a note to her aunt to thank her . 
She had been surprised at the largeness of the amount but as no sum had ever been mentioned she set that down to her late uncle's generosity . 
Mrs. Yeobright was in this state of uncertainty when she was informed one morning that her son's wife was visiting her grandfather at Mistover . 
When Christian learnt where she was going his concern reached its height . 
What , is he going to keep them ? Mrs. Yeobright cried . 
I hope and trust not ! moaned Christian . 
He's a good man , and perhaps will do right things . 
He said you ought to have gied Mr. Clym's share to Eustacia , and that's perhaps what he'll do himself . 
The intermediate course of giving it to Eustacia was the sort of thing to please Wildeve's fancy . 
But it filled the mother with anger none the less . 
Then she hastened off to Eustacia , moved by a much less promising emotion towards her daughter in law than she had felt half an hour earlier , when planning her journey . 
When Mrs. Yeobright approached , Eustacia surveyed her with the calm stare of a stranger . 
The mother in law was the first to speak . 
I was coming to see you , she said . 
Indeed ! said Eustacia with surprise , for Mrs. Yeobright , much to the girl's mortification , had refused to be present at the wedding . 
I did not at all expect you . 
I was coming on business only , said the visitor , more coldly than at first . 
I simply ask the question , said Mrs. Yeobright . 
It is the instinct of everyone to look after their own . 
How can you imply that he required guarding against me ? cried Eustacia , passionate tears in her eyes . 
I only did what was fair under the circumstances , said Mrs. Yeobright more softly . 
I would rather not have gone into this question at present , but you compel me . 
I am not ashamed to tell you the honest truth . 
I was firmly convinced that he ought not to marry you therefore I tried to dissuade him by all the means in my power . 
But it is done now , and I have no idea of complaining any more . 
I am ready to welcome you . 
Ah , yes , it is very well to see things in that business point of view , murmured Eustacia with a smothered fire of feeling . 
But why should you think there is anything between me and Mr. Wildeve ? I have a spirit as well as you . 
I am indignant and so would any woman be . 
Oh ! said Mrs. Yeobright , vainly endeavouring to control her anger . 
I have never heard anything to show that my son's lineage is not as good as the Vyes' perhaps better . 
It is amusing to hear you talk of condescension . 
It was condescension , nevertheless , said Eustacia vehemently . 
It would be better not to say that it might not sound truthful . 
I am not aware that any deception was used on his part I know there was not whatever might have been the case on the other side . 
This is too exasperating ! answered the younger woman huskily , her face crimsoning , and her eyes darting light . 
I have never uttered a sound of such a thing to him but it is true . 
I hope therefore that in the future you will be silent on my eagerness . 
If you injure me now you injure yourself . 
But I have never spoken of you outside my house . 
You spoke of me within it , to Clym , and you could not do worse . 
A part of which will possibly be to set him against his mother . 
But why should I not bear it as others have borne it before me ! I understand you , said Eustacia , breathless with emotion . 
You think me capable of every bad thing . 
Who can be worse than a wife who encourages a lover , and poisons her husband's mind against his relative ? Yet that is now the character given to me . 
Will you not come and drag him out of my hands ? Mrs. Yeobright gave back heat for heat . 
Don't rage at me , madam ! It ill becomes your beauty , and I am not worth the injury you may do it on my account , I assure you . 
I am only a poor old woman who has lost a son . 
If you had treated me honourably you would have had him still . 
Eustacia said , while scalding tears trickled from her eyes . 
You have brought yourself to folly you have caused a division which can never be healed ! I have done nothing . 
This audacity from a young woman is more than I can bear . 
It was asked for you have suspected me , and you have made me speak of my husband in a way I would not have done . 
You will let him know that I have spoken thus , and it will cause misery between us . 
Will you go away from me ? You are no friend ! I will go when I have spoken a word . 
If anyone says I have come here to question you without good grounds for it , that person speaks untruly . 
If anyone says that I attempted to stop your marriage by any but honest means , that person , too , does not speak the truth . 
You , Eustacia , stand on the edge of a precipice without knowing it . 
She came indoors with her face flushed , and her eyes still showing traces of her recent excitement . 
Yeobright looked up astonished he had never seen her in any way approaching to that state before . 
She passed him by , and would have gone upstairs unnoticed , but Clym was so concerned that he immediately followed her . 
What is the matter , Eustacia ? he said . 
She was standing on the hearthrug in the bedroom , looking upon the floor , her hands clasped in front of her , her bonnet yet unremoved . 
She had set out gaily and he had hoped for much . 
Why is this ? he asked . 
I cannot tell I cannot remember . 
And I will never meet her again . 
Why ? What do I know about Mr. Wildeve now ? I won't have wicked opinions passed on me by anybody . 
Then there must have been some meaning in it . 
Whose fault was it that her meaning was not made clear ? I would rather not say . 
It may have been the fault of the circumstances , which were awkward at the very least . 
O Clym I cannot help expressing it this is an unpleasant position that you have placed me in . 
But I have quite given up that idea , said Yeobright , with surprise . 
Surely I never led you to expect such a thing ? I own it . 
Yet there are thoughts which cannot be kept out of mind , and that one was mine . 
Clym , I am unhappy at what I hear , she said in a low voice and her eyes drooped , and she turned away . 
This indication of an unexpected mine of hope in Eustacia's bosom disconcerted her husband . 
It was the first time that he had confronted the fact of the indirectness of a woman's movement towards her desire . 
But his intention was unshaken , though he loved Eustacia well . 
Next day the mystery of the guineas was explained . 
Thomasin paid them a hurried visit , and Clym's share was delivered up to him by her own hands . 
Eustacia was not present at the time . 
Then this is what my mother meant , exclaimed Clym . 
Thomasin , do you know that they have had a bitter quarrel ? There was a little more reticence now than formerly in Thomasin's manner towards her cousin . 
It is the effect of marriage to engender in several directions some of the reserve it annihilates in one . 
Your mother told me , she said quietly . 
She came back to my house after seeing Eustacia . 
The worst thing I dreaded has come to pass . 
Was Mother much disturbed when she came to you , Thomasin ? Yes . 
Very much indeed ? Yes . 
Clym leant his elbow upon the post of the garden gate , and covered his eyes with his hand . 
Don't trouble about it , Clym . 
They may get to be friends . 
Not two people with inflammable natures like theirs . 
Well , what must be will be . 
One thing is cheerful in it the guineas are not lost . 
I would rather have lost them twice over than have had this happen . 
Amid these jarring events Yeobright felt one thing to be indispensable that he should speedily make some show of progress in his scholastic plans . 
With this view he read far into the small hours during many nights . 
One morning , after a severer strain than usual , he awoke with a strange sensation in his eyes . 
The sun was shining directly upon the window blind , and at his first glance thitherward a sharp pain obliged him to close his eyelids quickly . 
At every new attempt to look about him the same morbid sensibility to light was manifested , and excoriating tears ran down his cheeks . 
He was obliged to tie a bandage over his brow while dressing and during the day it could not be abandoned . 
On finding that the case was no better the next morning they decided to send to Anglebury for a surgeon . 
Fretting with impatience at this interruption to a task he was so anxious to hasten , Clym was transformed into an invalid . 
One week and another week wore on , and nothing seemed to lighten the gloom of the young couple . 
Dreadful imaginings occurred to Eustacia , but she carefully refrained from uttering them to her husband . 
Yeobright thought he would send for his mother and then he thought he would not . 
The surgeon visited him again at this stage , and Clym urged him to express a distinct opinion . 
Clym was very grave at the intelligence , but not despairing . 
A quiet firmness , and even cheerfulness , took possession of him . 
He was not to be blind that was enough . 
To keep a cottage night school was one such form and his affliction did not master his spirit as it might otherwise have done . 
He walked through the warm sun westward into those tracts of Egdon with which he was best acquainted , being those lying nearer to his old home . 
The worker recognized Clym , and Yeobright learnt from the voice that the speaker was Humphrey . 
Humphrey expressed his sorrow at Clym's condition , and added , Now , if yours was low class work like mine , you could go on with it just the same . 
Yes , I could , said Yeobright musingly . 
How much do you get for cutting these faggots ? Half a crown a hundred , and in these long days I can live very well on the wages . 
During the whole of Yeobright's walk home to Alderworth he was lost in reflections which were not of an unpleasant kind . 
On his coming up to the house Eustacia spoke to him from the open window , and he went across to her . 
Darling , he said , I am much happier . 
And if my mother were reconciled to me and to you I should , I think , be happy quite . 
I fear that will never be , she said , looking afar with her beautiful stormy eyes . 
Yes ? I am going to be a furze and turf cutter . 
No , Clym ! she said , the slight hopefulness previously apparent in her face going off again , and leaving her worse than before . 
If I go furze cutting we shall be fairly well off . 
In comparison with slaves , and the Israelites in Egypt , and such people ! A bitter tear rolled down Eustacia's face , which he did not see . 
There had been nonchalance in his tone , showing her that he felt no absolute grief at a consummation which to her was a positive horror . 
Then he sallied forth with his new fellow labourer and old acquaintance , and selecting a spot where the furze grew thickest he struck the first blow in his adopted calling . 
Day after day he rose with the sun , buckled on his leggings , and went off to the rendezvous with Humphrey . 
He was a brown spot in the midst of an expanse of olive green gorse , and nothing more . 
His daily life was of a curious microscopic sort , his whole world being limited to a circuit of a few feet from his person . 
His familiars were creeping and winged things , and they seemed to enroll him in their band . 
Bees hummed around his ears with an intimate air , and tugged at the heath and furze flowers at his side in such numbers as to weigh them down to the sod . 
Huge flies , ignorant of larders and wire netting , and quite in a savage state , buzzed about him without knowing that he was a man . 
None of them feared him . 
The monotony of his occupation soothed him , and was in itself a pleasure . 
A forced limitation of effort offered a justification of homely courses to an unambitious man , whose conscience would hardly have allowed him to remain in such obscurity while his powers were unimpeded . 
On one of these warm afternoons Eustacia walked out alone in the direction of Yeobright's place of work . 
He was busily chopping away at the furze , a long row of faggots which stretched downward from his position representing the labour of the day . 
He did not observe her approach , and she stood close to him , and heard his undercurrent of song . 
I would starve rather than do it ! she exclaimed vehemently . 
And you can sing ! I will go and live with my grandfather again ! Eustacia ! I did not see you , though I noticed something moving , he said gently . 
He came forward , pulled off his huge leather glove , and took her hand . 
What tone ? The tone in which you said , 'Your wife indeed . 
It meant , 'Your wife , worse luck . 
It is hard in you to probe me with that remark . 
A woman may have reason , though she is not without heart , and if I felt 'worse luck , it was no ignoble feeling it was only too natural . 
There , you see that at any rate I do not attempt untruths . 
Do you remember how , before we were married , I warned you that I had not good wifely qualities ? You mock me to say that now . 
Does not that content you ? Not unless you are my wife without regret . 
I remember saying that I should be a serious matter on your hands . 
Yes , I saw that . 
Then you were too quick to see ! No true lover would have seen any such thing you are too severe upon me , Clym I won't like your speaking so at all . 
Well , I married you in spite of it , and don't regret doing so . 
How cold you seem this afternoon ! and yet I used to think there never was a warmer heart than yours . 
Yes , I fear we are cooling I see it as well as you , she sighed mournfully . 
And how madly we loved two months ago ! You were never tired of contemplating me , nor I of contemplating you . 
No. I don't sigh for that . 
There are other things for me to sigh for , or any other woman in my place . 
As much ? I think I deserve it more . 
Even had you felt careless about your own affliction , you might have refrained from singing out of sheer pity for mine . 
God ! if I were a man in such a position I would curse rather than sing . 
Yeobright placed his hand upon her arm . 
Now , don't you suppose , my inexperienced girl , that I cannot rebel , in high Promethean fashion , against the gods and fate as well as you . 
I have felt more steam and smoke of that sort than you have ever heard of . 
But the more I see of life the more do I perceive that there is nothing particularly great in its greatest walks , and therefore nothing particularly small in mine of furze cutting . 
Have you indeed lost all tenderness for me , that you begrudge me a few cheerful moments ? I have still some tenderness left for you . 
Your words have no longer their old flavour . 
And so love dies with good fortune ! I cannot listen to this , Clym it will end bitterly , she said in a broken voice . 
She Goes Out to Battle against Depression A few days later , before the month of August has expired , Eustacia and Yeobright sat together at their early dinner . 
Eustacia's manner had become of late almost apathetic . 
The feelings of husband and wife varied , in some measure , inversely with their positions . 
Clym , the afflicted man , was cheerful and he even tried to comfort her , who had never felt a moment of physical suffering in her whole life . 
Come , brighten up , dearest we shall be all right again . 
Some day perhaps I shall see as well as ever . 
And I solemnly promise that I'll leave off cutting furze as soon as I have the power to do anything better . 
And now I am a poor fellow in brown leather . 
I will not be depressed any more . 
I am going from home this afternoon , unless you greatly object . 
There is to be a village picnic a gipsying , they call it at East Egdon , and I shall go . 
To dance ? Why not ? You can sing . 
Well , well , as you will . 
Must I come to fetch you ? If you return soon enough from your work . 
But do not inconvenience yourself about it . 
I know the way home , and the heath has no terror for me . 
Still , I somehow wish that you did not want to go . 
Yes , perhaps I am jealous and who could be jealous with more reason than I , a half blind man , over such a woman as you ? Don't think like it . 
Let me go , and don't take all my spirits away ! I would rather lose all my own , my sweet wife . 
Go and do whatever you like . 
Yes , go alone and shine . 
As for me , I will stick to my doom . 
At that kind of meeting people would shun me . 
My hook and gloves are like the St . 
Lazarus rattle of the leper , warning the world to get out of the way of a sight that would sadden them . 
He kissed her , put on his leggings , and went out . 
When he was gone she rested her head upon her hands and said to herself , Two wasted lives his and mine . 
Suddenly she aroused herself and exclaimed , But I'll shake it off . 
Yes , I WILL shake it off ! No one shall know my suffering . 
I'll be bitterly merry , and ironically gay , and I'll laugh in derision . 
And I'll begin by going to this dance on the green . 
She ascended to her bedroom and dressed herself with scrupulous care . 
To an onlooker her beauty would have made her feelings almost seem reasonable . 
It was five in the afternoon when she came out from the house ready for her walk . 
There was material enough in the picture for twenty new conquests . 
The heat of the day had scarcely declined as yet , and she went along the sunny hills at a leisurely pace , there being ample time for her idle expedition . 
Tall ferns buried her in their leafage whenever her path lay through them , which now formed miniature forests , though not one stem of them would remain to bud the next year . 
The site chosen for the village festivity was one of the lawnlike oases which were occasionally , yet not often , met with on the plateaux of the heath district . 
The brakes of furze and fern terminated abruptly round the margin , and the grass was unbroken . 
A green cattletrack skirted the spot , without , however , emerging from the screen of fern , and this path Eustacia followed , in order to reconnoitre the group before joining it . 
In front of this was the grand central dance of fifteen or twenty couples , flanked by minor dances of inferior individuals whose gyrations were not always in strict keeping with the tune . 
In the background was one happy man dancing by himself , with closed eyes , totally oblivious of all the rest . 
A fire was burning under a pollard thorn a few paces off , over which three kettles hung in a row . 
This unexpected absence of the only local resident whom Eustacia knew considerably damaged her scheme for an afternoon of reckless gaiety . 
A whole village full of sensuous emotion , scattered abroad all the year long , surged here in a focus for an hour . 
The forty hearts of those waving couples were beating as they had not done since , twelve months before , they had come together in similar jollity . 
For the time paganism was revived in their hearts , the pride of life was all in all , and they adored none other than themselves . 
She began to envy those pirouetters , to hunger for the hope and happiness which the fascination of the dance seemed to engender within them . 
Desperately fond of dancing herself , one of Eustacia's expectations of Paris had been the opportunity it might afford her of indulgence in this favourite pastime . 
Unhappily , that expectation was now extinct within her for ever . 
Whilst she abstractedly watched them spinning and fluctuating in the increasing moonlight she suddenly heard her name whispered by a voice over her shoulder . 
Turning in surprise , she beheld at her elbow one whose presence instantly caused her to flush to the temples . 
Yet why the sight of him should have instigated that sudden rush of blood she could not tell . 
Before she could speak he whispered , Do you like dancing as much as ever ? I think I do , she replied in a low voice . 
Still , if you don't like to be seen , pull down your veil though there is not much risk of being known by this light . 
Lots of strangers are here . 
She did as he suggested and the act was a tacit acknowledgment that she accepted his offer . 
Wildeve gave her his arm and took her down on the outside of the ring to the bottom of the dance , which they entered . 
In two minutes more they were involved in the figure and began working their way upwards to the top . 
Fairly launched into the ceaseless glides and whirls which their new position as top couple opened up to them , Eustacia's pulses began to move too quickly for long rumination of any kind . 
Through the length of five and twenty couples they threaded their giddy way , and a new vitality entered her form . 
The pale ray of evening lent a fascination to the experience . 
All the dancing girls felt the symptoms , but Eustacia most of all . 
The grass under their feet became trodden away , and the hard , beaten surface of the sod , when viewed aslant towards the moonlight , shone like a polished table . 
The pretty dresses of the maids lost their subtler day colours and showed more or less of a misty white . 
How near she was to Wildeve ! it was terrible to think of . 
She could feel his breathing , and he , of course , could feel hers . 
How badly she had treated him ! yet , here they were treading one measure . 
The enchantment of the dance surprised her . 
A clear line of difference divided like a tangible fence her experience within this maze of motion from her experience without it . 
Her beginning to dance had been like a change of atmosphere outside , she had been steeped in arctic frigidity by comparison with the tropical sensations here . 
She had entered the dance from the troubled hours of her late life as one might enter a brilliant chamber after a night walk in a wood . 
Wildeve by himself would have been merely an agitation Wildeve added to the dance , and the moonlight , and the secrecy , began to be a delight . 
People began to say Who are they ? but no invidious inquiries were made . 
Like the planet Mercury surrounded by the lustre of sunset , her permanent brilliancy passed without much notice in the temporary glory of the situation . 
As for Wildeve , his feelings are easy to guess . 
Obstacles were a ripening sun to his love , and he was at this moment in a delirium of exquisite misery . 
To clasp as his for five minutes what was another man's through all the rest of the year was a kind of thing he of all men could appreciate . 
Thus , for different reasons , what was to the rest an exhilarating movement was to these two a riding upon the whirlwind . 
The dance had come like an irresistible attack upon whatever sense of social order there was in their minds , to drive them back into old paths which were now doubly irregular . 
Through three dances in succession they spun their way and then , fatigued with the incessant motion , Eustacia turned to quit the circle in which she had already remained too long . 
Wildeve led her to a grassy mound a few yards distant , where she sat down , her partner standing beside her . 
From the time that he addressed her at the beginning of the dance till now they had not exchanged a word . 
The dance and the walking have tired you ? he said tenderly . 
It is strange that we should have met here of all places , after missing each other so long . 
We have missed because we tried to miss , I suppose . 
But you began that proceeding by breaking a promise . 
It is scarcely worth while to talk of that now . 
We have formed other ties since then you no less than I. I am sorry to hear that your husband is ill . 
He is not ill only incapacitated . 
Yes that is what I mean . 
I sincerely sympathize with you in your trouble . 
Fate has treated you cruelly . 
Have you heard that he has chosen to work as a furze cutter ? she said in a low , mournful voice . 
It has been mentioned to me , answered Wildeve hesitatingly . 
But I hardly believed it . 
What do you think of me as a furze cutter's wife ? I think the same as ever of you , Eustacia . 
Nothing of that sort can degrade you you ennoble the occupation of your husband . 
I wish I could feel it . 
Is there any chance of Mr. Yeobright getting better ? He thinks so . 
I was quite surprised to hear that he had taken a cottage . 
I thought , in common with other people , that he would have taken you off to a home in Paris immediately after you had married him . 
'What a gay , bright future she has before her ! I thought . 
He will , I suppose , return there with you , if his sight gets strong again ? Observing that she did not reply he regarded her more closely . 
Wildeve could hardly control his own too forward feelings when he saw her silent perturbation . 
But he affected not to notice this , and she soon recovered her calmness . 
You do not intend to walk home by yourself ? he asked . 
O yes , said Eustacia . 
What could hurt me on this heath , who have nothing ? By diverging a little I can make my way home the same as yours . 
I shall be glad to keep you company as far as Throope Corner . 
I shall accept whose company I choose , for all that may be said by the miserable inhabitants of Egdon . 
Then let us walk on if you are ready . 
Our nearest way is towards that holly bush with the dark shadow that you see down there . 
To an eye above them their two faces would have appeared amid the expanse like two pearls on a table of ebony . 
They performed the journey for the most part in silence , and drew near to Throope Corner , a few hundred yards from which a short path branched away to Eustacia's house . 
By degrees they discerned coming towards them a pair of human figures , apparently of the male sex . 
When they came a little nearer Eustacia broke the silence by saying , One of those men is my husband . 
He promised to come to meet me . 
And the other is my greatest enemy , said Wildeve . 
It looks like Diggory Venn . 
It is an awkward meeting , said she but such is my fortune . 
He knows too much about me , unless he could know more , and so prove to himself that what he now knows counts for nothing . 
Well , let it be you must deliver me up to them . 
You will think twice before you direct me to do that . 
Here is a man who has not forgotten an item in our meetings at Rainbarrow he is in company with your husband . 
Which of them , seeing us together here , will believe that our meeting and dancing at the gipsy party was by chance ? Very well , she whispered gloomily . 
Leave me before they come up . 
Wildeve bade her a tender farewell , and plunged across the fern and furze , Eustacia slowly walking on . 
In two or three minutes she met her husband and his companion . 
My journey ends here for tonight , reddleman , said Yeobright as soon as he perceived her . 
I turn back with this lady . 
Good night , Mr. Yeobright , said Venn . 
I hope to see you better soon . 
The moonlight shone directly upon Venn's face as he spoke , and revealed all its lines to Eustacia . 
He was looking suspiciously at her . 
That Venn's keen eye had discerned what Yeobright's feeble vision had not a man in the act of withdrawing from Eustacia's side was within the limits of the probable . 
If Eustacia had been able to follow the reddleman she would soon have found striking confirmation of her thought . 
Stretching out his long legs , he crossed the pathless portion of the heath somewhat in the direction which Wildeve had taken . 
But Venn went on without much inconvenience to himself , and the course of his scamper was towards the Quiet Woman Inn . 
Venn went to the public room , called for a mug of ale , and inquired of the maid in an indifferent tone if Mr. Wildeve was at home . 
Thomasin sat in an inner room and heard Venn's voice . 
When customers were present she seldom showed herself , owing to her inherent dislike for the business but perceiving that no one else was there tonight she came out . 
He is not at home yet , Diggory , she said pleasantly . 
But I expected him sooner . 
He has been to East Egdon to buy a horse . 
Did he wear a light wideawake ? Yes . 
Then I saw him at Throope Corner , leading one home , said Venn drily . 
A beauty , with a white face and a mane as black as night . 
He will soon be here , no doubt . 
O yes , cried Thomasin in what was intended to be a tone of gaiety . 
Husbands will play the truant , you know . 
I wish you could tell me of some secret plan that would help me to keep him home at my will in the evenings . 
I will consider if I know of one , replied Venn in that same light tone which meant no lightness . 
And then he bowed in a manner of his own invention and moved to go . 
Thomasin offered him her hand and without a sigh , though with food for many , the reddleman went out . 
The man asks too much . 
But somebody saw you at Throope Corner leading it home a beauty , with a white face and a mane as black as night . 
Ah ! said Wildeve , fixing his eyes upon her who told you that ? Venn the reddleman . 
The expression of Wildeve's face became curiously condensed . 
That is a mistake it must have been someone else , he said slowly and testily , for he perceived that Venn's countermoves had begun again . 
Yet he suddenly began to feel himself drifting into the old track of manoeuvring on Thomasin's account . 
He sat in his van and considered . 
From Thomasin's words and manner he had plainly gathered that Wildeve neglected her . 
For whom could he neglect her if not for Eustacia ? Yet it was scarcely credible that things had come to such a head as to indicate that Eustacia systematically encouraged him . 
Venn resolved to reconnoitre somewhat carefully the lonely road which led along the vale from Wildeve's dwelling to Clym's house at Alderworth . 
It was plain that Wildeve's intrigue was rather ideal than real . 
When Wildeve came on to that spot his ankle was caught by something , and he fell headlong . 
As soon as he had recovered the power of respiration he sat up and listened . 
There was not a sound in the gloom beyond the spiritless stir of the summer wind . 
Wildeve pulled off the string that bound them , and went on with tolerable quickness . 
On reaching home he found the cord to be of a reddish colour . 
It was just what he had expected . 
Although his weaknesses were not specially those akin to physical fear , this species of coup de Jarnac from one he knew too well troubled the mind of Wildeve . 
But his movements were unaltered thereby . 
A night or two later he again went along the vale to Alderworth , taking the precaution of keeping out of any path . 
He imagined that Venn and Mrs. Yeobright were in league , and felt that there was a certain legitimacy in combating such a coalition . 
He could see into the room , and Eustacia was sitting there alone . 
Wildeve contemplated her for a minute , and then retreating into the heath beat the ferns lightly , whereupon moths flew out alarmed . 
Securing one , he returned to the window , and holding the moth to the chink , opened his hand . 
The moth made towards the candle upon Eustacia's table , hovered round it two or three times , and flew into the flame . 
This had been a well known signal in old times when Wildeve had used to come secretly wooing to Mistover . 
She at once knew that Wildeve was outside , but before she could consider what to do her husband came in from upstairs . 
Eustacia's face burnt crimson at the unexpected collision of incidents , and filled it with an animation that it too frequently lacked . 
You have a very high colour , dearest , said Yeobright , when he came close enough to see it . 
Your appearance would be no worse if it were always so . 
I am warm , said Eustacia . 
I think I will go into the air for a few minutes . 
Shall I go with you ? O no . 
I am only going to the gate . 
She arose , but before she had time to get out of the room a loud rapping began upon the front door . 
I'll go I'll go , said Eustacia in an unusually quick tone for her and she glanced eagerly towards the window whence the moth had flown but nothing appeared there . 
You had better not at this time of the evening , he said . 
Clym stepped before her into the passage , and Eustacia waited , her somnolent manner covering her inner heat and agitation . 
She listened , and Clym opened the door . 
No words were uttered outside , and presently he closed it and came back , saying , Nobody was there . 
Meanwhile a little drama had been acted outside which saved Eustacia from all possibility of compromising herself that evening at least . 
Whilst Wildeve had been preparing his moth signal another person had come behind him up to the gate . 
Damn him ! said Wildeve . 
He has been watching me again . 
Halfway down the hill the path ran near a knot of stunted hollies , which in the general darkness of the scene stood as the pupil in a black eye . 
When Wildeve reached this point a report startled his ear , and a few spent gunshots fell among the leaves around him . 
This attack was a more serious matter than the last , and it was some time before Wildeve recovered his equanimity . 
A new and most unpleasant system of menace had begun , and the intent appeared to be to do him grievous bodily harm . 
Had Wildeve known how thoroughly in earnest Venn had become he might have been still more alarmed . 
The doubtful legitimacy of such rough coercion did not disturb the mind of Venn . 
It troubles few such minds in such cases , and sometimes this is not to be regretted . 
From the impeachment of Strafford to Farmer Lynch's short way with the scamps of Virginia there have been many triumphs of justice which are mockeries of law . 
Almost the first thing that he saw on opening the door was the constable's truncheon hanging to a nail , as if to assure him that here were the means to his purpose . 
On inquiry , however , of the constable's wife he learnt that the constable was not at home . 
Wildeve said he would wait . 
The minutes ticked on , and the constable did not arrive . 
Wildeve cooled down from his state of high indignation to a restless dissatisfaction with himself , the scene , the constable's wife , and the whole set of circumstances . 
He arose and left the house . 
Thus far the reddleman had been tolerably successful in his rude contrivances for keeping down Wildeve's inclination to rove in the evening . 
He had nipped in the bud the possible meeting between Eustacia and her old lover this very night . 
But he had not anticipated that the tendency of his action would be to divert Wildeve's movement rather than to stop it . 
The gambling with the guineas had not conduced to make him a welcome guest to Clym but to call upon his wife's relative was natural , and he was determined to see Eustacia . 
It was necessary to choose some less untoward hour than ten o'clock at night . 
Since it is unsafe to go in the evening , he said , I'll go by day . 
She wondered at the lateness of his call , but had no objection to see him . 
Both she and my son disobeyed me in marrying therefore I have no interest in their households . 
Their troubles are of their own making . 
Mrs. Yeobright tried to speak severely but the account of her son's state had moved her more than she cared to show . 
Your visits would make Wildeve walk straighter than he is inclined to do , and might prevent unhappiness down the heath . 
What do you mean ? I saw something tonight out there which I didn't like at all . 
I wish your son's house and Mr. Wildeve's were a hundred miles apart instead of four or five . 
Then there WAS an understanding between him and Clym's wife when he made a fool of Thomasin ! We'll hope there's no understanding now . 
And our hope will probably be very vain . 
O Clym ! O Thomasin ! There's no harm done yet . 
In fact , I've persuaded Wildeve to mind his own business . 
How ? O , not by talking by a plan of mine called the silent system . 
I shall if you help me by calling and making friends with your son . 
You'll have a chance then of using your eyes . 
Well , since it has come to this , said Mrs. Yeobright sadly , I will own to you , reddleman , that I thought of going . 
I should be much happier if we were reconciled . 
The marriage is unalterable , my life may be cut short , and I should wish to die in peace . 
He is my only son and since sons are made of such stuff I am not sorry I have no other . 
As for Thomasin , I never expected much from her and she has not disappointed me . 
But I forgave her long ago and I forgive him now . 
At this very time of the reddleman's conversation with Mrs. Yeobright at Blooms End another conversation on the same subject was languidly proceeding at Alderworth . 
It was just after the mysterious knocking that he began the theme . 
Since I have been away today , Eustacia , I have considered that something must be done to heal up this ghastly breach between my dear mother and myself . 
What do you propose to do ? said Eustacia abstractedly , for she could not clear away from her the excitement caused by Wildeve's recent manoeuvre for an interview . 
You seem to take a very mild interest in what I propose , little or much , said Clym , with tolerable warmth . 
You mistake me , she answered , reviving at his reproach . 
What of ? Partly of that moth whose skeleton is getting burnt up in the wick of the candle , she said slowly . 
But you know I always take an interest in what you say . 
Then I think I must go and call upon her . 
But I must do something . 
It is wrong in me to allow this sort of thing to go on . 
What have you to blame yourself about ? She is getting old , and her life is lonely , and I am her only son . 
Thomasin is not her daughter and if she were that would not excuse me . 
But this is beside the point . 
You never distinctly told me what did pass between you . 
I could not do it then , nor can I now . 
Sometimes more bitterness is sown in five minutes than can be got rid of in a whole life and that may be the case here . 
She paused a few moments , and added , If you had never returned to your native place , Clym , what a blessing it would have been for you ! . 
It has altered the destinies of Three people . 
Five , Eustacia thought but she kept that in . 
In Mrs. Yeobright's garden large leaved plants of a tender kind flagged by ten o'clock in the morning rhubarb bent downward at eleven and even stiff cabbages were limp by noon . 
The sun had branded the whole heath with its mark , even the purple heath flowers having put on a brownness under the dry blazes of the few preceding days . 
But from the point at which she had arrived it was as easy to reach Clym's house as to get home again . 
So she went on , the air around her pulsating silently , and oppressing the earth with lassitude . 
She looked at the sky overhead , and saw that the sapphirine hue of the zenith in spring and early summer had been replaced by a metallic violet . 
All the shallower ponds had decreased to a vaporous mud amid which the maggoty shapes of innumerable obscure creatures could be indistinctly seen , heaving and wallowing with enjoyment . 
Mrs. Yeobright had never before been to her son's house , and its exact position was unknown to her . 
She tried one ascending path and another , and found that they led her astray . 
Retracing her steps , she came again to an open level , where she perceived at a distance a man at work . 
She went towards him and inquired the way . 
Well , if you follow him you can make no mistake . 
He's going to the same place , ma'am . 
She followed the figure indicated . 
He appeared of a russet hue , not more distinguishable from the scene around him than the green caterpillar from the leaf it feeds on . 
They were evidently intended for furze faggot bonds which he meant to collect on his return . 
The silent being who thus occupied himself seemed to be of no more account in life than an insect . 
Suddenly she was attracted to his individuality by observing peculiarities in his walk . 
His walk is exactly as my husband's used to be , she said and then the thought burst upon her that the furze cutter was her son . 
She was scarcely able to familiarize herself with this strange reality . 
Planning a dozen hasty schemes for at once preserving him and Eustacia from this mode of life , she throbbingly followed the way , and saw him enter his own door . 
On reaching this place Mrs. Yeobright felt distressingly agitated , weary , and unwell . 
Not a bough in the nine trees which composed the group but was splintered , lopped , and distorted by the fierce weather that there held them at its mercy whenever it prevailed . 
The place was called the Devil's Bellows , and it was only necessary to come there on a March or November night to discover the forcible reasons for that name . 
On the present heated afternoon , when no perceptible wind was blowing , the trees kept up a perpetual moan which one could hardly believe to be caused by the air . 
Here she sat for twenty minutes or more ere she could summon resolution to go down to the door , her courage being lowered to zero by her physical lassitude . 
To any other person than a mother it might have seemed a little humiliating that she , the elder of the two women , should be the first to make advances . 
But Mrs. Yeobright had well considered all that , and she only thought how best to make her visit appear to Eustacia not abject but wise . 
From her elevated position the exhausted woman could perceive the roof of the house below , and the garden and the whole enclosure of the little domicile . 
And now , at the moment of rising , she saw a second man approaching the gate . 
His manner was peculiar , hesitating , and not that of a person come on business or by invitation . 
After passing round and again reaching the gate he went in . 
She came down the hill to the gate , and looked into the hot garden . 
There lay the cat asleep on the bare gravel of the path , as if beds , rugs , and carpets were unendurable . 
The leaves of the hollyhocks hung like half closed umbrellas , the sap almost simmered in the stems , and foliage with a smooth surface glared like metallic mirrors . 
By the door lay Clym's furze hook and the last handful of faggot bonds she had seen him gather they had plainly been thrown down there as he entered the house . 
The spell that she had thrown over him in the moonlight dance made it impossible for a man having no strong puritanic force within him to keep away altogether . 
He merely calculated on meeting her and her husband in an ordinary manner , chatting a little while , and leaving again . 
Every outward sign was to be conventional but the one great fact would be there to satisfy him he would see her . 
He went accordingly and it happened that the time of his arrival coincided with that of Mrs. Yeobright's pause on the hill near the house . 
When he had looked round the premises in the manner she had noticed he went and knocked at the door . 
There was a few minutes' interval , and then the key turned in the lock , the door opened , and Eustacia herself confronted him . 
I hope you reached home safely ? said Wildeve . 
O yes , she carelessly returned . 
And were you not tired the next day ? I feared you might be . 
You need not speak low nobody will over hear us . 
My small servant is gone on an errand to the village . 
Then Clym is not at home ? Yes , he is . 
O ! I thought that perhaps you had locked the door because you were alone and were afraid of tramps . 
No here is my husband . 
They had been standing in the entry . 
Closing the front door and turning the key , as before , she threw open the door of the adjoining room and asked him to walk in . 
Wildeve entered , the room appearing to be empty but as soon as he had advanced a few steps he started . 
On the hearthrug lay Clym asleep . 
Beside him were the leggings , thick boots , leather gloves , and sleeve waistcoat in which he worked . 
You may go in you will not disturb him , she said , following behind . 
My reason for fastening the door is that he may not be intruded upon by any chance comer while lying here , if I should be in the garden or upstairs . 
Why is he sleeping there ? said Wildeve in low tones . 
He went out at half past four this morning , and has been working ever since . 
He cuts furze because it is the only thing he can do that does not put any strain upon his poor eyes . 
Why does he go out at all ! Wildeve whispered . 
Because he hates to be idle though what he earns doesn't add much to our exchequer . 
However , he says that when people are living upon their capital they must keep down current expenses by turning a penny where they can . 
The fates have not been kind to you , Eustacia Yeobright . 
I have nothing to thank them for . 
Nor has he except for their one great gift to him . 
What's that ? Wildeve looked her in the eyes . 
Eustacia blushed for the first time that day . 
Well , I am a questionable gift , she said quietly . 
I thought you meant the gift of content which he has , and I have not . 
I can understand content in such a case though how the outward situation can attract him puzzles me . 
That's because you don't know him . 
He's an enthusiast about ideas , and careless about outward things . 
He often reminds me of the Apostle Paul . 
I am glad to hear that he's so grand in character as that . 
Yes but the worst of it is that though Paul was excellent as a man in the Bible he would hardly have done in real life . 
Their voices had instinctively dropped lower , though at first they had taken no particular care to avoid awakening Clym . 
Well , if that means that your marriage is a misfortune to you , you know who is to blame , said Wildeve . 
The marriage is no misfortune in itself , she retorted with some little petulance . 
It is simply the accident which has happened since that has been the cause of my ruin . 
You rightly belonged to me , you know and I had no idea of losing you . 
No , it was not my fault ! Two could not belong to you and remember that , before I was aware , you turned aside to another woman . 
It was cruel levity in you to do that . 
I never dreamt of playing such a game on my side till you began it on yours . 
I meant nothing by it , replied Wildeve . 
It was a mere interlude . 
Men are given to the trick of having a passing fancy for somebody else in the midst of a permanent love , which reasserts itself afterwards just as before . 
Turning and looking again at the unconscious form of Clym , he murmured , I am afraid that you don't value your prize , Clym . 
He ought to be happier than I in one thing at least . 
He is not ungrateful for winning her , whispered Eustacia , and in that respect he is a good man . 
Many women would go far for such a husband . 
Yet I thought I saw the way to it in my Clym . 
And you only married him on that account ? There you mistake me . 
I married him because I loved him , but I won't say that I didn't love him partly because I thought I saw a promise of that life in him . 
You have dropped into your old mournful key . 
But I am not going to be depressed , she cried perversely . 
I began a new system by going to that dance , and I mean to stick to it . 
Clym can sing merrily why should not I ? Wildeve looked thoughtfully at her . 
It is easier to say you will sing than to do it though if I could I would encourage you in your attempt . 
But as life means nothing to me , without one thing which is now impossible , you will forgive me for not being able to encourage you . 
Damon , what is the matter with you , that you speak like that ? she asked , raising her deep shady eyes to his . 
That's a thing I shall never tell plainly and perhaps if I try to tell you in riddles you will not care to guess them . 
Eustacia remained silent for a minute , and she said , We are in a strange relationship today . 
You mince matters to an uncommon nicety . 
You mean , Damon , that you still love me . 
But we have said too much about this . 
God , how I envy him that sweet sleep ! said Wildeve . 
I have not slept like that since I was a boy years and years ago . 
While they thus watched him a click at the gate was audible , and a knock came to the door . 
Eustacia went to a window and looked out . 
First she became crimson , and then the red subsided till it even partially left her lips . 
Shall I go away ? said Wildeve , standing up . 
Who is it ? Mrs. Yeobright . 
O , what she said to me that day ! I cannot understand this visit what does she mean ? And she suspects that past time of ours . 
I am in your hands . 
If you think she had better not see me here I'll go into the next room . 
Wildeve at once withdrew but before he had been half a minute in the adjoining apartment Eustacia came after him . 
No , she said , we won't have any of this . 
Her knocking will , in all likelihood , awaken him , continued Eustacia , and then he will let her in himself . 
They could hear Clym moving in the other room , as if disturbed by the knocking , and he uttered the word Mother . 
Yes he is awake he will go to the door , she said , with a breath of relief . 
I have a bad name with her , and you must not be seen . 
Thus I am obliged to act by stealth , not because I do ill , but because others are pleased to say so . 
By this time she had taken him to the back door , which was open , disclosing a path leading down the garden . 
Now , one word , Damon , she remarked as he stepped forth . 
This is your first visit here let it be your last . 
We have been hot lovers in our time , but it won't do now . 
Good bye , said Wildeve . 
I have had all I came for , and I am satisfied . 
What was it ? A sight of you . 
Upon my eternal honour I came for no more . 
When he had quite gone she slowly turned , and directed her attention to the interior of the house . 
But it was possible that her presence might not be desired by Clym and his mother at this moment of their first meeting , or that it would be superfluous . 
At all events , she was in no hurry to meet Mrs. Yeobright . 
She resolved to wait till Clym came to look for her , and glided back into the garden . 
But hearing none she opened the door and went in . 
To her astonishment Clym lay precisely as Wildeve and herself had left him , his sleep apparently unbroken . 
He had been disturbed and made to dream and murmur by the knocking , but he had not awakened . 
Eustacia hastened to the door , and in spite of her reluctance to open it to a woman who had spoken of her so bitterly , she unfastened it and looked out . 
Nobody was to be seen . 
Clym's mother was at this time following a path which lay hidden from Eustacia by a shoulder of the hill . 
Her eyes were fixed on the ground within her two sights were graven that of Clym's hook and brambles at the door , and that of a woman's face at a window . 
Mrs. Yeobright spoke to him as one in a mesmeric sleep . 
'Tis a long way home , my child , and we shall not get there till evening . 
I shall , said her small companion . 
I am going to play marnels afore supper , and we go to supper at six o'clock , because Father comes home . 
Does your father come home at six too ? No , he never comes nor my son either , nor anybody . 
What have made you so down ? Have you seen a ooser ? I have seen what's worse a woman's face looking at me through a windowpane . 
Is that a bad sight ? Yes . 
It is always a bad sight to see a woman looking out at a weary wayfarer and not letting her in . 
Once when I went to Throope Great Pond to catch effets I seed myself looking up at myself , and I was frightened and jumped back like anything . 
If they had only shown signs of meeting my advances halfway how well it might have been done ! But there is no chance . 
Shut out ! She must have set him against me . 
Can there be beautiful bodies without hearts inside ? I think so . 
O no , not at all , she said , returning to the boy's prattle . 
Most people who grow up and have children talk as I do . 
When you grow up your mother will talk as I do too . 
I hope she won't because 'tis very bad to talk nonsense . 
Yes , child it is nonsense , I suppose . 
Are you not nearly spent with the heat ? Yes . 
But not so much as you be . 
How do you know ? Your face is white and wet , and your head is hanging down like . 
Ah , I am exhausted from inside . 
Why do you , every time you take a step , go like this ? The child in speaking gave to his motion the jerk and limp of an invalid . 
Because I have a burden which is more than I can bear . 
When she had seated herself he looked long in her face and said , How funny you draw your breath like a lamb when you drive him till he's nearly done for . 
Do you always draw your breath like that ? Not always . 
Her voice was now so low as to be scarcely above a whisper . 
You will go to sleep there , I suppose , won't you ? You have shut your eyes already . 
No. I shall not sleep much till another day , and then I hope to have a long , long one very long . 
Is the water clear ? Yes , middling except where the heath croppers walk into it . 
Then , take this , and go as fast as you can , and dip me up the clearest you can find . 
The boy started on his errand , and soon came back with the water , such as it was . 
Mrs. Yeobright attempted to drink , but it was so warm as to give her nausea , and she threw it away . 
Afterwards she still remained sitting , with her eyes closed . 
Will you soon start again ? I don't know . 
I wish I might go on by myself , he resumed , fearing , apparently , that he was to be pressed into some unpleasant service . 
Do you want me any more , please ? Mrs. Yeobright made no reply . 
What shall I tell Mother ? the boy continued . 
Tell her you have seen a broken hearted woman cast off by her son . 
Before quite leaving her he threw upon her face a wistful glance , as if he had misgivings on the generosity of forsaking her thus . 
He gazed into her face in a vague , wondering manner , like that of one examining some strange old manuscript the key to whose characters is undiscoverable . 
He lowered his eyes and went on without another word . 
Before he had gone half a mile he had forgotten all about her , except that she was a woman who had sat down to rest . 
Mrs. Yeobright's exertions , physical and emotional , had well nigh prostrated her but she continued to creep along in short stages with long breaks between . 
The sun had now got far to the west of south and stood directly in her face , like some merciless incendiary , brand in hand , waiting to consume her . 
In front of her a colony of ants had established a thoroughfare across the way , where they toiled a never ending and heavy laden throng . 
To look down upon them was like observing a city street from the top of a tower . 
She remembered that this bustle of ants had been in progress for years at the same spot doubtless those of the old times were the ancestors of these which walked there now . 
She leant back to obtain more thorough rest , and the soft eastern portion of the sky was as great a relief to her eyes as the thyme was to her head . 
While she looked a heron arose on that side of the sky and flew on with his face towards the sun . 
But , being a mother , it was inevitable that she should soon cease to ruminate upon her own condition . 
The Tragic Meeting of Two Old Friends He in the meantime had aroused himself from sleep , sat up , and looked around . 
Eustacia was sitting in a chair hard by him , and though she held a book in her hand she had not looked into it for some time . 
Well , indeed ! said Clym , brushing his eyes with his hands . 
How soundly I have slept ! I have had such a tremendous dream , too one I shall never forget . 
I thought you had been dreaming , said she . 
It was about my mother . 
I dreamt that I took you to her house to make up differences , and when we got there we couldn't get in , though she kept on crying to us for help . 
However , dreams are dreams . 
What o'clock is it , Eustacia ? Half past two . 
So late , is it ? I didn't mean to stay so long . 
By the time I have had something to eat it will be after three . 
Ann is not come back from the village , and I thought I would let you sleep on till she returned . 
Clym went to the window and looked out . 
Presently he said , musingly , Week after week passes , and yet Mother does not come . 
I thought I should have heard something from her long before this . 
Misgiving , regret , fear , resolution , ran their swift course of expression in Eustacia's dark eyes . 
She was face to face with a monstrous difficulty , and she resolved to get free of it by postponement . 
I must certainly go to Blooms End soon , he continued , and I think I had better go alone . 
I am quite sure that if I make a little advance Mother will be willing to forget all . 
It will be rather late before I can get home , as I shall not be able to do the distance either way in less than an hour and a half . 
But you will not mind for one evening , dear ? What are you thinking of to make you look so abstracted ? I cannot tell you , she said heavily . 
I wish we didn't live here , Clym . 
The world seems all wrong in this place . 
Well if we make it so . 
I wonder if Thomasin has been to Blooms End lately . 
But probably not , as she is , I believe , expecting to be confined in a month or so . 
I wish I had thought of that before . 
Poor Mother must indeed be very lonely . 
I don't like you going tonight . 
Why not tonight ? Something may be said which will terribly injure me . 
My mother is not vindictive , said Clym , his colour faintly rising . 
But I wish you would not go , Eustacia repeated in a low tone . 
If you agree not to go tonight I promise to go by myself to her house tomorrow , and make it up with her , and wait till you fetch me . 
Well , it is very odd that just when I had decided to go myself you should want to do what I proposed long ago . 
If I wait for you to go tomorrow another day will be lost and I know I shall be unable to rest another night without having been . 
I want to get this settled , and will . 
You must visit her afterwards it will be all the same . 
I could even go with you now ? You could scarcely walk there and back without a longer rest than I shall take . 
No , not tonight , Eustacia . 
Clym then went into the garden and a thoughtful languor stole over Eustacia for the remainder of the afternoon , which her husband attributed to the heat of the weather . 
In the evening he set out on the journey . 
Yeobright walked on amid this quiet scene with a hope that all would soon be well . 
Three miles on he came to a spot where a soft perfume was wafted across his path , and he stood still for a moment to inhale the familiar scent . 
It was the place at which , four hours earlier , his mother had sat down exhausted on the knoll covered with shepherd's thyme . 
While he stood a sound between a breathing and a moan suddenly reached his ears . 
He looked to where the sound came from but nothing appeared there save the verge of the hillock stretching against the sky in an unbroken line . 
He moved a few steps in that direction , and now he perceived a recumbent figure almost close to his feet . 
Among the different possibilities as to the person's individuality there did not for a moment occur to Yeobright that it might be one of his own family . 
But he was not absolutely certain that the woman was his mother till he stooped and beheld her face , pallid , and with closed eyes . 
His breath went , as it were , out of his body and the cry of anguish which would have escaped him died upon his lips . 
Then he awoke to activity and bending yet lower he found that she still breathed , and that her breath though feeble was regular , except when disturbed by an occasional gasp . 
O , what is it ! Mother , are you very ill you are not dying ? he cried , pressing his lips to her face . 
He was able bodied , and his mother was thin . 
While he was yet nearly a mile from the house his mother exhibited signs of restlessness under the constraint of being borne along , as if his arms were irksome to her . 
He lowered her upon his knees and looked around . 
Moreover , fifty yards off stood a hut , built of clods and covered with thin turves , but now entirely disused . 
The simple outline of the lonely shed was visible , and thither he determined to direct his steps . 
As soon as he arrived he laid her down carefully by the entrance , and then ran and cut with his pocketknife an armful of the dryest fern . 
Spreading this within the shed , which was entirely open on one side , he placed his mother thereon then he ran with all his might towards the dwelling of Fairway . 
Nearly a quarter of an hour had passed , disturbed only by the broken breathing of the sufferer , when moving figures began to animate the line between heath and sky . 
In a few moments Clym arrived with Fairway , Humphrey , and Susan Nunsuch Olly Dowden , who had chanced to be at Fairway's , Christian and Grandfer Cantle following helter skelter behind . 
They had brought a lantern and matches , water , a pillow , and a few other articles which had occurred to their minds in the hurry of the moment . 
Olly Dowden at length understood her meaning , and examined the foot indicated . 
It was swollen and red . 
I know what it is , cried Sam . 
She has been stung by an adder ! Yes , said Clym instantly . 
I remember when I was a child seeing just such a bite . 
O , my poor mother ! It was my father who was bit , said Sam . 
And there's only one way to cure it . 
You must rub the place with the fat of other adders , and the only way to get that is by frying them . 
That's what they did for him . 
'Tis an old remedy , said Clym distrustfully , and I have doubts about it . 
But we can do nothing else till the doctor comes . 
'Tis a sure cure , said Olly Dowden , with emphasis . 
I've used it when I used to go out nursing . 
Then we must pray for daylight , to catch them , said Clym gloomily . 
I will see what I can do , said Sam . 
Clym had by this time lit a small fire , and despatched Susan Nunsuch for a frying pan . 
Before she had returned Sam came in with three adders , one briskly coiling and uncoiling in the cleft of the stick , and the other two hanging dead across it . 
I have only been able to get one alive and fresh as he ought to be , said Sam . 
These limp ones are two I killed today at work but as they don't die till the sun goes down they can't be very stale meat . 
The live adder regarded the assembled group with a sinister look in its small black eye , and the beautiful brown and jet pattern on its back seemed to intensify with indignation . 
Mrs. Yeobright saw the creature , and the creature saw her she quivered throughout , and averted her eyes . 
Look at that , murmured Christian Cantle . 
'Tis to be hoped he can't ill wish us ! There's folks in heath who've been overlooked already . 
I will never kill another adder as long as I live . 
Well , 'tis right to be afeard of things , if folks can't help it , said Grandfer Cantle . 
'Twould have saved me many a brave danger in my time . 
I fancy I heard something outside the shed , said Christian . 
Well , there's calamities where we least expect it , whether or no . 
Now , if I had been stung by ten adders I should hardly have lost a day's work for't , said Grandfer Cantle . 
Such is my spirit when I am on my mettle . 
But perhaps 'tis natural in a man trained for war . 
Yes , I've gone through a good deal but nothing ever came amiss to me after I joined the Locals in four . 
He shook his head and smiled at a mental picture of himself in uniform . 
D'ye think so , Timothy ? said Grandfer Cantle , coming forward to Fairway's side with sudden depression in his face . 
Then a man may feel for years that he is good solid company , and be wrong about himself after all ? Never mind that question , Grandfer . 
Stir your stumps and get some more sticks . 
'Tis very nonsense of an old man to prattle so when life and death's in mangling . 
Yes , yes , said Grandfer Cantle , with melancholy conviction . 
Susan now arrived with the frying pan , when the live adder was killed and the heads of the three taken off . 
The remainders , being cut into lengths and split open , were tossed into the pan , which began hissing and crackling over the fire . 
Soon a rill of clear oil trickled from the carcases , whereupon Clym dipped the corner of his handkerchief into the liquid and anointed the wound . 
Eustacia Hears of Good Fortune , and Beholds Evil In the meantime Eustacia , left alone in her cottage at Alderworth , had become considerably depressed by the posture of affairs . 
The two visits had stirred her into restlessness . 
When she reached the garden gate she heard wheels approaching , and looking round beheld her grandfather coming up in his car . 
I can't stay a minute , thank ye , he answered to her greeting . 
I am driving to East Egdon but I came round here just to tell you the news . 
Perhaps you have heard about Mr. Wildeve's fortune ? No , said Eustacia blankly . 
How long has he known of this ? she asked . 
Well , it was known to him this morning early , for I knew it at ten o'clock , when Charley came back . 
Now , he is what I call a lucky man . 
What a fool you were , Eustacia ! In what way ? she said , lifting her eyes in apparent calmness . 
Why , in not sticking to him when you had him . 
And how is your poor purblind husband ? continued the old man . 
Not a bad fellow either , as far as he goes . 
It is a good thing for his cousin what d'ye call her ? By George , you ought to have been in that galley , my girl ! Now I must drive on . 
Do you want any assistance ? What's mine is yours , you know . 
Thank you , Grandfather , we are not in want at present , she said coldly . 
Clym cuts furze , but he does it mostly as a useful pastime , because he can do nothing else . 
He is paid for his pastime , isn't he ? Three shillings a hundred , I heard . 
Clym has money , she said , colouring , but he likes to earn a little . 
And the captain drove on . 
When her grandfather was gone Eustacia went on her way mechanically but her thoughts were no longer concerning her mother in law and Clym . 
Wildeve , notwithstanding his complaints against his fate , had been seized upon by destiny and placed in the sunshine once more . 
Eleven thousand pounds ! From every Egdon point of view he was a rich man . 
Though she was no lover of money she loved what money could bring and the new accessories she imagined around him clothed Wildeve with a great deal of interest . 
She recollected now how quietly well dressed he had been that morning he had probably put on his newest suit , regardless of damage by briars and thorns . 
And then she thought of his manner towards herself . 
O I see it , I see it , she said . 
Wildeve's silence that day on what had happened to him was just the kind of behaviour calculated to make an impression on such a woman . 
Those delicate touches of good taste were , in fact , one of the strong points in his demeanour towards the other sex . 
She was disturbed in her reverie by a voice behind , and turning her head beheld the old lover and fortunate inheritor of wealth immediately beside her . 
She remained sitting , though the fluctuation in her look might have told any man who knew her so well as Wildeve that she was thinking of him . 
How did you come here ? she said in her clear low tone . 
I thought you were at home . 
I went on to the village after leaving your garden and now I have come back again that's all . 
Which way are you walking , may I ask ? She waved her hand in the direction of Blooms End . 
I am going to meet my husband . 
I think I may possibly have got into trouble whilst you were with me today . 
How could that be ? By not letting in Mrs. Yeobright . 
I hope that visit of mine did you no harm . 
It was not your fault , she said quietly . 
On what ? O yes on my eleven thousand pounds , you mean . 
Well , since I didn't get something else , I must be content with getting that . 
You seem very indifferent about it . 
Why didn't you tell me today when you came ? she said in the tone of a neglected person . 
I heard of it quite by accident . 
I did mean to tell you , said Wildeve . 
But I well , I will speak frankly I did not like to mention it when I saw , Eustacia , that your star was not high . 
I shall permanently invest nine thousand pounds , keep one thousand as ready money , and with the remaining thousand travel for a year or so . 
Travel ? What a bright idea ! Where will you go to ? From here to Paris , where I shall pass the winter and spring . 
Then I shall go to Italy , Greece , Egypt , and Palestine , before the hot weather comes on . 
In the summer I shall go to America and then , by a plan not yet settled , I shall go to Australia and round to India . 
By that time I shall have begun to have had enough of it . 
Then I shall probably come back to Paris again , and there I shall stay as long as I can afford to . 
Back to Paris again , she murmured in a voice that was nearly a sigh . 
She had never once told Wildeve of the Parisian desires which Clym's description had sown in her yet here was he involuntarily in a position to gratify them . 
You think a good deal of Paris ? she added . 
In my opinion it is the central beauty spot of the world . 
And in mine ! And Thomasin will go with you ? Yes , if she cares to . 
She may prefer to stay at home . 
So you will be going about , and I shall be staying here ! I suppose you will . 
But we know whose fault that is . 
I am not blaming you , she said quickly . 
Oh , I thought you were . 
If ever you SHOULD be inclined to blame me , think of a certain evening by Rainbarrow , when you promised to meet me and did not . 
You sent me a letter and my heart ached to read that as I hope yours never will . 
That was one point of divergence . 
I then did something in haste . 
But she is a good woman , and I will say no more . 
I know that the blame was on my side that time , said Eustacia . 
But it had not always been so . 
However , it is my misfortune to be too sudden in feeling . 
O , Damon , don't reproach me any more I can't bear that . 
I will go with you as far as the hill on which we can see Blooms End , as it is getting late for you to be alone . 
I am not obliged to be out at all . 
I think I would rather you did not accompany me further . 
This sort of thing would have an odd look if known . 
Very well , I will leave you . 
He took her hand unexpectedly , and kissed it for the first time since her marriage . 
What light is that on the hill ? he added , as it were to hide the caress . 
She looked , and saw a flickering firelight proceeding from the open side of a hovel a little way before them . 
The hovel , which she had hitherto always found empty , seemed to be inhabited now . 
Eustacia did not recognize Mrs. Yeobright in the reclining figure , nor Clym as one of the standers by till she came close . 
Then she quickly pressed her hand up on Wildeve's arm and signified to him to come back from the open side of the shed into the shadow . 
It is my husband and his mother , she whispered in an agitated voice . 
What can it mean ? Will you step forward and tell me ? Wildeve left her side and went to the back wall of the hut . 
Presently Eustacia perceived that he was beckoning to her , and she advanced and joined him . 
It is a serious case , said Wildeve . 
From their position they could hear what was proceeding inside . 
I cannot think where she could have been going , said Clym to someone . 
She had evidently walked a long way , but even when she was able to speak just now she would not tell me where . 
She has suffered somewhat from the bite of the adder but it is exhaustion which has overpowered her . 
My impression is that her walk must have been exceptionally long . 
I used to tell her not to overwalk herself this weather , said Clym , with distress . 
It is mentioned as an infallible ointment by Hoffman , Mead , and I think the Abbe Fontana . 
Undoubtedly it was as good a thing as you could do though I question if some other oils would not have been equally efficacious . 
Oh , what is it ? whispered Eustacia . 
'Twas Thomasin who spoke , said Wildeve . 
Then they have fetched her . 
I wonder if I had better go in yet it might do harm . 
Her heart was previously affected , and physical exhaustion has dealt the finishing blow . 
Then there was a weeping of women , then waiting , then hushed exclamations , then a strange gasping sound , then a painful stillness . 
It is all over , said the doctor . 
Further back in the hut the cotters whispered , Mrs. Yeobright is dead . 
Almost at the same moment the two watchers observed the form of a small old fashioned child entering at the open side of the shed . 
Susan Nunsuch , whose boy it was , went forward to the opening and silently beckoned to him to go back . 
I've got something to tell 'ee , Mother , he cried in a shrill tone . 
There is evil in store for me . 
Was she not admitted to your house after all ? Wildeve inquired . 
No , and that's where it all lies ! Oh , what shall I do ! I shall not intrude upon them I shall go straight home . 
Damon , good bye ! I cannot speak to you any more now . 
They parted company and when Eustacia had reached the next hill she looked back . 
A melancholy procession was wending its way by the light of the lantern from the hut towards Blooms End . 
Wildeve was nowhere to be seen . 
She reclined over the garden gate as if to refresh herself awhile . 
The pale lunar touches which make beauties of hags lent divinity to this face , already beautiful . 
Is he light headed , ma'am ? No. He is quite sensible now . 
Do he rave about his mother just the same , poor fellow ? continued Humphrey . 
Just as much , though not quite so wildly , she said in a low voice . 
It was very unfortunate , ma'am , that the boy Johnny should ever ha' told him his mother's dying words , about her being broken hearted and cast off by her son . 
'Twas enough to upset any man alive . 
Eustacia turned , entered the house , and ascended to the front bedroom , where a shaded light was burning . 
Is it you , Eustacia ? he said as she sat down . 
I have been down to the gate . 
The moon is shining beautifully , and there is not a leaf stirring . 
Shining , is it ? What's the moon to a man like me ? Let it shine let anything be , so that I never see another day ! . 
Eustacia , I don't know where to look my thoughts go through me like swords . 
Yes , it was so it is useless to excuse me ! My conduct to her was too hideous I made no advances and she could not bring herself to forgive me . 
But I never went near her house , so she never came near mine , and didn't know how welcome she would have been that's what troubles me . 
She did not know I was going to her house that very night , for she was too insensible to understand me . 
If she had only come to see me ! I longed that she would . 
But it was not to be . 
There escaped from Eustacia one of those shivering sighs which used to shake her like a pestilent blast . 
She had not yet told . 
But Yeobright was too deeply absorbed in the ramblings incidental to his remorseful state to notice her . 
During his illness he had been continually talking thus . 
Despair had been added to his original grief by the unfortunate disclosure of the boy who had received the last words of Mrs. Yeobright words too bitterly uttered in an hour of misapprehension . 
Then his distress had overwhelmed him , and he longed for death as a field labourer longs for the shade . 
It was the pitiful sight of a man standing in the very focus of sorrow . 
She was always ready to forgive if asked to do so but I seemed to her to be as an obstinate child , and that made her unyielding . 
Yet not unyielding she was proud and reserved , no more . 
Yes , I can understand why she held out against me so long . 
She was waiting for me . 
But that I cannot do . 
You give yourself up too much to this wearying despair , said Eustacia . 
Other men's mothers have died . 
That doesn't make the loss of mine less . 
Yet it is less the loss than the circumstances of the loss . 
I sinned against her , and on that account there is no light for me . 
She sinned against you , I think . 
No , she did not . 
I committed the guilt and may the whole burden be upon my head ! I think you might consider twice before you say that , Eustacia replied . 
Single men have , no doubt , a right to curse themselves as much as they please but men with wives involve two in the doom they pray down . 
I am in too sorry a state to understand what you are refining on , said the wretched man . 
Day and night shout at me , 'You have helped to kill her . 
But in loathing myself I may , I own , be unjust to you , my poor wife . 
Forgive me for it , Eustacia , for I scarcely know what I do . 
Eustacia was always anxious to avoid the sight of her husband in such a state as this , which had become as dreadful to her as the trial scene was to Judas Iscariot . 
It brought before her eyes the spectre of a worn out woman knocking at a door which she would not open and she shrank from contemplating it . 
Eustacia had not been long indoors after her look at the moonlight when a soft footstep came up to the house , and Thomasin was announced by the woman downstairs . 
Ah , Thomasin ! Thank you for coming tonight , said Clym when she entered the room . 
Here am I , you see . 
Such a wretched spectacle am I , that I shrink from being seen by a single friend , and almost from you . 
You must not shrink from me , dear Clym , said Thomasin earnestly , in that sweet voice of hers which came to a sufferer like fresh air into a Black Hole . 
Nothing in you can ever shock me or drive me away . 
I have been here before , but you don't remember it . 
Yes , I do I am not delirious , Thomasin , nor have I been so at all . 
Don't you believe that if they say so . 
I am only in great misery at what I have done , and that , with the weakness , makes me seem mad . 
But it has not upset my reason . 
Do you think I should remember all about my mother's death if I were out of my mind ? No such good luck . 
If there is any justice in God let Him kill me now . 
He has nearly blinded me , but that is not enough . 
Clym went on without heeding his cousin . 
But I am not worth receiving further proof even of Heaven's reprobation . 
I think I can assure you that she knew better at last , said Thomasin . 
The pallid Eustacia said nothing . 
Why didn't she come to my house ? I would have taken her in and showed her how I loved her in spite of all . 
But she never came and I didn't go to her , and she died on the heath like an animal kicked out , nobody to help her till it was too late . 
And this poor woman my mother ! No wonder she said to the child , 'You have seen a broken hearted woman . 
How long was I what they called out of my senses ? A week , I think . 
And then I became calm . 
Yes , for four days . 
And now I have left off being calm . 
But try to be quiet please do , and you will soon be strong . 
If you could remove that impression from your mind Yes , yes , he said impatiently . 
But I don't want to get strong . 
What's the use of my getting well ? It would be better for me if I die , and it would certainly be better for Eustacia . 
Is Eustacia there ? Yes . 
It would be better for you , Eustacia , if I were to die ? Don't press such a question , dear Clym . 
Well , it really is but a shadowy supposition for unfortunately I am going to live . 
I feel myself getting better . 
We cannot get off till then . 
I think it will be a month or more . 
Depend upon it , Aunt thought kindly of you . 
I know that , if she had lived , you would have been reconciled with her . 
But she didn't come to see me , though I asked her , before I married , if she would come . 
Had she come , or had I gone there , she would never have died saying , 'I am a broken hearted woman , cast off by my son . 
My door has always been open to her a welcome here has always awaited her . 
But that she never came to see . 
You had better not talk any more now , Clym , said Eustacia faintly from the other part of the room , for the scene was growing intolerable to her . 
Let me talk to you instead for the little time I shall be here , Thomasin said soothingly . 
Consider what a one sided way you have of looking at the matter , Clym . 
When she said that to the little boy you had not found her and taken her into your arms and it might have been uttered in a moment of bitterness . 
It was rather like Aunt to say things in haste . 
She sometimes used to speak so to me . 
Though she did not come I am convinced that she thought of coming to see you . 
How did you get here tonight , Thomasin ? said Eustacia . 
Damon set me down at the end of the lane . 
He has driven into East Egdon on business , and he will come and pick me up by and by . 
Accordingly they soon after heard the noise of wheels . 
Wildeve had come , and was waiting outside with his horse and gig . 
Send out and tell him I will be down in two minutes , said Thomasin . 
I will run down myself , said Eustacia . 
Wildeve had alighted , and was standing before the horse's head when Eustacia opened the door . 
He did not turn for a moment , thinking the comer Thomasin . 
Then he looked , startled ever so little , and said one word Well ? I have not yet told him , she replied in a whisper . 
Then don't do so till he is well it will be fatal . 
O Damon , she said , bursting into tears , I I can't tell you how unhappy I am ! I can hardly bear this . 
I can tell nobody of my trouble nobody knows of it but you . 
Poor girl ! said Wildeve , visibly affected at her distress , and at last led on so far as to take her hand . 
It is hard , when you have done nothing to deserve it , that you should have got involved in such a web as this . 
You were not made for these sad scenes . 
I am to blame most . 
I don't know what to do . 
Should I tell him or should I not tell him ? I always am asking myself that . 
O , I want to tell him and yet I am afraid . 
If he find it out he must surely kill me , for nothing else will be in proportion to his feelings now . 
'Beware the fury of a patient man' sounds day by day in my ears as I watch him . 
Well , wait till he is better , and trust to chance . 
And when you tell , you must only tell part for his own sake . 
Which part should I keep back ? Wildeve paused . 
That I was in the house at the time , he said in a low tone . 
Yes it must be concealed , seeing what has been whispered . 
How much easier are hasty actions than speeches that will excuse them ! If he were only to die Wildeve murmured . 
Do not think of it ! I would not buy hope of immunity by so cowardly a desire even if I hated him . 
Now I am going up to him again . 
Thomasin bade me tell you she would be down in a few minutes . 
She returned , and Thomasin soon appeared . 
When she was seated in the gig with her husband , and the horse was turning to go off , Wildeve lifted his eyes to the bedroom windows . 
Looking from one of them he could discern a pale , tragic face watching him drive away . 
A Lurid Light Breaks in upon a Darkened Understanding Clym's grief became mitigated by wearing itself out . 
His strength returned , and a month after the visit of Thomasin he might have been seen walking about the garden . 
Endurance and despair , equanimity and gloom , the tints of health and the pallor of death , mingled weirdly in his face . 
When his mind had been weaker his heart had led him to speak out but reason having now somewhat recovered itself he sank into taciturnity . 
Christian , isn't it ? said Clym . 
I am glad you have found me out . 
I shall soon want you to go to Blooms End and assist me in putting the house in order . 
I suppose it is all locked up as I left it ? Yes , Mister Clym . 
Have you dug up the potatoes and other roots ? Yes , without a drop o' rain , thank God . 
But I was coming to tell 'ee of something else which is quite different from what we have lately had in the family . 
And she is getting on well , you say ? Yes , sir . 
Only Mr. Wildeve is twanky because 'tisn't a boy that's what they say in the kitchen , but I was not supposed to notice that . 
Christian , now listen to me . 
Yes , sure , Mr. Yeobright . 
Did you see my mother the day before she died ? No , I did not . 
But I zeed her the morning of the same day she died . 
That's nearer still to my meaning , he said . 
Yes , I know 'twas the same day for she said , 'I be going to see him , Christian so I shall not want any vegetables brought in for dinner . 
See whom ? See you . 
She was going to your house , you understand . 
Yeobright regarded Christian with intense surprise . 
Why did you never mention this ? he said . 
Are you sure it was my house she was coming to ? O yes . 
I didn't mention it because I've never zeed you lately . 
And as she didn't get there it was all nought , and nothing to tell . 
She didn't say it to me , though I think she did to one here and there . 
One night last summer he glared at me like Famine and Sword , and it made me feel so low that I didn't comb out my few hairs for two days . 
Pooh ! Who's the man ? Diggory , the reddleman . 
He called upon her and sat with her the evening before she set out to see you . 
I hadn't gone home from work when he came up to the gate . 
I must see Venn I wish I had known it before , said Clym anxiously . 
I wonder why he has not come to tell me ? He went out of Egdon Heath the next day , so would not be likely to know you wanted him . 
Christian , said Clym , you must go and find Venn . 
I am otherwise engaged , or I would go myself . 
Find him at once , and tell him I want to speak to him . 
Search the heath when you will , so that you bring him soon . 
Bring him tomorrow , if you can . 
The morrow came , but no Venn . 
In the evening Christian arrived , looking very weary . 
He had been searching all day , and had heard nothing of the reddleman . 
Inquire as much as you can tomorrow without neglecting your work , said Yeobright . 
Don't come again till you have found him . 
The next day Yeobright set out for the old house at Blooms End , which , with the garden , was now his own . 
He journeyed onward , not quickly or decisively , but in the slow walk of one who has been awakened from a stupefying sleep . 
It was early afternoon when he reached the valley . 
The garden gate was locked and the shutters were closed , just as he himself had left them on the evening after the funeral . 
While thus engaged he heard footsteps on the gravel without , and somebody knocked at the door . 
Yeobright opened it , and Venn was standing before him . 
Good morning , said the reddleman . 
Is Mrs. Yeobright at home ? Yeobright looked upon the ground . 
Then you have not seen Christian or any of the Egdon folks ? he said . 
No. I have only just returned after a long stay away . 
I called here the day before I left . 
And you have heard nothing ? Nothing . 
Dead ! said Venn mechanically . 
Her home now is where I shouldn't mind having mine . 
Venn regarded him , and then said , If I didn't see your face I could never believe your words . 
Have you been ill ? I had an illness . 
Well , the change ! When I parted from her a month ago everything seemed to say that she was going to begin a new life . 
And what seemed came true . 
You say right , no doubt . 
Trouble has taught you a deeper vein of talk than mine . 
All I meant was regarding her life here . 
She has died too soon . 
Perhaps through my living too long . 
I have had a bitter experience on that score this last month , Diggory . 
But come in I have been wanting to see you . 
He conducted the reddleman into the large room where the dancing had taken place the previous Christmas , and they sat down in the settle together . 
There's the cold fireplace , you see , said Clym . 
When that half burnt log and those cinders were alight she was alive ! Little has been changed here yet . 
My life creeps like a snail . 
How came she to die ? said Venn . 
Yeobright gave him some particulars of her illness and death , and continued After this no kind of pain will ever seem more than an indisposition to me . 
I began saying that I wanted to ask you something , but I stray from subjects like a drunken man . 
I am anxious to know what my mother said to you when she last saw you . 
You talked with her a long time , I think ? I talked with her more than half an hour . 
And it must have been on account of what we said that she was on the heath . 
Without question she was coming to see you . 
But why should she come to see me if she felt so bitterly against me ? There's the mystery . 
Yet I know she quite forgave 'ee . 
She blamed herself for what had happened , and only herself . 
I had it from her own lips . 
How can it be , Venn , that she should have told such different stories in close succession ? I cannot say . 
It is certainly odd , when she had forgiven you , and had forgiven your wife , and was going to see ye on purpose to make friends . 
If there was one thing wanting to bewilder me it was this incomprehensible thing ! . 
He continued in the same state all the afternoon . 
How to discover a solution to this riddle of death seemed a query of more importance than highest problems of the living . 
There was housed in his memory a vivid picture of the face of a little boy as he entered the hovel where Clym's mother lay . 
The round eyes , eager gaze , the piping voice which enunciated the words , had operated like stilettos on his brain . 
A visit to the boy suggested itself as a means of gleaning new particulars though it might be quite unproductive . 
There was nothing else left to do after that he would allow the enigma to drop into the abyss of undiscoverable things . 
It was about daybreak when he had reached this decision , and he at once arose . 
He locked up the house and went out into the green patch which merged in heather further on . 
In front of the white garden palings the path branched into three like a broad arrow . 
On inclining into the latter path Yeobright felt a creeping chilliness , familiar enough to most people , and probably caused by the unsunned morning air . 
In after days he thought of it as a thing of singular significance . 
When Yeobright reached the cottage of Susan Nunsuch , the mother of the boy he sought , he found that the inmates were not yet astir . 
But in upland hamlets the transition from a bed to abroad is surprisingly swift and easy . 
There no dense partition of yawns and toilets divides humanity by night from humanity by day . 
Yeobright tapped at the upper windowsill , which he could reach with his walking stick and in three or four minutes the woman came down . 
It was not till this moment that Clym recollected her to be the person who had behaved so barbarously to Eustacia . 
It partly explained the insuavity with which the woman greeted him . 
Yeobright overcame his repugnance , for Susan had at least borne his mother no ill will . 
He asked kindly for the boy but her manner did not improve . 
I wish to see him , continued Yeobright , with some hesitation , to ask him if he remembers anything more of his walk with my mother than what he has previously told . 
She regarded him in a peculiar and criticizing manner . 
To anybody but a half blind man it would have said , You want another of the knocks which have already laid you so low . 
She called the boy downstairs , asked Clym to sit down on a stool , and continued , Now , Johnny , tell Mr. Yeobright anything you can call to mind . 
You have not forgotten how you walked with the poor lady on that hot day ? said Clym . 
No , said the boy . 
And what she said to you ? The boy repeated the exact words he had used on entering the hut . 
She was going to Alderworth when you first met her ? No she was coming away . 
Yes she walked along with me . 
I was coming away , too . 
Then where did you first see her ? At your house . 
Attend , and speak the truth ! said Clym sternly . 
Yes , sir at your house was where I seed her first . 
Good God ! this is all news to me ! You never told me this before ? said Susan . 
No , Mother because I didn't like to tell 'ee I had been so far . 
I was picking blackhearts , and went further than I meant . 
What did she do then ? said Yeobright . 
Looked at a man who came up and went into your house . 
That was myself a furze cutter , with brambles in his hand . 
You had gone in afore . 
Who was he ? I don't know . 
Now tell me what happened next . 
The poor lady went and knocked at your door , and the lady with black hair looked out of the side window at her . 
The boy's mother turned to Clym and said , This is something you didn't expect ? Yeobright took no more notice of her than if he had been of stone . 
Go on , go on , he said hoarsely to the boy . 
We walked on together , she and I , and I talked to her and she talked to me a bit , but not much , because she couldn't blow her breath . 
O ! murmured Clym , in a low tone , and bowed his head . 
Let's have more , he said . 
She couldn't talk much , and she couldn't walk and her face was , O so queer ! How was her face ? Like yours is now . 
The woman looked at Yeobright , and beheld him colourless , in a cold sweat . 
Isn't there meaning in it ? she said stealthily . 
What do you think of her now ? Silence ! said Clym fiercely . 
And , turning to the boy , And then you left her to die ? No , said the woman , quickly and angrily . 
He did not leave her to die ! She sent him away . 
Whoever says he forsook her says what's not true . 
Trouble no more about that , answered Clym , with a quivering mouth . 
What he did is a trifle in comparison with what he saw . 
He said so , answered the mother , and Johnny's a God fearing boy and tells no lies . 
The strangest deeds were possible to his mood . 
But they were not possible to his situation . 
Eustacia Dresses Herself on a Black Morning A consciousness of a vast impassivity in all which lay around him took possession even of Yeobright in his wild walk towards Alderworth . 
It was once when he stood parting from Eustacia in the moist still levels beyond the hills . 
But dismissing all this he went onward home , and came to the front of his house . 
The blinds of Eustacia's bedroom were still closely drawn , for she was no early riser . 
Yeobright entered and went straight to his wife's room . 
She was not a woman given to speaking first at a meeting , and she allowed Clym to walk across in silence , without turning her head . 
He came behind her , and she saw his face in the glass . 
It was ashy , haggard , and terrible . 
He was close enough to see this , and the sight instigated his tongue . 
You know what is the matter , he said huskily . 
I see it in your face . 
Speak to me , said Yeobright peremptorily . 
The blanching process did not cease in her , and her lips now became as white as her face . 
She turned to him and said , Yes , Clym , I'll speak to you . 
Why do you return so early ? Can I do anything for you ? Yes , you can listen to me . 
It seems that my wife is not very well ? Why ? Your face , my dear your face . 
Or perhaps it is the pale morning light which takes your colour away ? Now I am going to reveal a secret to you . 
Ha ha ! O , that is ghastly ! What ? Your laugh . 
Ah ! you think to frighten me , she said , with a slight laugh . 
Is it worth while ? I am undefended , and alone . 
How extraordinary ! What do you mean ? As there is ample time I will tell you , though you know well enough . 
I mean that it is extraordinary that you should be alone in my absence . 
I do not remember dates so exactly , she said . 
I cannot recollect that anybody was with me besides yourself . 
The day I mean , said Yeobright , his voice growing louder and harsher , was the day you shut the door against my mother and killed her . 
The superstratum of timidity which often overlies those who are daring and defiant at heart had been passed through , and the mettlesome substance of the woman was reached . 
The red blood inundated her face , previously so pale . 
What are you going to do ? she said in a low voice , regarding him with a proud smile . 
You will not alarm me by holding on so but it would be a pity to tear my sleeve . 
Instead of letting go he drew her closer to him . 
You will get nothing from me by a blow , even though it should kill me , as it probably will . 
But perhaps you do not wish me to speak killing may be all you mean ? Kill you ! Do you expect it ? I do . 
Why ? No less degree of rage against me will match your previous grief for her . 
Phew I shall not kill you , he said contemptuously , as if under a sudden change of purpose . 
I did think of it but I shall not . 
I almost wish you would kill me , said she with gloomy bitterness . 
It is with no strong desire , I assure you , that I play the part I have lately played on earth . 
You are no blessing , my husband . 
You shut the door you looked out of the window upon her you had a man in the house with you you sent her away to die . 
'Tis too much but I must spare you . 
By my wretched soul you sting me , Eustacia ! I can keep it up , and hotly too . 
Now , then , madam , tell me his name ! Never , I am resolved . 
Then I'll find it myself . 
His eyes had fallen upon a small desk that stood near , on which she was accustomed to write her letters . 
Unlock this ! You have no right to say it . 
Without another word he seized the desk and dashed it to the floor . 
The hinge burst open , and a number of letters tumbled out . 
Stay ! said Eustacia , stepping before him with more excitement than she had hitherto shown . 
Come , come ! stand away ! I must see them . 
She looked at the letters as they lay , checked her feeling and moved indifferently aside when he gathered them up , and examined them . 
By no stretch of meaning could any but a harmless construction be placed upon a single one of the letters themselves . 
The solitary exception was an empty envelope directed to her , and the handwriting was Wildeve's . 
Can you read , madam ? Look at this envelope . 
Doubtless we shall find more soon , and what was inside them . 
I shall no doubt be gratified by learning in good time what a well finished and full blown adept in a certain trade my lady is . 
Do you say it to me do you ? she gasped . 
He searched further , but found nothing more . 
What was in this letter ? he said . 
Am I your hound that you should talk to me in this way ? Do you brave me ? do you stand me out , mistress ? Answer . 
Don't look at me with those eyes if you would bewitch me again ! Sooner than that I die . 
You refuse to answer ? I wouldn't tell you after this , if I were as innocent as the sweetest babe in heaven ! Which you are not . 
Certainly I am not absolutely , she replied . 
I have not done what you suppose but if to have done no harm at all is the only innocence recognized , I am beyond forgiveness . 
But I require no help from your conscience . 
You can resist , and resist again ! Instead of hating you I could , I think , mourn for and pity you , if you were contrite , and would confess all . 
Forgive you I never can . 
I don't speak of your lover I will give you the benefit of the doubt in that matter , for it only affects me personally . 
But the other had you half killed me , had it been that you wilfully took the sight away from these feeble eyes of mine , I could have forgiven you . 
But THAT'S too much for nature ! Say no more . 
I will do without your pity . 
But I would have saved you from uttering what you will regret . 
I am going away now . 
You need not go , as I am going myself . 
You will keep just as far away from me by staying here . 
She was angered quickly , but she forgave just as readily , and underneath her pride there was the meekness of a child . 
? what cared you ? You hated her just as she was learning to love you . 
Well , she's asleep now and have you a hundred gallants , neither they nor you can insult her any more . 
You exaggerate fearfully , she said in a faint , weary voice but I cannot enter into my defence it is not worth doing . 
You are nothing to me in future , and the past side of the story may as well remain untold . 
I have lost all through you , but I have not complained . 
Your blunders and misfortunes may have been a sorrow to you , but they have been a wrong to me . 
All persons of refinement have been scared away from me since I sank into the mire of marriage . 
But the place will serve as well as any other as somewhere to pass from into my grave . 
Her words were smothered in her throat , and her head drooped down . 
I don't know what you mean by that . 
What , you can begin to shed tears and offer me your hand ? Good God ! can you ? No , not I. I'll not commit the fault of taking that . 
Well , yes , I'll take it , if only for the sake of my own foolish kisses that were wasted there before I knew what I cherished . 
O , will you have done ! O , you are too relentless there's a limit to the cruelty of savages ! I have held out long but you crush me down . 
O , O ! God have mercy upon a miserable woman ! . 
You have beaten me in this game I beg you to stay your hand in pity ! . 
When I found you had not I opened it , but she was gone . 
That's the extent of my crime towards HER . 
Best natures commit bad faults sometimes , don't they ? I think they do . 
Now I will leave you for ever and ever ! Tell all , and I WILL pity you . 
Was the man in the house with you Wildeve ? I cannot tell , she said desperately through her sobbing . 
Don't insist further I cannot tell . 
I am going from this house . 
We cannot both stay here . 
You need not go I will go . 
No , I will dress , and then I will go . 
Where ? Where I came from , or ELSEWHERE . 
She hastily dressed herself , Yeobright moodily walking up and down the room the whole of the time . 
At last all her things were on . 
Seeing this he moved forward and said , Let me tie them . 
She assented in silence , and lifted her chin . 
For once at least in her life she was totally oblivious of the charm of her attitude . 
But he was not , and he turned his eyes aside , that he might not be tempted to softness . 
The strings were tied she turned from him . 
Do you still prefer going away yourself to my leaving you ? he inquired again . 
Very well let it be . 
And when you will confess to the man I may pity you . 
She flung her shawl about her and went downstairs , leaving him standing in the room . 
What a mockery ! said Clym . 
She did not know what to do . 
She wished it had been night instead of morning , that she might at least have borne her misery without the possibility of being seen . 
Tracing mile after mile along between the dying ferns and the wet white spiders' webs , she at length turned her steps towards her grandfather's house . 
She found the front door closed and locked . 
Mechanically she went round to the end where the stable was , and on looking in at the stable door she saw Charley standing within . 
Captain Vye is not at home ? she said . 
No , ma'am , said the lad in a flutter of feeling he's gone to Weatherbury , and won't be home till night . 
And the servant is gone home for a holiday . 
So the house is locked up . 
She turned and walked away across the enclosure to the gate , and was hidden by the bank . 
When she had disappeared Charley , with misgiving in his eyes , slowly came from the stable door , and going to another point in the bank he looked over . 
Eustacia was leaning against it on the outside , her face covered with her hands , and her head pressing the dewy heather which bearded the bank's outer side . 
She appeared to be utterly indifferent to the circumstance that her bonnet , hair , and garments were becoming wet and disarranged by the moisture of her cold , harsh pillow . 
Charley had always regarded Eustacia as Eustacia had regarded Clym when she first beheld him as a romantic and sweet vision , scarcely incarnate . 
The inner details of her life he had only conjectured . 
He could no longer remain where he was . 
Leaping over , he came up , touched her with his finger , and said tenderly , You are poorly , ma'am . 
What can I do ? Eustacia started up , and said , Ah , Charley you have followed me . 
You did not think when I left home in the summer that I should come back like this ! I did not , dear ma'am . 
Can I help you now ? I am afraid not . 
I wish I could get into the house . 
I feel giddy that's all . 
Lean on my arm , ma'am , till we get to the porch , and I will try to open the door . 
Next he assisted her into the room , where there was an old fashioned horsehair settee as large as a donkey wagon . 
She lay down here , and Charley covered her with a cloak he found in the hall . 
Shall I get you something to eat and drink ? he said . 
If you please , Charley . 
But I suppose there is no fire ? I can light it , ma'am . 
He lit the fire , Eustacia dreamily observing him from her couch . 
When it was blazing up he said , Shall I wheel you round in front of it , ma'am , as the morning is chilly ? Yes , if you like . 
Shall I go and bring the victuals now ? Yes , do , she murmured languidly . 
After an interval which seemed short to her whose thoughts were elsewhere , he came in with a tray on which steamed tea and toast , though it was nearly lunch time . 
Place it on the table , she said . 
I shall be ready soon . 
He did so , and retired to the door when , however , he perceived that she did not move he came back a few steps . 
Let me hold it to you , if you don't wish to get up , said Charley . 
He brought the tray to the front of the couch , where he knelt down , adding , I will hold it for you . 
Eustacia sat up and poured out a cup of tea . 
You are very kind to me , Charley , she murmured as she sipped . 
You have been kind to me . 
How have I ? said Eustacia . 
You let me hold your hand when you were a maiden at home . 
Ah , so I did . 
Why did I do that ? My mind is lost it had to do with the mumming , had it not ? Yes , you wanted to go in my place . 
I do indeed remember too well ! She again became utterly downcast and Charley , seeing that she was not going to eat or drink any more , took away the tray . 
She remained on the settee some time longer , when she aroused herself and went upstairs . 
She peeped into her grandfather's room , through which the fresh autumn air was blowing from the open window . 
Her eye was arrested by what was a familiar sight enough , though it broke upon her now with a new significance . 
Eustacia regarded them long , as if they were the page of a book in which she read a new and a strange matter . 
Quickly , like one afraid of herself , she returned downstairs and stood in deep thought . 
If I could only do it ! she said . 
It would be doing much good to myself and all connected with me , and no harm to a single one . 
She turned and went up the second time softly and stealthily now and entered her grandfather's room , her eyes at once seeking the head of the bed . 
The instant quashing of her purpose by their absence affected her brain as a sudden vacuum affects the body she nearly fainted . 
Who had done this ? There was only one person on the premises besides herself . 
Eustacia involuntarily turned to the open window which overlooked the garden as far as the bank that bounded it . 
On the summit of the latter stood Charley , sufficiently elevated by its height to see into the room . 
His gaze was directed eagerly and solicitously upon her . 
She went downstairs to the door and beckoned to him . 
You have taken them away ? Yes , ma'am . 
Why did you do it ? I saw you looking at them too long . 
What has that to do with it ? You have been heart broken all the morning , as if you did not want to live . 
Well ? And I could not bear to leave them in your way . 
There was meaning in your look at them . 
Where are they now ? Locked up . 
Where ? In the stable . 
You refuse ? I do . 
I care too much for you to give 'em up . 
At last she confronted him again . 
Why should I not die if I wish ? she said tremulously . 
I have made a bad bargain with life , and I am weary of it weary . 
And now you have hindered my escape . 
What do you mean to do about this you have seen ? Keep it close as night , if you promise not to think of it again . 
She then went away , entered the house , and lay down . 
Later in the afternoon her grandfather returned . 
He was about to question her categorically , but on looking at her he withheld his words . 
Yes , it is too bad to talk of , she slowly returned in answer to his glance . 
Can my old room be got ready for me tonight , Grandfather ? I shall want to occupy it again . 
He did not ask what it all meant , or why she had left her husband , but ordered the room to be prepared . 
An Old Move Inadvertently Repeated Charley's attentions to his former mistress were unbounded . 
The only solace to his own trouble lay in his attempts to relieve hers . 
Perhaps she would always remain there , he thought , and then he would be as happy as he had been before . 
Having once really succoured her , and possibly preserved her from the rashest of acts , he mentally assumed in addition a guardian's responsibility for her welfare . 
These he deposited on the premises in such positions that she should see them as if by accident . 
A week passed , Eustacia never going out of the house . 
Then she walked into the enclosed plot and looked through her grandfather's spyglass , as she had been in the habit of doing before her marriage . 
One day she saw , at a place where the highroad crossed the distant valley , a heavily laden wagon passing along . 
It was piled with household furniture . 
She looked again and again , and recognized it to be her own . 
In the evening her grandfather came indoors with a rumour that Yeobright had removed that day from Alderworth to the old house at Blooms End . 
On another occasion when reconnoitring thus she beheld two female figures walking in the vale . 
The day was fine and clear and the persons not being more than half a mile off she could see their every detail with the telescope . 
She called Charley , and asked him if he knew who they were , though she well guessed . 
Mrs. Wildeve and the nurse girl , said Charley . 
The nurse is carrying the baby ? said Eustacia . 
No , 'tis Mrs. Wildeve carrying that , he answered , and the nurse walks behind carrying nothing . 
At every vacant minute he hastened to gather furze stumps , thorn tree roots , and other solid materials from the adjacent slopes , hiding them from cursory view . 
The evening came , and Eustacia was still seemingly unconscious of the anniversary . 
She had gone indoors after her survey through the glass , and had not been visible since . 
As soon as it was quite dark Charley began to build the bonfire , choosing precisely that spot on the bank which Eustacia had chosen at previous times . 
When all the surrounding bonfires had burst into existence Charley kindled his , and arranged its fuel so that it should not require tending for some time . 
He then went back to the house , and lingered round the door and windows till she should by some means or other learn of his achievement and come out to witness it . 
But the shutters were closed , the door remained shut , and no heed whatever seemed to be taken of his performance . 
Not liking to call her he went back and replenished the fire , continuing to do this for more than half an hour . 
Eustacia , who had been sitting listlessly in the parlour , started up at the intelligence and flung open the shutters . 
Facing her on the bank blazed the fire , which at once sent a ruddy glare into the room where she was , and overpowered the candles . 
Well done , Charley ! said Captain Vye from the chimney corner . 
But I hope it is not my wood that he's burning . 
She could see Charley's form on the bank , shovelling and stirring the fire and there flashed upon her imagination some other form which that fire might call up . 
She left the room , put on her garden bonnet and cloak , and went out . 
Thank you , she said hastily . 
But I wish you to put it out now . 
It will soon burn down , said Charley , rather disappointed . 
Is it not a pity to knock it out ? I don't know , she musingly answered . 
They stood in silence , broken only by the crackling of the flames , till Charley , perceiving that she did not want to talk to him , moved reluctantly away . 
Eustacia remained within the bank looking at the fire , intending to go indoors , yet lingering still . 
Had she not by her situation been inclined to hold in indifference all things honoured of the gods and of men she would probably have come away . 
But her state was so hopeless that she could play with it . 
While she stood she heard a sound . 
It was the splash of a stone in the pond . 
Had Eustacia received the stone full in the bosom her heart could not have given a more decided thump . 
She had thought of the possibility of such a signal in answer to that which had been unwittingly given by Charley but she had not expected it yet . 
More than that it did not do , for she refrained even from ascending the bank and looking over . 
There was a second splash into the pond . 
Why did he stay so long without advancing and looking over ? Curiosity had its way she ascended one or two of the earth steps in the bank and glanced out . 
He had come forward after throwing the last pebble , and the fire now shone into each of their faces from the bank stretching breast high between them . 
I did not light it ! cried Eustacia quickly . 
It was lit without my knowledge . 
Don't , don't come over to me ! Why have you been living here all these days without telling me ? You have left your home . 
My poor , poor girl ! He stepped over the bank . 
She sobbed on desperately then the outpour lessened , and she became quieter . 
Wildeve had resisted the impulse to clasp her , and stood without speaking . 
Are you not ashamed of me , who used never to be a crying animal ? she asked in a weak whisper as she wiped her eyes . 
Why didn't you go away ? I wish you had not seen quite all that it reveals too much by half . 
You might have wished it , because it makes me as sad as you , he said with emotion and deference . 
As for revealing the word is impossible between us two . 
O , Eustacia , forgive me for the harm I have done you in these two past years ! I see more and more that I have been your ruin . 
This place I live in . 
Ah , your generosity may naturally make you say that . 
But I am the culprit . 
I should either have done more or nothing at all . 
In what way ? I ought never to have hunted you out , or , having done it , I ought to have persisted in retaining you . 
But of course I have no right to talk of that now . 
You may command me , Eustacia , to the limit of my influence and don't forget that I am richer now . 
Surely something can be done to save you from this ! Such a rare plant in such a wild place it grieves me to see . 
Whatever I may feel I promise you on my word of honour never to speak to you about or act upon until you say I may . 
I know my duty to Thomasin quite as well as I know my duty to you as a woman unfairly treated . 
What shall I assist you in ? In getting away from here . 
Where do you wish to go to ? I have a place in my mind . 
If you could help me as far as Budmouth I can do all the rest . 
Steamers sail from there across the Channel , and so I can get to Paris , where I want to be . 
Yes , she pleaded earnestly , help me to get to Budmouth harbour without my grandfather's or my husband's knowledge , and I can do all the rest . 
Will it be safe to leave you there alone ? Yes , yes . 
Shall I go with you ? I am rich now . 
Say yes , sweet ! She was silent still . 
Well , let me know when you wish to go . 
We shall be at our present house till December after that we remove to Casterbridge . 
Command me in anything till that time . 
I will think of this , she said hurriedly . 
Whether I can honestly make use of you as a friend , or must close with you as a lover that is what I must ask myself . 
I will look out every night at eight , and no signal shall escape me . 
If I decide on this escape I can only meet you once more unless I cannot go without you . 
Go I cannot bear it longer . 
Thomasin Argues with Her Cousin , and He Writes a Letter Yeobright was at this time at Blooms End , hoping that Eustacia would return to him . 
The removal of furniture had been accomplished only that day , though Clym had lived in the old house for more than a week . 
He took no particular pleasure in these deeds , but they formed a screen between himself and despair . 
Moreover , it had become a religion with him to preserve in good condition all that had lapsed from his mother's hands to his own . 
During these operations he was constantly on the watch for Eustacia . 
When a leaf floated to the earth he turned his head , thinking it might be her foot fall . 
Up to this hour he had persevered in his resolve not to invite her back . 
At the same time the severity with which he had treated her lulled the sharpness of his regret for his mother , and awoke some of his old solicitude for his mother's supplanter . 
Harsh feelings produce harsh usage , and this by reaction quenches the sentiments that gave it birth . 
The more he reflected the more he softened . 
And this once admitted , an absolutely dark interpretation of her act towards his mother was no longer forced upon him . 
On the evening of the fifth November his thoughts of Eustacia were intense . 
Echoes from those past times when they had exchanged tender words all the day long came like the diffused murmur of a seashore left miles behind . 
Surely , he said , she might have brought herself to communicate with me before now , and confess honestly what Wildeve was to her . 
Instead of remaining at home that night he determined to go and see Thomasin and her husband . 
If it proved that Wildeve was innocently there he would doubtless openly mention it . 
If he were there with unjust intentions Wildeve , being a man of quick feeling , might possibly say something to reveal the extent to which Eustacia was compromised . 
But on reaching his cousin's house he found that only Thomasin was at home , Wildeve being at that time on his way towards the bonfire innocently lit by Charley at Mistover . 
Thomasin then , as always , was glad to see Clym , and took him to inspect the sleeping baby , carefully screening the candlelight from the infant's eyes with her hand . 
Tamsin , have you heard that Eustacia is not with me . 
now ? he said when they had sat down again . 
No , said Thomasin , alarmed . 
And not that I have left Alderworth ? No. I never hear tidings from Alderworth unless you bring them . 
He suppressed all mention of Wildeve's presence with her . 
Very well , then I'll admit that he can . 
But now what is to be done ? Make it up again if a quarrel so deadly can ever be made up . 
I almost wish you had not told me . 
But do try to be reconciled . 
There are ways , after all , if you both wish to . 
I don't know that we do both wish to make it up , said Clym . 
If she had wished it , would she not have sent to me by this time ? You seem to wish to , and yet you have not sent to her . 
True but I have been tossed to and fro in doubt if I ought , after such strong provocation . 
To see me now , Thomasin , gives you no idea of what I have been of what depths I have descended to in these few last days . 
She says herself that she did not . 
But the fact remains that keep her out she did . 
Believe her sorry , and send for her . 
How if she will not come ? It will prove her guilty , by showing that it is her habit to nourish enmity . 
But I do not think that for a moment . 
I will wait for a day or two longer not longer than two days certainly and if she does not send to me in that time I will indeed send to her . 
I thought to have seen Wildeve here tonight . 
Is he from home ? Thomasin blushed a little . 
He is merely gone out for a walk . 
Why didn't he take you with him ? The evening is fine . 
You want fresh air as well as he . 
Oh , I don't care for going anywhere besides , there is baby . 
Well , I have been thinking whether I should not consult your husband about this as well as you , said Clym steadily . 
I fancy I would not , she quickly answered . 
It can do no good . 
Her cousin looked her in the face . 
Clym , however , could make nothing of it , and he rose to depart , more in doubt than when he came . 
You will write to her in a day or two ? said the young woman earnestly . 
I do so hope the wretched separation may come to an end . 
I will , said Clym I don't rejoice in my present state at all . 
And he left her and climbed over the hill to Blooms End . 
Before going to bed he sat down and wrote the following letter MY DEAR EUSTACIA , I must obey my heart without consulting my reason too closely . 
Will you come back to me ? Do so , and the past shall never be mentioned . 
All that an honest man can promise you I promise now , which is that from me you shall never suffer anything on this score again . 
After all the vows we have made , Eustacia , I think we had better pass the remainder of our lives in trying to keep them . 
Come to me , then , even if you reproach me . 
I have thought of your sufferings that morning on which I parted from you I know they were genuine , and they are as much as you ought to bear . 
Our love must still continue . 
Such hearts as ours would never have been given us but to be concerned with each other . 
I could not ask you back at first , Eustacia , for I was unable to persuade myself that he who was with you was not there as a lover . 
But if you will come and explain distracting appearances I do not question that you can show your honesty to me . 
Why have you not come before ? Do you think I will not listen to you ? Surely not , when you remember the kisses and vows we exchanged under the summer moon . 
Return then , and you shall be warmly welcomed . 
I can no longer think of you to your prejudice I am but too much absorbed in justifying you . 
Your husband as ever , CLYM . 
There , he said , as he laid it in his desk , that's a good thing done . 
If she does not come before tomorrow night I will send it to her . 
Meanwhile , at the house he had just left Thomasin sat sighing uneasily . 
Fidelity to her husband had that evening induced her to conceal all suspicion that Wildeve's interest in Eustacia had not ended with his marriage . 
But she knew nothing positive and though Clym was her well beloved cousin there was one nearer to her still . 
I dislike being in the house by myself . 
Frightened ? he said , touching her cheek as if she were some domestic animal . 
Why , I thought nothing could frighten you . 
It is that you are getting proud , I am sure , and don't like living here since we have risen above our business . 
No I don't mind waiting I would rather stay here twelve months longer than run any risk with baby . 
But I don't like your vanishing so in the evenings . 
There's something on your mind I know there is , Damon . 
You go about so gloomily , and look at the heath as if it were somebody's gaol instead of a nice wild place to walk in . 
He looked towards her with pitying surprise . 
What , do you like Egdon Heath ? he said . 
I like what I was born near to I admire its grim old face . 
You don't know what you like . 
I am sure I do . 
There's only one thing unpleasant about Egdon . 
What's that ? You never take me with you when you walk there . 
Why do you wander so much in it yourself if you so dislike it ? The inquiry , though a simple one , was plainly disconcerting , and he sat down before replying . 
I don't think you often see me there . 
I will , she answered triumphantly . 
When you went out this evening I thought that as baby was asleep I would see where you were going to so mysteriously without telling me . 
So I ran out and followed behind you . 
Then I stood and watched you . 
She went across to him , sat on a footstool , and looked up in his face . 
Nonsense ! he said , that's how you always back out . 
We will go on with it now we have begun . 
What did you next see ? I particularly want to know . 
Don't be like that , Damon ! she murmured . 
You vanished out of sight , and then I looked round at the bonfires and came in . 
Perhaps this is not the only time you have dogged my steps . 
What DO you mean ? he impatiently asked . 
Now , he said , flourishing his hand in the air , just out with it , madam ! I demand to know what remarks you have heard . 
Well , I heard that you used to be very fond of Eustacia nothing more than that , though dropped in a bit by bit way . 
You ought not to be angry ! He observed that her eyes were brimming with tears . 
Well , he said , there is nothing new in that , and of course I don't mean to be rough towards you , so you need not cry . 
Now , don't let us speak of the subject any more . 
And no more was said , Thomasin being glad enough of a reason for not mentioning Clym's visit to her that evening , and his story . 
The Night of the Sixth of November Having resolved on flight Eustacia at times seemed anxious that something should happen to thwart her own intention . 
The only event that could really change her position was the appearance of Clym . 
She had used to think of the heath alone as an uncongenial spot to be in she felt it now of the whole world . 
Towards evening on the sixth her determination to go away again revived . 
Eustacia could not rest indoors , having nothing more to do , and she wandered to and fro on the hill , not far from the house she was soon to leave . 
In these desultory ramblings she passed the cottage of Susan Nunsuch , a little lower down than her grandfather's . 
The door was ajar , and a riband of bright firelight fell over the ground without . 
A woman who was sitting inside the cottage had seen and recognized her in that momentary irradiation . 
This was Susan herself , occupied in preparing a posset for her little boy , who , often ailing , was now seriously unwell . 
Susan dropped the spoon , shook her fist at the vanished figure , and then proceeded with her work in a musing , absent way . 
This she carried to the corner of the bank , and , glancing behind to see if the shutters were all closed , she struck a light , and kindled the furze . 
When it was thoroughly ablaze Eustacia took it by the stem and waved it in the air above her head till it had burned itself out . 
She was gratified , if gratification were possible to such a mood , by seeing a similar light in the vicinity of Wildeve's residence a minute or two later . 
Having agreed to keep watch at this hour every night , in case she should require assistance , this promptness proved how strictly he had held to his word . 
Four hours after the present time , that is , at midnight , he was to be ready to drive her to Budmouth , as prearranged . 
Eustacia returned to the house . 
Supper having been got over she retired early , and sat in her bedroom waiting for the time to go by . 
About ten o'clock there was a knock at the door . 
When the servant opened it the rays of the candle fell upon the form of Fairway . 
So I have run back with it at once . 
He handed in a letter and went his way . 
The girl brought it to the captain , who found that it was directed to Eustacia . 
He turned it over and over , and fancied that the writing was her husband's , though he could not be sure . 
Just as he had lain down he was surprised to observe the white pole of the staff flash into existence like a streak of phosphorus drawn downwards across the shade of night without . 
Only one explanation met this a light had been suddenly thrown upon the pole from the direction of the house . 
As everybody had retired to rest the old man felt it necessary to get out of bed , open the window softly , and look to the right and left . 
Eustacia's bedroom was lighted up , and it was the shine from her window which had lighted the pole . 
She is thinking of that husband of hers , he said to himself . 
Ah , the silly goose ! she had no business to marry him . 
I wonder if that letter is really his ? He arose , threw his boat cloak round him , opened the door , and said , Eustacia ! There was no answer . 
Eustacia ! he repeated louder , there is a letter on the mantelpiece for you . 
He went on to the landing , and stood waiting nearly five minutes . 
Still she did not return . 
He went back for a light , and prepared to follow her but first he looked into her bedroom . 
He was now thoroughly alarmed and hastily putting on his clothes he descended to the front door , which he himself had bolted and locked . 
There was no longer any doubt that Eustacia had left the house at this midnight hour and whither could she have gone ? To follow her was almost impossible . 
Perplexed what to do , he looked into the parlour , and was vexed to find that the letter still lay there untouched . 
When she got into the outer air she found that it had begun to rain , and as she stood pausing at the door it increased , threatening to come on heavily . 
But having committed herself to this line of action there was no retreating for bad weather . 
Even the receipt of Clym's letter would not have stopped her now . 
The gloom of the night was funereal all nature seemed clothed in crape . 
The spiky points of the fir trees behind the house rose into the sky like the turrets and pinnacles of an abbey . 
Nothing below the horizon was visible save a light which was still burning in the cottage of Susan Nunsuch . 
Eustacia opened her umbrella and went out from the enclosure by the steps over the bank , after which she was beyond all danger of being perceived . 
The moon and stars were closed up by cloud and rain to the degree of extinction . 
Eustacia at length reached Rainbarrow , and stood still there to think . 
Never was harmony more perfect than that between the chaos of her mind and the chaos of the world without . 
A sudden recollection had flashed on her this moment she had not money enough for undertaking a long journey . 
Could it be that she was to remain a captive still ? Money she had never felt its value before . 
Even to efface herself from the country means were required . 
Extreme unhappiness weighed visibly upon her . 
When a woman in such a situation , neither old , deaf , crazed , nor whimsical , takes upon herself to sob and soliloquize aloud there is something grievous the matter . 
Can I go , can I go ? she moaned . 
He's not GREAT enough for me to give myself to he does not suffice for my desire ! . 
If he had been a Saul or a Bonaparte ah ! But to break my marriage vow for him it is too poor a luxury ! . 
How I have tried and tried to be a splendid woman , and how destiny has been against me ! . 
I do not deserve my lot ! she cried in a frenzy of bitter revolt . 
What Eustacia did not divine was the occupation of the woman within at that moment . 
On this account Susan did not go to bed as soon as the evening's work was over , as she would have done at ordinary times . 
It was a practice well known on Egdon at that date , and one that is not quite extinct at the present day . 
On a shelf over the pans was a smooth and solid yellow mass of a hemispherical form , consisting of beeswax from the same take of honey . 
As soon as the wax had softened to the plasticity of dough she kneaded the pieces together . 
And now her face became more intent . 
She began moulding the wax and it was evident from her manner of manipulation that she was endeavouring to give it some preconceived form . 
She laid it on the table to get cold and hard . 
Meanwhile she took the candle and went upstairs to where the little boy was lying . 
Did you notice , my dear , what Mrs. Eustacia wore this afternoon besides the dark dress ? A red ribbon round her neck . 
Anything else ? No except sandal shoes . 
A red ribbon and sandal shoes , she said to herself . 
Mrs. Nunsuch went and searched till she found a fragment of the narrowest red ribbon , which she took downstairs and tied round the neck of the image . 
Finally she tied a bit of black thread round the upper part of the head , in faint resemblance to a snood worn for confining the hair . 
Susan held the object at arm's length and contemplated it with a satisfaction in which there was no smile . 
To anybody acquainted with the inhabitants of Egdon Heath the image would have suggested Eustacia Yeobright . 
These she began to thrust into the image in all directions , with apparently excruciating energy . 
She turned to the fire . 
She took a few pieces of fresh turf from the chimney corner and built them together over the glow , upon which the fire brightened . 
Seizing with the tongs the image that she had made of Eustacia , she held it in the heat , and watched it as it began to waste slowly away . 
And while she stood thus engaged there came from between her lips a murmur of words . 
It was a strange jargon the Lord's Prayer repeated backwards the incantation usual in proceedings for obtaining unhallowed assistance against an enemy . 
Susan uttered the lugubrious discourse three times slowly , and when it was completed the image had considerably diminished . 
As the wax dropped into the fire a long flame arose from the spot , and curling its tongue round the figure ate still further into its substance . 
A pin occasionally dropped with the wax , and the embers heated it red as it lay . 
He had fulfilled his word to Thomasin by sending off Fairway with the letter to his wife , and now waited with increased impatience for some sound or signal of her return . 
If one were handed to him he was to bring it immediately if not , he was to go straight home without troubling to come round to Blooms End again that night . 
But secretly Clym had a more pleasing hope . 
Eustacia might possibly decline to use her pen it was rather her way to work silently and surprise him by appearing at his door . 
How fully her mind was made up to do otherwise he did not know . 
To Clym's regret it began to rain and blow hard as the evening advanced . 
The wind rasped and scraped at the corners of the house , and filliped the eavesdroppings like peas against the panes . 
Between ten and eleven o'clock , finding that neither Fairway nor anybody else came to him , he retired to rest , and despite his anxieties soon fell asleep . 
Clym arose and looked out of the window . 
Rain was still falling heavily , the whole expanse of heath before him emitting a subdued hiss under the downpour . 
It was too dark to see anything at all . 
Who's there ? he cried . 
Surely it is Eustacia ! he murmured . 
If so , she had indeed come to him unawares . 
He hastily got a light , dressed himself , and went down . 
On his flinging open the door the rays of the candle fell upon a woman closely wrapped up , who at once came forward . 
Thomasin ! he exclaimed in an indescribable tone of disappointment . 
It is Thomasin , and on such a night as this ! O , where is Eustacia ? Thomasin it was , wet , frightened , and panting . 
Eustacia ? I don't know , Clym but I can think , she said with much perturbation . 
Let me come in and rest I will explain this . 
'Where ? I asked him . 
'I cannot tell you at present , he said 'I shall be back again tomorrow . 
He then went and busied himself in looking up his things , and took no notice of me at all . 
I expected to see him start , but he did not , and then it came to be ten o'clock , when he said , 'You had better go to bed . 
I didn't know what to do , and I went to bed . 
These he must have got from the bank when he went there the other day . 
Then I could not stay in bed I got up and dressed myself , and when I heard him out in the stable I thought I would come and tell you . 
So I came downstairs without any noise and slipped out . 
I think you could influence him . 
I'll go , said Clym . 
Thomasin briefly kissed the baby , and then found time to begin crying as she said , I brought baby , for I was afraid what might happen to her . 
Dry yourself , he said . 
I'll go and get some more wood . 
No , no don't stay for that . 
I'll make up the fire . 
Will you go at once please will you ? Yeobright ran upstairs to finish dressing himself . 
While he was gone another rapping came to the door . 
This time there was no delusion that it might be Eustacia's the footsteps just preceding it had been heavy and slow . 
Yeobright thinking it might possibly be Fairway with a note in answer , descended again and opened the door . 
Captain Vye ? he said to a dripping figure . 
Is my granddaughter here ? said the captain . 
No. Then where is she ? . 
But you ought to know you are her husband . 
Only in name apparently , said Clym with rising excitement . 
I believe she means to elope tonight with Wildeve . 
I am just going to look to it . 
Well , she has left my house she left about half an hour ago . 
Who's sitting there ? My cousin Thomasin . 
The captain bowed in a preoccupied way to her . 
I only hope it is no worse than an elopement , he said . 
Worse ? What's worse than the worst a wife can do ? Well , I have been told a strange tale . 
Before starting in search of her I called up Charley , my stable lad . 
I missed my pistols the other day . 
Pistols ? He said at the time that he took them down to clean . 
Where are the pistols ? Safely locked up . 
O no , she won't touch them again . 
But there are more ways of letting out life than through a bullet hole . 
What did you quarrel about so bitterly with her to drive her to all this ? You must have treated her badly indeed . 
Well , I was always against the marriage , and I was right . 
Are you going with me ? said Yeobright , paying no attention to the captain's latter remark . 
If so I can tell you what we quarrelled about as we walk along . 
Where to ? To Wildeve's that was her destination , depend upon it . 
I would fain go with 'ee , said the old man doubtfully . 
But I begin to be afraid that my legs will hardly carry me there such a night as this . 
I am not so young as I was . 
If they are interrupted in their flight she will be sure to come back to me , and I ought to be at the house to receive her . 
But be it as 'twill I can't walk to the Quiet Woman , and that's an end on't . 
It will perhaps be best , said Clym . 
Thomasin , dry yourself , and be as comfortable as you can . 
Clym crossed by the right hand track towards the inn . 
But the least part of Thomasin was in the house , for her heart being at ease about the little girl upstairs she was mentally following Clym on his journey . 
Having indulged in this imaginary peregrination for some considerable interval , she became impressed with a sense of the intolerable slowness of time . 
The moment then came when she could scarcely sit longer , and it was like a satire on her patience to remember that Clym could hardly have reached the inn as yet . 
At last she went to the baby's bedside . 
The child was sleeping soundly but her imagination of possibly disastrous events at her home , the predominance within her of the unseen over the seen , agitated her beyond endurance . 
She could not refrain from going down and opening the door . 
The rain still continued , the candlelight falling upon the nearest drops and making glistening darts of them as they descended across the throng of invisible ones behind . 
To plunge into that medium was to plunge into water slightly diluted with air . 
But the difficulty of returning to her house at this moment made her all the more desirous of doing so anything was better than suspense . 
I have come here well enough , she said , and why shouldn't I go back again ? It is a mistake for me to be away . 
She hastily fetched the infant , wrapped it up , cloaked herself as before , and shoveling the ashes over the fire , to prevent accidents , went into the open air . 
But Thomasin's imagination being so actively engaged elsewhere , the night and the weather had for her no terror beyond that of their actual discomfort and difficulty . 
She was soon ascending Blooms End valley and traversing the undulations on the side of the hill . 
The noise of the wind over the heath was shrill , and as if it whistled for joy at finding a night so congenial as this . 
Sometimes the path led her to hollows between thickets of tall and dripping bracken , dead , though not yet prostrate , which enclosed her like a pool . 
When they were more than usually tall she lifted the baby to the top of her head , that it might be out of the reach of their drenching fronds . 
Here self defence was impossible , and individual drops stuck into her like the arrows into Saint Sebastian . 
She was enabled to avoid puddles by the nebulous paleness which signified their presence , though beside anything less dark than the heath they themselves would have appeared as blackness . 
Yet in spite of all this Thomasin was not sorry that she had started . 
To her there were not , as to Eustacia , demons in the air , and malice in every bush and bough . 
The drops which lashed her face were not scorpions , but prosy rain Egdon in the mass was no monster whatever , but impersonal open ground . 
Her fears of the place were rational , her dislikes of its worst moods reasonable . 
At this time it was in her view a windy , wet place , in which a person might experience much discomfort , lose the path without care , and possibly catch cold . 
If the path is well known the difficulty at such times of keeping therein is not altogether great , from its familiar feel to the feet but once lost it is irrecoverable . 
Owing to her baby , who somewhat impeded Thomasin's view forward and distracted her mind , she did at last lose the track . 
This mishap occurred when she was descending an open slope about two thirds home . 
At length Thomasin reached a hollow and began to discern through the rain a faint blotted radiance , which presently assumed the oblong form of an open door . 
She knew that no house stood hereabouts , and was soon aware of the nature of the door by its height above the ground . 
Why , it is Diggory Venn's van , surely ! she said . 
A certain secluded spot near Rainbarrow was , she knew , often Venn's chosen centre when staying in this neighbourhood and she guessed at once that she had stumbled upon this mysterious retreat . 
The question arose in her mind whether or not she should ask him to guide her into the path . 
In her anxiety to reach home she decided that she would appeal to him , notwithstanding the strangeness of appearing before his eyes at this place and season . 
But when , in pursuance of this resolve , Thomasin reached the van and looked in she found it to be untenanted though there was no doubt that it was the reddleman's . 
The fire was burning in the stove , the lantern hung from the nail . 
Round the doorway the floor was merely sprinkled with rain , and not saturated , which told her that the door had not long been opened . 
I thought you went down the slope , he said , without noticing her face . 
How do you come back here again ? Diggory ? said Thomasin faintly . 
Who are you ? said Venn , still unperceiving . 
And why were you crying so just now ? O , Diggory ! don't you know me ? said she . 
But of course you don't , wrapped up like this . 
What do you mean ? I have not been crying here , and I have not been here before . 
Venn then came nearer till he could see the illuminated side of her form . 
Mrs. Wildeve ! he exclaimed , starting . 
What is it ? he continued when they stood within . 
I have lost my way coming from Blooms End , and I am in a great hurry to get home . 
Please show me as quickly as you can ! It is so silly of me not to know Egdon better , and I cannot think how I came to lose the path . 
Show me quickly , Diggory , please . 
I will go with 'ee . 
But you came to me before this , Mrs. Wildeve ? I only came this minute . 
I hung up the lantern , and was curious enough to pull on my things and dog her a few steps , but I could see nothing of her any more . 
That was where I had been when you came up and when I saw you I thought you were the same one . 
Perhaps it was one of the heathfolk going home ? No , it couldn't be . 
The noise of her gown over the he'th was of a whistling sort that nothing but silk will make . 
It wasn't I , then . 
My dress is not silk , you see . 
Are we anywhere in a line between Mistover and the inn ? Well , yes not far out . 
I'll take the baby , ma'am , he said . 
You must be tired out by the weight . 
Thomasin hesitated a moment , and then delivered the baby into Venn's hands . 
I will , said Venn earnestly . 
As if I could hurt anything belonging to you ! I only meant accidentally , said Thomasin . 
You are sure the rain does not fall upon baby ? Quite sure . 
May I ask how old he is , ma'am ? He ! said Thomasin reproachfully . 
Anybody can see better than that in a moment . 
She is nearly two months old . 
How far is it now to the inn ? A little over a quarter of a mile . 
Will you walk a little faster ? I was afraid you could not keep up . 
I am very anxious to get there . 
Ah , there is a light from the window ! 'Tis not from the window . 
That's a gig lamp , to the best of my belief . 
O ! said Thomasin in despair . 
I wish I had been there sooner give me the baby , Diggory you can go back now . 
I must go all the way , said Venn . 
There is a quag between us and that light , and you will walk into it up to your neck unless I take you round . 
But the light is at the inn , and there is no quag in front of that . 
No , the light is below the inn some two or three hundred yards . 
Never mind , said Thomasin hurriedly . 
Go towards the light , and not towards the inn . 
Yes , answered Venn , swerving round in obedience and , after a pause , I wish you would tell me what this great trouble is . 
I think you have proved that I can be trusted . 
There are some things that cannot be cannot be told to And then her heart rose into her throat , and she could say no more . 
He was somewhat perturbed , and his manner of informing Thomasin that he was going on a journey was in itself sufficient to rouse her suspicions . 
He then went to the stable and coach house to assure himself that the horse , gig , and harness were in a fit condition for a long drive . 
Nearly half an hour was spent thus , and on returning to the house Wildeve had no thought of Thomasin being anywhere but in bed . 
At last all was quiet , and he had nothing to do but to wait . 
Here Wildeve waited , slightly sheltered from the driving rain by a high bank that had been cast up at this place . 
He lingered on in perfect stillness till he began to fancy that the midnight hour must have struck . 
A very strong doubt had arisen in his mind if Eustacia would venture down the hill in such weather yet knowing her nature he felt that she might . 
Poor thing ! 'tis like her ill luck , he murmured . 
At length he turned to the lamp and looked at his watch . 
To his surprise it was nearly a quarter past midnight . 
At this moment a footstep approached but the light of the lamps being in a different direction the comer was not visible . 
The step paused , then came on again . 
He stopped as if in doubt whether this waiting vehicle could have anything to do with the flight of his wife or not . 
The sight of Yeobright at once banished Wildeve's sober feelings , who saw him again as the deadly rival from whom Eustacia was to be kept at all hazards . 
Hence Wildeve did not speak , in the hope that Clym would pass by without particular inquiry . 
While they both hung thus in hesitation a dull sound became audible above the storm and wind . 
Its origin was unmistakable it was the fall of a body into the stream in the adjoining mead , apparently at a point near the weir . 
Good God ! can it be she ? said Clym . 
Why should it be she ? said Wildeve , in his alarm forgetting that he had hitherto screened himself . 
Ah ! that's you , you traitor , is it ? cried Yeobright . 
Why should it be she ? Because last week she would have put an end to her life if she had been able . 
She ought to have been watched ! Take one of the lamps and come with me . 
Clym reached the hatches , the framework of which was shaken to its foundations by the velocity of the current . 
Nothing but the froth of the waves could be discerned in the pool below . 
He got upon the plank bridge over the race , and holding to the rail , that the wind might not blow him off , crossed to the other side of the river . 
There he leant over the wall and lowered the lamp , only to behold the vortex formed at the curl of the returning current . 
Across this gashed and puckered mirror a dark body was slowly borne by one of the backward currents . 
O , my darling ! exclaimed Wildeve in an agonized voice and , without showing sufficient presence of mind even to throw off his greatcoat , he leaped into the boiling caldron . 
Yeobright could now also discern the floating body , though but indistinctly and imagining from Wildeve's plunge that there was life to be saved he was about to leap after . 
Here he was taken off his legs , and in swimming was carried round into the centre of the basin , where he perceived Wildeve struggling . 
While these hasty actions were in progress here , Venn and Thomasin had been toiling through the lower corner of the heath in the direction of the light . 
They had not been near enough to the river to hear the plunge , but they saw the removal of the carriage lamp , and watched its motion into the mead . 
As soon as they reached the car and horse Venn guessed that something new was amiss , and hastened to follow in the course of the moving light . 
Venn walked faster than Thomasin , and came to the weir alone . 
The lamp placed against the post by Clym still shone across the water , and the reddleman observed something floating motionless . 
Being encumbered with the infant , he ran back to meet Thomasin . 
Take the baby , please , Mrs. Wildeve , he said hastily . 
Run home with her , call the stable lad , and make him send down to me any men who may be living near . 
Somebody has fallen into the weir . 
Thomasin took the child and ran . 
When she came to the covered car the horse , though fresh from the stable , was standing perfectly still , as if conscious of misfortune . 
She saw for the first time whose it was . 
She nearly fainted , and would have been unable to proceed another step but that the necessity of preserving the little girl from harm nerved her to an amazing self control . 
Diggory , having returned to the brink of the pool , observed that the small upper hatches or floats were withdrawn . 
Propelled by his feet , he steered round and round the pool , ascending each time by one of the back streams and descending in the middle of the current . 
At first he could see nothing . 
Then amidst the glistening of the whirlpools and the white clots of foam he distinguished a woman's bonnet floating alone . 
His search was now under the left wall , when something came to the surface almost close beside him . 
It was not , as he had expected , a woman , but a man . 
As soon as Venn found his feet dragging over the pebbles of the shallower part below he secured his footing and waded towards the brink . 
There , where the water stood at about the height of his waist , he flung away the hatch , and attempted to drag forth the man . 
At this moment his heart bounded to hear footsteps running towards him , and two men , roused by Thomasin , appeared at the brink above . 
They ran to where Venn was , and helped him in lifting out the apparently drowned persons , separating them , and laying them out upon the grass . 
Venn turned the light upon their faces . 
The one who had been uppermost was Yeobright he who had been completely submerged was Wildeve . 
Now we must search the hole again , said Venn . 
A woman is in there somewhere . 
One of the men went to the footbridge and tore off the handrail . 
Pull it forward , said Venn , and they raked it in with the pole till it was close to their feet . 
Venn vanished under the stream , and came up with an armful of wet drapery enclosing a woman's cold form , which was all that remained of the desperate Eustacia . 
When they reached the bank there stood Thomasin , in a stress of grief , bending over the two unconscious ones who already lay there . 
The horse and cart were brought to the nearest point in the road , and it was the work of a few minutes only to place the three in the vehicle . 
Venn led on the horse , supporting Thomasin upon his arm , and the two men followed , till they reached the inn . 
But there seemed to be not a whiff of life in either of the bodies . 
Clym's alive ! she exclaimed . 
He soon breathed distinctly , and again and again did she attempt to revive her husband by the same means but Wildeve gave no sign . 
There was too much reason to think that he and Eustacia both were for ever beyond the reach of stimulating perfumes . 
Their exertions did not relax till the doctor arrived , when one by one , the senseless three were taken upstairs and put into warm beds . 
Thomasin surely would be broken down by the sudden and overwhelming nature of this event . 
As for himself , not being privileged to go to her and comfort her , he saw no reason for waiting longer in a house where he remained only as a stranger . 
He returned across the heath to his van . 
The fire was not yet out , and everything remained as he had left it . 
Venn now bethought himself of his clothes , which were saturated with water to the weight of lead . 
He changed them , spread them before the fire , and lay down to sleep . 
Rain was still falling heavily when he entered the kitchen . 
A bright fire was shining from the hearth , and two women were bustling about , one of whom was Olly Dowden . 
Well , how is it going on now ? said Venn in a whisper . 
Mr. Yeobright is better but Mrs. Yeobright and Mr. Wildeve are dead and cold . 
The doctor says they were quite gone before they were out of the water . 
Ah ! I thought as much when I hauled 'em up . 
And Mrs. Wildeve ? She is as well as can be expected . 
The doctor had her put between blankets , for she was almost as wet as they that had been in the river , poor young thing . 
You don't seem very dry , reddleman . 
Oh , 'tis not much . 
I have changed my things . 
This is only a little dampness I've got coming through the rain again . 
Mis'ess says you be to have whatever you want , and she was sorry when she was told that you'd gone away . 
Venn drew near to the fireplace , and looked into the flames in an absent mood . 
The steam came from his leggings and ascended the chimney with the smoke , while he thought of those who were upstairs . 
Two were corpses , one had barely escaped the jaws of death , another was sick and a widow . 
It had seemed at that time that the then position of affairs was good for at least twenty years to come . 
Yet , of all the circle , he himself was the only one whose situation had not materially changed . 
While he ruminated a footstep descended the stairs . 
It was the nurse , who brought in her hand a rolled mass of wet paper . 
The woman was so engrossed with her occupation that she hardly saw Venn . 
What be they ? said Venn . 
Poor master's banknotes , she answered . 
They were found in his pocket when they undressed him . 
Then he was not coming back again for some time ? said Venn . 
That we shall never know , said she . 
Venn was loth to depart , for all on earth that interested him lay under this roof . 
As nobody in the house had any more sleep that night , except the two who slept for ever , there was no reason why he should not remain . 
Then the woman came and unpinned them , and , folding them together , carried the handful upstairs . 
At four o'clock there was a gentle knock at the door . 
It was from Charley , who had been sent by Captain Vye to inquire if anything had been heard of Eustacia . 
Charley's only utterance was a feeble , indistinct sound . 
He stood quite still then he burst out spasmodically , I shall see her once more ? I dare say you may see her , said Diggory gravely . 
But hadn't you better run and tell Captain Vye ? Yes , yes . 
Only I do hope I shall see her just once again . 
Neither Venn nor Charley spoke , and Clym continued , You shall see her . 
There will be time enough to tell the captain when it gets daylight . 
You would like to see her too would you not , Diggory ? She looks very beautiful now . 
Venn assented by rising to his feet , and with Charley he followed Clym to the foot of the staircase , where he took off his boots Charley did the same . 
They followed Yeobright upstairs to the landing , where there was a candle burning , which Yeobright took in his hand , and with it led the way into an adjoining room . 
Here he went to the bedside and folded back the sheet . 
They stood silently looking upon Eustacia , who , as she lay there still in death , eclipsed all her living phases . 
Pallor did not include all the quality of her complexion , which seemed more than whiteness it was almost light . 
The expression of her finely carved mouth was pleasant , as if a sense of dignity had just compelled her to leave off speaking . 
Eternal rigidity had seized upon it in a momentary transition between fervour and resignation . 
Her black hair was looser now than either of them had ever seen it before , and surrounded her brow like a forest . 
The stateliness of look which had been almost too marked for a dweller in a country domicile had at last found an artistically happy background . 
Nobody spoke , till at length Clym covered her and turned aside . 
Now come here , he said . 
They went to a recess in the same room , and there , on a smaller bed , lay another figure Wildeve . 
Yeobright's manner had been so quiet , he had uttered so few syllables since his reappearance , that Venn imagined him resigned . 
It was only when they had left the room and stood upon the landing that the true state of his mind was apparent . 
Here he said , with a wild smile , inclining his head towards the chamber in which Eustacia lay , She is the second woman I have killed this year . 
I was a great cause of my mother's death , and I am the chief cause of hers . 
I spoke cruel words to her , and she left my house . 
I did not invite her back till it was too late . 
It is I who ought to have drowned myself . 
It would have been a charity to the living had the river overwhelmed me and borne her up . 
Those who ought to have lived lie dead and here am I alive ! But you can't charge yourself with crimes in that way , said Venn . 
You may as well say that the parents be the cause of a murder by the child , for without the parents the child would never have been begot . 
Yes , Venn , that is very true but you don't know all the circumstances . 
If it had pleased God to put an end to me it would have been a good thing for all . 
But I am getting used to the horror of my existence . 
They say that a time comes when men laugh at misery through long acquaintance with it . 
Surely that time will soon come to me ! Your aim has always been good , said Venn . 
Why should you say such desperate things ? No , they are not desperate . 
Yet , upon the whole , neither the man nor the woman lost dignity by sudden death . 
On those most nearly concerned the effect was somewhat different . 
Strangers who had heard of many such cases now merely heard of one more but immediately where a blow falls no previous imaginings amount to appreciable preparation for it . 
On the contrary , this fact seemed at first to set off the dead husband in his young wife's eyes , and to be the necessary cloud to the rainbow . 
But the horrors of the unknown had passed . 
Vague misgivings about her future as a deserted wife were at an end . 
The worst had once been matter of trembling conjecture it was now matter of reason only , a limited badness . 
Her chief interest , the little Eustacia , still remained . 
There was humility in her grief , no defiance in her attitude and when this is the case a shaken spirit is apt to be stilled . 
Could Thomasin's mournfulness now and Eustacia's serenity during life have been reduced to common measure , they would have touched the same mark nearly . 
But Thomasin's former brightness made shadow of that which in a sombre atmosphere was light itself . 
Outward events flattered Thomasin not a little . 
Wildeve had died intestate , and she and the child were his only relatives . 
Where should she live ? The obvious place was Blooms End . 
His sorrows had made some change in his outward appearance and yet the alteration was chiefly within . 
It might have been said that he had a wrinkled mind . 
He had no enemies , and he could get nobody to reproach him , which was why he so bitterly reproached himself . 
But that he and his had been sarcastically and pitilessly handled in having such irons thrust into their souls he did not maintain long . 
It is usually so , except with the sternest of men . 
Thus , though words of solace were vainly uttered in his presence , he found relief in a direction of his own choosing when left to himself . 
For a man of his habits the house and the hundred and twenty pounds a year which he had inherited from his mother were enough to supply all worldly needs . 
Resources do not depend upon gross amounts , but upon the proportion of spendings to takings . 
He frequently walked the heath alone , when the past seized upon him with its shadowy hand , and held him there to listen to its tale . 
Those of the dyed barbarians who had chosen the cultivable tracts were , in comparison with those who had left their marks here , as writers on paper beside writers on parchment . 
Their records had perished long ago by the plough , while the works of these remained . 
Yet they all had lived and died unconscious of the different fates awaiting their relics . 
It reminded him that unforeseen factors operate in the evolution of immortality . 
Winter again came round , with its winds , frosts , tame robins , and sparkling starlight . 
The year previous Thomasin had hardly been conscious of the season's advance this year she laid her heart open to external influences of every kind . 
One summer day Clym was in the garden , immediately outside the parlour window , which was as usual open . 
He was looking at the pot flowers on the sill they had been revived and restored by Thomasin to the state in which his mother had left them . 
He heard a slight scream from Thomasin , who was sitting inside the room . 
O , how you frightened me ! she said to someone who had entered . 
I thought you were the ghost of yourself . 
Clym was curious enough to advance a little further and look in at the window . 
Nothing in this appearance was at all singular but the fact of its great difference from what he had formerly been . 
I was so alarmed ! said Thomasin , smiling from one to the other . 
I couldn't believe that he had got white of his own accord ! It seemed supernatural . 
I gave up dealing in reddle last Christmas , said Venn . 
It was a profitable trade , and I found that by that time I had made enough to take the dairy of fifty cows that my father had in his lifetime . 
I always thought of getting to that place again if I changed at all , and now I am there . 
How did you manage to become white , Diggory ? Thomasin asked . 
I turned so by degrees , ma'am . 
You look much better than ever you did before . 
Venn appeared confused and Thomasin , seeing how inadvertently she had spoken to a man who might possibly have tender feelings for her still , blushed a little . 
Venn moved as if he would retire to the kitchen , when Thomasin said with pleasant pertness as she went on with some sewing , Of course you must sit down here . 
And where does your fifty cow dairy lie , Mr. Venn ? At Stickleford about two miles to the right of Alderworth , ma'am , where the meads begin . 
I have thought that if Mr. Yeobright would like to pay me a visit sometimes he shouldn't stay away for want of asking . 
I'll not bide to tea this afternoon , thank'ee , for I've got something on hand that must be settled . 
Venn waved his elbow towards the patch in front of the house . 
I have been talking to Fairway about it , he continued , and I said to him that before we put up the pole it would be as well to ask Mrs. Wildeve . 
I can say nothing against it , she answered . 
Our property does not reach an inch further than the white palings . 
But you might not like to see a lot of folk going crazy round a stick , under your very nose ? I shall have no objection at all . 
Venn soon after went away , and in the evening Yeobright strolled as far as Fairway's cottage . 
Beside Fairway's dwelling was an open space recessed from the road , and here were now collected all the young people from within a radius of a couple of miles . 
The pole lay with one end supported on a trestle , and women were engaged in wreathing it from the top downwards with wild flowers . 
The instincts of merry England lingered on here with exceptional vitality , and the symbolic customs which tradition has attached to each season of the year were yet a reality on Egdon . 
Yeobright did not interrupt the preparations , and went home again . 
The next morning , when Thomasin withdrew the curtains of her bedroom window , there stood the Maypole in the middle of the green , its top cutting into the sky . 
It had sprung up in the night , or rather early morning , like Jack's bean stalk . 
She opened the casement to get a better view of the garlands and posies that adorned it . 
Thomasin noticed all these , and was delighted that the May revel was to be so near . 
When afternoon came people began to gather on the green , and Yeobright was interested enough to look out upon them from the open window of his room . 
Soon after this Thomasin walked out from the door immediately below and turned her eyes up to her cousin's face . 
How pretty you look today , Thomasin ! he said . 
Is it because of the Maypole ? Not altogether . 
Every pulse of loverlike feeling which had not been stilled during Eustacia's lifetime had gone into the grave with her . 
His passion for her had occurred too far on in his manhood to leave fuel enough on hand for another fire of that sort , as may happen with more boyish loves . 
He could not bear to remain in the presence of enjoyment today , though he had tried hard . 
Nothing was seen of him for four hours . 
When he came back by the same path it was dusk , and the dews were coating every green thing . 
Thomasin was standing within the porch alone . 
She looked at him reproachfully . 
You went away just when it began , Clym , she said . 
I felt I could not join in . 
You went out with them , of course ? No , I did not . 
You appeared to be dressed on purpose . 
Yes , but I could not go out alone so many people were there . 
Yeobright strained his eyes across the dark green patch beyond the paling , and near the black form of the Maypole he discerned a shadowy figure , sauntering idly up and down . 
Who is it ? he said . 
Mr. Venn , said Thomasin . 
You might have asked him to come in , I think , Tamsie . 
He has been very kind to you first and last . 
I will now , she said and , acting on the impulse , went through the wicket to where Venn stood under the Maypole . 
It is Mr. Venn , I think ? she inquired . 
Venn started as if he had not seen her artful man that he was and said , Yes . 
Will you come in ? I am afraid that I I have seen you dancing this evening , and you had the very best of the girls for your partners . 
But the main reason why I am biding here like this is that I want to wait till the moon rises . 
To see how pretty the Maypole looks in the moonlight ? No. To look for a glove that was dropped by one of the maidens . 
Thomasin was speechless with surprise . 
Were you dancing with her , Diggory ? she asked , in a voice which revealed that he had made himself considerably more interesting to her by this disclosure . 
And you will not come in , then ? Not tonight , thank you , ma'am . 
Shall I lend you a lantern to look for the young person's glove , Mr. Venn ? O no it is not necessary , Mrs. Wildeve , thank you . 
The moon will rise in a few minutes . 
Thomasin went back to the porch . 
Is he coming in ? said Clym , who had been waiting where she had left him . 
He would rather not tonight , she said , and then passed by him into the house whereupon Clym too retired to his own rooms . 
She watched the growth of the faint radiance appearing in the sky by the eastern hill , till presently the edge of the moon burst upwards and flooded the valley with light . 
How very ridiculous ! Thomasin murmured to herself , in a tone which was intended to be satirical . 
What a pity ! At last Venn appeared to find it whereupon he stood up and raised it to his lips . 
Then placing it in his breastpocket the nearest receptacle to a man's heart permitted by modern raiment he ascended the valley in a mathematically direct line towards his distant home in the meadows . 
Thomasin Walks in a Green Place by the Roman Road Clym saw little of Thomasin for several days after this and when they met she was more silent than usual . 
At length he asked her what she was thinking of so intently . 
I am thoroughly perplexed , she said candidly . 
I cannot for my life think who it is that Diggory Venn is so much in love with . 
None of the girls at the Maypole were good enough for him , and yet she must have been there . 
Clym tried to imagine Venn's choice for a moment but ceasing to be interested in the question he went on again with his gardening . 
No clearing up of the mystery was granted her for some time . 
But one afternoon Thomasin was upstairs getting ready for a walk , when she had occasion to come to the landing and call Rachel . 
Rachel was a girl about thirteen , who carried the baby out for airings and she came upstairs at the call . 
Have you seen one of my last new gloves about the house , Rachel ? inquired Thomasin . 
It is the fellow to this one . 
Why don't you answer ? said her mistress . 
I think it is lost , ma'am . 
Lost ? Who lost it ? I have never worn them but once . 
Rachel appeared as one dreadfully troubled , and at last began to cry . 
Please , ma'am , on the day of the Maypole I had none to wear , and I seed yours on the table , and I thought I would borrow 'em . 
I did not mean to hurt 'em at all , but one of them got lost . 
Somebody gave me some money to buy another pair for you , but I have not been able to go anywhere to get 'em . 
Who's somebody ? Mr. Venn . 
Did he know it was my glove ? Yes . 
Thomasin was so surprised by the explanation that she quite forgot to lecture the girl , who glided silently away . 
Thomasin did not move further than to turn her eyes upon the grass plat where the Maypole had stood . 
The rider , who was Venn , waved his hat in the air and bowed gallantly . 
Diggory , give me my glove , said Thomasin , whose manner it was under any circumstances to plunge into the midst of a subject which engrossed her . 
Venn immediately dismounted , put his hand in his breastpocket , and handed the glove . 
It was very good of you to take care of it . 
It is very good of you to say so . 
I was quite glad to find you had it . 
Everybody gets so indifferent that I was surprised to know you thought of me . 
If you had remembered what I was once you wouldn't have been surprised . 
Ah , no , she said quickly . 
But men of your character are mostly so independent . 
What is my character ? he asked . 
I don't exactly know , said Thomasin simply , except it is to cover up your feelings under a practical manner , and only to show them when you are alone . 
Ah , how do you know that ? said Venn strategically . 
Because , said she , stopping to put the little girl , who had managed to get herself upside down , right end up again , because I do . 
You mustn't judge by folks in general , said Venn . 
Still I don't know much what feelings are nowadays . 
I have got so mixed up with business of one sort and t'other that my soft sentiments are gone off in vapour like . 
Yes , I am given up body and soul to the making of money . 
Money is all my dream . 
O Diggory , how wicked ! said Thomasin reproachfully , and looking at him in exact balance between taking his words seriously and judging them as said to tease her . 
Yes , 'tis rather a rum course , said Venn , in the bland tone of one comfortably resigned to sins he could no longer overcome . 
You , who used to be so nice ! Well , that's an argument I rather like , because what a man has once been he may be again . 
Except that it is rather harder now , Venn continued . 
Because you be richer than you were at that time . 
I have made it nearly all over to the baby , as it was my duty to do , except just enough to live on . 
I am rather glad of that , said Venn softly , and regarding her from the corner of his eye , for it makes it easier for us to be friendly . 
Thomasin blushed again , and , when a few more words had been said of a not unpleasing kind , Venn mounted his horse and rode on . 
This conversation had passed in a hollow of the heath near the old Roman road , a place much frequented by Thomasin . 
And it might have been observed that she did not in future walk that way less often from having met Venn there now . 
Whether or not Venn abstained from riding thither because he had met Thomasin in the same place might easily have been guessed from her proceedings about two months later in the same year . 
The Serious Discourse of Clym with His Cousin Throughout this period Yeobright had more or less pondered on his duty to his cousin Thomasin . 
But he felt this as an economist merely , and not as a lover . 
His passion for Eustacia had been a sort of conserve of his whole life , and he had nothing more of that supreme quality left to bestow . 
So far the obvious thing was not to entertain any idea of marriage with Thomasin , even to oblige her . 
But this was not all . 
Years ago there had been in his mother's mind a great fancy about Thomasin and himself . 
It had not positively amounted to a desire , but it had always been a favourite dream . 
That they should be man and wife in good time , if the happiness of neither were endangered thereby , was the fancy in question . 
Had only Yeobright's own future been involved he would have proposed to Thomasin with a ready heart . 
He had nothing to lose by carrying out a dead mother's hope . 
But he dreaded to contemplate Thomasin wedded to the mere corpse of a lover that he now felt himself to be . 
He had but three activities alive in him . 
It was difficult to believe that Thomasin would be cheered by a husband with such tendencies as these . 
Yet he resolved to ask her , and let her decide for herself . 
Thomasin was not in her room , and he found her in the front garden . 
I have long been wanting , Thomasin , he began , to say something about a matter that concerns both our futures . 
And you are going to say it now ? she remarked quickly , colouring as she met his gaze . 
Do stop a minute , Clym , and let me speak first , for oddly enough , I have been wanting to say something to you . 
By all means say on , Tamsie . 
I suppose nobody can overhear us ? she went on , casting her eyes around and lowering her voice . 
In fact , I am , of course , he said , altogether perplexed as to her drift . 
I am thinking of marrying , she then observed blandly . 
But I shall not marry unless you assure me that you approve of such a step . 
Why don't you speak ? I was taken rather by surprise . 
But , nevertheless , I am very glad to hear such news . 
I shall approve , of course , dear Tamsie . 
Who can it be ? I am quite at a loss to guess . 
No I am not 'tis the old doctor ! not that I mean to call him old , for he is not very old after all . 
Ah I noticed when he attended you last time ! No , no , she said hastily . 
Clym's face suddenly became grave . 
There , now , you don't like him , and I wish I hadn't mentioned him ! she exclaimed almost petulantly . 
And I shouldn't have done it , either , only he keeps on bothering me so till I don't know what to do ! Clym looked at the heath . 
I like Venn well enough , he answered at last . 
He is a very honest and at the same time astute man . 
He is clever too , as is proved by his having got you to favour him . 
But really , Thomasin , he is not quite Gentleman enough for me ? That is just what I feel . 
I am sorry now that I asked you , and I won't think any more of him . 
You might marry a professional man , or somebody of that sort , by going into the town to live and forming acquaintances there . 
I am not fit for town life so very rural and silly as I always have been . 
Do not you yourself notice my countrified ways ? Well , when I came home from Paris I did , a little but I don't now . 
That's because you have got countrified too . 
Neither could I , said Clym . 
Then how could you say that I should marry some town man ? I am sure , say what you will , that I must marry Diggory , if I marry at all . 
He has been kinder to me than anybody else , and has helped me in many ways that I don't know of ! Thomasin almost pouted now . 
Yes , he has , said Clym in a neutral tone . 
Well , I wish with all my heart that I could say , marry him . 
But I cannot forget what my mother thought on that matter , and it goes rather against me not to respect her opinion . 
There is too much reason why we should do the little we can to respect it now . 
Very well , then , sighed Thomasin . 
I will say no more . 
But you are not bound to obey my wishes . 
I merely say what I think . 
O no I don't want to be rebellious in that way , she said sadly . 
I had no business to think of him I ought to have thought of my family . 
What dreadfully bad impulses there are in me ! Her lips trembled , and she turned away to hide a tear . 
Clym , though vexed at what seemed her unaccountable taste , was in a measure relieved to find that at any rate the marriage question in relation to himself was shelved . 
Through several succeeding days he saw her at different times from the window of his room moping disconsolately about the garden . 
In short , Clym did not know what to do . 
When next they met she said abruptly , He is much more respectable now than he was then ! Who ? O yes Diggory Venn . 
Aunt only objected because he was a reddleman . 
Well , Thomasin , perhaps I don't know all the particulars of my mother's wish . 
So you had better use your own discretion . 
You will always feel that I slighted your mother's memory . 
No , I will not . 
I shall think you are convinced that , had she seen Diggory in his present position , she would have considered him a fitting husband for you . 
Now , that's my real feeling . 
Don't consult me any more , but do as you like , Thomasin . 
Have they ? said Clym abstractedly . 
Yes and he do contrive to stumble upon her whenever she walks out on fine days with the chiel . 
But , Mr. Yeobright , I can't help feeling that your cousin ought to have married you . 
'Tis a pity to make two chimleycorners where there need be only one . 
You could get her away from him now , 'tis my belief , if you were only to set about it . 
How can I have the conscience to marry after having driven two women to their deaths ? Don't think such a thing , Humphrey . 
After my experience I should consider it too much of a burlesque to go to church and take a wife . 
Well , we'll leave that out , said Yeobright . 
But anyhow God has set a mark upon me which wouldn't look well in a love making scene . 
I have two ideas in my head , and no others . 
I am going to keep a night school and I am going to turn preacher . 
What have you got to say to that , Humphrey ? I'll come and hear 'ee with all my heart . 
As Clym descended into the valley Thomasin came down by the other path , and met him at the gate . 
What do you think I have to tell you , Clym ? she said , looking archly over her shoulder at him . 
I can guess , he replied . 
Yes , you guess right . 
It is going to be after all . 
He thinks I may as well make up my mind , and I have got to think so too . 
It is to be on the twenty fifth of next month , if you don't object . 
Do what you think right , dear . 
I am only too glad that you see your way clear to happiness again . 
My sex owes you every amends for the treatment you received in days gone by . 
The writer may state here that the original conception of the story did not design a marriage between Thomasin and Venn . 
He was to have retained his isolated and weird character to the last , and to have disappeared mysteriously from the heath , nobody knowing whither Thomasin remaining a widow . 
But certain circumstances of serial publication led to a change of intent . 
Readers can therefore choose between the endings , and those with an austere artistic code can assume the more consistent conclusion to be the true one . 
It was chiefly a noise of feet , briskly crunching hither and thither over the sanded floor within . 
The scene within was not quite the customary one . 
Waxing a bed tick , souls ? said the newcomer . 
Yes , Sam , said Grandfer Cantle , as a man too busy to waste words . 
Shall I stretch this corner a shade tighter , Timothy ? Fairway replied , and the waxing went on with unabated vigour . 
'Tis going to be a good bed , by the look o't , continued Sam , after an interval of silence . 
Ah , to be sure and a valuable one , 'a b'lieve . 
Beds be dear to fokes that don't keep geese , bain't they , Mister Fairway ? said Christian , as to an omniscient being . 
Yes , said the furze dealer , standing up , giving his forehead a thorough mopping , and handing the beeswax to Humphrey , who succeeded at the rubbing forthwith . 
Not that this couple be in want of one , but 'twas well to show 'em a bit of friendliness at this great racketing vagary of their lives . 
I set up both my own daughters in one when they was married , and there have been feathers enough for another in the house the last twelve months . 
Now then , neighbours , I think we have laid on enough wax . 
Grandfer Cantle , you turn the tick the right way outwards , and then I'll begin to shake in the feathers . 
I never saw such a clumsy chap as you , Christian , said Grandfer Cantle severely . 
You might have been the son of a man that's never been outside Blooms End in his life for all the wit you have . 
Really all the soldiering and smartness in the world in the father seems to count for nothing in forming the nater of the son . 
As far as that chief Christian is concerned I might as well have stayed at home and seed nothing , like all the rest of ye here . 
I've made but a bruckle hit , I'm afeard . 
Never pitch yerself in such a low key as that , Christian you should try more , said Fairway . 
Yes , you should try more , echoed the Grandfer with insistence , as if he had been the first to make the suggestion . 
In common conscience every man ought either to marry or go for a soldier . 
'Tis a scandal to the nation to do neither one nor t'other . 
I did both , thank God ! Neither to raise men nor to lay 'em low that shows a poor do nothing spirit indeed . 
I never had the nerve to stand fire , faltered Christian . 
But as to marrying , I own I've asked here and there , though without much fruit from it . 
Yes , there's some house or other that might have had a man for a master such as he is that's now ruled by a woman alone . 
And you've your work cut out to do that , my son , said Grandfer Cantle smartly . 
Ay , seventy one , last Candlemasday . 
Gad , I'd sooner have it in guineas than in years ! And the old man sighed . 
Don't you be mournful , Grandfer , said Fairway . 
Empt some more feathers into the bed tick , and keep up yer heart . 
Though rather lean in the stalks you be a green leaved old man still . 
There's time enough left to ye yet to fill whole chronicles . 
Begad , I'll go to 'em , Timothy to the married pair ! said Granfer Cantle in an encouraged voice , and starting round briskly . 
I'll go to 'em tonight and sing a wedding song , hey ? 'Tis like me to do so , you know and they'd see it as such . 
My 'Down in Cupid's Gardens' was well liked in four still , I've got others as good , and even better . 
What do you say to my She cal' led to' her love' From the lat' tice a bove , 'O come in' from the fog gy fog' gy dew' . 
Now gie the bed a shake down . 
We've put in seventy pounds of best feathers , and I think that's as many as the tick will fairly hold . 
A bit and a drap wouldn't be amiss now , I reckon . 
Christian , maul down the victuals from corner cupboard if canst reach , man , and I'll draw a drap o' sommat to wet it with . 
Upon my soul I shall be chokt , said Fairway when , having extracted a feather from his mouth , he found several others floating on the mug as it was handed round . 
I've swallered several and one had a tolerable quill , said Sam placidly from the corner . 
Hullo what's that wheels I hear coming ? Grandfer Cantle exclaimed , jumping up and hastening to the door . 
Why , 'tis they back again I didn't expect 'em yet this half hour . 
He arose and followed the Grandfer , and the rest also went to the door . 
Venn , however , suggested that , as they were all coming to the house in the evening , this was hardly necessary . 
I wish I could be there without dashing your spirits , he said . 
But I might be too much like the skull at the banquet . 
Well , dear , apart from that , if you would excuse me , I should be glad . 
I know it seems unkind but , dear Thomasin , I fear I should not be happy in the company there , that's the truth of it . 
I shall always be coming to see you at your new home , you know , so that my absence now will not matter . 
Do whatever will be most comfortable to yourself . 
He had tested and weighed his convictions again and again , and saw no reason to alter them , though he had considerably lessened his plan . 
His eyesight , by long humouring in his native air , had grown stronger , but not sufficiently strong to warrant his attempting his extensive educational project . 
Yet he did not repine there was still more than enough of an unambitious sort to tax all his energies and occupy all his hours . 
Evening drew on , and sounds of life and movement in the lower part of the domicile became more pronounced , the gate in the palings clicking incessantly . 
The party was to be an early one , and all the guests were assembled long before it was dark . 
His steps were insensibly bent towards Mistover by the path that he had followed on that terrible morning when he learnt the strange news from Susan's boy . 
He did not turn aside to the cottage , but pushed on to an eminence , whence he could see over the whole quarter that had once been Eustacia's home . 
While he stood observing the darkening scene somebody came up . 
Clym , seeing him but dimly , would have let him pass silently , had not the pedestrian , who was Charley , recognized the young man and spoken to him . 
Charley , I have not seen you for a length of time , said Yeobright . 
Do you often walk this way ? No , the lad replied . 
I don't often come outside the bank . 
You were not at the Maypole . 
No , said Charley , in the same listless tone . 
I don't care for that sort of thing now . 
You rather liked Miss Eustacia , didn't you ? Yeobright gently asked . 
Eustacia had frequently told him of Charley's romantic attachment . 
Ah , I wish Yes ? I wish , Mr. Yeobright , you could give me something to keep that once belonged to her if you don't mind . 
I shall be very happy to . 
It will give me very great pleasure , Charley . 
Let me think what I have of hers that you would like . 
But come with me to the house , and I'll see . 
They walked towards Blooms End together . 
When they reached the front it was dark , and the shutters were closed , so that nothing of the interior could be seen . 
Come round this way , said Clym . 
My entrance is at the back for the present . 
The two went round and ascended the crooked stair in darkness till Clym's sitting room on the upper floor was reached , where he lit a candle , Charley entering gently behind . 
Yeobright searched his desk , and taking out a sheet of tissue paper unfolded from it two or three undulating locks of raven hair , which fell over the paper like black streams . 
From these he selected one , wrapped it up , and gave it to the lad , whose eyes had filled with tears . 
And amid the noise of merriment from below they descended . 
Their path to the front led them close to a little side window , whence the rays of candles streamed across the shrubs . 
Charley , what are they doing ? said Clym . 
My sight is weaker again tonight , and the glass of this window is not good . 
Charley wiped his own eyes , which were rather blurred with moisture , and stepped closer to the casement . 
Yes , I can hear the old man's voice , said Clym . 
So there's to be no dancing , I suppose . 
And is Thomasin in the room ? I see something moving in front of the candles that resembles her shape , I think . 
She is red in the face , and laughing at something Fairway has said to her . 
O my ! What noise was that ? said Clym . 
Mr. Venn is so tall that he knocked his head against the beam in gieing a skip as he passed under . 
Mrs. Venn has run up quite frightened and now she's put her hand to his head to feel if there's a lump . 
And now they be all laughing again as if nothing had happened . 
Do any of them seem to care about my not being there ? Clym asked . 
No , not a bit in the world . 
Now they are all holding up their glasses and drinking somebody's health . 
I wonder if it is mine ? No , 'tis Mr. and Mrs. Venn's , because he is making a hearty sort of speech . 
There now Mrs. Venn has got up , and is going away to put on her things , I think . 
Well , they haven't concerned themselves about me , and it is quite right they should not . 
It is all as it should be , and Thomasin at least is happy . 
We will not stay any longer now , as they will soon be coming out to go home . 
Now we leave you in absolute possession of your own house again , said Thomasin as she bent down to wish her cousin good night . 
It will be rather lonely for you , Clym , after the hubbub we have been making . 
O , that's no inconvenience , said Clym , smiling rather sadly . 
And then the party drove off and vanished in the night shades , and Yeobright entered the house . 
Yeobright sat down in one of the vacant chairs , and remained in thought a long time . 
His mother's old chair was opposite it had been sat in that evening by those who had scarcely remembered that it ever was hers . 
But to Clym she was almost a presence there , now as always . 
Whatever she was in other people's memories , in his she was the sublime saint whose radiance even his tenderness for Eustacia could not obscure . 
But his heart was heavy , that Mother had NOT crowned him in the day of his espousals and in the day of the gladness of his heart . 
And events had borne out the accuracy of her judgment , and proved the devotedness of her care . 
He should have heeded her for Eustacia's sake even more than for his own . 
It was all my fault , he whispered . 
But now it was fine warm weather , with only a summer breeze blowing , and early afternoon instead of dull twilight . 
Those who ascended to the immediate neighbourhood of the Barrow perceived that the erect form in the centre , piercing the sky , was not really alone . 
Round him upon the slopes of the Barrow a number of heathmen and women were reclining or sitting at their ease . 
They listened to the words of the man in their midst , who was preaching , while they abstractedly pulled heather , stripped ferns , or tossed pebbles down the slope . 
He stated that his discourses to people were to be sometimes secular , and sometimes religious , but never dogmatic and that his texts would be taken from all kinds of books . 
Then she said , I desire one small petition of thee I pray thee say me not nay . 
And the king said unto her , Ask , on , my mother for I will not say thee nay . 
He left alone creeds and systems of philosophy , finding enough and more than enough to occupy his tongue in the opinions and actions common to all good men . 
But everywhere he was kindly received , for the story of his life had become generally known . 
